---
title:  Further Thought
date:  13/12/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘Let Not Your Heart Be Troubled,’ ” pp. 662–680, in The Desire of Ages; “Additional Note on [John] Chapter 1,” The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 5, pp. 911–919.

In assessing who Jesus is, His opponents judged by human standards “ ‘according to the flesh’ ” (John 8:15, NKJV). This is probably even worse than judging “by mere appearances” (John 7:24, NIV). Here they resorted to the criteria of the flesh, of fallen humanity in a fallen world, without the compelling control of the Spirit (see John 3:3–7). They saw His “flesh,” as it were, but never contemplated the possibility that He could be the Word made flesh (John 1:14). To regard Christ by such limited criteria is to weigh Him from a worldly point of view (2 Cor. 5:16).

“The Comforter is called ‘the Spirit of truth.’ His work is to define and maintain the truth. He first dwells in the heart as the Spirit of truth, and thus He becomes the Comforter. There is comfort and peace in the truth, but no real peace or comfort can be found in falsehood. It is through false theories and traditions that Satan gains his power over the mind. By directing men to false standards, he misshapes the character. Through the Scriptures the Holy Spirit speaks to the mind, and impresses truth upon the heart. Thus He exposes error, and expels it from the soul. It is by the Spirit of truth, working through the word of God, that Christ subdues His chosen people to Himself.”—The Desire of Ages, p. 671.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Eternal life is to know God (John 17:3). What does it mean to know God, as opposed to merely knowing certain facts about Him, that is, that He is mighty or loving or a God of justice? If someone were to ask you, “Do you know God?” what would you say? How does Jesus fit in with your answer?`

`In practical, everyday terms, what is implied by Jesus’ words “Thy word is truth” (John 17:17)?`

`Jesus prayed, “ ‘I do not pray that You should take them out of the world, but that You should keep them from the evil one’ ” (John 17:15, NKJV). How do our own choices impact how well this prayer can be answered in our own lives?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

My Life Today, “Abundant Life in Christ,” p. 295;\
Sons and Daughters of God, “Oneness with Christ,” p. 295.