---
title: 'Crowned with Glory and Honor'
date: 09/08/2021
---

#### inTerpret

The human being has different characteristics. First it is a creative being. The creative process can be defined as that which is unknown becoming known or discovered. In other words, it is not the act of artistry in itself that is creative. Rather it is through the medium of artistry that colors, shapes, or sounds that were once random and unknown are then ordered and processed in a way that becomes known to the human individual and later to other audiences. This is a great attribute of God, who literally creates something out of nothing (also known as ex nihilo). While humanity cannot create anything out of nothing, it nevertheless has other creative abilities akin to its Maker, such as art and music, but also civilizations, biological reproduction, imaginations, and spiritual devotion.

Along those lines, the human being is also a spiritual being. Though social scientists assumed religion and all forms of spirituality would be extinct by the end of the twentieth century, we find the opposite today. Religion is more robust if not more forceful than at the beginning of the modern era. While atheistic ideologies have sought to disconnect humanity from the divine, it is impossible to disconnect humanity’s desire to communicate with, interact with, and cogitate on the supernatural. John 4:24 says, “God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth.” This desire to see what is beyond the seen is fundamental to the human identity. Worship then is a natural human need.

The Greek concept of logos was an impersonal force that provided order and logic to the ancient world. This sensibility was the basis for Greek thinking and an underlying operating system for the Greek worldview. The apostle John then shocks the Greek world in John 1 by saying that the person of God was this logos. That which is not understood can then become understood through the knowledge of God. Proverbs provides the Hebrew counterpart in its emphasis of the wisdom of God and the knowing of this wisdom. Human beings were made with logic, rational thinking, order, and reason in their programming. It is so much so that Jesus even says we are to love the Lord God with all of our mind in Matthew 22:37. Clearly humanity was created to be intelligent!

Deuteronomy 30:11–20 presents a passage that assumes that human beings are moral beings. God created humanity with the capacity for obedience, value, duty, freedom, goodness, and natural laws. How moral humanity can be is another story, but inherent in human thinking is that good and evil exist. Even in circles where morality is denied, it is difficult to have any meaningful discussion without a value system. Similarly, God also created humanity with a purpose (also known as teleology). Isaiah 43:7 states that humanity was created to reflect God’s glory. Placed a little lower than angels (Psalm 8:3–8), human beings were created with an intention, direction, and an objective. Given dominion over the earth, both men and women were to showcase God’s character, His authority, and His name to all other living creatures.

Last, as previously discussed, humans are relational beings with communication essential to its core. Underlying the commandments to love God and to love humanity is the presupposition that humanity has the relational ability to love at all.

If each sphere is merged, a composite picture of humanity emerges: a creative, spiritual, intelligent, moral, teleological, and relational being of the highest order, made in the image of God. One of these beings was to experience one of the highest pleasures with another being of the same order, accessing each one of these spheres at the same time. How profound of God! And how good of Him to grant this experience to humanity!

` `