---
title:  The Judgment Has Come
date:  21/05/2024
---

`Compare Daniel 7:9, 10 with Revelation 14:6, 7. What is the similarity between these two passages?`

The judgment is a prominent theme throughout the Bible. “For God will bring every work into judgment, including every secret thing, whether good or evil” (Eccles. 12:14, NKJV). Jesus pointed His hearers to a future time of judgment, when “ ‘every idle word men may speak, they will give account of it in the day of judgment’ ” (Matt. 12:36, NKJV). The apostle Paul adds, God will “bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts” (1 Cor. 4:5). The angelic messenger said to John, “The hour of His [God’s] judgment has come” (Rev. 14:7, NKJV).

`Read Revelation 22:10–12. When Jesus returns, what is the fate of all humanity? What clear declaration is made to John?`

Since Christ comes to give out His final rewards, there must be a judgment before that, to show who will receive what reward when He comes. When Christ returns, there is no second chance. Every human being has had sufficient information to make their final, irrevocable decision for or against Christ.

`Read Matthew 25:1–13. Why does Jesus relate so differently to these two different groups of believers?`

“When the work of investigation shall be ended, when the cases of those who in all ages have professed to be followers of Christ have been examined and decided, then, and not till then, probation will close, and the door of mercy will be shut. Thus in the one short sentence, ‘They that were ready went in with Him to the marriage: and the door was shut,’ we are carried down through the Saviour’s final ministration, to the time when the great work for man’s salvation shall be completed.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 428.

We need not fear the judgment. Through Christ, forgiveness is ours, freedom from guilt is ours, power to live godly lives is ours, and final victory is ours.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In the day of judgment men will see what they might have become through the power of Christ. . . . They knew the claims of God, but they refused to comply with the conditions laid down in His Word. . . .\
As plainly as in the light of the noonday sun, they all see what they might have been had they cooperated with God instead of opposing Him. The picture cannot be changed. Their cases are forever decided. They must perish with the one whose ways and works they followed.\
A flash of light will come to all lost souls. They will see clearly the mystery of godliness, which during their lifetime they despised and hated. And the fallen angels, endowed with higher intelligence than man, will realize what they have done in using their powers to lead human beings to choose deception and falsehood. All who have united with the deceiver, all who have learned his ways and practiced his deceptions, must perish with him. The Lord Jesus looks pityingly upon them and says, “Depart.”—The Upward Look, p. 203.

None need be deceived. The law of God is as sacred as His throne, and by it every man who cometh into the world is to be judged. There is no other standard by which to test character. “If they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them.” Now, shall the case be decided according to the Word of God, or shall man’s pretensions be credited? Says Christ, “By their fruits ye shall know them.”—Ellen G. White Comments, in The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 5, p. 1099.

God does not compel anyone to love Him and obey His law. He has manifested unutterable love toward man in the plan of redemption. He has poured out the treasures of His wisdom, and has given the most precious gift of heaven that we might be constrained to love Him, and come into harmony with His will. If we refuse such love, and will not have Him to rule over us, we are working our own ruin, and we shall sustain an eternal loss at last. . . .\
When the cases of all come in review before God, the question, What did they profess? is never asked, but, What have they done? Have they been doers of the word? Have they lived for themselves? or have they been exercised in works of benevolence, in deeds of kindness, in love, preferring others before themselves, and denying themselves that they might bless others?\
If the record shows that this has been their life, that their characters have been marked with tenderness, self-denial, and benevolence, they will receive the blessed assurance and benediction from Christ, “Well done,” “Come, ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.”—Counsels on Stewardship, pp. 127, 129.