---
title:  The Good News of the Most Holy Place
date:  22/05/2024
---

`Read Hebrews 4:14–16 and Hebrews 10:19–22. What assurance and divine invitation do these verses give to each one of us?`

Paul’s point here in Hebrews is “hold fast,” “come boldly,” “never give up,” focus your faith on Jesus, our great High Priest. In Jesus, we have all we need. By faith we may enter the heavenly sanctuary through the “new and living way” that Jesus has opened for us.

Looking into the court, we see blood on the horns of the brazen altar. In the Holy Place, we see blood on the golden horns of the altar of incense. We behold the sprinkled blood on the curtain before the mercy seat.

Jesus’ blood prepares the way at every step. This gives us hope since we can have reunion with God only if Jesus pardons us and blots out our sins. The mercy of God is infinite, but so is His justice. And justice cannot accept Christ’s sacrifice as atonement for our transgressions unless Jesus guarantees first to forgive our sins and second to blot them out.

`Read Revelation 11:19. In the context of the great controversy, why is this vision significant? How does it show the inseparable link between the law and the gospel?`

Here in the dazzling brightness and blazing glory of the presence of God, in the throne room of the universe, at the very base of God’s throne, we discover the law of God in the ark of the covenant. Here in the Most Holy Place, God’s justice and mercy are revealed. No earthly power can change God’s law because, among other reasons, it is enshrined in the ark of the covenant in heaven. Hebrews 8:10 says: “ ‘For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put My laws in their mind and write them on their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people’ ” (NKJV). Entering by faith into heaven’s sanctuary, we find pardon for our past sins and power to live an obedient life through Christ, who died for us and writes the law in our hearts. Jesus saves us to the “uttermost” (Heb. 7:25). Jesus saves us totally and completely—from the penalty of sin and from its power.

`Why is Jesus’ intercession such incredibly good news? As we stand before the law as the standard of righteousness, what hope would we have without the gospel?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We have one who is fully able, and always willing, to give us the very help that we require in the time of need. We have been invited to ask help, to come boldly to the throne of grace, to ask what we will, that it may be done unto us. And if the words of Christ abide in us, we are the elect of God, and will bring forth fruit in steady faith, cherishing the faith that works by love and purifies the soul from every moral defilement. “Much fruit” is the evidence that the words of Christ abide and work in the soul.—The Signs of the Times, February 20, 1896, par. 3.

Those who possess that faith that works by love and purifies the soul, will be sanctified body, soul, spirit, and intellect. There will be an effectual ministry when the servant of God makes it the business of his life to grasp the word of God with a determination that nothing can release, to hold fast to that word, to eat it, and impart it to others as the word of life.\
When Jesus is our abiding trust, our offering to God will be ourselves. Our dependence will be on the righteousness and intercession of Christ Jesus as our only hope. There is no confusion, no distrust, because by faith we see Jesus ordained of God for this very purpose, to make reconciliation for the sins of the world. He stands engaged by solemn covenant to mediate in behalf of all who come to God by Him, and to accomplish their salvation if they will only believe. The privilege is granted us to come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in every time of need.—Letter 153, 1897.

In Christ’s name our petitions ascend to the Father. He intercedes in our behalf, and the Father lays open all the treasures of His grace for our appropriation, to enjoy and communicate to others. Ask in My name, Christ says. I do not say that I will pray the Father for you, for the Father Himself loveth you, because you have loved Me. Make use of My name. This will give your prayers efficiency, and the Father will give you the riches of His grace. Wherefore ask and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full.\
What condescension! What a privilege is granted us! Christ is the connecting link between God and man. As we approach God through the virtue of Christ’s merits, we are clothed with His priestly vestments. He places us close by His side, encircling us with His human arm, while with His divine arm He grasps the throne of the Infinite. He puts His merits as sweet incense in a censer in our hands in order to encourage our petitions. He promises to hear and answer our supplications. Yes; Christ has become the medium of prayer between man and God. He also has become the medium of blessing between God and man. He has combined divinity and humanity.—In Heavenly Places, p. 77.