---
title:  Justice and Judgment for All
date:  02/09/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 16:29–34**

**Justice and Judgment for All**

All around the world, people are crying out for justice. This is particularly true of young people, who want to do something about the corruption they have just recently begun to see. They wonder why progress is so slow and why regression seems to happen so fast. Thankfully, Leviticus brings hope to every soul that dreams of a world in which equity and justice are valued.

Leviticus 16 details the Day of Atonement. On the tenth day of the seventh month (September or October in the Jewish calendar), Israel’s high priest entered the Most Holy Place of the sanctuary wearing the breastplate of judgment (Exod. 28:15). The Feast of Trumpets was on the first day of the same month. As the name suggests, trumpets would blast, preparing the people for God’s approaching presence and judgment. What a reminder to make sure our own lives are right with God if we seek to hold others accountable! God’s judgment is coming for each of us, too. Perhaps we can discern the trumpets of judgment and the need to get our own lives right with God and with those around us in the sound of the many cries for justice in the world today.

On the Day of Atonement, every Israelite confessed and forsook their sins and earnestly prayed that God would cover (atone for) them with the blood of the sacrifice. God promised them the same thing He promises us today (Lev. 16:34): that those who confess their sins in sincerity and repentance can be assured that they are forgiven and their sins atoned for.

We should humbly enter the work of bringing justice, mercy, equity, and compassion to our communities, knowing our shortcomings and remembering the mercy God extends to us through Christ. This kind of activism is both biblical and world changing if it comes from a place of humility, not from judgment or self-righteousness.

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 16:29–34 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Leviticus 16:29–31. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `