---
title:  The Advent of the Adventists
date:  03/09/2023
---

#### inGest

If there was one verse that inspired the Adventist movement, it would be Daniel 8:14: “For two thousand three hundred days; then the sanctuary shall be cleansed.” This verse led Adventists to a deeper understanding of the Day of Atonement, since it pointed clearly to Leviticus 16:30: “For on that day the priest shall make atonement for you, to cleanse you, that you may be clean from all your sins before the LORD.”

For many years Christians had been teaching that the earth was the sanctuary and that the earth would be cleansed with fire when Jesus returned. In line with this belief, they concluded that Daniel 8:14 was pointing to Jesus’ second coming and the end of the world. This idea became especially powerful when William Miller began preaching that all this would happen in 1844. His biblical evidence seemed overwhelming: Using Daniel 9:25–27, he showed that the 2,300 days found in Daniel 8:14 began in 457 B.C. when Artaxerxes commanded the restoration and rebuilding of Jerusalem. He then showed that a day symbolizes a year in biblical prophecy (Num. 14:34; Ezek. 4:4–6), so the 2,300 prophetic days were actually 2,300 literal years that began in 457 B.C. You can imagine the growing excitement as William Miller did the math in front of the thousands of people who came to hear him preach when he showed that the 2,300 years would be ending soon in the year 1844.

When Jesus did not return in the specified year, many either gave up their faith or rejected Daniel’s prophecy altogether. Fortunately, there was a group of people (who would later organize themselves into the Seventh-day Adventist Church) who found strong biblical evidence that the date was right, but the event was wrong! They saw that the start date, 457, had to be correct, as well as the end date, 1844, since they lined up perfectly with the predictions regarding the Messiah found in the same passages. Sixty-nine weeks (483 prophetic years) from 457 B.C. pointed to A.D. 27, the very year the Messiah was anointed with the Holy Spirit and baptized. Seventy weeks from 457 B.C. (490 prophetic years) pointed to the death of the Messiah in A.D. 31 in the middle of the prophetic week, and the end of that week pointed to the ultimate rejection of Christ and His disciples by the Jewish nation in A.D. 34.

So what actually took place in 1844? What sanctuary needed to be cleansed in Daniel 8:14? They didn’t have to wonder long. First, they discovered that the Bible never calls this earth a sanctuary. Next, they learned that this passage could not be talking about the Old Testament sanctuary in Jerusalem since the event in question took place in 1844. The Jewish temple service had long since ended in A.D. 70 when Jerusalem was destroyed, so this was not an option. As they studied the books of Hebrews and Revelation in connection with Daniel, they were impressed by the fact that there is a sanctuary in heaven. They found that the sanctuary discussed in Leviticus was a smaller version of the heavenly sanctuary where millions of angels minister to God the Father and God the Son (Dan. 7:10; Heb. 8:1–5; 9:23, 24; Rev. 11:19). Moses, Daniel, Paul, and the apostle John all confirm this idea!

This was an incredible discovery for the founders of the Adventist movement. They realized that Miller and the others had missed this crucial detail. Rather than the earth being the sanctuary that needed to be cleansed, the Bible was instead pointing to the sanctuary in heaven. Leviticus 16 suddenly became an extremely important chapter for Adventists. By studying this chapter, students of biblical prophecy could get a glimpse into Jesus’ work in the heavenly sanctuary—work that began in 1844.

**Memorize your favorite verse in Revelation 13. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How would you answer someone who asks why the sanctuary in heaven requires cleansing?`

`What is Jesus doing now in heaven?`