---
title:  From Time Setting to Sincere Seeking
date:  04/09/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Some accuse the Seventh-day Adventist Church of setting dates for Jesus’ second coming. This is not true; the Seventh-day Adventist Church was organized as an official denomination in 1863, many years after 1844. William Miller and many others from various denominations of the day were part of proclaiming that Jesus would return on October 22, 1844. It’s true that there were some who would become Seventh-day Adventists in the future who shared, preached, and taught that the second coming of Jesus would occur in 1844, but Seventh-day Adventists have always taught that “no one knows the day or hour” of Christ’s return (Matt. 24:36, NLT). However, Seventh-day Adventists do appreciate William Miller’s emphasis on Jesus’ second coming and the need to ready ourselves through repentance and faith in Christ every day. This passion, ignited by Miller and resounding through Scripture, no doubt inspired the word “Adventist” in our denomination’s name.

Another argument sometimes leveled at the church is that our founders’ focus on the sanctuary in heaven was contrived later in order to escape the embarrassment of the Great Disappointment. In other words, they came up with the idea to keep the concept that something special happened in 1844 alive rather than simply admitting they were wrong. However, as we have already discussed, when we humbly and prayerfully study Scripture, we are brought to the same inescapable conclusion that these early church pioneers came to: there is indeed a sanctuary in heaven, the cleansing of which began in 1844. Revelation 11:19 is clear that the temple in the book of Revelation is none other than God’s temple in heaven: “Then the temple of God was opened in heaven, and the ark of His covenant was seen in His temple.” The whole book of Hebrews is predicated on the understanding of the true sanctuary being in heaven where Jesus is “a Minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle which the Lord erected, and not man” (Heb. 8:2). Indeed, there is no purpose to the wilderness sanctuary, except that it teaches us something about the sanctuary in heaven. The wilderness sanctuary can only have real meaning when understood as a “copy and shadow of the heavenly things” (v. 5).

Now if the earthly sanctuary needed cleansed from defilement, is it true that the heavenly sanctuary also needs cleansing? Hebrews 9:23 affirms the need for cleansing in the heavenly sanctuary as well: “Therefore it was necessary that the copies of the things in the heavens should be purified with these, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.” Just as the earthly sanctuary needed cleansed from a trail of blood that was left in the sanctuary as evidence of sin, so the heavenly sanctuary has a record of sins that also needs cleansing. The blood sprinkled on the horns of the altar represented sins being written down in the records in heaven. “The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron. . . . on the horns of your altars” (Jeremiah 17:1).

The Day of Atonement was a reminder to them—and to us—that we must fully and from the heart turn from our sins. The blood of Jesus justifies us, but it never justifies sin (The Sanctuary Service, pp. 178, 179). Since we are living in the Day of Atonement and our eternal destinies are being decided right now, we need to get right and stay right with God through the blood of Jesus and His indwelling Spirit. This is a time to reflect solemnly upon our lives and to disentangle ourselves from all sin (Lev. 16:31).

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What does it mean to be living in the time of the end? What should our daily lives look like in light of the coming persecution and Jesus’ soon return? What’s keeping you from living that way?`