---
title:  Questions on the Cleansing
date:  06/09/2023
---

#### inVite

_Why did the sanctuary need to be cleansed?_ Previously, we learned that the people’s sins were transferred to the sanctuary throughout the year. The priests would either eat the meat of the sacrifice or take the blood of the sacrifice into the sanctuary and sprinkle it before the curtain leading into the Most Holy Place. Either way, the sins of the people and the record of their sins were carried by the priests into the tabernacle, making it a receptacle of sin (Lev. 10:16–18). The sanctuary therefore required the annual cleansing on the Day of Atonement to return it to its original holy and clean state.

_How was the sanctuary cleansed?_ On the Day of Atonement God provided a simple yet profound way to remove all sins from the sanctuary. First, the high priest set aside two goats (chosen by lots). The first one, or the “Lord’s goat,” was used to make a sacrifice for the sins of the people and cleanse the sanctuary. The priest carried its blood into the Most Holy Place and sprinkled it on the mercy seat, which was directly above the Ten Commandments, which the people had broken (Lev. 4:2; 1 John 3:4). This goat was not contaminated with sin. No confession was made over it, so its blood was for cleansing and removing sin from the sanctuary. In the eyes of God, who hovered in radiant glory above the mercy seat, the blood of this goat covered His people’s sins. Through this simple act performed by the high priest, who represented Jesus (Heb. 4:14–16), the people avoided God’s just judgment for their sins.

Next, the high priest sprinkled the blood of that first goat on the altar of incense located in the Holy Place and on the bronze altar of burnt offerings in the courtyard. This was all part of the cleansing process, and this soap for sin pointed to Christ’s blood (Heb. 9:22).

Finally, Aaron placed both hands upon the second goat, transferring all the sins of Israel upon it. Just like a garbage truck, this goat carried their sins away, far into the wilderness. This goat was not sacrificed and therefore was not a symbol of Jesus. It was instead a symbol of Satan, who will one day be left to roam earth by himself for 1,000 years before facing God’s judgment and complete extermination for all the suffering he has caused (Rev. 20). The Day of Atonement is very good news for everyone who longs for justice, but very bad news for those who think they can do evil and get away with it.

_What does all this teach us about Jesus and His work in the heavenly sanctuary?_ There are two things the Day of Atonement reveals about Jesus: First, He is right now ready and willing to grant atonement for our sins because of His great sacrifice on the cross 2,000 years ago. Christ’s nail-scarred hands are still open to all who will receive Him.

Second, the Day of Atonement reveals that we have a Savior who is praying for us (Rom. 8:34). When the high priest entered the Most Holy Place, he put incense in his censer and filled the room with a cloud of fragrance (Lev. 16:12). In Scripture, incense symbolizes prayer (Rev. 8:3). This simple practice assures us that Jesus prays for us. And who else would you rather have praying for you than Jesus Himself!

**Meditate on Leviticus 16:29–34 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`How is understanding of Leviticus and the Day of Atonement congealing your experience with Jesus’ first coming and His second coming?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`