---
title:  The Work of Investigation
date:  07/09/2023
---

#### inSight

“His intercession is that of a pierced and broken body, of a spotless life. The wounded hands, the pierced side, the marred feet, plead for fallen man, whose redemption was purchased at such infinite cost” (Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1911], p. 416).

“And as the typical cleansing of the earthly was accomplished by the removal of the sins by which it had been polluted, so the actual cleansing of the heavenly is to be accomplished by the removal, or blotting out, of the sins which are there recorded. But before this can be accomplished, there must be an examination of the books of record to determine who, through repentance of sin and faith in Christ, are entitled to the benefits of His atonement. The cleansing of the sanctuary therefore involves a work of investigation—a work of judgment. This work must be performed prior to the coming of Christ to redeem His people; for when He comes, His reward is with Him to give to every man according to his works. Revelation 22:12” (The Great Controversy, pp. 421, 422).

“When Christ, by virtue of His own blood, removes the sins of His people from the heavenly sanctuary at the close of His ministration, He will place them upon Satan, who, in the execution of the judgment, must bear the final penalty. The scapegoat was sent away into a land not inhabited, never to come again into the congregation of Israel. So will Satan be forever banished from the presence of God and His people, and he will be blotted from existence in the final destruction of sin and sinners” (The Great Controversy, p. 422).

“Through the grace of God and their own diligent effort they must be conquerors in the battle with evil. While the investigative judgment is going forward in heaven, while the sins of the penitent believers are being removed from the sanctuary, there is to be a special work of purification, of putting away of sin, among God’s people upon earth. . . .

“When this work shall have been accomplished, the followers of Christ will be ready for His appearing” (The Great Controversy, p. 425).

“If there ever was a time when serious reflection becomes every one who fears God, it is now, when personal piety is essential. The inquiry should be made, ‘What am I, and what is my work and mission in this time? On which side am I working--Christ’s side or the enemy’s side?’ Let every soul now humble himself or herself before God, for now we are surely living in the great Day of Atonement. . . . Are my sins confessed and am I repenting of them before God, that they may be blotted out? Do I esteem myself too highly? Am I willing to make any and every sacrifice for the excellency of the knowledge of Jesus Christ? Do I feel every moment I am not my own, but Christ’s property, that my service belongs to God, whose I am?” (Ellen G. White, Last Day Events [Nampa, Idaho: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1992], pp. 72, 73).

“We should ask ourselves, ‘For what are we living and working? And what will be the outcome of it all?’ ” (Last Day Events, p. 73).

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`

`After this week’s study of the passage, what are your personal takeaways?`

`What are your practical takeaways?`