---
title:  The Impact of Tithing
date:   17/02/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Mark 16:15; 1 Pet. 3:8, 9; 1 Cor. 9:14; Rom. 3:19-24.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Do you not know that those who minister the holy things eat of the things of the temple, and those who serve at the altar partake of the offerings of the altar? Even so the Lord has commanded that those who preach the gospel should live from the gospel” (1 Corinthians 9:13, 14, NKJV).

As we saw last week, tithing is an important expression of faith. It is one way to reveal, or test, the reality of our profession. “Examine yourselves as to whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Do you not know yourselves, that Jesus Christ is in you? - unless indeed you are disqualified” (2 Cor. 13:5, NKJV).

The first biblical reference to tithing is Abraham’s giving tithe to Melchizedek (Gen. 14:18-20, Heb. 7:4). The Levites also took the tithe for their services at the temple (2 Chron. 31:4-10). Today the tithe is for the support of the gospel. When rightly understood, it serves as a spiritual measurement of our relationship with God.

The impact, use, importance, and method of distribution in tithing are designed for our spiritual growth in supporting God’s work and providing the financial foundation for preaching the gospel. This is God’s plan and has been called the first step that a faithful steward takes.

This week we will continue our look at tithing: its distribution, what it means to others, and what impact it has on our spiritual lives.

*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, February 24.*
