---
title:  Encounter on Mars Hill
date:  17/12/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Genesis 1**

**Encounter on Mars Hill**

The book of Acts records a remarkable encounter of Paul with the intelligentsia of Greece. He went to the Areopagus to share the gospel, and “around him gathered poets, artists, and philosophers—the scholars and sages of Athens.” (Ellen G. White, _The Acts of the Apostles_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1911), 236.) Paul spoke to them of the Creator of heaven and earth, the brotherhood of all humanity, the futility of idolatry, the need to find the Unknown God, and the judgment to come (Acts 17:22–31). All listened attentively until Paul spoke of the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. At that point some mocked, and others said, “ ‘We will hear you again on this matter’ ” (Acts 17:32). Paul’s reasoning was not fruitless, because “some men joined him and believed, among them Dionysius the Areopagite, a woman named Damaris, and others with them” (Acts 17:34).

Why did many of the luminaries of Athens mock Paul? The answer is that the apostle believed in the resurrection of the body, while the philosophers believed in the immortality of the soul. The Greek philosophers who mocked could not understand how anyone in his right mind would want to have a material body after death. While Paul’s worldview spoke of a longing for the redemption of the body from the relentless ravages of time and matter in a sinful world, the philosophers on Mars Hill longed for their immortal souls to escape the relentless cycle of time and space. Is it just possible that the Christian world has embraced the theology of Socrates and not of Jesus?

#### inScribe

Read Genesis 1 from the translation of your choice. Write out Genesis 1:26–31. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `