---
title:  Matter and Time
date:  18/12/2022
---

#### inGest

The Bible tells us that God created time. He created the day, week, month, and year (Gen. 1:14, 31; 2:2, 3). God also created matter from which He formed the earth, the vegetation, the birds, the fish, the land animals, and the bodies of man and woman. When creation week ended, God declared that everything He had made was very good (Gen. 1:31). However, God placed a tree in the Garden and told the man that if he ate its fruit he would die (Gen. 2:9). With the inception of sin, in the passing of time, matter decayed, and the decay not only affected man but also the entire creation (Rom. 8:19–24). The decaying of matter with the passing of time is a post-sin phenomenon. Decay and death of material substance does not occur because time and matter are evil but rather because of sin (Rom. 5:12; 6:23).

The second law of thermodynamics and simple observation reveal an undeniable fact: in the passing of time, matter deteriorates. As time passes, the body wrinkles, gets old and sick, and eventually dies and decomposes. This was not God’s original plan—it is the direct and inevitable result of sin acting upon matter. So, the solution is not to get rid of time and matter but rather to get rid of sin!

The Bible does not depreciate the material body. In fact, it teaches that Jesus, the very substance of God, took upon Himself a real material body of human flesh (John 1:14; Rom. 8:3). Even the glorified resurrection body of Jesus was composed of real hands, feet, flesh, and bones (Luke 24:39). So serious was the coming of Jesus in the flesh that whoever taught the contrary had the spirit of the antichrist (1 John 4:3).

The Greek philosophers such as Plato and Socrates could conceive of great humans becoming gods after discarding the body and time. The idea of God taking on human flesh and dying on the cross, however, was not only scandalous but foolishness (1 Cor. 1:23). Who in their right mind would want to take on human flesh? To the Greeks and Romans, the ideal was for the soul to leave the body and thus escape the limitations of time and matter.

With the “immortality of the soul” mental block, the Greek philosophers found it virtually impossible to believe in the Christian hope of the resurrection of the body. For the philosophers, the great hope was not the redemption of the body but deliverance of the soul from the prison of the body. On the other hand, the Bible concept is the redemption of the body and all creation from the curse of sin to incorruption and immortality (Rom. 8:23; 1 Cor. 15:50–55; Phil. 3:20, 21).

The Bible teaches that there will be matter and time in the earth made new, so time and matter in themselves are not evil. There will be days, weeks, and months there (Rev. 22:1, 2; Isa. 66:22, 23). Because there will be no sin, however, matter will not decay over time.

` `