---
title:  Friend or Deadly Enemy?
date:  19/12/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Greek philosophers such as Socrates and Plato had no special revelation from God, but they were keen observers. They saw that with the passing of time, matter decays. They also saw that the material body displays the basest of evil passions. They concluded, therefore, that the body and time are inherently evil, and their goal was to dispose of the material body to escape the limitations of time and space. Thus they could get rid of their evil passions and the inevitable consequences of matter and time.

The Greek and Roman thinkers believed that humanity is composed of two separable entities—the corruptible, mortal, material body with all its vices, and the pure, immaterial soul that resided within the body. William Barclay wrote, “The evil of the body became one of the dominant ideas of Greek thought: Soma Sema, the body is a tomb, ran the Orphic jingle. . . . Epictetus can say that he is ashamed to have a body, that he is a ‘poor soul shackled to a corpse’. . . . Seneca speaks of ‘the detestable habitation’ of the body, and vain flesh in which the soul is imprisoned. . . . ‘Disdain the flesh,’ says Marcus Aurelius, ‘blood and bones and network, a twisted skein of nerves, veins, arteries.” (William Barclay, _Flesh and Spirit: An Examination of Galatians 5:19-23_ (Nashville: Abingdon, 1962), 10, 11.) Plato concluded that “no man can be a lover of wisdom and a lover of the body.” (Barclay, _Flesh and Spirit: An Examination of Galatians 5:19-23_, 11.) Socrates wrote that “the soul is contaminated by the body. If we are ever to know anything we must be freed from the body. The body is the fetter of the soul.” (Barclay, 11.) Philo of Alexandria exclaimed, “The body is a prison and a corpse.” (Oscar Cullmann, _Immortality of the Soul or Resurrection of the Dead?_ (Barclay, 11.)

Reformed scholar Oscar Cullmann wrote a treatise in which he drew a sharp contrast between how Jesus and the Greek philosopher Socrates viewed death (Oscar Cullmann, _Immortality of the Soul or Resurrection of the Dead?_ (London: Epworth, 1958), 19–27.). When Jesus gathered with His disciples in the Garden of Gethsemane, He faced death with trepidation, looking at it as a deadly enemy (1 Cor. 15:26). He shuddered in fear as He sweated great drops of blood (Luke 22:44). On the other hand, Socrates considered death a friend and encouraged his disciples to drink the hemlock in order to deliver their souls from the chains of the body and thus experience true freedom. The apostle Paul did not believe in death as the emancipation of the soul from the body but rather as the moment when “the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God” (Rom. 8:21). He knew “that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs . . . eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body” (Rom. 8:22, 23).

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How does your faith determine your reaction to death?`