---
title:  The Implications of Immortality
date:  21/12/2022
---

#### inVite

Belief in the immortality of the soul has several devastating implications that impact our relationship with Christ. First, the immortality of the soul doctrine glorifies the creature rather than the Creator (Rev. 14:7), who alone has immortality (1 Tim. 6:15, 16). Immortality, omniscience, omnipotence, and omnipresence belong exclusively to Deity. Furthermore, if the soul of man is immortal by nature, why would Jesus have to live and die to give us what we already possess (1 Cor. 15:3)? The doctrine of the immortality of the soul smears God and makes Him a liar (Gen. 2:16, 17) and Satan a truth teller (Gen. 3:4). God said, “You will surely die.” Satan said, “You will _not_ surely die.”

If our soul is what really matters, why would it be necessary to care for what we are going to discard at death anyway? The Bible teaches that we are to care for the physical body because it is the temple of the Holy Spirit (1 Cor. 6:19, 20; Rom. 12:1) and the health of our spiritual nature depends to a great degree on the condition of our physical nature. “The body is the only medium through which the mind and the soul are developed for the upbuilding of character. Hence, it is that the adversary of souls directs his temptations to the enfeebling and degrading of the physical powers. His success here means the surrender to evil of the whole being. The tendencies of our physical nature, unless under the dominion of a higher power, will surely work ruin and death.” (Ellen G. White, _Counsels on Diet and Foods_ (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1938), 73.)

The doctrine of the immortality of the soul leads many to lose a sense of urgency and expectancy for the second coming of Jesus. If our soul goes to heaven to be with Jesus at death, why should we be so excited about being with Him at His second coming (1 Thess. 4:15–17)?

Finally, the doctrine of the immortality of the soul opens wide the door of the church to the manifestations of spiritualism. If souls go to heaven at death, what would prevent them from coming back to earth to communicate with the living? We have been warned: “The last great delusion is soon to open before us. Antichrist is to perform his marvelous works in our sight. So closely will the counterfeit resemble the true that it will be impossible to distinguish between them except by the Holy Scriptures. By their testimony every statement and every miracle must be tested.” (Ellen G. White, _The Great Controversy_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1911), 593.)

`How does the biblical belief in the soul, body, and self impact your definition, motivation, and lifestyle of health?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`