---
title:  The Suffering Servant 
date:  28/02/2021
---

`Read Isaiah 50:4–10. What are these verses saying? What do these verses show you about Jesus?`

In Isaiah 49:7, we learned that people hate the servant of God. “ ‘He is now a slave to rulers [leaders]’ ” (Isaiah 49:7, ERV). But “ ‘kings will see you and stand up to honor you. Princes will see you and bow down to show you their respect’ ” (Isaiah 49:7, NIrV). The servant is also a gentle teacher. His words make weak people strong (Isaiah 50:4). People will hit the servant and beat him. He must suffer so that He can save humans.

This suffering is awful to us. But in the Near East during Bible times, honor is very important. If someone insults another person, then the person who got hurt will try to get even.

King David attacked and beat the country of Ammon (2 Samuel 10:1–12). Why? Because the king of Ammon “took David’s officers and shaved off one half of their beards. He cut off their clothes at the hips. Then he sent them away” (2 Samuel 10:4, ERV). But look at what happens when people hit the servant in Isaiah 50. They beat him. They pull out hairs from his beard. They spit at him. The servant is the King of kings (compare Isaiah 9:6, 7 and Isaiah 11:1–16). He is the Savior of the whole earth. He controls everything on heaven and earth. But He does not save Himself! This is very strange! People have a hard time believing it is true. When Jesus is on the cross, leaders laugh at Jesus and make fun of Him. They say, “ ‘If he is God’s Chosen One, the Christ, then let him save himself. He saved other people, didn’t he?’ ” (Luke 23:35, ICB). “ ‘If he is the king, he should come down now from the cross. Then we will believe in him’ ” (Matthew 27:42, ERV).

`Read Isaiah 50:4–10. Make a list of the important rules that you see in these verses. How can we show these rules in our own lives? How can you personally do better?`