---
title:  The Poem About The Suffering Servant 
date:  01/03/2021
---

Isaiah 52:13–53:12 is known as the poem about the “Suffering Servant.” This poem shows us God’s nearly impossible job: to save humans from sin.

Earlier, Isaiah told us about some things that will happen to the Savior. We learned about the special way that He will be born (Isaiah 7:14). We saw that the Savior will be a future son of David (Isaiah 9:6, 7). The Savior will bring Israel back to God and make them strong (Isaiah 11:1–16). The Savior will end the suffering of His people (Isaiah 42:1–7). The Savior will make things right and fair. The Savior must suffer before He gets glory (Isaiah 49:1–12; Isaiah 50:6–10). The poem about the Suffering Servant will show us just how much the Savior will suffer for our sins.

`Read again the verses in the paragraph above. What do they tell us about the Savior, Jesus? How do they help get us ready for what is coming in Isaiah 52 and Isaiah 53?`

Isaiah 52:13–53:1 gets us ready for the poem. These verses tell us that the Servant will be given glory. But first He will suffer so much. His suffering will change the way He looks. People who know Him will not believe it.

Isaiah 53:2, 3 starts with telling us where the Servant comes from. He does not look handsome or beautiful. He looks plain. Soon He will be made very sad. People will turn against Him. Isaiah 53:4–6 explains that the Servant is being punished for us. He accepts our punishment to heal us. Isaiah 53:7–9 tells us that the innocent Servant dies.

In Isaiah 53:10–12, the Servant gets His reward and honor. We learn that He dies because this is part of the plan of God to save sinners.

Compare this poem in Isaiah 52:13–53:12 to Philippians 2:5–11. In Philippians 2:5–11, we see that Jesus is God, but He becomes human. His heart is empty of all pride. He chooses to die on a cross. This is the worst way for a person to die at the time Jesus is on the earth. Then God gives Jesus much honor. That is why everyone should accept Jesus as Lord (compare Isaiah 49:7).

`Read Isaiah 52:13–53:12. Write down everything this poem says that Jesus has done for us. How important are these things to us?`