---
title:  Who Has Believed? 
date:  02/03/2021
---

In Isaiah 52:13, the Servant of God is given much honor and glory. But the next verse shows us that the Servant suffers so much that no one who sees His face knows who He is anymore. The New Testament talks about the pain that Jesus suffers. This pain changed the way He looked. Jesus is beaten. He is forced to wear a crown of thorns. He is nailed to a cross. The thing that changes the way He looks the most are our sins. God puts our sins on Jesus. Humans were not made by God to sin. Sin is not natural. That is why our sins made Jesus look no longer human.

Compare this story about Jesus with the story about Job. Job loses all his riches, honor, and power in an instant. Then he sits in ashes on the ground. He scrapes his sores with a piece from a broken pot (Job 1, 2). Job changes so much. His friends do not know who he is when they first see him (Job 2:12). The question is: Why does Job suffer? Why must the Savior suffer? Job does nothing wrong. Jesus does not do anything wrong. Both men are innocent. So, why do they suffer?

`Read again Isaiah 52:13–53:12. Write down all the examples from these verses that talk about the innocent person suffering for the people who are guilty. What does this idea teach us?`

Look at the questions in Isaiah 53:1. We are asked to believe what no one thinks is possible. But they also show us that the Lord shows His strength to those people who believe His message (compare with Isaiah 52:10). Do you want to be saved by God? Then believe His message.

`Look carefully at Isaiah 53:6. What is the message for us in this verse? What is this verse saying to you personally? You may have sinned or failed to do the right thing in the past. How does this verse give you hope?`