---
title:  The Hard To Save 
date:  03/03/2021
---

Some people do not think the Suffering Servant is anyone special. They hate Him (Isaiah 53:2, 3). Isaiah shows us why we should love Him. The Servant is the Child born to us. He is the Prince of Peace. Yes, other people hate Him. But we know who He really is.

Someone said, “We have met the enemy. The enemy is us.” The Servant is not the first person who is hated. He is not the first person to suffer. King David was hated. He suffered when he ran from his son Absalom (2 Samuel 15:30). But the Servant does not do anything to cause His own suffering. His suffering does not come from His own sin. The Servant does not suffer for one person. “ ‘The LORD put all our guilt on him’ ” (Isaiah 53:6, ERV). Why did the Servant choose to suffer? Because He loves us. He chose to save the ones who should be destroyed!

But some people do not understand the love of God or the reason for His suffering. They think the Servant suffers because “God was punishing him” (Isaiah 53:4, ICB). In the same way, the friends of Job thought that Job did something evil to cause his own suffering. The followers of Jesus thought the same thing about a blind man. That is why they ask Jesus, “ ‘Was this man born blind because he sinned? Or did his parents sin?’ ” (John 9:2, NIrV). People who saw Jesus on the cross thought the worst about Him. They remembered the words of Moses: “the one who hangs on a tree is cursed by God” (Deuteronomy 21:23, ERV; compare Numbers 25:4).

Everything that happens to Jesus is part of the plan of God to save sinners. “The law says we are under a curse for not always obeying it. But Christ [Jesus] took away that curse. He changed places with us and put himself under that curse” (Galatians 3:13, ERV). “Christ had no sin, but God made him become sin so that in Christ we could be right with God” (2 Corinthians 5:21, ERV).

“Look at the price God paid for us! Look at the cross. Look at the One who hangs on it. Look at His hands. They are pierced with nails. Look at His feet. They are nailed to the tree. Jesus took our sin in His own body. His suffering and pain are the price God paid to save us.”—Ellen G. White, God’s Amazing Grace, page 172, adapted.

`Look at how much it cost God to save us? What does that tell us about His love?`