---
title:  An Offering That Forever Changes Lives 
date:  04/03/2021
---

`How do you understand this verse: the Servant gave himself “ ‘as an offering for sin’ ” (Isaiah 53:10, ERV)?`

In the Hebrew language, the word “offering” shows us an offering made for sin (Leviticus 5:14–6:7; Leviticus 7:1–7). A sinner made this offering when he did something wrong to another person (Leviticus 6:2, 3). Isaiah talks about these sins (Isaiah 1–3; Isaiah 10:1, 2; Isaiah 58). Also, the sinner must give back what he stole and some extra. He needed to do this before he made his offering to God and asked for forgiveness (Leviticus 6:4–7; compare Matthew 5:23, 24). What if someone makes the wrong use of something that belongs to God? Then that person must give an offering back to God (Leviticus 5:16).

This information helps us to understand Isaiah 40:2. God comforts His people in Babylon. He tells them they have paid enough for their sins. But God needs an offering. Isaiah 53 shows us what the offering will be: the Servant of God, and not an animal. The Servant is led, the same as a sheep to be killed (Isaiah 53:7). He is killed for the people who have turned away from God (Isaiah 53:6).

The Servant “ ‘was cut off from this life’ ” (Isaiah 53:8, NIrV; compare Daniel 9:26). But He wakes up from the dead. God honors Him. The Servant lives again to see the people He saved (Isaiah 53:10–12).

`Look up the verses below. How does each one show the same message as Isaiah 53?`

`Psalm 32:1, 2`

`Romans 5:8`

`Galatians 2:16`

`Philippians 3:9`

`Hebrews 2:9`

`1 Peter 2:24`

`What is the good news of Isaiah 52:13–53:12 all about?`