---
title:  Further Thought
date:  05/03/2021
---

“Jesus took our sins in His own body on the cross. . . . Sin must be very awful if no human can make an offering for it. The curse for sin must be awful, too, if only God can put an end to it. The cross of Jesus shows every person that the punishment for sin is death.”—Ellen G. White, Our High Calling, page 44, adapted.

“Jesus gave glory and honor to the law of God when He died on the cross. This law is the law of the government of God in heaven. Jesus is the only Son of God. He took the guilt on Himself for the sins of all humans. Everything we need is found only in Jesus: in His coming to this earth as a human and dying for us. He suffered for us because God gave Him strength. He did not have any sin. He was loyal to God in every way. Jesus won the war against sin for us. He took our punishment. He gave us the gift of everlasting life. He did all this when He died. His death gave glory and honor to the law of God.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 302, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Isaiah 53:7–9 shows us the death of the Servant. Then it shows us that His body is laid in a grave above the ground that is carved from stone. How many things do you see in these verses happened to Jesus at the end of His life? (For the answer, read Matthew 26:57–27:60; Mark 14:53–15:46; Luke 22:54–23:53; John 18:12–19:42.)`

`Look at the second quotation above from Ellen G. White. She talks about how Jesus gave honor to the law of God when He died. What does she mean by that? How does the death of Jesus show that the law of God continues forever?`

**Summary**: Isaiah tells us about the Servant of God. We learn about His being born. We learn about who He is and what He will do. Then Isaiah shows us an awful experience that will happen to the Servant. This awful experience will give us hope. The servant chooses to die for our sins. He does this to save and heal sinners.