---
title:  Loving People as Jesus Loved Them
date:   22/08/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
2 Corinthians 1:3–14; 2 Corinthians 7:5–13; 2 Corinthians 2:12, 13.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “When I wrote that letter, I was very sad and upset. I cried a lot. I did not want to make you sad. Instead [but], I wanted you to know that I love you very much” (2 Corinthians 2:4, EASY).

Paul didn’t always have an easy life. He spent time in jail. He was often in danger. He wrote: “Five different times, the Jewish leaders punished me with whips. Each time they hit me 39 times. Three times the Romans punished [beat]me with sticks. People threw stones at me to kill me once [one time]. Three times I have been on ships that broke in the sea. Once I was in the sea for a night and a day. I have travelled on many journeys. I have been in danger from rivers and also from robbers. I have been in danger from my own people and also from Gentiles [non-Jews]. I have been in danger in cities and also in the wilderness [desert]. . . . I have been in danger from false believers. I have worked very hard, and I have been in pain. Many times I have not slept [can’t sleep]. I have often been hungry and thirsty. Many times I have had no food. I have often been cold and without enough clothes. . . . But also, every day I have trouble in my mind. I worry about the believers in all the churches” (2 Corinthians 11:24–28, EASY). Paul’s letters to the Corinthians show us his deep love for them. He never stopped loving them. Paul learned from Jesus how to love the churches (2 Corinthians 5:14; 1 Corinthians 11:1).