---
title:  Thanksgiving
date:   23/08/2026
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 1:3–7. What is Paul thankful for in these verses?`

Paul is thankful for the hope and help that God gives to people who are suffering. In these verses, Paul says that God “helps us every time we have trouble” (2 Corinthians 1:3, WE; also read verse 4).

When God helps us, we feel hope. We must share this hope with other people (2 Corinthians 1:4, 5). When God helps us, we can help other people who are suffering. We understand their suffering better because we suffered. We know how to help them better because God helped us.

Paul could help other people who were suffering because God helped him when he suffered. “Our hope for you is strong. If you have the same trouble we have had, then you will also have the same comfort [hope] and help we have” (2 Corinthians 1:6, WE). In these verses, Paul shows us a picture of God’s amazing love.

`What is Paul thankful for in 2 Corinthians 1:8–11?`

Paul talks about his terrible troubles. His suffering was so bad that he and his traveling companions thought they were going to die (2 Corinthians 1:8). But God saved them. Then things got better for Paul (2 Corinthians 1:10). Before, they were afraid they were going to die. But now, they are filled with hope that God will save them again (2 Corinthians 1:10).

What important lesson does Paul’s story teach us? When God saves us in the past, we have hope that He will save us in the future. God uses suffering and hard times to teach us to trust Him. Hard times help us to grow. They can help us to give our hearts to God. Paul’s thankful heart shows another important lesson. We must pray for other people. We also must show God that we are thankful to Him for saving us from our troubles (2 Corinthians 1:11).

`We all will suffer hard times in this life. Think of a time in the past when you suffered hard times. What helped you or gave you hope at that time?`