---
title:  Honest and Good With Everyone
date:   24/08/2026
---

Yesterday, we read about Paul’s love for the Corinthians. Paul showed his love in the help and hope he gave them during their suffering. God gave Paul hope during hard times. So, Paul knew how to give help and hope to other people who were suffering (2 Corinthians 1:1–11). Today, we will learn about other ways Paul and his friends showed the Corinthians love.

`Read 2 Corinthians 1:12–14, along with 2 Corinthians 2:17 and 2 Corinthians 4:2. How does Paul’s honest behavior show his love for the Corinthians?`

In 2 Corinthians 1:12–14, Paul introduces an idea that he will talk about for the rest of his letter. Some people in the church doubted that Paul was honest. They questioned Paul’s leadership. Some church members in Corinth thought that Paul had trouble making decisions. They worried that he changed his mind too much. So, some of the Corinthians didn’t think Paul made a very good leader. In answer to these fears, Paul says that his behavior was always honest and good with everyone.

Let’s look more closely at these two words: “honest” and “good” (2 Corinthians 1:12, EASY). The word written as ‘honest’ comes from the Greek word _‘haplotēs_.’ Paul uses this word to show that his behavior and his words were always honest and true. In short, _‘haplotēs’_ helps us understand that Paul’s heart was filled with love for the Corinthians. The word “good” comes from the Greek word _‘eilikrineia_.’ This word also helps us to understand that Paul had no evil feelings in his heart for the Corinthians.

The Corinthians should trust the honesty in Paul’s heart. In 1 Corinthians 1:12, Paul says that his “honest” and “good” behavior and feelings for the Corinthians came from God. Sad to say, some people didn’t understand Paul’s first letter to the church (read 2 Corinthians 1:13, 14). Paul hopes they will understand his words and his behavior on the day when Jesus comes back (2 Corinthians 1:14).

`Do people sometimes think the worst of your good behavior and honest words? What does your answer tell you about why we must be careful how we judge the words and behavior of other people?`