---
title:  Changing Plans For Love
date:   25/08/2026
---

Yesterday, we learned that some church members at Corinth doubted Paul’s love. Today, we will look at why Paul changed his travel plans (2 Corinthians 1:15–2:4).

`What was Paul’s first travel plan? Read 1 Corinthians 16:5–7 for the answer.`

In 1 Corinthians 16:5, 6, we learn that Paul planned to pass through Macedonia on his way back to Corinth. Maybe he would stay in Corinth for the winter. From Corinth, Paul would travel to Judea with the offering he collected for the poor in Jerusalem. But then Paul’s plans changed. He got a bad report from Timothy about Corinth (1 Corinthians 4:17; 1 Corinthians 16:10; 2 Corinthians 1:1).

Paul planned to hurry from Ephesus to Corinth to solve the problems Timothy told him about. Paul’s new plan was to travel from Ephesus to Corinth, and then from Corinth to Macedonia. Then Paul planned to travel back to Corinth. From there he would go to Judea (2 Corinthians 1:15, 16). Paul went from Ephesus to Corinth. But then Paul went back to Ephesus. His plans changed. He didn’t go back to Corinth as planned. At least, not right away. That’s because Paul’s latest visit didn’t go so well. So, Paul went back to Ephesus and wrote to the Corinthians. Paul thought that sending a letter was better than making things worse with another personal visit (2 Corinthians 2:1, 3).

So, the Corinthians felt they couldn’t depend on Paul. They felt that he didn’t love them enough (2 Corinthians 1:17). In answer, Paul asked the Corinthians to think about Jesus and the Good News. Paul would keep his promises to the Corinthians, just as God kept His promises to them because of Jesus (2 Corinthians 1:18–22). That’s why Paul says, “Jesus says yes to all of God’s many promises” (2 Corinthians 1:20, NLV). Paul’s answer shows us that Jesus “is not someone who changes his message between ‘Yes’ and ‘No’. He always says ‘Yes,’ and he does what he says” (2 Corinthians 1:19, EASY).

Paul loved the Corinthians (2 Corinthians 2:4). That’s why he waited to visit them again. Another visit right away would cause the Corinthians more pain, and not joy (2 Corinthians 1:24; 2 Corinthians 2:3). Paul’s experience helps us understand that we can easily believe the worst about other people.