---
title:  Forgiveness and Love
date:   26/08/2026
---

As we saw yesterday, Paul chose not to visit the Corinthians a second time. After Paul went back to Ephesus, he sent the Corinthians a letter filled with strong, painful words. The letter made the Corinthians “sad . . . for a short time” (2 Corinthians 7:8, EASY; also read 2 Corinthians 2:3, 4; 2 Corinthians 7:12).

`What happened when Paul sent the strong letter? What did the Corinthians do? How did Paul answer? Read 2 Corinthians 7:5–13 for the answers.`

Paul and Titus met later in Macedonia. There, Paul heard from Titus the excellent news that his strong words caused good changes in the church. In the past, some members at Corinth were against Paul. But now the church was on Paul’s side. This news filled Paul’s heart with joy. For sure, our leaders need the support of us church members. Our support makes their work so much easier.

`Read 2 Corinthians 2:5–11. What important idea do we read about in these verses?`

These verses are about church punishment. Bible thinkers don’t agree who is being punished. Was it the man in 1 Corinthians 5:1–5 who had sex with his stepmother? Or was it someone who was upset with Paul for changing his travel plans? We don’t know for sure. Anyway, 1 Corinthians 5:1–5 teaches the church what to do when a member sins.

1 Corinthians 5:1–5 teaches us that punishment helps the sinner come back to God (2 Corinthians 2:6–8, 10). Love and forgiveness are an important part of church punishment. Punishment may be painful. But it is also necessary. Some churches don’t punish members when they do terrible things or public sins. On the other hand, some churches punish, but they are unforgiving and mean. Church leaders must be loving and kind when they punish sin. Paul loved the church so much (2 Corinthians 2:4)! That’s why he tells the church to show love to the person they punish (2 Corinthians 2:8).

`God loved the church, and so did Paul. So, the church in Corinth could show love to the person who did wrong (2 Corinthians 2:8). What does this idea teach us about love?`