---
title:  Winning With Jesus
date:   27/08/2026
---

`Where did Paul go after he wrote his painful letter? What did Paul do when he arrived there? Read 2 Corinthians 2:12, 13 for the answer.`

Paul felt worried while he waited for Titus (2 Corinthians 7:5, 6). Even so, Paul didn’t stop talking about Jesus (2 Corinthians 2:12). Paul loved Jesus so much! At that time, he didn’t know how the Corinthians felt about his letter. So, Paul wanted to learn from Titus what the Corinthians thought.

Paul’s work at Troas was a big success. “But Paul couldn’t stay there long. He needed to take care of all the other churches. He worried most about the church at Corinth. Paul hoped to meet Titus at Troas to learn how the Corinthians felt about his letter. But Paul didn’t get the chance. Paul wrote these words about his experience at Troas: ‘But I had no peace because I did not find my ­brother Titus there’ (2 Corinthians 2:13, ICB). So, Paul left Troas and crossed over to Macedonia.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 323, adapted.

`How did Paul feel when he met Titus in Macedonia? How did he feel when he heard Titus’s good news about the Corinthians? Read 2 Corinthians 2:14–17 for the answer.`

Paul is filled with joy! He says, “We thank God for the power Christ [the Savior] has given us. He leads us and makes us win in everything” (2 Corinthians 2:14, NLV). What a beautiful verse! When our hearts are filled with Jesus, then “God spreads [sends] the knowledge of [the Good News about] Christ everywhere like [the same as] perfume” (2 Corinthians 2:14, NIrV).

Paul is happy in Jesus because the painful letter helped the Corinthians (2 Corinthians 7:5–9). Paul’s letter is a success. Meanwhile, in 2 Corinthians 2:17, Paul says again that he is an honest leader. Jesus Himself sent Paul to do his work (2 Corinthians 2:17; 2 Corinthians 1:12). A false leader is selfish. But an honest leader preaches Bible truth because he loves Jesus with his whole heart.

`What helps you to do everything you do for Jesus?`