---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   28/08/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Message Heeded,” pages 323–334, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“People who suffered much often bring the most hope to other people. Suffering teaches them important lessons. Their lives are better because of their painful experiences. So, now they know how to fill other hearts with happiness wherever they go. These people don’t stop trusting in God when troubles came. They hold on tight to Jesus and His love. God’s love protects them. Now these same people are living proof that God loves and cares for us.”—Ellen G. White, God’s Amazing Grace, page 122, adapted.

“Paul knew that he must punish sin in the church. But Paul didn’t lose his self-control. Paul explained the reason for his actions. He worked hard to make sure that the church understood that he was the friend to the person who did wrong! Paul made the church understand that it hurt him to cause them pain. Paul helped them to know that he cared about what happened to them.”—Ellen
G. White, in The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 6, page 1094, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`In 2 Corinthians 2:1–14, Paul says that he is an honest leader for Jesus. Why is honesty so important in leadership?`

`Paul changed his travel plan. What does this change tell us about why we must be open to making changes when needed?`

`At times, Paul felt worried and upset during his work for God. He suffered and felt pain because of the decisions he needed to make. Paul was human. His experience helps us remember that our church leaders are human, too. They suffer and feel pain, the same as other people. What can we do, as church members, to make their jobs easier?`

`Paul talks about his worries (2 Corinthians 2:13) right before he talks about his success in Jesus (2 Corinthians 2:14). How can he talk about these two different things at the same time? How can we?`