---
title:  Paying What You Owe
date:   28/01/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Deuteronomy 28:1, 2, 12; 1 Timothy 6:6–9; Matthew 6:24; 1 John 2:15; Proverbs 22:7; Proverbs 6:1–5; Proverbs 17:18; Deuteronomy 15:1–5.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “The rich rule [have control] over the poor. The one who borrows is a slave to the one who lends” (Proverbs 22:7, ERV).

What is debt? Debt is all the money you owe. Someone said that debt also is “spending money you don’t have now but that you expect to earn in the future.” Today, most people owe a lot of money. Owing money is just a normal part of life. But as Christians, we should not owe money to anyone. The Bible talks about owing money at least 26 times. All those verses talk against our owing money. The Bible doesn’t say that our borrowing money is a sin. But the Bible does talk about the bad things that often happen when we do borrow. Paul gives us this advice about money: “Pay everyone, then, what you owe him. If you owe any kind [type] of tax, pay it. Show respect and honor to them all. Do not owe people anything. But you will always owe love to each other. The person who loves others [other people] has obeyed all the law” (Romans 13:7, 8, ICB).

Owing money is never a good thing. So, why do so many people and governments owe so much money? Every country always has a group of citizens who owe money. But today, more and more people owe money.

This week, we will look at why people owe money and how to solve the problem. You may not owe any money. But you can share this information with people who may need help paying back their debt.