---
title:  The Problems With Owing Money
date:   29/01/2023
---

`Read the important rules about money in Deuteronomy 28:1, 2, 12. What is God’s plan for His children who owe money? How can His children follow this plan? How can the important rules in Deuteronomy 28 help us solve our money problems, too?`

Studies show that people have three reasons for money problems. The reasons are: (1) people don’t know how to manage money, (2) they are selfish, or (3) they lost money because of a disaster that happened in their lives. Let’s look at each of these reasons.

_1. No education._ Maybe you went to school. You may have a good education. But that doesn’t mean you learned anything about how to manage your money.You also may not know what the Bible teaches about managing money. But there is hope for each one of us! Our lesson this week will give us some simple Bible rules to help us manage our money better.

_2. A selfish heart._ Some people spend more than they should. Why? They want too much. Or they see ads on TV for things that they don’t need. They can’t afford to buy these things. But they aren’t willing to live in cheaper homes, drive cheaper cars, or wear the things they can afford. Many people don’t give God any offerings. They feel they are too poor. So, they don’t have the blessings that God promises (read Malachi 3:10, 11; Matthew 6:33). There is hope for this group, too. But first, they must ask God to change their hearts. They must learn to be happy with what they have.

_3. Misfortune._ Sometimes people get sick, but they don’t have any health insurance to pay for their bills. Other people are married to someone who spends all their money and does not pay the bills. Other people may lose their homes in natural disasters. Or they are born poor. There is hope for these people, too. Christian friends can help give them good advice about money. They can go to school to get a good job. Then they can work hard. God will bless their efforts.

Maybe we owe money because of bad decisions we made. Whatever the reason for our money problems, we have hope. We can pay back the money we owe. But first, we will need to make some changes in how we spend money.

`Read 1 Timothy 6:6–9. What is Paul saying in these verses? Why do we all need to follow this advice?`