---
title:  Some Good Advice About Money
date:   30/01/2023
---

There’s nothing wrong with our working hard to earn the money we need to live. There’s nothing wrong with having riches. But we must not worship money. God promises to help us obey Him and to do what He wants us to do. We need to remember this precious promise. If we don’t, we may be in danger of loving money and riches more than we love God.

`Read Matthew 6:24 and 1 John 2:15. What important idea do both verses teach us?`

Sad to say, people love things so much that they buy more than they can afford. Then they owe a lot of money. Satan tries to get us to spend more than we can afford. God wants to help us pay the money we owe. So, God gives us helpful advice in the Bible and in the writings of Ellen G. White. This advice will help us not to owe money.

`Read Psalm 50:14, 15. What does it mean to “give God Most High [the One who is above all gods] what you have promised” (Psalm 50:14, ICB)? What should we feel in our hearts when we do this?`

As church members, we praise and thank God. We praise Him for making us and saving us. When we get baptized, we are asked 13 questions. Question number 9 says, “Do you believe in the Seventh-day Adventist Church? Do you wish to worship God and support His church with your gifts of money?” As Seventh-day Adventists, we all said yes to these questions. So, Psalm 50:14, 15 tells us what God wants us to do. When we give God our thanks and our offerings, He promises to honor us and to help us when we are in trouble.

`Do you say no to sin? What do your choices tell you about how strong you are? How is working hard to earn money different from worshiping money or riches? Explain your answer.`