---
title:  How To Pay Back All The Money You Owe
date:   31/01/2023
---

`Read Proverbs 22:7. How are we the same as “slaves” to the ones we owe money to?`

Owing money is the same as slavery. How do we escape? Below we will learn about a plan that will make us free. If you owe money, the plan will help you to start paying off what you owe. The plan is simple and has three rules.

Before we learn about the three rules, we must give our lives fully to God. We must give God all the gifts of money we owe Him. Then He will make us wise and bless us. God wants to bless His obedient children so much!

_Rule number 1._ Stop borrowing money. Don’t spend money that you don’t have. Pay off credit cards as soon as you get the bill. If you stop borrowing money, you will not owe any more money than you already do now.

_Rule number 2._ Make a promise to God that you will pay off what you owe as soon as possible. When God blesses you with extra money, use that money to reduce the amount of money you owe. Don’t buy more stuff. This rule is the most important part of the plan. When most people get extra money, they spend it. Don’t! Use that extra money to help you pay what you owe.

_Rule number 3._ Make a list of all the money you owe, from the biggest amount to the smallest amount. For most families, their home loan is at the top of the list. A credit card bill is often at the bottom of the list. Start by paying just the amount that you owe on all your bills each month. Next, when you can afford to, double the amount you pay on the smallest bill you owe at the bottom of your list. You will be happy and surprised to see how fast you can get rid of the smallest bill you owe. When you pay it off, add that extra money to the basic amount you must pay on the next bill at the bottom of your list. Continue to follow this plan until you work your way up to the top of the list and pay everything off. As you pay off your smaller loans or bills that you owe, you will free up more money. Then you can use this money to pay off the other loans or credit cards.

God doesn’t want us to owe money. Many families who follow these three simple rules become free from owing money. God blesses them in ways that they didn’t expect. You can do it, too! Put God first in your life. He’ll give you His wisdom to manage what He has given to you.