---
title:  Money Dangers
date:   01/02/2023
---

God doesn’t want His children to become responsible for paying other people’s loans. We can read God’s warning about this important rule in the book of Proverbs.

`Read Proverbs 6:1–5; Proverbs 17:18; and Proverbs 22:26. What important rule do these verses teach us?`

Some people need to borrow money. But their bank won’t help them. The loan manager will tell the borrower to get a friend to sign the loan first. Then the bank will give the borrower the loan. If the borrower can’t pay the loan back, the bank will hold the borrower’s friend responsible for the loan. Then the friend will need to pay the loan back.

Sometimes a church member may ask you to help him or her get a loan. How should you answer? Tell the church member, “The Bible says I should never do that.” Please understand that the Bible encourages us to be helpful to people in need. But we shouldn’t become responsible for their loans.

Sometimes teenagers ask their parents to sign a loan for their first car. Or older children will ask parents to sign a business loan so they can start a business or get a house. How should we answer their needs? In the same way we answered the church member. Yes, we should help people who have a real need. But don’t agree to become responsible for other people’s loans. Studies show that 75% of people who agree to be responsible for other people’s loans end up having to pay the money back!

`Read Proverbs 28:20 and 1 Timothy 6:9, 10. What do these verses warn us about?`

Another “money trap” from Satan is get-rich-fast plans. These plans are tricks that will cheat you out of your money. When a plan to get rich looks as if it is too good to be true, that’s because it is. The problem is made worse because many people must borrow money to get involved in the plan in the first place. Many lives and families are destroyed by get-rich-fast plans. The criminals who invent these plans are the only ones who get rich. When a friend or loved one tries to pull you into one of these plans, run. Do not walk away. Run! Run away as fast as you can.