---
title:  Important Rules About Borrowing Money
date:   02/02/2023
---

`What does the Lord ask His people to do? Read Deuteronomy 15:1–6 for the answer.`

God gave His people rules about slavery (Exodus 21:2; Leviticus 25:3, 4) and about lenders. Lenders didn’t want to forgive anyone who couldn’t pay back a loan. So, the Lord put a limit on how long anyone had to owe money. The longest anyone was forced to pay back a loan was seven years. These verses in Deuteronomy 15:1–5 show that God cares about His people and how much they owe. The Lord understands that sometimes His people owe a lot of money because they got a loan from the bank. So, God wanted to help His people to avoid owing money as much as possible.

Today, many people get loans for 20 or 30 years for their homes. One reason that houses cost so much is because people can get loans to buy the houses.

At the same time, many parents and students wonder if they should borrow money to pay for school. People who go to college have the chance to earn more money. You may need to borrow money to pay for school. But please remember that you must pay that money back. Then you will need to pay extra money to the bank for their loan, too. So, try to get all the free money for school that you can. Work and save all you can for school, too. Take only those classes that will help you get a job. Ask your parents to help. In Bible times, parents gave their children farmland so they could make a living. Today, parents give their children an education. An education helps us get jobs so that we can take care of our families.

In a perfect life, no one would borrow money or owe any money. But life isn’t perfect. At times, you may need to borrow money. When you do, just make sure you get the best deal possible. Borrow only what you need. Pay off that loan as fast as possible to save on the cost that the bank will charge you to borrow the loan. Try to avoid borrowing money at all if you can. That’s the best rule to follow. When we follow good Bible rules in our everyday lives, we can avoid owing money. Owing money can put stress on us and on our families.

`Have you loaned anyone money? How fair are you to them? How will you answer to God for your behavior (read Ecclesiastes 12:14)?`