---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   03/02/2023
---

You can read more about the threepart plan (read Tuesday’s study) to help you pay off the money you owe. More information on this plan is found in Counsels on Stewardship by Ellen G. White. She writes:

“Promise to stop spending money you don’t have. Say no to buying a thousand things before you buy what you can’t afford. Spending money you don’t have has been the curse of your life. Avoid this habit the way you would stay away from an awful disease.

“Promise God that you will pay back everything you owe. Ask God for His blessing. Then owe no one anything, even if it means you must live only on cereal and bread. . . . Do not fail to do this. Don’t give up hope. Say no to self and all the things you wish for. Save your pennies and pay your loans.

“Pay your loans off as fast as you can. When you are free from owing money, then you will be a free person.You will have success when you owe no one anything.”—Counsels on Stewardship, page 257, adapted.

If you need more help to pay off your loans, try these helpful ideas:

_Make a budget._ Keep a record of everything you spend for three months. Study this record carefully to see how you spend your money. Many people are surprised to learn how much money they spend on things they don’t need.

_Destroy credit cards._ Credit cards are easy to use. But they are hard to pay off. Are you having trouble paying off what you owe on your credit cards each month? Are you using your credit cards to buy things that you don’t really need? If yes, then you should destroy your credit cards now before they destroy you or your marriage. Or both.

_Save as much as you can._ Sometimes we don’t know how much we can save each month. But if we are more careful, we can save a lot. Money saved adds up fast.

**Discussion questions**:

`People and governments owe so much money. What has been your experience with spending too much? What problems did this spending cause in your life?`

`What can your church do to help people manage their money better?`

`What Bible rules and promises can help protect you from a selfish heart and wanting things you can’t afford?`