---
title:  What Is a Turned Heart?
date:  22/06/2019
---

**Introduction**: Mal. 4:5

The original family template that God designed was perfect. God created both man and woman in His own image and gave them distinct roles. To Adam, God granted spiritual responsibility and authority, while Eve was to be a helpmate, of equal value with Adam. Therefore, the family was a single unit with an exceptional role to give glory to God.

However, when sin happened, it disrupted God’s perfect design for the family. Sin brought conflict and strife to the family institution, making it fragile, violent, and even shattered. Today’s family traces its roots to the Garden of Eden, where sin distorted God’s perfect design.

However, God has provided a means to restore the family to its original, perfect state. This can happen only through God’s love, unveiled in Jesus Christ, who offers hope and grace to the troubled unit. The family institution today needs direction, encouragement, and hope. Wisdom is needed to pray for the children and guide them in God’s Word. And husband and wife need constructive dialogue to remain united and happy.

God’s desire is to help us take courageous and decisive steps to overcome the lie that there is no hope in marriage and the family unit. God’s intention for us is to improve our families, to repair the broken bonds, and to foster healthy families after His original plan.

For that reason, God promises to send an “Elijah the prophet” to turn the hearts of people in troubled families just before the end time. In Ezekiel 36:26, the Bible speaks of a “new heart” and a “new spirit.” Sin hardened the hearts of humans and made them unreceptive to God’s precepts. After sin, the hearts became destitute of spiritual vigor. Humans began craving the desires of the world.

However, through the grace of God displayed in Christ Jesus, we are able to have new hearts and reclaim our original position with God. Through the living faith in our souls, we are able to look upon the crucified Savior, who offers complete salvation.

This week’s lesson will help us discover God’s promises, especially as they relate to turning hearts in the end time, as we prepare to meet Christ upon His second coming.

---

_Joan Omato, Kisii, Kenya_