---
title:  Turning Hearts in Hard Places
date:  25/06/2019
---

**Evidence**: 1 Kings 17:17–24

The story of Elijah and the widow at Zarephath illustrates the turning of hearts in hard places. Geographically, Zarephath is a Phoenician country on the north coast, somewhere between Tyre and Sidon. This region is a hotbed of idolatry, with all respect and loyalty given to the rain god Baal.

Elijah had been staying with a widow of Zarephath on God’s direction (1 Kings 17:9). Even though she had only enough ingredients to make one meal, the widow obeyed Elijah’s word and made a meal for the man of God (verse 15). This led to the miracle of multiplication in which, contrary to all expectation, neither the flour nor the jar of oil ran out (verse 16). This was the first opportunity for the widow and her son to turn their hearts to God.

Suddenly, a bigger problem comes up—her son dies (verse 17). Here is a woman who has lost a husband in a land ravaged by famine and drought. With the death of her son, the predicaments reach their climax. However, even in the face of this terrible situation, God offers hope, grace, and comfort. The presence of Elijah in her house was an opportunity to turn her heart to Jesus. In the end, Elijah does the unthinkable and raises the little boy from the bed of death (verses 21–23).

Many times, we find ourselves in similar situations where worldly predicaments can physically separate us from our loved ones. Elijah raising the boy from death is an illustration that family reunion is possible with God, despite the previous circumstances. Therefore, instead of asking, “God, why have You done this?” we should remember that “all things work together for good to them that love God” (Rom. 8:28).

God, in His power, is able to intervene in the course of our lives in ways that we do not understand. If we turn our hearts to God, He will intervene in the problems of our homes, lives, businesses, and families. God is the Creator of families, and He has the power to restore them even in the face of problems.

When troubles come, we may not understand why they happen in our lives. However, such situations could be an opportunity to turn our hearts and come closer to God.

**React**

`1. Suffering is painful, but how can we use a painful moment to draw closer to God?`

`2. Must we wait for a hard time to befall us in order to believe in God? Why, or why not?`

---

_Mary Brenda, Kisii, Kenya_