---
title:  Response From a Turned Heart
date:  26/06/2019
---

**How-to**: 1 Kings 17:24

Even in the worst of circumstances, God never leaves us alone. He leads us, equips us, and provides for His children. Elijah did an extraordinary thing in bringing the widow’s son back to life. By praying to God twice, he took upon himself the woes of the widow and brought them to the Lord in supplication and reverence (1 Kings 17:20, 21). The act of Elijah in this situation teaches us the power of prayer. In many instances, we think of prayer as the last thing to do when we are overwhelmed by situations. Many of us think of prayer as something secondary or peripheral. For Elijah, prayer came first, before anything else. Prayer was all he did to restore the boy to life.

In His infinite love for His children, God is ever determined to protect us. That is why He allows trials and temptations to come to us. As one writer puts it, He “puts His precious metal into His crucible. But He sits by it, and watches it. Love is His thermometer, and marks the degree of heat; not one instant’s unnecessary pang will He permit, and as soon as the dross is released so that He sees Himself reflected in the fire, the trial ceases.”1

We worship a God who hears and answers our prayers. He heard the voice of Elijah and listened to the very tone of his voice. God answered Elijah’s prayer on behalf of the widow and her son. When our hearts turn to God, we remember the following:

God loves us (John 3:16). When we experience a saving relationship with Jesus, we realize that God loves us more than we love ourselves. He forgives our sins and adopts us into His household and family.

Christ is an expression of God’s love to us. God gave His only Son, Jesus Christ, to die for us and to take the penalty for our sins. Christ became our substitute and bore the wrath that our sins deserved. When we turn our hearts to Him, we undergo spiritual transformation and accept the message of salvation. Prayer brings results. Affirmative prayer yields positive results. When we learn to call upon God in every situation, learn to trust His ways even when we cannot understand, we will lean upon His everlasting arms, knowing that God is in control of every situation in which we find ourselves.

**React**

`Why does God sometimes work against our wishes? How can we shape our wishes to concur with God’s?`

---

<sup>1. Arthur T. Pierson, The Bible and Spiritual Life (Los Angeles: Bible Institute of Los Angeles, 1923), p. 377.</sup>

_Joseph Omato, Kisii, Kenya_