---
title:  Turning Your Heart Is About Repentance
date:  27/06/2019
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 3:2, 8

John called the people of Israel to repent, “for the kingdom of heaven is at hand” (Matt. 3:2). Repent is an action word applicable to both believers and nonbelievers. To get the point of John’s message, we may look at repentance as two-dimensional.

First, to repent means you have made the decision to change your direction or mind-set. For a believer, repentance may entail turning the heart to God from a situation of spiritual coldness and indifference. This is in line with Christ’s message to the churches in Revelation 2 and 3. For a nonbeliever, repentance implies accepting Christ as the Savior of your life. Both instances involve turning your heart to Jesus by first recognizing that you are a sinner.

Turning your heart means that you have shifted your focus from one thing to another. In this case, you turn your heart from sin to the everlasting message of salvation brought by Christ. You must exercise faith in Christ to turn to Him and to repent of your sins.

On the other hand, repentance should come with a genuine sorrow. Genuine repentance enables us to recognize Christ as the Ruler of heaven and earth. Above all, it enables us to recognize the weight of our sins that Christ carried on the cross.

John called the people of his time to repentance, citing that “the kingdom of heaven is at hand” (Matt. 3:2). We can join the kingdom of Christ only by faith. We become part of the kingdom when we accept the message of salvation and develop a special relationship with Christ.

John 14:15 describes the love relationship that takes place between Christ and us when we turn our hearts to Him in repentance: “If ye love me, keep my commandments.” John called his hearers to repentance so that they could prepare the way for the Messiah. Repentance involved leaving their wicked ways and turning their hearts to Christ.

Today, we can prepare to meet Christ at His second coming by getting our lives right with God.

**React**

`1. Since Christ took the penalty for our sins, why does it take us so long to accept the message of salvation?`

`2. What are the signs that we have turned our hearts to Christ?`

---

_Alice Machoka, Machakos, Kenya_