---
title:  Time to Turn Hearts, Shall We?
date:  28/06/2019
---

**Exploration**: Luke 1:7

**Conclude**

During Elijah’s time, there was rampant idolatry in Israel, which led to violence and division within families. Both Elijah and John came at the right time to turn people’s hearts to God. The prophets aimed to divert the attention of the people away from the causes of their differences and bring the people to spiritual unity. As John and Elijah restored peace to families of their times, so we have the responsibility to point people to Jesus before His second coming.

**Consider**

- Sharing with a trusted member of your Sabbath School class a problem that you face in your family. Invite this person to share with you biblical ways to solve the problem.
- Writing a list of problems that affect families today. For each problem, come up with a solution based on what we have learned this week. Memorize a verse from this week’s lesson that reminds you of what is truly important.
- Meditating on areas in your life where you feel called to make sacrifices in order to turn the hearts of others to Christ. Ask God to empower you through the Holy Spirit to achieve this objective.
- Calling your village or neighborhood to repentance as John the Baptist did. Arm yourself with biblical reasons to convince people to leave their wicked ways and turn their hearts to Christ.
- Performing a play, with a group of friends, about the contest at Mount Carmel. Use the play to convey the message of 1 Kings 18:21.
- Planning a family fun day with your family in which you can spend time together. Use the opportunity to turn your hearts to Christ and to create memories.
- Volunteering to preach to people in unfortunate situations like hospitals, prisons, refugee camps, and disaster-stricken areas. Share the message that Christ is with them even in their struggles and they can feel the love when they turn their hearts to Him.


**Connect**

Isaiah 40:3; Malachi 4:6; Matthew 14:4, 5.

Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, chaps. 9–13; The Desire of Ages, chap. 10.

---

_Peter Machoka, Nairobi, Kenya_