---
title:  Taking Care of God’s Gifts After Eden
date:   27/01/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Isaiah 22:14–18; 1 Corinthians 4:1, 2; Colossians 2:2, 3; Ephesians 6:13–17. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “But we speak the Good News because God tested us and trusted us to do it.When we speak,we are not trying to please men. But we are trying to please God, who tests our hearts” (1 Thessalonians 2:4, ICB). 

Adam and Eve’s first job included stewardship. Stewardship is the special work we do as Christians to protect and take care of everything God gives us. God gave Adam and Eve the Garden of Eden to take care of and enjoy. They also ruled over all God made on earth (Genesis 2:15). Adam and Eve owned none of it. Instead, God made them managers. 

This week we will look more carefully at what it means to be good managers on a planet that is damaged by sin. Adam and Eve were managers of this earth. We, too, are managers of this earth. But the earth today is very different from the one Adam and Eve first enjoyed. 

What does the Bible say about being good managers? Some people in the Bible show what it means to be a good manager. What can we learn from them about being good managers? First, our understanding about what is important in life changes. Our eyes turn away from the things on this earth to look at God. God trusted Adam and Eve with a special work. He trusts us with special work too. But that work changed after the Fall in Eden. We continue to be managers of this earth. But God also made us managers of His truths. We must share His truths with other people. 