---
title:  Managers in the Old Testament
date:   28/01/2018
---

The word “manager” is used only a few times in the Old Testament. In most verses, it comes from the word picture that means someone who is “over [in control of] the house.” That person is the “steward” (NKJV) or “manager” (NIrV) (Genesis 43:19; read also Genesis 44:1, 4 and 1 Kings 16:9). Managers had many tasks. Those tasks included taking care of their master’s business and belongings. Managers also did whatever their masters asked them to do. The meaning of the word “manager” in the Old Testament can be found by looking at the behavior of managers and at their work. Managers cannot be separated from their work. What they do shows who they are. 

What makes a good manager? The Old Testament is clear:  (1) A manager’s job was very important (Genesis 39:4). It included many duties. Managers were chosen because of their skills.They received respect and trust from their masters for getting the job done. (2) Managers knew that they did not own the things they managed (Genesis 24:34–38).That is the big difference between a manager and an owner.Managers understood they were servants. (3) What would happen if a manager stole from his or her owner? Then the trust between them would be broken. And the manager would lose his of her job (Genesis 3:23; Hosea 6:7). 

`Read Isaiah 22:14–18. These verses describe a time when King Hezekiah ruled over God’s people. During that time, Shebna was the king’s manager and treasurer. A treasurer controls how money is saved and spent. Treasurers and managers need to be unselfish and not filled with pride. But Shebna wanted more than he should have.What happened to Shebna when he wanted more than he should have?` 

“The job of a manager is one of great respect because his master trusts him. But imagine what would happen if the manager acted in a selfish way? Or if he took the money he made from trading his master’s things and used it for what he wanted? Then this manager would have destroyed the trust his owner placed in him.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 9, page 246, adapted. 

`How can we better understand the important idea that we are managers of everything we own in this life?`