---
title:  Managers in the New Testament
date:   29/01/2018
---

Yesterday, we learned about managers in the Old Testament. Today, we study what the New Testament says. The two Greek words for “manager” in the New Testament are (1) epitropos and (2) oikonomos. Epitropos appears 3 times, while oikonomos is used 10 times. Both words mean jobs with important duties that owners gave to managers. 

Both Testaments talk about the work that managers do. The New Testament gives examples of this work. And it tells us that owners trusted their managers a lot (Luke 12:48). The New Testament talks about the type of person a manager must be (1 Corinthians 4:2). The idea of a manager is almost the same in both Testaments. But the main idea from the OldTestament is that God owns everything we have.The New Testament shows us that the idea of a manager means much more than taking care of someone else’s things. 

In Luke 16:1–15, Jesus tells the picture story about a manager who cheats his master. This story is more than just a tale about a manager who escapes ruin. Instead, Jesus uses this picture story to help us understand how to be a good manager. Jesus also uses the story to give advice on how to escape spiritual ruin, too.A wise manager will get ready for Jesus to come back (Matthew 25:21). 

`Read 1 Corinthians 4:1, 2; Titus 1:7; and 1 Peter 4:10. What do these verses tell us about managers and taking good care of all that God trusts us with?` 

“Should I open my heart to the Holy Spirit so that every part of me will wake up? Yes, God has trusted me with all these things. I belong to Jesus. I am employed by Him in His work on earth. And I am a manager of God’s loving-favor.”—Ellen G. White, Fundamentals [Basics] of Christian Education, page 301, adapted. 

In Luke 12:35–48, Jesus says that the people waiting for His Second Coming are “servants [managers].” The wise servant is ready. But the evil servant stops caring about his duties because his Master has not come back. The evil servant is unkind to people around him. He is no longer an example for good works or a manager of God’s loving-favor. 

`As Seventh-day Adventists, we often find it hard to live with this idea of a “delay.” How can we avoid behaving the same way as the disloyal servant in Luke 12:45?` 