---
title:  Managers of the important mysteries of God
date:   30/01/2018
---

`Read Colossians 2:2, 3 and 1Timothy 3:16.What do these verses mean by the word “mystery” (NIrV)?` 

Zophar the Naamathite says to Job, “ ‘Can you understand the secrets of God?’ ” (Job 11:7, ICB). The word “secrets” also can be written as “ ‘mysteries’ ” (NIrV). “Mystery” means “something not known or that is difficult to explain.” It also can mean “something kept secret.” Yes, the mysteries of God are written down in the Bible. But it is impossible to understand them fully. That is why they are “mysteries.” We can understand them only when God’s Spirit makes them known to us and helps us understand them. 

`What does Deuteronomy 29:29 say about the things God makes known to us?` 

We are managers of things we do not fully understand. We know only what the Holy Spirit and the Bible tell us. So, our first duty is to live “as servants who are owned by Christ. It is our job to share the secrets of God” (1 Corinthians 4:1, NLV). 

God wants us to protect, teach, and care for the truths He gives us. We take care of His truths by obeying them and teaching others to do the same. How we honor His truths is the highest form of serving Him. It means we are “hold[ing] on to the deep truths of the faith” with a heart that says we are right with God (1 Timothy 3:9, NIrV). 

We are human. So, how can we really know God? The chance to know Him is the biggest mystery of all. God’s plan to save us is impossible for us to understand fully. After all, who can know fully why the One who made us (John 1:1–3) would come down to this earth in a human body? Who can know why He would die for our sins? The things God did for us are mysteries.They never can be known fully by anyone made by Him. Even angels study to understand the mystery of why Jesus came to earth (1 Peter 1:12). But what we know of the mystery causes us to praise God for loving us (read Revelation 5:13). We praise God that Jesus is our “hope of glory” (Colossians 1:27, NIrV) to come. 

`God chose you to be a servant of the Good News about Jesus. What duties come with that job?`