---
title:  Guarding spiritual Truth
date:   31/01/2018
---

Often, we think of the gifts God gives us as the stuff we can see and touch. And that is true. But there is much more that God gives us. He also gives us gifts we cannot see or touch (1 Peter 4:10). God gives us these gifts to help us become unselfish and loving. These gifts help us to become the same as Jesus. God also gives us these gifts to make us better people. This fact makes these spiritual treasures worth far more than any other gifts God gives us. So, we must take care of them even more carefully than we take care of the gifts we can see and touch. 

`Read Ephesians 6:13–17. What gifts do these verses say God gives us? Why is it so important to take care of them?` 

“God gives you the gift of eternal [everlasting] life” (Romans 6:23, NIrV). All that this life offers cannot give us this gift that God offers to us in Jesus. The gift of everlasting life is the most valuable thing we own. We must always remember that this gift is real. Then we will be better managers of the other things God gave us. 

“The stories about Bethlehem and the Cross show how good it is to win the victory over evil. They teach us how all our blessings are gifts from God. They are part of His plan to save us.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 101, adapted. 

We have the gift of everlasting life only because Jesus paid the price for it. Paul says: “In Christ [Jesus] we are set free by the blood of his death. And so we have forgiveness of sins because of God’s rich grace [loving-favor]” (Ephesians 1:7, ICB). What wonderful news! We are forgiven! The gift of everlasting life is ours. But it is ours only because God gives it to us. So, we must guard this gift carefully. We must “wear the full armor [battle suit] of God” (Ephesians 6:11, ICB) at all times. Then Satan cannot steal our gift of everlasting life from us. He can take this gift from us only if we let him steal it. How do we let him steal it from us? We let him steal it when we do not obey “the teaching of God” (Ephesians 6:17, ICB). So, our best protection is to obey the truth God gave us. 

`How do we put on the “full armor [battle suit]” of God that Paul writes about in Ephesians 6:13–17 (ICB)? How do we take good care of this armor?` 