---
title:  Our duty as God’s servants
date:   01/02/2018
---

So far, we learned that managers are servants who take care of the things God gives them. Wise managers also are willing to accept what happens because of the choices they make. Responsible managers also understand the connection between the choices they make and what happens next because of those choices. So, good managers always think carefully about their choices and accept what happens because of those choices. Wise managers make decisions that will help their Owner [God] succeed. 

“God wishes for us to be connected to Him. It is important to God that we understand what it means to be responsible for our choices and to accept what happens because of our choices. God wants us to depend on Him. God also wants us to learn how much we need to trust Him to guide us. God gives His gifts to each person. God made every person a manager of His holy gifts. God trusts each person to use these gifts in this life in the way God chooses. Each person must give a report to God of how he used those gifts in this life.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 7, page 176, adapted. 

Managers do not give their duties or their work to other people. Instead, they gladly do the work God gives them. As God’s managers, we are responsible to God. We show other people we are God’s managers when we are kind to them (Genesis 39:9 and Daniel 3:16). We will do the work God gives us to do. We will do it to the best of our abilities. Success in God’s eyes depends on our having faith and pure hearts. Success does not depend on our brains or skills. 

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:10. This verse is talking about how everyone who has ever lived must stand before God to be judged. How does that truth help us to be good managers?` 

Bible thinkers and those who study the meaning of life have argued for hundreds of years about the topic of free will. Free will is the power to choose how we live our lives. The Bible is clear: humans have free will and free choice. After all, how could God judge us at all if we did not have free will and free choice? It makes no sense for us to be judged if we cannot decide how we will live. So, we are responsible for making the right decisions in everything we do. That work includes being loyal managers of all God’s gifts to us.