---
title:  Additional thought
date:   02/02/2018
---

The word written as “manager” in the Old Testament does not come from just one Hebrew word. Instead, it comes from the words: asher al bayt. Together, these words mean “the one who is on, or in control of, a house.” So, Genesis 43:19 can be written as: “So the brothers went to the servant in control of Joseph’s house” (ICB). Now let us say that the word “house” also includes “family.” Then what could be worth more to a person than his or her home? So, a manager is someone trusted with something that has a lot of value and worth. But this thing does not belong to the manager. In many ways, this fact makes his or her job more important. Indeed, we must be even more careful with things that are not ours. 

This same idea about managers is found in the New Testament, too. “The New Testament takes the ideas about managers in the Old Testament and connects them with the ideas and words used to describe managers in the first 100 years after Jesus. In this way, the New Testament helps us understand better what it means to be good managers of God’s property and His gifts to us. The two Greek words most often used to talk about managers are oikos and oikia. They mean ‘house.’ And the Greek word oikonomos means the person who is in control of the house. He is the manager. Oikonomia is another Greek word that means having ‘control over the house.’ ”—Handbook of Seventh-day Adventist Theology [Study of God] (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald® Publishing Association, 2000), page 653, adapted. 

**Discussion questions** 

`1 Adam refused to accept the blame for eating the forbidden fruit. Instead, what did Adam say to God when God asked Adam what he did (Genesis 3:12)? This story shows that we often blame other people for our bad choices. How can we learn to stop blaming other people for our mistakes?` 

`2 Think more about the idea that God makes us managers of spiritual things.What does that idea mean? How can we take care of things we cannot see or touch?` 

`3 God made us managers of the truths given in Revelation 14:6–12. What are those truths?` 

`4 Why is it so important to trust in and believe in spiritual things we do not fully understand?` 