---
title:  Knowing and Loving God
date:   26/07/2026
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 8:1–13. Why does Paul compare knowing God with loving Him? What is Paul talking about in these verses?`

Paul talks about food offered to the statues of false gods. Paul uses this topic to talk about a bigger problem in the church: not having enough love in our hearts (1 Corinthians 8). The church separated into two groups because of the problem with eating food offered to statues. Some church members believed they could eat food offered to statues of false gods. That was because they knew these gods weren’t real (1 Corinthians 8:4). Paul says these Christians are strong (1 Corinthians 4:10). But Paul says that the Christians who complain about this behavior are weak (1 Corinthians 8:9–12). Why does Paul say these Christians are weak? Because they didn’t give up some of their false beliefs when they became Christians. What happened when these weak Christians saw the strong Christians eating food offered to false statues? The weak Christians thought that maybe they can worship Jesus and false gods, too. So, Paul didn’t want the strong Christians to cause the weak Christians to sin.

The Bible doesn’t have nice things to say about people eating food offered to statues (Acts 15:20, 29; Acts 21:25; compare with Revelation 2:14, 20). But Paul doesn’t use the same strong language in these verses to talk about this topic in his letter to the Corinthians. Paul wants the church to be at peace. He knows that this topic can cause separation in the church. Paul is not saying that knowledge itself is evil. But Paul is against church members being filled with pride and separating from the church because they think they know more than other members. What happens when we share Bible truth without love in our hearts? We can cause separation in the church. If we have Bible truth, but we don’t have love in our hearts, we really know nothing (1 Corinthians 8:2). We must love God and know Him. Then He can make us wise (1 Corinthians 8:3).

Both Paul and Moses teach that we must have love in our hearts. Or everything we know about God is useless.

`Paul says if we don’t have love in our hearts, what we know may become a bad thing (1 Corinthians 8). Why must we share our beliefs with love?`