---
title:  Love That Isn’t Selfish
date:   27/07/2026
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 9:1–6. What example of love do these verses show us?`

In 1 Corinthians 9, Paul offers us examples of love that isn’t selfish. Paul and Barnabas want to help other Christians grow strong in their faith. So, they don’t accept any money, support, or other things that other Bible workers got from working for the church. Some of these things that Paul and Barnabas didn’t do or accept included:

**“Receiv[ing] food and drink from the people that we [Paul and Barnabas] help”** (1 Corinthians 9:4, EASY). Paul was an apostle. An apostle was a leader, teacher, and preacher in the church. As an apostle, Paul may ask the people he helps to support him. Many spiritual leaders in Paul’s day used to do that. But Paul didn’t. He supported himself with making tents (Acts 18:3).

**“Bring[ing] a believing wife with us when we travel”** (1 Corinthians 9:5, ERV). A married apostle was allowed to bring his wife with him on his preaching trips. The church agreed to pay for it. Examples of married couples include Priscilla and Aquila (Romans 16:3), Adronicus and Junia (Romans 16:7). But Paul wasn’t married (1 Corinthians 7:8). Yes, Paul could get married. Then he could get support from the church for himself and his wife when they traveled. But Paul chose not to do that.

**Not “working for a living”** (1 Corinthians 9:6, NLV). Paul and Barnabas were allowed to earn pay for their work for God (1 Corinthians 9:4–6). But they didn’t accept any money from the church. Paul made tents for a living (Acts 18:3). We don’t know what work Barnabas did for a living. We do know that Barnabas sold land that he owned and gave the money to some Bible workers (Acts 4:36, 37). Barnabas was willing to work to support himself.

Is it fair for Paul and Barnabas to earn a living from the church? Paul shows that the answer is “Yes” (1 Corinthians 9:7–12). The Lord Himself commanded, “Those [people] who tell the Good News should get their living from this work” (1 Corinthians 9:14, ERV). But Paul doesn’t get any money from the church. Why not? Paul says that his choice not to accept money makes his preaching of the Good News more powerful. So, Paul is an example of love that is not selfish (1 Corinthians 9:1–18).