---
title:  Learning From the Past
date:   28/07/2026
---

In 1 Corinthians 9:27, Paul talks about why self-control is important. Paul wants Christians to follow his example. At the same time, Paul says that Jesus is the best example of self-control for us to follow (1 Corinthians 11:1).

`What sins did Israel do in the desert? God blessed Israel with many gifts during this time. Why did these gifts make Israel’s sins even worse? Read 1 Corinthians 10:7–11 for the answer.`

In 1 Corinthians 10:1–5, Paul talks about the history of God’s people in the desert. Paul’s words about the cloud and the sea help us remember how God led and protected Israel in the desert. Paul also talks about the food and drink that God gave His people. The food and drink are a symbol of God’s loving care. Paul talks about the experience of Israel in the cloud and sea. This experience is the same as a baptism. In the same way, when Paul talks about the food and drink, he helps us remember the Lord’s Supper.

In other words, 1 Corinthians 10 teaches us that Christians are living the same experiences that Israel lived in the desert. Paul tells us Israel’s history because he doesn’t want us to make their mistakes. God blessed Israel in many ways. But Israel wanted evil things (1 Corinthians 10:6). They wanted to worship false gods (1 Corinthians 10:7). They did sex sins (1 Corinthians 10:8). No wonder, then, that “God was not pleased with most of them” (1 Corinthians 10:5, ICB).

We can easily blame the Israelites for their bad behavior. But Paul says that Christians can easily do the same sins, even with everything we know about Jesus. That’s why Paul warns us: “So watch yourself! The person who thinks he can stand against sin had better watch that he does not fall into sin” (1 Corinthians 10:12, NLV). The words “who thinks” tell us that some people in the church didn’t know they were in danger of doing the same sins that Israel did. Are we in the same danger today?

`Satan will try to get us to sin. But the Bible promises that God “will not allow the testing to be too hard for you” (1 Corinthians 10:13, WE). God will make a way to keep us from sinning. So, why do we continue to sin?`