---
title:  Do Not Worship False Gods
date:   29/07/2026
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 10:5–22. Why must we not worship false gods?`

In 1 Corinthians 10:14–22, Paul again talks about food offered to statues of false gods. Today, we may think the idea of offering food to statues is strange. But people offered food to statues all the time in Bible times. People killed animals and offered the meat to the gods in temples. The people gave part of the animal to the priests. The priests were the religious leaders at the temples. The priests sold the meat. Some of the meat was sold in the public markets. This meat was not kept separate from other meat that was also sold in the market. So, a Christian could buy meat that was offered to statues and not know it. Paul gave the church some advice about the meat: Christians may buy the meat that was offered to statues in temples.

So, Christians could eat this meat at home (1 Corinthians 8:1–13). Paul said that Christians were allowed to eat the meat at home because the false gods are not alive. They were nothing (1 Corinthians 8:4). But Christians must not go to the temple celebrations of false gods. Why? Because that is the same as worshiping demons (1 Corinthians 10:20, 21). As Paul says, “You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and then go drink a cup that honors demons. You cannot share a meal at the Lord’s table and then go share a meal that honors demons” (1 Corinthians 10:21, ERV). As Jesus said, “ ‘You cannot serve two masters at the same time’ ” (Matthew 6:24, ERV).

Paul teaches us that God wants us to serve Him with our whole hearts. When we worship false gods, we make God jealous (1 Corinthians 10:22). Paul gives us a rule against worshiping false gods when he shares a quote that Moses wrote in Deuteronomy 6:4, 5: “ ‘Listen, people of Israel! The Lord is our God. The Lord is the only God. You must love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength’ ” (ERV). To this idea, Jesus added, “ ‘You should love other people as much as you love yourself’ ” (Mark 12:31, EASY).

`A false god can be more than a stone or wood statue. We can make false gods from almost anything. What false gods, if any, do you need to give up in your life?`