---
title:  How to Give Up False Gods
date:   30/07/2026
---

In 1 Corinthians 8:1–3, Paul says that love for God keeps us safe from worshiping false gods. Paul talks about this topic some more in 1 Corinthians 10:23–11:1. In 1 Corinthians 8:3, Paul talks about our love for God. Later, Paul talks about our love for other people. “Do not think about the things that will help you. Instead [but], each of you should think about what will help other people” (1 Corinthians 10:24, EASY).

`Read Mark 10:17–22 and Mark 12:28–31. What is the same about these two verses? How do these verses help us understand 1 Corinthians 10?`

In 1 Corinthians 10, Paul does the same thing Jesus did in Mark 12:28–31. Paul connects the two most important commandments of God’s law: love for God and love for other people. In the story about the rich young man (Mark 10:17–22), Jesus connects these two types of love. Jesus wants us to think about Deuteronomy 6:4 (read Mark 10:8) and the last six commandments (read Mark 10:18). The rich young man had a problem. He loved the things he owned more than he loved God and other people (Mark 10:20). The rich young man loved his money more than he loved the poor (Mark 10:21, 22). So, this young man worshiped a false god: money.

In 1 Corinthians 10:27, 28, Paul teaches us that we must love God more than anything else. We must love people as we love ourselves. At the same time, love doesn’t mean that we “ ‘are free to do anything!’ . . . Not everything helps you to be strong as a believer [Christian]” (1 Corinthians 10:23, EASY). Some things don’t help other people grow strong. That’s why Paul adds, “Do everything to honor God” (1 Corinthians 10:31, NLV). Honor and praise belong only to God. Anything that ‘steals’ honor from God is the same as a false god (Isaiah 42:8). So, we must not give honor, praise, or attention to any false gods. When we do, we ‘rob’ God of the things that belong to Him.

In 1 Corinthians 10:33, Paul says that he didn’t live to make himself happy. He did what was best for other people because he wanted “them to be saved” (1 Corinthians 10:33). That is how Paul copied Jesus in his life.

`How can you learn to love other people as you love yourself?`