---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   31/07/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Idolatry at Sinai,” pages 315–330, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Just think about all the good things we could do if we lived to bless other people! God blesses each of us with gifts. We must use these gifts to help other people. . . . Then everyone who really loves God will stop worshiping self.”—Ellen G. White, in Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, November 18, 1884, adapted.

“Paul wanted Christians to think about how their words and behavior made other people think and feel. Paul didn’t want them to do anything that caused anyone to think they supported the worship of false gods. Some new Christians were weak in the faith. Paul didn’t want the strong Christians to do anything to cause them to fall into sin. That’s why Paul said, ‘When you eat anything, or you drink anything, do it all in a way that praises God’ [1 Corinthians 10:31, EASY]. . . .

“Paul’s warning to the church at Corinth also is for Christians in every time and age. His words are also for our time today. What were the false gods that Paul was talking about? Yes, Paul was talking about not worshiping statues made from wood or stone. But we can make self our false god. Do you love an easy life? That can be your false god. What about eating and drinking anything you want? Then those things can be your false gods, too.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 316, 317, adapted.

“Are you doing something good that is holding God’s work back? Then stop doing it. Do not do things that get in the way of God’s work. Don’t do anything that will cause other people to reject Bible truth. . . . You may be allowed to do many things. But if they will hurt God’s work on this earth, we should not do them.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 9, page 215, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Paul tells us that sometimes the behavior of a strong Christian can hurt the growth of a weak Christian. Think about the times when that may happen. Why is loving God more than anything the answer to this problem?`

`What are some of the false gods we worship today?`

`Why is worshiping false gods so bad?`