---
title:  The Lamb Is Worthy to Take the Book
date:   19/01/2019
---

_The word pictures in the Old Testament help us understand the word pictures in the New Testament._

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Revelation 4; Revelation 5.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “One of the leaders said to me, ‘Stop crying. See! The Lion [Jesus] from the family group of Judah has power and has won. He can open the book and break its seven locks. He is of [from] the family of David’ ” (Revelation 5:5, NLV).

**LAST WEEK**, we looked at Jesus’ messages to His people on earth. Now God’s message to John moves from earth to heaven. There, John sees things that “ ‘must happen after this’ ” (Revelation 4:1, ERV). What does John see? He sees the future.

In Revelation 4 and 5, Jesus shows John God’s throne room in heaven. John uses word pictures or signs in Revelation 4 and 5 to show us God’s plan to save us. John also shows us that God controls history. But before John shows us the future, he gives us a picture of Jesus starting His work for us in heaven. This work is very important for us on earth.

Did you notice that John uses simple words and clear pictures to write God’s messages to the seven churches? That is going to change. From now on, John will use word pictures that are much harder to understand. John bor- rowed a lot of his word pictures from the Old Testament. So, we need to understand the word pictures used in the Old Testament first. Then we will understand correctly the word pictures that John uses in the book of Revelation.


