---
title:  In Heaven’S Throne Room
date:   20/01/2019
---

_The rainbow around God’s throne is a word picture that shows us that God keeps His promises._

Jesus invites John to heaven to see what will happen in the future. Starting in Revelation 4:1, Jesus shows John a panorama. A panorama is a full view of something in pic- tures. The panorama that Jesus shows John is a short but full history in pictures of the war between God and Satan. The panorama starts with pictures of history from John’s time and ends with pictures of the Second Coming.

`Revelation 4:1–8; Ezekiel 1:26–28; and Revelation 5:11– 14 show us heaven’s throne room. What do these verses teach us about the royal beauty of God’s throne room?`

John saw that the door to the temple in heaven was open. He looked into the temple and saw God’s throne. God’s throne is a word picture for His power over everything He made. The rainbow around God’s throne is a word pic- ture that shows God keeps His promises. But Satan went to war against God’s power and broke up the perfect peace in heaven. Satan is God’s enemy. Satan tried to steal God’s power for himself. The question at the center of the world- wide war between good and evil is: Who has the real power to rule? God or Satan? A group of elders, or leaders, meets in the throne room in heaven to announce the truth: God alone has the true power to rule everything.

`What do Revelation 4:8–11 and Revelation 5:9–14 teach us about true worship? Why do Revelation 4:8–11 say we should worship God? Why do Revelation 5:9–14 say we should worship the Lamb? Why is God worthy of our worship?`

Revelation 4 gives us a picture of heaven’s throne room. This chapter also shows us that God is worshiped there all the time. Revelation 4 praises God’s power to make things. Revelation 5 celebrates God’s plan to save us from sin. Revelation 4 and 5 show us that true worship includes celebrating God’s work as the One who made us and saves us. God’s power can make everything new. He promises to do exactly that.

`The God who made us also is the Lamb who was killed for our sins. What hope do we get from this idea?`