---
title:  The Meeting In Heaven’S Throne Room
date:   21/01/2019
---

_The four living things are holy and powerful. They serve God and guard His throne (Psalm 99:1)._

Revelation 4:4 tells us about the 24 leaders in God’s throne room in heaven. Another name for these leaders is elders. The 24 elders are not angels. The book of Revelation always shows angels standing when they are next to God. But the 24 elders sit on thrones. The 24 elders also wear white clothes. All God’s people wear white clothes in John’s vision (Revelation 3:4, 5; Revelation 7:13,14). The white they wear is a word picture. It shows us that Jesus’ holy life covers His people the same as clothes. The 24 elders wear crowns on their heads too. The word “crowns” comes from the Greek word “stephanos [ste’-fä-nos].” The crowns are a sign that the ones who wear them won a prize. Only God’s people who win the war over sin get to wear these special crowns (James 1:12). So, all these hints help us to see that the 24 elders may be believers that God wakes up from the dead.

The 24 elders do not show up in the Bible until John writes about them. They may be the same people that God woke up from the dead when Jesus died (Matthew 27:51–53). Ephesians 4:8 says that when Jesus went up to heaven, He took a group of people with Him. It is very possible that this group of people are the same people as the 24 elders.

If so, these 24 elders who go up to heaven with Jesus become witnesses of God’s actions in the plan to save His people. They see that God is fair in all that He does to save us. In Revelation 4, the 24 elders sit on thrones in God’s throne room. They fall down in front of Jesus and worship Him because He died on the cross (Revelation 5:8).

`Revelation 4:6–8 also say there were “four living things” (Revelation 4:6, ICB). Compare these four living things to the four living things in Ezekiel 1:5–14 and Ezekiel 10:20– 25 and the angels in Isaiah 6:2, 3? How are they the same?`

The four living things are holy and powerful. They serve God and guard His throne (Psalm 99:1). Their six wings show how fast they act to do whatever God asks. Their many eyes show how smart they are. One living thing looks the same as a lion. The 2nd living thing looks the same as a cow, the 3rd the same as a man, and the 4th as an eagle. Together, the four living things, the many angels around God’s throne in the temple, and the 24 elders show us that people from heaven and earth are in God’s throne room.