---
title:  The Closed Roll Of Writing Paper
date:   22/01/2019
---

_John’s tears are a word picture. They show us the sad feelings of all God’s people who cried since Adam’s time for God to save them from sin._

`In Revelation 5:1–4, John tells us that he sees a scroll. A scroll is a roll of writing paper. Now read about the scroll that Isaiah talks about in Isaiah 29:11, 12. How does the closed scroll in Isaiah help us to understand the meaning of the closed scroll in Revelation 5:1?`

The Greek that John uses shows us that the scroll is on the throne next to God the Father’s right hand. The scroll waited for Someone who was worthy to open it.

Ellen G. White tells us about the writing on the scroll: “It is history. This history shows us how God cares for His people and guides them. The scroll also shows us the things that will happen in the future in different countries and in the church. Many other things are written on the scroll: God’s sayings, His power, commandments, and laws. The scroll also con- tains God’s wise advice, written in word pictures, or signs, and the history of all the governments on the earth. In word pictures and signs, the scroll tells the story about the power of each nation and people, from the beginning of earth’s history until the end of time.”—Ellen G. White, Manuscript [writings] Releases [printed material], volume 9, page 7, adapted.

The closed scroll contains God’s plans to solve the sin problem and save humans. This plan is a mystery. We can- not fully understand this plan now. But we will understand it at the Second Coming (read Revelation 10:7).

`Revelation 5:5–7 tell us that Jesus takes the closed scroll. Why is Jesus the only Person in all heaven and earth who is worthy to open it?`

At first, a short but awful waiting time happens in heaven. It seems that there is no one who can open the scroll. This waiting time is a word picture. It shows us that Satan’s war against God is the reason that no one can open the scroll. Satan stole the control of this planet from God and made himself king. John cries when there is no one worthy to open the scroll. John’s tears are a word picture too. They show us the sad feelings of all God’s people who cried since Adam’s time for God to save them from sin. The closed scroll was God’s plan to solve the sin problem. Jesus is the only One who has the power to open it, because He won the war over sin for us.


