---
title:  The Lamb Is Worthy To Take The Book
date:   23/01/2019
---

_When Jesus takes the scroll, it shows that He holds the power to control everyone’s future in His hands._

`Read Revelation 5:8–14 along with Ephesians 1:20–23 and Hebrews 10:12. These verses talk about something that gives us hope and comfort in a life with very little hope at all. What do these verses tell us that gives us hope?`

Jesus is the Lamb. He comes to the throne and takes the closed book or scroll. Yesterday, we saw that a scroll is a roll of writing paper. When Jesus takes the scroll, it shows He has all power in heaven and on earth (read Matthew 28:18; Ephesians 1:20–22). In that moment, everyone in heaven and all the people living on other planets agree about something. They agree that Jesus is the true King of the earth. Jesus is the only One who has the true power to rule over the earth. Adam lost that power. But Jesus won back the power that Adam lost to Satan.

When Jesus takes the scroll, it shows that He holds the power to control everyone’s future in His hands. That is why the four living things and the 24 elders, or leaders, fall down in front of Jesus and worship Him again. They do the same thing in Revelation 5:9 when they sing this song to Jesus: “ ‘You are worthy to take the scroll and break open its seals [locks]. You are worthy because you were put to death’ ” (NIrV). The angels sing this song, along with the 24 elders, who seem to be examples of Jesus’ power to wake up the dead. This song shows that they believe in Jesus’ power to save humans. With His blood, Jesus paid the price for sinners. He offers to save us and promises us a beautiful future with Him. Yes, our life with Jesus will be beautiful. But in this life, we cannot make a picture in our minds of heaven’s beauty.

Now the angels around God’s throne join the four living things and the 24 elders. Together, they sing praises to both God the Father and their King, Jesus (Revelation 5:12). At this time, all life in heaven and on earth gives praise to both God the Father and Jesus (Revelation 5:13). When everyone finish- es praising God, the four living things say, “ ‘Amen’ ” (Revelation 5:14, ERV). Then the 24 elders bow down and worship God.

`Some scientists say that one day outer space will burn up, fail, or break apart. That future is so different from the Bible’s promises about the future. How can we start, right now, being happy about our future life in heaven?`