---
title:  What The Gift Of God’S Spirit Means To Us 
date:   24/01/2019
---

_After Jesus wakes up from the dead, He goes to heaven and sits on the throne at God’s right side. Now Jesus is ready to fin­ ish God’s plan to save us._

Acts 2:1–4 shows us one of the most important times in the history of God’s plan to save us. It is the time when Jesus starts His work as our King and our High Priest. A high priest is a holy leader. He works to save his people from sin. Jesus is our High Priest. He works for us right now in heaven’s sanctuary. Heaven’s sanctuary is the place where God’s throne is. After Jesus wakes up from the dead, He goes to heaven and sits on the throne at God’s right side (Hebrews 12:2; read also Revelation 3:21). Now Jesus is ready to finish God’s plan to save us. He can do every- thing that needs to be done. Jesus also is our Lawyer in heaven’s sanctuary. Jesus allows sinners to come to God the Father and be forgiven.

`Acts 2:32–36 and John 7:39 talk about God’s promise to give Jesus’ followers the Holy Spirit. Why did Jesus need to be honored in heaven first before God poured the Holy Spirit on Jesus’ followers on earth?`

Jesus receives glory and praise in heaven. Then God pours His Spirit on Jesus’ followers on earth. Revelation 5:6 tells us about the “seven spirits of God, which are sent out into all the earth” (Revelation 5:6, NIrV). The seven Spirits are a word picture for the Holy Spirit’s work on earth. One of the first things Jesus does for us as our High Priest is send us the Holy Spirit. God pours the Holy Spirit on the church to show us that He accepts Jesus’ death for our sins.

“Jesus’ trip to heaven is a sign. It shows His followers that God will soon pour His Spirit on them. . . . Jesus walks inside heaven’s gates. Then He sits on His throne. Angels all around His throne give Him glory. As soon as this cele- bration ends, God pours His Spirit on Jesus’ followers. This act adds much more glory to the glory that Jesus already shares with God the Father. When God pours His Spirit on the church, God shows everyone on earth that He accepts Jesus as the King and High Priest of humans. Jesus sends the Holy Spirit from heaven to His followers to show them He now has all power in heaven and on earth.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], pages 38, 39, adapted.