---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   25/01/2019
---

_Only the Good News can lead people to love and obey God._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘To My Father, and Your Father,’ ” pages 829–835, in The Desire of Ages; “The Gift of the Spirit,” pages 47–56; in The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers].

The message in Revelation 4 and 5 is very important to God’s people who live at the end of earth’s history. God’s gift of the Holy Spirit shows us when the church started preaching the Good News.The center of the message in Revelation 4 and 5 is Jesus. God made Jesus our High Priest and King. [A high priest is a holy leader. He works to save his people from sin. Jesus is our High Priest. He works for us right now in heaven’s sanctuary. Heaven’s sanctuary is the temple in heaven where Jesus works to save His people.] This teaching was at the center of Christian beliefs in New Testament times (Hebrews 8:1). It also was the center of Christian preaching (Acts 2:32–36; Acts 5:30, 31). This truth made the first Christians want to work for Jesus. It was the reason why their faith and courage stayed strong, even when people attacked them and when life grew hard (Acts 7:55, 56; Romans 8:34). Because Jesus’ followers had faith in Him as their High Priest and King, many people accepted the Good News. From that time, God’s kingdom showed itself to everyone on earth. God’s kingdom keeps showing itself to people every- where today. Jesus continues to work with His Holy Spirit to help His people.

We must never forget something: only the Good News about Jesus can touch human hearts and change them. Only the Good News can lead people to love and obey God. Only the Good News can lead people to give God glory and worship Him (Revelation 14:7). Our only hope is in our Savior. He is our Priest and King in heaven’s sanctuary. He is with His people now. He will always be with them until the end (Matthew 28:20). Jesus holds the future in His loving hands.

So, let us never forget that we must keep the Good News at the center of everything we do. The power of the Good News will bring full success to our preaching. We must preach the last message about mercy from Jesus to suffer- ing humans and to people who are not saved. Nothing else we preach is more important than the Cross and the truth that teaches us about God.


**DISCUSSION QUESTION**:

`1. One day we will praise God in heaven. But what are ways we can praise Him now for all He has done?`