---
title:  Hope Beyond Pandemics
date:  29/10/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 11**

**Hope Beyond Pandemics**

The coronavirus pandemic has turned many people’s lives upside down. Hundreds of thousands have died in some nations and in the millions worldwide. Family members were unable to attend the funerals of their loved ones, and some of the dead did not even have family members or friends to claim them—they died alone. Losing grandmothers and grandfathers, fathers and mothers, siblings, children and friends was a painful ordeal. Furthermore, many of those who did not contract the virus panicked at the thought of being infected. In these times when people face the reality of their mortality, the Bible offers the reality of God’s hope and assurance.

According to the gospel record, Jesus resurrected three people during His earthly ministry. He resurrected the son of the widow of Nain (Luke 7:11–15) and the daughter of Jairus (Luke 8:40–42, 49–56) shortly after their death. Because they had just died, the unbelieving religious leaders claimed they were not really dead, that Jesus faked their resurrection. However, the third person Jesus resurrected, Lazarus, proved they were dead wrong. Lazarus had been dead, wrapped in linen and buried in the tomb, for four days. When Jesus commanded the stone of the sepulcher to be removed, Martha complained, “ ‘Lord, by this time there is a stench, for he has been dead four days’ ” (John 11:39). There was no way to explain this miracle away!

The story of the resurrection of Lazarus contains precious gems of truth which prove that Jesus is God in the flesh, the Life Giver, truly the Resurrection and the Life. And the same Jesus who resurrected Lazarus lives today and offers the assurance of life eternal to those who trust in Him!

#### inScribe

Read John 11 from the translation of your choice. Write out John 11:21–27. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `