---
title:  Belief and Unbelief
date:  30/10/2022
---

#### inGest

The central theme of the Lazarus story is “belief and unbelief.” At each turn, the disciples, Martha, Mary, the crowd, and the religious leaders manifested either a not fully informed _belief_ or a boldfaced _unbelief_ that Jesus was the Messiah.

When Jesus suggested a return to Judea, the disciples objected (John 11:7, 8). Thomas said, “ ‘Let us also go, that we may die with Him’ ” (v. 16). Earlier the enemies of Jesus intended to stone Him in Judea (John 8:58, 59; 10:31, 39), but they were unable to because He was under the protective care of His Father. The disciples _disbelieved_ that the Father could protect Jesus, however.

When Jesus said to His disciples, “Lazarus is dead, and I am glad that I was not there,” He explained why He was glad: “ ‘That you may _believe_’ ” (John 11:15, emphasis supplied). When Jesus told Martha that her brother would rise again (v. 23), she responded that she knew he would rise at the last day (v. 24), to which Jesus said, “ ‘I am the resurrection and the life. He who _believes_ in Me, though he may die, he shall live. And whoever lives and _believes_ in Me shall never die. Do you _believe_ this?’ ” (vv. 25, 26, emphasis supplied). Like Peter (Matt. 16:16), Martha replied that she _believed_ Jesus was the Christ, the Son of God (John 11:27), yet she did not fully understand her confession, as we can see by the way she reacted when Jesus commanded the removal of the stone (v. 39).

Mary echoed the words of Martha: “ ‘_If_ you had been here my brother would not have died’ ” (v. 32, emphasis supplied). When Mary met Jesus, the crowd was wailing, and Jesus “groaned in the spirit, and was troubled” because of their unbelief (v. 33). Jesus then came to the tomb and wept. He did not weep for Lazarus but rather because of their future actions (see inSight). They were oblivious to who Jesus really was.

When Jesus commanded the removal of the stone, Martha objected, to which Jesus responded, “ ‘Did I not say to you that _if_ you would _believe_ you would see the glory of God?’ ” (v. 40, emphasis supplied). Jesus then prayed to His father so that the people would realize He and His Father were a team working in unison, that “ ‘they may _believe_ that you sent Me’ ” (v. 42, emphasis supplied).

When Jesus resurrected Lazarus, many of the Jews who witnessed the miracle “_believed_ in Him” (v. 45, emphasis supplied). Despite the irrefut- able evidence that Jesus was God incarnate, however, some in the crowd _disbelieved_ and went to tell the Pharisees what Jesus had done (v. 46). The Pharisees responded by calling a meeting of the Sanhedrin to plan the execution of Jesus. Their concern was that everyone might _believe_ in Jesus (vv. 47, 48). Later the Pharisees plotted to kill Lazarus also, “because on account of him many of the Jews went away and _believed_ in Jesus” (12:11, emphasis supplied).

**Memorize your favorite verse in John 11. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`With whom on the spectrum of believing and unbelieving characters do you resonate most? Why?`

`Why aren’t signs the most effective means for belief?`