---
title:  The Lazarus Connection
date:  31/10/2022
---

#### inTerpret

The parable of the rich man and Lazarus (Luke 16:19–31) is the only parable in which Jesus used a proper name. He predicted that the rich man (representing the Pharisees) would not repent even if someone called Lazarus was resurrected from the dead.

Some time later, Jesus resurrected a man called Lazarus. Instead of repenting and believing in Jesus, the Pharisees sought to kill Him, and they plotted to kill Lazarus as well (John 12:9–11)! There are some uncanny parallels between the lessons around the Lazaruses. Many Jews, however, did believe in Jesus (11:45), but not all. Some who had shed crocodile tears at the tomb of Lazarus went and told the Pharisees what Jesus had done, and the Pharisees gathered the Sanhedrin and sentenced Jesus to death. The Pharisees refused to believe the messianic prophecies given by Moses and the prophets (John 5:39, 40, 45–47), and therefore they did not believe when Jesus resurrected one called Lazarus from the dead.

What happened to Lazarus while he was dead? Jesus told His disciples, “ ‘Our friend Lazarus sleeps, but I go that I may wake him up’ ” (John 11:11). When the disciples misunderstood what Jesus meant, He plainly told them, “ ‘Lazarus is dead’ ” (v. 14). Jesus did not say, “The soul of our brother Lazarus is in the Bosom of Abraham,” and He did not command Lazarus to “come down” but to “come forth”! When Lazarus came out of the tomb, he did not give any report about what had occurred while he was dead, because there is no memory in death. If the soul of Lazarus was in the Bosom of Abraham, it would have been cruel for Jesus to call him back from such a blessed place! Some fifty times in Scripture, death is compared to sleep (Dan. 12:2; Luke 8:52, 53; Acts 7:59, 60; 1 Thess. 4:15–17; 1 Cor. 15:6, 18, 20, 52).

Some people are terrified at the prospect of death. When we realize that death is like sleep, however, it loses its terror. Death is like a wasp without a stinger (1 Cor. 15:55) and a shadow without a substance (Ps. 23:4). Jesus promised, “This is the will of Him who sent Me, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in Him may have everlasting life; and I will raise him up at the last day” (John 6:40).

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How does your theology on the state of the dead affect your perspective on God’s character?`