---
title:  Safe in the Arms
date:  02/11/2022
---

#### inVite

John 11 assures us that if we walk with Jesus, we are safe in His arms in life or in death. When the disciples questioned the wisdom of going back to Judea, Jesus said “ ‘Are there not twelve hours in the day?’ ” (v. 9) What did Jesus mean by this strange expression? The answer is that Jesus compared the length of His ministry with a twelve-hour day. Earlier Jesus had said, “ ‘I must work the works of Him who sent Me while it is day; the night is coming when no one can work’ ” (v. 4). The symbolic “day” marked the period of his life where the work of the kingdom and Christ’s ministry could be done while the symbolic “night” represented the time when His ministry would be over and the “power of darkness” would take control of the Jewish leaders to have Him arrested and crucified (Luke 22:53).

As long as Jesus walked in His Father’s path in life, He was safe in His arms at death. During Christ’s ministry, His enemies attempted to arrest and kill Him on several occasions, but they were unable to because His Father protected Him; His hour had _not yet come_ (John 7:30; 8:20). However, on the way to Gethsemane Jesus declared that His hour _had come_ (John 17:1). Even in death, Jesus commended Himself to the safekeeping of His Father (Luke 23:46). Likewise, those who abide in Jesus are safe in His arms in life and in death, and nothing can harm them. Neither life nor death can separate them from the love of God (Rom. 8:38, 39).

When Jesus spoke to Mary, He did not say, “I have the power to resurrect Lazarus from the dead,” but rather, “ ‘I _am_ the resurrection, and the life!’ ” (John 11:25, emphasis supplied). “In Christ is life, original, unborrowed, underived.” (Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1898), 530.) Jesus not only has life, He is life! When we trust in Him, we _have_ everlasting life and the assurance of immortality. Jesus said, “ ‘Most assuredly, I say to you, he who believes in Me has everlasting life’ ” (John 6:47, emphasis supplied). Believers die in this life, but their life is “hidden with Christ in God” (Col. 3:3), and Christ will resurrect them at the last day (John 6:40). He who has the Son has _the_ life (1 John 5:12).

As long as we abide in Jesus, we have nothing to fear in life or death. Believers also have a day to minister in and a night where ministry ceases. As long as they are walking with Christ, they have nothing to fear, however, because God will protect them and bless their efforts. As with Christ, so with us: “So utterly was Christ emptied of self that He made no plans for Himself. He accepted God's plans for Him, and day by day the Father unfolded His plans. So should we depend upon God, that our lives may be the simple outworking of His will.” (White, _The Desire of Ages_, 208.)

`How is Jesus your Lord, whether in life or in death?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`