---
title:  The Awakener
date:  03/11/2022
---

#### inSight

“The words, ‘Mine hour is not yet come,’ point to the fact that every act of Christ’s life on earth was in fulfillment of the plan that had existed from the days of eternity. Before He came to earth, the plan lay out before Him, perfect in all its details. But as He walked among men, He was guided, step by step, by the Father’s will. He did not hesitate to act at the appointed time. With the same submission He waited until the time had come.” (Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1898), 147.)

“He who does the will of God, who walks in the path that God has marked out, cannot stumble and fall. The light of God’s guiding Spirit gives him a clear perception of his duty, and leads him aright till the close of his work. ‘But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because there is no light in him.’ He who walks in a path of his own choosing, where God has not called him, will stumble. For him day is turned into night, and wherever he may be, he is not secure. . . .

“Christ did not weep for Lazarus; for He was about to call him from the grave. He wept because many of those now mourning for Lazarus would soon plan the death of Him who was the resurrection and the life. But how unable were the unbelieving Jews rightly to interpret His tears! Some, who could see nothing more than the outward circumstances of the scene before Him as a cause for His grief, said softly, ‘Behold how He loved him!’ Others, seeking to drop the seed of unbelief into the hearts of those present, said derisively, ‘Could not this Man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even this man should not have died?’ If it were in Christ’s power to save Lazarus, why then did He suffer him to die? . . .

“When Christ raised to life the daughter of Jairus, He had said, ‘The damsel is not dead, but sleepeth.’ Mark 5:39. As she had been sick only a short time, and was raised immediately after death, the Pharisees declared that the child had not been dead; that Christ Himself had said she was only asleep. They had tried to make it appear that Christ could not cure disease, that there was foul play about His miracles. But in this case, none could deny that Lazarus was dead.” (White, _The Desire of Ages_, 527, 533–535.)

`After this week’s study of the chapter, what can be applied personally to your immediate context?
`
`What can be applied by you socially, collectively, and communally?`