---
title:  Judgment and the People of God
date:   03/05/2017
---

### Judgment and the People of God

`Compare 1 Peter 4:17–19 with Isaiah 10:11, 12 and Malachi 3:1–6. What are they saying in common?`

In all these passages, the process of judgment is portrayed as starting with the people of God. Peter even links the sufferings of his readers to the judgment of God. For him, the sufferings that his Christian readers are experiencing might be nothing less than the judgment of God, which begins with the household of God. “Therefore let those who suffer according to the will of God commit their souls to Him in doing good, as to a faithful Creator” (1 Pet. 4:19, NKJV).

`Read Luke 18:1–8. How does this help us understand God’s judgment?`

In biblical times, judgment was usually something highly desired. The picture of the poor widow in Luke 18:1–8 captures the wider attitude toward judgment. The widow knows that she will prevail in her case if only she can find a judge who will take her case. She has insufficient money and status to get her case heard, but she finally persuades the judge to hear it and to give her what she deserves. As Jesus says, “ ‘And shall God not avenge His own elect who cry out day and night to Him?’ ” (Luke 18:7, NKJV). Sin has brought evil into the world, and God’s people throughout the ages have long waited for God to make things right again. 

“ ‘Who shall not fear You, O Lord, and glorify Your name? For You alone are holy. For all nations shall come and worship before You, for Your judgments have been manifested’ ” (Rev. 15:4, NKJV).

`Think of all the evil in the world that has gone, and still goes, unpunished. Why, then, is the concept of justice and God’s righteous judgment so crucial for us as Christians? What hope do you get from the promise that justice will be done?`