---
title:  Further Thought
date:  25/06/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “God’s People Delivered,” pp. 635–645, in The Great Controversy; “Rejoicing in the Lord,” pp. 115–126, in Steps to Christ.

“The holy Son of God had no sins or griefs of his own to bear: he was bearing the griefs of others; for on him was laid the iniquity of us all. Through divine sympathy he connects himself with man, and as the representative of the race he submits to be treated as a transgressor. He looks into the abyss of woe opened for us by our sins, and proposes to bridge the gulf of man’s separation from God.”—Ellen G. White, Bible Echo and Signs of the Times, Aug. 1, 1892.

“Come, my brother, come just as you are, sinful and polluted. Lay your burden of guilt on Jesus, and by faith claim His merits. Come now, while mercy lingers; come with confession, come with contrition of soul, and God will abundantly pardon. Do not dare to slight another opportunity. Listen to the voice of mercy that now pleads with you to arise from the dead that Christ may give you light. Every moment now seems to connect itself directly with the destinies of the unseen world. Then let not your pride and unbelief lead you to still further reject offered mercy. If you do you will be left to lament at the last: ‘The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved.’ ”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 353.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“We see ourselves in relation to the cosmos,” wrote Francisco José Moreno, “and we are aware of our ignorance and final powerlessness; hence our insecurity. As a result, we fear.”—Between Faith and Reason: Basic Fear and the Human Condition (New York: Harper & Row, Publishers, 1977), p. 7. Compare this statement with what you studied this week in Ephesians 3:17–19. Discuss the differences between the two sentiments.`

`God promises us joy as believers in Jesus. Is joy the same as happiness? Should we always be happy? If we are not, is there something wrong with our Christian experience? What can the life of Jesus reveal that will help us understand the answers to these questions?`

`Discuss further this idea of being filled with “the fulness of God” (Eph. 3:19). What does that mean? How can we experience this in our lives?`

**Summary**: The covenant is not just some deep theological concept; instead, it defines the parameters of our saving relationship with Christ, a relationship that reaps us wonderful benefits now and at His return.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_My Life Today_, “Abundant Life in Christ,” p. 295;

_Sons and Daughters of God_, “God Promises Us a New Heart of Flesh,” p. 100.