---
title:  Outnumbered
date:  25/03/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 12**

**Outnumbered**

In Outnumbered: Incredible Stories of History’s Most Surprising Battlefield Upsets, Cormac O’Brien recounts the stories of armies that, though seriously outnumbered, still won. It tells of Hannibal’s army of 55,000 soldiers from Carthage defeating the “invincible” Roman army of 80,000 strong. It tells the amazing story of Alexander the Great’s Greek army defeating the empire of Persia.

We, too, are in a life-and-death battle with a wily foe. We are outnumbered, fighting against incredible odds. The forces of evil appear invincible. We seem to be facing certain loss and defeat appears inevitable. Victory seems out of sight. From a merely human perspective, it seems that Satan’s forces will overwhelm us.

But, thank God, though we are outnumbered, though the odds are (humanly speaking) stacked against us, though Satan’s attacks are vicious, through Jesus we will win at last. Summarized in a few words, the theme of the Bible’s last book, Revelation, is this: “Jesus Wins, Satan Loses.” The heart of this battle is outlined in Revelation 12, the focus of our study this week. This study will give a good preparation for understanding Revelation 14 and the three angels’ messages.

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 12 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Revelation 12:11 and 17. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `