---
title:  The Battle in Heaven
date:  26/03/2023
---

#### inGest

Revelation 12 presents a stream of dramatic episodes—snapshots of the agelong conflict between good and evil that began in heaven but will end here on earth. These episodes take us down the stream of time from the opening scene of Satan’s rebellion in heaven to his vicious attacks on God’s people in the last days.

Revelation 12:7–9 describes this cosmic conflict between good and evil. The freedom to choose is a fundamental principle of God’s government, both in heaven and on earth. God did not create robots, either in heaven or on earth. Created in the image of God, we as humans can make moral choices.

The power of choice is closely aligned with the ability to love. If you take away the power of choice, you destroy the ability to love, for love can never be forced or coerced. Love is an expression of free will. Every angel in heaven was faced with the choice either to respond to God’s love or to turn away in selfishness, arrogance, and pride. Just as the heavenly angels were confronted with an eternal choice, Revelation presents each of us with eternal choices in earth’s final conflict.

There has never been neutrality in the great controversy (see Luke 11:23), and there will be none in earth’s final war. Just as every angel chose Jesus’ side or Lucifer’s side, all humanity will be led to their final, irreversible choice at the end of time. Who will have our allegiance, our worship, our obedience? This has always been the issue with humanity, and it will be so, however more dramatically, in the final crisis of earth’s history.

But here is the incredibly good news: Revelation 12 describes Christ’s triumph in the conflict, and all we have to do, using our free will, is choose to be on His side, the winning side. How wonderful to be able to choose a side in a battle that you know, beforehand, will be the winner!

From the start, Satan sought to destroy Christ (see Rev. 12:4, 5), yet failed in every attempt. At Christ’s birth, for instance, an angel warned Joseph and Mary about Herod’s vicious plans, and they fled to Egypt. Jesus faced Satan’s most enticing temptations in the wilderness with an “It is written” and thus found protection in the Word of God. In His death on the cross, He revealed the magnitude of His love and delivered us from the penalty of sin’s condemnation. In His resurrection, as our living high priest, He delivers us from the power of sin in our lives.

In the Bible a rod is a symbol of dominion or rulership. Specifically in Revelation 12:5, a rod of iron is a symbol of an unbreakable, all-powerful, invincible rulership. Jesus faced every single temptation that we will ever experience, but He came out a conqueror. The devil is a defeated foe. Christ has triumphed over him in His life, death, and resurrection. Because Jesus has already defeated the devil on Calvary’s cross, we can be victorious, too. Christ’s victory over Satan is complete, but the great controversy between Christ and Satan is not yet over.

Nevertheless, when we accept by faith what Christ has done for us, our sin debt is canceled and our sins forgiven. We stand perfect before God, covered by Christ’s righteousness. As Paul writes, we are “found in Him, not having [our] own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith” (Phil. 3:9). If we are forgiven, there is nothing that we can be accused of. Jesus conquered and overcame forever the worst that sin and evil could do to Him. He made the full assault on evil and overcame it. When we accept Jesus by faith, His victory is ours.

Journal:

`What does the conflict of Revelation 12 imply about the reality of free will and free choice?`

`Why is the assurance of salvation, because of Christ’s victory over Satan, so crucial to us?`

` `