---
title:  The Woman and the Remnant
date:  27/03/2023
---

#### inTerpret

The 1,260 days in Revelation 12:6 are parallel to the time, times, and half a time in Revelation 12:14. This same time prophecy describing the same time period is found in Daniel 7:25, Revelation 11:2, 3, and Revelation 13:5. Because these are prophetic symbols (a literal woman with wings did not go into the wilderness), we apply prophetic time, the day-year principle (see, for instance, Numbers 14:34 and Ezekiel 4:4–6), to these prophecies. This means, simply, that one prophetic day equals one year. Commenting on this same prophetic period of time in Revelation 11:2, the Andrews Study Bible states, “Historicist interpreters, therefore, have generally understood the period of 1,260 prophetic days to mean 1,260 literal years running from A.D. 538 to 1798” (p. 1,673 comments on Revelation 11:2).

A corrupt church, together with a corrupt state, oppressed, persecuted, and at times slaughtered God’s faithful people. This fierce, satanic persecution of Bible-believing Christians was an extension of the great controversy between good and evil. Coming out of the darkness of the Middle Ages, at the time of the Reformation in 1517, men and women were faced with a choice. Would they be faithful to the Word of God, or would they accept the teachings of priests and prelates? Truth triumphed once again, and God had a people who were faithful to Him in the face of mighty opposition.

There are some fascinating and extremely encouraging expressions of God’s care in these verses. Revelation 12:6 uses the phrase, “a place prepared by God,” Revelation 12:14 says the woman was “nourished” in the wilderness, and Revelation 12:16 declares that “the earth helped the woman.” At times of severe persecution, God provided for His church. As He did then, so He will do for His end-time remnant.

The devil has been at war with Christ since his rebellion in heaven (Rev. 12:7). Satan’s purpose then and his purpose now is to seize control of the universe (see Isa. 14:12–14). The focus of his attention in the last days of earth’s history is upon God’s people. Revelation 12:17 emphatically declares that the dragon (Satan) was angry with the woman (the church) and went to make war with the rest of her offspring. This expression, “the rest of her offspring” is translated “the remnant” in the King James Version. God’s remnant remains loyal to Christ, obedient to His truth, and faithful to His mission.

In Revelation 12:17 Satan (the dragon) is angry with the woman, God’s church. The devil is furious with a people who keep the commandments of God, and he will do everything he can to destroy them. Eventually he instigates a decree so that they cannot buy or sell and will be imprisoned and face death (see Rev. 13:14–17). If Satan cannot destroy Christ, he will attempt to destroy the object of Christ’s deepest affection: His church. Earth’s last war is not centered on the various conflicts in any specific region of the world; it is fixed on the minds of God’s people scattered all around the globe. It is a battle between two opposing forces, Christ and Satan. Again, no one is neutral.

The central question in this final war is “Who has our loyalty? Where is our allegiance?” Heaven calls for believers who are so captivated by Christ’s love, redeemed by His grace, committed to His purposes, empowered by His Spirit, and obedient to His commands that they are willing to face death itself for His cause.

Our world is headed for a major crisis, but in Jesus, by Jesus, through Jesus, and because of Jesus, our victory is assured as long as we stay connected to Him, which we do by faith—a faith that leads to obedience. It all comes down to our own choice.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do you see the reality of Revelation 12:17 played out in your own life, in your own Christian experience? In other words, in what ways do you find the great controversy being played out in your own life?`

` `