---
title:  Accepting Jesus’ Victory
date:  29/03/2023
---

#### inVite

As depicted in the Bible, Jesus has never lost a battle against Satan. He is the mighty conqueror, the victor over the powers of evil. However, it is one thing to believe that Jesus was victorious over the temptations of Satan, but it is quite another to believe that Christ’s victory is our victory as well.

Although the battle still rages on earth, Satan has lost. Period. This is true not only of Christ’s ultimate victory at the climax of human history but also in our battle over the principalities and powers of evil in our personal lives. Some Christians live in frustrated defeat. They hope for victory over some attitude or habit but never grasp the reality of Christ’s victory for them in their personal lives.

Seven times in Revelation’s messages to the seven churches we find the expression “he who overcomes.” In Revelation 12:11 we again find this concept of overcoming. The word “overcome” in the original language of the text is nikao. It can be translated as “to conquer, to prevail, to triumph, or to come through victoriously.” Revelation 12:11 affirms that it is possible for us to be overcomers “by the blood of the Lamb.”

In Revelation 5:6, in prophetic vision, John gazes into heaven and sees “a Lamb as though it had been slain.” Christ’s sacrifice is the focus of all of heaven’s attention. There is no better demonstration of the infinite, unfathomable love of God than the cross.

When we accept by faith what Christ has done for us, our debt is canceled and we stand perfect in the sight of God. Our sins are forgiven (Col. 1:14, Eph. 1:7, Col. 2:14), and the “accuser of our brethren” has been “cast down” (Rev. 12:10). We are redeemed, victorious, and saved, not because of our own merits, but because of Christ’s victories in our behalf.

Journal:

`Meditate on Revelation 12 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What personal encouragement should you get from the fact that your accuser has been “cast down”?`

`How do you see Jesus differently in light of these last days?`

` `