---
title:  Further Thought
date:  24/11/2023
---

Read Arthur White, “A Few Days at Long Point,” Ellen G. White: The Australian Years: 1891–1900, vol. 4, pp. 100–104.

The Gospel writers recorded examples of Jesus’ practice of building bridges with people from other cultures in order to save them (Matt. 8:28–34, Mark 5:1–20). Likewise, we also are called to make friends and minister to people from other cultures, as well. Christ’s death was for everyone, regardless of race, nationality, wealth, or background. This is a point we must never forget. “And He Himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for the whole world” (1 John 2:2, NKJV).

“Men and women are not fulfilling the design of God, when they simply express affection for their own family circle, . . . while they exclude those from their love whom they could comfort and bless by relieving their necessities. . . .

“When the Lord bids us do good for others outside our home, He does not mean that our affection for home shall become diminished, and that we shall love our kindred or our country less because He desires us to extend our sympathies. But we are not to confine our affection and sympathy within four walls, and enclose the blessing that God has given us so that others will not be benefited with us in its enjoyment.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, October 15, 1895.

The responsibility given to us to be a blessing to those outside our comfort zone, whether they are from another culture or just a helpless person, is a nonnegotiable mandate from Jesus Christ Himself (Acts 1:8, Mark 11:17).

**Discussion Questions**:

`What is your own comfort zone, and why must you be willing to step outside of it when necessary?`

`What are the implications of the incident when Jesus was called “ ‘a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners’ ” (Matt. 11:19, NIV)? What was Jesus doing that would have brought that accusation, and what does it teach us about mission?`

`To what extent should a Christian engage in the celebrations of nonbelievers? How might Christians do that without compromising biblical principles?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

My Life Today, “My Spirituality Strengthened and My Health Improves,” p. 246;\
The Ministry of Healing, “Healing of the Soul,” pp. 73–79.