---
title:  Jesus and the Book of Revelation
date:   14/04/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
1 Corinthians 10:1–11; Revelation 12:1–17; Revelation 19:11–15; Ephesians 1:20.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin. I will give that person the right to sit with me on my throne. In the same way, I had victory. Then I sat down with my Father on his throne’ ” (Revelation 3:21, NIrV). 

Do a quick reading of the New Testament, and you will see an important truth: the New Testament is connected to the Old Testament. Again and again, New Testament writers use Bible verses from the Old Testament. Jesus did the same thing. He often talked about how different things in the Old Testament needed to happen (read Mark 14:49). 

We see this same connection between the Old Testament and the book of Revelation too. In fact, it is very difficult for the book of Revelation to make any sense without help from the Old Testament. More than any other book in the Old Testament, the book of Daniel helps us to understand the book of Revelation the most. That is one reason why we often study these two books together.   

The book of Revelation uses many verses from the Old Testament. These verses show us Jesus. The book of Revelation is all about Jesus. It shows us the things Jesus did for His people and the things He will do for us in the last days. Any study about the last days must put Jesus at the center. The book of Revelation does exactly that. This week, we will look at Jesus in the book of Revelation.