---
title:  Topics in The Book of Revelation
date:   15/04/2018
---

Both Daniel and Revelation can be divided into two separate topics: (1) history and (2) things that will happen in the last days. Both topics are connected very closely together in each book. We can look at the record of history in each book as an example of what will happen in the last days. So, our study of what happened in Old Testament history can help us to understand what will happen in our time. This important rule of Bible study can be used with other books of the Bible too. 

`Read 1 Corinthians 10:1–11. How do we see in these verses the rule of Bible study we just talked about?` 

Last week we learned that some of the stories in Daniel showed things that would happen in the last days. (Examples include Daniel 3:6, 15, 27 and Daniel 6:6–9, 21, 22.) When we study these stories, we understand more about some of the things God’s people will face in the last days. The book of Revelation tells us more about these things. Maybe the most important idea that the stories in Daniel teach us is that God will save us in the end. Revelation also teaches us that God will give His followers victory. 

We can divide the book of Revelation into separate topics, chapter by chapter: chapters 1–11 deal with the topic of history. Chapters 13–22 deal with the topic of things that will happen in the last days. There are, of course, some chapters that may belong to both topics, as we shall see. 

`Read Revelation 12:1–17. Where should we put this chapter? Should we put it under the topic of history? Or should we put it under the topic of things that will happen in the last days? Explain.`

As we can see, Revelation 12 belongs to both topics: history and things that will happen in the last days. Why? Because chapter 12 talks about many different wars in history: (1) Satan fights against God and is thrown out of heaven (Revelation 12:7–9); (2) Satan attacks Baby Jesus (Revelation 12:4); and (3) Satan attacks God’s church (Revelation 12:14–16). After this discussion about history, Revelation talks about the attack on God’s people in the last days (Revelation 12:17).