---
title:  Pictures of Jesus
date:   16/04/2018
---

Read the verses below. Some of the verses give different names for Jesus. Some of the verses describe Jesus and the things He has done, is doing, and will do for us. What does each of these verses teach us about Jesus?

`Revelation 1:5`

`Revelation 1:18`

`Revelation 5:8`

`Revelation 19:11–15`

`Revelation 21:6`

These verses are just a few of the many verses in Revelation that show us Jesus and what He does. Jesus is the Lamb. This picture of Jesus as the Lamb helps us think about His first coming when He came to earth and died for our sins. “The Jews killed lambs when they left Egypt. Christ [Jesus] is our lamb. He has already been killed as a gift on the altar to God for us” (1 Corinthians 5:7, NLV). Jesus says that He is “ ‘the Living One. I was dead, but look, I am alive forever. I have power over death and hell’ ” (Revelation 1:18, NLV). This verse helps us remember Jesus’ death and His waking up again from the dead. “[Jesus] said to them, ‘It is written that Christ [the Savior that God chose to die for our sins] should suffer and be raised from the dead after three days’ ” (Luke 24:46, NLV). Revelation 19:11–15 shows Jesus as a powerful King at the Second Coming. At that time, He will come back to this earth in power and glory to judge. “ ‘The Son of Man will come again with his Father’s glory and with his angels. At that time, he will reward everyone for what he has done’ ” (Matthew 16:27, ICB). 

`As Christians, we believe in Jesus’ life, His death, His waking up from the dead, and His Second Coming. How can we learn every day to make these beliefs the most important part of our lives and the reason for every choice we make?`