---
title:  Jesus’ Work for Us Right Now in Heaven
date:   17/04/2018
---

We learned that the book of Revelation can be divided into two different topics: (1) history and (2) the things that will happen in the last days. But there is another topic found in Revelation, and it deals with the Hebrew sanctuary. The Hebrew sanctuary was the place where Jesus was worshiped in Old Testament times before Solomon’s temple was built. The sanctuary topic can be seen in Revelation’s other two topics: (1) history and (2) things that happen in the last days.

The Hebrew sanctuary begins with the courtyard. The courtyard was the place outside the sanctuary. Here we find the altar where animals were killed. These animals showed Jesus’ death for our sins. After the animal died, the priest went into the first room in the sanctuary. Jesus did this same thing after He went back to heaven. He, too, went into the first room in the sanctuary in heaven (Revelation 1:13).

`Read Revelation 4:1, 2. What does the open door mean? Where does the action described in these verses happen? Read also Acts 2:33; Acts 5:31; Hebrews 10:12, 13; and Revelation 12:5 for the answer.`

Jesus was made our High Priest soon after He went back to heaven. A high priest is someone who works to save His people. As our High Priest, Jesus offers His blood to wash away the sins of everyone who by faith believes in Him. God the Father made Jesus our High Priest in the Holy Room in the temple in heaven. God opened the door to this room for us because of Jesus’ victory on the cross.

`Read Revelation 11:19. Here we find John watching in vision as the temple in heaven is opened. John sees the ark. The ark was a special piece of furniture that held the Ten Commandments. The ark was put in the second room of the Hebrew sanctuary on earth. Why is it so special that John could see the ark?`

The ark in heaven helps us to think about the Most Holy Room in the temple in heaven. The ark also shows us Jesus’ work for us in that second room. His work gives us hope that all heaven is “working together to help God’s people to be loyal to Him in the last days.”—Ellen G. White, My Life Today, page 307, adapted.
