---
title:  'Jesus in The Book of Revelation: Part 1'
date:   18/04/2018
---

Everything in the book of Revelation, from its topics to its message, has one purpose: to show us Jesus.

That is why the book of Revelation begins with these words: “The things that are written in the Book are made known by Jesus Christ” (Revelation 1:1, NLV). The name of the book, “Revelation,” means “something that is made known.” In Greek, we would write the name of the book as “Apocalypsis Iesou Christou.” This wording can be written as: (1) “things made known to us that come from Jesus” or (2) “things made known to us about Jesus” (Revelation 1:2). Also, the name “Revelation” means that we are meant to understand the book. So, people who say Revelation is too hard to understand are mistaken. After all, why would Jesus include the book of Revelation in the Bible if we were never meant to understand it? That idea makes no sense!

`What does Revelation 1:1-8 teach us about Jesus?`

Jesus first appears in the book of Revelation as “the ruler of the kings of the earth” (Revelation 1:5, ERV). Near the end of the book, John describes Jesus as “the God who rules over all [people]” (Revelation 19:15, NIrV). This verse shows us that our loving Lord and Savior has full control over everything that happens on this earth. This fact can give us deep peace when life seems confusing and when nothing that happens seems to make any sense to us.

In Revelation 1:5, John shows us clearly that Jesus is our Savior. John writes, “[Jesus] is the One Who loves us and has set us free from our sins by His blood” (NLV). This verse helps us think about Jesus’ death for us on the cross. His death cleanses us from all sin. Jesus’ death makes us right with God. Jesus’ death makes us holy (1 Corinthians 6:11). In Revelation 1:1–8, we find the promise that Jesus saves us. He is the One who washes away our sins. That is something we never could do for ourselves.

`What does Revelation 1:7, 8 teach us about Jesus?`

Jesus will come again. Everyone alive on the earth will see Him come back. Then Jesus will put an end to suffering, pain, and death for His people. 

`How can Revelation 1:8 give us hope in bad times?`