---
title:  'Jesus in The Book of Revelation: Part 2'
date:   19/04/2018
---

`Read Revelation 1:10–18. What does Jesus say about Himself in these verses?` 

In these verses, Jesus stands in the first room of the sanctuary in heaven. The sanctuary in heaven is the place where God is worshiped. When John sees Jesus appear here, John falls at Jesus’ feet in fear. Jesus comforts John. Jesus tells John not to be afraid. Then Jesus tells John that He, Jesus, is the First and the Last. The word “First” comes from the Greek word “Alpha.” The word “Last” comes from the Greek word “Omega.” These names of Jesus show us that Jesus is God and He lives forever. Later, Jesus talks about His death and His coming back to life from the dead and the hope that it brings. Jesus has the keys to death and hell. Jesus tells John this truth so John will know that Jesus has power over death and the grave. Jesus tells John the same thing He told Martha when her brother Lazarus died: “ ‘I am the One Who raises [wakes up] the dead and gives them life. Anyone who puts his trust in Me will live again, even if he dies. Anyone who lives and has put his trust in Me will never die. Do you believe this?’ ” (John 11:25, 26, NLV). 

Jesus does with us the same thing He does with Martha and then with John. Jesus reminds us of the hope we have in Him. He will wake us up from the dead. All our hopes as Christians center on this precious promise from Jesus. Without this hope, what real hope do we have?

`Read Revelation 22:7, 12, 13. What do these verses show us about Jesus?`

“Jesus is the Alpha [the First] and the Omega [the Last]. He is the Genesis [the Start] of the Old Testament and the Revelation [the things God makes known to us about the last days] in the New Testament. The teachings in both the Old and New Testaments show us Jesus. Jesus’ obedience brings Adam and God back together again in peace and friendship. Jesus defeated all the tricks of Satan who tried to lead Jesus into sin. Jesus won the victory over sin where Adam failed.”—Ellen G. White Comments [ideas], The SDA Bible Commentary [explanation], volume 6, pages 1092, 1093, adapted. Yes, Jesus is the Start and the Finish. He made us in the beginning. He will make us new in the end.