---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   20/04/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “The book of Revelation makes known to us many things and mysteries about God. The name Revelation itself goes against the false idea that humans cannot understand this book. A ‘revelation’ means something that God makes known. The Lord Himself made known to His servant John the mysteries that are found in the book of Revelation. It is Jesus’ plan that these mysteries shall be open to everyone to study and understand. John wrote the truths in the book of Revelation to the people living in the last days of this earth’s history. John also wrote these truths to those people living in his own time. Some things in Revelation happen in the past. Some of the things in Revelation are happening now. Some of the things in Revelation will happen at the end of the big war between God and Satan. Some of the things that happen in Revelation show us the earth made new and the victory and joys of the people that Jesus saves.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 584, adapted. 

We looked at many verses this week in the book of Revelation that show us just how much the book is about Jesus. Read Revelation 3:14; Revelation 5:5, 6; Revelation 7:14; and Revelation 19:11–16 for more verses about Jesus. When we put these verses about Jesus all together, we get a powerful picture of Jesus and everything He means to us. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	The New Testament writers use many verses from the Old Testaments in their writings. What does that fact mean for us? What should that fact tell us about how important the Bible is to our faith? How can we protect ourselves against anyone who tries to say that the Bible does not have much power in our lives or in the life of the church anymore?`

`2.	Read over the book of Revelation. Find as many verses as you can about Jesus. Share the verses in class. What else do these verses show you about Jesus’ work for us right now, His power, and His holy life? What comfort do these verses give you?`

`3.	We live on a planet where death happens every day. How can we learn to find hope and comfort in the promise that Jesus won the victory over death?`