---
title:  Trusting Only in Jesus to Save Us
date:   31/01/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Philippians 3:1–6; John 9; Philippians 3:9–16; Galatians 2:20.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “I want to know Christ [Jesus] better. Yes, I want to know the power that raised him [woke him up] from the dead. I want to join him in his sufferings. I want to become like [much the same as] him by sharing in his death. Then by God’s grace [love and forgiveness] I will rise [wake up] from the dead” (Philippians 3:10, 11, NIrV).

Do you believe that God’s love and forgiveness really saves you? Some people have a hard time believing this Bible truth. They believe that God’s mercy isn’t enough to save them. They think they must add their own good behavior to God’s saving gift. In Paul’s day, some Christians believed that they needed to be circumcised to be saved. To be circumcised means to cut off the tip of the skin at the end of the male sex parts. In Bible times, this act was a special sign that showed that the Jews belonged to God. After Jesus woke up from the dead, baptism replaced circumcision or cutting off the tip of the male sex parts. But some Jewish Christians had trouble accepting this idea. They con­tinued to believe that they must cut off the skin for God to save them. With strong words, Paul argues against this false idea. He says, “But we are truly God's people. And it is not because someone has circumcised us. It is God’s own Spirit that leads us to worship God. We thank God because of what Christ Jesus has done for us. We know that it is not human ideas that can save us” (Philippians 3:3, EASY).