---
title:  Rejoicing in the Lord
date:   01/02/2026
---

`Read Philippians 3:1–3. What advice and warnings does Paul give in these verses? What does Paul say about the followers of Jesus?`

In these verses, Paul talks about one of the most im­portant topics in his letter: joy. Paul will give his readers many reasons for being happy. Most important, we must trust in Jesus, and not in ourselves: “We don’t trust in ourselves or anything we can do. We take [feel] pride only in Christ Jesus” (Philippians 3:3, ERV).

Paul also warns his readers to be careful. This warning is strong. We don’t read about this warning anywhere else in the Bible. The Philippians knew very well the danger that Paul was talking about. Do you see that Paul isn’t warning the Philippians about three separate things? Paul is warning them about one thing three different times. The warning is about a group of false teachers that Paul talks about in three different ways.

The Bible often named evil Israelites “dogs” (Philippians 3:2; compare Psalm 22:16; Isaiah 56:10; Matthew 7:6; 2 Peter 2:21, 22). False teachers were included in this group. Paul says these false teachers are evil workers. Paul warns the Philippians to “watch out for false teachers” (Philippians 3:2, NLV). Why? Because these teachers want the non-Jewish Christians to look and act the same as Jewish people. Paul’s words show us that these Jewish teachers tried to force the non-Jewish Christians to become circumcised to be members of the church. This teaching went against the Jerusalem Meeting (read Acts 15).

Paul told his readers to be happy in Jesus. Their joy would help them in their troubles. Joy also would put a stop to the false teachings (Philippians 3:1; compare Philippians 4:4).

God wants us to find joy in our lives. The Bible teaches us how to have true happiness and joy. We must (1) accept God’s mercy (Psalm 31:7); (2) trust in God (Psalm 5:11); (3) accept God’s blessings (Psalm 9:14); (4) obey His law (Psalm 119:14); (5) keep the Sabbath (Isaiah 58:13, 14); (6) believe the Bible, God’s Word (Psalm 119:162); and (7) teach our children to follow the Lord (Proverbs 23:24, 25).

`What things can you rejoice about?`