---
title:  Paul’s Past
date:   02/02/2026
---

Many Christians talk about their lives in two parts: life before and after they accepted Jesus. Paul does the same thing in Philippians 3. We may sometimes say that people who haven’t accepted Jesus are “good people.” In the eyes of most people, these non-Christians are good. But when we compare their lives to God’s law, no one is good. Not even Christians.

`In Philippians 3:4–6, Paul talks about many things in his old life. These things filled his heart with pride in the past. What are these things? What are the “good” things in your own life (now and in the past)?`

Paul compares two groups of people: false teachers and non-Jewish Christians. The false teachers are teaching things that aren’t true. The non-Jewish Christians trust fully in Jesus to save them. They don’t trust in their own good behavior to earn God’s forgiveness or favor (read Hebrews 6:1 and Hebrews 9:14; compare Romans 2:25–29). Paul’s past was filled with honors. But none of those things saved him. Worse, they filled Paul’s heart with pride. He was “blind” for a while to how much he needed Jesus.

Let’s look at Paul’s past. He was born a Jew. He was from the family group of Benjamin. Some of the most important cities in Israel belonged to this family group. Paul knew the Hebrew language. He also was a student of Gamaliel, a famous teacher (Acts 22:3; Acts 26:4, 5). Paul was a Pharisee or Jewish spiritual leader. So, Paul knew about the law and how Jewish people obeyed it.

Paul loved the law so much. So, he attacked Christians because he thought they didn’t respect the Jewish law or way of life. Then Paul learned that the law had a deeper meaning. The law asked more from him than he could give. Without Jesus, Paul understood that he was guilty of breaking the law.

`Compare Romans 7:7–12 with Matthew 5:21, 22, 27, 28. What do both Jesus and Paul say about the law? Why is faith in Jesus (Philippians 3:9), and not in the law, the only thing that makes us holy? Look at the question this way: How well do you keep the law? (At least, in the way that Jesus said we should keep it.) What should your answer tell you about why we need Jesus to save us?`