---
title:  The Things That Matter
date:   03/02/2026
---

As we saw yesterday, Paul was filled with pride about many things. But these things made it hard for Paul to have faith. These things “blinded” Paul to his need for Jesus.

After Paul accepted Jesus, he saw things in a different light. He stopped feeling pride in his heart because he was a Jew. Now he was filled with pride that he was a member of God’s family in heaven.

Jesus “came down from heaven. So, He can talk to us about heaven. Jesus knows the spiritual danger we are in on this earth. He came to remove the sin from our hearts. He came to make us holy. Then we can sit next to Him on His throne in heaven. Jesus warns us about the danger of loving useless objects in this life. Jesus helps us to think about heaven and not the things on this earth. Then we won’t waste our time, talents, and life on things that are not important.”—Ellen G. White, in The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, July 1, 1890, adapted.

During New Testament times, Paul became famous fast. But when Paul was on the road to Damascus, he saw Jesus (Acts 9). Jesus was covered with bright shining glory. When Paul saw Jesus, he became blind. When he was blind, that’s when Paul finally saw the truth about Jesus.

`John 9 tells the story of another man who was blind and then saw Jesus clearly. Jesus says why He came to this earth: “ ‘I came so that those [people] who are blind may see. And I came so that those [people] who see may become blind’ ” (John 9:39, WE). What does Jesus mean in these verses? How may we obey this important rule in our lives?`

What is more important than everlasting life? Nothing. Sad to say, the ideas and things of this life often make us blind to this Bible truth. The things of this life (Matthew 13:22; Luke 4:5, 6; 1 John 2:16) will fill our hearts and minds if we let them. So, we must fill our hearts and minds with the things that are worth much in God’s eyes. What are those things? We must become the same as Jesus in our hearts. We also must work with God to save people.

`The things of this life can “blind” us to Bible truth and to what is really important. What will help us to keep our eyes on the things that really matter?`