---
title:  The Faith of Jesus
date:   04/02/2026
---

Paul had an amazing experience on the road to Damascus. He traded his old life for a new life in Jesus. “Yes, now that I know Christ Jesus as my Lord, that is the most valuable thing. Nothing else is important at all. I have thrown everything else away, so that I can serve Christ. All those other things are like [the same as] dirt to me. I think about them like that, so that I can have Christ. I want to be united [joined together] with him. Because I believe in Christ, God accepts me as right with him” (Philippians 3:8, 9, EASY).

`Paul says “I want to be united with” Jesus. What do you think Paul means? Also read Ephesians 1:4; 2 Corinthians 5:21; Colossians 2:9; and Galatians 2:20 for the answer.`

Many people have tried to explain Paul’s words. The best explanation comes from Paul himself in his letter to the Ephesians. In this letter, Paul talks about God’s saving plan: “God will make that plan happen when the time is completely right. At that time, he will bring everything together so that Christ rules [controls] all of them. That includes the things that are in heaven, and the things that are on earth” (Ephesians 1:10, EASY). From the start, God’s plan ­in­cluded His wish to join the family in heaven and the human family together. Paul explains how that plan will happen: “Because we belong to Christ, God makes us right with himself. He makes us his own special people. He makes us free from the power of sin” (1 Corinthians 1:30, EASY).

What does it mean to be in Christ Jesus? When we are in Christ Jesus, we are born again. God makes us wise. He makes us holy. He gets us ready for heaven. Finally, at the Second Coming, Jesus will change our bodies. Jesus does everything for us and in us. When we accept Jesus into our hearts, we have everything we need.

`Read Philippians 3:9. Paul compares two things in this verse. What are they? Why is this idea important to remember always?`

Jesus gives us His saving faith. If we are in Jesus, He lives in us (Galatians 2:20) and helps us to obey. His faith gives us life because we believe in Him.