---
title:  Knowing Jesus
date:   05/02/2026
---

`Read Philippians 3:10–16. What are some of the ideas that Paul talks about in these verses?`

For sure, nothing is more important than our knowing Jesus. When we know Jesus, He will accept us (read Matthew 7:21–23). So, how do we know Him? We know Jesus because the Bible tells us about Him. When we read the Bible and live Bible truth, we know Jesus. We can’t know Jesus face-to-face, as His followers did. But look what happened to them: they didn’t understand His words. So, we need the Holy Spirit to help us to understand and lead us (read John 16:13). The more we know Jesus, the closer we become like Him. Jesus helps us to wake up from the dead (Philippians 3:10, 11). Then we live a new life in Him (Romans 6:4).

We also come close to Jesus in our hearts when we suffer as He suffered (Philippians 3:10). Every test, hard time, and painful experience helps us know what Jesus suffered for us. Then we better understand Jesus and His plan to save us.

Paul compares our experience with Jesus to a race. He says, “ I am like [the same as] a runner who wants to reach the end of the race. I run straight towards that place, so that I can win God's gift. Because I belong to Christ Jesus, God has called me to live with him in heaven. That is God’s gift to me at the end of the race” (Philippians 3:14, EASY). Jesus died, woke up from the dead, and went to heaven. In the same way, God invites us to accept the same reward: everlasting life.

Of course, we continue to wait for the day when Jesus will change us (Philippians 3:21). But when we know Him, we invite Him to live in our hearts every day. Then we will become the same as Jesus in every possible way that we can now. Paul wanted this experience more than anything else. If we want it, too, we must act the same as if we are in a race. Runners pay no attention to who is behind them or how many miles they’ve run already. They think only about the prize that waits for them at the end of the race.

`Why is it important for you not to keep looking back at your mistakes and sins? Why must you look ahead to everything that God promises you right now in Jesus?`