---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   06/02/2026
---

“Do you want to look the same as Jesus? Do you want to live with God in your heart? If you want to serve God, you must give everything you have to Jesus. Everything you do, you must do to honor Him, too. Jesus won’t accept half of your heart. He wants the whole heart. You must learn what it means to give up everything for Him and to Him. Study the Bible. Learn what the Bible means. Obey its teachings. When you do these things, you may become an excellent Christian. Day after day, God works with you. He will make you holy and perfect. He will help you pass the final test at the end of time. Every day, each Christian is part of an amazing experiment. We show everyone in heaven and on earth what the Good News about Jesus can do for sinners.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 483, adapted.

“As we wait for Jesus to come back, we must tell everyone to look to Jesus. We must give the last message of God’s mercy to everyone on earth. This message will show people God’s love. As God’s children, our lives must show God’s glory. We show God’s glory when we show how God’s love and forgiveness saves us and changes us for the better.

“Jesus is the light. His light must shine in everything we do and say. Then our words and behavior will be holy.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 415, 416, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think some more about rejoicing in the Lord. Why is it so important to remember the love, saving power, and the good things God does for us? How can these things help you during the hard times in life?`

`Without God’s love and forgiveness, we can’t obey Him. Why are these gifts so important as we wait for Jesus to come back? For sure, our good behavior doesn’t save us. At the same time, can we obey God if we don't love His rules?`