---
title:  Who Is the Man of Romans 7?
date:   18/11/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “Now we are delivered from the law, that being dead wherein we were held; that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter” (Rom. 7:6).

**Introduction**: Rom. 7:6; Rev. 14:6

**Faith or Fortune?**

The many parables of Christ outline to us God’s methods of salvation despite our being hopelessly lost or misdirected. Neither the lost sheep (Luke 15:3–7) nor the lost coin (verses 8–10) could find themselves but were rescued by the owner. The rich young ruler went away sorrowing, and he typifies those of us who allow fame, riches, and fortune to engross our minds so that we cannot travel through “the eye of the needle” because of our “baggage.” We don’t want to give up what we have, discount all our riches, and follow Christ by faith, so we reject our faith and follow our fortune.

The good news is that Christ’s righteousness is enough for us. He saves us, justifies us, and sanctifies us. It is because of God’s righteousness that we live (Rom. 1:17). We need to accept by faith the free grace given to us. We accept the salvation of Christ and by faith hold to the tenets of salvation that deliver us from the bondage of sin that so easily besets us and causes us to do other than what we know is the correct thing to do.

Just as the apostle Paul and other Bible worthies did, fellow seekers of truth like Martin Luther, Huss, Jerome, John Calvin, and others of the Middle Ages and Reformation era came to the realization that we are saved from sin and death through the merits of Jesus Christ. We too must understand that our salvation is by faith in the One who died that we might have everlasting life. It is also our duty, after understanding this salvation, to spread this “everlasting gospel,” this special message of Revelation 14:6, to everyone within our spheres of influence as we seek to prepare a people to be ready for the second coming of Christ. We believe that the Holy Scriptures are the foundation of our faith and the inspired revelation of God to man and that salvation through Christ is by grace alone, through faith in His blood shed on the cross.

An old hymn says:

I would not work my soul to save,

For that my Lord alone has done;

But I would work like any slave

Because I’m loved by God’s dear Son.

As we study the lesson this week, may we contemplate the Christ of the Cross, the One who covers us with His righteousness, and through whom we stand perfect before God, forgiven of our sins, assured of salvation, saved from death, upheld by His victorious right arm, and saved by faith.

_Mark Henry, Phillipsburgh, New Jersey, USA_