---
title:  The Man of Sin
date:   19/11/2017
---

**Evidence**: Rom. 7:16–20

The tale is told of a scorpion who desired to cross a river but could not swim. The scorpion saw Mr. Turtle and requested a ride on his back.

“Oh, no,” said Mr. Turtle, “I know you. You carry a deadly sting, and I don’t trust you.”

“Please, Mr. Turtle. I promise I will not hurt you. Just let me ride on your tough shell. I will not sting you.”

After much pleading and faithful promises from the scorpion, Mr. Turtle consented. He took the scorpion across the river. As they reached the shore, the scorpion stung Mr. Turtle’s soft neck.

“You promised that you wouldn’t hurt me,” lamented Mr. Turtle.

“I am sorry,” responded the scorpion. “I can’t help it; it’s just my nature.”

Like the scorpion, the unregenerate human being is unable to stop sinning. He desires to live the righteousness contained in the law but does the very evil he knows to be wrong. Is it only the unregenerate person that faces such a challenge? Doesn’t the Christian as well? Although the Christian still dwells in a carnal body, his battle is less intense because he has submitted his will to Christ. The apostle Paul says, “I have been crucified with Christ and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. The life I now live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me” (Gal. 2:20, NIV).

The unconverted man is under the dominion or condemnation of the law for as long as he lives (Rom. 7:1). His only escape is death. Since Jesus already paid the price of death for the sinner, the sinner’s acceptance of Christ as Savior signifies also the acceptance of Christ’s death on his behalf. “There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit” (Rom. 8:1, NKJV).

Who is the “man” of Romans 7? All of us! This is a declaration of the dilemma of the human family. We are hopelessly lost in our sinful condition unless rescued by One who has power over sin and death. If I cannot do the things I desire to do then I am a slave to someone or something else. In Christ Jesus we are liberated (Luke 4:18).

**React**

`If I have been born again, why should I have any challenge with fleshly lusts?`

`What does it mean to be under the law? Is there a difference between being under the condemnation of the law and being under the jurisdiction of the law?`

_Robert Wright, Mandeville, Jamaica, West Indies_