---
title:  The Man in Romans 7
date:   20/11/2017
---

**Logos**: Rom. 6:1, 2, 8–11, 14, 15, 23; 7:1–25; 8:1–29

In Romans 6–8, Paul addresses the question of the nature and function of the law (which includes the Ten Commandments) in the plan of salvation. In chapter 6 he uses two illustrations—baptism and slavery—and in chapter 7 he uses two more—marriage and the human dilemma of struggling to do what is right—to show that salvation is not based on carrying out the requirements of the law but on the merits of Christ’s righteousness and vicarious death in Him.

**Rabbinic Teaching on the Law** (Rom. 6:4, 8–11, 23; 7:25; 8:1, 2)

One of the issues Paul was addressing was the teachings of the rabbis of his day, as later codified in the Mishnah, regarding the role and function of the law. The rabbis taught that God created humans with an inclination toward evil called the yetzer hara. The rabbis claimed that God had said, “I created within you the evil yetzer, but I created the Law as a drug. As long as you occupy yourselves with the Law, the yetzer will not rule over you. But if you do not occupy yourselves with the Torah, then you will be delivered into the power of the yetzer, and all its activity will be against you.”<sup>1</sup>

According to this teaching, the law was provided as the antidote for the yetzer, to control this God-created, innate tendency toward evil. This ascribes to the law a saving function that Paul categorically denies, asserting that salvation is found only in Christ (Rom. 6:4, 8–11, 23; 7:25; 8:1, 2).

**Human Dilemma Illustration** (Romans 7)

Having used marriage to illustrate the end of the old system established at Sinai (Rom. 7:1–6), describing the nature of the law (with specific reference to the Decalogue) and its relationship to sin (verses 7–14), Paul now uses the human dilemma of the struggle against sin as an illustration of the futility of attempting to earn salvation by one’s own effort (verses 14–25). It is important to bear in mind that Paul is talking about the law, and the human dilemma described is merely an illustration. It is possible to get so caught up in the illustration that we lose sight of what is being illustrated.

The great debate over whether or not this portrayal of the plight of sinful human beings is a description of Paul’s personal struggle and whether it was before or after his conversion is not a profitable exercise, as it focuses on the illustration at the expense of the illustrated. Regardless of one’s conclusion regarding this illustrative description of the human dilemma, one thing is abundantly clear: because living “under the law” means enslavement to sin, those who do so are all enslaved to sin, a cruel master and, without Christ, are helpless in the struggle against it. But victory is possible in Him. Paul’s intent was to show the Jews the need of the Messiah as their Savior. Having already asserted that victory over sin is possible only under grace (Rom. 6:14), he reemphasizes that point with the use of this illustration.

**Character, Purpose, and Function of the Law** (Rom. 7:12, 14)

Paul exalts the law in every way possible, stating that “the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, righteous and good” (Rom. 7:12, NIV), and that “the law is spiritual” (verse 14). His concern was not over the content and value of the law but its misuse. The law, Paul asserts, is good for what it does; but it can’t do what it was never meant to do—save us from sin. For that, we need Jesus, because the law—either the entire Jewish system or the Decalogue in particular—cannot bring salvation. He is showing that the law was necessary but that its function was limited, that it was certainly not the supposed divinely prescribed antidote to some evil yetzer that held human beings slaves to sin. The law, he contends, was meant to show the need of salvation, not to be the means of obtaining that salvation.

**Salvation Only in Christ** (Rom. 8:3)

Paul asserts that empowerment over sin and salvation from sin can only be found in Jesus (Rom. 7:24, 25; 8:1, 2), who paid the penalty of death on our behalf, thus providing for our salvation. The law was never intended to and could never sanctify us (rabbinic teaching notwithstanding), but “what the law was powerless to do” (Rom. 8:3, NIV), God did through the gift of His Son. Paul asserts that now “we serve in the new way of the Spirit, and not in the old way of the written code” (Rom. 7:6, NIV) and that “through Christ Jesus the law of the Spirit who gives life has set you free from the law of sin and death” (Rom. 8:2, NIV). This means that response to the law (even the Ten Commandments) should not be self-driven obedience to an outside force, a written code that demands compliance, but a Spirit-infused internal principle generating Spiritled compliance.

**React**

`How can we resist the temptation to use the human dilemma described in Romans 7 as an excuse for our lack of spiritual growth?`

`How does one justify insisting on the continuing validity of the Ten Commandments while asserting that the old system of Law ended with the death of Christ, who was its ultimate fulfillment?`

<sup>1. C. K. Barrett, ed., The New Testament Background: Selected Documents (New York, NY: Harper and Row, 1961), p. 153.</sup>

_Orlando Moncrieffe, Bergenfield, New Jersey, USA_