---
title:  Choose Life or Death
date:   21/11/2017
---

**Testimony**: Rom. 7:6, 10; 8:29

“ ‘Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness.’ Righteousness is obedience to the law. The law demands righteousness, and this the sinner owes to the law; but he is incapable of rendering it. The only way in which he can attain to righteousness is through faith. By faith he can bring to God the merits of Christ, and the Lord places the obedience of His Son to the sinner’s account. Christ’s righteousness is accepted in place of man’s failure, and God receives, pardons, justifies, the repentant, believing soul, treats him as though he were righteous, and loves him as He loves His Son. This is how faith is accounted righteousness.”<sup>1</sup>

“When through repentance and faith we accept Christ as our Saviour, the Lord pardons our sins, and remits the penalty prescribed for the transgression of the law. The sinner then stands before God as a just person; he is taken into favor with Heaven, and through the Spirit has fellowship with the Father and the Son. Then there is yet another work to be accomplished, and this is of a progressive nature. The soul is to be sanctified through the truth. And this also is accomplished through faith. For it is only by the grace of Christ, which we receive through faith, that the character can be transformed.”<sup>2</sup>

“When we submit ourselves to Christ, the heart is united with His heart, the will is merged in His will, the mind becomes one with His mind, the thoughts are brought into captivity to Him; we live His life. This is what it means to be clothed with the garment of His righteousness.”<sup>3</sup>

“The righteousness by which we are justified is imputed; the righteousness by which we are sanctified is imparted. The first is our title to heaven, the second is our fitness for heaven.”<sup>4</sup>

“Both our title to heaven and our fitness for it are found in the righteousness of Christ.”<sup>5</sup>

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, “Christ the Way of Life,” The Review and Herald, November 4, 1890.</sup>
<sup>2. Ellen G. White, “Justification by Faith,” The Signs of the Times, November 3, 1890.</sup>
<sup>3. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 312.</sup>
<sup>4. Ellen G. White, “Qualifications for the Worker,” The Review and Herald, June 4, 1895.</sup>
<sup>5. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 300.</sup>

_Carl Henry, Snellville, Georgia, USA_