---
title:  Jesus Is the Only Answer
date:   22/11/2017
---

**How-to**: Rom. 7:15–20

How ironic is it that a woman I know, who suffered at the hands of her first husband, a physically abusive alcoholic, would marry someone else of a similar tendency? One would naturally assume that if she could marry again, she would want to marry a loving, supportive teetotaler the second time around. However, upon the death of her first husband, she married another man who also turned out to be a physically abusive alcoholic.

It seems that she suffered from the malady Paul describes so poignantly in Romans 7:15–20. What she didn’t want to do is exactly what she did, and what she should have done she couldn’t or didn’t do. Reflecting on her situation made me realize that often we are no different from her, as our lives are filled with these contradictions. We want to do good but end up doing bad things, breaking God’s laws, and feeling sorry and guilty for our wrongdoing. It appears that this is a human condition that many of us are experiencing.

Sin is in us, causing us to shun right doing and instead do wrong, even though we know better. We are miserable people who will die from the body of death. How can we then break this habit, fix this malady, and turn these behaviors around? Who or what will rescue us? We cannot do this on our own. Only Jesus, through the Holy Spirit, can give us the victory.

Only through daily devotion, reading Scripture, and prayer can we muster the pure determination to do that which is good and shun the evil that presents itself to us. Only by having a close, personal, and intimate relationship with Jesus can we be saved from the body of death. In so doing, we will be able to declare, like Paul, “Thanks be to God, who delivers me through Jesus Christ our Lord” (Rom. 7:25, NIV)!

**React**

`What has been your experience with how Satan exploits you?`

`Have you tried on your own to control your circumstances, only to find yourself overpowered by these conditions? Discuss.`

`Although you regularly renew your commitment to Christ, do you lapse into sin at times? Why?`

`As a Christian, have you experienced the same struggles in your life: getting tripped up over and over again, rising only to fall again, and wondering how to untangle yourself completely from these besetting sins?`

`What wrong choices are you making, and are there some sins that you should consider giving up? some that you do not wish to give up?`

_Trescot Wilson, Sandys, Bermuda_