---
title:  What’s the Big Deal?
date:   23/11/2017
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 7:6; 8:3, 4

This matter of faith has been demonstrated by many in religious and secular history. Hebrews 11, the “faith chapter,” chronicles many people who walked by faith and not by sight, understanding that their salvation was by faith alone; although some died before seeing the fulfilment of the prophecy, yet through faith they believed. We presently see through a glass darkly (1 Cor. 13:12), but faith gives us the opportunity to see face-to-face. Sin caused great damage, and at times we don’t seem to be able to comprehend the marvelous work of Christ and the beauty of salvation through faith in Jesus. He died on the cross to save us from our sins, and it is through His sacrifice and salvation by faith alone that we can have eternal life (Rom. 7:6; 8:3, 4).

Abraham was called the father of the faithful. Both he and his wife were past childbearing age, but God promised him generations like the sands of the seashore. By faith he believed and was rewarded. Reread the story of God’s deliverance of the children of Israel through the Red Sea. By faith, the priests stood on dry land, and the multitudes crossed over. Among those who exhibited faith, Daniel didn’t worry about breakfast with the lions, and the three Hebrews didn’t worry in the fiery furnace; their faith was the bedrock of their salvation. Enoch, Noah, Abel, Rahab, and David are also among those listed as faithful. All these and more looked forward in faith for their salvation (Hebrews 11). Since we have so many witnesses, it is incumbent upon us to fix our eyes on Jesus, “the author and finisher of our faith” (Heb. 12:2, NKJV). God is the architect, we are coworkers with Him. God honors demonstrated faith on our part.

What if our salvation were not solely by faith but needed an element of works? How would we account for the many “impossible” situations in which we find ourselves, where God constantly and miraculously intervenes and gives us deliverance? Isn’t this the faith “in what we hope for and assurance about what we do not see” (Heb. 11:1, NIV)?

**React**

`How have you been able to demonstrate your saving faith in the past week?`

`Make a list of acquaintances you determine as having faith. In what is their faith?`

`Was it easier for people in biblical and/or historical times to demonstrate their faith? Why or why not?`

`Discuss the saying, “We are saved by faith alone, but the faith that saves is never alone.”`

_Beverly Henry, Mandeville, Jamaica_