---
title:  The Offer of Freedom
date:   24/11/2017
---

**Exploration**: Rom. 6:14

**Conclude**

There is a choice we get to make—to serve God or the world. Jesus’ death on the cross offers us redemption. We are presented with the gift of righteousness and a life centered on grace. Paul chose to devote his time sharing this message of hope. We are no longer condemned by the law, but rather sanctified by the victory secured on the cross. Today, we can live out our lives as champions—knowing that Christ has won our eternity. “For sin shall no longer be your master, because you are not under the law, but under grace” (Rom. 6:14, NKJV).

**Consider**

- Cooking a feast with your friends, a banquet made for champions in celebration of the grace God has given us so freely. Take time to share God’s spiritual victories in your life and read an encouraging Bible verse about grace.
- Creating a poster collage from magazine clippings of what victory in Christ means to you. Use words and pictures to express yourself.
- Writing a poem about the message of hope that God gives us through His grace. Perhaps focus on what it feels like to be forgiven. If you struggle to feel forgiven and free from the law, express that to God in your poem.
- Sharing on social media about what you have learned about God during this lesson of the CQ.
- Spending time in nature this weekend talking to God. Look for His love in the creation He has brought into this world. Can you find ways that God has given nature victory to flourish?

**Connect**

1. 2 Corinthians 12:9; Isaiah 61:10; 1 John 5:4; Matthew 6:33.
2. Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pp. 423–426; Steps to Christ, p. 29.

_Cassi Fitzpatrick, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_