---
title:  The Universality of the Gospel
date:   20/05/2018
---

`Read Revelation 14:6, Matthew 24:14, 28:19. What is the similar theme found in these texts? How do these texts together help us understand how important outreach and witness are to our purpose as a church?`

In a sense, one can say that the first angel’s message is the Great Commission (Matt. 28:19) now given in the context of the last days. It is, indeed, “present truth”.

Notice that all three texts place an emphasis on outreach to all the world, to “all the nations”, and to “every nation, tribe, tongue, and people”. In other words, this message is universal in scope. Every person needs to hear it.

`Read Galatians 3:22. What does this text say that helps us understand why all the world needs to hear the gospel?`

The universality of sin explains the universality of our mission and calling. “Every nation, tribe, tongue, and people” has done wrong, has violated God’s law, and has been “confined under sin”. Adam’s fall in Eden has impacted every human being; no nation or tribe or people has been immune. We all face the immediate consequences of sin, and unless a remedy was provided, we all would face the ultimate consequence: eternal death.

That remedy, of course, has been provided: the life, death, resurrection, and heavenly sanctuary ministry of Jesus, who is the only solution to the sin problem. Everyone needs to know the great hope of what God has offered them in Jesus Christ. This is why Seventh-day Adventists have gone throughout all the world, seeking to bring the message of Jesus to those who have not yet heard it.

`Why is spreading the gospel message to others so spiritually beneficial for those doing it? That is, why is reaching out to others one of the best ways to be prepared for the coming of Jesus?`
