---
title:  The Hour of His Judgment Has Come
date:   23/05/2018
---

In the first angel’s message, the idea of fearing God and giving glory to Him is linked to judgment (Rev. 14:7). If the Bible is clear about any teaching, it is clear that God is a God of justice and of judgment. One day the judgment and justice so lacking in this world will indeed come.

No wonder people need to fear God.

And that’s why the “everlasting gospel” also includes the reality of judgment. What is the relationship between these two elements? If the gospel means “good news”, it means that though we are all sinners and have broken God’s law, when judgment day comes, like the thief on the cross, we will not face the penalty and punishment that we deserve for our sin and law-breaking.

`Read the following texts and then ask yourself, How well would I do standing in my own merits? Matt. 12:36, Eccles. 12:14, Rom. 2:6, 1 Cor. 4:5.`

The God who knows the number of hairs on our heads is going to judge the world. But that is precisely why the “everlasting gospel” is such good news. Judgment comes, but there is “no condemnation” for the faithful followers of Jesus, those washed, sanctified, and justified in the name of the Lord Jesus (see 1 Cor. 6:11), because Jesus Christ is their righteousness, and His righteousness is what gets them through that judgment.

“Man cannot meet these charges himself. In his sin-stained garments, confessing his guilt, he stands before God. But Jesus our Advocate presents an effectual plea in behalf of all who by repentance and faith have committed the keeping of their souls to Him. He pleads their cause and vanquishes their accuser by the mighty arguments of Calvary. His perfect obedience to God’s law, even unto the death of the cross, has given Him all power in heaven and in earth, and He claims of His Father mercy and reconciliation for guilty man”. — Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church , vol. 5, p. 471.

`What does the reality of judgment teach us about our utter need for forgiveness? How can you learn to give to others who have done you wrong the kind of grace and forgiveness God offers us through Jesus?`
