---
title:  Worship the One Who Made the Heavens and Earth
date:   24/05/2018
---

`Read again Revelation 14:6, 7. What are the specific elements found in the entire first angel’s message, and how do they relate to one another?`

Along with the gospel, the call to witness to the world and the call to fear God and give glory to Him comes the call to worship God as the Creator. And no wonder. All these other aspects of “present truth” — the everlasting gospel, the call to witness, the judgment — what do they mean apart from God as our Creator? These truths and all other truths arise from the foundational truth of the Lord as the One who has made all things. By worshiping the Lord as Creator, we are getting back to basics. We are getting back to the foundation of what it means to be human and alive and unlike any other earthly creatures, to be made in the image of God. By worshiping the Lord as Creator, we acknowledge our dependence upon Him for existence and for our future hope. This is why the keeping of the seventh-day Sabbath is so important. It’s a special acknowledgment that God alone is our Creator, and we worship only Him. That is, along with the gospel, along with the judgment, the call to worship the Lord as Creator is given prominence here.

`Read Revelation 14:8-11. What do these verses say that could help us understand the importance of worshiping the Lord as Creator?`

As final events unfold, pressure to worship the beast and his image rather than the Creator will come upon all the world. If we consider the fearsome warning about the fate of those who worship the beast and his image, we can better understand the emphasis on worshiping God as Creator as the only One worthy of human worship. In the final crisis, this truth will become more crucial than ever.

`Take time to dwell on the incredible marvels of the created world. What can and do they teach us about the One who created it all and why He alone is worthy of our worship?`
