---
title:  The Baptism and Filling of the Holy Spirit
date:   28/01/2017
---

### The Baptism and Filling of the Holy Spirit

### Read for This Week’s Study
Mark 1:8, Eph. 5:18, Acts 13:52, Luke 11:8–10, Acts 5:32, Gal. 5:16–26.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life, and have it to the full’ ” (John 10:10, NIV). 

As Christians, we must be filled with the Holy Spirit. Without Him, our witness will be powerless and our Christian lives nothing but a burden. We might have learning, talent, and eloquence, but without the Spirit, we cannot experience life as God intended for us to. We will not have the assurance of salvation and will not know the joy that comes from serving our Lord. We will be Christians in name only, and a Christian in name only is not really a Christian at all.

Jesus, however, wants us to live life to its fullest. He wants to give us life as it is meant to be—a life that is fulfilling and meaningful because it is rooted in the Source of all life: Jesus Christ. He is the Creator of all life, and the only way to eternal life. “ ‘I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Me’ ” (John 14:6, NKJV). This fullness is possible only by being joined to Him, and this can happen only through the Holy Spirit’s working in our lives. 

This week we will study what the Bible says about the baptism of the Spirit and what it means to be filled with Him. We will also look at some evidence that testifies that we are, indeed, filled with the Spirit.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, February 4._