---
title:  Being Filled With the Holy Spirit
date:   30/01/2017
---

### Being Filled With the Holy Spirit

`Read Ephesians 5:18, Acts 13:52, and Romans 8:9. What does it mean to be filled with the Holy Spirit? How does being filled with the Spirit happen in our lives?`

Once we are baptized and belong to Christ, we should live in the power of the Spirit. For this to happen we have to be filled with the Spirit. There are numerous references in the New Testament where people are filled with the Spirit (Luke 1:41, 67; Acts 2:4; 4:8, 31; 9:17; 13:9). The apostle Paul uses the word filling to say that a person has submitted completely to God and is open to the guiding influence of the Holy Spirit so that God’s own work can be accomplished in the person’s life. 

If we yield to the influence of alcohol, our walk, talk, and thoughts will be affected negatively. When we are filled with the Holy Spirit, we yield every part of our life to His transforming influence with the result that our walk, talk, and thoughts will reflect Jesus.

While the Spirit is given by the hearing of faith (Gal. 3:2) and is received through faith (Gal. 3:14) at our baptism (Titus 3:5, 6), we need to seek the infilling of the Holy Spirit every day. We can’t live off a powerful experience that we had last year or last month or even yesterday. We need the infilling of God’s Spirit each day, for each day brings its own challenges.

In the Greek of Acts 13:52, the term filled with the Spirit is in the imperfect tense, signifying continuous action. It literally means: “being [continuously] filled.” Being filled with the Spirit is not a one-time event. It is something that we should seek and receive every day. This filling has to be repeated so that every part of our lives is filled with His presence, and so we are empowered to live as we should. 

Being filled with the Holy Spirit does not so much mean that we possess more of Him but that He possesses more of us. Only when we commit all aspects of our life to the Spirit every day can He use us to God’s glory. 

“I wish to impress upon you the fact that those who have Jesus abiding in the heart by faith, have actually received the Holy Spirit. Every individual who receives Jesus as his personal Saviour, just as surely receives the Holy Spirit to be his Counselor, Sanctifier, Guide, and Witness.”—Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, vol. 14, p. 71.