---
title:  'Conditions: Part 2'
date:   01/02/2017
---

### Conditions: Part 2

`Read Acts 5:32. Why is obedience to God’s Word an important condition for receiving the Holy Spirit?`

Then, as now, the Holy Spirit is granted to all who obey God. In the Bible, love and obedience go hand in hand, and true faith is expressed in obedience. If we trust God with all our hearts, we will obey His commandments. Jesus said: “ ‘If anyone loves Me, he will keep My word’ ” (John 14:23, NASB). Obedience is a choice leading to a lifestyle that follows God’s will as expressed in His law. We must continue in obedience if we want to acknowledge Jesus as our Lord (Luke 6:46). In 1 John 2:4, 5 we are told that “the one who says, ‘I have come to know Him,’ and does not keep His commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him; but whoever keeps His word, in him the love of God has truly been perfected” (NASB). Those are strong words. From John we also know that “the one who keeps His commandments abides in Him, and He in him. We know by this that He abides in us, by the Spirit whom He has given us” (1 John 3:24, NASB). When we do what God has commanded, we will have peace of mind.

`Read Jude 18–21. Why do we need to avoid all impurity if we want to be filled with the Spirit?` 

The fire of the Holy Spirit cannot keep burning in our lives when we are worldly minded. The Holy Spirit reacts very sensitively to the existence of all sin and worldliness in our lives. Therefore we need to keep ourselves in the love of God and be connected with God through prayer so that we will shun all impurity and display a spirit of power, love, and discipline (2 Tim. 1:6, 7). Only through a close and fierce battle with self can we become the kind of people we should be. Of course, we can’t do it ourselves; the battle comes down to our choice of either surrendering our wills to the prompting of the Holy Spirit or allowing the flesh to dominate. The choice is ours. 

`“There is no limit to the usefulness of one who, by putting self aside, makes room for the working of the Holy Spirit upon his heart, and lives a life wholly consecrated to God.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 250, 251. How can you apply these words to your own spiritual life?`