---
title:  God’s Forgiveness and Sorrow for Sin
date:   30/05/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Isaiah 64:6; Hosea 6; Acts 3:18, 19; Exodus 34:1–10; Romans 5:8; Matthew 22:1–14.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “But if we confess our sins, God will forgive us. We can trust God to do this [forgive]. He always does what is right. He will make us clean from all the wrong things we have done” (1 John 1:9, ERV).

The Israelites wondered when they would get to the Promised Land. The Israelites camped under the tall cloud on the desert plain. Many days ago, Moses went into the thick, dark cloud that covered the top of the mountain. No one saw him since. Was Moses dead? Did he starve to death in the cloud? Or did he die in the fire on the mountaintop? The crowd who left Egypt with the Israelites was unhappy. They were upset that they had to wait so long in the desert. They were ready to move to the land filled with milk and honey. A few days before, God’s people promised to obey Him. But now they wanted a God or leader they could see. So, they went to Aaron’s tent and asked him to make a statue they could worship. Aaron was afraid the people would hurt him if he didn’t help them. So, he agreed to do what they wanted. In Exodus 32–34, we read what happens next in this sad story.

This story teaches us about confessing our sins and God’s forgiveness. Think about the memory verse as you read each day’s study. Yes, we sin. But God made a plan to save us. Thanks to Jesus’ death on the cross, God offers to forgive us. But we must confess our sins first. We also must ask for the Holy Spirit’s help to stop sinning.