---
title:  Real Sorrow For Sin
date:   02/06/2026
---

Popular advice today tells us to do whatever we want. God’s advice is different. God invites us to serve Him. God asks us to empty our hearts of pride (Matthew 5:5) and to reject sin. That’s what Jesus and John the Baptist tell us. John says, “ ‘Change your hearts and lives because the kingdom of heaven is coming soon’ ” (Matthew 3:2, ICB; also read verse 1). What did Jesus say? “ ‘The time has come,’ he said. The kingdom of God is here. Stop your wrong ways, turn back to God and believe the good news’ ” (Mark 1:15, WE; also read verse 14 and Luke 24:46, 47). The kingdom of heaven was near. So, Jesus and John told people to reject sin. Do you think this message is important to us today?

`Why is rejecting sin so important to spiritual growth? Read Acts 3:18, 19 for the answer. Verse 19 talks about “the time will come when the Lord will make everything new” (NIrV). What is the time of making “everything new”?`

God’s love causes us to reject sin (Romans 2:4). Rejecting sin has two parts: (1) We feel deeply sorry for our sins. (2) We decide to get rid of sin completely. In the Bible, sorrow for sin almost always is connected to forgiveness (1 John 1:9; Revelation 3:19). Before Jesus comes back, God gives us time to confess and come back to Him (2 Peter 3:9).

Jesus suffered, died, and woke up from the dead for us. When we reject sin, He can work a miracle in our lives. Popular wisdom today tells us we are fine just as we are. But God asks us to reject sin and come to Him in faith (Acts 20:21). He will change our lives. Then we can share His love with people (John 15:2, 8; Matthew 3:8).

“When you are sorry for sin, you will become a new person in Jesus. Do you want Jesus’ perfect life of obedience to cover your sin? Then you must confess and reject that sin first. Jesus’ perfect life of obedience will change your heart and control your behavior.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 555, 556, adapted.

`When we confess and reject sin, God fills us with His life. Do you want your relationship with God to grow strong? Then you must do three things: (1) Give your whole life to God. (2) Confess and reject sin. (3) Allow God to remove sin from your life. Which part is hardest for you?`