---
title:  All We Need Are God’s Love And Forgiveness
date:   03/06/2026
---

Does your heart sometimes feel heavy from the guilt of all your sins? Allow the Holy Spirit to lead you to the foot of the cross. There, ask for God’s forgiveness. Remember, “The Lord is kind to people and he forgives them. He is slow to get angry and his love always continues” (Psalm 103:8, EASY). God Himself said these same words in Exodus 34:6 after His chosen people sinned against Him.

`Read Exodus 34:1–10. What important truth do you read about in these verses?`

The Lord is filled with love and forgiveness. He is kind and patient. These are the reasons Jesus died on the cross. Jesus died to fix our broken relationship with God.

But first we must be willing to confess our sin. Then Jesus can remove our sin from us. He waits for us to say, “ ‘God, have pity on me! I am a sinner!’ ” (Luke 18:13, NLV). Before we cry to Him, Jesus is already working in us and for us. Jesus sees the heavy load of sin we carry in our hearts. He removes it from us at Calvary. Jesus is the Good Shepherd who goes looking for us. He stands at the ‘door’ of our hearts and knocks (Revelation 3:20). Why stay far away from God? Run to Jesus! Exchange your heavy load of sin for His life of perfect obedience (Zechariah 3:4).

**Slowly read the verses below. Write in your own words what they tell you about God’s love for you:**

“If you serve sin as your master, it will pay you with death. But if you belong to our Lord Jesus Christ, God gives you a gift! That gift is life with God for ever” (Romans 6:23, EASY).

“God’s gift makes people right with him. . . . As a result [because God is kind], they will have life with God for ever, because of what our Lord Jesus Christ has done” (Romans 5:21, EASY, also read verse 20).

“But God showed His love to us. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us” (Romans 5:8, NLV).

` `