---
title:  The Christian And Work
date:  05/12/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Ecclesiastes 3:12, 13; Deuteronomy 16:15; Exodus 25:10–30:38; Galatians 5:22–26.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “So, my dear brothers and sisters, stand strong. Don’t let anything change you. Always give yourselves fully to the work of the Lord. You know that your work in the Lord is never wasted” (1 Corinthians 15:58, ERV).

GOD MADE WORK. On the perfect earth before sin, God gave Adam and Eve the job of taking care of the garden (Genesis 2:15). Adam and Eve’s work brought them joy. It gave them happiness to make beauty come alive in their garden home. So we see that even in a perfect life without sin, suffering, and death, humans had work to do.

We now live in the time between Eden and the promised life with God in heaven. During this time, God wants us to see work as one of His gifts to us. The Jewish people in Bible times taught each child how to do a special job. A father who didn’t teach his son how to do a special job taught his son to be a criminal. Jesus, the Son of God, spent many years working as a carpenter in Nazareth (Mark 6:3). This work was part of the training that helped Jesus get ready for the work God planned for Him in the future. Paul worked with Aquila and Priscilla making tents for a year and a half. Paul taught the Jews on Sabbaths (Acts 18:1–4; 2 Thessalonians 3:8–12). Paul’s tentmaking was as much God’s work as his preaching. This week, we look at God’s plan for work in our lives and its part in Christian education.