---
title:  The Many Sides Of Work 
date:  06/12/2020
---

**“People should be happy and do good while they live. I know there’s nothing better for them to do than that. Each of them should eat and drink. People should be satisfied [happy] with all their hard work. That is God’s gift to them” (Ecclesiastes 3:12, 13, NIrV).**

Work. A word with many possible meanings. We work because we need to put food on our tables. We work because we need to pay bills. We work so that we can save a little money for hard times ahead. Losing a job is often worse than our having to put up with a bad job or a difficult work experience.

Work can give a person worth. How do you most often answer the questions, “What do you do?” Or “What are you?” We tell people what our jobs are. Most people continue to work after they retire. Sometimes they work part-time. Other times they serve as a volunteer. A job gives us a reason to get out of bed each morning. Give a teenager a job and he or she will probably stay out of trouble!

`Read Genesis 3:19. What is happening in this verse, and why? What do the answers tell us about the other reason that God gave humans work?`

All the sudden the work that God gives humans before the Fall changes after the Fall. Genesis 3:19 shows us another reason for work. For some people, a job means only hard work and a lot of effort, which ends only when they die. They hate their jobs. They want to retire and hope to be healthy when they do. For other people, a job can take over their whole life. They feel sad when they don’t work. They don’t know what to do or where to turn. When they retire, they may fall apart. Sometimes they die early.

Christians need to learn how to work God’s way. Work is more than just about the need to earn a paycheck. Man is more than just an employee. We must have the correct idea about work. Work is a way to serve God and other people. It is part of our friendship with God. Part of a teacher’s job is to help students find the work in life that uses the skills God gave them.

`What do you do? That is, what are you doing with your life? How can you honor God by doing it?`