---
title:  Work And Growth 
date:  07/12/2020
---

Work is what we do in life. People who work at desk jobs end up in some way using their bodies to do some work. That may mean only pressing computer keys!

**Many verses below use the word “hands” as a word picture for work. What do these verses teach us about work?**

`Deuteronomy 16:15`

`Ecclesiastes 9:10`

`Proverbs 21:25`

`Jeremiah 1:16`

God gave us work so that our lives will have joy and meaning (read Proverbs 10:4; Proverbs 12:14). Every person has the skill to do something meaningful in life. We do not find meaning in life simply by thinking about doing something. We feel worth in life only when we do it.

Work is God’s blessing to us (read Psalm 90:17). It helps our lives to have meaning. At the same time, God’s plan is for our work to bless other people. Paul writes that we must work. We must do something useful with our hands. Then we will have something to share with other people. Paul lived by this important rule, for sure.

“You yourselves know that these hands of mine have supplied my own needs and the needs of my companions. In everything I did, I showed you that by this kind of hard work we must help the weak, remembering the words the Lord Jesus himself said: ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive’ ” (Acts 20:34, 35, NIV).

Nehemiah’s simple prayer should be ours: “ ‘But I prayed to God. I said, ‘Make my hands stronger’ ” (Nehemiah 6:9, NIrV).

`How do you feel about work? How is your work a blessing to other people?`