---
title:  Doing Excellent Work 
date:  08/12/2020
---

`Read over Exodus 25:10–30:38. How much did God care about the place of worship that He asked Moses to build? What does this answer tell us about who He is?`

God tells Moses to build a tent for Him. What if Moses said, “No problem, Lord! I have been putting up tents ever since I ran away from Egypt 40 years ago. . . . Just give me a second, and I’ll get the job done!” Any man living in Moses’ day can put up a tent. It is simple for him. He can do it with a blindfold over his eyes, with his mind on other far more important things. What Moses may not expect is for God to give him a long “how-to-do-it list” about putting up the tent, all the furniture inside, and the clothes for the holy leaders. God gives Moses almost 150 commands about how to build and make everything! To make a simple table, Moses must do seven different things (Exodus 25:23–30).

God showed a lot of attention to the little things in His commands to Moses about how to build His tent. This shows God loves for us to do excellent work. He wants us to make everything as perfect as we can. Moses used the best gold, wood, silver, and cloth. God gave Him an excellent building plan. The work to build the tent must be excellent too. The message is clear: God does not accept sloppy, or careless, work!

God is the One who got the work on His tent started. He also gave Moses the people to work on building and making everything. We read in Exodus 31:1–6 and Exodus 35:30–36:1 that God Himself gives the people the skill needed. God pours His Spirit on the top two men in charge. Then they have the wisdom and knowledge necessary to do the job just as the Lord commanded (Exodus 36:1). God also gives these two men “special skills to teach other people” (Exodus 35:34, ERV). They pass on their knowledge to other people in Israel. In this way, the Israelite community continues to have their knowledge. God also gives other people in the Israelite community the gifts and skills needed to work with these two men. Together, they finish the work (Exodus 36:2).

`So, what does this teach us? It shows us that our being sinners is not excuse for not doing a good job. God expects us always to do our best. He wants us to put our skills, time, and education to good use for His cause.`