---
title:  Work And Spiritual Life 
date:  09/12/2020
---

“We get our new life from the Spirit. So we should follow the Spirit” (Galatians 5:25, ICB). One’s work and spiritual life cannot be separated. Christianity is not clothes that can be put on or taken off whenever you want. No, Christianity makes you into a whole new person. This new person shows himself or herself in every part of life, including work.

`Read about the gifts Paul talks about in Galatians 5:22–26. Which of these gifts do you have? How do you use them in your work?`

The Expository Dictionary of New Testament Words says that the “spiritual” person is “one who shows the fruit of the Spirit in his or her life.”—Adapted. So, when we are connected with Jesus, we will show that we are believers in all parts of our lives.

A dying man lies at the Florida Hospital. His best friend sits beside him. Nurses come in and out of the room. They take care of the dying man’s needs. The man’s best friend asks the nurses where they went to school and were trained. Many of the nurses said they were educated at Florida Hospital College.

The care that these nurses gave to the dying man touches his best friend’s heart. Later, the best friend makes several visits to Florida Hospital College to find out more about it. Why? Because he told people that the nurses trained at this school gave more tender loving care to his dying friend than the other nurses trained somewhere else. That is, the best friend saw that the nurses from Florida Hospital College were different. They were kinder to his dying friend.

The best friend left a gift of $100,000 to the college so that more nurses can be educated the way the nurses were that he saw taking care of his friend. Yes, being spiritual is a way of life.

`How do you show your own spiritual life in the day-to-day tasks you do? What do you think people think of you because of it? (Because in the end, people watch us and they do think something.)`