---
title:  Taking Care Of Everything God Gives Us 
date:  10/12/2020
---

“Whatever work you do, do your best” (Ecclesiastes 9:10, ICB). This verse is King Solomon’s advice for how to take care of everything God gives us in all parts of our lives.

What is Christian stewardship? It is taking care of every gift God gives us. It is being a good manager of these gifts. Many think that stewardship is just about managing our money. But it is so much more. So, we must not limit our understanding of stewardship to just money.

In the church, what gifts, things, and blessings has God given us to do His work? Peter says that God gives gifts to each one of us. Peter names these Christians with their gifts as “religious leaders” (1 Peter 2:5, NLV). Christian stewards, or managers, are responsible to God for how they take care of and use all of God’s gifts: money, time, energy, talent, and everything else.

`Read Ecclesiastes 9:10 and 1 Corinthians 10:31. What is the message to us in these verses about how we should work? How should we teach people to work too?`

One of our biggest problems today is that we separate the different parts of life from each other. We separate work life from family life. We separate spiritual life and our free time from everything else too. Of course, it is important to have some separation between these different parts of our lives. Here’s a good example: it is not good to bring work home from the office so that it gets in the way of spending time with our family. And our amusements in our free time should not get in the way of our spending time with God.

But we must remember that our spiritual life must be a part of every area of our lives. The Christian’s work grows out of his or her fellowship and work with God. Work is one way that we can get to know God better and be with Him. So, it is wrong to keep religious life separate from the rest of our life. It is the same as limiting God to only one day, one hour, or even just one part of our life. Then we will be turning away from God in those parts of our lives.

`Do you separate your spiritual life from the other parts of your life? If yes, how can you learn to be spiritual in all parts of life?`