---
title:  Further Thought
date:  11/12/2020
---

Genesis 3, Ecclesiastes 2:18–23; Ephesians 6:5–8; read Ellen G. White, “The Temptation and Fall,” pages 52–62; in Patriarchs and Prophets.

Work. Is it a curse or a blessing? Did God give it to us as part of His curse on sin? (Read Genesis 3:17.) If we read Genesis closely, we see that the ground was cursed, and not the work. Ellen G. White says that God gave us work as a blessing: “After the Fall, man’s life will be filled with hard work and things he needs to take care of. God gave this work to man because He loved us. Humans needed this work because of what sin did to us. So, hard work helps man control his hunger, his body, and the things he wants. Work helps man develop the habit of self-control. Work is part of God’s big plan for saving man from the ruin and damage caused by sin.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 60, adapted.

Maybe we make work a curse. For sure, work can feel the same as a curse when we work too much or our work is boring. It also can become a curse when we make our work more important than we should. What do you think? Whatever our job in life, we need to think about our work in the right way. Christian education must help people to learn why work is important. At the same time, we must learn not to make a false god out of work.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read Ecclesiastes 2:18–24. Why does Solomon say that work is both a blessing and a curse at the same time? How can we have the right thinking about our jobs? What do these verses teach us?`

`How can we teach our families that work is a good thing?`

`Doing an excellent job and working too much: how are these things different? How do we keep from falling into the trap of working too much? (Read Ecclesiastes 2:23 for the answer.)`

`Paul says, “When we were with you, we gave you this rule: ‘Whoever will not work should not be allowed to eat.’ ” (2 Thessalonians 3:10, ERV). Of course, this important rule is good advice. Can you think of some examples where this advice doesn’t work? That is, why must we be sure to NOT make this rule a rule that must never be broken?`