---
title:  Unity for a Purpose
date:  29/09/2018
---

**Introduction**: Gen. 1:26

At the very beginning of everything, God introduced stewardship through the Sabbath, thus bringing true unity. The Godhead was united when they made the decision to create humans, as Scripture states, “ ‘Let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness’ ” (Gen. 1:26, NKJV). They were united in Their creation of the world. So the story began for Adam and Eve. God united them both into one family. Even the animals were created in pairs so that they could be united as the same kind.

Now all those things were united for good. But can unity be used also for evil? After the Flood, sinful human beings worked together to build a very tall tower, the Tower of Babel, so that they would not be washed away by a flood again. God saw that this unity was very strong. He said, “ ‘If as one people speaking the same language they have begun to do this, then nothing they plan to do will be impossible for them’ ” (Gen. 11:6, NIV). So He came down to earth to confuse their language to prevent them from continuing to construct the Tower of Babel. Thus, whether for a good or evil purpose, there is strength in unity.

While unity can be used for nefarious purposes, this lesson focuses on examples of true, biblical, godly unity. After all, from our very origins we see that God created humans with a unified purpose. The unity of Adam and Eve was an illustration of the unity that can be found in Christ. Paul says, “Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself for her” (Eph. 5:25, NKJV). And so “Christ is head of the church; and He is the Savior of the body” (Eph. 5:23, NKJV). Church unity is not merely a suggestion; it is an imperative that is foundational to the Christian life.

The church was created for a purpose. 1 Peter 2:9 says, “But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, His own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light” (NKJV). While studying this week’s lesson, let us remember that God has a divine purpose for the church in Christ.

---

_Richla Sabuin, Hong Kong_