---
title:  A Golden Chain of Love
date:  01/10/2018
---

**Testimony**: John 13:34, 35; 17:23–26; Eph. 4:15, 16

“Our Heavenly Father is a God of peace. When he created man he placed him in an abode of peace and security. All was unity and happiness in the garden of Eden.”1 But when humanity fell from His grace, this unity was ruined and people became trapped in sin.

Not all hope was lost. “As the Saviour’s humiliation for us is remembered, . . . the mind is energized to break down every barrier that has caused alienation. Evil thinking and evilspeaking are put away. Sins are confessed, they are forgiven. The subduing grace of Christ comes into the soul, and the love of Christ draws hearts together in a blessed unity.”2

“The golden chain of love, binding the hearts of the believers in unity, in bonds of fellowship and love, and in oneness with Christ and the Father, makes the connection perfect.”3

“Union brings strength; disunion, weakness. United with one another, working together in harmony for the salvation of men, we shall indeed be ‘laborers together with God.’ Those who refuse to work in harmony greatly dishonor God. The enemy of souls delights to see them working at cross purposes with one another. Such ones need to cultivate brotherly love and tenderness of heart”4 to achieve again the unity lost.

“When Christ’s prayer is fully believed, when its instruction is brought into the daily life of God’s people, unity of action will be seen in our ranks. Brother will be bound to brother by the golden bonds of the love of Christ. The Spirit of God alone can bring about this oneness. He who sanctified Himself can sanctify His disciples. United with Him, they will be united with one another in the most holy faith. When we strive for this unity as God desires us to strive for it, it will come to us.” 5

**React**

`How would you as an individual try to restore the unity of the church if the love that bound was smothered by selfishness and pride?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Spirit of Prophecy, vol. 2, p. 209.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 650, 651.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, Our High Calling, p. 173.</sup>

<sup>4. Ellen G. White, Counsels for the Church, p. 43.</sup>

<sup>5. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 8, p. 243.</sup>

_Angel Anne Ancaja Patalinghug, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_