---
title:  Abraham’s Seed
date:  02/10/2018
---

**Evidence**: Gen. 15:5, 6

In the book of Romans, Paul supports the doctrine of being “justified by faith” by quoting Scripture. Paul developed his claim by using the example of Abraham. As a prominent ancestor of the Jewish people, Abraham was revered as a model of righteousness and hospitality and as a champion of faith. The theme that Abraham served by faith, not by works, recurs throughout the New Testament. And by being justified by faith, Abraham received the sacred promise from God in Genesis 15:5, 6 that his descendants would be as countless as the stars in the sky.

By connecting to Christ we become Abraham’s spiritual descendants. Therefore, to remain as heirs and to claim our inheritance—God’s kingdom and life eternal—we need to remain a part of God’s family. That is why being united to the “family” is so important.

What does the metaphor “Abraham’s seed” mean? A seed is a link between one generation of life and another. It carries the DNA characteristics (both goodness and aberrations) from one generation to next. A seed in the plant kingdom not only links one generation to the next but also preserves life when conditions are harsh. Lastly, a seed’s main purpose is propagation. A single seed can generate and populate an entire forest! The trees in a forest can be as numerous as the stars in the sky.

This sacred promise (Gal. 3:29) made to Abraham brought into existence the bloodline of Jesus Christ Himself and His bride, the church. Abraham’s faith unites generations of believers to finish the plan of salvation. Further, it is our faith in Jesus and in His soon return that unites God’s people, not only with each other but also with the Lord Himself.

We are the chosen people; we are God’s segullah. The Hebrew word segullah, which means “treasured possession,” was the term used to describe Israel. As God’s segullah, our sole commission in the world is to remain united with each other as God’s family on earth. Only then can we claim to be “Abraham’s seed.”

**React**

`1. Sociologists tell us that a family is the most important unit of a society. Communities, societies, nations, and even civilizations collapse when the family structure is destroyed. How can unity within God’s family, the church, be preserved?`

`2. As God’s segullah, what are our duties?`

---

_Komal Nunfeli Swansi, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_