---
title:  Unity in Christ
date:  03/10/2018
---

**How-to**: John 17; Phil. 2:3; 1 Cor. 12:27; Eph. 4:2, 3

Jesus had one plan for Christians: unity in Christ. In John 17, Jesus prays before His crucifixion. Verse 11 states: “ ‘I will remain in the world no longer, but they are still in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, protect them by the power of your name, the name you gave me, so that they may be one as we are one.’ ” Yes, the “they” mentioned here addresses the disciples. But this prayer is not about the disciples only. Jesus continues His prayer, “ ‘My prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message’ ” (John 17:20, NIV). Jesus wants all who will believe in Him—regardless of generation, ethnicity, gender, and age—to be unified in faith.

Two important details bring us closer to unity:

Set God and His Word at the center of your life. A big hindrance we encounter as Christians is the temptation that comes from our sinful desires. Blinded by our greed, we tend to chase our desires rather than focus on God and depend on Him. Eventually, we will be dragged far away from God. Our priorities will shift to our physical possessions, and we will lose faith in God. How will this unify our thoughts and minds toward God? To avoid this, we always have to remember to set God and His words as our center and stay within God’s protection and blessing. The Bible says, “Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit” (Phil. 2:3, NIV).

Prioritize God as your guide. It is written in the Bible, “Now you are the body of Christ, and each one of you is a part of it” (1 Cor. 12:27, NIV). In order to properly function as a united body in Christ, all the individual parts must unify by being like-minded with Him. When God created humanity, He made them in His image and in His likeness. Therefore, God is the guide we all have to follow. “Be completely humble and gentle; be patient, bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace” (Eph. 4:2, 3, NIV). When we follow God as our guide, as believers, we can then properly function in unity as the body of Christ.

---

_Grace Moon, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_