---
title:  All for One and One for All
date:  04/10/2018
---

**Opinion**: Eph. 4:2

The value of this week’s lesson is to educate the church on the importance of coming together in love and unity. Paul tells us that we are to consider others’ needs before our own. In all modesty, humility, and lowliness of mind, we are to “be completely humble and gentle; be patient, bearing with one another in love” (Eph. 4:2).

In most Christian homes, churches, or even countries, authority is a main issue that causes chaos and disunity. Not everyone is always happy with the appointed leaders, which leads to fights and quarrels. Children rebel against the authority of the parents. Local church leaders agitate against the leaders in higher echelons of leadership. Citizens revolt against elected leaders of the nation.

Generally, what happens in the social or political arena influences the religious circle. The church risks being negatively influenced if the members do not open their hearts to the influence of the Holy Spirit. Being a Christian means renewing the mind with the Word of God so as to have the mind of Christ (Rom. 12:1, 2; Eph. 4:17, 18). Hence, the apostle Paul commanded the church members of Philippi: “Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. . . . Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus” (Phil. 2:2, 5).

When the church members have learned to love one another, they are able to obey the next command: “Have confidence in your leaders and submit to their authority because they keep watch over you as those who must give an account. Do this so that their work will be a joy, not a burden, for that would be of no benefit to you” (Heb. 13:17, NIV).

The Bible underscores the importance of “unity” and “oneness.” Unity with others is “good” and “pleasant” (Ps. 133:1). Unity is absolutely essential because the church is the “body of Christ” (1 Cor. 12:27), and a body cannot be in disunity or disharmony with itself. If disunity occurs, it essentially ceases to be a body and becomes a disjointed group of individuals. Jesus’ plan for His church is people unified in the faith.

Always remember that “united we stand, and divided we fall.” No man is an island.

---

_Ashley Natasha Odhiambo, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_