---
title:  One in Him
date:  05/10/2018
---

**Exploration**: Deut. 7:6, 11

**Conclude**

It is easy as human beings to feel alone at times. It may seem that we don’t belong. It is at such times that we should remember that we are never alone. Instead, we are part of a family, a family with a mission to carry on the “seed” from Abraham. A family begins in our personal lives and continues through the church. Human beings are strong when united for the same purpose. Imagine how much stronger we would be (spiritually) if we allowed God to work in our lives every day. He extends His invitation of mercy and salvation to all. It is up to us to accept it. Will we allow God to work in our lives so that we can invite others to know Jesus too? More than ever before, as followers of Jesus, we must seek the One because we are a holy people, chosen and special (Deut. 7:6). Let us choose to be one in Jesus Christ.

**Consider**

- Listening to “Side by Side” by the Heritage Singers, which invites us to stand as one, going wherever Jesus may lead, especially our final destination, which is heaven.
- Forgiving someone who has wronged you in the past, and, if possible, pray with this person so that you can be one in Him.
- Writing a poem or a song about being united in Christ.
- Organizing a spiritual retreat or Week of Prayer that focuses on unity in Christ.
- Thinking of two to three stories in the Bible that are about unity and writing a short summary that highlights the portions of the stories that focus on unity and how the various characters learned about unity. Show how what the characters learned applies to your life.
- Praying for unity in your home and church, including the worldwide church. Especially pray that God will work in your life to make you an influence that brings Christian unity.


**Connect**

John 17:23; Ephesians 4.

Ellen G. White, Our High Calling, p. 169; “Christian Unity,” Review and Herald, April 27, 1897.

Seventh-day Adventist Fundamental Belief Number 14, “Unity in the Body of Christ,” http://szu.adventist.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/28_Beliefs.pdf.

Benjamin F. Reaves, “What Unity Means to Me,” Adventist Review, December 4, 1986, pp. 18–20.

---

_Miguel Patino, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_