---
title:  Nothing Came From Itself
date:   17/10/2016
---

There are many good and powerful arguments in favor of God’s exis- tence. Besides the testimony of the created world, there’s also what’s called the cosmological argument. Basically, it’s the idea that nothing came from itself and that nothing created itself. Instead, whatever was created was created by something else before it, and whatever created that had to be created by something else before it. And this goes on and on until we stop at something uncreated, something that had always existed, something that never was not in existence. And who else would that be but the God depicted in Scripture?

What do the following texts teach us about the origin of all things? 

```Rev. 4:11```

```Col. 1:16, 17```

```John 1:1–3```

These texts teach what is really the most logical explanation for the Creation—an eternally existing God. Some thinkers, utterly opposed to the idea of God, have come up with an alternative suggestion. Instead of an all-powerful and eternal God creating the universe, we are told that “nothing” created it. Even such a famous scientist as Stephen Hawking, who now occupies the chair that Isaac Newton once held, argues that “nothing” created the universe.

“Because there is a law like gravity the universe can and will create itself from nothing.”—Stephen Hawking and Leonard Mlodinow, The Grand Design (New York: Random House, 2010), p. 180.

Though Hawking surely has plenty of deep and complicated math to describe his idea, one has to wonder: here we are, a good 400 years since the beginning of the scientific revolution, and one of the world’s best scientists is arguing that the universe and all that’s in it came from nothing? Error is error, even when spoken by a great scientist.
      
```In this context, read 1 Corinthians 3:19. Why is it always so important for Christians to keep this truth before us?```