---
title:  The Earliest of Books
date:   18/10/2016
---

Despite the hype of those who don’t believe in God, those who believe in God have many good reasons for their belief. However, there’s been one perennial problem that many have used through the ages to justify their disbelief, and that is the problem of human suffer- ing and evil. How can God be all-good, all-loving, and all-powerful, and allow evil to exist? This has been and remains a stumbling block to many. And also, if we are honest, what believer in God, what person who has tasted and experienced the reality of God and His love, hasn’t struggled at times with that question?

How interesting, then, that Ellen G. White also taught what Jewish tradition teaches: that Moses wrote Job in Midian. “The long years amid desert solitudes were not lost. Not only was Moses gaining a preparation for the great work before him, but during this time, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he wrote the book of Genesis and also the book of Job, which would be read with the deepest interest by the people of God until the close of time.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 3, p. 1140.

What this tells us is that of the first two books of the Bible ever penned, one of them, Job, deals with the universal issue of human pain and suffering. That is, God knew that this would be a big question for humans, and thus, right from the start, in the Word, He had Moses pen the story of Job. God let us know, early on, that we are not left alone in our pain and suffering but that He is there, He knows all about it, and we can have the hope that He will make it right in the end.

```What do the following texts teach us about the reality of evil? Matt. 6:34, John 16:33, Dan. 12:1, Matt. 24:7.```

However understandable the argument from evil against the existence of God, in light of the Scriptures it makes no sense. Though the Bible teaches the reality of an all-knowing, all-powerful, all-loving God, it also teaches the reality of evil, of human suffering and woe. Evil is not an excuse to disbelieve in God. In fact, a cursory reading of the book of Job shows that even amid his utter despondency, Job never questioned the existence of God. The question instead, and a valid one, is Why are these things happening to him?

```It’s only natural to have questions about the evil we see. How can we learn to trust in the goodness of God despite that evil?```