---
title:  The End of the Earth Is Near
date:   31/05/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Revelation 6:12–17; Matthew 24:37–39; 2 Peter 2:4–11; Jude 5–8; Ezekiel 16:46–50; Genesis 18:17–32; Daniel 7:9, 10, 13, 14, 22, 26, 27.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “These things happened to them to teach other people. They [these experiences and stories] were written in the holy writings to teach us who are living in the last days of the world [earth]. Therefore [so], when a person thinks, ‘I am strong; I can stand,’ let that person be careful, or he will fall” (1 Corinthians 10:11, 12, WE).

The Bible is filled with stories about God’s people. These stories help us better understand the end times and present truth. Present truth is the Bible truth that we need most for our time. Some of the Bible stories help us understand the end-time messages in the books of Daniel and Revelation.

In these Bible stories, we see how God led things to show us what will happen in the end times. Some of these stories include Sodom and Gomorrah and the Flood. These stories clearly explain what will happen during the end times. The meaning of other stories is not so plain. We need to read them more carefully to understand the Bible truths that God gives to us in them.

Over the next couple of weeks, we will study some important stories to see what they can teach us about the Second Coming, God’s work as judge, and other end-time happenings. As we shall see, Jesus is the most important part of these stories. Everything the Bible teaches us about the end times begins and ends with Jesus.