---
title:  The Lamb’s Anger
date:   01/06/2025
---

`Read about the people in Revelation 6:12–17. These people live during the end of earth’s history. What do you notice about the way they act and feel when they see what is happening?`

Do you see that the lost aren’t saying, “What’s going on?” or “What’s happening?” The lost seem to know exactly what’s happening. They name Jesus the Lamb, which means they know something about Jesus. The lost also seem to understand that the day of the Lamb’s anger has arrived. They ask, “ ‘Who can stand against it?’ ” (Revelation 6:17, ICB).

Before the end comes, God’s people will preach the Good News about Jesus to everyone on earth (Matthew 24:14). Everyone on the planet will hear about the Three Angels’ Messages. But some people won’t be ready. They heard the information that they needed so that they could be saved. But they refused to believe and obey it. That is the reason that some people will be lost in the end times.

`What lessons does Jesus tell us we should take from the story about Noah? Read Matthew 24:36–44 for the answer.`

Jesus uses the Flood story to warn us that His Second Coming will surprise many people. The Flood surprised the people living on the earth at the time, but not because they didn’t know anything about it. Noah preached for 120 years about the coming Flood to the people on the earth. But they refused to accept his message. Noah told the people what was going to happen. They just didn’t believe Noah.

The same thing will happen in the end times. People say that the earth is millions of years old. They believe that life on earth comes from changes that happened slowly over a very long time. So, they don’t believe the Bible’s messages about the end times. Peter talks about these people living in the end times: “In the last days [end times] people will make fun of the truth. They will laugh at it. They will follow their own evil desires [wishes]. They will say, ‘Where is this “return [Second Coming] he promised? Everything goes on in the same way it has since our people of long ago died. In fact, it has continued this way since God first created [made] everything’ ” (2 Peter 3:3, 4, NIrV).