---
title:  Noah’s Preaching
date:   02/06/2025
---

Peter tells us that many people won’t be ready for the Second Coming because they “don’t want to remember what happened long ago” (2 Peter 3:5, ERV) at the Flood. History shows us that many different people in the past believed in a worldwide flood. Both the Greeks during Bible times and the Mayans have a flood story. Today, many people make fun of the story about Noah and the Flood. The Bible says people in the end times will reject the Bible truth about the Flood.

`In Matthew 24:37–39, Jesus said that life on earth would be much the same as it was during Noah’s time. Compare Matthew 24:37–39 with Genesis 6:1–8. What sins caused the Flood? What happened during Noah’s life that also will happen at the end of earth’s history?`

Hebrews 11:7 tells us that Noah “built a large boat to save his family. With his faith, Noah showed that the world [everyone on earth] was wrong. And he became one of those [people] who are made right [accepted] with God through [because of] faith” (ERV).

Can you imagine in your mind preaching for a hundred years the same as Noah? When he was done, only his own family went into the boat with him. If Noah were a modern preacher, many people would say he failed.

At this time, our church is preaching the Three Angels’ Messages worldwide. Many people have accepted this message. They are coming to know the Lord. The Lord warns us that the time is coming when “His offer of mercy will come to an end. . . . Then the Savior’s final work in saving people will be finished.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 428, adapted.

Until that time, we as a church have work to do.

`How can we stay hopeful when other people don’t seem to listen to us about Jesus? Why must we continue to try our best anyway? (Read John 4:37.)`