---
title:  The Story About Sodom and Gomorrah
date:   03/06/2025
---

Peter tells another story about the end times: the story about Sodom and Gomorrah. These cities on the plain became famous for their evil and sin. Sodom and Gomorrah also became the first example of cities that God destroyed with fire from heaven.

`Read 2 Peter 2:4–11; Jude 5–8; and Ezekiel 16:46–50. What were some of the sins that caused God to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah? How are these two cities a symbol of the cities and the sins that are happening in them today?`

The story about Sodom and Gomorrah is a warning to the people living in the end times. God will destroy evil people with fire, as we read in Revelation 20. Sin causes us to be blind. When we are blind, we don’t see the evil in our own hearts. But we can see the evil in other people. The Jewish people became this way during the time of Ezekiel the prophet, God’s special messenger. God told His people that He loved them very much. At the same time, God warned Israel that they were worse than Sodom.

Israel was “cheating” on the Lord with other gods (Ezekiel 16:41). For sure, the people of Israel must have felt very surprised when they heard they were more guilty in God’s eyes than the people of Sodom.

Sad to say, we are the same today as Israel was in the past. In Romans 1:18–32, Paul gives us a long list of human evil. Paul talks about the sins that the non-Jewish people were doing. Paul doesn’t discuss other people’s sins to make God’s people feel better than the non-Jews. Paul wanted God’s people to understand that their own sins were very evil. Nathan the prophet did the same thing when he talked with King David. Nathan told David the story about a rich man who stole a lamb from a poor man. This story made David very mad (2 Samuel 12:5). But David didn’t understand the story was about him until Nathan told David, “ ‘You are that rich man!’ ” (2 Samuel 12:7, ERV).

We must remember that the Bible, for the most part, is written to God’s own people, and not to people who don’t believe in the Lord. When we read about the awful sins of the people in Revelation 13 and 17, we should see these sins as a warning. We must be careful. Or we can fall into the same trap of sin.