---
title:  The Judge of the Whole Earth
date:   04/06/2025
---

The Bible tells us an interesting story that happens just before Sodom is destroyed. This story happens on the plains of Mamre. God appears to Abraham. Two angels also are there with God. When Abraham sees them, he invites the visitors from heaven to a meal. Then God promises Abraham that Sarah will have a son. The promised Savior will be born from the future children of Abraham’s son. Jesus came from the line of Abraham (compare with Galatians 3:16). Then the story talks about the evil cities on the plain.

`Read Genesis 18:17–32. What do we learn from these verses about the love of God? How does God plan to solve the problem with evil on our planet?`

God doesn’t owe us an explanation about His actions. But He also chooses not to hide His reasons and plans from us. “When the Lord God decides to do something, he will first tell his servants, the prophets [special messengers]” (Amos 3:7, ERV).

Before God destroys Sodom and Gomorrah, He announces that the only right thing to do is to tell Abraham what is about to happen. Then Abraham will be ready for what he sees next.

God stays with Abraham while the two angels go to the evil city to warn the people to leave. This part of the story helps us remember the three angels in the book of Revelation who do the same in the end times. They invite God’s people who live in Babylon to leave (Revelation 14:6–12; Revelation 18:1–4). As the two angels give the final warning in Sodom, God discusses with Abraham what is about to happen. God allows Abraham to ask Him questions.

Abraham said, “ ‘May You never do such a thing as to destroy the good with the bad! May the good never be punished like [the same as] the bad! You would never do such a thing! Will not the Judge of all the earth do what is right?’ ” (Genesis 18:25, NLV). Abraham examines the crimes of Sodom. He also examines God’s love. In the same way, before God ends sin, He opens the books of heaven and allows us to look at them before He brings fire down on the earth (Revelation 20:4, 11–15). We will have 1,000 years to get all of the questions answered that, for now, we don’t have answers for.