---
title:  The Time When God Removes All Sin
date:   05/06/2025
---

Daniel 7 gives us a view of God’s work as Judge. We get to see how God will solve the sin problem while He saves the people who wish to live in a holy relationship with Him.

`Read what Daniel says about the time when God examines the lives of His people (Daniel 7:9, 10, 13, 14, 22, 26, and 27). What work does God do as Judge? What decision does God come to at the end of His work? What does this decision tell us about His plan to save sinners?`

God will judge all people. Ecclesiastes 12:14 tells us that “God will judge everything people do. That includes everything they try to hide. He’ll judge everything, whether it’s good or evil” (NIrV). Paul tells us that we don’t need to judge each other, because “we will all stand in God’s courtroom to be judged” (Romans 14:10, NIrV). Of course, God doesn’t need records to know who is saved or lost. From the beginning, angels have been examining God’s plan to save sinners (1 Peter 1:12). The angels will have questions. The angels saw Satan fight against God. They saw a third of heaven’s angels leave heaven to join Satan in his fight (Revelation 12:4). Now God brings us into His light and glory. God opens the record books and allows His saints to see everything.

Abraham asks God to show mercy to Sodom and Gomorrah. This story shows us some important Bible truths about God’s final work as Judge. God was examining the sins of Sodom. God says that the sins of the city were terrible. People cried out to God against the city (Genesis 18:20). God allowed Abraham to examine the guilt of Sodom and Gomorrah before He destroyed them. God also allowed Abraham to study His decision to destroy Sodom. Then Abraham could decide for himself if God was doing the right thing.

In the meantime, in Daniel 7, Jesus shows up in heaven’s courtroom (Daniel 7:13; also read Matthew 20:28). Jesus is the only reason that God judges in favor of His people. Jesus’ perfect life is the only thing that causes God to accept His people.

`Imagine in your mind that you stand in front of our holy God. He knows all your secrets. What’s your only hope? (Read Friday’s study for the answer.)`