---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   06/06/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Flood,” pages 101, 102, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“In our own strength, we can’t argue against Satan. Satan accuses us of sin. We stand in front of God in clothes that are covered with stains. These stains are the same as sin. In these clothes, we confess our guilt in front of God. Jesus is our lawyer. He goes to God for us. He asks God to help the people who have said they were sorry for their sins. These same people in faith have asked God for His protection. Jesus asks God to show them mercy. Jesus tells the Father to remember everything He did on Calvary. That is how Jesus wins the fight against Satan. Jesus’ perfect obedience to God’s law gives Him all power in heaven and on earth. Jesus asks His Father to show mercy for guilty sinners. Jesus brings them back to God.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 586, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus told His followers that they must live on this earth. But they must not be part of the evil on this earth. (Read John 15:19; John 17:14–16.) We must win people to Jesus. At the same time, we must keep ourselves “clean from the wrong things in the world [this life]” (James 1:27, WE). How do we do that?`

`What does Noah’s public preaching before the Flood teach us about how the worldwide war between good and evil works? In what ways do we do the same work today that Noah did in the past?`

`Before God destroys the lost with fire from heaven, He wakes the lost up from the dead. Then God allows Satan to work with them for a short while (Revelation 20:7–9). Why do you think that God allows this to happen before He makes everything new again?`

`Think about the stories we read this week. What lessons and warnings do these stories give you for your own life? What do these stories teach you about your hope in Jesus?`