---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 07/05/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Vineyard of the Lord,” pp. 15–22; “Hope for the Heathen,” pp. 367–378; and “The House of Israel,” pp. 703–721, in Prophets and Kings.

“No distinction on account of nationality, race, or caste, is recognized by God. He is the Maker of all mankind. All men are of one family by creation, and all are one through redemption. Christ came to demolish every wall of partition, to throw open every compartment of the temple courts, that every soul may have free access to God. His love is so broad, so deep, so full, that it penetrates everywhere. It lifts out of Satan's influence those who have been deluded by his deceptions, and places them within reach of the throne of God, the throne encircled by the rainbow of promise. In Christ there is neither Jew nor Greek, bond nor free.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 369, 370.

Read 1 Peter 2:9, 10 to discover the four titles Peter applies to the church. Most of these titles are reflected in the following Old Testament texts which refer to Israel: Exodus 19:6 and Isaiah 43:20. What does each of these titles emphasize about the church’s relationship to God? (For example, the title “chosen nation” emphasizes the fact that God chose the church and has a specific destiny for it.)

**Discussion Questions**:

`In ancient Israel, the priests made animal sacrifices that pointed to the Messiah. As members of a royal priesthood, what types of “sacrifices” are church members to make? (1 Pet. 2:5).`

`God separated Israel from the world so it could be a holy nation. They also were to share salvation truths with the world. The same is true for the church today. How is it possible to be separate from the world while at the same time be in a position to share the gospel with the world? How does Israel’s experience and Jesus’ example help us to answer this question?`

`God always maintained a remnant with ancient Israel. Consider Elijah and the remnant which existed during his time (1 Kings 19; note especially verse 18). Why is it often easier to be true to God in the midst of worldly people than in the midst of backsliding members of one’s own church family?`

**Summary**: God’s true Israel (whether before or after the Cross) is the Israel of faith, persons who live in a spiritual, covenant relationship with Him. Such function as His representatives, holding out to the world the gospel of His saving grace.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Faith and Works_, “What God Requires,” p. 52;

_Prophets and Kings_, “The House of Israel,” pp. 703–721. 	