---
title:  Remember! Do Not Forget!
date:  27/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 9:8–17; Deuteronomy 4:32–39; Deuteronomy 4:9, 23; Deuteronomy 8:7–18.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Remember how you made the Lord your God angry in the desert. Never forget that! From the day you left the land of Egypt to the day you came to this place, you have refused to obey the Lord’ ” (Deuteronomy 9:7, ERV).

TWO WORDS are written in the Bible again and again: “remember” and “forget.” Both words show us something that happens in our minds. Both words are verbs. They are also completely different from each other. “To remember” means we do not forget. “To forget” means we do not remember.

God often tells His people to remember everything He does for them. God asks His people to remember His mercy and that He is kind and good to His people. The Old Testament is filled with warnings from special messengers. They tell the Hebrew people not to forget the special work God gave them to do. Remembering God and His work is important. That is why the Psalm writer Asaph says, “Lord, I remember what you have done. I remember the amazing things you did long ago” (Psalm 77:11, ERV).

Are remembering the Lord and not forgetting His works any less important for us today? Of course they are important, both for us as persons and as a whole church.

This week, we will look at this important Bible truth in Deuteronomy. We will see why we should remember God and not forget His work in our lives.