---
title:  Remembering The Rainbow 
date:  28/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When is the first time we see the word “remember” in the Bible? The answer is Genesis 9. After the worldwide Flood, the Lord tells Noah that He will put His rainbow in the sky. The rainbow is proof of the agreement God makes with Noah. God will not destroy the earth again with water.

`Read Genesis 9:8–17. How is the word “remember” used in these verses? How does this meaning help us understand why we should remember everything the Lord does for us?`

Of course, God does not need the rainbow to remember His promise and agreement. God wants to communicate in language that humans can understand. So, God gives people the rainbow to help them remember His promise. Each time His people see the rainbow, they will remember that God judged the people on earth for their sins. The people also will remember God promised not to flood the earth again.

So, Genesis 9 shows us three important things to remember about God. We must remember (1) the promises of God, (2) His warnings, and (3) His work on this earth.

The rainbow in the sky is just as important for us today. Many scientists do not accept the Flood. These scientists say that the laws of nature show that a worldwide flood never happened. Many people had the same trust in the laws of nature before the Flood came. They said the laws of nature were stronger than God. So, they taught that a worldwide flood was not possible. Ellen G. White wrote about the wise men from that time. These men argued that the “laws of nature cannot be broken. God Himself cannot change them.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 97, adapted. So, in short, before the Flood, people said that the Flood never will come because of the laws of nature. After the Flood, the people say that because of these same laws of nature, the Flood never happened at all!

But God told us in the Bible about the Flood. He gave people a promise that He will not destroy the earth again with water. He wrote that promise across the sky in beautiful colors. If we remember what the rainbow means, we know we can trust the Bible. So, why not trust God to keep all His other promises in the Bible, too?

`Next time you see a rainbow, think about the promises of God. How can we learn to trust all of His promises?`