---
title:  “ ‘look At The Past’ ” 
date:  29/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Deuteronomy 4, we read the powerful warnings God gives to His people. God warns His people not to break His agreement. Or they will lose the blessings He gave them as His special people. So, they must stay loyal to God. What will help the people stay loyal? Obedience to God and remembering the love He showed them in the past. Moses tells the people to remember that God saved them from Egypt by “ ‘his power and strength. You saw the troubles that tested [showed what was in the hearts of] the people. You saw miracles and wonders. You saw war and the terrible [surprising] things that happened’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:34, ERV). For sure, God did many wonderful things for His people. He also did these things in a powerful way to help His people never to forget everything He did for them.

`Read Deuteronomy 4:32–39. What does the Lord tell His people to remember? Why is it so important that they remember these things?`

Moses asks the people to look at the past. Can they see a time when God did for anyone else what He did for them? Not at all! Moses wants the people to study history to see how much the Lord did for them. Then they will feel grateful and thankful for His mighty acts in their lives.

What was one of the most important acts God did for His people? He freed them from Egypt. Then even more surprising than that, God talked with them at Sinai. There, Moses says, “ ‘he let you see his great [mighty] fire, and he spoke to you from it’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:36, ERV).

`Read Deuteronomy 4:40. What does Moses want the people to understand in this verse about everything God has done for them?`

God freed His people from Egypt. Now they are about to enter the Promised Land. God kept His part of the agreement. Now the people must do their part. What is their part? They must obey God.

`How does this agreement show the new agreement God makes with us in the New Testament? What did Jesus do for us? What should we give to Him? (Read Revelation 14:12.)`