---
title:  Be Careful . . . Do Not Forget 
date:  30/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Deuteronomy 4:9, 23. What does the Lord in these verses tell His people to do? Why is this warning so important for His people?`

Two verbs get our attention right away in both verses: “be careful” and “do not forget.” What is the Lord really saying to His people here? “Do not forget what I have done for you. Do not forget the agreement I made with you.”

The verb “be careful” comes from the Hebrew word “smr.” (We also see “smr” used in Deuteronomy 4:9, where it means “ ‘keep watch over your life’ ” [NLV]). “Smr” is used all through the Old Testament. It means to “keep,” “to watch,” “to guard,” or “to protect.”  When is the first time in the Bible that “smr” is written in the Hebrew language? The first time is before sin ever happened. God tells Adam to “take care of” the garden He gave Him (Genesis 2:15, ERV).

In Deuteronomy 4, the Lord tells each of His people to be careful not to forget. God is not warning His people about not losing their memory. God wants His people not to forget His agreement. The people must not become lazy. They always must remember who they were. They also must remember how God wants them to live in front of other Hebrews, strangers, and the people from the countries around them.

Read again Deuteronomy 4:9 (read also Deuteronomy 6:7 and Deuteronomy 11:19). Look at the last part. Moses talks to the people about teaching their children and grandchildren about everything God did in the past for them. How will doing that help the people not to forget?

For sure, the future children of Israel needed to know about everything God did for His people in the past. At the same time, the people who tell the stories again and again get a blessing, too. This experience helps them always to remember all the wonderful things God has done for them.

`Have you told other people the story about all the wonderful things the Lord did for you? If yes, how has this experience helped them? How has telling your story helped you not to forget the way the Lord led you in the past?`