---
title:  When You Have Eaten And Are Full 
date:  01/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Deuteronomy 8:7–18. What does the Lord in these verses warn His people about? Why is this warning important for us today, too?`

Look at all the blessings the people will get if they obey God. God will give them a wonderful and rich land: “ ‘There you will have plenty of food and everything you need’ ” (Deuteronomy 8:9, ERV). God also will bless His people with so much more. God will give His people flocks, gold, silver, and beautiful houses. The Lord will give the Israelites everything good in this life and a lot of it.

But then, what? The people of God will be in danger. Everyone who gets riches in this life will face this danger. The Israelites will be in danger of forgetting that the Lord is the reason they have “ ‘power [skill] to become rich. By this [blessing] He may keep His agreement which He promised to your fathers’ ” (Deuteronomy 8:18, NLV).

Maybe their forgetting will not happen right away. But as the years go by, the people will forget their past. They will have all the comforts in life they need. So, they will forget how the Lord led them “ ‘through the big desert you saw which fills people with fear’ ” (Deuteronomy 1:19, NLV). They will think that their own smartness and talents made them a success.

God warns them not to let this bad thing happen. But as we see later in the Bible, the people do the very thing that God warns them not to do.

So, during the time when the people are a success, Moses warns them to remember that the Lord is the only reason for their success. Moses warns the people not to be tricked by the blessings God gave them. Hundreds of years later, Jesus will give the same warning as Moses about riches. We see this warning in the picture story Jesus tells about the man who plants seeds. Jesus warns us not to be tricked by “ ‘a love for riches’ ” (Mark 4:19, NLV).

`Maybe some of us have a lot of money and many beautiful things in this life. Whatever we have, we must remember: we will all die someday, unless Jesus comes back first. What should this Bible truth tell us about the dangers that riches bring? How can riches make us forget our need of the only One who can save us from death?`