---
title:  Remember That You Were A Slave 
date:  02/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Deuteronomy 5:15; Deuteronomy 6:12; Deuteronomy 15:15; Deuteronomy 16:3, 12; and Deuteronomy 24:18, 22. What does the Lord want His people never to forget?`

All through the Old Testament, the Lord wants His people to remember that He freed them from Egypt. To this day, many Jews celebrate this time, named the Passover. As Moses tells the people, “ ‘You must remember to do this even when you go to the land the Lord is giving you. When your children ask you, ‘Why are we doing [keeping] this ceremony [holy day]?’ you will say, ‘This Passover is to honor the Lord, because when we were in Egypt, he passed over the houses of Israel. He killed the Egyptians, but he saved the people in our houses’ ” (Exodus 12:25–27, ERV).

Today, the Passover shows us how we are saved. As Paul explains this idea in 1 Corinthians 5:7. , “Let us then remember the feast of Passover and have our bread. But let us not have our feast with old yeast in the bread. To do bad and wrong things is like [the same as] that old yeast. But let us have it with new bread that has no old yeast in it. To be honest and true [loyal] is like the new bread” (1 Corinthians 5:7, WE).

`Read Ephesians 2:8–13. What does Paul in these verses tell the non-Jewish Christians to remember? How do these verses show us the same thing that Moses in Deuteronomy wants the Hebrews to remember?`

Paul wants the Ephesians to remember that God saved them from sin. God forgave the Ephesians and showed them His mercy. Now these Christians have many rich blessings. But Paul tells the Ephesians they have nothing to brag about. Their good behavior did not earn them the favor of God. This favor is a gift.

Whoever we are, we always must remember what God did for us in Jesus. These words can help us do that: “Spend an hour each day thinking about the life of Jesus. Make a picture in your mind of each part of His life. Most of all, think about the closing moments of His life. When you think about the death of Jesus for you on the cross, your trust in God will grow stronger. Your love will grow deeper. Then you will be filled more deeply with His love.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 83, adapted.