---
title:  Further Thought
date:  03/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“God put the beautiful rainbow in the clouds. God came down to our level when He gave us this gift. He wanted to show us sinners just how much He loved us. So, He put the rainbow in the sky as proof of His agreement with humans! The Lord announces what He will do when He sees the rainbow. He will remember His agreement. Does this announcement show us that God will forget His promise sometimes? Not at all! God communicates to us in words that help us to understand Him better. God had a plan for the rainbow. In the future the children and grandchildren of His people will see the rainbow. Then they will ask their parents about it. Their parents should then tell their children the story about the Flood. They should tell their children that God Most High bent the rainbow and put it in the clouds. The rainbow was a promise. It showed humans that God will never again drown the earth in water. So, from then on, the rainbow always will show the love that God has for the human family. This love will cause humans to trust God more deeply.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 106, 107, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How do riches and success change our spiritual life? What are ways we can protect ourselves from some of the spiritual dangers that come from money and owning a lot of stuff?`

`In class, talk about the final moments in the life of Jesus. What do these moments show us about the love of God for us? Why must we never forget how much God loves us? What other things can you think of that show that God is good and loves us so much? Why should we always keep these things in our minds?`

`Some scientists say there was no worldwide Flood. Other scientists say God did not make the earth. The Bible tells us that both these things happened. (Plus, the Sabbath also shows us that God made the earth and sky in six days.) What do the ideas of these modern scientists show us about how powerful and dangerous our ways of life, thinking, beliefs, and ideas can be when they do not come from the Bible?`