---
title:  Arguing in Church at Philippi
date:   18/01/2026
---

`What caused members to argue in the church at Philippi? What does Paul say will solve the problem? Read Philippians 2:1–3 for the answer.`

For sure, the problems in the church made Paul sad. Paul loved the church so much. He started the church in Philippi. Of course, the fighting in the church hurt his heart. Paul warns the Philippians not to be selfish or filled with pride, the same as church leaders in Rome (Philippians 1:17). These leaders cared more about getting ahead or being important. They cared less about helping the cause of Jesus.

Paul warns against a selfish heart and the sin of pride (Galatians 5:20). James also says, “If you are jealous of other people and you want to make yourself important, that will cause trouble. People will argue and fight against one another [each other]. They will do all kinds of bad things” (James 3:16, EASY). People who are filled with pride think they are more important than they really are. That’s why Paul writes in another letter, to the Galatians, “We must not feel proud [pride] and boast [brag] about ourselves. We must not cause trouble for each other or be jealous of each other” (Galatians 5:26, ERV).

Paul makes a list of things we can do to solve these problems:

1. **The Example of Jesus.** Paul shows how Jesus’ life is a powerful example against the sins of the heart.
2. **Love.** Jesus shows us God’s love. Jesus commands us to “ ‘love each other, in the same way that I have loved you’ ” (John 15:12, EASY).
3. **Fellowship With the Holy Spirit.** The Holy Spirit helps church members to be close in their hearts to each other. The early church enjoyed this close fellowship (Acts 2:42; compare 2 Corinthians 13:14).
4. **A Kind Heart.** Jesus showed love and forgiveness in His life (read Matthew 9:36; Matthew 20:34; and Mark 1:41). He taught love and forgiveness in His picture stories about the Good Samaritan (Luke 10:33) and the Lost Son (Luke 15:20).
5. **Mercy.** Jesus showed mercy. The lives of His followers will show mercy, too (Luke 6:36).
6. **Working Together for Peace.** As Paul says, we must “think and act as Jesus did” (Philippians 2:5, NIrV).