---
title:  Working Together For Peace in the Church
date:   19/01/2026
---

The religious leaders taught that our behavior was im­portant. But Jesus said that correct behavior didn’t make a man clean and innocent. Bad things start in the heart and in the mind. We see this teaching in the story about Jesus and the rich young man. The rich young man told Jesus that he kept the law his whole life. So, Jesus gave the rich young man a test to show him what was in his heart. Jesus asked the rich young man to sell everything he owned, give the money to the poor, and follow Him. Jesus also said, “ ‘Evil thoughts come out from people’s minds. As a result [because evil starts in the heart], they [people] do wrong things. They murder [kill] people. They have sex with another man’s wife. They have sex in other wrong ways. They rob people. They tell lies about other people. They insult people’ ” (Matthew 15:19, EASY).

`What must we do to have peace in the church? Read Philippians 2:3, 4 for the answer.`

Paul’s advice includes emptying our hearts of all pride. We must not think we are more important than other people. We also must care about other people’s needs and not just our own. Easier said than done, right? But if we follow these important rules, they will help improve all of our relationships. We also must learn to listen. Often, in our conversations, we want to do all the talking. But we must listen first to understand what the other person is saying. Try to understand his side before you expect him to understand your side. We can avoid many fights and misunderstandings if we listen first. We may not always agree. But when we listen and try to understand the other person first, we can build healthy communication and trust in our relationships and in our church.

Paul talks about how the Holy Spirit helps us cooperate together (Ephesians 4:3). When we agree to work together, we get peace from God. This peace joins us together in faith and love (Ephesians 4:3). If we are fighting in the church, the Holy Spirit can help us stop. He can bring peace. Paul also talks about our need to agree about Jesus and the teachings of our faith (Ephesians 4:13). When we know Jesus and His teachings, we will have the same understanding about Bible truth. When we have this understanding, then the church will be united.