---
title:  Mind Control
date:   20/01/2026
---

Many companies today are trying to connect computers with the human brain. Scientists hope to use the computers to change our thoughts. Some scientists promise to use computers to help people beat disease. For sure, that’s a good idea, right? But just think about all the evil ways people could use these computers to control the human brain.

In many ways, our minds work the same as a computer, only better. Each day new information, knowledge, and ideas enter our brains. This information can change our thoughts and behavior. When we watch a lot of TV, we see the way that people act and think. Soon, we start to think and behave the same way as the actors do. In a way, it’s as if their thoughts and ideas are “planted” into our brains!

Jesus wants us to allow the Holy Spirit to control our minds (Romans 8:6). We can let the Holy Spirit control us. Or we can let human ideas control us (1 Corinthians 2:11, 12). Who will teach us? What are we learning?

`What does it mean to “think and act like [the same as] Christ Jesus” (Philippians 2:5, ICB)?`

In the end, we can decide what to think. But we can’t change our hearts. Only God can change us. The Holy Spirit is the same as a doctor who must “operate” on our hearts. The Bible is a powerful tool that the Holy Spirit uses to help us see inside our hearts: “God’s message to us is alive and powerful. It is like [the same as] a sword that has two sharp edges. Even more than a sword, God’s message goes very deep into us. It cuts between our soul [mind; thoughts] and our spirit. It is like a sharp knife that can cut deep into our body between our bones. God’s message shows what we are really thinking. It shows what we really want” (Hebrews 4:12, EASY). Without the Holy Spirit’s help, we can’t know who we really are. Our own hearts trick us (Jeremiah 17:9). The Hebrew word for “lies or tricks” is “ ‘aqov.” This word means bumpy ground that causes us to trip and fall. The Bible uses this word to help us understand that we can’t trust our own thoughts. We need the Bible to change our hearts and minds first. “Then you will understand what God wants you to do. You will know what is good. You will know what pleases God. You will know what is completely right” (Romans 12:2, EASY).