---
title:  Thinking the Same Way that Jesus Thinks
date:   21/01/2026
---

Muhammad Ali bragged, “I am the best fighter on earth.” In 1963, Ali won the worldwide boxing championship. Six months earlier, Ali made a record album. The name of the album was “I Am the Greatest [Best].” For sure, Ali was a very good fighter. But he’s not an example for Christians to follow. Not if they want to think the way Jesus thinks.

Jesus was perfect and free from sin. Jesus “knows that we sometimes want to do wrong things. The Devil tried to make him do all those same kinds [types] of wrong things. But Jesus never did anything wrong” (Hebrews 4:15, EASY). Jesus didn’t sin with His thoughts. At the same time, Jesus “still [anyway] suffered, and through [because of] his sufferings he learned to obey whatever God says” (Hebrews 5:8, ERV). Jesus always obeyed His Father, even when obeying was not easy.

`Philippians 2:5–8. What is Paul saying to us in these beautiful and powerful verses? What do they mean for us? How do we live this Bible truth in our lives?`

Jesus is God. But He became a man. More than that, Jesus became a servant. In Philippians 2:5–8, the word written as “servant” comes from the word “doulos.” Another name for a “doulos” in the English language is a slave. Jesus became human and a servant. Then He gave Himself as an offering for our sins! In another letter, Paul says, “The law says we are under a curse for not always obeying it [the law]. But Christ took away [removed] that curse. He changed places with us [became our substitute] and put himself under that curse” (Galatians 3:13, ERV). The God who made us also died for us on the cross. He also is our Savior. To save us, Jesus needed to become a curse for us.

How can we start to understand what Paul is saying? How do we do what he tells us to do in these verses? How can we follow Jesus and empty our hearts of all pride? How can we give our lives to help other people?

Jesus also said, “ ‘The person among you who is most important will be your servant. Some people lift [honor] themselves [their own selves] up to be important. But God will bring them down low. Other people are humble [with no pride]. God will lift up [honor] those people’ ” (Matthew 23:11, 12, EASY). These words help us understand better Paul’s words in Philippians 2:5–8.