---
title:  The Secret of Our Life of Worship
date:   22/01/2026
---

`What did Jesus give up when He became human? Read Romans 8:3; Hebrews 2:14–18; and Hebrews 4:15 for the answer.`

Jesus, the Son of God, became a human baby, with the Holy Spirit’s help. How did this happen? How could Someone who was everlasting become Someone who could die? This mystery is part of what Paul says is “the secret of our life of worship” (1 Timothy 3:16, ERV).

In Philippians 2, Paul talks more fully about the things that Jesus did to become one of us:

1. **“He was like [the same as] God in every way”** (Philippians 2:6, ERV). The words “like God in every way” come from the Greek word “morphē.” “Morphē” shows us that Jesus was God (compare John 1:1).
2. **“He chose to leave heaven”** (Philippians 2:7, EASY). Or as the NIrV Bible says, “He made himself nothing” (Philippians 2:7) and “became a servant” (Philippians 2:7, WE). Jesus let go of His power and honor as God to become a real human. Jesus understands how we feel when Satan tries to get us to sin.
3. **“He humbled himself [emptied His heart of all pride]”** (Philippians 2:8, ICB). After Jesus became human, He made Himself a servant. Compare Jesus with Lucifer. Jesus came to serve, but Lucifer wanted control.
4. **“He was even willing to die, yes, to die on a cross”** (Philippians 2:8, WE). The worst way to die in Jesus’ day was on a cross. Jesus chose this death for Himself. God the Father and Jesus planned His death on the cross. God the Father and Jesus the Son made the decision “together in peace” (Zechariah 6:13, ERV). The Father and Jesus showed their plan to the Israelites hundreds of years before Jesus died on the cross. The snake on the pole was the symbol for Jesus’ death. Moses made this snake from brass and lifted it on a pole high above the earth. This snake showed the saving work that Jesus came to this earth to do (Numbers 21:9; John 3:14). As Paul explains: “Christ [Jesus] never did any wrong thing, but God punished him as if he had. He [Jesus] died as punishment for our sins. As a result [because of these things], we become right [accepted] with God when we belong to Christ. We become right, because he [Jesus] is right” (2 Corinthians 5:21, EASY).