---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   23/01/2026
---

“We must become students of Jesus. What shall we learn from our Savior? Will He teach our hearts to become filled with pride? Will we learn that we are wonderful and better than other people? Of course not! The more that Jesus teaches us, the more we shall empty our hearts of all pride. We must not think that we know everything worth knowing. God gave us skills and talents. What is the best way to use these skills and talents for Him? When God changes us and gives us bodies that will live forever, we won’t forget about the good things we learned in this life. We will take this knowledge with us to heaven. There, we will live forever with Jesus. We will study about Jesus and His work as our Savior forever.”—Ellen G. White, Manuscript 36, 1885, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`What did you learn about God’s love? What experience did you have that showed you that God’s love is real? In class, talk about the different ways you learned about God’s love.`

`What does it mean that Jesus “gave up his place with God and made himself nothing. He was born as a man and became like [the same as] a servant” (Philippians 2:7, ICB)? Compare Romans 8:3. Discuss Philippians 2:7 with Romans 8:3. How are these verses both the same? How are they different? What do both verses teach us about Jesus?`

`This week, we studied about our need for working together for peace in the church. What problems stop your church from finding peace together? Paul gives us some powerful advice to help us when we are in trouble: “In the way that you live, do not just try to help yourself. Do not be proud [filled with pride in your heart]. Instead [but], respect other people. Think about other people as more important than yourself” (Philippians 2:3, EASY). How can this advice help us, as a church, to solve our problems?`