---
title:  Offerings of Gratitude
date:   24/02/2018
---

**Introduction:** 1 Pet. 4:10

### Mustard Yellow

Finishing up my medical residency, I prepared for a yearlong fellowship in Baltimore. My husband and I rented our house out to an international student who had just finished up at Yale University. She seemed to be a perfect tenant. We had barely gotten to Baltimore, though, when the young woman called . . . with news that her work visa was not in order and she had to immediately return to her home country.

**Stewardship begins with the basic principle that nothing we have is ours.**

The first month’s rent and deposit she’d paid got us through July and part of August, but we were soon desperate for a renter who could commit for a full year. Finally, a middle-aged couple decided they wanted our place— pending a list of exacting requests. We moved out the washer and dryer, emptied the attic, and let them paint our house a mustard shade of yellow. It wasn’t ideal, but the mortgage wouldn’t pay for itself, so we agreed.

As we prepared to return home a year later, we learned that not every room had been painted the shade we’d agreed to and that the carpet needed some severe cleaning. We had our tenants repaint our upstairs bathroom to cover a ghastly orange, and the renters’ deposit paid for a good carpet scrubbing. We still didn’t like the mustard yellow that now covered our house, or how haphazardly it had been applied, but we thanked God for working out our whole situation.

Being a good steward is caring for something like it’s your own. Stewardship begins with the basic principle that nothing we have is ours. It’s all been entrusted to us by God. Once we understand and accept that principle, the concept of stewardship is easy to understand and apply.

How does God feel when we abuse our bodies and minds, stain His earth, and leave stains and scars on each other? If we look at it from the perspective that God has entrusted our minds, bodies, families, church, and even the earth itself to us until His return, we see that to be a good steward is to care for these things. With that perspective, we can use every bit to the glory of God.

In 2 Corinthians 9:6, Paul counsels, “Remember this: Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously will also reap generously” (NIV). Each of us has different resources—time, health, wealth, connections, talents, and more. They are all gifts of God for our well-being yet also assets we can use to God’s glory. Let’s make the most of them today.

_Lisa Hermann, Nashville, Tennessee, USA_

