---
title:  “Where Your Treasure Is”
date:   25/02/2018
---

**Logos:** Matt. 6:19–21; Luke 21:1–4; 2 Cor. 5:7; Heb. 10:34

**Walking by Faith (2 Cor. 5:7)**

People often imagine that all one needs to attain a goal is some winning formula or procedure, a lucky charm or incantation. Conversely, many Christians fear that their salvation may be lost based on some simple foul-up, categorically applied. They practically imagine God going down a checklist of right and wrong behavior and noting, “Forgot to wear a tie to church, December 16, 2017—Denied.”

**When it comes to matters of stewardship—of time, energy, and money—Jesus calls for total commitment.**

The Bible paints a picture of salvation based on relationship, not ritual. From Isaiah’s denouncement of ill-intentioned offerings and Sabbath keeping (1:11, 13) to Jesus’ warning that “ ‘not everyone who says to me, “Lord, Lord,” will enter the kingdom of heaven’ ” (Matt. 7:21, NIV), it’s clear that faith is not a to-do list but an ongoing attitude, rooted in relationship. It’s one that leads to character growth and a deeper connection with and understanding of our heavenly Father, but we must not confuse the outgrowth of faith with faith itself. Faith is trusting in the big picture God has painted when the small details just don’t seem to add up.

Most Christians have heard Paul’s words “For we walk by faith, not by sight” (2 Cor. 5:7, NRSV) so many times that it sounds cliché. The truth is, the world offers no guarantees. We can plan our lives to the nth degree, but, ultimately, trusting God is the only way that offers any true surety. When it comes to matters of stewardship—of time, energy, and money—Jesus calls for total commitment. Our businesses may falter. Our health may shatter. Our time may slip away. Yet, when we give God our work, wealth, and strength, He returns a far greater dividend than any investment we could make on our own. Many Christians find that following Jesus makes their life more complicated, more fraught with difficulty and uncertainty; yet Jesus sustains them. Money stretches; the Spirit enlivens them; and God provides for all their needs, immeasurably.

**A Mighty Widow (Luke 21:1–4)**

It’s a stunning, poignant scene that starts out as mundane. In the temple with His disciples, just a few days before the religious establishment will have Him killed, Jesus watches as the elite make conspicuous displays of their wealth through large donations.

A far more humble moment, however, catches Jesus’ eye. A widow, who has lost family, property, status, and wealth—all the elements she counted on for survival—places what meager resources she has left in the collection box. The wealthy have given to show off and elevate their status, with plenty left over to live lavishly. Each of the widow’s “two mites” equal a tenth of an hour’s wage—the smallest amount of money imaginable. For the wealthy, two mites was money they might walk right past on the street. For the widow, it was all she had left.

Jesus declares that the widow “has put in more than all.” It is a comment in line with so many other words of Jesus and Scripture—“ ‘Blessed are the poor in spirit’ ” (Matt. 5:3, NIV); “Whoever is kind to the poor lends to the Lord” (Prov. 19:17, NIV); the parable of the great banquet (Luke 14:12–14)—yet something about this scene stands out. The personal quality and touch, as Jesus elevates the meekest of women to the highest possible honor, reminds us that “ ‘the Lord does not look at the things people look at. People look at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart’ ” (1 Sam. 16:7, NIV). This brings to mind another familiar verse: “ ‘For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also’ ” (Matt. 6:21, NIV). Much recent research has found that spending money on experiences, rather than material possessions, provides greater, longer-lasting happiness. While common sense might suggest that a fleeting moment would foster less enduring happiness than a tangible product you can return to again and again, research has found that material goods, no matter how dazzling, just become “wallpaper” to us. When we invest in friendships, moments, and God’s kingdom, we dig a well we can drink from again and again.

**Motivation Check (Prov. 16:2; Matt. 6:1–4; 1 Cor. 4:5; 2 Cor. 9:7)**

“The Lord loves a cheerful giver”—but the mortgage is coming due. We should return our tithes and offerings—but can we trust humans to spend it well?

It’s easy to get practical, and cynical, about stewardship, yet the same God who chooses to accomplish His goals through human vessels—you and me included—invites us to give with joy.

Then there’s this advice: “ ‘Be careful not to practice your righteousness in front of others to be seen by them. If you do, you will have no reward from your Father in heaven’ ” (Matt. 6:1, NIV). Few words from Jesus cut to the bone—and the heart—like these. God sees past our external posturing. A fancy suit (God is good!). A coveted church off ice (I’m just glad I can give back). Paul declares that what is hidden, God will bring to light—including our motives (1 Cor. 4:5). When we serve God, let us do so with love, gratitude, and an eagerness to better others’ lives. When we do, it will help grow inside of us the only joy that lasts.

**REACT**

`1. How can serving God—and others—build your happiness?`

`2. Why does God ask for a tenth of our money and a seventh of our time? What might make these measures ideal starting points?`

`3. How can we balance serving others with our own needs? What is the best way to “love your neighbor as yourself”?`

_Tompaul Wheeler, Nashville, Tennessee, USA_

