---
title:  Paying Versus Giving
date:   26/02/2018
---

**Testimony:** Num. 18:28; Matt. 23:23

“God has made the proclamation of the gospel dependent upon the labors and the gifts of His people. Voluntary offerings and the tithe constitute the revenue of the Lord’s work. Of the means entrusted to man, God claims a certain portion,—the tenth. He leaves all free to say whether or not they will give more than this. But when the heart is stirred by the influence of the Holy Spirit, and a vow is made to give a certain amount, the one who vows has no longer any right to the consecrated portion.”1

**“Of the means entrusted to man, God claims a certain portion,—the tenth.”**

The last summer before grad school, I had the opportunity to go on a three-week mission trip to Mexico. Cancun, Mexico, no less. I decided to go (it was a no-brainer) and raised the money within a few weeks.

I could share so many experiences, but one conversation has stayed with me. I was riding with one of the local pastors and two students. Somehow, our conversation turned to the subject of tithes and offerings and the Adventist Church in the United States.

My Spanish is conversational but far from perfect. I explained to the pastor about the process of gift giving within the church and the general practices I had observed. Then, I asked about the practices surrounding tithe in Mexico. Now, remember, my Spanish isn’t perfect. In my experience, the expressions “pay tithe” and “give tithe” have been used interchangeably within the church, literature, and in conversation. So, when I asked the pastor, I autopiloted to the former: “pay tithe and offering.”

The pastor answered, “Well, first off, none of us ‘pay tithe and offering.’ We give it. It is already the Lord’s, so how could we ever pay it? We give it back.” I don’t remember anything else about what he said during that drive.

Now I wonder whether my nonspecific language—that is, whether I “pay” my tithe and offering or “give” it—affects the way I see God in relation to myself. Does it affect my humility in response to His goodness?

“The Lord does not need our offerings. We cannot enrich Him by our gifts. Says the psalmist: ‘All things come of Thee, and of Thine own have we given Thee.’ Yet God permits us to show our appreciation of His mercies by selfsacrificing efforts to extend the same to others. This is the only way in which it is possible for us to manifest our gratitude and love to God. He has provided no other.”2

<sub>1. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 74.</sub>

<sub>2. Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, pp. 18, 19.</sub>

_Yaniz Seeley, Ooltewah, Tennessee, USA_

