---
title:  How Far Do We Go to Love?
date:   27/02/2018
---

**Evidence:** Matt. 25:40

The moment Jesus died, humanity was confronted with the magnanimous extreme of a denied ego. Before, you could theoretically talk about selflessness, but what did it actually look like? What is the limit to one’s benevolence? It is possible to look at Jesus’ selfless sacrifice from a purely selfish perspective where we appreciate the death of Jesus only in the light of how He has saved us. In other words, the very same event that demonstrated perfect “others centered” love can result in the danger of self-engrossment. We are in danger of making His sacrifice a means to our own ends.

**Stewardship is grace. Stewardship is love.**

Yet, we are invited to “contemplate” (NIV) and “behold” (NKJV) Him. By doing so, we will be “transformed” into His image (2 Cor. 3:18, NKJV). What is it about that particular action that is so important?

Let’s look at Him for a moment—not to try to experience something but simply to study Him almost scientifically. As we visit the many episodes in His life, we encounter Someone amazingly unique. Jesus spoke of a love previously (and since then) practically unknown. He preached and encouraged the death of self. He taught about the highest ideals of what it means to love: “ ‘ “Love your neighbor as yourself” ’ ” (Matt. 22:39, NIV). “ ‘Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you’ ” (Luke 6:27, NIV). “ ‘Greater love has no one than this: to lay down one’s life for one’s friends’ ” (John 15:13, NIV). The act that took Him to the cross was the completion of a lifetime of building, encouraging, healing, and doing good. Moments before His last breath, His thoughts were on the very people who put Him to death, seeking their absolution.

How far does one go to practice love? Well, it seems, as far as the grave. This is what true stewardship is all about. In a hate-infested world, where even self-proclaimed Christians call out for death and destruction, Jesus stands as the epitome of peace and love. This is what it means to be “ like” Him, to be “transformed” into that same “image.” The world should see Him as He is. The world would learn how to love a neighbor, no matter the color, race, or religion. When we use our talents to visit those in prison, feed the hungry, clothe the naked, and care for those who are suffering, we begin to emulate the Man on the cross—and the world is changed. We have entered the kingdom of God. We have truly become “faithful servant[s].”

Stewardship is grace. Stewardship is love.

**REACT**

`Who else in the Bible lived a life of love as Jesus did?`

_Werner Carrasco, Roseville, California, USA_

