---
title:  Be Like Arland Williams
date:   28/02/2018
---

**How-to:** Matt. 4:1–11; Mark 10:2–12; 14:43–45; Rom. 3:23

On January 13, 1982, Air Florida Flight 90 nose-dived into the icecoated Potomac River. A United States Park Police helicopter arrived on site and began to drop a rescue ring to the few freezing crash survivors.

One of the first to receive the life ring was Arland Williams, but Williams passed the life ring off to the next passenger. Again and again he allowed others to be rescued ahead of him. By the time every other survivor had climbed aboard the helicopter, Williams had succumbed to the frigid grip of the Potomac.

**In the ultimate moment, He gave us His “life ring.”**

When Jesus came to Earth, He stepped into a world of sin (Rom. 3:23). Jesus grew weary; He was tempted in the wilderness (Matt. 4:1–11), tested by the Pharisees (Mark 10:2–12), and ultimately betrayed by His inner circle (Mark 14:43–45).

Jesus could have grabbed the “life ring” and fled the darkness of our world, but He remained, standing by those who floundered in darkness, sin, sorrow, depression, and loneliness. He remained with those who would be lost. Then, in the ultimate moment, He gave us His “life ring.”

In the heat—or numbing chill—of the moment, the way forward can seem daunting. We may freeze in our tracks, not knowing which way to turn or how to show Jesus to someone overcome by the world’s pain and trials. How can we trust in Jesus and share His “life ring” with others?

Be careful how you approach a situation. We sometimes can’t comprehend the horrible sorrow and darkness that can engulf a friend, loved one, or stranger. We must take great care when offering assistance and advice.

Know when it is best to seek outside help. We must know when it is time to step away from a situation and seek outside avenues of assistance.

Always pray. We do not know God’s plans for us. What we perceive as a correct choice or path may not be. This is true for those we are trying to aid and in our own lives (1 Thess. 5:16–18).

**REACT**

`1. What have you done this week to step outside your world to help another, even if on a small scale? (Mark 10:13–16).`

`2. Have we been kind to do those that do us wrong, mock us, or rebuke us? (Luke 23:34).`

_Johanna Bjork, Bismarck, North Dakota, USA_