---
title:  Reckless Generosity
date:   01/03/2018
---

**Opinion:** 2 Cor. 9:6; James 4:12

When my mother gives money, she likes to roll up her bills into little cylinders—making it hard to see how much is being offered. One day she ran into a roadside panhandler and offered him cash. He saw one dollar, but my mother was actually offering two dollars rolled up.

Disdainfully, the man said to her, “I’ve been here all day and all you’re going to give me is one dollar?”

**Ingratitude makes it hard to receive and appreciate God’s blessings.**

My mother was shocked by the demanding tone from the beggar. She chuckled and reached into her purse, pulled out her remaining dollar, and gave him all three. “That’s better,” he said.

Ungratefulness permeates our consumerist society and infects both the roadside beggar and the pew-sitting saint. Ungratefulness is wicked because it says to God: “What you offer me is not good enough. You are giving me one dollar, but I deserve more for all of my hard and long labors.” Ingratitude makes it hard to receive and appreciate God’s blessings.

This inner monologue may not be explicit, but it sits deep inside the hearts of many pew-sitting saints. To those who have labored in the Father’s house all their lives and have enjoyed long tenures as Christians, God’s generosity is offensive. God’s love and blessing are offensive things, for they too often go to the unworthy. Ingratitude not only makes it hard to personally receive God’s blessings but also makes one covetous of the goodness God grants to others. We will be remedied from this coveting ingratitude when we realize that God is a very poor venture capitalist. God’s resources—expensive and precious—are poured into this world at all times and in all places. The Scriptures indicate that whether they are just or unjust, God showers generous and good blessings upon His children (Matt. 5:45). Yet how many will resist, reject, and refuse Him? How many will use the benefits of those blessings to actively oppose God or to disdain His goodness?

However, even closer to home, how many saints will receive grace and yet act wickedly? God is no venture capitalist; God is Savior and Father, and parents know that what they give to children can never possibly be repaid, yet they give anyway.

**REACT**

`In what ways has God’s reckless generosity benefitted your life? Have you ever mismanaged His blessings or demanded more than what He gave?`

_Bryant Fernando Rodriguez, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_