---
title:  An Attitude of Gratitude
date:   02/03/2018
---

**Exploration:** Col. 2:6, 7

**CONCLUDE**

Good stewardship comes from understanding that we are not here for no reason and that we all have a purpose and role in God’s beautiful plan. Putting on Christ should be our goal. True selflessness comes only through reflecting on Christ’s character and refines us to be able to fulfill our true purpose. Our talents might be different from others’, but they all work together for one divine reason. It is such an honor to even be a small part of this massive story. A heart full of gratitude enables us to practice Christlike love (see Matt. 5:43–48).

**CONSIDER**

- Sketching a picture of a person (give it your name) and labeling each part of the body with the talent that God has given you to use for His glory (for example, point an arrow to the throat to show that you can sing). Put it up on the wall where you can see it and be reminded to use these talents.
- Listening to the hymn “A Diligent and Grateful Heart,” no. 639 in the Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal.
- Maintaining a journal to record the areas of your attitude that you are working on and noting each incident that helps you get better and overcome your weaknesses.
- Offering to pray for someone (even wear a badge with the question “May I pray for you?”) as often as possible.
- Making a list of the things God has granted you in answer to your prayers and reflecting on whether you have used them to bring Him glory.
- Writing what you understand from the word dominion (Gen. 1:28) and reflecting on how you can put it into practice in your own environment.
- Watching the sermon “Love Supreme” by Doug Batchelor (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JdkHn3jGRtE).

**CONNECT**

Matthew 25:14–30.

Ellen G. White, To Be Like Jesus, “Pray to Reflect Christ’s Unfathomable Love,” p. 19.

_Sharon Pallat, Bangalore, Karnataka, India_