---
title:  Learning To Wait
date:  03/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Romans 15:4, 5; Psalm 27:14; Psalm 37:7; Romans 5:3–5; Romans 5:6; Galatians 4:4; Daniel 9:24–27; 1 Samuel 26:12–25;

1 Samuel 16:1–13; 1 Samuel 23:17; 1 Samuel 24:20; 1 Kings 19:1–9; 1 Kings 18; Genesis 16:1–3; Numbers 20:10–12; Judges 14:1–3; Matthew 20:20, 21; Luke 9:52–56; Acts 9:1; Psalm 37:4; 2 Timothy 1:12; 1 Corinthians 10:13.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “But the fruit the Holy Spirit produces is . . . being patient” (Galatians 5:22, NIrV).

SCIENTISTS did an experiment with four-year-old children and marshmallows, a sweet fluffy, white candy. The scientists gave each child one marshmallow. If the children waited until the scientists came back from an errand, then they would get an extra marshmallow. What happened? Some of the kids stuffed their marshmallows into their mouths as soon as the scientists left. Other children waited until the scientists came back.

The scientists studied the children until their teenage years. The children who waited to get the extra marshmallows became better students. They also had more success in life. Why? Because they knew they needed to be patient. They learned how to wait. No wonder the Lord tells us to learn to be patient!

This week, we’ll look at one of the hardest tests of all in life: learning to be patient during difficult tests and hard times.