---
title:  Our Patient God 
date:  04/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Romans 15:4, 5. What Bible truth do these verses teach us?`

Most of us are not very patient about waiting for the things that we really want. We also don’t like to wait for things we’ve been promised and don’t have. We often are only happy when we get what we’ve been waiting for. But we often don’t get what we want when we want it. So, we often feel upset and angry. When we feel this way, we will have trouble feeling at peace with God or trusting in Him.

Waiting can be painful. One of the words in the sentence “be willing to wait” (NLV) in Psalm 37:7 comes from a Hebrew word that can be written as “to feel much pain,” “to shake,” “to be hurt,” “to be sad.” Learning to be patient is not easy. Sometimes the experience of learning to be patient can make us feel as if we are taking the hardest test in our life.

`Read Psalm 27:14; Psalm 37:7; and Romans 5:3–5. What do these verses tell us? What does our being patient lead to?`

While we wait, we can do one of two things. We can think about the things we are waiting for. Or we can think about the One who holds those things in His hands. What makes our waiting a success? Does waiting a long time make us better? No, it is trust. If we trust the Lord, then we will put our lives in His hands. If we give our lives to Jesus, then we can trust that He will do what’s best for us when it is best for us, no matter how hard it is for us to believe.

`What things are you waiting for? How long have you been waiting? How can you learn to give everything to God and trust in Him? Pray and ask God to give you a heart filled with patient faith and trust in Him.`