---
title:  The Right Time 
date:  05/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Romans 5:6 and Galatians 4:4. What do these things tell us about when God will do things?`

In these verses, Paul tells us that Jesus came to die for us at just the right time. But Paul does not tell us why it was the right time. It’s very easy to read Romans 5:6 and Galatians 4:4 and wonder, “Why did Jesus wait for thousands of years to come to this earth to fight against sin? Didn’t everyone in heaven understand that sin was a very bad thing long before Jesus came here?” We also may ask why Jesus waits to come the second time. We also may ask, “Why does the Lord wait so long to answer my prayers?”

`Think about the 70-week time message about the future in Daniel 9:24–27. This special time message shows us that Jesus is the Savior. How long were the 70 weeks in real time? What does this answer tell you about why we must learn to wait for God to do things when He is ready, even if we must wait a long time?`

There are many important reasons why we must wait for God to do things when He is ready. We will look at six spiritual reasons. (1) Waiting can help us remove our attention from “things” and put it back on God Himself. (2) Waiting allows us to understand better what is in our hearts. (3) Waiting teaches us to be patient. (4) Waiting helps us to grow stronger in faith. (5) Waiting gives God time to do other things for us that He promised. (6) We may never know the reason we must wait. So, we must learn to live by faith. Can you think of any other reasons for why we must sometimes wait?

`What Bible examples can you find of times when God does things only when He’s ready? What can you learn from these examples that will help you trust that God will do things for you at the right time? (Think about Abraham and Sarah and the promise of a son.) Is there something you want so much, and you’ve prayed about it a long time? Ask yourself, “Am I doing anything to cause a delay to my prayer being answered?” If yes, what do you feel you are doing to cause the delay?`