---
title:  'David: An Example Of Waiting'
date:  06/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In 1 Samuel 16:1–13, Samuel puts oil on David when he is a boy to show that David will be Israel’s future king. But David must wait a long time before he becomes king. David must have felt, at times, that he was suffering a lot by having to wait for so long.

Look at some of David’s experiences before he became king. First, David is asked to play music to help King Saul feel better (1 Samuel 16). Later, David becomes Israel’s hero when he kills Goliath (1 Samuel 17). David also spends many years running away from King Saul, who tries to kill him. Both Saul and his son Jonathan know that David will be the next king (1 Samuel 23:17; 1 Samuel 24:20). David doesn’t do anything to make himself king. When Saul tries to kill David, David cuts a piece of cloth off the king’s clothes. Then David feels bad about what he did. He wishes he never did it (1 Samuel 24:5–7). Again, when Saul tries to kill David, David gets another chance to kill Saul. But David refuses to kill him (1 Samuel 26:7–11).

`Why does David refuse to kill Saul? What does David’s decision teach us about the way God works out His plans for our lives? Read 1 Samuel 26:1–11 for the answers.`

`How does David’s decision not to kill Saul change Saul’s heart? What does this story teach us about why we should be patient and wait for God to work in our lives when He is ready? Read 1 Samuel 26:12–25 for the answers.`

David’s story about becoming king teaches us this Bible truth: don’t grab what God hasn’t given you. Wait. God’s gifts are always best when we wait for Him to give them to us. Maybe we will need to wait for a very long time. A bean sprout can grow fast, in just a few hours. But an oak tree will take many years to grow. When the strong winds come, the tree will not blow over or break.

`David had many good reasons to kill Saul. (Samuel told David he was going to be Israel’s future king. Also, King Saul was very evil.) But David does not kill Saul.David’s behavior shows his faith in God. What does his example teach you about why you must be patient?`