---
title:  'Elijah: A Lesson About Not Rushing'
date:  07/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The big contest between God and Baal happened on top of the high hill named Mount Carmel. Now it was over (1 Kings 18). Fire came down from heaven. All the people announced that the Lord was the true God. Elijah commanded the people to kill all who worshiped Baal. The Baal worshipers included false teachers and priests, or spiritual leaders. Elijah showed the people that God was all-powerful and the only One they should worship. After all these things, you’d think that Elijah is very strong in faith, right? But Elijah hears something that scares him so much that he wants to die. Read the rest of the story in 1 Kings 19:1–9. What does Elijah do next? He runs. “Elijah went into a cave and spent the night. Then the Lord said to him, ‘Elijah, why are you here?’ ” (1 Kings 19:9, ERV). God’s question shows us that Elijah is in the wrong place. Fear will do that to us.

`After God’s powerful miracle on top of Mount Carmel, Elijah should be filled with faith and trust. But he isn’t. He runs in fear for his life. What lesson can we learn from this bad example?`

Elijah’s story shows us an important spiritual truth. When we rush, we can very easily end up in the wrong place. Elijah’s fear caused him to get so upset that he ran a long way to the desert. Elijah wished he never was born. Fear is only one thing that can cause us to run away from God’s plan for us. What are some other things that make us run away?

`Read these verses: Genesis 16:1–3; Numbers 20:10–12; Judges 14:1–3; Matthew 20:20, 21; Luke 9:52–56; and Acts 9:1. What things caused the people in these verses to run away from God’s plan for their lives?`

Often, anger causes us to hurry to get what we want. We may run ahead of God and find ourselves in a place where He didn’t lead us. So, we must learn to trust God and have faith in His mercy. Our God is good. He loves us and wants what’s best for us. His plan for our lives doesn’t happen overnight. Faith is a gift. We must take care of this precious gift.