---
title:  “be Happy In The Lord” 
date:  08/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Enjoy serving the Lordord, and he will give you whatever you ask for” (Psalm 37:4, ERV).

Psalm 37:4 is a wonderful promise. Try to make a picture in your mind of getting everything you always wanted. There is a secret to getting everything you want. You must be happy in the Lord. What does it mean to be happy in the Lord and to enjoy serving Him?

Read Psalm 37:1–11. The reason that David wrote Psalm 37 is a little surprising. David writes about being around people who work against God and against him. When people work against us, we may get angry. Or we may want to prove we are right and that they are wrong. But David gives us different advice.

**Read the verses below. In each of the verses, what does David tell God’s people to do?**

`Psalm 37:1`

`Psalm 37:5`

`Psalm 37:7`

`Psalm 37:8`

`Now read Psalm 37:4 again. How do the verses you just read above help you understand David when he tells us to “be happy in the Lord” (Psalm 37:4, NLV)?`

As we see in the verses above, David tells us again and again, in different ways to trust God. Trust God to act. Don’t let your troubles upset you because God is your God. Right now, He works for you. You don’t have to try to hurry and fix things yourself. Your Father in heaven is in control. Trust Him. Trust Him completely.

To be happy in God means that we have perfect trust in God. Nothing can upset us or destroy our peace. God is here and at work for us. So, we can smile. We can praise Him, because no one is smarter than our God! When we can learn to trust God this much, then we really will get what we wish for. We will get what our loving Father wants to give us. He will give it to us at the best time, too.