---
title:  Further Thought
date:  09/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Anointing of David,” pages 637–642, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“I don’t know what God wants me to learn from my suffering. But God knows what is best. I will give Him my body, my spirit, and my life. He is the One who made me. He will never disappoint me. ‘But I am not ashamed, because I know the one [God] I have put my trust in. And I am sure that he is able to protect what I have put into his care until that Day [the Second Coming]’ (2 Timothy 1:12, [ERV]). What if we train ourselves to show more faith, love, and to be more patient? Then we will have more perfect trust in our Father in heaven. I know we will have more peace and joy, day by day, in all our tests in this life.

“The Lord is not pleased when we worry so much that we let go of our faith in Jesus. We need to learn to watch and wait in quiet hope for Him. We keep looking for some sign as proof of our faith. We think that we must feel very deeply to show that we have faith. But faith is not a feeling.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 2, page 242, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus does not give us any test that is so hard that we will fail (1 Corinthians 10:13). How can knowing this Bible truth help us while we wait for Him to keep His promises?`

`Ask people in class to share their personal stories about what it means to patiently wait. What were their fears and joys as they waited? How did they stay strong in faith? What promises helped them at that time?`

`What can you do as a church or a class to help other people in their suffering as they wait for God to help them?`

`What part does prayer have in making us patient? Find someone who will pray with you. Ask God to send the Holy Spirit to help you to become more patient.`