---
title:  Worship—Different Versions
date:  03/08/2019
---

**Introduction**: Exod. 32:6

From the time of the prophets to modern-day Christianity, various forms of worship have existed. Some people use the word worship to describe a particular piece of music or to describe some sounds. Similarly, many Christians consider their Sabbath or Sunday morning services to be worship. However, amid the different versions of worship, we need to know God’s idea of worship. To worship to His standards, we need to understand what God means by worship.

“We have enough how-to-do-it books and not enough reflection on worship as a total biblical idea. Worship is a subject that should dominate our lives seven days a week.”1

The essence of worship is an inner, authentic experience of the heart. Christ confirmed this in the New Testament when He said, “ ‘The hour is coming, and is now here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth: for the Father is seeking such people to worship Him’ ” (John 4:23, 24, ESV).

Contrastingly, some of the things that people worship, and the manner in which they do it, are nowhere near the value and magnitude of the Creator. To worship the Creator in spirit and truth is to engage in an act of reverence, adoration, and praise that is right, good, and pleasing to God. Therefore, we must recognize God as the Creator of the universe and everything it holds.

True worship leads us to salvation and puts us right with both God the Creator and our fellow brothers and sisters on earth. True worship makes us live as one family in Christ, showing compassion, mercy, and love to one another. The same sin of idolatry that blinded the children of Israel exists even today. Many people, even in the church, have left worshiping the Creator to give adoration, praise, and reverence to objects and other worldly possessions.

However, as young adults in this generation, we need to understand that true worship includes how we live our lives on a daily basis. How we relate to God and humanity is an important part of worship. What we do on the outside must reflect what we are within. When we know God and value Him above everything else, we can experience a joyful satisfaction that leads us to perform acts of kindness to others while we maintain intimacy with the Creator.

---

<sup>1. David Peterson, Engaging With God: A Biblical Theology of Worship (Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity, 1992), p. 21</sup>

_Kepha Otieno, Nairobi, Kenya_