---
title:  Concepts of Worship
date:  04/08/2019
---

**Evidence**: Ps. 115:1–8

The act of worship has two major aspects: the inner essence and the public expression. The latter refers to the daily acts and services that we do in connection to worship. Paul alludes to this aspect of worship in Romans 12:1. One thing stands out from Paul’s statement: whatever we do with our lives must match heavenly standards. That is spiritual worship.

To illustrate the inner essence of worship, Christ declared a type of faith that the Pharisees and the scribes demonstrated. He said, “ ‘These people draw near to Me with their mouth, and honor Me with their lips; but their heart is far from Me’ ” (Matt. 15:8, NKJV). Christ called this type of worship “vain” (verse 9), meaning zero, or nothing.

Worship is vain if there is no heart connection in it. Therefore, even if we perform many good deeds and go to church every Sabbath, if we don’t have that intimate connection with God, our worship amounts to nothing. In the act of true worship, we exalt God and acknowledge that He exists above us and is worthy of our affection, adoration, and attention. Exaltation can be direct (Exod. 15:2) through the proclamation of God’s greatness, His absolute say on our lives, and the beauty and magnificence of His creation.

While exaltation involves recognizing God and His works, His nature, and His character, expression deals with declaring the truths that God has revealed to us in Scripture. In addition to acknowledging the facts about God and what He does, we must proceed to respond to what He has shown us.

Expression can be either physical or verbal. Singing songs of praise, clapping, kneeling or bowing in reverence, shouting, or lifting of hands are all examples of physical responses. On the other hand, verbal expression happens when we communicate to God our love and desire for Him and our need for His grace and His holiness.

In expressing ourselves in worship, we must focus on God and His character as revealed in the Bible. Our expression must have biblical precedent and support. Both exaltation and expression in worship must demonstrate faith in the finished work of Christ and glorify God.

**React**

`1. Apart from exaltation and expression, what other concept of worship do you know?`

`2. Is it possible to do good deeds without having faith in God? Why does God consider this form of worship useless?`

---

_Beatrice Bernard, Kasarani, Nairobi, Kenya_