---
title:  Doing Good in Worship
date:  06/08/2019
---

**Testimony**: Exod. 32:6

“Jehovah, the eternal, self-existent, uncreated One, Himself the Source and Sustainer of all, is alone entitled to supreme reverence and worship. Man is forbidden to give to any other object the first place in his affections or his service. Whatever we cherish that tends to lessen our love for God or to interfere with the service due Him, of that do we make a god.”1

A couple of days after God had specified how He wanted the children of Israel to worship Him, the people changed their minds and yielded to the pressures of the world.

“Aaron feared for his own safety; and instead of nobly standing up for the honor of God, he yielded to the demands of the multitude. His first act was to direct that the golden earrings be collected from all the people and brought to him, hoping that pride would lead them to refuse such a sacrifice. But they willingly yielded up their ornaments; and from these he made a molten calf, in imitation of the gods of Egypt. . . .

“How often, in our own day, is the love of pleasure disguised by a ‘form of godliness’! A religion that permits men, while observing the rites of worship, to devote themselves to selfish or sensual gratification, is as pleasing to the multitudes now as in the days of Israel. And there are still pliant Aarons, who, while holding positions of authority in the church, will yield to the desires of the unconsecrated, and thus encourage them in sin.

“Only a few days had passed since the Hebrews had made a solemn covenant with God to obey His voice. They had stood trembling with terror before the mount, listening to the words of the Lord, ‘Thou shalt have no other gods before Me.’ The glory of God still hovered above Sinai in the sight of the congregation; but they turned away, and asked for other gods.”2

**React**

`1. The people of Israel worshiped a golden calf. What idols do people worship in our time?`

`2. What are the consequences of worshiping idols or objects?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 305.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 317.</sup>

_Bernard Okoth, Kasarani, Nairobi, Kenya_