---
title:  The God of Gods
date:  07/08/2019
---

**How-to**: Deut. 10:17–22

Worshiping in the twenty-first century could be tricky for many reasons. In an era when technology and resources have developed a great deal, we could easily get sidetracked if we use them in the wrong way.

However, with so many distractions out there, we still have a reason to worship God. One thing that stands out about God is that He is incomparable. In Deuteronomy 10:17–22, Moses speaks to Israel about the attributes of God that place Him above everything else. He begins by describing God as the Omnipotent God of gods.

It is important to realize that God created the entire universe and everything that’s in it. However, knowing that is one thing, and doing what God wants is another. Nothing, seen or unseen, can match the value and the sovereignty of the Creator.

The Bible makes it clear that God executes “judgment for the fatherless and widow, and loveth the stranger, in giving him food and raiment” (Deut. 10:18). When we love God and worship Him as our Creator, we adopt the same attributes. We will have mercy toward the suffering and the oppressed; we will support the poor and clothe the orphans.

What does this tell us? As long as we uphold the rulership of God and His value in our lives as the Creator, we shall be able to extend acts of mercy and kindness to our fellow people in need. Even in an age where Satan works harder to deceive God’s people, we still have a reason to worship the God of gods. We worship Him for several reasons:

He is the Creator. God created all things. The planets, galaxies, and stars are all works of God. Above all, when we look at ourselves in the mirror, we see the image of God (Gen. 1:26, 27).

He loves us unconditionally. Regardless of how we feel towards Him, despite our prevailing circumstances, God loves us immeasurably. And He has a plan for our future (Jer. 29:11).

He is faithful. God will remain faithful to us even when we’re unfaithful to Him. When we stray, He leads us back to Himself.

**React**

`1. What other qualities of God do you know that cause us to worship Him?`

`2. How is God’s love evident in the lives of the less fortunate?`

`3. Why do you worship God?`

---

_Jayne George, Homabay, Kenya_