---
title:  Worshiping as a Church
date:  08/08/2019
---

**Opinion**: Isa. 58:14

When we worship, we should exalt, glorify, honor, and praise God in a manner that is pleasing to Him. Through contrite submission and humble supplication, our worship must demonstrate our loyalty to God for giving us the opportunity to escape the bondage of sin.

Worshiping as a church plays an important role in rekindling the spiritual fire, as witnessed on the Day of Pentecost (Acts 2:1–4). It also brings us together to study God’s Word and to pray and fellowship. It’s one of the greatest ways of keeping God’s grace in our lives.

Individual, private worship is not bad, but, as one author puts it, “There’s an element of worship and Christianity that cannot be experienced in private worship or by watching worship. There are some graces and blessings that God gives only in the ‘meeting together’ with other believers.”1

Here are some of the blessings we experience when we come together as a church to worship the Creator: Corporate worship awakens our spiritual vigor. When we worship together, we support each other. Unity in prayer can yield amazing results. Martin Luther once said, “At home, in my own house, there is no warmth or vigor in me; but in the church when the multitude is gathered together, a fire is kindled in my heart and it breaks its way through.”2

Community brings assurance. Being part of a church community assures us that we are one family in Christ. Worship in our local churches points to the worship in the collective church of which Christ is the head (Rev. 7:9). Corporate worship makes us advance in our faith. During community worship, we participate in building, encouragement, and consolation (1 Cor. 14:3). At the same time, worshiping together as a church helps us behold Christ together. “We all . . . are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another” (2 Cor. 3:18, ESV).

**React**

`1. When should we worship God corporately and when privately?`

`2. How does worshiping as a church help us execute social justice?`

---

<sup>1. Donald S. Whitney, Spiritual Disciplines for the Christian Life (Colorado Springs, CO: NAVPRESS, 1991), p. 92.</sup>

<sup>2. David Mathis, “Kindle the Fire in Corporate Worship,” desiringGod (blog), May 19, 2014, https://www.desiringgod.org/articles/kindle-the-fire-in-corporate-worship.</sup>

_Phyllis Nafula, Kakamega, Kenya_