---
title:  Worship in Spirit and in Truth
date:  09/08/2019
---

**Exploration**: Exod. 20:2–6

**Conclude**

God requires us to recognize His presence in our lives through worship. He wants us to render true worship that brings honor and glory to His name. If we worship Him in Spirit and truth, we can have a lasting connection with Him in our hearts, and this will be demonstrated in our actions. Besides, God has provided, in His Word, everything that we need for our spiritual growth and development. The truth in the Bible sets us free to worship God and to serve our fellow humans by His standards.

**Consider**

- Writing down 10 differences between an idol and God the Creator. Keep reminding yourself of the differences and ask God to give you the power to worship Him alone.
- Making a worship timetable for the whole week. Ask God to help you follow the timetable so that you can worship Him each day.
- Practicing different activities that constitute worship, such as singing, praying, meditation, and extending acts of mercy and kindness to people in need.
- Forming a worship group in your church that can meet once or twice a week to connect to God as a community. Write down some of the changes you experience when you worship as a group.
- Imagining some of the things that people consider amazing, such as the tallest buildings, fastest cars, or any other thing that people might consider worthy of worship. Write down reasons why these things cannot take the place of God in your life.


**Connect**

Revelation 14:6, 7; Psalm 95:6; 1 Chronicles 16:29; John 4:24.

Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, bk. 2, pp. 16, 17.

David Peterson, Engaging With God, pp. 20–26.

---

__