---
title: The Power of the Word
date: 06/07/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Luke 15**

**The Power of the Word**

Have you ever lost something of great emotional value? Most things in this world can be replaced, but certain items are simply irreplaceable. Think of a sentimental gift from somebody special, a nostalgic photograph from childhood, or perhaps a souvenir from a memorable trip. When such an item is lost, it is almost like a piece of our lives is missing.

Of far greater significance than any lost item is the crisis of losing a person. When people go missing, every effort is made to find them. There seems to be no limit to the time, money, and resources that people will spend to find a missing loved one. Many parents have felt the panic of suddenly losing sight of their young child. Fortunately, the child has often just wandered down the street or around the corner and is quickly found.

My wife and I experienced this panic at a camp meeting. We were both busy talking to people, and suddenly our two-year-old son was gone. We dashed to the nearby lake, fearing he had fallen into the water. Soon many other campers joined our search. Only a few minutes later, we found our boy calmly strolling through one of the other rooms upstairs. We felt a huge sense of relief and joy the moment we found him.

This experience is not new to us in the modern world. Jesus held His audience spellbound as He told them a story about a lost son—two sons, actually, both made lost by their choices. This parable places the heart of the gospel on full display as we encounter a God in pursuit of humanity. Jesus came to seek and save the lost, and this includes each of us.

#### inScribe

Write out Luke 15 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 11­–32. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `