---
title: A Call to Repentance
date: 07/07/2024
---

#### inGest

The parables Jesus told are not just interesting stories; they have the power to transform us, as our overall title of this quarter suggests. For these stories to transform us, we need to see ourselves in them—which isn’t difficult in Luke 15. In the parable of the prodigal son, the titular son knew he was lost and knew the way back to his father, but hesitated to return. Each one of us has left the Father at some point, and many hesitate to return for any number of reasons.

Ultimately, God is the One who finds us wherever we are. He meets us and draws us to Himself. When the father saw his wayward son in the distance, he ran to him, embraced him, and kissed him. This was unheard of in the culture where Jesus told this story. In an honor culture where disrespect toward a parent was not tolerated, a long process would be required for the child to make things right. The son braced himself for a stern response from his father and prepared a speech suggesting he could be a servant instead of a son. He believed that if he tried hard enough, he might earn his father’s favor back. The son was surprised and overwhelmed by the tender pity and compassion of his father. His sins were forgiven, and he was reinstated as a son. Oh, the depth of God’s love and mercy toward sinners!

This parable reveals the importance of repentance, which is a call to change direction. True repentance involves a sorrow for sin and a desire for a change of heart. It is two-dimensional: turning away from sin and toward God. True conversion is not merely behavioral modification. Rather, it is a deep transformation of the heart as we depend on God to do in us what we cannot do for ourselves. Only God’s goodness can lead us to repentance (Rom. 2:4); it draws us to Himself. Genuine change occurs when we respond to God’s love and accept by faith the new identity our heavenly Father gives us.

Nothing could restrain the father’s joy when he regained his son, for he had been relationally dead but was alive again. The gospel is the good news that in Christ we can move from being spiritually dead in trespasses and sins to being alive in Him! No matter how far we have wandered away, Christ welcomes every person who desires reconciliation and a fresh start.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`In what ways have you experienced God’s goodness leading you to repentance and change?`

`What evidence do you have of God’s love for you?`