---
title: Two Types of Lostness
date: 08/07/2024
---

#### inTerpret

This story is known as the parable of the lost son, but we could very well call it the parable of the lost sons, plural. At the outset, these two men appear very different, but they have striking similarities.

The older brother was a loyal son who continued to serve his father while his younger sibling was gone. When he heard about his brother’s return and the celebratory feast, he refused to join the festivities. He was furious. His father left the party to reason with him, but notice how the older brother resisted: “Lo, these many years I have been serving you; I never transgressed your commandment at any time” (Luke 15:29). The older son felt entitled and superior because of his years of service. His father replied by saying, “Son, you are always with me, and all that I have is yours” (v. 31). Unfortunately, the older brother was unaware of the relationship he could have enjoyed all along. Sometimes we go through the forms of religion without being conscious of the blessings that are available.

The older brother did not rebel against his father as his younger brother had, but he considered himself a servant. In his mind, their relationship was like a contract. He thought, “I have served; therefore, I deserve a reward.” That sounds familiar, right? It’s what his younger brother proposed for himself when he returned. Both sons had a distorted understanding of their relationship with their father. Both wanted the father’s wealth and status. One sought to achieve this by leaving his father, while the other sought to accomplish this by staying with his father. One sought to gain control by breaking the rules while the other sought to gain control by keeping them.

Jesus was illustrating two types of lostness: we can avoid and resist God through immorality or irreligion, but we can also avoid and resist Him through morality and religion if we have no personal relationship with Him. Sin is often covered up with self-righteousness. Sadly, many Christians walk in the footsteps of the older brother in this parable. We cannot use God simply to get what we want. Rather, we must know Him and build a relationship with Him. We should obey God not because of what we get but because of who He is. The younger brother’s sin is easy to see, and Jesus shows the redemptive work in his life. However, He leaves us wondering about the older brother. The parable is a cliffhanger; we never find out whether he joined the feast. This ambiguous end emphasizes that God is pleading with us all to come to the feast. The story should leave us searching our own hearts.

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do you relate to your heavenly Father? How can you avoid the transactional mindset of a servant?`