---
title: God’s Heart for the Lost
date: 10/07/2024
---

#### inVite

Luke 15 begins by telling us that “all the tax collectors and the sinners drew near to Him to hear Him. And the Pharisees and the scribes complained, saying, ‘This Man receives sinners and eats with them’ ” (Luke 15:1, 2). To bring the lost back to God, Jesus searches them out and meets them where they are. He is interested in lost sinners and rejoices when one is found.

On another occasion, Jesus decided to have lunch with a rich tax collector named Zacchaeus (Luke 19). He didn’t merely hang out with Zacchaeus but influenced his life to such an extent that he made a completely new start that very day. Jesus made it clear that He came into this world to seek and save the lost (v. 10).

Jesus’ parables in Luke 15 revealed the nature of His ministry on earth while also uncovering the faulty thoughts and actions of those who professed to follow God but shunned others. The Pharisees complained about Jesus’ willingness to connect with tax collectors and sinners. If they had listened carefully to the second half of the parable of the prodigal son, they would have recognized that Jesus was talking about them.

The older brother in the story was a striking representation of the Pharisees in Jesus’ day. They refused to rejoice over lost sinners who were found, for they judged these individuals as being unworthy of God’s favor and blessings. In this parable, Jesus revealed the father’s interest in both the prodigal son and the older brother. In Jesus’ earthly ministry, He sought to reach both the prodigals and the self-righteous. Jesus faced increasing hostility from the religious leaders, but it did not deter Him from continuing to reach the outcasts and bring them into His kingdom.

The stories in Luke 15 are but a dim reflection of the incredible effort heaven makes to seek and save the lost. The narratives only partially convey the inestimable gift heaven has given us in the Person of Jesus Christ. When we contemplate the gospel story of Jesus, we can have confidence for the future. “What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not with Him also freely give us all things?” (Rom. 8:31, 32). The parables of Luke 15 remind us that God is willing to do all and give all to secure our salvation.

`What is He saying to you through the text of the week?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`How can we draw close to people who are lost in order to bring them to Jesus?`

`Prayer Response:`