---
title:  Light of the Whole World
date:   24/03/2026
---

### inTerpret

God desires all people to come to a knowledge of the truth, and He works in countless ways to reach every individual, regardless of their circumstances or background. God’s providence reaches everywhere, to everyone. He touches people who are reaching for a higher power, even when they do not know who God is. Ellen White describes how not one person anywhere in the world is outside of God’s reach:

No distinction on account of nationality, race, or caste, is recognized by God. He is the Maker of all mankind. All men are of one family by creation, and all are one through redemption. Christ came to demolish every wall of partition, to throw open every compartment of the temple courts, that every soul may have free access to God. His love is so broad, so deep, so full, that it penetrates everywhere. It lifts out of Satan's influence those who have been deluded by his deceptions, and places them within reach of the throne of God, the throne encircled by the rainbow of promise. In Christ there is neither Jew nor Greek, bond nor free.–Ellen G. White, _Prophets and Kings_ (1917), 369.

The apostle John declares that Jesus “was the true Light which gives light to every man coming into the world” (John 1:9). John doesn’t specify how much knowledge is given or how it is given, but Paul provides further insight. “For since the creation of the world His invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even His eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse” (Rom. 1:20). Paul argues that all humans are accountable for the light God has revealed to them. Not all have access to God’s Word, but God has given everyone a conscience (Rom. 2:12–15). God has woven a witness of Himself into the very fabric of creation. The darkness of this world cannot mask His power, wisdom, and divinity. The Light of life illuminates all who are willing to look.

God judges each of us by whether we lived up to the light we received—whether it was a little light or great light. He gives us opportunities to embrace His grace in whatever form it is revealed. For individuals and cultural groups who never had access to a Bible or a missionary, He will judge them according to their responses to whatever light was given to them.

No one will be lost simply because of where they were born. No one will be lost simply because of what truth they could or could not access. No one will be lost simply because they were born in the wrong time period.

How does the understanding that God judges people based on the light they have received impact your view of His justice and mercy?

What examples can you think of where God spoke through dreams, stars, animals, or natural events to reach people with minimal access to His Word?

_Memorize your favorite passage from Matthew 15:21–28. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._