---
title:  Scars in His Hands
date:   26/03/2026
---

### inVite

In heaven, we will see that the light of Jesus has reached people from every nation, tribe, and language, including people who had limited access to the full story of the Gospel yet are saved by responding to the light they were given (Rev. 7:9). Some people will hear the story of the cross for the first time in heaven. They will ask Christ, “‘What are these wounds between your arms?’ Then he will answer, ‘Those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends’ ” (Zech. 13:6). Even those who have never fully understood the Gospel can still respond to the revelation of God’s love and be counted among the redeemed.

Jesus will save others who knew His name but were confused by false doctrines in Christianity. This is revealed in Revelation 18, where God calls His people out Babylon—a term for a compromised form of Christianity that mixes truth and error. The invitation, “Come out of her, My people,” reveals that God has faithful followers even in the midst of the spiritual darkness that is symbolized by Babylon (Rev. 18:4). God finds His children entangled in systems of confusion and error. He recognizes their hearts and calls them away from darkness into the light.

God’s missionary heart is vast and all-encompassing. He is the ultimate soul-winner, tirelessly working to reach every individual, regardless of their background or knowledge. God’s love knows no boundaries, and His desire to save is universal, drawing people from every walk of life into His eternal kingdom. For this reason, “God has dealt to each one a measure of faith” (Rom. 12:3). God has placed in the heart of each person something that senses the divine call.

Our role is to cooperate with God, to be vessels of His light, and to share His love wherever we can. Introducing people to Jesus and telling them the gospel story encourages them to make an informed response to God’s love. Our mission responsibility also includes other Christians who are deceived by the errors of Babylon. By sharing Bible truth with them and giving them an accurate picture of God’s character, they gain the tools to make the right decisions and not be pulled away from Jesus.

May each one of us accept the challenge of knowing what we believe and why we believe it. May we know Christ and share Him with other people from all backgrounds. When our faith is challenged, may we be able to defend our beliefs and the reasons for the hope that is within us.

**Questions to consider:**

`If God will save some people who never heard Jesus’ name, what’s the purpose of sharing the gospel?`

`How much mission responsibility should we feel toward other Christians who are confused by false doctrine?`