---
title:  inQuire
date:   28/03/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it is important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful study discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**The Canaanite woman:**

1. How did Christ’s disciples receive this foreign woman? _Matt. 15:21–23_
2. Why did Jesus test her? How did Jesus honor her and reward her extraordinary faith? _Matt. 15:24–28_
3. What was Jesus trying to teach the disciples through His interaction with this Canaanite woman?

`Personal reflection: How would you react if people at church rejected you like the disciples rejected this woman? How can you help people at church who have been treated rudely in the past?`

**The unreached:**

1. How does God use nature to reveal His love to people who are unacquainted with Him? _Ps. 19:1–4; Rom. 1:20_
2. How does God speak to the consciences of those who are ignorant of His law? _Rom. 2:12–15_
3. What is promised to every person, even those who have limited access to the gospel story? _John 1:9; Rom. 12:3_
4. What Bible stories or modern missionary stories can you think of where God used dreams to lead people to Him? _Matt. 27:19; Acts 10:1–8_
5. What is God’s earnest desire for every person in the world? _1 Tim. 2:4; 2 Pet. 3:9_
6. When will some of God’s children discover the story of the cross for the first time? _Zech. 13:6_
7. How can understanding the inclusivity of God’s plan help you engage in meaningful conversations with people of different faith backgrounds?

`Personal reflection: In some cases, God will save those who have never heard Jesus’ name. How does sharing the gospel with people increase their chances of properly responding to God?`

### Key takeaways to remember

- God earnestly desires to save people of all backgrounds and religions.
- Every person in the world is given a conscience, some level of faith, and some light, even if they never hear Jesus’ name.
- God is able to save some people who are ignorant of Him, based on how they responded to the little light they had.