---
title:  The Spirit and the Bible
date:   31/12/2016
---

### The Spirit and the Bible

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON:
2 Peter 1:19–21; 1 Corinthians 2:9–13; Psalm 119:160; John 17:17.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “God has breathed life into [the whole Bible]. [The Bible] is useful for teaching us what is true. It is useful for correcting our mistakes. It is useful for making our lives whole again. It is useful for training us to do what is right. By using [the Bible], a man of God can be completely prepared to do every good thing” (2 Timothy 3:16, 17, NIrV).

THE BIBLE SAYS THE FOLLOWING ABOUT ITSELF: “God has breathed life into [the whole Bible]. It is useful for teaching us what is true. It is useful for correcting our mistakes. It is useful for making our lives whole again. It is useful for training us to do what is right. By using [the Bible], a man of God can be completely prepared to do every good thing” (2 Timothy 3:16, 17, NIrV). The Bible can do all these wonderful things because it is the Word of God. God made His Word known to humans through the work of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit shows God’s plan of salvation to us in the Bible. The Spirit also shows us how to live a life pleasing to God. 

The Holy Spirit helped create the Bible. It is true this great work took place long ago. But the Holy Spirit is just as involved with the Bible today and in many other important ways. He helps us understand what we read in the Bible. In fact, helping us understand God’s Word is one of His most important jobs. It may be His most important job today. This week we will study how the work of the Holy Spirit relates to the Bible. 