---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AND REVELATION
date:   01/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT AND REVELATION

2 Peter 1:19–21

How does God make sure that fallen humans receive and understand His plan for their lives? He helps them understand His plan through the work of revelation and inspiration. 

Here is how revelation works between God and people. In revelation, Someone outside of ourselves makes truth known to us. This Person is God. In this way, God makes things known to us that we cannot know on our own. This is because God created us, but we have fallen. And so, we need the Holy Spirit to teach us these truths. (For example, read Daniel 2:19–23.)

Through revelation, God makes Himself and His holy plan known to humans. Revelation means an “unveiling [to open; make known]” or an “uncovering.” It is the making of something known that otherwise is hidden. When thinking about revelation, we must remember we are fallen. Our sin separates us from God. And we greatly are limited in what we can learn on our own. We are dependent upon God to know His plan. In other words, we are not God. And we have only a very limited knowledge of Him. So, we are dependent on God’s revelation. 

`Read 2 Peter 1:19–21. According to these verses, where do Bible prophecies come from? What does the fact that the messages come from God tell us about the authority of the Bible?` 

According to Peter, the prophecies of the Old Testament did not come from humans. The prophets (special messengers) were moved by the Holy Spirit in such a way that they received messages that came from God. These men did not create the messages. These men were used by God to carry the messages. Peter makes it very clear that the Holy Spirit made the prophecies known to men. It is true that prophecies were written down by men. But “prophecy never came simply because a prophet wanted it to” (2 Peter 1:21, NIrV). God is the divine Source (starting point) who gives the Bible its final authority over our lives.

`God used humans to share His Word with the world. How can we let the Holy Spirit use us to share with others what has been written in the Bible?` 

##### DEFINITIONS

1.	**revelation**—a sign or message from God.
2.	**inspiration**—being moved by the Holy Spirit to do the will of God. Inspiration is the word used to describe how God works through the Holy Spirit and humans to give His message to the world. For example, holy men were inspired (led; moved) by the Holy Spirit to write the Bible.
3.	**prophecies**—special messages from God to His people.