---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AND INSPIRATION
date:   02/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT AND INSPIRATION

2 Peter 1:21

Inspiration is the word used to describe how God works through the Holy Spirit and humans to give His message to the world. The work of the Holy Spirit is the reason we find an agreement between all the truths in the Bible. The Holy Spirit is the Spirit of Truth (John 14:17; John 15:26; John 16:13). So, He will lead us into all truth. 

`Read 2 Peter 1:21; Deuteronomy 18:18; Micah 3:8; and 1 Corinthians 2:9–13. What do these verses tell us about how the Bible writers were involved in making the Bible? What do these verses also tell us about how God was involved in the making of the Bible?`

The process of being guided “along by the Holy Spirit” (2 Peter 1:21, NIV) shows how important the work of the Holy Spirit is in inspiration. In 1 Corinthians 2:9–13, the apostle (teacher; leader) Paul teaches that the Holy Spirit guides the work of revelation and inspiration. To us, Paul says, God made known the secret things that “no eye has seen.” Paul mentions these hidden things in verse 9. He also says that God has made them known through the Spirit (1 Corinthians 2:10). The apostles have received this “Spirit who is from God. The Spirit helps us [the apostles] understand what God has freely given us” (1 Corinthians 2:12, NASB). 

It is true that many parts of the Bible are a result of firsthand revelation from God. But not everything in the Bible was made known in that manner. Sometimes in the Bible God used the writings from other documents (Joshua 10:13; Luke 1:1–3) to show and communicate His message. So, all parts of the Bible are chosen carefully by God. They are inspired (2 Timothy 3:16). Because the Bible is inspired, Paul says, “Everything written in the past was written to teach us. The Scriptures [Bible] give us strength to go on. They encourage us and give us hope” (Romans 15:4, NIrV). God chooses people to communicate in human words the inspired thoughts He gave them. We can trust that these thoughts are from Him. 

“God has chosen to communicate His truth to the world by humans. By His Holy Spirit, He gives humans the skill and power to do His work. He guides the mind to choose what to speak and what to write. These messages were given to humans. But they come from Heaven.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 26.

##### DEFINITIONS

4.	**inspired**—given to Bible writers through the power and with the help of the Holy Spirit.