---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT MAKES SURE THE BIBLE CAN BE TRUSTED AND IS TRUE
date:   03/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT MAKES SURE THE BIBLE CAN BE TRUSTED AND IS TRUE

Psalm 119:160
 
Revelation is the way God uses to make truth known to chosen humans. Inspiration involves the work of the Holy Spirit in guarding God’s truth that human writers wrote down. The Holy Spirit helps keep the words of the writers pure so that their words will have God’s full approval. God hates false witness (lying) (Exodus 20:16). In fact, He cannot lie (Hebrews 6:18). He is called a God of truth (Psalm 31:5; Isaiah 65:16). In the same way, the Holy Spirit is called “the Spirit of truth” (John 14:17).

`Read Psalm 119:160. What does this verse teach us about anything that God makes known to us?`

`Read John 17:17. What does Jesus say to us here about God’s Word?` 

The Word of God can be trusted. It should be accepted completely. It is not our job to sit in judgment on the Bible. But the Bible has the right and the authority to judge us. “The word of God is alive and active. It is sharper than any sword that has two edges. It cuts deep enough to separate soul from spirit. It can separate bones from joints. It judges the thoughts and purposes of the heart” (Hebrews 4:12, NIrV).

Of course, the Bible was written by those living in times and places and cultures that are different from ours. But we should not use that fact to weaken or dismiss (stop thinking about) the message of the Bible to us. Suppose that door to weakening or dismissing the Bible is opened. Then what happens is that humans put their wisdom and authority above the wisdom and authority of the Bible. They decide what is truth. The result is that many people turn away from truth while claiming to believe the Bible! They turn from such truths as a six-day Creation, a worldwide flood, the virgin birth, the resurrection of Jesus in a body, and the second coming of Jesus in person. These are just a few of many Bible truths that many people have turned away from. They do not believe these truths. Instead, they sit in judgment on the Bible. But that is not a path any of us should ever take.

`Why is it so important to yield our own judgment to the Word of God rather than the other way around? Put another way, why is it so wrong for the truth of the Bible to give way to our idea of what truth is?`

##### DEFINITIONS

5. **virgin birth**—a virgin is a woman who has not had sex. The virgin birth describes the way Jesus was born. Mary, His mother, was visited by the Holy Spirit. He caused her to become pregnant without having sex. So, Jesus’ mother was human but His Father was God.
6. **resurrection**—return to life from the dead.