---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AS TEACHER
date:   04/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT AS TEACHER

1 Corinthians 2:13, 14

The Holy Spirit had an important part in giving us the Bible. And the Holy Spirit also helps us to understand it correctly. Sin darkens the minds of humans. We do not understand truth on our own. We are separated from God (Ephesians 4:18). So, we need the Spirit to help us to understand the Bible. The Spirit who helps us to understand the Bible is the same Spirit who made it known and caused it to be written down as God’s Word. The problem is not that the Bible is difficult to understand. The problem is that our attitude toward God makes understanding the Bible difficult. God makes Himself known to us in the Bible. But our thoughts and feelings are so spoiled and ruined by sin that we fail to appreciate Him.

The Holy Spirit is a Teacher. He desires to lead us into a deeper understanding of the Bible. He wants us to feel joy in our appreciation of the Bible.

`Read 1 Corinthians 2:13, 14. What does Paul say in these verses about the need to understand spiritual things in a spiritual way?` 

We must depend on the Holy Spirit to understand the Bible. Without the Holy Spirit, the spiritual importance of Bible verses will not be understood. What is more, as sinful humans, we often are opposed to God’s truth. We are opposed to God’s Word because we fail to understand it. But we also are opposed to God’s Word because we do not want to follow it. Without the Holy Spirit, there is no love for God’s message. There is no hope, no trust, and no loving response (answer) from us. What the Spirit makes known is in harmony with the truth already shown in the Bible. 

`“There are many different opinions about what the Bible teaches. These differences do not come from any unclearness in the book itself. The differences are a result of the blindness and prejudice on the part of those who explain its meaning. Men ignore the plain truths of the Bible to follow their own wrong ideas.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, January 27, 1885. How has your pride kept you from living out the truth of the Bible in your life? In what parts of your life do your own desires keep you from accepting God’s truth? How can you learn to surrender everything to God?`

##### DEFINITIONS

7.	**prejudice**—a feeling of like or dislike for someone or something that is not based on reason.