---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AND THE BIBLE
date:   05/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT AND THE BIBLE

John 5:39, 46, 47

The Holy Spirit has made known and communicated the contents of the Bible to humans. He will never lead us against, or away from, the Bible in any way.

`Read John 5:39, 46, 47 and John 7:38. What authority does Jesus refer to in these verses? How does the Bible prove that Jesus is the Messiah (the Chosen One; Savior)?`

Some people claim to have received special “revelations” and instructions from the Holy Spirit. But often these messages and teachings go against the clear message of the Bible. For these people, the Holy Spirit is a higher authority than God’s Word. What happens when we do not value the Bible and do not follow its clear message? The answer is that we will walk on dangerous ground. And we will not follow the leading of God’s Spirit. The Bible is our only safeguard.

“The Holy Spirit speaks to the mind through the Bible. He impresses [puts] the truth in the heart. In this way, the Holy Spirit shows us error. He forces error from the soul. The Spirit of truth works through the Bible. In this way, Christ brings His chosen people under His loving control.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 671.

Ellen G. White has made it very clear: “The Spirit was not meant to replace the authority of the Bible. The Bible makes it very clear that the Bible is the standard by which all teaching and experience must be tested [proven].”—Adapted from The Great Controversy, page 9.

As we can see, the Holy Spirit is not meant to replace the Word of God. Instead, He works in harmony with the Bible and through the Bible to draw us to Christ. This process shows us that the Bible is the only standard we have for spiritual truth. Suppose someone makes claims that go against the Word of God. Then we can be sure that person is not speaking the truth. We cannot judge hearts or motives (reasons for doing something). But we can judge theology. And the only standard we have to judge theology is the Word of God. 

`What are some of the teachings that people are trying to promote (teach; push) in the church that clearly go against the Word of God? What should our response (answer) be to (1) the people promoting these errors, and (2) to the errors themselves?`

##### DEFINITIONS

8. **claim**—to say something is true that may not be true.
9. **controversy**—war between Christ and Satan.
10. **claims**—statements saying that something is true that may not be true.
11. **theology**—religious beliefs or ideas.