---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   06/01/2017
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

Read Ellen G. White, “The Scriptures [Bible] a Safeguard,” pages 593–602, in The Great Controversy. Read also Ellen G. White, “Let Not Your Heart Be Troubled,” pages 662–680, in The Desire of Ages.

Think about all the truth that we know only because it has been shown to us in the Bible. For example, think about Creation. There is a big difference between what the Word of God teaches about how we were created and what human wisdom teaches about how we were created. Human wisdom teaches that we were created through the process of what is now called “the neo-Darwinian synthesis.” Look at how wrong humans have it! Think, too, about the second coming of Jesus and the resurrection of the dead at the end of time. These are truths that we never could have learned on our own. They had to be made known to us. Think about other truths that we know only because they have been told to us through the Bible. And here is an important fact: such important truths are found only in the Bible. What does this fact tell us about how the Word of God needs to be at the center of our lives?

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`Suppose we have spiritual questions. Why then is it safer to trust the Bible to guide us instead of our own thoughts and feelings? What happens when we do not accept the Bible as the standard of truth? Why must we test all teachings and even our spiritual experiences by the Bible?` 

`The word truth is often used in many different ways. In class, talk about the idea of “truth.” Talk about what it means when we say something is true and when something is not true. What does it mean for something to be “true”?`

`What should your church do and say if someone claims to have “new light [truth]”?` 

`Talk more about the big difference between how the Bible teaches we were created and what human wisdom teaches. Human wisdom teaches that the theory of evolution is truth. This theory goes completely against the Bible message in every way. What should that difference tell us about why we must trust the Bible above every other source of knowledge?`

##### DEFINITIONS

12. **neo-Darwinian synthesis**—neo means “new.” Darwinian refers to Charles Darwin, the father of the theory (unproved idea) of evolution. Evolution is a theory that teaches that the differences between modern plants and animals are because of changes that happened by a natural process over a very long time. Neo-Darwinian synthesis is a new theory of evolution that is made by combining some of Darwin’s old ideas on evolution with new ideas about evolution as well.