---
title:  'Sabbath: Knowing And Showing God’s Love'
date:  12/12/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 1–2; Exodus 16:14–29; Isaiah 58:1–14; Matthew 12:1–13; Acts 13:14–45.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Then Jesus said to them [the Jewish religious leaders], ‘The Sabbath day was made for man. Man was not made for the Sabbath day. So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath day’ ” (Mark 2:27, 28, NIrV).

JODIE was the only Seventh-day Adventist at her college. She chose not to go to some school parties because they were on the Sabbath. Jodie’s choice not to go made her beliefs about the Sabbath known to everyone.

One day one of her friends Gayle told Jodie that her husband was going to be out of town for six weeks. “Do you want to spend the next six Friday nights with me?” Gayle asked. Gayle knew Jodie did “nothing” on those nights anyway, so why not spend the time with her?

For the next four Friday nights Jodie and Gayle ate together, and shared their Christian experience. The 5th weekend, Gayle told Jodie that she had been downtown shopping earlier that day. “I looked at my watch and said to myself, ‘Oh, good. Sabbath is very soon!’ All the sudden I saw that over the last four Friday nights, I had a new Christian experience. I learned more about God. My faith grew deeper too. All because of the Sabbath.”

It’s an interesting story. It shows how we can think about the Sabbath. It is not just a day of rest. It is also a way of teaching people more about God and His love.