---
title:  Time To Be Filled With Surprise And Wonder 
date:  13/12/2020
---

Have you ever wondered why God chose to give us two stories in Genesis about how He made the earth? Genesis 1 tells us about how God made the earth in six days. The chapter ends with His making man and woman on Day six. Genesis 2 looks at the same story but spends more time talking about what happened on Day six. Adam is the center of the picture now. Chapter 2 shows us that God made everything for the man: the garden, the rivers, the animals, and, of course, the woman.

The story about how God made the earth is too wonderful for just one chapter. We need two. First, we need a chapter that tells us about the powerful God who is an artist who loves beauty. Then we need a chapter that shows us a God who makes a human family to love and care for each other and everything that God made.

`Read Genesis 1 and 2. Then think about how the first Sabbath (Genesis 2:1–3) helps us remember the first story about how God made the earth in Genesis chapter 1. The first Sabbath also helps us to remember the second story about how God made the earth in Genesis chapter 2. Genesis says that God blessed the Sabbath and made it holy. What does that mean?`

Make a picture of this in your mind: You are Adam or Eve on that first Sabbath. It’s your first day alive! It’s your first day with your husband or wife. It’s your first day with God. This is a day for learning many things! You start to learn about the God who made all the beauty around you. You are filled with wonder as you see an elephant and then a frog. You smile as you see the giraffe or buffalo playing and having fun. You are silent as you look at the many colors and shapes around you and listen to the beautiful music of the birds. You feel happiness as you taste, smell, and enjoy the different fruits and flowers in the garden. Most of all, you start to learn about love and caring for people. You learn this from and for your God. Then you show it to the rest of the ones He made.

The first Sabbath was not a boring day of doing nothing for Adam and Eve. It was a day made by God. It was a time for the first man and woman to think about the One who made them and everything He made. It was a time for humans to be filled with surprise and wonder.