---
title:  Time For Learning Again 
date:  14/12/2020
---

When God asks Moses to lead the Israelites out of Egypt, it is clear that God’s people need to learn who God is again. God wants the Israelites to worship Him. He promises them a wonderful future. The Sabbath is an important learning experience for God’s people. It helps them to discover what they have forgotten. The Sabbath also shows other countries around Israel that Israel has a special connection with God. The experience of the manna shows God’s way of educating the Israelites.

`In Exodus 16:14–29, what lessons do the Israelites need to learn?`

God gives the Israelites the miracles of manna. God gives them just enough food for each day. What if God gave His people more than they needed each day? Then they may forget that God took care of their needs. So, every day God did a miracle for the people. They saw God’s care. On the Sabbath, things were different. God wanted to show His people that the Sabbath was special. So, He did two miracles, not just one. God gave His people double food on Friday. Then God blessed the food so that it did not spoil overnight. That left the Sabbath free so that Israelites did not have to collect any manna. They had time to think about the God who made them free from sin and the Egyptians. They had more time to think about what it means to be God’s people.

The Israelites ate this manna for 40 years (Exodus 16:35). God also tells Moses to keep a pot of manna to help the Israelites remember how God fed them in the desert (Exodus 16:32, 33). It also helped them to remember their beautiful experience of the Sabbath day. There are also other times when God shows Israel that the Sabbath is special.

The Sabbath is part of God’s plan to help the Israelites learn about God again. It also helps them to understand how to be God’s holy and chosen people. God asks His people to obey and keep the Sabbath holy for a special reason. It will bring them close to God. It will give them a deeper understanding about God’s love too.

`Someone tells you that the Sabbath is “boring.” How can you help him see it as a time to learn about God?`