---
title:  Time For Putting The Most Important Things First 
date:  15/12/2020
---

Israel had many ups and down in their experience with God. The way they kept the Sabbath showed what was in their hearts. When Israel did not respect the Sabbath, they showed God that He was not important in their lives (Jeremiah 17:19–27). When Israel honored the Sabbath, it showed that their lives were right with God.

`Read Isaiah 58:1–14. What is God saying to His people in these verses that is important for us today?`

The Israelites act as if they follow God. They worship Him. They fast, or eat no food for a short time for religious reasons. But the way they live their lives shows that they are only pretending to be God’s followers. There is no real wish in their hearts to obey the law of God. Isaiah continues in chapter 58 to show what God expects from His people.

This is not all. Read Isaiah 58:13, 14, ERV. Why does God talk about the Sabbath at the end of this chapter? Isaiah warns Israel: you need to “ ‘stop doing things to please yourself on that special day” (ERV). In other words, the Sabbath isn’t the time to pretend to worship God. It isn’t the time to be thinking your own thoughts and living a life that that doesn’t honor God. The Sabbath must be a joyful day and holy. The rest of Isaiah 58 shows that the Sabbath is about the joy we feel in learning about God and His plan for us. Then we must let God live in us. We must show His love to other people. So, we must do more than simply worship God by doing all the right things. We must let God change our hearts. Then we can keep the Sabbath holy. Learning must change our lives. Sabbath is time for learning and living the Bible truths that matter the most.

`Does the Sabbath fill you with joy? If not, what can you do to change that? Have you learned to “honor” the Sabbath? Talk with your class about what it means to honor the Sabbath?`