---
title:  Time For Balance 
date:  16/12/2020
---

Jesus respected and honored the law of God (Matthew 5:17, 18). But Jesus did not always agree with the religious leaders about the law. The leaders often argued with Jesus about how to keep the Sabbath. The leaders of the synagogues, or local places of worship in Israel, educated the Jews about the law on the Sabbath. The leaders read the Torah on the Sabbath. The Torah was the first five books in the Old Testament. The religious leaders knew the do’s and don’ts of the law. But Jesus taught that Sabbath keeping went much deeper than the things that a person can and cannot do on the Sabbath.

`Read Matthew 12:1–13 and Luke 13:10–17. What do these verses show us that Jesus taught the people in His time and to us today?`

Jesus healed on the Sabbath. His miracles started the Jews talking about many important spiritual questions. What was sin? What is the reason for the Sabbath? Was Jesus equal with the Father? How much power did Jesus have?

Jesus’ feelings about the Sabbath are shown in the memory verse for this week: “Then Jesus said to them [the Jewish religious leaders], ‘The Sabbath day was made for man. Man was not made for the Sabbath day. So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath day’ ” (Mark 2:27, 28, NIrV). Jesus wanted to show that the Sabbath should not be a heavy load. God “made” the Sabbath to be a time for people to learn about God. One way we learn about God on the Sabbath is by spending time in nature.

Jesus asks questions to get His followers, the Jewish leaders, and the crowds to think more deeply about the Bible, faith, and God. It is easy for us to think only about rules and laws and forget about God. Rules are meant to help us know better the God we serve. This knowledge leads to our obedience to God and trust in Jesus’ gift of mercy to us.

`What is the Sabbath day to you? Is it a day of just don’t-do-this and don’t-do-that? Or is it a time to really rest in the Lord and know Him better? If so, how can you change so that you can get the blessing from the Sabbath that God wants you to have?`