---
title:  A Time For Community 
date:  17/12/2020
---

Jesus showed His followers that worshiping in the synagogue on Sabbath is important. A synagogue is a Jewish place of worship. After Jesus woke up from the dead, His followers continued to worship in the synagogue on Sabbath. The synagogue became one of the most important places for Jesus’ followers to talk about Jesus’ resurrection, or waking up from the dead. The Sabbath gave Jesus’ followers the perfect time to come together and learn. Jesus was the Hebrew Messiah, or Chosen One. The Messiah was shown in the Old Testament. The Old Testament was read in the synagogue each Sabbath. What better place did the believers have for sharing Jesus than in the synagogue? (read Acts 13:16, 26).

`Look at these verses: Acts 13:14–45; Acts 16:13, 14; Acts 17:1–5; and Acts 18:4.`

Paul and the other followers of Jesus in these verses share their personal story about Jesus. Paul talks about Israel’s history, starting with “ ‘our fathers’ ” (Acts 13:17) in Egypt. Then Paul talks about Israel’s history from the time they start living in the Promised Land to the time of the judges. Paul also talks about the kings and David. From there, Paul talks about Jesus.

Paul and the other leaders and teachers showed how the Bible supported their personal experience and understanding about God. These men shared information. Then they discussed it and talked about it. So, they shared their personal experience, shared the Bible, preached, and taught. This was a very powerful combination. As the Bible verses show, some of the religious leaders were jealous of Jesus’ followers and their power.

The Seventh-day Adventist Church has a strong history of sharing Jesus in the same way Paul and Jesus’ other followers did. We share our personal experience about Jesus. We teach, preach, and share Bible truth. This happens in Sabbath School, during the sermon, and in other Sabbath meetings. This is all part of our church’s education plan. Our worship of God is a time for learning more about Him. This is an important part of our Sabbath experience.