---
title:  Further Thought
date:  18/12/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Sabbath,” pages 281–289, in The Desire of Ages.

“God gave His people many things to separate them from the people around them. The Sabbath showed this separation more than anything else. God wanted the Jews to keep the Sabbath holy to show everyone that they worshiped God. The Sabbath showed that the Jews did not worship false gods. The Sabbath showed the Jews connection with God too. But to keep the Sabbath holy, men must be holy. By faith they must accept Jesus’ gift of mercy and His holy life. God told Israel: “Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy” (Exodus 20:8, KJV). The Lord also told Israel, “You are to be my holy people” (Exodus 22:31, ICB). Living a holy life is the only way that the Jews can keep the Sabbath holy. Then they will show that they are the worshipers of God.”—The Desire of Ages, page 283, adapted.

“Then the Sabbath is a sign of Jesus’ power to make us holy. . . . God gives the Sabbath to everyone who becomes a part of God’s people, Israel. We become part of God’s people by faith in Jesus Christ.”—The Desire of Ages, pages 288, 289, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Often Seventh-day Adventists spend a lot of time worrying about what they can do and cannot do on the Sabbath. Come up with a set of questions that help Sabbath keepers to think about the ideas we studied this week. (Remember, these ideas talk about the Sabbath as a time for education.) Here is an example of a question: “What do I do on the Sabbath that helps me learn more about God’s love?`

`Think some more about the quotations from Ellen G. White in today’s study. These quotations show that Sabbath keeping is not just about rules. So, what does it mean to “become part of God’s people by faith in Jesus Christ”? What does it mean to be made “holy”? What does this have to do with the Sabbath?`

`In what ways can you make your Sabbath experience better? Think about three things you want to learn by keeping the Sabbath holy in the next 12 months.`