---
title:  Faithful Daniel
date:  03/05/2026
---

Daniel is one of the great heroes of the Bible. We know the first story too (see Daniel 1): “Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king’s delicacies” (Dan. 1:8, NKJV). Also, to Daniel and his three friends, “God gave them knowledge and skill in all literature and wisdom; and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams” (Dan. 1:17, NKJV). The Bible describes Daniel as wise (Dan. 1:20; Dan. 2:14, 21, 23, 48) because the Spirit of God was in him (Dan. 4:9, 18; Dan. 5:14; Dan. 6:3), and he was greatly beloved by Heaven (Dan. 9:23, Dan. 10:11). These are some descriptors of a man who had a strong, abiding connection with God.

In Daniel 2, when King Nebuchadnezzar issued a death decree to all wise men in Babylon, Daniel sought God’s mercy concerning the secret of the king’s dream (Dan. 2:18). When God revealed the king’s dream to Daniel, he immediately prayed.

`Read Daniel 2:20–23. Why did Daniel pray, and what can we learn from this prayer?`

As the years passed by and kings rose and fell, Daniel remained an adviser to the kings and was described as distinguished “because an excellent spirit was in him; and the king gave thought to setting him over the whole realm” (Dan. 6:3, NKJV). “He was faithful; nor was there any error or fault found in him” (Dan. 6:4, NKJV). Despite fierce jealousy and evil plotting (Dan. 6:5–9) from his peers, Daniel remained ever constant and fearless in his prayer life.

`Read Daniel 6:10, 11. What do these verses tell us about Daniel?`

When faced with difficulty, Daniel prayed. Although the threat was against his life, he was consistent and persistent in prayer (three times every day, as was his custom), and predictable (at his open window three times a day as he prayed toward Jerusalem). His prayer was a physical act (he knelt) and focused on thanksgiving and supplication.

`In light of a story like this, how weak are your excuses for not praying?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The prophet’s enemies counted on Daniel’s firm adherence to principle for the success of their plan. And they were not mistaken in their estimate of his character. He quickly read their malignant purpose in framing the decree, but he did not change his course in a single particular. Why should he cease to pray now, when he most needed to pray? Rather would he relinquish life itself, than his hope of help in God. With calmness he performed his duties as chief of the princes; and at the hour of prayer he went to his chamber, and with his windows open toward Jerusalem, in accordance with his usual custom, he offered his petition to the God of heaven. He did not try to conceal his act. Although he knew full well the consequences of his fidelity to God, his spirit faltered not. Before those who were plotting his ruin, he would not allow it even to appear that his connection with Heaven was severed. In all cases where the king had a right to command, Daniel would obey; but neither the king nor his decree could make him swerve from allegiance to the King of kings.\
Thus the prophet boldly yet quietly and humbly declared that no earthly power has a right to interpose between the soul and God. Surrounded by idolaters, he was a faithful witness to this truth. His dauntless adherence to right was a bright light in the moral darkness of that heathen court. Daniel stands before the world today a worthy example of Christian fearlessness and fidelity.\
For an entire day the princes watched Daniel. Three times they saw him go to his chamber, and three times they heard his voice lifted in earnest intercession to God. The next morning they laid their complaint before the king. Daniel, his most honored and faithful statesman, had set the royal decree at defiance. “Hast thou not signed a decree,” they reminded him, “that every man that shall ask a petition of any god or man within thirty days, save of thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions?”\
“The thing is true,” the king answered, “according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not.”\
Exultantly they now informed Darius of the conduct of his most trusted adviser. “That Daniel, which is of the children of the captivity of Judah,” they exclaimed, “regardeth not thee, O king, nor the decree that thou hast signed, but maketh his petition three times a day.” . . .\
From the story of Daniel’s deliverance we may learn that in seasons of trial and gloom God’s children should be just what they were when their prospects were bright with hope and their surroundings all that they could desire. Daniel in the lions’ den was the same Daniel who stood before the king as chief among the ministers of state and as a prophet of the Most High. A man whose heart is stayed upon God will be the same in the hour of his greatest trial as he is in prosperity, when the light and favor of God and of man beam upon him. Faith reaches to the unseen, and grasps eternal realities.\
Heaven is very near those who suffer for righteousness’ sake. Christ identifies His interests with the interests of His faithful people; He suffers in the person of His saints, and whoever touches His chosen ones touches Him. The power that is near to deliver from physical harm or distress is also near to save from the greater evil, making it possible for the servant of God to maintain his integrity under all circumstances, and to triumph through divine grace.—Prophet and Kings, pp. 540, 542, 545.
