---
title:  Moses, Godly Leader
date:  06/05/2026
---

Although Enoch clearly had a very close relationship with God, we have more insight into Moses’ relationship with God and can even read numerous accounts of Moses’ conversations with Him. As we journey with Moses through the ups and downs of this humble leader’s life, we see time and time again that the single most important part of his life and the secret to his success as a godly leader was his constant communication and abiding relationship with God.

`Read Exodus 33:15–23. What is the content and the manner of the conversation between Moses and the Lord?`

Imagine what it would have been like to speak with God and hear His voice so plainly. It’s a wonder the Israelites didn’t seek this kind of communion with God themselves instead of begging Moses to speak to them on God’s behalf (Exod. 20:18–21). Yet, God had prepared Moses for this, beginning with their interaction at the burning bush, on this very same mountain. Although we read of other personal prayers of Moses, we see that he’s almost continually in God’s presence, asking for guidance and interceding for the people he is leading.

**On two occasions, Moses intercedes for family members. What situations surrounded his intercession, and what would have happened had he not stepped in to bridge the gap?**

`Aaron: Exod. 32:1–14, 31–34; Deut. 9:20`

`Miriam: Num. 12:13`

What is particularly amazing about the interaction with Miriam is that Moses was the recipient of her poor treatment and jealousy. He could easily have stood back and let God deliver the punishment Miriam and Aaron deserved. Instead, he was quick to forgive and intercede for his sister’s healing. What a powerful reflection of God’s forgiving grace for sinners is seen here in the actions of Moses.

`Read Matthew 5:44 and Colossians 3:13. How can you learn to do what you’re told here? Why is it important that you do?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Only a few days had passed since the Hebrews had made a solemn covenant with God to obey His voice. They had stood trembling with terror before the mount, listening to the words of the Lord, “Thou shalt have no other gods before Me.” The glory of God still hovered above Sinai in the sight of the congregation; but they turned away, and asked for other gods. “They made a calf in Horeb, and worshiped the molten image. Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox.” Psalm 106:19, 20. How could greater ingratitude have been shown, or more daring insult offered, to Him who had revealed Himself to them as a tender father and an all-powerful king!\
Moses in the mount was warned of the apostasy in the camp and was directed to return without delay. “Go, get thee down,” were the words of God; “thy people, which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves: they have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them. They have made them a molten calf, and have worshiped it.” God might have checked the movement at the outset; but He suffered it to come to this height that He might teach all a lesson in His punishment of treason and apostasy.\
God’s covenant with His people had been disannulled, and He declared to Moses, “Let Me alone, that My wrath may wax hot against them, and that I may consume them: and I will make of thee a great nation.” The people of Israel, especially the mixed multitude, would be constantly disposed to rebel against God. They would also murmur against their leader, and would grieve him by their unbelief and stubbornness, and it would be a laborious and soul-trying work to lead them through to the Promised Land. Their sins had already forfeited the favor of God, and justice called for their destruction. The Lord therefore proposed to destroy them, and make of Moses a mighty nation.\
“Let Me alone, . . . that I may consume them,” were the words of God. If God had purposed to destroy Israel, who could plead for them? How few but would have left the sinners to their fate! How few but would have gladly exchanged a lot of toil and burden and sacrifice, repaid with ingratitude and murmuring, for a position of ease and honor, when it was God Himself that offered the release.\
But Moses discerned ground for hope where there appeared only discouragement and wrath. The words of God, “Let Me alone,” he understood not to forbid but to encourage intercession, implying that nothing but the prayers of Moses could save Israel, but that if thus entreated, God would spare His people. He “besought the Lord his God, and said, Lord, why doth Thy wrath wax hot against Thy people, which Thou hast brought forth out of the land of Egypt with great power, and with a mighty hand?”—Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 317, 318.
