---
title:  Further Thought
date:  08/05/2026
---

Ultimately, we should pray because we love God so much, and we just can’t help sharing everything in our lives with Him: our joys and life’s “wins,” our burdens and worries, our requests and daily needs. “We may keep so near to God that in every unexpected trial our thoughts will turn to Him as naturally as the flower turns to the sun. Keep your wants, your joys, your sorrows, your cares, and your fears before God. You cannot burden Him; you cannot weary Him. He who numbers the hairs of your head is not indifferent to the wants of His children. . . . His heart of love is touched by our sorrows and even by our utterances of them. Take to Him everything that perplexes the mind. Nothing is too great for Him to bear, for He holds up worlds, He rules over all the affairs of the universe. Nothing that in any way concerns our peace is too small for Him to notice. There is no chapter in our experience too dark for Him to read; there is no perplexity too difficult for Him to unravel. No calamity can befall the least of His children, no anxiety harass the soul, no joy cheer, no sincere prayer escape the lips, of which our heavenly Father is unobservant, or in which He takes no immediate interest. . . . The relations between God and each soul are as distinct and full as though there were not another soul upon the earth to share His watchcare, not another soul for whom He gave His beloved Son.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pp. 99, 100.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Would you describe prayer as beautiful or burdensome? What has contributed to your perspective?`

`There are so many insightful messages in the quote above. Which thought particularly resonates with you?`

`Of the three Bible characters studied this week (Daniel, Enoch, and Moses), whose prayer life do you most relate to, and why?`

**Summary**: As we read about the prayer giants of the Bible, it can be easy to think that we can’t have a relationship that close to God or be quite as committed. But we can. Like Daniel, we can be steadfast and faithful in kneeling every day, despite opposition. Like Enoch, we can choose to walk and talk with God, turning to Him before we do the work He’s called us to do. Like Moses, we can lead those within our sphere of influence, interceding for our families and those in our com­munities when we choose to abide under the shadow of the Almighty, our Leader and Friend.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ Triumphant, “How Did Enoch Walk,” February 6, p. 43.\
Christ Triumphant, “Enoch’s Faith Was Always Evident,” February 11, p. 48.\