---
title:  inTro
date:   09/08/2026
---

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Matthew 26:36–56

### Strangely Silent

Some people seem to never be frazzled by anything. When others are stressed beyond bearing, they remain calm and composed. Sometimes it feels like nothing can shake them. I once heard of an Adventist evangelist who had this kind of reputation. Everybody he worked with thought he was utterly unflappable. Whether answering tough questions from critics or handling a severe case of demon possession, it seemed to his friends that he was always unfazed and unbothered. He appeared to be prepared and ready for anything that came his way.

One day, the evangelist was called in to see the conference president, who had his whole evangelism team already seated in the room. The conference president informed him that he had offered his whole team positions as pastors in that conference. For the first time ever, this man was speechless, even distraught. The evangelism team had never seen their leader like this. Clearly, he was shaken at the idea of losing these people, whom he had been mentoring and working with for years—and he was powerless to do anything about it.

This story may provide a bit of insight into the disciples’ experience as they watched Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. He had become “strangely silent.”<sup>1</sup> He seemed somber. He was no longer calm and collected. He was becoming emotional. It seemed He was falling apart, showing unusual vulnerability. The disciples saw Jesus in a different light than they had ever seen Him before. The disciples’ confidence had always been rooted in Jesus’ confidence. Nothing shook Him. They, too, had seen their Mentor face complicated situations, and Jesus always knew just how to handle them. Whether demonic voices were shrieking at Him or the Pharisees were trying to trap Him in His words, the disciples knew Jesus as One who could handle any situation. Here in the Garden, He bore a weight they couldn’t understand—and they didn’t know what to do about it. Christ’s behavior was mysterious to them. They had no previous experience to compare this distress to. Something different was happening in Gethsemane. “As they approached the garden, the disciples had marked the change that came over their Master. Never before had they seen Him so utterly sad and silent. As He proceeded, this strange sadness deepened.”<sup>2</sup> The disciples were privileged to be close to Christ, where they could support Him when He needed them most. However, rather than seeking to understand what was happening and to encourage Him, the disciples went to sleep, leaving Christ to struggle alone. Feelings of loneliness and isolation deepened His sorrow and added to His burden.

Christ knew that He was walking into the “valley of the shadow of death” (Ps. 23:4). He understood exactly where His path led, yet He did not resist or flee. He held the Scriptures close to His heart, and they guided Him step by step through these dark hours. He summarized His whole experience in the Garden with these words: “But all this was done that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled” (Matt. 26:56). Scripture gave him a keen foreknowledge of the events unfolding before Him. Knowing what was to come could have filled Him with rage or fear, but He instead felt an overwhelming sorrow—a kind of sorrow that’s beyond explanation. This week, we’ll delve deeper into the causes of this sorrow and the events of Gethsemane.

### inScribe

Make an outline or mind map of Matthew 26:36–56. Write out verses 36–41 from the translation of your choice or rewrite them in your own words. What was Jesus experiencing?

Review your scribed passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [Arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`What special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 685.

<sup>2</sup> White, _The Desire of Ages_, 685, 686.