---
title:  inGest
date:   10/08/2026
---

### The Bitter Cup

Jesus brought the eleven disciples to the Garden of Gethsemane. Judas had already left the group to betray his Master into the hands of the religious leaders. Jesus left eight disciples somewhere near the entrance and took Peter, James, and John alone with Him into the deeper recesses of the Garden, hoping they would support Him by praying for Him during this terrible struggle.

Jesus longed for human companionship and support. This moment provided a unique opportunity for the disciples to give something back to Jesus in His time of need. They could feel the anguish in Christ’s voice when He cried out, “My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here and watch with Me” (Matt. 26:38). Christ’s agonizing words communicated to the disciples that this night was different from any other. Breaking beneath the stress, He stumbled a little farther, fell on His face, and prayed, “O My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from Me” (Matt. 26:39). Christ utterly dreaded the cup He was about to drink.

Revelation describes this cup as “the cup of His indignation” (Rev. 14:10). Some translations phrase it as “the cup of his anger” (ESV) or “the cup of his wrath” (NIV). In the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus wrestled with the weight of God’s wrath toward sin. As our substitute, Jesus, the Sinless One, took what we sinners deserve. He drank the bitter cup of divine judgment so that He could give us His cup of divine blessing instead.

Jesus struggled alone without encouragement or help even from His closest friends. Peter, James, and John fell asleep as if it were just another ordinary night. Yet even here, Jesus showed compassion: “The weakness of His disciples awakened the sympathy of Jesus. He feared that they would not be able to endure the test which would come upon them in His betrayal and death. He did not reprove them, but said, ‘Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation.’ Even in His great agony, He was seeking to excuse their weakness. ‘The spirit truly is ready,’ He said, ‘but the flesh is weak.’”<sup>1</sup> When Jesus needed His disciples the most, they were not there for Him. Despite Christ’s warnings in the upper room, the remaining disciples would soon forsake Him and flee. Nevertheless, Christ’s love for them was not diminished. He drank this cup for them, and for us.

**Questions to consider:**

`In what ways do we fall asleep when Jesus needs us to be wide awake?`

`What does it look like to watch and pray?`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 689.