---
title:  inTerpret
date:   11/08/2026
---

### Put Away Your Sword

Judas brought a group of men to the garden where Jesus was praying. When Jesus asked who they were looking for, they replied, “Jesus of Nazareth.” Jesus responded, “I am He” (John 18:5). However, the word “He” as seen in most translations is supplied, meaning His actual reply was simply, “I am.” Jesus here identified Himself using a term that’s a title for God (John 8:58). Hearing those words, the men immediately fell to the ground, evidencing Christ’s divine power and giving them a final opportunity to reconsider their course of action before arresting Him.

Realizing what was about to happen, Peter had an idea: he would defend Jesus with one of the swords He earlier told them to get (Luke 22:36–38). He took a powerful swing at Malchus, the high priest’s servant. It seems he missed his intended target but still managed to cut off the man’s ear.

Jesus responded to Peter not with affirmation but with rebuke. Jesus never advocated for violence. He did cleanse the temple of the money changers and made a whip out of cords, but even then, He never struck anyone. Clearly, Peter was going rogue. Jesus rebuked him, saying that all who take the sword will perish by the sword. This shows that Jesus was not advocating for violence when He asked them to have a sword in the first place. He never intended for them to use it. Their pacifist stance even while armed would have sent a clear message about the nature of Christ’s kingdom—a message that Peter’s actions threatened to counteract.

Jesus told Peter He could summon twelve legions of angels to protect Him if He wanted to, but He was actively choosing not to. He then questioned Peter: “Shall I not drink the cup which My Father has given Me?” (John 18:11). He also asked, “How then could the Scriptures be fulfilled, that it must happen thus?” (Matt. 26:54). In essence, He said, “Peter, your actions fight against the fulfillment of prophecy. Besides, they are not taking My life; I’m giving of Myself. No one takes My life; I lay it down of My own choice, for them and for you.”

After speaking to Peter, Jesus healed Malchus’ wound. This action is rather remarkable when you think about it. These men came to arrest Jesus, armed with swords and clubs, yet Jesus healed one of them. Even in this incredibly stressful situation, He still thought of others, putting them above Himself. Jesus deescalated the violence Peter initiated.

Jesus protected His disciples and healed Malchus’ ear. Even during His arrest, He was looking out for the welfare of both His friends and His enemies.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what are your main takeaways? What questions emerge? What parts are difficult?`

`Is it possible that we sometimes hurt people in our unguided zeal like Peter did? How have you seen God heal people’s wounds when that happens?`

`Memorize your favorite passage from Matthew 26:36–56. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`