---
title:  inVite
date:   13/08/2026
---

### Exceedingly Sorrowful

The Garden of Gethsemane provides an extraordinary window into God’s heart and the mental and spiritual suffering Jesus endured on our behalf. The disciples could see that Jesus was deeply distressed. He told them, “My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here and watch with Me” (Matt. 26:38). Jesus was not exaggerating the depth of His sorrow. He was essentially telling them, “I am dying.” The weight and magnitude of sin pressed on Him. He did not see His Father’s face smiling on Him or hear loving words of encouragement as He did at His baptism. Instead, He was receiving everything our sins deserve. “The wages [what one earns as a result of their works] of sin is death” (Rom. 6:23). This weight was so intense that He began to bleed through His sweat pores. Already, drops of blood were falling on the ground. Our sins drew the first blood from Christ’s body. The weight of sin literally pressed the life out of Jesus. His heart melted like wax (Ps. 22:14). Ironically, the word Gethsemane means “oil press.”

It’s important to note that Jesus told the disciples He was at the point of death before anyone had laid a hand on Him. No stripes on His back, no slaps to the face, no pulling of His beard, and certainly no crucifixion—yet He was already near death. If anything shows that sin is not to be taken lightly, it’s this moment. Ellen White commented on this very scene: “God suffered with His Son.… There was silence in heaven.… Could mortals have viewed the amazement of the angelic host as in silent grief they watched the Father separating His beams of light, love, and glory from His beloved Son, they would better understand how offensive in His sight is sin.”<sup>1</sup>

Jesus prayed three times that this burden might be taken from Him, and every time He made the request, your face came to His mind. He saw what would’ve happened if He didn’t go through with it, and that is what gave Him the inner strength to say, “Nevertheless, not as I will, but as You will” (Matt. 26:39). After the third prayer of wrestling and surrender, “His decision is made. He will save man at any cost to Himself.”<sup>2</sup>

At that moment, God sent an angel to strengthen Jesus (Luke 22:43). If that angel had not come, Jesus may have died right there in the Garden. Strengthened by the angel, Jesus rose and strode steadfastly toward His betrayal, His condemnation, and His crucifixion. No price was too high for our salvation. What incredible love.

**Questions to consider:**

`Read Hebrews 12:2. How did Jesus endure Gethsemane and the cross? What was the joy that Jesus anticipated?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 693.

<sup>2</sup> White, _The Desire of Ages_, 690.