---
title:  inQuire
date:   15/08/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Understanding Christ’s struggle:**

1. What kind of grief was Jesus experiencing? Matt. 26:36–39; Isa. 53:10–12
2. What level of weight must someone bear to sweat drops of blood? What do you think would’ve happened had the angel not come to strengthen Him? Luke 22:43, 44

**The disciples asleep:**

1. Why do you think Jesus confronted Peter first about falling asleep? Matt. 26:40, 41
2. Luke 22:45 says the disciples were sleeping from sorrow. What does this mean? Has this ever happened to you?

`Personal reflection: Christ’s repeated request for prayer shows personal vulnerability. How does this fit with the common view that vulnerability is weakness?`

**Arrest in the Garden:**

1. How must it have felt to be betrayed with a kiss? Why did Jesus still call Judas friend? Matt. 26:47–50
2. What was the problem with how Peter initially responded to Christ’s arrest? Matt. 26:51–54
3. Despite an initial show of valor, what did the disciples do shortly after Jesus’ arrest? Matt. 26:56

`Personal reflection: Even after all their promises, the disciples abandoned Jesus at His arrest. What does that teach us about our own lack of self-awareness at times?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Before a single hand was laid on Him, Jesus was already near death—not from physical torture but from the crushing weight of our sins, yet He chose to go forward anyway, because He saw you and believes you’re worth it.
- Jesus earnestly desired His inner circle to support Him in prayer, but while He was battling the full weight of sin and surrendering to the Father’s will, they slept and left Him to carry the burden alone.
- During His arrest, Jesus showed absolute control, compassion, and commitment to His mission. He rebuked violence, even healed one of those who came to arrest Him, and then calmly chose to go forward with laying down His life.