---
title: 'What Psalms And Proverbs Say About Mercy'
date: 20/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Psalm 9:7–9, 13–20; Psalm 82; Psalm 101; Psalm 146; Proverbs 10:4; Proverbs 13:23, 25.

> <p>Memory verse</p> 
> “Defend the poor and orphans. Protect the rights [power or special favor that the law gives to citizens] of the poor. Help those [people] who are poor and helpless. Save them from those [people] who are evil” (Psalm 82:3, 4, ERV).
 
**PSALMS AND PROVERBS** show us the experience of living with God every day. The book of Proverbs is full of wisdom. It offers advice on families, friendships, business, and government. The Psalms are songs. They are full of deep feelings and spiritual experiences about everything from sorrow to praising God. Psalms and Proverbs show us that our faith should make a difference in every part and experience of life. Why? Because God cares about every part of our lives. He cares about the way we act with others. He wants us to be fair to each other.

We live on an earth where things are not always fair. The Bible shows us again and again that God cares about all the things that are not fair. He works hard to change those things. He is the One who gives hope to people who feel hopeless.

We cannot study everything in this lesson that Psalms and Proverbs say about showing mercy and being fair. But we hope that this lesson will cause us to do more to help the poor and the needy around us. It is our job to help them.

_God gives hope to people who feel hopeless._