---
title: 'Psalms Songs Of Hope For People Hurt By Their Leaders'
date: 21/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we learned, God knows when people are in trouble. Psalms most often tells us about people who cry to God. They trust God. But they do not see God doing anything to stop the people who are not being fair. Sometimes the evil that happens in life is so bad. Then the writers of the Psalms have trouble seeing God’s power and love at all. 

What do the writers of the Psalms do when that happens? Do they stop singing about God in the Psalms? No. They keep singing. Their faith and their life stay strong. They continue to have hope. They ask God to act before it is too late. They ask God to hurry. They ask Him to step in and save the needy. They ask Him to help people who are hurt before it is too late. 

`Read Psalm 9:7–9, 13–20. David wrote this psalm. Think about the awful troubles David experienced. David believed in God’s love and care. At the same time, David knew about suffering. Have you ever had an experience that tested your faith the same way as David’s faith was tested? How did you keep your faith strong during that hard time?`

Again and again, the Psalms show us how to keep our hope in God strong during hard times. We must continue to believe that God is the Judge of everyone on earth. Evil may look as if it has won for now. But God will judge people who do evil. He will judge people who are not fair. God will punish them. But God will bless and make new the lives of His people who were hurt by evil.

C. S. Lewis wrote about his deep wish for the time to come when God will act as Judge. Many Christians are afraid of that time. But C. S. Lewis saw that time as something we should wish for. He says that it is a time “when God will finally hear the cries of thousands of people. These people lost their homes and everything they owned. Why? Because people in power stole it from them. But now God is on the side of His people. They do not fear God’s work as Judge. If God’s people can stand in front of God and tell Him their problems, they know that God will help them. Soon God will come as Judge. Then we will get that chance to tell Him everything.” —*Reflections [thoughts] on the Psalms* (New York: Harcourt, Brace and Company, 1958), page 11, adapted.

_“If God’s people can stand in front of God and tell Him their problems, they know God will help them.”_