---
title:  “DO SOMETHING, GOD!”
date:   22/07/2019
---

`Read Psalm 82. What is the message for us in this psalm?`

The Lord gave His people many laws. These laws helped God’s people to live better lives. It helped them to be examples of God’s love to other people. Sadly, God’s people failed to follow His plan. They became the same as everyone else around them. The leaders of other countries were not fair to their own people. The leaders stole from their people and hurt them. God’s people became just the same. The leaders and judges of God’s people took care of their own needs. Evil people paid these judges money to judge in their favor. The courts did not protect the people. Soon, the rich people started to use poor people to make more money. But the rich did not pay the poor people the money they earned.

Psalm 82 talks about an awful time when these things happened. This psalm shows God’s work as Judge of everyone on earth. The psalm also shows a time when God judges the leaders and judges of the people. The writer of the psalm tells us something about the people who serve as judges. In the psalm writer’s eyes, God’s work as Judge is an example of how human judges should work. God’s work as Judge also shows us the rules that we need to follow. God will use these rules to judge everyone who lived. “God has put them in power. He chose them to act as judges under Him.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets [special messengers] and Kings, page 198, adapted.

The psalm ends with the writer asking God to help (Psalm 82:8). The writer asks God to step in and stop the evil that is everywhere in the country. This psalm speaks for all people who are crushed by people in power. The writer of Psalm 82 asks God to help. God is the Judge and Ruler of everyone and everything in heaven and on earth. God makes a promise. Yes, there will be times when the courts on earth will not help the poor. They will not listen to our cries for help. But we can always cry to God.

At different times in life, we may be hurt by people in power. Other times, we may not be fair to other people. Psalm 82 helps us to find help and wisdom in both experiences. God cares about bad judges. God says they are His children too. He wants them to choose a better life. So, there is hope for us all if we allow God to change us.

_We can always cry to God for help._