---
title: 'A King S Promises'
date: 23/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 101. The writer of this psalm wrote it for leaders. What important advice can we learn from it for our own lives?`

Many people believe that David wrote Psalm 101 in the early years of the time when he was king of Israel. King David had many difficult experiences before he became king. He was a soldier for King Saul. Then he ran away from King Saul who tried to kill him many times. David saw that Saul was an awful king. David saw what happens when a king destroys his own people and his family. So, David decided to be a better leader than Saul. 

Few of us are the leaders of countries. But we all have the chance to help change the lives of other people. We can encourage people in our families, communities, in our jobs, or in our churches. Ellen G. White talks about David as a leader. “David made promises. We can read his promises in Psalm 101. Everyone who has a family should make these same promises. They should promise to protect their homes against anything that can hurt their families.” —*Counsels [advice] to Parents, Teachers, and Students*, page 119, adapted. 

We should follow the rules in Psalm 101 in our lives. Anytime we get this chance, we should ask our leaders to follow these rules to. Each of us has the chance to follow David’s rules in Psalm 101. Then we will be good leaders. Our lives will be a blessing to other people too.

How do we start learning to become good leaders? For David, it starts with honoring God for His mercy and being fair (Psalm 101:1). These two things are the foundation for everything David wanted to do as a leader. He tried to be fair and show mercy in his life and work. A good leader must say no to sin, lying, and doing wrong. All of these sins are special traps for leaders and rulers.

David knew it was very important to get good advice. So, he found honest leaders to help him do what was right. David wanted people to say that he was a fair king who showed mercy to everyone. These things were important to him. That is why he looked for leaders to work for him who were fair and showed mercy too. 

`Maybe you are not a leader. But what can you do to be fair and show mercy to the people in your life who need it?`

_David tried to be fair and show mercy in his life and work._