---
title: 'Walking With The Lord'
date: 24/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we read the end of the book of Psalms, we see that many of the psalms are songs of praise. The final five psalms (Psalm 146–150) start with the words, “Praise the Lord” (ERV). Psalm 146 praises God for a special reason. It praises God because He is kind to the poor and shows them mercy.

`Read Psalm 146. What is the message of this psalm? What is the writer of the psalm saying in Psalm 146:5–9?`

God made heaven and earth (read Psalm 146:6). Psalm 146 shows us God’s work on this earth as Judge. It shows that He gives us everything we need for life. He frees us from sin. He frees us from the people who hurt us. He heals us. He helps us. He defends the weak. 

Why should we take care of needy people? Yes, we should take care of them because God said we should. God asks us to do this work because He does this work Himself. He is not asking us to do it for Him. He is inviting us to do it with Him. When we work to stop sickness, hunger, and evil on this earth, we work with God. We join Him in His work of mercy. 

Christians want to be closer to God. Psalm 146:7–9 show us one way to be closer to Him. When we join God in His work of mercy, we will be close to Him. God lifts up the poor. He heals the sick. He shows mercy to the suffering. God helps people that leaders hurt. So, we should work with God to help Him do this work too. “Jesus came to this earth. He worked with the poor and suffering. Jesus gave them more of His attention than He gave anyone else. Today, Jesus lives in the hearts of His children. When His children visit the poor and needy, Jesus goes with His children. He helps them to take care of the poor.

“Other people’s suffering helps us understand the mercy and love of God. If we do not help people, we cannot understand God’s love and mercy. God’s love and mercy help us know that we have a loving Father in heaven. The Good News about Jesus is the most beautiful when we share it with people living in very poor countries.”—Ellen G. White, *Testimonies for the Church*, volume 7, page 226, adapted.

`How does serving other people bring us closer to God? What has been your experience?`

_God invites us to work with Him to stop sickness, hunger, and evil on this earth._