---
title:  "PROVERBS: MERCY FOR THE NEEDY"
date:   25/07/2019
---

A proverb is a wise saying. The book of Proverbs is full of many wise sayings. Proverbs talks about many different ideas and life experiences. Some of the proverbs talk about being rich or poor, being happy, and showing mercy. Proverbs shows us that life is not always simple. Our choices can change our lives.

`Read Proverbs 10:4; Proverbs 13:23, 25; Proverbs 14:31; Proverbs 15:15, 16; Proverbs 19:15, 17; and Proverbs 30:7–9. How are these proverbs the same or different? What do they tell us about being rich, poor, and helping people in need?`

Proverbs shows us that God cares for the poor and the weak. Sometimes people are poor because of bad things that happened to them in life. Sometimes they are poor because they made bad choices. Or maybe someone cheated them. Whatever mistakes they made, Proverbs tells us that the Lord is their God who made them. No one should hurt the poor or cheat them because they made mistakes.

Proverbs shows us a better life. The secret to a better life is clear. We must choose wisdom and obey God. Sometimes we get riches and money in this life. But these things do not always come from God. The most important thing in life is being loyal to God and His law. It is more important than money or riches. “It is better to be poor and do what is right than to be wealthy [rich] and be unfair [not fair]” (Proverbs 16:8, ICB). 

Proverbs also talks about being honest and fair in business. Leaders and judges must be fair too (read Proverbs 14:5, 25; Proverbs 16:11–13; Proverbs 17:15; Proverbs 20:23; Proverbs 21:28; Proverbs 28:14–16). Proverbs offers wisdom and advice about how men and women should live. It also offers advice for communities. It shows us how communities can serve and protect the people who need help the most. Proverbs asks us to remember that the best leaders ask God for help (read Proverbs 8:15, 16). We should act as God’s helpers. We should show God’s loving favor to everyone in need.

`It is easy for us to feel sorry for people who suffer. But what can we do to help them?`

_The best leaders are the ones who ask God for help (read Proverbs 8:15, 16)._