---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   26/07/2019
---

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

“Read Ellen G. White, “The Last Years of David,” pages 746–755, in Patriarchs and Prophets; C. S. Lewis, “ ‘Judgment’ in the Psalms,” pages 15–22, in Reflections on the Psalms.

“David wrote many songs in the book of Psalms. David’s songs talk about everything. He wrote songs about feeling guilty. He also wrote songs about blaming himself for his sins. His songs also talk about faith and walking with God. David’s life shows us that sin makes us feel ashamed and sad. But God’s love and mercy can touch us when we are in deep darkness and save us. Faith will heal the person who is sorry for sin. Then we will become the sons of God.”—Ellen G. White, *Patriarchs [Old Testament fathers and leaders] and Prophets [special messengers]*, page 754, adapted.

Ellen G. White also wrote about the wisdom in the book of Proverbs: “The book of Proverbs shows us many important rules. When we obey them, they make our communities strong. These rules make our religions and governments strong and happy too. The rules help us to feel safe and protected. Everything that makes our communities feel safe comes from the law of God.”—Ellen G. White, *Education*, page 137, adapted. 

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. In what ways are you a leader at work or in your community? As a leader, how can you help leaders in your community show more mercy to the poor and needy? How can you help change things around you to make life fair for other people?`

`2. Think about the laws where you live. How can you work to make these laws better to help the poor and suffering people in need who live in your community?`

`3. Why are Bible rules about being fair so important for making our communities stronger?`

`4. The book of Proverbs mostly talks about wisdom. It gives us wise advice for our daily life. But what does Proverbs tell us about what is in God’s heart and who He is?`

_God’s love and mercy can reach down into the deep darkness and save us._