---
title:  The Bible Is the Support for All Our Beliefs
date:   18/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

Mark 7:1–13; Romans 2:4; 1 John 2:15–17; 2 Corinthians 10:5, 6; John 5:46, 47.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘Tell them to put their faith in the teaching and the Law [of Moses]. If they [other people] do not speak what this word says, it is because they have no light [truth] in them’ ” (Isaiah 8:20, NLV).

EVERY CHRISTIAN CHURCH uses the Bible to support its teachings. But each church may not believe the same things about the Bible. Each church’s beliefs about the Bible and its power to guide our lives may be different. This topic is important and deep. This week, we will explore this idea by studying five different things that churches use to decide what the Bible means. These five things are: (1) tradition, or the ways things were done in the past; (2) personal experience; (3) culture, or the way of life around us; (4) reason, or our ability to think; (5) and the Bible itself.

Yes, churches use these five things to decide what the Bible means. Churches also use these five things to decide how much power the Bible has in their lives. We all read the Bible. We use it to understand God and His plan for us. We are part of the traditions and culture around us. So, the way things were done in the past and the ways of life around us have a part in the way we understand the Bible.

Which of these five things is the most important to help us to understand the Bible? What happens when a church makes one of the five things more important than the rest? A church’s answers to these questions can make its beliefs very different from other Christian churches.

_We all read the Bible. We use it to understand God and His plan for us._
