---
title:  THE WAY THINGS WERE DONE IN THE PAST
date:   19/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Tradition is the way our people have done things for a long time. Tradition itself is not bad. It helps us to remember our past. So, we should not be surprised that tradition also has an important part in religion. But there also are some dangers with tradition.

How does Jesus feel about some human traditions in His day? For the answer, read Mark 7:1–13.

The tradition in Mark 7:1–13 has been around for a long time. In Jesus’ day, this tradition was made equal to the Bible. Traditions often grow over time. Soon, they may include parts that are not part of the Bible or God’s plan. In Jesus’ day, the religious leaders in the Jewish community support and teach many human traditions. (Read Mark 7:3, 5.) But human traditions are not equal to God’s commandments (read Mark 7:8, 9). “ ‘You make the word of God useless by putting your own teachings in its place’ ” (Mark 7:13, NIrV).

`Read 1 Corinthians 11:2 and 2 Thessalonians 3:6. How do we know what is Bible truth and what is human tradition? Why is it so important for us to know how they are different?`

The Bible fills us with love and respect for God’s truth. This love and respect can become part of a tradition. It is important that our traditions stay true to the living God. He shows His plan for us in the Bible. So, the Bible is more important than human traditions, even good ones. Traditions that grow out of our experience with God and the Bible are good. But we need to make sure that they always match what the Bible says.

_Traditions that grow out of our experience with God and the Bible are good. But we need to make sure that they always agree with the Bible._
