---
title:  EXPERIENCE
date:   20/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Romans 2:4 and Titus 3:4, 5. The Bible says that God is love. How do we get to know this love? God also is good, patient, forgiving, and kind. How do we learn these things about Him too? Why is it important that our faith be more than an idea? Why must our faith be a real experience? At the same time, in what ways can our experience disagree with the Bible and even lead us away from God?`

Experience is part of life. Experience can change our feelings and thoughts in a powerful way. Our experiences in life can change how we feel about God and other people. God made us special in that way.

God wants us to feel close to the people that He brings into our lives. God also wants us to see the beauty in art, music, and nature. God wants us to feel the joy that comes from knowing Him as our Savior. He wants us to trust in the power of His Bible promises to us. Our religion and faith are more than just teachings and decisions. Our faith also is experience. Experience can change the way we think about God and how we understand the Bible. But we also need to see that our experience has limits. Experience cannot help us fully to know or understand God’s plan for our lives.

`What warning do you see in 2 Corinthians 11:1–3? What does this warning tell us about why we cannot always trust our experiences to show us the truth?`

Experience can trick us. Our feelings can lie. So, we need to check our experience with the Bible. Sometimes we may want to do something that the Bible says is wrong. That is when we need to trust the Bible more than our experience and what we want to do. We should always be careful. We must make sure that our experience agrees with the Bible. What we want must never go against Bible teachings.

Our faith includes love for God and love for other people (read Mark 12:28–31). These commandments show us that our experience in life is important. But why must our experience always agree with Bible truth?

_God wants us to feel the joy that comes from knowing Him as our Savior._
