---
title:  THE WAYS OF LIFE AROUND US
date:   21/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

We all belong to a culture or way of life. Culture is a part of our everyday life. We cannot escape from culture. Look at how much of the Old Testament is the story about God’s people becoming spoiled or sinning because of the culture around them. What makes us think that things are different with us today?

The Bible comes to us from the Jewish culture. That does not mean that Bible truth or its meaning is limited only to the Jews or Jewish culture. We also need to know that our culture can change the way we understand the Bible. But we must remember, too, that the Bible has power over race groups, where we were born, and who we are in life. The Bible is above any human culture. The Bible even can be used to correct the sins in every culture.

`Read 1 John 2:15–17. What does John mean when he says that we should not love the things on this earth? How can we live here and, at the same time, stay loyal to God?`

Culture is ruined by sin. So, culture often does not agree with Bible truth. Yes, some parts of our culture might agree with our faith. But we always must be careful to know when culture and faith disagree. Our faith should cause us and other people to question wrong practices and beliefs in our cultures. If necessary, our faith should cause us to make a new culture, or way of life, that is loyal to the Bible. So, we need to stay strong in the Lord. If not, we will give in to the culture around us.

Ellen G. White writes: “Jesus’ followers must be separate from this earth’s practices and ways of life. At the same time, God’s people must not separate from the people on this earth. Jesus always spent time with people. Jesus did not encourage them to do anything that went against God’s plan. No, Jesus spent time with people to improve them and lead them to God.”—Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students Regarding Christian Education, page 323, adapted.

`What parts of your culture go fully against Bible truth and your faith? How do you stand firm against these wrong practices and ways of life?`

_Our faith should cause us to question wrong practices and beliefs in our culture._
