---
title:  REASON
date:   22/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read 2 Corinthians 10:5, 6; Proverbs 1:7; and Proverbs 9:10. Why is it so important to obey Jesus in our thoughts? Why does wisdom start with obeying the Lord?`

God gave us the skill to think and to understand. Everything we do and all our Bible teachings show that we have the power to think. After the 1700s, people gave the human brain more power than God meant for it to have. The human brain has limits. It cannot help us to understand everything. Our powers of reason also cannot answer all our questions or solve all our problems.

Some people believe that human reason is the foundation for all knowledge. They believe that only human reason can help us to understand all truth. They also believe that only human reason has the power to decide what is right and wrong. They give human reason more power than the Bible. During the 1700s, people threw out anything that they could not explain by reason. They doubted anything they could not explain. So, they changed how they felt and thought about the Bible. They stopped believing in the Bible’s miracles. They did not believe Jesus woke up from the dead in a real body. They stopped believing that the Holy Spirit put Jesus as a baby inside of Mary’s body. These thinkers also stopped believing that God made the earth in six days. They no longer trusted Bible truth.

Remember, sin has weakened our reason. So, we need to let Jesus control our minds. We do not understand things the way we should. Our hearts have turned away from God (Ephesians 4:18). So, we need the Bible to heal our minds and give us understanding. God made us. He gave us the power to reason and to think. So, that should tell us that our understanding is not something that works apart from God. “If you want to become wise, you must begin by respecting the Lord” (Proverbs 9:10, NIrV; read also Proverbs 1:7). When we accept and obey the Bible, we can reason correctly.

`A few hundred years ago, American President Thomas Jefferson made his own copy of the New Testament. He cut out everything that he thought was false. He got rid of Jesus’ miracles and the truth about His waking up from the dead. What does President Jefferson’s “Bible” teach us about the limits of human thinking? Why can it not help us to understand all truth?`

_We need the Bible to heal our minds and give us understanding._
