---
title:  THE BIBLE
date:   23/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The Holy Spirit led humans to write God’s Word, the Bible. So, we can trust the Bible as a guide for our lives. The Holy Spirit will never lead us to believe anything that goes against God’s Word. The Spirit also will never lead us away from God’s Word. For Seventh-day Adventists, the Bible has more power than human tradition, or the way things have been done for a long time. For us, the Bible also has more power than experience, reason, and culture, or the ways of life around us. Only the Bible is the test for everything in life. It helps us decide what is good and right.

`Read John 5:46, 47 and John 7:38. For Jesus, where do the answers to all spiritual questions come from? How does the Bible show that Jesus is the true Savior?`

Some people say that the Holy Spirit has given them special messages and truth. But their messages go against Bible truth. These people give the “Holy Spirit” more power than the Bible. When we go against God’s Word, the Bible, and clear teachings, we are in danger. The Holy Spirit will never lead us away from Bible truth. The Bible is our spiritual shield. Only it can be trusted to show us what to believe and to do.

“The Holy Spirit uses the Bible to show us truth. In this way, the Holy Spirit shows us what is wrong and helps us to remove it from our hearts. The Holy Spirit is the Spirit of truth. Christ works in us by His Spirit to help His chosen people to give their lives to Him.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 671, adapted.

We should not think that the Holy Spirit replaces the Bible. No, the Holy Spirit works with the Bible to bring us to Jesus. The Bible teaches us truth (read 1 Timothy 4:6). So, we can trust God’s Word and accept it fully. It is not our job to judge the Bible. But God’s Word has the power to judge us and our thinking. The Bible has this power because it is the Written Word of God.

`Why is the Bible a safe guide? How can it help us to answer spiritual questions better than our own thoughts and feelings can? What danger will we be in if we do not accept the Bible as the rule and test for all teachings and experience?`

_The Bible is our spiritual shield._
