---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   24/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Read Ellen G. White, “The Scriptures a Safeguard,” pages 593–602, in The Great Controversy.

Tradition is the way things have been done for a long time. Tradition often has a big part in how we think about and understand the Bible. So do experience, reason, and culture, or the ways of life around us. The important question we must ask ourselves is: Which of these things has final say in what we believe? It is one thing to say that the Bible has value. We need to do that. But we also must allow the Bible to change our lives with the Holy Spirit’s help.

Culture, experience, reason, and tradition are not bad. But they become problems when they go against the clear teachings of the Bible. What is worse is when we make these things more important than the Bible. When we look at Old Testament and New Testament history, we see that bad things happened to God’s people when they made human ideas more important than God’s teachings.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. God commands us to love Him with all our heart, spirit, and mind (Matthew 22:37–40). We also must love our neighbors. Why is it easier, at times, to follow some human traditions than to follow God’s law?`

`2. How much power should tradition have in our church? What are the blessings that come from our following tradition? What are the problems?`

`3. How can we, as a church, make sure that tradition does not become more important than the Bible? Also, how can we make sure that tradition does not have the final say in our decisions as Christians?`

`4. What if someone said that God talked to him or her in a dream and said that Sunday was the true day of rest. How will you answer this person? What does this story teach us about experience? Why does experience need to agree with the Bible?`

`5. Talk about the culture you live in. How does culture make your faith better? How does culture make your faith worse? What examples can we see from history of how culture hurt the church? What can we learn from our mistakes in the past so that we do not make the same mistakes today?`

_We must allow the Bible to change our lives with the Holy Spirit’s help._
