---
title: God Shows the Future
date: 1/11/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON:**

Daniel 2:1–16; Daniel 2:17–23; Daniel 2:24–30; Daniel 2:31–49.

> **MEMORY VERSE:** <p></p>
> “Daniel said: ‘Praise God forever and ever. He has wisdom and power’ ” (Daniel 2:20, ICB).

IN THE WATERS AROUND GREENLAND, there are icebergs. Icebergs are big pieces of ice. They float in the sea. The icebergs are many different sizes. Sometimes the icebergs float in different directions at the same time. Small icebergs move in one direction. Bigger icebergs flow in another direction. How can that happen? What happens is that winds push the small ice chunks in one direction. The water moves the big ice chunks in another direction. How icebergs move is a word picture for the governments on this earth. It shows us how kingdoms start and end in human history. The winds that move the icebergs along are a word picture too. The winds show us human power and everything that changes. The power of the water also is an example of God’s power. It shows us the way God moves in human history. Ellen G. White says, “The stars travel in special circles in outer space. God’s plans are the same as stars. God does not rush or hurry His plans. He does not delay what He says He will do. His promises happen right on time.”—The Desire of Ages, page 32, adapted. Kingdoms rise to power, then fall. Everything in history looks as if it happens because of human power. But Daniel 2 shows us that God controls human history. He moves human history to its final end.

God’s “promises happen right on time.”
