---
title:  The Power And Glory Of God
date:   12/01/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the dream that the Lord gives to King Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel 2:1–16. What danger are Daniel and his friends in because of this dream?`

In Bible times, people believe that dreams are important. Some dreams warn about dark times to come. So, we can see why King Nebuchadnezzar is upset. What is worse, he cannot remember his dream at all. Babylonian wise men believe that the gods can explain dreams to humans. But the wise men need the king to tell them his dream first. Then they can explain the dream. But the king asks the wise men to do something that is too hard for them to do. He wants them to explain a dream that he cannot remember! The wise men answer, “ ‘Only the gods could [can] tell the king his dream and what it means. But the gods don’t [do not] live with people’ ” (Daniel 2:11, ERV).

The king is mad at the wise men. He orders Arioch, his captain, to kill all the wise men in Babylon. Sadly, angry kings often behave this way in Bible times. Darius the First kills all the wise men in Persia when he learns about their plan against him. The Persian King Xerxes kills all his engineers. Why? They build a bridge that breaks. So, Nebuchadnezzar orders the wise men to be killed around the time that Daniel and his friends finish school. The king gives Daniel and his friends jobs as wise men in his palace at this time. So, Daniel and his friends will be killed too. The Bible language shows us something interesting. The killing starts right away. Daniel and his friends will be killed next. But Daniel “spoke with wisdom and skill” (Daniel 2:14, ICB) to Arioch. Arioch helps Daniel. Then Daniel asks the king to give him time to solve the dream. The king gives Daniel time. Do you see that the king does not give the magicians more time? The king does not trust them. But he trusts Daniel. Daniel agrees with the magicians about one thing. No human can solve this mystery. But Daniel knows the God in heaven who can.

Daniel asks the king to give him time to solve the dream.
