---
title: Daniel’S Two Prayers
date: 1/6/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The king gives Daniel time to explain the dream. What is the first thing Daniel does after he talks to the king? He tells his friends what will happen if God does not help them. They will die. So, Daniel and his friends pray. They ask God for help. We should pray whenever we have a big problem. God is strong. He can solve all our problems.

`Read about the two prayers in Daniel 2:17–23. What two prayers do Daniel and his friends pray?`

Daniel 2 talks about two prayers. In the first prayer, Daniel asks God to show him the dream and to explain it (Daniel 2:17–19). Daniel does not write down this prayer. But the Bible tells us what Daniel asks his friends to pray. “He asked them to pray that the God of heaven would [will] give him mercy. He wanted God to help him understand the mystery of the king’s dream. Then he and his friends wouldn’t [will not] be killed along with Babylon’s other wise men” (Daniel 2:18, NIrV). Daniel and his friends pray. God answers their prayers. God shows Daniel the dream and explains it. We can trust that God will answer our prayers too. He will “give [us] mercy” when we ask Him (Daniel 2:18, NIrV). The God of Daniel is our God too.

Daniel and his friends are so happy. They pray another prayer. In this prayer, they thank God for His wisdom. They thank God for being in control of history and governments. There is an important lesson here for us. We ask God for many things. But do we also remember to praise God for answering our prayers? Remember the story about Jesus and the 10 lepers? Lepers are people with skin diseases. Jesus heals 10 lepers. But only one leper comes back “to give glory to God” (Luke 17:18, KJV). Their story shows us something sad about humans. We often do not remember to thank God for the many gifts and blessings He gives us. Daniel’s prayer helps us remember to thank God and praise Him for His gifts. Daniel’s prayer also shows us what he thinks about God. Daniel believes God loves him. God wants the best for Daniel. When we pray to God, we can trust God to do what is best for us too. So, we always should praise and thank God.

We should pray whenever we have a big problem. God is strong. He can solve all our problems.
