---
title: "The Statue: Part 1"
date: 1/14/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`What does Daniel say in Daniel 2:24–30? Why are his words important for us to remember? (Read also John 15:5.)`

God answers the prayer of Daniel and his friends. God tells them the dream and explains it. Then Daniel tells the king. Do you see that Daniel praises God to the king? Daniel says that God gave him the answers. Daniel also reports something else. He tells the king what is in the king’s own heart about the dream. Only God can know our secret thoughts and feelings. So, this information helps the king to trust Daniel’s message even more. The king sees that only God in heaven can show someone secret things. But the dream is not very good news for the king. So, Daniel takes a big risk when he tells the king the truth.

`Read about the king’s dream in Daniel 2:31–49. How does the dream say that Nebuchadnezzar’s kingdom will end?`

The dream is about a statue. Its head is made from “ ‘gold. Its chest and the arms were made from silver. The belly and upper part of the legs were made from bronze [brass]. The lower part of the legs was made from iron. Its feet were made partly of [part from] iron and partly of [part from] clay” (Daniel 2:32, 33, ERV). The whole statue is broken to pieces. Then Daniel explains the different metals. He says that each metal is a different kingdom in future history. Each kingdom will replace the kingdom before it. The message is clear: Babylon will end. It will be replaced by another kingdom. That kingdom also will be replaced with another kingdom. God will replace all these kingdoms on earth with His kingdom. God’s kingdom alone will last forever.

`Look at how nothing on this earth lasts forever. What does this idea teach us about the hope we have in Jesus? (For the answer, read John 6:54 and 2 Corinthians 4:18.)`

God’s kingdom alone will last forever.
