---
title: "The Statue: Part 2"
date: 1/8/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read again the dream and how Daniel explains it (Daniel 2:31–49). What do Daniel’s words show us about God? How much does God know about the future?`

Daniel 2 helps us understand the information in Daniel 7, 8, and 11. Daniel 2 is an end-time prophecy, or special message. It shows us what will happen in the future.

The gold head is a word picture for Babylon (626 b.c.–539 b.c.). No other metal can better show Babylon’s power and riches. The Bible names Babylon “the golden city” (Isaiah 14:4, KJV). The Bible uses another fancy word picture to show us Babylon: “Babylon was like [the same as] a golden cup in the Lord’s hand” (Jeremiah 51:7, ERV; also read Revelation 18:16). The history writer Herodotus tells us that the city of Babylon was covered in much gold.

The silver chest and arms are a word picture for the kingdom of Media-Persia (539 b.c.–331 b.c.). Silver is not worth as much as gold. In the same way, the kingdom of Media-Persia did not match the glory of Babylon. Silver is a good symbol for Persia. The Persians paid taxes in silver.

The brass belly and upper legs are a word picture for Greece (331 b.c.–168 b.c.). Ezekiel 27:13 says the Greeks traded objects made from bronze. The helmets, shields, and axes of Greek soldiers were made from brass too. Herodotus tells us what Psammetichus the 1st said when he saw Greek sea robbers or pirates. Psammetichus the 1st was a king of Egypt. He said that the Greek pirates were the ones Egypt had been warned about. A special messenger had named these robbers the “brass men coming from the sea.”

The iron legs show us Rome (168 b.c.–a.d. 476). As Daniel explains, the iron shows the power of the kingdom of Rome. This kingdom lasts longer than any kingdom before it. Iron is a perfect metal to show us how Rome acts. It crushes, or destroys, anything that stands against it.

The feet, part iron and part clay, show us the many countries of Europe after the kingdom of Rome broke apart (a.d. 476–Second Coming of Jesus). Many kings have tried to unite Europe under one power. But nothing has ever worked. Daniel shows us that Europe will stay separate countries until God sets up His everlasting kingdom.

The feet are part iron and part clay. They show us a divided Europe after the kingdom of Rome breaks apart. Europe will stay this way until God sets up His kingdom.
