---
title:  The Stone
date:   16/1/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 2:34, 35, 44, 45. What do these verses teach us about this earth? How will human history end?`

The dream tells us the things that will happen in the end times (Daniel 2:28). The metal (and clay) kingdoms are powerful and rich. But they are nothing compared to the stone kingdom. The metals and the clay are word pictures for human kingdoms. But the stone in the dream is not made by human hands. The dream shows us that the stone kingdom will continue forever. The stone is a word picture for God (read Deuteronomy 32:4; 1 Samuel 2:2; Psalm 18:31). The stone also is a word picture for Jesus (Psalm 118:22; 1 Peter 2:4, 7). So, the stone is the best word picture for God’s everlasting kingdom.

Some Bible teachers argue that Jesus starts His stone kingdom during His work on earth. Later, Jesus’ followers share the Good News about Jesus everywhere. So, some Bible experts think that the worldwide stone kingdom starts when Jesus’ followers first share the Good News. But the stone kingdom starts only after the end of the four metal kingdoms and the separate kingdoms in Europe. So, the stone kingdom cannot start during Jesus’ time because the kingdom of Rome is in power.

In the dream the stone, or rock, hits the statue. “ ‘Then the rock that hit the statue became a very large mountain and filled up the whole earth’ ” (Daniel 2:35, ERV). What does this mountain show us? It is a word picture for Mount Zion. Mount Zion is the place where God’s temple stood in Old Testament times. Mount Zion is a symbol of God’s kingdom on earth during Old Testament times too. Do you see that the stone is cut from the mountain first? Then the stone becomes a mountain! This mountain is a real place in heaven. We believe it is a word picture for God’s sanctuary. God’s sanctuary is the place where Jesus works right now to save us from sin. Another name for God’s sanctuary in heaven is Zion. Jesus will leave the sanctuary in heaven soon. Then He will come to this earth. He will start His kingdom that continues forever. First, He will take His people to live with Him in heaven. Then after 1,000 years, Jesus will bring the holy city, the New Jerusalem, down to earth from heaven (Revelation 21:1–22:5).

Daniel 2 has been true so far. So, why should we trust what it says about the final kingdom too?

Jesus will leave the sanctuary in heaven soon. Then He will come to this earth.
