---
title: Additional Thought
date: 1/17/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:**

As we saw, the statue in Daniel 2 is made from gold and silver. These metals show us the riches of Babylon and Media-Persia. The statue also is made from brass and iron. The Greeks used brass and the Romans used iron. They used these metals to make tools, weapons, and pots. The Greeks and Romans made very beautiful pots. They used the pots in their everyday life. But the artists who made the pots had a lot of skill. They often drew pictures on the pots that were lovely. The pictures showed their beliefs and their ideas about life. So, the statue in Daniel 2 is a wonderful example of all the art, beauty, and power of the kingdoms in Bible times. The different parts of the statue also show us the different kingdoms that will control the earth until Jesus comes. The feet of the statue show us a picture of Europe in the end times. Then we see the stone. It is not made by “human hands” (Daniel 2:45, NIrV). The stone is a powerful word picture. It helps us understand something important. God will end this earth’s history, with all its human glory.

“To human eyes, history may look as if it is one big mess. . . . But Daniel shows us that God stands behind everything we see. God looks down from heaven on all that happens on this earth. He moves in the hearts and minds of leaders. He causes things to happen. He does what is best.”—William H. Shea, Daniel: A Reader’s Guide (Nampa, ID: Pacific Press® Publishing Association, 2005), page 98, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:**

`1. It is good to know that God is in control of everything that happens on earth. There is so much suffering in life. But God will end it all! Until that happens, what can we do to help stop the suffering we see around us?`

`2. King Nebuchadnezzar caused so much pain to God’s people. So, why do you think Daniel worked so closely with this king and was loyal to him?`

`3. The stone in Daniel 2 shows that Jesus’ kingdom will fill the whole earth. That can happen only after the Second Coming. Why, then, is the Second Coming the only way to understand what the stone does in the end times?`

The different metals of the statue show us the different kingdoms that will control the earth at different times in history until Jesus comes.
