---
title: From Hot Oven to Palace
date: 1/11/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON:**

Daniel 3:1–15; Revelation 13:11–18; Exodus 20:3–6; Daniel 3:19–27.

> **MEMORY VERSE:** <p></p>
> “‘If you throw us into the hot furnace [oven], the God we serve can save us. And if he wants to, he can save us from your power’” (Daniel 3:17, ERV).

“WITH THESE WORDS [Daniel 3:17], Daniel’s three friends show their faith to the whole kingdom of Babylon. These three young men show that the God they worship is the only true and living God. Their strong stand for God shows their beliefs. These three young men show their love for God. They show their obedience. They show they are willing to die for God. Their faith is a living example. It is the only way to show the Babylonian people the power of the living God. Daniel’s three friends show that God is the only One who is worthy of honor and worship. These three young men show the Babylonians that nothing can cause them to bow down and worship the statue. This story has many precious lessons for us in the last days.”—Ellen G. White, In Heavenly Places, page 149, adapted.

At the end of time, we, too, will need to take a stand for our faith. The Bible shows us that Christians everywhere will have the same test of worship. Our lives will be in danger the same as Daniel’s three friends were. So, we need to study Daniel 3. It shows us the experience we will have in the end times.

The three young men show the Babylonians that nothing can make them bow down and worship the statue.
