---
title:  The Gold Statue
date:   19/1/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the gold statue in Daniel 3:1–7. What causes the king to make this statue?`

As we saw, King Nebuchadnezzar dreams about a statue. Later, he builds a giant statue. It is gold from head to foot. Why does the king build the statue? Maybe he does not want his kingdom to end. The king is not happy with being only the head of gold. He wants his kingdom to continue forever. So, he makes the whole statue gold. That shows his people that his kingdom will never end.

The king is filled with pride. This pride helps us remember the builders of the Tower of Babel. Those men dare to challenge God’s power by building a tower that tries to reach heaven. Nebuchadnezzar is as bad as those builders. He does not like the idea that his kingdom will end. So, he builds a gold statue to show his power. The statue also is a test for his people. It will show the king who is loyal to him and who is not.

We must remember that Nebuchadnezzar has two chances already to know the true God. (1) He examines Daniel and his friends after they finish their training. The king sees that these four young men are ten times smarter than all the wise men in Babylon. (2) Daniel shows the king his dream and explains it. Daniel also reports to the king the thoughts of his mind. The king sees that Daniel’s God is more powerful than any god in Babylon. But then the king goes right back to worshiping statues of false gods. Why? Pride. Humans are sinners. As sinners, we have a hard time accepting we are wrong. We do not want to believe the works of our hands and minds will not continue forever. At times, we may behave the same as Nebuchadnezzar. We give too much attention to the things we do. We do not remember that our works are nothing next to God’s royal power and glory.

Nebuchadnezzar fell into the trap of pride. What can we do to keep ourselves from falling into this same trap?

The king builds a giant statue. He makes the whole statue gold. The king does this to show everyone that his kingdom will never end.
