---
title: The King’S Command To Worship
date: 1/20/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Compare what happens in Daniel 3:8–15 with what happens in Revelation 13:11–18. What happens in Daniel’s time that also will happen in the future in the end times?`

The gold statue stands on the plain of Dura. In the Akkadian language, Dura means “a place with a wall around it.” This name helps us to see that the gold statue stands in a place that is the same as a sanctuary. A sanctuary is a holy place where a god is worshiped. Most sanctuaries in Bible times have altars where offerings were burned in honor of a god. On the plain of Dura, there is a hot oven nearby. That oven is the same as an altar. Babylonian music also is part of this worship experience.

Today, we feel pressure to try new ways of worship or to accept new ideas about God. People want us to throw away our belief in God’s power and the Bible. The way of life around us is very strong. But we should remember that we must stay loyal to God. “Why? Because He made us.”

We live in the last days of earth’s history. Revelation 13 announces that the people on this earth will try to force everyone to worship the wild sea-animal power and its statue. This statue is a false god. The false god is a sign of the wild sea animal’s power. The wild sea-animal power gets help from the wild land-animal power. The wild land-animal power will force “all people, small [not very important] and great [mighty], rich and poor, free and slave, to have a mark put on their right hand or on their forehead” (Revelation 13:16, ERV).

Do you see in Revelation 13 that six groups of people worship the statue of the wild sea-animal? They are (1) people no one thinks are important. (2) Mighty people. (3) Rich and (4) poor people. And (5) free people and (6) slaves. The wild sea animal’s number is 666. Daniel 3:1 shows us that Nebuchadnezzar made his statue 60 cubits tall and 6 cubits wide. That equals 90 feet tall and 9 feet wide. Nebuchadnezzar’s gold statue is a word picture. It shows what end-time Babylon will do in the last days. So, we should pay close attention to what happens in this story. It shows us that God controls the things that happen on this earth.

People want us to throw away our belief in God’s power and the Bible.
