---
title: The Test Of Fire
date: 1/21/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Daniel’s three friends have jobs in the king’s palace. They are loyal to the king. They also are loyal to God. Their loyalty to God puts a limit on their loyalty to humans. The three young men are willing to serve the king. But they cannot worship the king’s statue.

`What helps these three young men to stand strong for God? Read Exodus 20:3–6 and Deuteronomy 6:4 for the answer.`

King Nebuchadnezzar orders all the people to worship the statue. The king orders everyone to bow down to the statue when they hear the music start. But Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego do not bow down. They are the only three persons who dare to disobey the king. Right away some Babylonian men tell the king. They want the king to get very mad at Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. So, they say three things: (1) They blame the king for putting these three young men in charge of Babylon. (2) These Jewish men do not worship the king’s gods. (3) The three young men do not worship the king’s gold statue (Daniel 3:12). Then the king gets very mad. But he gives the three young men a second chance to worship the gold statue. If they refuse, the king’s men will throw Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego into the hot oven. The king’s heart is filled with pride. He brags about how powerful he is. He says, “ ‘And what god is able to save you from my hands?’ ” (Daniel 3:15, NLV).

God makes the three young men strong. He fills their hearts with courage. They tell the king: “ ‘If you throw us into the hot furnace [oven], the God we serve can save us. And if he wants to, he can save us from your power. But even if God does not save us, we want you to know, King, that we refuse to serve your gods. We will not worship the gold idol [statue] you have set up’ ” (Daniel 3:17, 18, ERV).

`Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego know that God can save them from the hot oven. True, they do not know if He will. But they refuse to obey the king’s order. Where does their strong faith come from? How can we get it too?`

Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego do not bow down.
