---
title:  The 4th Man
date:   22/01/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 3:19–27. What happens in these verses? Who is the other Person in the fire?`

Nebuchadnezzar throws Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego into the fire. But Nebuchadnezzar is confused by something. He sees a 4th Person inside the hot oven! The king says the 4th Person looks the same as “the Son of God” (Daniel 3:25, KJV).

The king cannot say much more than that. But we do know that the 4th Person is Jesus. This same Jesus appears to Abraham before God destroys Sodom and Gomorrah. This same Jesus wrestled, or “fought” (Genesis 32:24, ERV), with Jacob next to the Jabbok Stream. This same Jesus shows Himself to Moses in a burning bush. The 4th Person in the hot oven shows us Jesus before He came to this earth as a human. Jesus stands in the hot oven to show us that God stands with His people in their troubles.

Ellen G. White says, “But the Lord does not forget His own servants. They are His witnesses. The king’s men throw them into the hot oven. Then the Savior shows Himself to Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in person. Together, they walk around in the fire. Jesus is the Lord of heat and cold. When Jesus steps into the fire, the flames cannot hurt the three young men.”—Prophets and Kings, pages 508, 509, adapted.

God says, “ ‘When you have troubles, I am with you. When you cross rivers, you will not be hurt. When you walk through [in the middle of] fire, you will not be burned; the flames will not hurt you’ ” (Isaiah 43:2, ERV). This story is wonderful. It is easy to see why many people love it so much. Sadly, not everyone has the same experience. Sometimes people die for their faith. Bible history shows us examples of loyal Christians. These believers suffered awful things for their faith. God did not work a special miracle to save them. Many of them died for their faith. In Daniel 3, God works a special miracle to save Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. But that does not always happen.

`What can all of God’s people expect Him to save them from? For the answer, read 1 Corinthians 15:12–26.`

“When Jesus steps into the fire, the flames cannot hurt the three young men.”
