---
title: The Secret To Our Having Strong Faith
date: 1/16/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Think some more about the faith of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. We may ask ourselves, “How can we have a faith as strong as theirs? What is the secret to having this faith?” Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego refuse to worship the gold statue. They are willing to be burned alive. Think about all the good reasons they can give for bowing down to the statue. But they do not. They stand firm for their faith.

`Read Hebrews 11. What does this chapter teach us about faith? What is real faith?`

Do you want to have strong faith? Then the first thing you need to do is ask: What is faith? Some people believe that faith is the answers to prayer they get from God. They go to the store and pray for a parking space. If they get a space, then they believe that they have strong faith. But what if they get to the store and there is nowhere to park? God does not answer their prayer. So, they may think their faith is weak. This understanding about faith is dangerous. It tries to force God to do what we want. It does not trust in God’s wisdom and power to choose what is best for us.

Daniel’s friends show us true faith. They know God. They are close to Him. Their closeness to God helps them to trust God fully. Faith does not try to force God to do what we want. As we saw, Daniel’s three friends do not know exactly what God will do to help them. But they decide to do the right thing, even if they will die. Their example shows us real faith. Yes, we show real faith when we pray to the Lord for the things we want. But then we also must trust Him to do what is best for us. We may not always understand what happens or why. But we trust God anyway at all times. That is real faith.

`What are ways we can show faith day by day, even in “little things”? How can doing these little things help our faith grow big and strong? How will these things help make us ready for bigger problems in the future? Why are the tests about the “little things” the most important tests?`

Daniel’s three friends decide to do the right thing, even if they will die.
