---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   24/01/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

“We can learn important lessons from the three Hebrew young men on the plain of Dura. In our time, many of God’s servants will suffer for their faith. People will hurt them. These people have evil hearts. They are filled with a wrong spirit against God’s servants. Satan controls these people. They will hurt God’s people for their faith. Most of all, these people will be angry at anyone who keeps the true Sabbath. At last, these evil people will make a law. The law will say that anyone on earth who keeps the Sabbath will be killed.

“At that time, God’s people will need to have faith that does not fail. God’s children clearly must show everyone that God is the only One they worship. God’s children must show that they will have nothing to do with false worship. No human law or command is more powerful than God’s Word. [God’s Word is the Bible.] It is everlasting. God’s loyal people will obey His law, even if people throw them in prison or try to kill them.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 512, 513, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Read 1 Peter 1:3–9. Why does God save some people from trouble and not other people? Will we really be able to answer this question in this life? Why must we continue to trust God’s love, even if He will not work a miracle to save us?`

`2. What if the story about the hot oven had a different ending? What if the three young Hebrew men died? What lesson can we still learn anyway?`

`3. Think about the most important question we must answer in the end times: Who will we worship? What does the answer to this question show us about the Sabbath? How important is the Sabbath?`

`4. Read Jesus’ words in Luke 16:10. How do Jesus’ words help us understand how we can live by faith?`

`5. Nebuchadnezzar says to Daniel’s friends: “ ‘And what god is able to save you from my hands?’ ” (Daniel 3:15, NLV). How will you answer?`

“No human law or command is more powerful than God’s Word.”
