---
title:  The Seven Locks or Seals
date:   26/01/2019
---

_The locks show us the victory and power that Jesus gives us over sin._

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Revelation 6:1–8; Matthew 24:1–14; Revelation 6:9, 10, 12–14; 2 Thessalonians 1:7–10.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “ ‘It is right for You to take the book and break its locks. It is because You were killed. Your blood has bought men for God from every family and from every language and from every kind [group] of people and from every nation” (Revelation 5:9, NLV).

**LAST WEEK**, we saw Jesus take the locked book. When Jesus takes the book, it is a sign. It shows us that Jesus gave back to humans everything that Adam lost when he sinned. Jesus’ death for us allows Him to open the locks on the book. When Jesus opens the 1st lock, we see that He is ready to finish God’s work to save humans. The 1st open lock also shows us that Jesus’ followers must start preaching the Good News. They will continue to preach the Good News until Jesus opens the 7th lock, the last lock on the book. After Jesus opens the 7th lock, history on earth ends.

Revelation 3:21 helps us understand what the seven locks mean. The locks show us the victory and power that Jesus gives us over sin. Revelation 4 and 5 tell us that Jesus won the war against sin for us on the cross. So, He is worthy to open the locks on the book. The last verse of chapter 7 talks about God’s people in front of Jesus’ throne **after** they win the war against sin and God’s enemies. Chapter 6 talks about God’s **people** before they win the war. Chapter 6 also shows us the things that God’s people must fight against so that they can win the war and be leaders with Jesus.