---
title:  Jesus Opens The 1st Lock Or Seal
date:   27/01/2019
---

The first seal shows us a special time in history when God’s people first started to preach the Good News.

`Revelation 6:1–8 show us Jesus opening the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th locks on the scroll. A scroll is a rolled­up piece of writing paper. Long ago, people used “seals,” or hot wax, to lock a scroll. Now look at what Moses writes in Leviticus 26:21–26 and what Jesus says in Matthew 24:1–14. What do their words teach us about the seals, or locks, in Revelation and what they mean?`

If we want to understand the seven seals, we must first understand the curses in the Old Testament Covenant. The Covenant was God’s Special Agreement with His people. God’s Agreement warns us that He will use four awful things to punish His people when they do what is wrong: (1) wild animals, (2) war, (3) disease, and (4) hunger. God uses these four punishments to help His people understand how much they need Him. These punishments help us under- stand the four horsemen in Revelation 6. God uses the four horsemen to help His people stay “awake” while they wait for Jesus to come back. In Matthew 24:4–14, Jesus explains what will happen on earth before He comes back. The 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th seals show us many of the same things Jesus talked about. God uses the four horsemen to help His people remember that this earth is not their home.

The 1st rider in Revelation 6:1, 2 holds a bow. He also wears a crown. In Revelation 6:2, the Greek word for the 1st rider’s crown is “stephanos [ste’-fä-nos].” It is the crown that God gives to His people who win the war against sin (Revelation 2:10; Revelation 3:11). The rider in Revelation 6:2 is a warrior who cannot lose. As he rides into war, he defeats his enemies. The 1st seal shows us a special time in history when God’s people first started to preach the Good News. Jesus’ kingdom grew. Today, God’s people must share the Good News in many more places before Jesus comes back.

The things that happen in the 1st seal match God’s mes- sage to the church in Ephesus and what happened during that time. Remember, Ephesus was a real church. But also it is a word picture for the time in history when God’s people shared the Good News with people all over the earth in a very short time (Colossians 1:23).

`When we are on Jesus’ side in the war against evil, we are always on the winning side. Why is it important to remember that truth when times get hard?`