---
title:  Jesus Opens The 2nd And 3rd Locks
date:   28/01/2019
---

_The red horse and rider show us the war that Jesus fights against Satan._

`Revelation 6:3, 4 show us the red horse and its rider and the work God gave this rider to do. Remember, the four horses and their riders are word pictures.They tell us about Christian history from the time when Jesus woke up from the dead until His Second Coming. What do the word pictures of the red horse and its rider tell us about Jesus’ followers and their work to share the Good News?`

Look what happens when Jesus opens the 2nd lock or seal: the rider on the red horse ends peace on the earth. With no peace, people try to kill each other. What causes peace to end? War. The red horse and rider show us the war that Jesus fights against Satan. The rider does not kill anyone. But the big “sword” that Jesus uses to fight against Satan is the Good News. Satan fights back (read Matthew 10:34). He attacks Jesus by hurting God’s people. That is why the 2nd horse is red, the same color as blood.

`Read Revelation 6:5, 6 about the black horse and its rider. What does this word picture tell us about God’s people and what happened when they preached the Good News? (Also read Leviticus 26:28 and Ezekiel 4:16 for a hint.)`

The rider on the black horse holds a scale. This scale weighs food. Someone in John’s vision announces: “ ‘A quart [two pounds] of wheat or three quarts [six pounds] of barley will cost a full day’s pay’ ” (Revelation 6:6, ERV). The announcement that people must measure food on scales shows a time when there will not be enough food. In John’s day, “ ‘a full day’s pay’ ” was enough money for a family to buy the food they needed to eat on that day. But when there was a food shortage, they were able to afford food for only one person. So, how did a family feed all of its members? They bought barley. Poor people ate barley because barley was the only thing that did not cost too much to buy.

The 3rd seal shows us more about what happens when people do not accept the Good News. We saw that the white horse showed us God’s people preaching the Good News. The black horse is a word picture that shows us a time when no one preaches the Good News. Grain, both wheat and barley, is a word picture for God’s truth (Luke 8:11). When people do not accept God’s truth, they will not have enough spiritual food on the earth. Many people will go “hungry.”