---
title:  Jesus Opens The 4th Lock Or Seal
date:   29/01/2019
---

_John shows us Death and the Grave as people who destroy humans with war, hunger, death, and wild animals._

`Read Revelation 6:7, 8. What is happening here in these verses? How is this action connected to what hap­ pens when Jesus opens the 4th lock, or seal?`

Let us look at the Greek word for the color of the horse in the 4th seal. The word for this color in Greek is “chloros [khlō-ros’].” Chloros is the gray color of a dead body when it rots. The name of the horse’s rider is Death. Death has a friend. His friend’s name is Hades. Hades is the Greek word for the “grave.” So, John in his vision shows us Death and the Grave, or Hades, as people. God allows Death and Hades to destroy humans with war, hunger, death, and wild animals (Matthew 24:7, 8).

The 4th seal is a time of disease and death. Its awful word pictures warn us about what happens when people throw out the Good News. The Good News is God’s spiritual food. People will go “hungry” for spiritual truth because they refused to eat the “food” that God wanted to feed them. In the end, they will “starve” to death. But there is good news for us. Jesus says, “ ‘I have power over death and hell [Hades; the grave]’ ” (Revelation 1:18, NLV). God limits Death’s power and Hades’ power over people. God gives Death and Hades power over only ¼ part of the earth.

`Read again Jesus’ messages to the churches in Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, and Thyatira (Revelation 2). Look at what happens in those four churches. How do those messages also show us what happens in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th seals?`

We saw that each of the seven churches show us what happens during different times in Christian history. The seals also explain what happens at different times in Christian history. During the time of the New Testament church, Jesus’ followers shared the Good News everywhere in a short time. After that, the Roman Kingdom attacked Christians. The 2nd seal shows us that God put a stop to Rome’s attacks on His church. Rome’s attacks lasted from the end of a.d. 100 to the beginning of a.d. 300. The 3rd seal shows us what happened between a.d. 300 and a.d. 400. At that time, there was not enough spiritual “food” or Bible truth in the church. It led to the time in history known as the “Dark Ages.” The 4th seal explains the spiritual death that happened in the Christian church during the Dark Ages.