---
title:  Jesus Opens The 5th Lock Or Seal
date:   30/01/2019
---

_John sees some of God’s people who died for their faith. They lie at the bottom of the altar and cry out to God to prove that they are innocent._

`What is happening in Revelation 6:9, 10?`

What does the word “souls” (Revelation 6:9, ERV) mean in the Bible? A soul is the whole person (Genesis 2:7). Revelation 6:9, 10 show us God’s loyal people, or “souls,” who died for their faith. In his vision, John sees these people “under the altar” (Revelation 6:9, ERV) in heaven’s sanctuary. Heaven’s sanctuary is the place where Jesus works to save His people. In the sanctuary on earth, the holy leaders took blood from the animals that people brought to God as gifts. Then the priests poured the blood at the bottom of the altar. God wants to show John that His people rest under the altar because they gave their lives for the truth (Exodus 29:12; Leviticus 4:7). In John’s vision, God’s people who are under the altar cry to God for justice. They ask God to prove that they are innocent.

Now let us be clear about something. These people are dead. They are not in heaven. The Bible teaches that death is the same as sleep. People do not talk or communicate after they die. So, these verses in Revelation are only word pictures. They explain the things that happen on this earth that are not fair. They do not explain what happens after a person dies.


`Read Revelation 6:11; Deuteronomy 32:43; and Psalm 79:10. How does God answer the prayers of His people who died for their faith and “cry out” to Him for justice?`

God gives white robes to His people who were killed for their faith. These white robes are word pictures for Jesus’ holy and obedient life. God gives this gift of white clothes to everyone who accepts His mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin (Revelation 3:5; Revelation 19:8). Then God tells His people they must rest or sleep in the grave until Jesus makes other believers right with God too (Revelation 7:9, 10). God’s people who died for their faith will not wake up from the dead until the Second Coming and the start of the 1,000 years in heaven with Jesus (Revelation 20:4).

The 5th seal shows us the time in the Christian church leading up to the Reformation. The Reformation was the time when people all over Europe woke up to Bible truth and started making big changes. These changes led to the start of the Protestant churches. Before that time, millions of people were killed because they believed Bible truth.