---
title:  Jesus Opens The 6th Lock Or Seal
date:   31/01/2019
---

_The people who stay alive during the Second Coming have God’s mark, or seal, on their foreheads. This seal means that God’s people are full of the Holy Spirit._

When Jesus opens the 5th lock, we see that God’s peo- ple who died for their faith shout to God for justice. The time comes for God to help His people and answer their prayers.

`Read Matthew 24:29, 30 and 2 Thessalonians 1:7–10. How do these verses help us understand what happens in Revelation 6:12–14? What does John show us?`

John tells us about the signs that happen in the sky when Jesus opens the 6th seal. In Matthew 24:29, 30, Jesus also talked about the signs of the 6th seal. These special signs appear in the sky at the end of the “time of great [awful] suffering” (Revelation 7:14, ERV), or the Dark Ages. The signs warn people that Jesus’ Second Coming will happen soon. The sun, the moon, the falling “stars,” and the sky in the 6th seal are real, not word pictures. At the same time, John says the real sun will look the same as black clothes. John uses this word picture to show us that the sun really will become black. John also says how the moon will look the same as blood. That shows us that the moon really will turn red. John says the stars that fall to the earth are the same as figs that drop off a tree. Christians believe that all these signs already happened: (1) In 1755, there was an awful earthquake in Lisbon, Portugal. (2) On May 19, 1780, people in eastern New York and southern New England saw the sun grow fully dark. (3) And on November 13, 1833, thousands of stars made the night look the same as day when they “fell” from the sky over the Atlantic Ocean. When people saw the stars fall, they started to wake up to Bible truth. Christians today see these signs as the things that John said must happen before the Second Coming.

When Jesus comes, He will give justice to everyone on the earth. Then evil people everywhere will feel deep panic (Revelation 6:15–17). They will ask the mountains to “ ‘fall on us. . . . Hide us from the anger of the Lamb!’ ” (Revelation 6:16, ERV). They will say, “ ‘The great [special] day of [T]heir [the Three-in-One God’s] anger has come. Who can live through [stay alive during] it?’ ” (Revelation 6:17, NIrV). John gives us the answer to this question in Revelation 7:4: the people who stay alive during the Second Coming have God’s mark, or seal, on their foreheads. This seal means that God’s people are full of the Holy Spirit. They have God’s Spirit locked inside them.