---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   01/02/2019
---

_“Even when God’s people must die for their faith, they win the war against sin. . . . The ‘crown of life’ waits for them.”—Kenneth Strand, “The Seven Heads” in Symposium [group dis- cussion] on Revelation— Book 2, page 206, adapted._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: Read Ellen G. White, “The World’s [all the people on the earth] Need [the thing we need most],” pages 457–460, in Testimonies [messages] to Ministers [pastors] and Gospel [Good News] Workers.

In a vision, John watches Jesus open the seven locks, or seals, on a scroll. We saw that a scroll is a rolled-up piece of writing paper. John’s vision about Jesus and the seven seals shows us God’s care for His people on earth. Writer Kenneth A. Strand tells us the same thing:

“The Bible shows us that God has always cared for His peo- ple. The Bible also shows us that during every time in history God is always there to make His people strong.The Bible prom- ises us that at the end of time, God will prove that His people are innocent of doing anything wrong. Then God will reward His people with the gift of everlasting life. What a precious gift! We can understand only a little about how wonderful this gift is for us. In the book of Revelation, John talks about how much God cares for His people and tells us even more about God’s love for us. So, the book of Revelation has a special message for us. The book of Revelation shows us the most important message in the whole Bible: Jesus, the ‘Living One.’ Jesus won the war against death and the grave (Revelation 1:8). Jesus will never leave His loyal followers. Even when God’s people must die for their faith, they win the war against sin (Revelation 12:11). The ‘crown of life’ waits for them (read Revelation 2:10; Revelation 21:1–4; and Revelation 22:4).”—Kenneth A. Strand, “The Seven Heads: Do They Represent [show us] the Roman Emperors [kings]?” in Symposium [group discussion] on Revelation— Book 2, Daniel and Revelation Committee [group of people] Series [a set of books about the same topic or idea], volume 7, page 206, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. What important lessons have you learned from our study about Jesus and the seven locks or seals? How does Jesus’ opening the seals show you that God is in control of everything, even when bad things happen on earth? How does Jesus’ opening the locks also show us that all of God’s wonderful promises to us will happen?`

`2. How can your church work harder to share the Good News about Jesus with other people?`