---
title:  The Two Contracts
date:   26/08/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Galatians 4:21–31; Genesis 1:28; Genesis 2:2, 3; Genesis 3:15.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “But the Jerusalem that is above is free. She [the heavenly Jerusalem] is our mother” (Galatians 4:26, NIrV).

Some christians reject the power of the Old Testament. They do not allow it to have any say in their lives. They feel the giving of the law at Sinai does not agree with the gospel. So, they think that the contract given by God to His people at Sinai is outdated.They believeit wasfora timewhen salvation was based on obeying the law. But the Bible shows that the people of that time failed to obey.As a result, some Christians say God made a new contract. They say this new contract is based on Jesus’ mercy, just as the old contract is based on obeying the law.

But salvation never came from obeying the law. From the start, the religion of the Jews was always one of mercy and forgiveness. In Galatia, Paul fought against the belief in salvation by works. This false belief turned people away from the truth and from the Old Testament. The old and new contracts are not symbols of the times when they were given. Instead, they show two different ways of being saved.These ways go back to Cain andAbel.The old contract is a symbol of people who trust in their own works to please God, just as Cain trusted in his own goodness. But the new contract shows the experience of people who trust in God to do all He has promised. In the same way, Abel trusted in God to forgive his sins.