---
title:  The ABC’s of the first contract
date:   27/08/2017
---

_Genesis 2:2, 3, 15–17_

In Galatians 4:21–31, Paul writes about the history of Israel. Many people feel that these verses are the most difficult part of his letter to understand. The first step in understanding them is to know what he means by the word “covenant.” The covenant is a contract or agreement between God and His people.

The Hebrew word for “covenant” is berit. Berit is a legal contract. Covenants were used for thousands of years across the Near East in Bible times.These covenants helped to explain relationships between people and nations. Part of making a covenant involved killing animals. Death showed what would happen to the person who broke the covenant.

“God used covenants to show His plan to the human family. He did this from the time of Adam to Jesus. The promises of the covenant pointed to a coming Savior. And those same promises reached their highest point in the covenant God made with David. (Read Genesis 12:2, 3; 2 Samuel 7:12–17; Isaiah 11.) Then Israel became slaves in Babylon. During that time, God promised Israel a better contract. This contract was the “new covenant” (Jeremiah 31:31–34). It told about the coming Messiah (Ezekiel 36:26–28; Ezekiel 37:22–28). [The Messiah was God’s Chosen One. He would save God’s people from their sins.] God promised the Messiah would come through David’s royal line.”—Adapted, Hans K. LaRondelle, Our Creator Redeemer [Savior] (Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press, 2005), page 4.

`Read Genesis 1:28 and Genesis 2:2, 3, 15–17. God made a covenant with Adam in the Garden of Eden before sin. What was this covenant based on?`

The covenant was based on God’s command not to eat the fruit from one tree. This command was not impossible to obey. Humans were created to obey. But Adam and Eve chose to disobey. They broke the covenant given to them at Creation. And sin made it impossible for fallen humans to obey. But God would heal the broken relationship that Adam and Eve lost. God made this relationship new by the promise of a Savior. This promise became a new covenant of mercy.

`Read Genesis 3:15. This verse contains the first gospel promise in the Bible. How does this verse show the hope that we have in Christ?`