---
title:  God’s contract with Abram
date:   28/08/2017
---

_Genesis 12:1–5_

`What promises does God make to Abram in Genesis 12:1–5? What is Abram’s answer?`

God’s first promises to Abram are some of the most powerful verses in the OldTestament.These verses are all about God’s mercy. God makes the promises, not Abram. Abram does nothing to earn God’s approval. Nor is there anything in these verses to show that God and Abram somehow worked together to come up with this agreement. Instead, God promises everything. Abram is asked only to have faith in God’s promises. Yet, this faith is not just a weak belief. Instead, Abram shows his faith by leaving his family and going to the land of promise. And he is 75 years old at the time!

`Read Genesis 15:1–6. God promises Abram a son. Abram waits 10 years for the son to be born. During this time, what questions does Abram have about God’s promise?`

It is easy to think of Abram as a man of faith who never had any questions or doubts. But the Bible tells us a different story. Abram believed. He also had questions along the way. But his faith grew. In some ways, Abram is the same as the father in Mark 9:24. What Abram really says, in Genesis 15:8, to God is: “I believe, but help me not to doubt!”

God tells Abram His promise of a son is sure and true. He makes a legal contract with Abram to show Abram that he can trust Him. This agreement is so amazing and special. But it is not surprising at all that God makes a contract with Abram. What is amazing is how far God is willing to go and what He is willing to do. In Abram’s day, rulers did not like the idea of making legal agreements with their servants. But this is just what God does! He gives Abram His word. But God does not stop there. Then He does something even more amazing. He walks through the animal pieces that have been killed. This act is a sign. It shows Abram that God is willing to give His life to keep His promise. And that is just what happened on the cross. Jesus gave up His life on Calvary. His death made His promise real.

`In what parts of your life do you need to reach out by faith to believe in what seems impossible? How can you learn to keep holding on in faith, no matter what happens?`