---
title:  Abraham, Sarah, and Hagar
date:   29/08/2017
---

_Galatians 4:21–31_

`Read Galatians 4:21–31 and Genesis 16. Why does Paul, in Galatians 4:21–31, not think very well of what happened with Hagar? What important point about salvation is Paul making by using this Old Testament story?`

Hagar was an Egyptian slave in Abram’s household. Hagar’s part in the Genesis story is connected to Abram’s failure to believe God’s promise (Genesis 16).

God promised Abram and Sarai a son. They waited 10 years for the promised child to be born. But they did not have a child during that time. So, they decided God needed their “help.” Sarai gave Hagar to Abram as a concubine. A concubine is just a little lower in rank than a wife. Sarai’s plan might seem strange to us today. But it was quite a clever idea. In those days, a female slave could become the mother for a childless woman. So, Sarai could count any child born from her husband and Hagar as her own. The plan worked. But Ishmael was not the child God promised.

This story is a powerful example of what happens when even a great man of God loses faith for a moment. In Genesis 17:18, 19, Abram, now Abraham, begs God to accept Ishmael as his heir. But the Lord rejects that offer. There was nothing out of the ordinary about the birth of Ishmael—except for the fact that Sarai was willing to share her husband with another woman! Ishmael is a child born “in the usual way” (Galatians 4:29, NIrV). This wording means that no special help from God was needed to create Ishmael and give birth to him. And so, Abram and Sarai did not need to show faith in order for Ishmael to be born. Suppose Abram had trusted what God promised him instead of giving in to doubt. Then the situation with Hagar never would have happened. And a lot of grief could have been avoided.

`Read Genesis 17:15–19; Genesis 18:10–13; and Hebrews 11:11, 12. Notice what these verses say about the birth of Isaac. His birth required so much faith of Abraham and Sarah. Why?`

`In what ways has your lack of faith in God’s promises caused you pain? How can you learn from these mistakes to trust God’s promises to you?`