---
title:  Hagar and mount Sinai
date:   30/08/2017
---

_Exodus 6:2–8_

`Read Exodus 6:2–8; Exodus 19:3–6; and Deuteronomy 32:10–12. What kind of relationship does God want to set up with His people at Sinai? How is God’s promise to them the same as His promise to Abraham?`

God wants to share the same relationship with the children of Israel that He shared with Abraham. Many things about God’s words to Abraham in Genesis 12:1–3 are the same as His words, in Exodus 19, to Moses. In both covenants, God announces what He will do for His people. He does not ask the Israelites to promise to do anything to earn His blessings. Instead, they are to obey because of those blessings. The Hebrew word translated as “to obey,” in Exodus 19:5, means “to hear.” So, God’s words do not mean we are saved by our works. Just the opposite is true. God wants Israel to have the same faith Abraham had in answer to the promises God made (Genesis 15:6).

The purpose of the covenant at Sinai was to point out how God’s mercy is the cure for sin. The problem with the Sinai covenant is not on God’s part. The problem is with the promises of the people (Hebrews 8:6). The Israelites do not answer God’s promises with faith and with hearts emptied of pride. Instead, they answer with trust in themselves. “ ‘We will do everything the LORD has said’ ” (Exodus 19:8, NIrV). The Israelites had lived as slaves in Egypt for more than 400 years. So, they have no real idea of God’s true majesty. Nor do they know how sinful they truly are. The Israelites try to turn God’s contract of mercy and forgiveness into a contract of works. This mistake is the same one Abram and Sarai made when they tried to “help” God make His promise of a son come true through Hagar. Hagar is a symbol of Israel’s mistake at Sinai. She shows that humans cannot earn salvation by their own efforts.

Paul does not mean the law given at Sinai was evil or destroyed. Instead, he worries about the Galatians’ misunderstanding of the law. “The law should have shown the Galatians that it was impossible to please God by keeping it. Instead, the law caused them to depend on their own efforts to please God. So, the law did not help to lead the Jewish teachers to Christ. Instead, it closed them off from Christ.”—Adapted, O. Palmer Roberston, The Christ of the Covenants (Phillipsburg, NJ: Presbyterian and Reformed Publishing Company, 1980), page 181.