---
title:  Ishmael and Isaac today
date:   31/08/2017
---

_Galatians 4:28–31_

Paul’s short history of Israel is meant to overturn the arguments made by his attackers. They claim to be the true sons of Abraham. And they say Jerusalem is their mother. They also say the Gentiles, or non-Jews, are not true sons. And they say all Gentiles need to be circumcised. To be circumcised means that the skin at the end of the sex organ of a man or a boy is cut off. Paul’s attackers claim that only circumcised Gentiles could become true sons of Abraham and followers of Christ.

Paul says just the opposite is true. His attackers are not the true sons of Abraham. Instead, they are the same as Ishmael. Paul’s attackers placed their trust in being circumcised. They trusted in their own works.This mistake is the same one that Sarai made with Hagar and that Israel made with God’s law at Sinai. But Gentile believers were the sons of Abraham. True, they were not related to Abraham by birth. Instead, they were the sons of Abraham in the same way Isaac was. They were sons by a divine miracle. “God promised Abraham that there would be non-Jewish believers who would believe in Him. In the same way, God promised Isaac to Abraham. God would set the Gentiles free from sin through the new birth. This birth into freedom was the same as Isaac’s birth. Both were a miracle of God’s mercy.”—Adapted, James D. G. Dunn, The Epistle [Letter] to the Galatians (London: Hendrickson Publishers, 1993), page 266.

`Read Galatians 4:28–31. What will the true children of Abraham face in this world?`

In Genesis 21:8–10, Isaac is being shown honor. And it seems Ishmael makes fun of him. The meaning of the Hebrew word in Genesis 21:9 for what Ishmael does is “to laugh.” Ishmael’s laughter upsets Sarah. Her anger shows that Ishmael was making fun of Isaac. Ishmael’s laughter might not seem very wrong to us today. But it shows the deep hatred that split the family over who the true heir was.

We are the spiritual sons and daughters of Isaac. So, we should not be surprised when we suffer hard times and are attacked, even by church members.

`In what ways have you been attacked for your faith by the people closest to you? Or worse, how might you be guilty of attacking others for their faith?`