---
title:  Additional thought
date:   01/09/2017
---

Read Ellen G.White, “The Law and the Covenants,” pages 363–373, in Patriarchs [Forefathers and Leaders] and Prophets [Special Messengers].

“God’s covenant with Abraham contained the promise of salvation. So, why was another covenant made at Sinai? It was made because the people had lost much of the knowledge of God during their time as slaves in Egypt. They no longer realized the importance of the covenant with Abraham. . . .

“God brought the Israelites to Sinai. He showed them His glory. He gave them His law. He promised them great blessings if they obeyed. Exodus 19:5, 6. But the people did not realize how sinful their hearts were. They did not understand that it was impossible for them to follow God’s law without Christ’s help. They agreed very quickly to the covenant with God. But only a few weeks passed before they broke it. They bowed down to an idol. They could not hope to win God’s acceptance through a broken agreement. Now they saw their sin. They felt their need for forgiveness and the Savior. . . . Now by faith and love they were tied to God as their Deliverer from sin. And they could appreciate the blessings of the new covenant.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 371, 372.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Is your own walk with the Lord more of an “old covenant” walk or a “new covenant” walk? How can you tell the difference?`

`2. What are some of the problems that cause suffering in your local church? How are they being solved? How can you make sure you are not causing the suffering? (Read also Matthew 18:15–17 to help guide you in the right way.)`

`3. Have you ever promised God something and then broken your promise? How does this sad fact help you to understand what God’s mercy truly means?`

**Summary**: The stories of Hagar, Ishmael, and the children of Israel at Sinai show us how foolish it is to trust in our own efforts to make God’s promises come true. The new covenant of mercy and forgiveness was made with Adam and Eve after sin. Then it was made new with Abraham. And at last, it came true in Christ.