---
title:  Saul’s Miscalculation
date:  10/12/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: 1 Samuel 28**

**Saul’s Miscalculation**

God chose Saul to be king of Israel and filled him with His Spirit (1 Sam. 10:6). Because of his continual disobedience to the Lord’s commands (cf. 1 Sam. 13, 15) and his jealousy and hatred for David, however, “the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him” (1 Sam. 16:14, NKJV).

Instead of wisely administering his kingdom, Saul, under the influence of the evil spirit, spent most of his time persecuting David. The Philistines took advantage of Saul’s negligence and gained a huge military advantage over Israel. Saul was losing his mind and his kingdom, and in desperation he consulted the Lord through traditional methods such as prophets, dreams, visions, and Urim and Thummim. The Lord had departed from him, however, and did not answer. Scripture vividly describes Saul’s fear: “When Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly” (1 Sam. 28:5, NKJV).

With no word from the Lord by the use of accepted methods, Saul decided to use a method that God had strictly forbidden. Desperate to find out what would happen in the battle with the Philistines the following day, the king disguised himself and made arrangements to consult a spiritualist medium in the town of Endor. Although Samuel, at this point, had died and was buried (v. 3), the medium _supposedly_ conjured up Samuel’s soul from the dead. But did she really? Those who believe in the immortality of the soul frequently use this story in an attempt to prove that the soul of Samuel appeared to the medium of Endor. However, a careful study of the story gives us multiple reasons why this conclusion is untenable.

#### inScribe

Read 1 Samuel 28 from the translation of your choice. Write out 1 Samuel 28:10–15. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `