---
title:  The Samuel Impostor
date:  11/12/2022
---

#### inGest

Was it Samuel’s soul that appeared to the medium at Endor? No, for several reasons. If God refused to answer Saul by approved methods (1 Sam. 28:6), why would He answer him by using a method that He had forbidden? God had commanded: “'Give no regard to mediums and familiar spirits; do not seek after them, to be defiled by them: I am the Lord your God” (Lev. 19:31, NKJV, emphasis supplied; cf. Isa. 8:19, 20). The sentence against mediums was death by stoning (Lev. 20:27). Saul knew that God had forbidden necromancy, and for this reason he himself had eradicated them from the land (1 Sam. 28:7–9).

The dead know nothing (Eccles. 9:5, 6). If Samuel was dead, buried, and knew nothing, how could he deliver a message to Saul? Samuel was a righteous man (Heb. 11:32), so why did his purported soul come up from the earth rather than down from heaven (1 Sam. 28:8, 11, 13)?

The medium described the communicating entity as “gods” (Elohim) coming up out of the earth (1 Sam. 28:13). The word Elohim is variously translated as “a divine being” (NASB), “a spirit” (NIV), “a god-like being” (CJB), or “a god” (ESV). This raises a red flag! Did Samuel become “a god” after his death? Did not Satan pawn off the same lie on Eve when he told her that she would not die but be like God? (Gen. 3:4, 5). Saul believed that the Samuel impostor was a god, and for this reason, he bowed before him with his face to the ground (1 Sam. 28:14; cf. 2 Chron. 7:3; 20:18). The communicating entity was not Samuel, because Samuel would never have accepted worship. Peter (Acts 10:25, 26) and the angels refused worship (Rev. 19:10; 22:8, 9). Even further, one wonders why the purported Samuel looked like an old man covered with a mantle.

The Samuel impostor told Saul, “Tomorrow you and your sons will be with me” (1 Sam. 28:19). If, as some believe, the soul of the dead goes somewhere, will the soul of the wicked go to the same place at death as the soul of the righteous? Spiritualism teaches this, but not Christianity. Samuel is in the grave awaiting the “better resurrection” (Heb. 11:32, 35) and Saul the second resurrection (Rev. 20:5).

The parallel passage in 1 Chronicles proves that the communicant was not Samuel. First Chronicles 10:13, 14 tells us that Saul did not inquire of the Lord: “So Saul died for his unfaithfulness which he had committed against the Lord, because he did not keep the word of the Lord, and also because he consulted a medium for guidance. But he did not inquire of the Lord; therefore, He killed him, and turned the kingdom over to David the son of Jesse.” If Saul did not inquire of the Lord, then the Lord did not answer him. Saul perceived that the communicant was Samuel (1 Sam. 28:14, NKJV, KJV), but at this time Saul was possessed by an evil spirit (1 Sam. 16:14) and therefore could not trust his own perceptions.

` `