---
title:  Spiritualism’s Objectives
date:  12/12/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Where did the doctrine of the immortality of the soul come from? Certainly not the Bible! It infiltrated Jewish theology in the Diaspora from Greek philosophy and entered into the Christian church when the early church fathers imbibed it from Hellenistic culture. The Roman Catholic Church then embraced this heresy along with Sunday worship and the idea of an eternally burning hell. When Protestants broke away from the mother church, they were never able to discard these three heretical doctrines. According to Roman Catholic theologian John O’Brien, Protestants, so to speak, still carry in their pocket a picture of their mother and a lock of her hair. (John O’Brien, The Faith of Millions: The Credential of the Catholic Religion (Huntington, IN: Our Sunday Visitor, 1938), 400, 401.)

The doctrine of the immortality of the soul has ecumenical implications. Nathaniel P. Tallmadge, who was governor of the territory of Wisconsin and a senator of New York, became a convert of spiritualism. He claimed that the spirit of the deceased John C. Calhoun visited him on a regular basis. According to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, on two separate occasions, in two different years and from two different mediums, Tallmadge asked what the objectives of spiritualism were. The spirit replied on both occasions: “It is to draw mankind together in harmony and to convince skeptics of the immortality of the soul.” (Arthur Conan Doyle, The Edge of the Unknown (London: John Murray, 1930), 155.) Conan Doyle was also a spiritualist. He wrote about the ecumenical agenda of spiritualism: “I believe that one of the ultimate results of this movement will be to unite Christianity upon a common basis so strong and, indeed, self-sufficient that the quibbles which separate the Churches of to-day will be seen in their true proportion and will be swept away or disregarded.” (Conan Doyle, The Edge of the Unknown, 155, 156.) The book of Revelation describes how, at the end of days, “spirits of devils” will go to the kings of the earth and the whole world to gather them for the final battle against God. The prophet Isaiah warned against spiritualism and exalted the Word of God as the only litmus test of truth and error: “And when they say to you, ‘Seek those who are mediums and wizards, who whisper and mutter,’ should not a people seek their God? Should they seek the dead on behalf of the living? To the law and to the testimony! If they do not speak according to this Word, it is because there is no light in them” (Isa. 8:19, 20).

The Bible is the great detector of error—the light that rebukes the darkness of the séance chamber. Yet, today multitudes replace the Bible with a multitude of human “authorities” such as science so-called, tradition, philosophy, feelings, emotions, signs and wonders, preachers, theologians, and the testimony of the senses. Satan uses his angels, channelers, astrologers, card readers, crystal ball gazers, palm readers, psychics, and supposed spirits of dead saints because these methods are entirely under his control. Our only safety is to trust the Bible and the Bible only.

` `