---
title:  Relational Response
date:  14/12/2022
---

#### inVite

The idea that the soul leaves the body at death to be with Jesus seems assuring and comforting, but is it really? Parapsychologists have done tests which prove that something is communicating from the other side. However, there is no way for them to identify who the communicants are. Because the communicants are invisible entities, researchers have no way of proving that they are the spirits of the departed. This is a channel through which Satan has full and complete control and can lead the masses astray from Jesus. He can tell people whatever he wants them to believe, and there is no way they can escape his power by themselves.

We have been told that purported spirits of the dead will appear to the living and tell them that the observance of Sunday honors Jesus and that those who keep the Sabbath are displeasing Him and causing the calamities in the world (cf. Matt. 24:6–9): “Communications from the spirits will declare that God has sent them to convince the rejecters of Sunday of their error, affirming that the laws of the land should be obeyed as the law of God. They will lament the great wickedness in the world, and second the testimony of religious teachers, that the degraded state of morals is caused by the desecration of Sunday.” (Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1911), 591.)

Jesus the Living Word cannot contradict the written Word. How can Jesus say in the written Word that He is the Lord of the Sabbath and then send the purported spirits of the departed to tell the world that He wants them to keep Sunday? The living Jesus and His written Word cannot be in conflict, because the Living Word is always in harmony with the written Word. Satan will even counterfeit the second coming of Christ by passing himself off as Christ (Matt. 24:23, 24; 2 Thess. 2:8–12). This will be the almost overmastering delusion.

Our only protection against these delusive end-time deceptions of Satan is to simply believe in and obey the written Word by declaring, “For the living know that they will die; but the dead know nothing” (Eccles. 9:5). In the last remnant of time, we will not be able to trust our senses or feelings, nor miracles, impressions, or what others say. God will protect those who render unquestioning obedience to the objective, written Word of God.

Satan is an expert at making counterfeits look genuine. A counterfeit $100 bill may look exactly like the genuine to the untrained eye, but this does not necessarily mean that it is. Objective tests, not subjective experience, must be applied to the currency to determine its genuineness. Likewise, the objective Word of God must test all doctrines and religious experience! At the end, “So closely will the counterfeit resemble the true that it will be impossible to distinguish between them except by the Holy Scriptures. By their testimony every statement and every miracle must be tested.” (White, The Great Controversy, 593.)

` `