---
title:  Not Beloved Friends and Relatives
date:  15/12/2022
---

#### inSight

“When Saul inquired for Samuel, the Lord did not cause Samuel to appear to Saul. He saw nothing. Satan was not allowed to disturb the rest of Samuel in the grave, and bring him up in reality to the witch of Endor. God does not give Satan power to resurrect the dead. But Satan’s angels assume the form of dead friends, and speak and act like them, that through professed dead friends he can the better carry on his work of deception. Satan knew Samuel well, and he knew how to represent him before the witch of Endor, and to utter correctly the fate of Saul and his sons.” (The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, _Ellen G. White Comments_, 2:1022.)

“I saw that the saints must get a thorough understanding of present truth, which they will be obliged to maintain from the Scriptures. They must understand the state of the dead; for the spirits of devils will yet appear to them, professing to be beloved friends and relatives, who will declare to them that the Sabbath has been changed, also other unscriptural doctrines. They will do all in their power to excite sympathy and will work miracles before them to confirm what they declare. The people of God must be prepared to withstand these spirits with the Bible truth that the dead know not anything, and that they who appear to them are the spirits of devils.” (Ellen G. White, _Early Writings_ (Battle Creek, MI: Review and Herald, 1882), 87.)

“He [Satan] has power to bring before men the appearance of their departed friends. The counterfeit is perfect; the familiar look, the words, the tone, are reproduced with marvelous distinctness.” (Ellen G. White, _The Great Controversy_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1911), 552.)

“Spiritualism is the masterpiece of deception. It is Satan’s most successful and fascinating delusion—one calculated to take hold of the sympathies of those who have laid their loved ones in the grave. Evil angels come in the form of those loved ones, and relate incidents connected with their lives, and perform acts which they performed while living. In this way they lead persons to believe that their dead friends are angels, hovering over them, and communicating with them. These evil angels, who assume to be the deceased friends, are regarded with a certain idolatry, and with many their word has greater weight than the word of God.” (Ellen G. White, _Signs of the Times_, August 26, 1889.)

“Satan leads men to consult those that have familiar spirits; and by revealing hidden things of the past, he inspires confidence in his power to foretell things to come. By experience gained through the long ages, he can reason from cause to effect and often forecast with a degree of accuracy, some of the future events of man’s life. Thus he is enabled to deceive poor, misguided souls and bring them under his power and lead them captive at his will.” (Ellen G. White, _Patriarchs and Prophets_ (Battle Creek, MI: Review and Herald, 1890), 687.)

`After this week’s study of the chapter, how did the Spirit convict your heart?`

`Where are areas to which you can apply this week’s principles?`