---
title:  Boasting in the Cross
date:   23/09/2017
---

#### Read for This Week’s Study
Gal. 6:11–18, Rom. 6:1–6, 12:1–8, 2 Cor. 4:10, 5:17, 11:23–29.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world”(Galatians 6:14, ESV).

This study of Galatians has been intense. That is because the letter itself is intense. Knowing Paul’s calling, knowing the truth of what he preached (after all, as he said numerous times, that truth came from the Lord), Paul wrote with the inspired passion of the Old Testament prophets, of an Isaiah, a Jeremiah, a Hosea. Just as they pleaded with the people of God in their time to turn away from their error, Paul here is doing the same with those in his time.

We can see this similarity is true when considering that no matter how different the immediate circumstances were, in the end the words of Jeremiah could just as easily apply to the Galatians as they did to those in Jeremiah’s day: “Thus saith the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich man glory in his riches: but let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the Lord which exercise lovingkindness, judgment, and righteousness, in the earth: for in these things I delight, saith the Lord” (Jer. 9:23, 24).

Nowhere do our “glorious” human wisdom, our riches, or our might appear more clearly in all their futility and vanity than before the cross of Christ—the focus of Paul’s letter to his erring flock in Galatia.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, September 30._

