---
title:  Further Thought
date:   29/09/2017
---

“The cross of Calvary challenges, and will finally vanquish every earthly and hellish power. In the cross all influence centers, and from it all influence goes forth. It is the great center of attraction; for on it Christ gave up His life for the human race. This sacrifice was offered for the purpose of restoring man to his original perfection. Yea, more, it was offered to give him an entire transformation of character, making him more than a conqueror.

“Those who in the strength of Christ overcome the great enemy of God and man, will occupy a position in the heavenly courts above angels who have never fallen.

“Christ declares, ‘I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me.’ If the cross does not find an influence in its favor, it creates an influence. Through generation succeeding generation, the truth for this time is revealed as present truth. Christ on the cross was the medium whereby mercy and truth met together, and righteousness and peace kissed each other. This is the means that is to move the world (MS 56, 1899).”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 6, p. 1113.

#### Discussion Questions

`What significance do you find in the fact that Paul both begins and ends his letter with reference to God’s grace? Compare Gal. 1:3 and 6:18.`

`In light of Paul’s statement about having been “crucified . . . to the world” (Gal. 6:14), what relationship should Christians have with the world today? How should Christians relate to issues dealing with the environment, racism, abortion, etc., if they have died to the world?`

`How does a person know if he or she has experienced the “new creation” that Paul writes about?`

`Based on what you have learned this quarter, how would you summarize Paul’s views on the following topics: the law, works of law, justification by faith, the old and new covenants, the work of Christ, and the nature of the Christian life?`

**Summary**: True religion does not consist of outward behavior alone but in the condition of the heart. When the heart is surrendered to God, a person’s life will more and more reflect the character of Christ as he or she grows in faith. The heart must be subdued by Christ; when that happens, all else will follow.
