---
title:  How Much Does Real Rest Cost?
date:  17/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
2 Samuel 11:1–5; 2 Samuel 12:1–4; 2 Samuel 12:10–23; Psalm 51; 1 John 1:9.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “God, create [make] a pure [clean] heart in me. Give me a new spirit that is faithful [loyal and obedient] to you” (Psalm 51:10, NIrV).

SOME PEOPLE will do almost anything to have a little peace and quiet. They will pay for quiet time, too. Many big cities have rooms that have no WI-FI. People can pay by the hour to use these rooms. These rooms have strict rules: no noise, no visitors. People will rent these rooms just so that they can nap or sit quietly and think. There also are small sleep rooms that people can pay to use in airports. Workers even can buy boxes that can be unfolded and pulled over the head and chest. The boxes are the same as a shield. People use these carboard shields when they want to feel private during their breaks at work.

Real rest costs us something, too. Sure, many self-help experts want you to believe that finding rest is as easy as making the choice to rest. But if we are honest with ourselves, we will see that we cannot bring real rest to our hearts. In the 4th century, Augustine talked in his famous book Confessions about the loving-favor of God. Augustine says, “You [God] have made us for yourself. Our hearts do not rest until they find rest in you.”—Adapted.

This week, we look at the life of David. David was a man who showed to other people the love that was in the heart of God. As we read about David, we will find out how he discovered what rest in God really cost.