---
title:  Tired And Worn Out 
date:  18/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

On a warm spring evening, King David finds no rest. He walks on the roof of his royal house. David really should be with his army across the Jordan River. David should be leading his army in war. He should be helping Israel beat the Ammonites so that his kingdom finally will be at peace.

`David is not where he should be. This wrong choice makes it possible for him to fall into sin. Read the story about the fall of David in 2 Samuel 11:1–5. What happens in this story? What awful sin does David do?`

David looks out over the city and sees a very beautiful woman. She is taking a bath. David wants her. His wish to sin takes control of his heart. That evening, David sleeps with Bathsheba. Bathsheba is the wife of one of the soldiers of King David. In Bible times, kings have power to do whatever they want. As king, David does not need to follow the rules that everyone else must obey. But this painful story shows us a powerful Bible truth. Just because David is king, he is not free to break the law of God.

The law protects us from sin. It keeps us safe. So, when the king breaks the law, he must pay the awful price. What happens as soon as David breaks the law of God? Right away, he feels his life start to change for the worse. David tries to tell himself that no one knows about his sin. Then Bathsheba tells him she is going to have his baby. Her husband is too far way and has been gone too long to be the father. Now David is in deep trouble.

`How does David try to cover his sin? Read 2 Samuel 11:6–27 for the answer.`

David comes up with a very tricky plan to get Uriah home to sleep with his wife. This way, everyone will think Uriah is the father of the child of Bathsheba. But the plan of David fails. Uriah is loyal to God. Uriah refuses to visit his wife. He tells David, “ ‘The Holy Box and the soldiers of Israel and Judah are staying in tents. My lord Joab and my lord’s officers are camping out in the field. So it is not right for me to go home to eat and drink and sleep with my wife’ ” (2 Samuel 11:11, NIrV). What David cannot do by tricks or traps, he does by force. He orders for Uriah to be killed.