---
title:  Nathan And The Picture Story 
date:  19/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

First, David sleeps with the wife of one of his most loyal soldiers. Then David tries to cover his sin. David orders Joab to kill Uriah and make it look as if the enemy shot Uriah in war. These sins show us one of the worst times in the life of King David. But there is good news. God sends Nathan to David. Nathan is a prophet. A prophet is a special messenger from God. Nathan and David are friends. Earlier, Nathan gives David advice about his plans to build God a temple (2 Samuel 7). Now, God gives Nathan a different job to do for the guilty king.

`Why do you think Nathan chooses to tell a story? Why do you think he does not shame or accuse David by naming his sin right away? Read 2 Samuel 12:1–14 for the answer.`

Nathan knows what to say. He says it in a way that David can understand. David was a shepherd before he was a king. So, Nathan tells a story about sheep. Nathan knows that David is a man who loves to do what is just and fair. So, we see that Nathan sets a trap for David. David walks right into it by announcing his own punishment: death.

When David judges himself, Nathan says, “ ‘You are the man!’ ” (2 Samuel 12:7, NIrV). There are different ways that Nathan can say these words. Nathan can shout them at David. Nathan can stick his finger in the face of David and accuse him. Or Nathan can say the words with love. When we look at the way David answers Nathan, we can see that Nathan chooses to show David the mercy and love of God for sinners. David must feel the pain that God feels when one of His children sins against Him. The words of Nathan touch the heart of David. He sees how awful his sin really is.

`Why does David say, “I have sinned against the Lord”? Why does he not say, “I have sinned against Bathsheba?” Or, I am a killer”? For the answer read, 2 Samuel 12:13; read also Psalm 51:4.`

David sees that sin hurts God. When we sin, we also hurt ourselves. Our sin hurts other people, too. When we sin, we cause our families or churches to feel shame. But more than anything, we cause God pain. Our sin nails God to the cross again.