---
title:  Forgive And Forget? 
date:  20/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

David announces his own punishment (2 Samuel 12:5, 6). Then Nathan tells David that his sin is very big. Bad things will happen in the future because of it (2 Samuel 12:10–12). The heart of David breaks with sorrow. David confesses his sin. Right away, Nathan tells David, “ ‘The LORD will forgive you, even for this sin’ ” (2 Samuel 12:13, ERV). Do you see that David does not need to wait for God to forgive him? David does not prove that he is ready to be forgiven before God forgives him.

Then Nathan tells David some more bad news. The child of David and Bathsheba will die soon after it is born.

`What does it mean that God forgives the sin of David and takes it away? Does God change the past? Does everyone just forget about what happened? Read 2 Samuel 12:10–23 as you think about these questions.`

David sees his life start to fall apart: the dead baby, his future family troubles with his sons. But David also understands that God will forgive his sin. The mercy of God will cover the mistakes he made. Someday, the bad things that happened will be made right. God will heal the suffering. So, David can find rest now in the mercy of God.

`What does David feel he really needs? What does David also wish for more than anything? For the answer, read Psalm 51:1–6.`

In Psalm 51, David makes a public announcement. He opens his heart and confesses his sins. David cries for the mercy of God. He asks for God to show him His love that never fails. David wishes for a clean heart and a new spirit.

This Psalm helps us understand how our rest in Jesus costs. First, we must understand that, as sinners, we need help. We need a Savior. We see our sins. Then we cry out to the only One who can wash us and make us clean. The Savior is the only One who can make us new. When we cry out to Him for help, we will find courage. If you ever feel you sinned too much for God to take you back, remember David. David sleeps with a married woman. David lies. He kills. He breaks at least five of the Ten Commandments. If David can cry out to God for help and forgiveness, then we can too.