---
title:  Something New 
date:  21/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`David confesses his sin. He does not try to make an excuse for his behavior or say that his sin is not really that bad. Then David asks God for something. What does David ask for? For the answer, read Psalm 51:7–12.`

David talks about being made clean with “hyssop” (Psalm 51:7, NIrV). Hyssop is a small plant that belongs to the mint family. Every Israelite in Bible times understands what David is talking about when he says hyssop. Hyssop is used in the law of Moses to make a person clean (Leviticus 14:4). By talking about hyssop, David shows that he understands his need for a Substitute. The Substitute will accept the punishment of David and his sins. This Savior will come in the future and take away the sins of all the people on earth who accept Him.

Next, David asks God for joy. Are you surprised that David asks for joy after all the awful things he does? Verse 13 helps us understand why David asks for joy: “Then I will teach your ways to those [people] who do wrong. And sinners will turn back to you” (Psalm 51:13, ICB).

`After David sins and confesses, he prays, “Do not send me away from you. Do not take your Holy Spirit away from me” (Psalm 51:11, ICB). Why do you think David prays this prayer? Read also verse 12 for the answer.`

David does not want to lose the feeling of God in his heart. David sees that he is powerless without the Holy Spirit. David knows now how easily the human heart can fall into sin. His trust in himself is broken.

David understands that his future wins against sin will not come from him. His wins will come only from God. So, David must depend fully on God.

Our win against sin is not about us. Our win is about Jesus. When we understand this Bible truth, we will wish deeply for Jesus to live in our hearts. We will feel hungry for His Spirit. We will want the joy that comes from His saving us. We will see our need for a new heart and a new life. We need the rest that only Jesus can give us. That is why God must make us new again. Then we can rest.

`Do you know the joy of being made free from sin? If no, then how can this story about David help you?`