---
title:  Rays Of Light 
date:  22/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

What do most of us want to do after we mess up and are forgiven? We want to forget the mistake ever happened, right? Thinking about our mistakes can be painful.

`What does David want to do with his painful experience? For the answer, read Psalm 51:13–19.`

When a bowl or vase breaks, we throw the pieces away. At least, that is what most people do. But in Japan, there are people who fix broken clay pots. This work has a special name: “kintsugi.” In kintsugi art, the artist uses gold or silver to glue the broken pieces back together. The artist makes a beautiful work of art from a broken pot.

God does the same thing with us. God forgives our sins and makes us new again. The forgiveness of God glues the pieces of our broken lives back together. The places where we were broken in the past show other people the love of God for us. We become living lights for God. Then we will want to shout with joy. We will join David in saying, “Let me sing about all the good things you do for me!” Psalm 51:14, ERV). We do not try to repair ourselves. Our hearts are now empty of all pride. God can fill our empty hearts with praise. Then our hearts will be the same as bright rays of light. The love of God will shine from our hearts to everyone we meet. Our experience of being forgiven leads other people to God who want His forgiveness too.

`What is the connection between Psalm 51 and 1 John 1:9?`

1 John 1:9 and Psalm 51 teach the same message. David knows that God “will gladly accept a heart that is broken because of sadness [feeling sad] over [because of] sin” (Psalm 51:17, NIrV). John tells us that “If we confess our sins, God will forgive us. We can trust God to do this. He always does what is right. He will make us clean from all the wrong things we have done” (1 John 1:9, ERV).

Again, David cannot fix the mess he made. He suffers because of his mistakes. At the same time, David knows that God forgives him.

`How can you make the promise in 1 John 1:9 a part of your life right now? How should you feel after you do?`