---
title:  Further Thought
date:  23/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“David feels sorry for his sin and turns away from it. His feeling is real. David does not try to make his sin look less awful than it really is. David prays for forgiveness. But his prayers do not come from a heart that is filled with a fear of being judged or a wish to escape punishment. David sees that his sin makes his heart very dirty. David hates his sin. That is why David does not pray only for forgiveness. David also asks God to make his heart clean. . . . God promises forgiveness to sinners who turn from sin. In these promises, David sees proof for the forgiveness of God. David sees that God will accept him again. . . . Psalm 51:16, 17.

“David fell into sin. But the Lord forgives him and gives him new life. . . .

“David empties his heart of all pride. He confesses his sin. Saul does not do this. Saul made his heart hard against God. Saul did not confess or turn from his sin.

“The sin of David shows us a powerful picture of the human heart. The human heart is weak. The wish to do wrong is strong. But the story of David also shows us an example of being sorry for sin and turning fully away from it. Many thousands of Christians have fallen into sin. The story of David has helped them. These sinners remembered how David turned from sin and confessed his wrong. . . . The story of David gives these Christians the courage to turn away from sin and to turn back to the law of God.

“So, we must empty our hearts of all pride. We must confess our sins. We must turn away from our sins with the help of the Holy Spirit. Then we may be sure that there is hope for us. . . . The Lord will not turn away one person who truly turns from sin and comes to Him.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 725, 726, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`We must accept by faith that we are the forgiven sons and daughters of the King of Heaven. How is it possible to live with this hope when we know we are sinners who need forgiveness?`

`Why is all sin really against God? What does it mean to sin against God?`

`Why does God allow suffering to happen? How does the worldwide war between God and Satan help answer this question?`

`Why do you think the Bible includes the story about David and Bathsheba?`

`Psalm 51:11, 12 shows us that sin separates us from God? What has been your own experience with how this happens? How did separation make you feel? Why is the promise of mercy and forgiveness from God our only hope?`