---
title:  Following the Bible
date:   20/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week's lesson
Philippians 2:12–16; Luke 4:4, 8, 10–12; John 5:45–47; Matthew 3:2, 8; Psalm 119:11.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Do what God’s teaching says; do not just listen and do nothing. When you only sit and listen, you are fooling yourselves” (James 1:22, ICB).

THE BEST PLAN for studying the Bible will not help us if we will not live by the truth we learn from the Bible. What is true about education also is true about studying the Bible. You learn best by doing what you learn. When we obey Bible truth, then God will give us many blessings. God will not give us these blessings if we do not take the time to obey what we learn. Our obedience will change our lives in exciting ways. It also will make us smart and wise. So, we must be willing to live what we learn from the Bible. Then our faith will grow strong. We will be powerful witnesses for Jesus too. Our lives will be in perfect harmony with the truth we share with other people.

We grow in wisdom and mercy when we read about Jesus. He is the best example. We must copy His life. He lived in full agreement with God’s plan.

This week we will study what it means to live by the Bible. We will look at what it means to let the Bible have the final say in how we live too.

_We grow in wisdom and mercy when we read about Jesus. He is the best example. We must copy His life._
