---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AND GOD’S LIVING WORD, THE BIBLE
date:   21/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

It is very important for us to study the Bible in the correct way. It is even more important that we do what we learn. The reason we study the Bible is not so we can get more knowledge. Yes, knowledge is wonderful. But our reason for studying the Bible is to let the Bible change our lives and our way of thinking. That is what really matters. What does it mean to live the truth that we have learned? It means we must be willing to do what the Bible says. This choice often includes a very deep fight with ourselves. Our fight is about who will control our thinking and our lives. In the end, there are only two sides we can choose: God’s side or Satan’s.

`Read Philippians 2:12–16. What are these verses saying about how we should live?`

Yes, God works in us. But He does so only by His Spirit. Also, only the Spirit gives us the wisdom to understand the Bible. As sinners, we often fight against God’s truth. If God leaves us to do things our way, we will not obey the Bible (Romans 1:25; Ephesians 4:17, 18). Without the Holy Spirit, we do not love God’s message. There is no hope, no trust, no love in our hearts. But by His Holy Spirit, God “is working in you. He helps you want to do what pleases him, and he gives you the power to do it” (Philippians 2:13, ERV).

The Holy Spirit is a Teacher. He leads us into a deeper understanding of the Bible. He wants us to feel joy in our study of the Bible. The Holy Spirit brings Bible truth to our minds. He gives us new understanding about those Bible truths. He changes our lives so that we show faith in God and loving obedience to His law. “No one can explain the Bible without the Holy Spirit’s help. So, you must study the Bible with a heart filled with no pride. You must be willing to learn too. Then God’s angels will be by your side. They will help you to accept Bible truth.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 411, adapted. 1 Corinthians 2:13, 14 (ERV), teaches us an important Bible rule: we must “use the Spirit’s words to explain spiritual truths.” Then we will follow God’s Word with joy. Isaiah 50:4, 5 (ERV), promises, “every morning he wakes me and teaches me like a student. The Lord God helps me learn.”

_“You must study the Bible with a heart filled with no pride. You must be willing to learn too. Then God’s angels will be by your side. They will help you to accept Bible truth.”_
