---
title:  LEARNING FROM JESUS
date:   22/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

There is no better example to follow than Jesus Christ. Jesus knew the Bible well. He was willing to follow its teachings and live by them.

`Read Luke 4:4, 8, 10–12. How does Jesus use the Bible to help Him say “No” to sin? What does this tell us about how important the Bible is to our faith?`

Jesus knew God’s Written Word, the Bible, very well. Jesus knew it so well that He memorized many verses. He could say these verses by heart. How did Jesus get to know the Bible so well? He spent a lot of time with God studying the Bible.

What if Jesus did not know the exact words of Bible verses and understand them clearly? Then Satan easily could have tricked Jesus. Even the devil said Bible verses and used them for his own sneaky reasons and evil plans. So, just being able to say Bible verses is not enough. We also need to know what else the Bible has to say about a topic. We need to know the correct meaning of the verse too. Then we will not be tricked by the devil. We will be able to fight against Satan’s attacks. Again and again, we read about Jesus opening the minds of His followers to understand the Bible. Jesus did this by telling His followers to do what the Bible says (Luke 24:45, 46; Matthew 11:10; John 6:45). Jesus knew that those who read the Bible can come to a correct understanding of Bible truth: “ ‘What is written in the law? What do you understand from it?’ ” (Luke 10:26, ERV). For Jesus, the truth written in the Bible is the rule we should live by.

In John 7:38, Jesus turned the attention of His followers back to the Bible. The Bible teaches us that Jesus is the Savior that God promised to send to this earth (John 5:39). Jesus Himself was willing to follow the Bible, the Written Word of God. If Jesus was willing to do that, what does that tell us that we should do too?

`What has been your own experience with using the Bible to fight against sin? When Satan tried to get you to sin, did you start reading the Bible or saying Bible verses? If yes, what happened when you did? What have you learned from that experience?`

_The Bible teaches us that Jesus is the Savior that God promised to send to this earth (John 5:39)._
