---
title:  DOES JESUS EVER DISAGREE WITH THE BIBLE?
date:   23/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read John 5:45–47. What powerful message does Jesus give us in these verses about His connection with the Bible?`

Some people say that Jesus often did not agree with the Old Testament. These people put Jesus’ words above the words of the Old Testament Bible.

In the New Testament, we read that Jesus said: “ ‘You have heard that it . . . But I tell you . . .’ ” (Matthew 5:43, 44, NLV; compare with Matthew 5:21, 22, 27, 28, 33, 34, 38, 39). Jesus said these famous words in the Sermon on the Mount. He was not trying to get rid of the Old Testament, as some Bible thinkers say. Then what was Jesus trying to do? Jesus wanted to show that some people in His day were using the Bible the wrong way. They were using it to say that it was OK to be mean to your enemies (read Matthew 5:43). But Jesus showed that God did not teach that at all.

So, Jesus did not throw out the Old Testament. He did not destroy its power. The Old Testament shows us who Jesus is. Jesus explained what God meant in the Old Testament. By doing so, Jesus added to the Old Testament’s power.

Sadly, people use Jesus’ words to say that the Bible does not have power over our lives anymore. Or they use Jesus’ words to say that some parts of the Bible were not written with the Holy Spirit’s help. These are very awful attacks against the Bible. Why? Because these attacks are done in the name of Jesus. We have Jesus’ example of how much power He gave to the Holy Bible. In His day, the Bible was made of the Old Testament only. This shows us enough proof about how we should view the Old Testament.

Jesus did not come to destroy the Bible at all. He always taught His followers to trust it. He taught them to depend on the Bible to guide their lives too. Jesus says this very thing on the Sermon on the Mount: “ ‘Don’t think that I have come to destroy the Law of Moses or the teaching of the prophets [special messengers]. I have come not to destroy their teachings but to give full meaning to them’ ” (Matthew 5:17, ERV). Then Jesus gives us this warning: “ ‘Whoever refuses to obey any command and teaches others [people] not to obey it will be the least important in God’s kingdom’ ” (Matthew 5:19, ERV).

_The Old Testament shows us who Jesus is._
