---
title:  QUIET TIMES WITH THE BIBLE
date:   24/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Our lives are often busy and filled with stress. Sometimes we need to work hard just to feed our families and pay our bills. Other times, we may have enough of everything we need. But we work harder than we need to because we want more and more. We want the things that we think will make us happy. But, as Solomon in the book of Ecclesiastes warns us, that does not always happen.

Whatever the reason, we can be very busy in our lives. So, it is easy to push God out of our lives. Often this happens because we do not spend enough time reading, praying, and coming closer to the Lord. “ ‘He is the One who has power over your life and everything you do’ ” (Daniel 5:23, ICB). We can be led away from God by other things. Then we fail to spend enough time with Him. We all need time to slow down and meet with our Savior. How can the Holy Spirit talk to us if we do not take the time to stop and hear what He has to say? The special quiet time with God is the secret to our spiritual life. Prayer and reading God’s Word make us strong.

`Read Psalm 37:7; Psalm 46:10; and Psalm 62:1, 2, 5. What do these verses teach us about our need for quiet time with God? Why is quiet time with God so important?`

If you love someone, you like to spend time alone with him or her. Choose a place where you can read the Bible and meet with God. It should be some place where no one will bother you. You will need to pick a special time to meet with God. Otherwise, the meeting may not happen. Often, the best time of day is in the morning. This time alone with God can become a blessing for the whole rest of your day. The thoughts you get from your time with God will help you during the many hours ahead. Do whatever you must do to make sure you can meet with God without anyone or anything stealing this time away from you.

Nothing will help you to connect with God the way that prayer and Bible study can. It will help you to think and behave the same as Jesus.

`How hard do you try to spend time alone with the Lord? What do you do when you spend time with Him? How has your experience been? How does spending time with God help you to know His love better?`

_Choose a place where you can read the Bible and meet with God._
