---
title:  BIBLE VERSES AND SONG
date:   25/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

“ ‘I have hidden your word in my heart so that I won’t sin against you’ ” (Psalm 119:11, NIrV).

We must “hide” God’s Word in our hearts. We need to learn Bible verses so well that we can say them without needing to read them from the Bible. Then we will know them forever. So, take time to hide God’s Word in your heart. Then God will bless you in many ways. These verses that we know so well will change our thinking and our behavior. They will help us to make better decisions. Hiding Bible verses in our hearts helps the Bible come to life in new ways. That is why it is so important for us to learn Bible verses so well that we can say them without looking at the Bible. Doing so will help us worship God and to live the way that the Bible tells us.

It is important for another reason to learn Bible verses word by word. These verses will keep us safe from Satan’s lies and traps. When we know Bible verses by heart, we will be able to say them even when we do not have a Bible with us. This can help us when Satan is trying his best to get us to sin. So, we must hide in our hearts God’s promises to us in the Bible. Then we will fix our minds on Bible truth, not on our problems. We will lift our thoughts to God. He has a thousand ways to help us when we see no help at all.

`Read what Paul says about singing in Ephesians 5:19 and Colossians 3:16. How can singing Bible verses help us to hide God’s Word in our hearts?`

We should learn to sing the words of the Bible. This can be a powerful way to learn verses. The beautiful songs will help make it easier for us to learn Bible verses. Also, when we sing Bible verse songs, then it helps us not to feel worried or sad. Even little children can learn to sing Bible verse songs. The Bible has led many musicians to write songs that help us to feel happy. These songs lead our thoughts to God and His Bible. This music is a wonderful blessing.

“Music is a part of the worship of God in heaven. We should try in our songs of praise to match the harmony in the songs that the angels sing.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 594, adapted.

_“Music is a part of the worship of God in heaven.”_
