---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   26/06/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**:

Read Ellen G. White, “The Privilege of Prayer,” pages 93–104, in Steps to Christ.

“The human eye on its own can never see the beauty of Jesus. We need the Holy Spirit’s help. The Spirit also helps us to see that we have no hope without Jesus. We need Jesus’ mercy and pardon. He is the One who took our sins on Himself. He fills our every need. Only the Holy Spirit can help us to understand Jesus’ endless mercy, His love, His kind heart, and His glory.”—Ellen G. White, The Upward Look, page 155, adapted.

“We can learn parts of the Bible, even whole chapters, by heart. Then we can say them when Satan comes to us and tries to get us to do what is wrong. . . . Satan will try to lead our minds to think about things of this earth and its pleasures. The best way to win the war against Satan during those times is by saying, ‘The Bible says.’ ”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, April 8, 1884, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. God gave us the gift of free choice. We do not have control over everything in our lives. But we are free to choose to accept God’s gift of everlasting life. What are you doing with the gift of free choice that God gave you? What spiritual choices are you making?`

`2. Think about the part that the Sabbath can and should have in giving us quiet time to spend with God. How does keeping the Sabbath protect you from working too much and doing things that stop you from spending time with God? How can you let the Sabbath become more of a spiritual blessing in your life?`

`3. What has been your experience in spending time alone with God in prayer and Bible study? How does this spiritual practice cause your faith to grow stronger? In class, talk about your own personal times with God. What have you learned from the time spent in prayer and study? How can your experience help other people grow stronger in their faith?`

`4. What are some of your favorite Bible verses that you have learned word by word? What is it about these verses that you like so much? How has “hiding” them in your heart been a blessing to you?`

_“The Spirit also helps us to see that we have no hope without Jesus.”_
