---
title:  A Day in Jesus’ Life
date:   06/07/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Mark 1:16–20; Mark 1:21–28; Mark 1:29–34; Mark 1:35–39; Mark 1:40–45.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Jesus said to them, ‘Come, follow me, and I will make you a different kind [type] of fishermen. You will bring in people, not fish’ ” (Mark 1:17, ERV).

Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John wrote about Jesus’ life. Each writer tells us how Jesus started His work for God. But each writer introduces the story in a different way.

Matthew tells us how Jesus chose His followers and then preached the Sermon on the Mountain.

Luke writes about how Jesus preached His first sermon during the Sabbath in a Jewish church in Nazareth.

John tells how Jesus invited some of His first followers to join Him. Then Jesus went to a wedding.

Mark tells the story about how Jesus invited four men to follow Him. Then Mark tells us about the things Jesus did on the Sabbath in Capernaum and what happened next.

Mark’s Sabbath story helps his readers understand Jesus better. In Mark 1, Mark writes about Jesus’ work after His baptism. Mark also writes a few words that Jesus says. Jesus invites some men to follow Him. He commands a demon to leave. Jesus talks about His plan to travel. Jesus heals a man with a skin disease and tells him to go show himself to the priest or spiritual leader. As you see, Mark is interested in telling us about what Jesus does, not what He says. So, Mark tells us that Jesus heals many people. Mark also likes to use the words “right away” (Mark 1:12, 18, 20, 28, 30, 31 [WE], 42 [NIrV]) to help us understand how fast Jesus worked.