---
title:  Follow Me
date:   07/07/2024
---

`Read Mark 1:16–20. Who did Jesus invite to follow Him? How did the men answer Jesus’ invitation?`

As we saw yesterday, Mark 1 doesn’t write much of the words that Jesus says. But Mark 1:17 tells us the words that Jesus says to two fishermen, Simon and Andrew, who are brothers. Later, Jesus will name Simon “Peter.” Simon and Andrew stand on the beach next to the Sea of Galilee. The men throw a net into the water to catch fish.

Mark doesn’t write about a fishing boat, which may show that Peter and Andrew don’t earn much money. In Mark 1:19, 20, James and John are in a boat with their father and some servants. Both the boat and the servants show us that James and John enjoyed more success than Peter and Andrew. But Luke tells us that, yes, Peter does have a boat. Luke also says that James and John were business partners with Peter and Andrew (read Luke 5:1–11). Maybe Mark doesn’t talk about a boat because he wants us to see that one set of brothers is rich and one set is poor. But Jesus invites both the poor and the rich to follow Him.

Jesus invites both pairs of the brothers to become His fol­lowers. Jesus tells Peter and Andrew that if they join Him, He will teach them to “catch” men, and not fish.

`Read the story in Mark 1:16–20. Why do you think Peter, Andrew, James, and John left everything they owned and followed Jesus right away?`

John gives us more information about the story (read John 1:29–42). The brothers followed John the Baptist. The men heard John announce that Jesus was “ ‘the Lamb of God. He takes away [removes] the sins of [from] the world [the people on the earth]!’ ” (John 1:29, ERV). Later, the brothers spent time with Jesus. What does this information tell us about the brothers? They don’t hurry to join Jesus. They carefully think about His invitation first.

So, why doesn’t Mark give us more information about the story? Maybe Mark wants to show us that Jesus’ invitation is powerful. Jesus invites the brothers to join Him. They say yes, and their lives are changed forever.

`What did you give up to follow Jesus? (What does your answer say about you if you can’t think of anything?)`