---
title:  A Sabbath Everyone Will Remember
date:   08/07/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 1:21–28. What happens in the Jewish church in Capernaum? What Bible truths do we learn from this story?`

Most Christians can tell you about an important ­spiritual experience in their lives. Maybe they will tell you about the time they decided to follow Jesus. Or the day they got baptized. Or they will tell you about a powerful sermon that made them feel that God was very close to their hearts. Many of these experiences are so powerful that we will always remember them. They can change our lives forever.

Maybe that’s how the people in Capernaum felt when they went to church and heard Jesus teach. “The people there were amazed at his teaching. He did not teach like [the same as] their teachers of the law. He taught like a person who had authority [skill and might]” (Mark 1:22, ICB). While Jesus taught, a man started to shout. A demon was inside the man. The demon shouted, “ ‘What do You want of [to do to] us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have [Did] You come to destroy us? I know Who You are. You are the Holy One of [from] God’ ” (Mark 1:24, NLV). Jesus commands the demon to leave.

Think about the demon’s words. What do they tell us?

First, the demon knows who Jesus is. Jesus is “the Holy One of [from] God.” We expect holy things in a church, and not things that are evil. This story shows us that the worldwide war between good and evil is real. People in the story may not know who Jesus is. But the demon knows.

Next, think about Jesus’ words to the demon. We can understand why Jesus commanded the demon to leave the man. But why did Jesus also tell the demon, “ ‘Do not talk!’ ” (Mark 1:25, NLV)? In this verse, Mark introduces us to an important idea: Jesus asks demons and people not to announce who He really is. Bible thinkers name this idea the Savior’s Secret.

Why doesn’t Jesus want people to tell anyone He is the Savior? Because the Jewish people expected the Savior to come to save them from the Romans, and not from sin. So, this false idea about the Savior made Jesus’ work hard and put Him in danger. As we’ll see, Jesus can’t hide who He really is. The truth about Jesus is the most important part of the Good News. People need to know who Jesus is. They also need to decide what His coming means for them.