---
title:  Jesus Heals on the Sabbath
date:   09/07/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 1:29–34. How did Jesus help Peter’s family? What spiritual lessons can we learn from this story?`

After Jesus finishes teaching, He leaves the church. A small group of followers goes with Him. This group included Peter, Andrew, James, and John. Jesus and His followers go to Peter’s house. There, they plan to spend the rest of the Sabbath day enjoying a friendly meal and fellowship.

But Jesus and His followers get some sad news. Peter’s mother-in-law is very sick with a fever. In those days, fevers killed people. If they didn’t get better, they died. Jesus goes to the sick woman’s bed and holds her hand. He lifts her up. Right away, she felt better. She gets up and serves Jesus and His followers. This story is a powerful example of an important Bible rule. Jesus saves and heals us so that we may serve other people!

In the Book of Mark, Jesus often heals with a touch (read Mark 1:41; Mark 5:41). At other times, Jesus heals people without touching them (read Mark 2:1–12; Mark 3:1–6; Mark 5:6–13).

Jesus’ work wasn’t finished. After sunset, many people came to Peter’s house for healing. For sure, they came because they saw or heard about the demon that Jesus threw out earlier at church on the Sabbath. Do you see that Mark doesn’t tell us that people didn’t come to see Jesus at Peter’s house because of the Sabbath? Mark expected his readers to know about the Sabbath already. This information shows us that Mark’s readers were Sabbath keepers.

Mark says that the whole city came to the door of Peter’s house that evening (Mark 1:33). For sure, Jesus must have spent a long time healing all those people.

“Hour after hour, people came and went. No one knew if the Healer would be there tomorrow. Jesus’ visit was the most exciting thing that happened in Capernaum. People praised God for His mercy. Joy filled Jesus’ heart. . . .

“Jesus didn’t stop working until He healed the last person there. When the crowd left, the time was very late. At last, Peter’s house was quiet. The long, exciting day was over. Jesus needed rest. But while the people in the city slept, the Savior went to a quiet place and prayed.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 259, adapted.