---
title:  The Secret of Jesus’ Success
date:   10/07/2024
---

`Read Mark 1:35–39. What does Mark tell us that Jesus did? What was Jesus’ secret that helped Him succeed?`

Jesus got up before sunrise and went to a quiet place where He could be alone and pray. Mark 1:35 shows us that praying is the most important action in this verse. Mark tells us that Jesus got up, went out, and left. All these verbs in the Greek show us finished actions. Jesus started doing these things and finished them. But the verb “to pray” in the Greek language is used to talk about something that happens again and again. So, Mark is really saying, ‘Jesus prayed and continued praying. He never stopped praying. He prayed all the time.’ Mark also tells us Jesus went out very early in the morning. Mark wants us to understand that Jesus spent much time alone in prayer.

Jesus is a Man of prayer (read Matthew 14:23; Mark 6:46; and John 17). Prayer is one of the secrets of Jesus’ success in His work for God.

`Read Luke 6:12. What does this verse teach us about Jesus’ prayer life?`

Some Christians pray only in the morning. Other Christians pray only at night. There is nothing wrong with praying at the same time each day. But we must be careful not to let our prayers become empty or the same as a chore we must do again and again. How can we give our prayers energy and new life? We can change the time of day when we pray. Or we can pray longer than usual at our regular prayer time. The most important thing to remember is you don’t need to pray the same way or the same time every day. You can change when and how you pray.

Peter and his companions don’t go with Jesus to His special place of prayer. Maybe Peter and his friends know the location, because they find Jesus there later. They tell Jesus that everyone is looking for Him. Their words show us what is in their hearts. The miracles that Jesus did the day before were very exciting. So, the followers thought that Jesus should continue healing and teaching the people. But Jesus’ answer is surprising. “Jesus said, ‘We must go to the next towns. I must tell the good news to the people there too. That is why I came here’ ” (Mark 1:38, WE).