---
title:  Can You Keep a Secret?
date:   11/07/2024
---

`Read Mark 1:40–45. What do these verses say about Jesus? How did Jesus show His love for the poor, the needy, and people the Jews thought weren’t important?`

The man who comes to Jesus has leprosy, or a skin disease. The man, or leper, believes that Jesus can make him clean. Leviticus 13 says lepers were dirty. So, the man must stay far away from people (Leviticus 13:45, 46).

The worst type of leprosy today is known as Hansen’s disease. The man may have had Hansen’s disease. Ellen G. White tells us the man’s disease was very bad: “The disease did awful things to the man’s body. His rotting skin was terrible and frightening to look at. When the people saw the leper, they were afraid. They pushed against each other to try to get away from the leper. . . . Jesus put His hand on the leper. Right away, the leper started to change. His skin and nerves healed. His muscles became firm. He could feel things again in his nerves. His hard, rough skin disap­peared. His skin had a soft glow, the same as a healthy child.”—_The Desire of Ages_, page 263, adapted.

Why did Jesus touch the leper? Mark tells us, “Jesus felt sorry for the man. So he touched him and said, ‘I want to heal you. Be healed!’ ” (Mark 1:41, ICB). The law of Moses says that this type of touch should have made Jesus dirty until evening. Moses said that anyone who touched something dirty must wash to become clean again (compare with Leviticus 13–15). But Mark tells us that Jesus’ touch heals the sick man and removes his leprosy. So, Jesus didn’t become dirty when He touched the man.

Jesus sends the man to a priest or spiritual leader. Jesus tells the man to give the offerings that Moses commanded in Leviticus 14. Again and again, Mark will show that Jesus supports Moses’ teachings (Mark 7:10; Mark 10:3, 4; Mark 12:26, 29–31). Compare Jesus and His support for the law with the actions of the Jewish leaders. In Mark 7, 10, and 12, the leaders break Moses’ law. The disagreement over the law between Jesus and the Jewish leaders explains why Jesus commanded the leper, in Mark 1:44, not to tell anyone that Jesus healed him. Jesus knows that the priests are angry with Him. So, they may lie and say that the leper is not really healed. But the leper doesn’t obey Jesus. The leper tells everyone that Jesus healed him. Soon, Jesus can no longer enter the towns to do God’s work anymore.