---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   12/07/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “At Capernaum” and “Thou Canst Make Me Clean,” pages 252–266, in _The Desire of Ages_.

What picture of Jesus does Mark 1 show us? We see that Jesus has the power to invite men to follow Him. They accept the invitation. Jesus is holy. He is not evil as are the angels who serve Satan. A worldwide war is happening between good and evil. Jesus has more power than the demons. Jesus feels pity for sick people. Jesus helps them. He ­touches them when no one else will touch them.

“Jesus taught in the Jewish church. Jesus talked about the kingdom He came to start. Jesus said His job was to make prisoners of Satan become free again. Just then a cry of fear stopped Jesus in the middle of His sermon. A madman rushed from the crowd to Jesus. The man shouted, ‘What do You want of [from] us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have [did] You come to destroy us? I know Who You are. You are the Holy One of [sent from] God” (Mark 1:24, NLV).

“The people in the church became confused and afraid. They stopped paying attention to Jesus and His sermon. Satan didn’t want people to listen to Jesus. So, Satan led this madman to the church to cause trouble. But . . . ‘Jesus spoke sharp [strong] words to the demon and said, “Do not talk! Come out of the man!” The demon threw the man down and gave a loud cry. Then he came out of him’ (Mark 1:25, 26, NLV). . . . Jesus won the fight against Satan in the desert. Now He stood face-to-face with His enemy again. The demon used all his power to keep the madman under his control. If the demon lost control of the man, Jesus won. . . . But the Savior spoke with strength and might. He made the man free from the demon’s control.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, pages 255, 256, adapted.

Mark also shows us that Jesus was very busy. He moved from place to place. He met many people. How did Jesus get so much work done? How did He stay so calm? For sure, His daily experience of prayer was the secret of His success.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why is prayer so important in the Christian life?`

`Who are the “lepers” in modern times? In Jesus’ day, lepers had terrible skin diseases. People avoided them. How can your church use the Good News to “touch” the hearts and lives of these modern lepers?`