---
title:  Transcending Potluck
date:  15/07/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 3**

**Transcending Potluck**

People around the world today are divided according to things like race, politics, and vaccination status. This proclivity for divisiveness stretches all the way back to the Garden of Eden, for the first thing Adam and Eve did after they fell was attack each other: Adam blamed Eve, and Eve blamed the snake (Gen. 3:12, 13). Sadly, we hear of such divisions in the home and church too, for fallen humans can almost always find a reason to be divided. Who hasn’t heard of arguments regarding music styles, ordination, and the color of the church carpet?

The name of the peace or fellowship offering is related to the Hebrew word shalom, which means “peace” or “well-being.” This offering, found in Leviticus 3 and 7, is a strong reminder to live in peace and fellowship with one another. The sweet peace we have with God through Jesus should inspire us to seek peace with each other. God wants us to press together in these last days, not pull apart (Heb. 10:25).

The fellowship offering was the only offering that allowed the offeror to eat part of the sacrifice. The offeror, out of thanksgiving or because of a vow, brought a sacrifice to the temple, where it would be divided three ways: God received the fat of the offering burned on the altar, the priest received the breast and shoulder, and the offeror received whatever was left (Lev. 3:16; 7:14, 15, 31, 34). The offeror shared this meal with his family and with others connected to his household. The Israelites were required to eat this ritual meal at God’s appointed place near the tabernacle (Deut. 12:6, 7, 17, 18). This shared meal was a time of rejoicing. The meal celebrated a close connection with God and a tight fellowship with one another. God deeply values fellowship and peace among His people.

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 3 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Leviticus 3:16, 17. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `