---
title:  Full Fellowship
date:  16/07/2023
---

#### inGest

Of all the offerings in Leviticus, the peace offering is the only one for which the instructions contain no promise of forgiveness or atonement. They mention nothing about sin, illustrating the dynamics of God’s love that go beyond dealing with the sin problem. This offering is a testimony of God’s desire for a personal connection with us. The whole ceremony is a divine invitation to be in close communion with God.

The peace offering was also the only one in which the person making the sacrifice partook of the meal. This meal was divided into three parts: God received the fat of the offering, burned on the altar “as food” (Lev. 3:11, 16), the priest received the breast and right thigh (Lev. 7:31–34), and the offeror received whatever was left (Lev. 7:15, 16). This was no casual meal, but a sacred ceremony, holy to the Lord. It was so serious and important that anybody who disregarded the ceremonial guidelines was to be cut off from God’s people (Lev. 7:20, 21).

A person could have various motivations for bringing a peace offering, and specific instructions were given to those who brought a peace offering because of a vow or as a voluntary gift (Lev. 7:16). However, the peace offering was designed to be an expression of thanksgiving to God (Lev. 7:11–15), a fact supported by how Leviticus sometimes refers to this offering as the “sacrifice of thanksgiving” (Lev. 7:12, 13; 22:29).

Perhaps the kind of worship dynamic exemplified by the peace offering is the experience missing for many believers and churches today. Perhaps a lack of thanksgiving and praise has too often robbed us of real companionship with God. What if God is just waiting, longing for willing participants who will embrace the kind of fellowship with God that the ceremony of the peace offering promises?

The New Testament writer John could think of nothing more desirable than the people in his churches enjoying the rich fellowship with God that is possible only through Jesus (1 John 1:3, 4). Today God is looking for people who will prioritize fellowship with Him above every other connection in the world.

Communion with God requires a certain withdrawal from communion with the world, for the allegiance to God that is symbolized by the peace offering does not mix with any allegiance to the world (1 Cor. 10:21). This offering showed that a person was committed to their relationship with the Lord and to excluding every false god. There are endless connections in the world that beg to supplant a deep connection with God. The ancient Israelites could have done nothing more incongruent, more scandalous, and more hurtful than when they bowed to a golden calf very shortly after offering burnt offerings and peace offerings to God (Exod. 32:5–8). The peace offering is a pledge of wholehearted devotion to the Lord.

Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.

` `

`How is full fellowship missing in your life? Or how are you experiencing full fellowship with God?`