---
title:  The Bridge Over Social Distance
date:  17/07/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Interestingly, the fellowship or peace offering meal was time-sensitive; the offeror and his or her family (as well as the priest) had to eat the food on the same day if it was a thanksgiving offering and within two days if it was a vow or freewill offering (Lev. 7:15, 16). This was, of course, for health reasons, but it was also to encourage the offeror to gather the family together quickly to consume all the allotted meat from the goat, lamb, or cow that was sacrificed. There is a subtle but crucial lesson in this: Discord should never be allowed to fester. Hard feelings and misunderstandings should be quickly confronted and cleared up (see also Eph. 4:26). Make things right quickly, unite over a meal if necessary, but don’t ignore the issues and hope they go away. They most certainly will not!

If parents want to get connected or stay connected with their children, they should share at least one fellowship meal with them every day. This means no television, no cell phones; just sitting around the table hearing about each other’s day—the challenges, joys, and heartaches. This may be the most important activity a family does together. Although it is not easy to do this consistently, it can be done, and the rewards are fellowship and peace with the ones you love.

People need fellowship with one another; it’s a psychological need. For many months, people around the world were told to “social distance” from each other. Of course, this was for their good so that they did not catch the COVID virus, but in retrospect, we should have called it something else. Perhaps “physical distancing” would’ve been a better name—anything but social distancing. In the vacuum created by socially distancing ourselves from each other, we saw massive increases in violence, racial discord, political hatred, depression, and suicide.

When we think about God, we often imagine Him as a white-haired old man living “upstairs,” separate from us in every way, but God is actually very youthful and has at least one characteristic in common with the younger generation living today: He is a social being! He loves fellowship and wants us to have fulfilling relationships with not only each other but with Him as well. This is why the fellowship offering was both vertical and horizontal: those who participated shared a meal with not only each other (horizontal) but with God, too (vertical).

One last thing about this offering: the offeror was the one who initiated the fellowship. In other words, the individual who brought the sacrifice was the one who brought others together in peace and fellowship. We live in a world in which everyone wants everyone else to be the one to initiate reconciliation, forgiveness, peace, and fellowship, but as recipients of Jesus’ grace, we must be the first to initiate fellowship—not the other person. God has called us to be initiators who represent Christ Himself.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Unlike other relationships, how does and how can spiritual fellowship endure through external circumstances (such as a pandemic)?`