---
title:  The Kingdom of Peacemakers
date:  19/07/2023
---

#### inVite

As with all the offerings in Leviticus, the fellowship offering pointed to the coming Messiah, Jesus. It was through His shed blood at Calvary that we experience peace not only with each other but with God as well. No wonder the fellowship offering in Leviticus 3 required a sacrifice. God wanted His people to know that all well-being, peace, unity, and warmhearted fellowship are results of the cross. God will have a people who will not allow themselves to be divided by color, culture, community, or country. These people will press together in Christian love and allow the cross of Christ to do its work of tearing down “the middle wall of separation” between all believers (Eph. 2:14). We can understand why Paul called the message of the cross a “mystery,” especially when we consider how divided the world is today!

Interestingly, the fellowship offerings find its way into modern churches through the communion service. The thirteenth Sabbath is often reserved for communion in Adventist churches. This is a special time for the church to gather in solidarity and fellowship around the symbols of the body and blood of Christ. Communion is a time when the church, local and global alike, shares a small meal in peace and fellowship. As we stare at the cross and observe all Jesus has done for us—how He crossed over into our cultures and communities and was victimized by us and yet returned our mistreatment with boundless grace and love, we are convicted and moved to change the way we relate to others, even to those deemed “our enemies.”

As offerors laid their hand upon the fellowship offering and killed it, they were given an opportunity to look into the future and see the amazing sacrifice Jesus made to bring us all together in fellowship (see Eph. 2:13). We pursue peace and fellowship with each other because of the cross and the example our Savior gave us. Notice that the Bible does not say, “Blessed are the peacekeepers”; it says, “Blessed are the peacemakers” (Matt. 5:9)! In other words, peace and fellowship with others, especially with those within the body of Christ, requires effort. In fact, Matthew 5:23, 24 says to leave your offering at the altar (probably a reference to the fellowship offering) if you have an issue with someone and be reconciled to them. Like Jesus, who laid down everything in order to bring us atonement (forgiveness, peace, and right standing with God through His blood), Christians are to do everything they can to be at peace with each other (Rom. 12:18). This, of course, does not mean everyone will appreciate our efforts or respond in kind, but this is to be our objective whether it is reciprocated or not.

Jesus is the burnt offering, the grain offering, and the fellowship offering! He is the One who gave everything for us and was crushed and beaten like fine flour for our sins, and He is the reason we have been restored to fellowship with each other and with God. Why should we be reconciled to others? Because Jesus reconciled us to Himself! Why should we forgive and love others? Because Jesus first loved and forgave us! Jesus is our motivation to sit at a fellowship meal with each other. The emulsifying power of the cross can make our unity with one another permanent—not superficial, but eternal; not temporal, but authentic! Jesus put it beautifully when He said, “They will know you are My disciples by your love” (John 13:35, paraphrased).

**Meditate on Leviticus 3 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`Where are areas in your life where the fellowship of love and peace needs to be manifested?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`