---
title:  Further Thought
date:  11/12/2020
---

Genesis 3, Ecclesiastes 2:18–23, Ephesians 6:5–8; Read Ellen G. White, “The Temptation and Fall,” pp. 52–62, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

Work—a curse or blessing? It seemed to come as part of the curse of sin (Gen. 3:17). A closer reading reveals it was the ground that was cursed, and not the work. Ellen G. White states that God intended this commission to work as a blessing: “The life of toil and care which was henceforth to be man’s lot was appointed in love. It was a discipline rendered needful by his sin, to place a check upon the indulgence of appetite and passion, to develop habits of self-control. It was a part of God’s great plan for man’s recovery from the ruin and degradation of sin.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 60. Might we perhaps have made it a curse through monotony, overwork, or overvaluing its role in our lives? Whatever our situation, we must learn to put work in its proper perspective. And Christian education must help train people to learn the value of work, while at the same time not making an idol out of it.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read Ecclesiastes 2:18–24. How can Solomon consider work both a blessing and a curse in the same section of the Bible? What are hints in the text about what can make the difference in how we approach our work?`

`It is through work that we care for (nurture) our families. How can we pass on a positive attitude about work to our families?`

`The line between doing an excellent job and being a workaholic is sometimes a fine one. How do we keep from crossing that line? See Eccles. 2:23.`

`Paul stated very clearly: “For even when we were with you, we commanded you this: If anyone will not work, neither shall he eat” (2 Thess. 3:10, NKJV). This principle, of course, makes great sense. What might be some examples where it doesn’t apply? That is, why must we be sure not to make this an ironclad rule that must never be broken?`