---
title: An Open Door to Anyone Who Knocks
date: 03/08/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Luke
10:25–37**

**An Open Door to Anyone
Who Knocks**

During World War II, a Dutch woman named Corrie ten Boom lived with her family in Haarlem, Netherlands. As devout Christians, the ten Boom family recognized it was their duty and privilege to care for Jews and others who had come under great threat. They opened their home and took in as many as they could. They prepared a secret room for the Jews and resistance workers to hide in during raids. On February 28, 1944, a Dutch informant reported the ten Booms’ work to the Nazis. That same day, the entire ten Boom family was arrested. They were sent to Scheveningen Prison, but the six people hidden by the ten Booms remained undiscovered. Corrie later recounted a conversation between the Gestapo chief and her old, ailing father.

The Gestapo chief leaned forward. “I’d like to send you home, old fellow,” he said. “I’ll take your word that you won’t cause any more trouble.” I could not see Father’s face, only the erect carriage of his shoulders and the halo of white hair above them. But I heard his answer. “If I go home today,” he said evenly and clearly, “tomorrow I  will open my door again to any man in need who knocks.” (Corrie ten Boom and John and Elizabeth Sherrill, The Hiding Place: The Triumphant True Story of Corrie Ten Boom [1974], 137, 138)

Shortly after Corrie’s father died, Corrie and her sister Betsie were sent to the Ravensbrück concentration camp, a women’s labor camp in Germany. Betsie died at Ravensbrück, but Corrie returned to the Netherlands after the war. She started a rehabilitation center in Bloemendaal that housed concentration camp survivors and sheltered jobless Dutch people who had collaborated with the Germans during the occupation. Corrie went on to travel the world as a public speaker and wrote many books.

Her life was marked by love for her neighbor. She understood her neighbor to be anyone in need of the caring, loving, forgiving, and restoring power of God. In this lesson, we will look at one of Jesus’ parables that certainly inspired Corrie, and thousands of others, to live a selfless life of service.

#### inScribe

Write out Luke 10:25–37 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `