---
title: Who Is My Neighbor?
date: 04/08/2024
---

#### inGest

An exchange between Jesus and a certain lawyer prompted the parable of the good Samaritan. The lawyer asked Jesus what he must do to receive eternal life. Jesus responded with His own questions: “What is written in the law? What is your reading of it?” (Luke 10:26). The lawyer answered from one of the best-known passages of the Old Testament, often referred to by Jewish rabbis as the Shema: “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength” (Deut. 6:5). This command was at the very center of Jewish thought and worship. The lawyer connected this teaching with another teaching we find in Leviticus 19:18, which says, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” Jesus strongly affirmed that the commands to love God and love our neighbor are the way to the abundant life to which God has called us. Loving others is the path to eternal life, not because we earn our way to heaven but because God’s transforming power fills us with a love that extends to our Creator and to those He created. In another passage, Jesus made it clear that His entire law (the Ten Commandments) is summed up in these two commands (Matt. 22:37–40).

However, in Jesus’ days, the religious leaders had an ongoing debate as to who their neighbor was. They often interpreted Leviticus 19 to refer exclusively to the Jews, especially those whom they perceived to be blessed by God with health and wealth. The lawyer, wanting to justify himself, asked Jesus, “Who is my neighbor?” (Luke 10:29). Jesus replied by telling the story of “a certain man” (v. 30) in a desperate situation. It’s important to note that Jesus never identified the class or nationality of this man. We know nothing about his social status in life. We know only that he needed help. The fact that Jesus did not identify the wounded man is brilliant! Jesus was pointing to the fact that our neighbor is the very person who needs our help and love, no matter who they are or where they come from.

Jesus continued the parable by turning the tables as the ones who were expected to help (i.e., the priest and Levite) didn’t extend a loving hand while the one who was least expected to help (i.e., the Samaritan) reached out to the man in need. The lawyer who asked Jesus the question was a religious person who had studied the Torah. He may have had priestly duties as well, and in this case, he very likely recognized himself in the story. The term “neighbor” suddenly took on a whole new meaning for him. Scripture says he came to test Jesus (Luke 10:25), but the lawyer ended up being tested instead. All who come to Jesus are confronted with an increased sense of responsibility toward those in need.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What questions do we sometimes ask to excuse ourselves from our responsibilities?`

`How has Jesus changed your sense of responsibility toward others?`