---
title: Status Versus Compassion
date: 05/08/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Just as Jesus intentionally did not identify the wounded man in the parable, so He intentionally identified the Samaritan. Again, Jesus turned the tables, emphasizing the least expected outcome of the story. Jesus made the most hated person of the day the hero of the parable! We are not told why the priest and Levite passed by the man who was clearly in desperate need. Their decisions might have been related to their perception of defilement—if they touched a dead person, they could not perform religious services or duties. It seems they chose to maintain their status over the clear duty before them. A guise of religiosity often prevented the religious leaders in Jesus’ day from truly meeting the people’s needs. A false narrative had emerged that one could neglect certain peoples’ needs while being committed to loving and serving God—two realities that can never coexist in the same person.

Jesus chose a Samaritan as the hero of the parable for a reason. The Jews hated Samaritans. Their rivalry went back for centuries. Between 800 and 700 B.C., the Assyrian empire conquered Israel and deported many people from the ten northern tribes. Assyria followed the custom of populating conquered countries with people from other nations. The Israelites who remained in the land married the Gentiles who were brought there, resulting in a mixed race and a mixed religion. This produced syncretism comprised of pagan worship and Judaism. Since the Samaritans were banned from the temple in Jerusalem, they built their own temple about fifty miles north of Jerusalem on Mount Gerizim. They considered it a sacred site as they believed God revealed Himself to Abraham and Isaac at Mount Gerizim, rather than Mount Moriah in Jerusalem, where the Jewish temple had been built. This historical context explains the conversation between Jesus and the Samaritan woman at the well in John 4. The woman challenged Jesus regarding the right place to worship. Jesus shifted the conversation to the spirit of worship: “But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth; for the Father is seeking such to worship Him. God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth” (John 4:23, 24). Jesus knew that true worship by true worshipers would lead to unity. He had come to break down the wall separating the Jews and Samaritans. The first time Jesus revealed Himself as the promised Messiah was to the Samaritan woman.

Through the parable of the good Samaritan, Jesus redirected the focus from status to character. The priest and Levite had status but no compassion. The good Samaritan had no status, at least in the eyes of the Jews, but he had compassion. We see a stark contrast between a profession of religion and a practice of it. Jesus is calling us to serve with compassion. “Wherever there is an impulse of love and sympathy, wherever the heart reaches out to bless and uplift others, there is revealed the working of God’s Holy Spirit” (Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons [1900], 385).

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can a desire for status hinder us from serving others today? How can we combat this desire?`