---
title: Giving Freely
date: 07/08/2024
---

#### inVite

During Jesus’ public ministry, the religious authorities often ridiculed Him. At one point, when they especially wanted to discredit Him, they called Him a Samaritan. “Then the Jews answered and said to Him, ‘Do we not say rightly that You are a Samaritan and have a demon?’ ” (John 8:48). This, of course, was a false accusation, as Jesus was not a Samaritan and certainly did not have a demon. However, these words reveal the Jewish leaders’ animosity toward both Jesus and the Samaritans. Paradoxically, in the parable of the good Samaritan, we have a picture of Jesus’ ministry. The priest and Levite do not reveal Jesus’ love, but the good Samaritan does. What he did on a small scale, Jesus did on a large scale. Jesus came to seek and save the lost (Luke 19:10). Jesus was always looking for the marginalized and downtrodden in society. His life answered the question, “Who is my neighbor?” Jesus came to serve, and this included absolutely everyone.

When the good Samaritan saw the wounded man, he had compassion. His compassion was not merely a feeling; it led him to action. The parable details what he did for the wounded man: “So he went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine; and he set him on his own animal, brought him to an inn, and took care of him. On the next day, when he departed, he took out two denarii, gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, ‘Take care of him; and whatever more you spend, when I come again, I will repay you’ ” (Luke 10:34, 35). The good Samaritan provided help that cost him money and inconvenienced him. He poured oil and wine on the man’s wounds. Using his own animal, he transported the man to an inn. He paid the innkeeper and promised to pay any additional bills connected to the wounded man’s stay. This was not just a minor inconvenience. The Samaritan went well out of his way to provide all the help that was needed. Through the entire ordeal, there was no suggestion of reimbursement from the wounded man. There was no reciprocal arrangement.

As the good Samaritan in this story paid the expenses for someone who was unable to repay him, so Jesus gave His life for people who are unable to repay Him. Jesus gave freely without immediately seeing the results of His enormous sacrifice. In the book of Romans, the apostle Paul writes, “For when we were still without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die; yet perhaps for a good man someone would even dare to die. But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us” (Rom. 5:6–8). With no guarantee that we would reciprocate His love, Jesus gave all for us.

`Do giving and service mean more when they cause inconvenience? Why or why not?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you personally through the text of the week?`

`Prayer Response:`