---
title:  Battling a Defeated Enemy
date:  11/05/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Job 1, 2**

**Battling a Defeated Enemy**

On May 8, 1945, the German command officially surrendered to the Allied forces, which historians traditionally hold as the end of World War II in Europe. However, despite the surrender, some German troops continued to resist. One example is the Battle of Slivice, which occurred in Czechoslovakia from the eleventh to the twelfth of May in 1945. During this battle, Czech partisans and Soviet Red Army troops faced off against a remnant of the German Army. The Battle of Slivice, one of the last major battles on European ground in World War II, ended with the German forces’ defeat.

Looking at the greater cosmic conflict between Christ and Satan, the Bible is clear that Jesus has already won the war. However, similar to the Battle of Slivice, there are still daily battles being waged in every human being’s life. The victory over Satan was established at the cross, but the effects will not be fully realized until we see a “new heaven and a new earth,” after the first heaven and earth have “passed away” (Rev. 21:1). For now, suffering, pain, death, and evil abound in this world.

Though we know “an enemy has done this” (Matt. 13:28), having to deal with Satan’s attacks and the effects of sin, regardless of their shape or form, can be challenging. Why does God allow the pain? How are we to handle it, and in what way can understanding the metanarrative of the great controversy be helpful in dealing with this suffering? We will be exploring these questions and themes in this week’s lesson.

#### inScribe

Write out Job 1, 2 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Job 1:18–22. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._