---
title:  Rules of Engagement
date:  12/05/2024
---

#### inGest

Tragedy and suffering are universal realities for all humans. Not everyone experiences the same intensity of hurt and sorrow, but no one is immune to it. Many of life’s most painful challenges have to do with the debilitating effects of sin on human beings: a shortened lifespan, decay, sickness, disease, and overall degeneration of the mind and body. Other problems we face stem from the evil choices that people around us make; violence and abuse are committed all the time. Some pain is self-inflicted, the direct consequence of one’s own choices.

The book of Job opens yet a wider dimension regarding the causes of pain and suffering. It portrays a grand cosmic warfare between good and evil that plays out in our personal lives. In Job 1 we see that Satan, having asserted himself as ruler over the earth, presented himself as a delegate to a certain celestial meeting. In a conversation with God, he argued that Job, a faithful, wealthy businessman and philanthropist, was only loyal to God because God blessed him. In other words, Satan claimed that God was bribing His people into obedience; that they were loyal to Him only so long as life was good. God did not need to prove Himself; as the Omniscient One, He knows all things as they truly are, but for the sake of this council meeting, the representatives of other planets, and all future readers of this story, He allowed Job’s life to serve as a radical example of how God never forces nor manipulates anyone into serving Him.

After being granted access to Job’s wealth and family, Satan wreaked absolute havoc, destroying Job’s possessions and killing his servants and even his children. Through it all, Job’s trust in God remained steadfast. Satan then claimed that Job would indeed curse God if only God removed protection over Job’s own body. When God acquiesced, Satan tormented Job with disease and awful pain, amplified by the disapproval and harsh rejection of his wife and friends.

The text suggests that the great controversy, portrayed here as a public dispute between the two parties, is playing out in the context of a court scene and must therefore follow certain rules of engagement that are not always understood or known to the human(s) involved. The first two chapters of Job show a negotiation between Satan and God, which suggests that what the two sides can and cannot do may vary depending on the circumstances. The rules may change, depending at least in part on where the person’s loyalties lie. If the individuals are believers, God has certain rights to and claims over them; if not, Satan stakes his claims.

How does knowing this help us in our suffering? It may not help alleviate the pain, but understanding the larger picture can give purpose to the pain and tragedy that’s not self-induced. One of the most powerful parts of this story is that Job did not have the privilege of seeing behind the curtain, and yet “in all this Job did not sin nor charge God with wrong” (Job 1:22). Even when we only have a limited view of what is happening, we can choose to trust God with the things we do not understand.

Journal:

`What does the great controversy mean to you?`

`Do you have enough evidence of God’s goodness that you can live with some unanswered questions?`