---
title:  Have You Considered My Servant [Your Name]?
date:  13/05/2024
---

#### inTerpret

It’s a blessing to be known, loved, and appreciated by those closest to you, but it’s another level entirely when the mighty Creator God of the universe, who’s fully aware of every being, every star, and every atom, not only acknowledges you but considers you worth bragging about! “Have you considered My servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, one who fears God and shuns evil?” (Job 1:8).

Job trusted that God loved Him, even when he felt abandoned. It wasn’t until the end of the book of Job that God restored his losses and vindicated him before his friends. Job had certainly upheld a covenant relationship with God for many years and had a good understanding of His love and grace, but there’s no indication that Job ever learned the story behind the inordinate amount of suffering he went through. If anything, Job felt that God was treating him like an “enemy” (Job 13:24), the same as the wicked (9:20–22). In a very real sense, Job struggled with feeling that perhaps God was ignoring him and had perhaps even wronged him (19:6, 7). He didn’t understand why he had to endure such intense pain. Though he pondered various hypothetical scenarios in his quest to find meaning, nothing made real sense in the end. The only truth that really mattered was that God cared deeply about Job. He prevailed because he continued to trust that truth.

When we go through seasons of suffering and fail to find an explanation for what’s happening, we may come up with our own theories about God and how He feels about us. It is, of course, best to stick with what the Bible says about God and not go forward with mere assumptions. What Job didn’t realize amid the pain, and what we often forget as well, is that there’s a story unfolding that reaches far beyond just ours. It’s also important to note that God is not threatened by our questions or feelings of pain as expressed by Job. God invites us to pour out our hearts to Him, including moments of sorrow and questioning.

When a computer enlarges a picture so much that only four square pixels are visible on the screen, it’s very difficult to guess what the rest of the picture shows. Four pixels is far too little information to piece together the picture in its entirety. In our lives, we often only see four pixels at a time. In those moments, we have to trust that God sees the bigger picture and knows what’s best. While we may not understand the why of our pain and loss in the moment, we cannot give in to the temptation to change what we know to be true about God. You may not always feel it, but God does care deeply about you. He will bring the pain to an end, just as He did with Job. “God will wipe away every tear from their eyes; there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away” (Rev. 21:4).

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can we develop a strong faith in times of relative ease so we can withstand the hard times to come?`