---
title:  Though He Slay Me, I Will Trust Him
date:  15/05/2024
---

#### inVite

If we had to endure Job’s lot, many of us would likely heed his wife’s counsel to “curse God and die!” (Job 2:9). Enduring trials of such magnitude is not easy, to say the least. Yes, we can find solace in knowing that this is all temporary, that the great controversy is real, and that all things will eventually get better, but this does not alleviate the pain when we’re in the middle of it.

After Satan’s first wave of attacks, Job said, “The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord” (Job 1:21). After the second wave, his response was, “Shall we indeed accept good from God, and shall we not accept adversity?” (Job 2:10). In other words: “I trust God. He knows what He’s doing, and He has the right to do this.”

Throughout the discussion with his friends, we see Job trying to make sense of everything he was experiencing. He even questioned God at times, but his trust in God remained strong, knowing that Jesus was His Savior: “For I know that my Redeemer lives” (Job 19:25).

One of Job’s most powerful statements of faith is found in Job 13:15: “Though He slay me, yet will I trust Him.” The faith expressed here may be foolish from a human perspective, but the implications are powerful. This deep level of trust reflects Jesus’ faith and strikes a major blow against Satan’s claims. On the cross, Christ felt like the Father had abandoned Him as He carried the sins of the world. He could not see the hope of the resurrection, but He remained hanging, trusting in the Father’s faithfulness, which, again, He could neither see nor feel.

Even though it seemed like God was raining curses down on him, Job knew from his years of walking with the Lord that He is good and trustworthy in every moment, even those in which it doesn’t feel that way. Furthermore, when God provided no answer to Job’s questioning other than to point out that there are things too big for humans to understand, Job’s relentless trust in God was again displayed when he finally said, “I... repent in dust and ashes” (Job 42:6) and submitted to the Lord on the basis of trust, not reason.

The key to endurance in times of pain is to get to know Jesus in times of wellbeing. Yes, the valley of the shadow of death may temporarily block our ability to feel His presence, but we can be sure that He will always be with us. With Job we can say, “When He has tested me, I shall come forth as gold” (Job 23:10).

Journal:

`Meditate on Job 1, 2 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How well do you know Jesus? Is it mostly facts about Him, or do you know Him through your experiences?`

`How do you see Jesus differently in the light of this week’s lesson?`