---
title:  inGest
date:   27/07/2026
---

### It’s to Your Advantage

Jesus continued to tell His disciples of His soon departure. Once again, He emphasized that it was a good thing. At that time, they definitely disagreed. Imagine being a disciple who had spent the past three and a half years being an eyewitness to Jesus’ miracles and hearing all His best sermons and teachings. Imagine being a right-hand helper to Jesus in stressful situations as well as more relaxed settings. You know Jesus as a teacher, a friend, and a companion. How would you respond when Jesus tells you He’s leaving you? Would you believe His promise that you’ll be better off after He leaves? Even the most faithful disciple would be challenged to accept this change of events and hope for better days ahead.

Christ’s statement that “It is to your advantage that I go away” (John 16:7) challenges us today as much as it challenged the disciples. If His promise is still true, believers today have more advantages than the original disciples who saw, heard, and touched Jesus. This promise means that those who were in Christ’s physical presence and witnessed firsthand His miracles had fewer advantages than we have today. However, it’s true only to the extent that we experience the promise, presence, and power of the Holy Spirit.

The Holy Spirit convicts, teaches, guides, and comforts on a personal level and a global level far beyond the limits of Christ’s earthly ministry. The early believers received the Holy Spirit’s power soon after Jesus’ ascension when the Holy Spirit empowered the New Testament church to carry the gospel to the world. After the outpouring of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost, the large number of new converts multiplied and grew far beyond the crowds that were reached during Christ’s three and a half years of ministry. The book of Acts records many mighty works done by the believers as they reached the world for Christ.

The Holy Spirit is just as available to Christ’s followers today as in the apostles’ days. Every believer should pray and seek a fresh outpouring of the Holy Spirit every day. We may wish we were one of the original disciples who walked and talked with Jesus, but we can accept that with the Holy Spirit we are in a better place than they were. We do not appreciate and expect the promise of the Holy Spirit as we should. What a precious gift from heaven can be ours!

**Questions to consider:**

`Can you think of other ways today’s generation has greater spiritual advantages than the disciples had in Christ’s presence two thousand years ago?`