---
title:  inTerpret
date:   28/07/2026
---

### Directional Pain

Jesus had been warning the disciples for some time that He was leaving. Earlier in this chapter, He framed it as a good thing—something that, at first glance, might not seem so bad. However, as He continued this frank discussion in verses 16–24, He made it clear that the ordeal would be incredibly difficult. So difficult, in fact, that He compared it to the pain of childbirth—an intense experience whose magnitude cannot be understood before experiencing it.

In His use of this analogy, Jesus did not primarily emphasize the pain His followers would endure—though that pain is real. He used the experience of childbirth to teach a profound truth: this pain is directional. No matter how intense the pain becomes, it serves a purpose, leading to something hopeful and beautiful. He reminds us that when a mother looks into her child’s eyes and holds that precious gift from heaven, whatever it took to get there no longer matters. As she cradles that new life, even the memory of the pain fades, leaving only indescribable awe and love. All the agony is infinitely worth it.

The bad news is indeed bad, but the good news is even more powerful. When the struggles of life intensify, we can trust that God will bring meaning and purpose to our experience. We can believe that God has not abandoned us but is leading us to a glorious destination. We often experience the truth of this promise in this life, but ultimately, the real fulfillment of this promise will be at Christ’s return. Jesus told the disciples that they would experience sorrow in the near future, but that when they see Him again, their hearts will rejoice with a joy that’s overflowing and irrepressible (John 16:22).

The encouragement Jesus offered isn’t just for the disciples; it’s for us too. We all face challenges that bring sorrow and pain. But pain can be directional, leading somewhere better—if we allow it to. Our perspective is the key. Do we trust that God can and does use the challenges we face to grow us and bring us to something greater? Do we believe that He truly comforts and cares for His children in their greatest times of need?

If we have faith in Christ, we trust Him to guide us through even the darkest times. We believe that He will richly reward those who follow Him. Jesus spent extra time emphasizing these precious assurances to the disciples because He knew they would need them to endure the hardships ahead.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what are your main takeaways? What questions emerge? What parts are difficult?`

`What are some ways God has brought something beautiful out of a painful experience in your life?`

`Memorize your favorite passage from John 16. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`