---
title:  inVite
date:   30/07/2026
---

### The Father Himself Loves You

From the upper room all the way to Gethsemane, Jesus prepared His disciples for their greatest moment of trial—and for what would come after. His desire was clear: “These things I have spoken to you, that you should not be made to stumble” (John 16:1). He had encouraged them, prepared them for the opposition they would face, and affirmed His love for them.

One might think that after receiving such clear guidance and good news, the disciples would never fail or abandon Him. Unfortunately, that wouldn’t be the case. Jesus had to break that news to them as well. They must have been heartbroken to hear that Judas would betray Him and Peter would deny Him (John 13:21, 38). The disciples must have felt startled to hear Jesus say that the religious leaders would try to kill them (John 16:2). Then Jesus added more bad news: all of them would scatter and leave Him alone (John 16:32). The disciples must have been truly shocked. However, this knowledge must have weighed even more heavily on Jesus. After doing everything He could to prepare them for three and a half years and giving them so much wisdom and affirmation in just the last few hours, they would still abandon Him.

Jesus was about to lose all earthly support. His Father would be His only remaining support. Despite the weight of this knowledge, Jesus’ primary concern was still for His followers. Though He knew His disciples were about to forsake Him, His love for them remained unchanged. He assured them that though they were all going to forsake Him and scatter, the Father’s love for them was still strong: “The Father Himself loves you” (John 16:27). Jesus knew they would desperately need this assurance in a few short hours. He wanted to give them a promise that would support them if they believed it and would invite them back when they fell away. God’s love should be the core truth that keeps us grounded through any storm that hits us.

Unfortunately, the disciples were not firmly anchored. They forsook Jesus and fled at the very time He needed them most (Mark 14:50). When He needed the disciples to pray, they slept. When He craved their encouragement, they turned and ran. Within a very short time, these failures haunted them and sank them deep into despair, shame, and guilt. Their minds must have replayed their failures ad nauseum. At their lowest point, we can only imagine how deeply they cherished this promise: “The Father Himself loves you” (John 16:27). Despite their setbacks, the disciples knew that Jesus and the Father still loved them.

**Questions to consider:**

`How often do you find yourself stuck in negative thought loops, rehearsing all the mistakes you’ve made? How much would it help to embrace the promise that “the Father Himself loves you”?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`