---
title:  Refusing To Rest
date:  03/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Numbers 11:1–15; Numbers 12:1–3; Numbers 13:27–33; 1 Corinthians 10:1–11.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “The things that happened to those people are examples. They were written to be warnings for us. We live in the time that all those past histories are pointing to” (1 Corinthians 10:11, ERV).

DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS often behave in strange ways right before a big earthquake.

Scientists now know that animals can feel the pressure from an earthquake long before humans do. Maybe that is why animals act confused or afraid just before the ground starts to shake. Elephants can hear sounds from small earthquakes that happen a few days or weeks before a bigger earthquake happens. Humans cannot hear these sounds or feel these small earthquakes at all.

On August 23, 2011, a 5.8 earthquake hit the Washington, D.C. area. A few minutes before the earthquake, some of the animals at the National Zoo started to behave in strange ways. One example was the lemurs. Lemurs are animals that look much the same as monkeys. A lemur has thick fur and a long tail. Lemurs live in trees in Madagascar. The lemurs in the zoo cried loudly for 15 minutes before the ground started to shake.

This week, we look at some examples of strange human behavior. This behavior is not caused by earthquakes or other natural disasters. This behavior is caused by sin. The people in our lesson refused to rest in the forgiveness of Jesus. Jesus offers this forgiveness to everyone who comes to Him in faith.