---
title:  Refusing To Rest In The Desert 
date:  04/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

For sure, Israel must feel unhappy when they leave Sinai. More than a year has passed since they left Egypt (Numbers 1:1). The people want to enter the Promised Land. Sure, they saw all the wonderful miracles God did to show them His favor. But what happens at the first place they come to after they leave Sinai? They start to complain!

`What do the people complain about? Read Numbers 11:1–15 for the answer.`

The mixed group of people with the Israelites start complaining. Soon the Israelites join in. They all want the food they ate in Egypt. “ ‘We wish we had meat to eat. We remember the fish we ate in Egypt. It didn’t cost us anything. We also remember the cucumbers, melons, leeks [a type of onion], onion, and garlic. But now we’ve lost all interest in eating. We never see anything but this manna [bread from heaven]’ ” (Numbers 11:4–6, NIrV). Do you see how the people remember only what they want to remember about Egypt? They forget the slavery and remember the food!

God feeds the people manna for more than a year. But the people refuse to be happy with the manna. They want something else. Even Moses gets upset by all the fuss the  people make. Moses does not have an easy job, for sure. But Moses knows the One he should turn to: Jesus. Moses asks the Lord, “ ‘Why have you brought me this trouble? I’m your servant. What have I done wrong? Why did you make me responsible for all these people?’ ” (Numbers 11:11, NIrV).

`How does God answer the people? Read Numbers 11:16–33 for the answer.`

Of course, God knows our needs. He also knows when we feel unhappy. So, God gives the people birds to eat. But meat is not the thing the people really want. When we are upset, the thing that makes us angry often is not the real cause of our anger. So, we fight because we are upset about a deeper problem. Israel fights against the leadership of God in their lives. We all need to be careful about that. Fighting against God is easier to do than we think.

`Why is it so easy to remember the past as better than it really was?`