---
title:  When Sin Spreads The Same As Sickness 
date:  05/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What are Miriam and Aaron upset about? Read Numbers 12:1–3 for the answer.`

At first, we may think Miriam and Aaron are unhappy about Zipporah, the wife of Moses. Zipporah is a Cushite from Midian (Exodus 3:1). She was not born an Israelite.

But the Bible shows us Zipporah is not the reason Miriam and Aaron are upset. Their complaint is about leadership. In chapter 11, God tells Moses to choose 70 leaders. These men will help Moses lead the people (Numbers 11:16, 17, 24, 25). Aaron and Miriam have served as chief leaders in Israel (Exodus 4:13–15; Micah 6:4). But now they feel their leadership is in danger. Aaron and Miriam say to each other, “ ‘Moses is not the only one the LORD has used to speak to the people. He has also spoken through [by way of] us!’ The LORD heard this” (Numbers 12:2, ERV).

`How does God answer the complaint of Aaron and Miriam? For the answer, read Numbers 12:4–13. Why do you think God answers in this powerful way?`

God answers their complaint right away. God punishes Miriam with leprosy. Leprosy is a skin disease. In Bible times, people with leprosy lived alone so they did not spread the disease to other people. The leprosy does not leave anyone with doubt about who is wrong. Yes, God gave Aaron and Miriam special messages to give to His people. But Aaron and Miriam must remember these messages are a gift. They must not use this gift as a weapon to get more power over the people. God chose Moses to lead the people because Moses knows he must depend on God for everything.

Aaron does not get leprosy. If God covers Aaron with leprosy, then Aaron cannot enter into the holy tent and serve God. But the leprosy that falls on Miriam shows that God is not happy with her or Aaron. Aaron asks God to heal his sister. His prayer shows that he is part of the problem that caused his sister to get leprosy (Numbers 12:11). Moses also prays for his sister (Numbers 12:11–13). God wants us to have this same love in our hearts for our brothers and sisters in the faith.

`Why is it better to pray for our leaders than to complain about them when they make mistakes?`