---
title:  Fighting Against God 
date:  06/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Israelites arrive at the edge of the Promised Land. Moses sends 12 spies into Canaan. Their job is to explore the land and report back to Moses and the people. Their report is exciting and wonderful, at least at first.

`Read the report from the spies in Numbers 13:27–33. What part of the report causes the Israelites to lose hope?`

Caleb does his best to stop the people from giving up hope and turning against their leaders. But the doubters win. They cause the people to lose faith. In the end, Israel does not try to win the land that God promises them. The Israelites have hearts that refuse to rest in God. They do not trust Him. The people choose to cry and complain. That is why they do not march forward in faith.

When we do not rest in God, we have a hard time showing faith. Doubt hurts more than just our hearts. Scientists tell us that when we do not rest enough, we will make bad choices. Doubt also can cause us to grow very fat, start a drug habit, or grow even more tired and unhappy.

`Read Numbers 14:1–10. What happens next?`

Things go from bad to worse. Caleb warns the people, “ ‘Don’t turn against the LORD!’ ” (Numbers 14:9, ERV). But the people pay no attention. They decide to kill their leaders with stones. A heart that refuses to rest will turn against God. Where does that feeling lead? To death.

“The ten spies do not trust in God. They talk against Caleb and Joshua. Someone shouts that the people should stone those two loyal men. The crowd goes crazy. They grab rocks to kill Caleb and Joshua. The crowd rushes forward. They yell as if they have fully lost their minds. All of the sudden, they drop the stones. They grow very quiet and start to shake with fear. God Himself comes to stop their evil plan. The glory of Lord fills the Holy Tent of worship to show the people that God is there. His glory is the same as a fire. The glory from God lights up the whole Tent. All the people see this sign from the Lord. God is stronger than they are. Now He shows Himself to the people. No one is brave enough to fight against God. The evil spies hold their breath and creep back to their tents.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 390, adapted.