---
title:  Someone Who Stands Between God And Sinners 
date:  07/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What chance does God offer Moses when the Israelites turn against God? Read Numbers 14:11, 12 for the answer.`

God offers to destroy the Israelites and make a whole new people from Moses who will be the father of them all.

`What does Moses do when the people turn against God and himself? For the answer, read Numbers 14:13–19.`

These verses show us that Moses is a loyal man of God. The answer of Moses shows us the prayer that Jesus will say 1,400 years later for His followers in all their troubles (John 17). What Moses does here for the people is what Jesus does for us now in heaven. Moses does not defend the people to God. He knows they are guilty. But he asks God anyway to forgive them by showing them His love and mercy (Numbers 14:19). The Lord forgives the people because Moses asks Him to forgive. In the same way, God forgives us today because of Jesus, His dying on the cross, and His waking up from the dead.

That is why Moses says, “ ‘Forgive their sin. Forgive them the same way you have been forgiving them since the time they left Egypt until now’ ” (Numbers 14:19, ERV). The mercy of God heals us. The forgiveness of God turns our hearts back to Him and gives us a new start.

Forgiveness costs us something. Mercy and forgiveness are not cheap. Just because God forgives us does not mean we will not suffer because of our mistakes. Our bad choices often cause pain to other people and ourselves. So, this group of Israelites will not enter into the Promised Land (Numbers 14:20–23).

Yes, God will take care of the Israelites for another 38 years. God will feed them. He talk to them from His Holy Tent of Worship. He will be with them in the desert. But then they will die. Then their children will need to trust that God will bring them into the Promised Land.

Does this sound as if God is judging against His people? Really, God is showing them His mercy and forgiveness. How will this group of Israelites fight and win against the people of Canaan if they do not know how to trust God. How can they be a “light” to the people around them if they themselves are tripping and falling in the dark?