---
title:  Real Faith Or False Faith 
date:  08/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Compare the time of Israel in the desert to the end times just before the Second Coming. What is the same for the people living in these different times? For the answer, read 1 Corinthians 10:1–11.`

In Bible times, the people of God traveled around the desert on their way to the Promised Land. Today, the people of God are also on their way to the Promised Land. But the desert they travel across is not a real desert. The desert of today is a word picture that shows how empty our modern lives can be when we do not rest in God.

We are the same as the Israelites. All too often, we refuse to trust in the rest God gives us. We search for peace. But we look for this peace in the wrong places.

`How do the Israelites behave when God judges them in Numbers 14:39–45?`

Israel says, “ ‘We have sinned. We are sorry that we did not trust the Lord. We will go to the place that the LORD promised’ ” (Numbers 14:40, ERV). Israel turns against God. Then Israel tries to turn back to God in their own strength. In the last two verses from Numbers 14, we see that Israel refuses to accept the new plan God gives them. What happens next? The story ends for the people of God in death and disappointment. The people are very stubborn. They march to war without the Holy Box that has the agreement. They also go forward without Moses to lead them. Their hearts are filled with false faith. False faith is the belief that God will protect us and give us things He has not promised us. This sin is awful.

When we believe God will give us something He has not promised, we are in danger. This sin can cost us our lives because it leads to death. We can die because we are not afraid to move forward when we should be afraid. We are not scared to act without God or His promises to help us. We should always trust in God and wait on Him to lead us. But all too often, we do not. That is why we make decisions that we will be sorry about later.

`Think about a time you acted on faith. Now think of a time when you did not wait on the Lord to show you His plan. What makes these two experiences different?`