---
title:  Further Thought
date:  09/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“The Israelites are very sorry for their sins. At least, that is how things look at first. But the people are not really sorry in their hearts. They are sorry only because of the suffering that their sin causes them. They are not sorry for disobeying God. They also are not sorry for not feeling grateful to God. So, God gives the people a test. He asks them to turn away from the land of their enemies. When the people learn that God will not give them the Promise Land right now, they decide to do what they want. They announce that they will not go back into the desert. The people know they have sinned deeply. They allowed their feelings to control them. They also tried to kill the spies who told them to obey God. Now they are scared to learn that they have made a mistake. Awful things will happen to them now because of their sins. But their hearts do not change. They only need an excuse to turn against God again. The people find the excuse they are looking for when Moses orders them to go back into the desert. God Himself tells Moses to give this command to the people.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 391, adapted.

“Faith is not the same as a false belief that God will do something for us that He has not promised to do. We must have real faith. Then we will be protected from this false faith. When we have real faith, we will trust in the promises of God. Real faith will make us obedient to God. People who have false faith say they believe in the promises of God. But these people do what Satan does. Satan uses the promises of God as an excuse to sin. Adam and Eve sin because they do not trust the love of God. Adam and Eve have false faith. This false faith causes them to break the law of God. They believe a lie about His love. Adam and Eve expect God to protect them from the bad things that will happen when they break His law. Only a person with false faith expects God to show them favor when he or she disobeys. But if we want God to show us His mercy, we must obey Him. Real faith starts with the promises in the Bible and follows the things the Bible asks us to do.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 126, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Talk in class about real Bible faith and false faith. How are the two different? When God asks the Israelites to go fight the Canaanites and win their land, God asks them to act in faith. The people refuse. But later, when the Israelites do attack the Canaanites, the Lord says their actions are a sin. The people have false faith. They do not fight when God tells them to fight. Then when God commands them not to fight, they go ahead and fight anyway. Why does the first example show faith and the second example show false faith? What part do our feelings and the happenings around us have in our decision to show faith or false faith?`

`Think more about the idea that sin leads to suffering. Yes, we can be forgiven. But often we must live with the awful things that happen because of our sins. Some people have a hard time believing that God forgives them for a sin in their past. This is often true when their sin continues to cause problems in their lives now and in the lives of their loved ones. How can you help someone with this problem know that God fully forgives him or her?`