---
title:  Nehemiah Prepares for His Task
date:  10/10/2019
---

No question, the Lord had called Nehemiah to this task and would provide all that he would need. Armed with the knowledge of God’s promises and the certainty of the call by God, Nehemiah proceeded. But he moved ahead carefully and prayerfully. In other words, even though he knew God was with him, this knowledge didn’t keep him, basically, from thinking through what he would do.

`Read Nehemiah 2:11–20. What does Nehemiah do to prepare for the project of rebuilding the wall?`

Leadership Lessons: Lesson 1—Nehemiah does not tell anyone what the plans are that “God had put in my heart to do at Jerusalem” (Neh. 2:12). Not only does he not tell the enemy, but he keeps it from the Jewish leaders, as well. He is on a scouting mission to figure out what needs to be done. Lesson 2—Before presenting anything, Nehemiah does his homework and plans out all the work that will be required. Lesson 3—When he does speak of the task, Nehemiah first outlines what God has done so far to lead this expedition, and then he adds the words of the king. He encourages before he asks for commitment. It is nothing short of a miracle that the Jews respond so favorably and decide to build, despite the resistance that will come. God had prepared not only the king through Nehemiah’s prayers and fasting but also the Jewish people, so that they respond boldly and courageously.

`Read Nehemiah 2:19, 20. What do these verses tell us about Nehemiah’s faith? How might texts such as Deuteronomy 7:9, Psalm 23:1–6, and Numbers 23:19 have helped Nehemiah?`

Our conversations demonstrate who we are and what we truly believe. Nehemiah tends to speak uplifting words. He is not afraid to include God in all that he says and to glorify Him as well, even when people jeer and laugh at him. Even though Nehemiah knows the contempt the enemies feel toward them, he doesn’t mince words or leave God out of the conversation. Like Joseph in Egypt many years earlier, Nehemiah is not afraid to promote his God among people who do not believe in Him.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

On the third night after his arrival Nehemiah rose at midnight and with a few trusted companions went out to view for himself the desolation of Jerusalem. Mounted on his mule, he passed from one part of the city to another, surveying the broken-down walls and gates of the city of his fathers. Painful reflections filled the mind of the Jewish patriot as with sorrow-stricken heart he gazed upon the ruined defenses of his beloved Jerusalem. Memories of Israel’s past greatness stood out in sharp contrast with the evidences of her humiliation. 

In secrecy and silence Nehemiah completed his circuit of the walls. “The rulers knew not whither I went,” he declares, “or what I did; neither had I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor to the nobles, nor to the rulers, nor to the rest that did the work.” The remainder of the night he spent in prayer; for he knew that the morning would call for earnest effort to arouse and unite his dispirited and divided countrymen.—_Prophets and Kings_, pp. 636, 637. 

When perplexities arise, as they are sure to do, draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. And then, when the enemy comes in like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord will lift up a standard for you. Decide that there is a great work to be done, and that no man’s influence or opposition shall divert you from the plain path of duty. Then you can say with Nehemiah, “The hand of my God is good upon me” (see Nehemiah 2:18). . . .

. . . Let every man stand in moral independence, resolved that his mind shall be molded by the Holy Spirit. God calls for minutemen, who are not ready to voice the words of men who, if converted could exert a good influence, but unconverted, are not to be depended upon. In an emergency they are sure to lead into false paths. The Lord would not have us imitate any man, but follow on step by step to know Him.—_This Day With God_, p. 284.

There is need of Nehemiahs in the church today,—not men who can pray and preach only, but men whose prayers and sermons are braced with firm and eager purpose. . . . The success attending Nehemiah’s efforts shows what prayer, faith, and wise, energetic action will accomplish. . . . The spirit manifested by the leader will be, to a great extent, reflected by the people. If the leaders professing to believe the solemn, important truths that are to test the world at this time, manifest no ardent zeal to prepare a people to stand in the day of God, we must expect the church to be careless, indolent, and pleasure-loving.

Nehemiah was a reformer, a great man raised up for an important time. As he came in contact with evil and every kind of opposition, fresh courage and zeal were aroused. His energy and determination inspired the people of Jerusalem; and strength and courage took the place of feebleness and discouragement. His holy purpose, his high hope, his cheerful consecration to the work, were contagious. The people caught the enthusiasm of their leader, and in his sphere each man became a Nehemiah, and helped to make stronger the hand and heart of his neighbor.—_Conflict_ _and Courage_, p. 264.