---
title:  The Agreement That Continues Forever
date:  09/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 12:1–3; Deuteronomy 9:5; Deuteronomy 5:1–21; Deuteronomy 26:16–19.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘I will make My agreement between Me and you and your children after you through their whole lives for all time. I will be God to you and to your children’s children after you’ ” (Genesis 17:7, NLV).

“THEN I SAW ANOTHER ANGEL flying across the sky. He had good news that will last [continue] for ever to tell the people who live on the earth. The good news is for every country, tribe [family group], language, and nation [people living under the same government]” (Revelation 14:6, WE). Do you see the words “good news that will last [continue] for ever”? God promised this Good News to us in Jesus Christ “before He made the world [the earth and everything in it]” (Titus 1:2, WE).

The Good News is really about the special agreement God made with humans (Genesis 17:7; Isaiah 24:5; Ezekiel 16:60; Hebrews 13:20). And this agreement is about the Good News. What is this Good News? Because God loves you, He offers to save you from sin. You cannot earn this gift. All you can do is love God back “ ‘with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind, and all your strength’ ” (Mark 12:30, ERV). How do we show God we love Him? “We show that we love God when we obey his laws” (1 John 5:3, WE).

This week, we will study what Deuteronomy has to say about the agreement.