---
title:  The Agreement And The Good News 
date:  10/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

From the start, the Good News was the most important part of the agreement God made with humans.

`What promise did God make to Abram? How is the Good News shown in this promise? For the answers, read Genesis 12:1–3; Genesis 15:5–18; and Romans 4:1–5.`

Abraham believed in the promises God made to him. So, God in His mercy accepted the faith of Abraham. Abraham promised to obey God (for an example of the obedience of Abraham, read the story about Mount Moriah, in Genesis 22). The Bible tells us, “but people cannot do any work that will make them right with God. So they must trust in him. Then he accepts their faith, and that makes them right with him” (Romans 4:5, ERV). This verse helps us see why Paul uses Abraham as an example. Abraham shows us how to live by the promises in the agreement between God and His people.

We see this idea in the whole Bible. In Galatians 3, Paul includes a quote from Genesis 15:6, saying: “ ‘Abraham believed God, and because of this faith he was accepted as one who is right with God’ ” (Galatians 3:6, ERV). Later, Paul says, “All people who believe are blessed the same as Abraham was” (Galatians 3:9, ERV). God makes His promises to everyone. Everyone includes Jew and non-Jew alike. Paul explains that “the true [real] children of Abraham are those who have faith” (Galatians 3:7). The children of Abraham are made right with God in the same way Abraham was. They are made right because of their faith. Yes, God commands them to obey His law as part of His agreement. But good behavior does not make His people right with Him.

Hundreds of years before Paul, Jeremiah talks about the new agreement. Jeremiah shows how the agreement and the law are connected: “ ‘In the future I will make this agreement with the people of Israel.” This message is from the Lord. ‘I will put my teachings in their minds, and I will write them on their hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people’ ” (Jeremiah 31:33, ERV). These words help us remember the words Moses wrote: “ ‘I will walk with you and be your God. And you will be my people’ ” (Leviticus 26:12, ERV).

`How are the law and the Good News connected in the Three Angels’ Messages in Revelation 14?`