---
title:  The Agreement And Israel 
date:  11/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“ ‘You are not going in to take over their land because you have done what is right or honest. It’s because those nations are so evil. That’s why the Lord your God will drive them out to make room for you. He will do what he said he would do. He made a promise to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob’ ” (Deuteronomy 9:5, NIrV; read also Deuteronomy 9:27). What does this verse teach you about the agreement promises God made to His people?

In this verse, we see that God makes promises because of His love and mercy. God works for His people even when they make awful mistakes. (The Good News works the same way for us today, for sure.) God gives His favor to Israel because of the promise He made to their fathers long ago.

Moses often talks to the Israelites about the promises God made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.

`Read Exodus 2:24; Exodus 6:8; and Leviticus 26:42. What is being said in these verses? How does that show us how the agreement promises work?`

In His agreement with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, God promised to free the children of Israel from Egypt. The time when God made His people free from slavery in Egypt is named the Exodus. The Exodus is a word picture for the mercy and loving favor of God. So, what does the Exodus help us to understand about how the agreement promises work? Even before the children of Israel were born, God made promises to save them. So, the Israelites did not do anything to earn these promises by their good behavior.

Of course, God did not only free them from Egypt. He took them to Sinai. At Sinai, God made His agreement with His people (read Exodus 20). The Good News and the law were the most important parts of the agreement. God commanded His people to obey His Ten Commandments. Their obedience showed that they knew the Lord and that He already saved them. So, again and again, in Deuteronomy, God asks His people to obey the law as part of their agreement with Him.

`We have been saved by the mercy of God. So, what part should the law of God have in our lives today? Why is the law so important to our experience with God?`