---
title:  The Book About The Agreement 
date:  12/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The word for the agreement between God and His people comes from the Hebrew word “berit.” “Berit” shows us that the agreement with God is more than a business deal. The agreement is about a special connection and friendship God wants to have with His people. “Berit” or agreement, is written many times in Deuteronomy. That is why many Bible experts name Deuteronomy “The Book About the Agreement.”

Look at Deuteronomy 5:1–21. How do these verses show us that the agreement is an important idea to the book of Deuteronomy?

Soon after God frees His people from Egypt, God makes His agreement with them at Sinai. This agreement happens right before God commands the Israelites to enter the Promised Land. But the Israelites do not enter. 40 years later, God commands the Israelites to enter the Promised Land again. Their entering the Promised Land is an important part of the promises God made to Abram in His agreement (Genesis 12:7; Exodus 12:25). So, God wants His people to remember that obedience is an important part of the agreement with Him. That is why the Lord gives Moses the Ten Commandments to give to the people again.

For sure, the Lord will keep His promises to His people that He made in His agreement long ago. God also wants His people to do their part, too. That is why Moses tells the people to remember that God wrote His law for them in the past: “ ‘ He told you His agreement which He told you to keep, the Ten Laws. And He wrote them on two pieces of stone’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:13, NLV). God gave His law to His people at Sinai. Now God gives His law to His people again, in Moab, just before the people enter the Promised Land. As we saw already, the Promised Land is part of the promises God made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob hundreds of years earlier. This promise shows the agreement that “will continue forever” (Genesis 17:7, ERV). God planned this agreement even before He made this earth.

“Before our earth was made, God the Father and His Son agreed to save humans if Satan caused them to sin. The Father took the hand of the Son. The Son took the hand of the Father. They held hands to show Their promise that Jesus Christ will offer Himself for the sins of humans.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 834, adapted.