---
title:  His Special People 
date:  13/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As modern people, we may have a difficult time understanding the people who lived in Canaan while Israel wandered in the desert. Many worldwide kingdoms have come and gone since then. Only ruins are left (and often not even that). So, what can we really know about the small people groups that lived in the same area as Israel did?

Not much. But we do know one thing: these people believed in many gods. They bowed down to statues of gods and worshiped nature. They killed children as offerings to their gods. Try to make a picture in your mind of a people and religion that think it is okay to do that to their own children. And worse, they did it in the name of some god!

No wonder the Lord warns His people again and again not to do what the people around them do: “ ‘You will enter the land the Lord your God is giving you. But don’t learn to do the terrible [awful] things the other nations [people groups] do’ ” (Deuteronomy 18:9, ICB).

God had a special purpose for choosing Israel above all the people on the earth to be His special people. God wanted Israel to tell everyone on earth about Him. God wanted Israel to teach other people that He is the One who made the earth and sky. The Lord is the only God there is.

Read Deuteronomy 26:16–19, NIrV. How do these verses show us what the special friendship between God and His people is all about? What type of people does God want the Israelites to become? How will this change show that they keep the special agreement? What lessons can this teach us?

Moses starts with the words “this day.” “This day” means “right now” or “again.” This word choice is interesting. God commanded His people to obey Him all along, right? So, “this day” shows us that God wants His people to make the choice again. The people need to choose again, right now, to obey God, be holy, and be His special people. These choices show why they are a people. Only Israel knows God and how He wants people to live. Israel has “present truth.” Present truth is the Bible truth people need most for their time. God asks Israel to live the truth until Jesus, the living Truth (John 14:6), comes.

`Why is the idea of giving ourselves to God and obeying Him “this day” also important to us?`