---
title:  Other Word Pictures For The Agreement 
date:  14/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

For a long time, Bible experts have seen that the agreement between God and His people is much the same as agreements made between kingdoms in Old Testament times. We should not be surprised by this information at all. God often works with His people in ways that they already know about. Then they can understand Him better.

At the same time, we often get the wrong idea about the Bible agreement. We may think that the agreement is only a legal piece of paper full of rules. (God is the Law-Giver, for sure.) But the agreement between God and His people is about more than rules. The agreement is about a special heart connection and friendship God wanted with His people. The agreement shows us that God wanted to be close to His people. So, the Bible uses other word pictures to help show us this deeper understanding about the agreement.

`Read Deuteronomy 8:5; Deuteronomy 14:1; and Deuteronomy 32:6, 18–20. What word pictures do you see in these verses? How do these word pictures show the special connection God wants with His chosen people?`

`Read Deuteronomy 4:20 and Deuteronomy 32:9. What word pictures do you see in these verses? How do these word pictures show the friendship God wants with His people?`

Each example shows us the idea of family. Our family connections should be the most loving ties we have with people. God wants to be this close with us, too. After the followers of Jesus turned from Him at the cross, Jesus never stopped wanting to be close to them. That is why Jesus told the two Marys after He woke up from the dead: “ ‘Go tell my brothers to go to Galilee. They will see me there’ ” (Matthew 28:10, WE). Do you see that Jesus says, “my brothers”? This name shows us that Jesus loves His followers the same as family. This example shows us what friendship between God and humans is all about: mercy and love from God to people who did nothing to earn it.

`How close do you feel in your heart to God? How can you grow even closer to Him and learn to love Him more? At the same time, you must remember that your part of your friendship with God includes obeying Him. How are loving and obeying God in agreement with each other?`