---
title:  Further Thought
date:  15/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“People who try to obey the law in their own strength will become prisoners. They will have a legal religion. Our only hope is to accept the agreement God made with Abraham. In this agreement, God gives us mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. We get these gifts from God by our faith in Jesus. The Good News the Bible preaches to us today is the same Good News that God preached to Abraham. This Good News gives us hope. Abraham looked to Jesus. Jesus starts the work to save us. Jesus will finish the work to save us, too.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 6, page 1077, adapted.

“When Jesus hung on the cross, He cried out, ‘It is finished’ [John 19:30, ERV]. Jesus said those words on the cross to the Father. The agreement they made long ago has finally happened. Now Jesus announces, Father, the work you gave me is finished. I have done what You asked, O My God. I have finished the saving work You gave Me to do. I hope You are pleased. If You are, ‘Father, I want the people that you have given me to be with me. Then they will see that you made me great [gave me glory], because you loved me before you made the world’ [John 17:24, WE].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 834, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Before the earth was made, the Father and Son make an agreement to save humans if they sin. Why should this news encourage us? What does this Bible truth show us about how much God wants us in His kingdom?`

`As a church, what work does God give us to do that He gave to Old Testament Israel? How can we avoid making the same mistakes the Israelites made?`

`Why are the Good News and the promises about the Good News so important to the New Agreement? What verses can you find in the New Testament that show God did not throw out the law or obedience under the New Agreement, as many Christians now teach? Why do you think they teach this false idea?`