---
title:  Freedom in Christ
date:   02/09/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another” (Gal. 5:13, ESV).

**Introduction**: Gal. 5:13

**Freedom in a Wider Sense**

Nelson Mandela (Madiba) was a leader who was famous not only in South Africa but throughout the entire world as well. In one of his popular quotes, he said, “For to be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others.”*

Freedom is such a sensitive word and so vast that many people look at it in a narrower sense—to benefit only the individual. Stories of people who have abused their freedom to violate the rights of other people are common in the media and in our societies. Such stories show how far some people will take their freedom just to do whatever they want.

**Freedom alone is not enough to make a just society.**

Nevertheless, can you imagine living in a world in which everyone is free to do whatever he or she wants? Obviously, that would put the freedom of other people at stake. In essence, what Mandela’s quote means is that freedom alone is not enough to make a just society. While each person values freedom, it has to come with respect and responsibility.

As Christians, we have gained freedom through Christ, who took the weight of our sins at Calvary.When we accept Him as Savior, our lives and the way we look at situations change. We can claim oneness with Christ, in which He liberates us from the chains of sin. However, we need to know our limits, even as we exercise our freedom in Christ.

Of course, the Bible is our guide. Just as the church in Galatia, some can still be tied to the traditional practices of legalism and licentiousness. For instance, some may think that God accepts them solely because they obey the Sabbath law or because they follow some standard beliefs of the church. Many may also think that church membership allows them to be free to do whatever they want. They can go ahead with pleasing themselves in any way under the umbrella of being free in Christ.

However, according to the Bible, these two versions of freedom do not hold any meaning for a person who truly walks after the pattern of Christ. It is against this backdrop that Paul wrote to church members in Galatia, warning them about the dangers of legalism and licentiousness. Our lesson this week focuses on how we can keep our true freedom in Christ by walking in the Spirit and serving one another through love.

<sup>* Nelson Mandela, “A Selection of Quotes,” NelsonMandela.org, accessed May 24, 2016, https://www.nelsonmandela.org/content/page/a-selection-of-nelson-mandela-quotes.</sup>

_Jacklin Achieng, Homa-Bay, Kenya_