---
title:  Freedom in Christ
date:   03/09/2017
---

**Logos**: Lev. 19:18; Rom. 5:5; 6:6, 12, 14, 18; 8:14; 13:8; 1 Cor. 6:20; Gal. 3:10–13; 5:2–13


**The Price of Our Freedom** (1 Cor. 6:20; Gal. 3:13)

We all have precious items for which we have paid so dearly that we always take good care of them. For instance, your smartphone is one of the precious items in the digital age. You use it for voice or text communication and entertainment. Through various apps, a smartphone is an all-in-one gadget that plays an important role in your life.However, think about how you acquired that smartphone.You earned it and paid a price for it, which makes it very special.

As Christians, we are bought with a special price, which is the blood of Christ. When Adam and Eve committed sin in the Garden of Eden, the entire human race deserved death (Gen. 2:17). However, God, through His boundless love for humanity, offered His only Son to carry the penalty of sin and redeem the human race to righteousness (John 3:16). That redemption sets the basis of Christian freedom.

**The laws that governed their previous lives have no place in the new life.**

Writing to the Christians in Galatia, Paul offers concrete advice: accepting Christ into our lives gives us peace and freedom that we can get from no other source. Therefore, through Christ, we can claim the ownership of God’s kingdom. In return, we are supposed to glorify God in our bodies and spirits because they both belong to Him (1 Cor. 6:20).

**The Nature of Christian Freedom** (Rom. 6:6; Heb. 2:14, 15)

When we allow Christ to reign, our lives undergo a special transformation. The Holy Spirit has the power to lead us to the freedom we deserve as the children of God.As such, freedom in Christ does not depend on leaning on a set of rules for support. Instead, it thrives on the ability to embrace oneself as a new creation.When Christ died, He relieved Christians from the power of sin. Even though sin exists in the world where we live, we have the power to resist it because Christ liberated us to become servants of righteousness (Rom. 6:18).

Paul advises Christians in Galatia that since accepting Christ, they are now a new creation, a new territory where sin cannot dominate.The laws that governed their previous lives have no place in the new life.They are now under the graceof Christ,whichdeliverstruefreedom.TheBibleaffirmsthatthechildren of God are partakers of the flesh and blood of Christ, which enables them to overcome the power of the devil. The grace of Christ is sufficient to deliver Christians from the fear of death, in which they were enslaved (Heb. 2:14, 15), and to deliver true freedom.

**Consequences of Legalism** (Gal. 5:2–12)

Legalists in Galatia thought they could win God’s favor by works. In the end, they became slaves to the law, which according to them was the basis of salvation. However, some laws, such as circumcision among the Jews, had no place in the life of a reformed person (Gal.5:6).Those who stuck to observing such laws found themselves in a slavery of which they could not easily come out.

By accepting Jesus into our lives, we need faith that works by love. We cannot earn salvation by observing a set of rules. Salvation comes from God through acceptance of what Christ did for us on the cross. We cannot buy it through some works that we think will please God. For Christians who think they can earn God’s favor by being good observers of the law, it is time to realize that works of the law have no place in a new creation in Christ. Legalism ensures that you remain a slave to the law. Being a new creation in Christ enables you to experience true freedom in Christ.

**Liberty Versus Licentiousness** (Rom. 6:1, 2; Gal. 5:13)

In addressing the Christian church in Galatia, Paul is opposed to legalism and licentiousness. He emphasizes liberty (Gal. 5:13), which provides sufficient grounds for Christians to exercise brotherly love and lead a Spirit-filled life. However, while Paul stresses liberty among Christians, he is convinced that freedom in Christ does not lead to moral decadence. Christians liberated from the power of sin should not obey it in its lusts (Rom. 6:12). Paul goes on to mention the qualities of a Spirit-filled life (Gal. 5:22, 23).

**The Law Fulfilled** (Lev. 19:18; Rom. 8:4; Gal. 3:10, 12)

Through His death on the cross and subsequent resurrection, Christ broke the chains of bondage that characterized the lives of the Pharisees and the scribes. He summarized the law in a manner that is easier to understand: love your neighbor as yourself (James 2:8). The law is fulfilled in those who glorify Christ in their bodies and their hearts.This is possible by faith, not by following the law (Gal. 3:11).

**React**

`1. What does it mean to have freedom in Christ?`

`2. What is the difference between freedom in Christ and licentiousness?`

`3. What are the fruits of Christian liberty?`

`4. How can Christians come out of the yokes of legalism and licentiousness?`

_Seline Khavetsa, Nairobi, Kenya_