---
title:  Understanding Freedom in Christ
date:   04/09/2017
---

**Testimony**: Gal. 3:13

“Every soul that refuses to give himself to God is under the control of another power. He is not his own. He may talk of freedom, but he is in the most abject slavery.He is not allowed to see the beauty of truth, for his mind is under thecontrol of Satan.Whilehe flatters himself that he is following the dictates of his own judgment, he obeys the will of the prince of darkness. Christ came to break the shackles of sin-slavery from the soul.‘If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.’ ‘The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus’ sets us ‘free from the law of sin and death.’ Rom. 8:2.”1

**“Christ in the fullness of His grace is there to change the current of the thoughts that have been running in selfish channels.”**

Writing to the church in Galatia, Paul warns his readers not to use their freedom in Christ for personal exaltations. Instead, they should use it to serve one another in brotherly love.“There is in man a disposition to esteem himself more highly than his brother, to work for self, to seek the highest place; and often this results in evil surmisings and bitterness of spirit.”2

However, “Christ in the fullness of His grace is there to change the current of the thoughts that have been running in selfish channels.The Holy Spirit quickens the sensibilities of those who follow the example of their Lord.”3

The story of the rich young man (verses16–22) exists to teach us what is required of us to acquire freedom in Christ. “Christ looked into the face of the young man, as if reading his life and searching his character. He loved him, and He hungered to give him that peace and grace and joy which would materially change his character.‘One thing thou lackest,’He said;‘go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow Me.’ ”4

“It is obedience to His law, not merely a legal obedience, but an obedience which enters into the life, and is exemplified in the character. God has set His own standard of character for all who would become subjects of His kingdom. Only those who will become co-workers with Christ, only those who will say, Lord, all I have and all I am is Thine, will be acknowledged as sons and daughters of God.”5

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 466.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 650.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid.</sup>

<sup>4. Ibid., p. 519.</sup>

<sup>5. Ibid., p. 523.</sup>

_Rose Oguttu, Dagoretti, Nairobi, Kenya_