---
title:  How Do We Earn God’s Love?
date:   05/09/2017
---

**Evidence**: Gal. 4:8, 9

The early Christians in Galatia took two principal directions with their lives. Some were legalists who thought they could earn God’s favor through strict adherencetothecovenant laws andtheritualsoftheirday.Othersslippedinto lawlessness, thinking that they were free to do anything they wanted. In both ways, the subjects of the practices experienced a form of slavery that is opposed to Christian freedom.

**God cannot love us based on the number of rules we obey.**

When we cease to live in the bondage of legalism, we replace the practice with “the good news of the availability of a spiritual exchange whereby the presence of the Spirit of God indwells the spirit of a man, allowing for the character of God to be expressed in the behavior of a man by the dynamic empowering and enabling of the Spirit of the risen Lord Jesus.”*

God cannot love us based on the number of rules we obey.When we try to earn God’s favor by works or by following rules, we are like slaves or prisoners, locked behind bars. Besides, justification comes not by observing the law, but by faith (Gal. 3:11). God has provided His love free to those who choose to believe in Him (John 3:16). If, by faith, we believe in Christ, we can experience the freedom that God intends for us.

Strict adherence to law or a set of rules is a practice that suppresses our faith, so we cannot recognize God’s activity in our lives. When we allow legalism into the church, it binds us up, ties us back to the rules, regulations, and rituals that have no place in the true experience of Christian freedom. In the end, we remain under perpetual bondage of “self effort” to please God.

True freedom in Christ comes by knowing our position in the Christian faith andnurturingthatfaithto developa personal relationship with God.Whenthat happens, we will not be chained to the rock of “good deeds.” Instead, we will surrender ourselves to Him in prayer, developing a personal relationship with Christ through the Holy Spirit.

**React**

`1. What are the dangers of legalism?`

`2. Does freedom in Christ mean that we do not obey God’s commandments? Please explain your answer.`

<sup>* James A.Fowler, “Legalism,” Christinyou.net, accessed May 24, 2016, http://www.christinyou.net/pages/legalism.html.</sup>

_George Otieno, Homa-Bay, Kenya_