---
title:  Steps to Freedom in Christ
date:   06/09/2017
---

**How-to**: Gal. 5:1

Experiencing freedom in Christ should come when you accept Christ as your personal Savior. By His death on the cross, Christ demonstrated victory over sin and death for every Christian who accepts Him into his or her life. However, how can you tell if you have the freedom that you deserve as a child of God?

**True liberty in Christ is a renewable process in which we maintain constant touch with heaven.**

When you have freedom in Christ, you have a burning desire to obey, love, and know God. It is the ability to know the truth about God as revealed in the Scriptures. When you experience that freedom, the Holy Spirit will inform your understanding of the Word of God and help you apply it to your own life.

By indulging in legalism and licentiousness, we welcome pride and arrogance and embrace self-righteousness.That is what happened to many members of the church in Galatia. Many of them disregarded the liberty they had obtained through Christ. They thought that they could obtain salvation only through observing the laws and regulations that characterized their lives before they accepted Christ as Savior.

Others thought that the liberty they had acquired through Christ had no limits and responsibility.True liberty in Christ is a renewable process in which we maintain constant touch with heaven to achieve our daily victory against Satan and sin. Here are some steps you can follow to acquire true freedom in Christ:

_1. Always be on the winning side of the controversy._ There is a constant battle between God and Satan. However, God is all-powerful, and through Christ He defeated Satan on the cross. Therefore, you are not helpless in the battle. Once you accept Christ as your personal Savior, you are in the best position to resist the devil’s attacks.

_2. Free your mind of evil thoughts._ Both God and Satan are competing for your mind. Fill your mind with the Holy Spirit, and you will be able to overcome the lies of the enemy and experience total freedom.

_3. Move closer to God._ When you face temptations and hardships in life, learn to pray and move closer to God.

**React**

`1. What else can you do to ensure that you gain freedom in Christ?`

`2. The devil is full of lies (Gen. 3:4). How can you resist the lies to obtain freedom in Christ?`

_Esther Aoko, Nairobi, Kenya_