---
title:  Obtaining Freedom in the Law
date:   07/09/2017
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 19:19

In His counsel to the rich young man (Matt. 19:16–22), Christ pointed out therightprescriptionthattheyoungman needed to obtaineternallife.Inmany cases, young adults are blessed with energy and drive, good knowledge, good jobs, and in some cases a lot of money. The rich young man probably had all these, but he was still concerned about his preparedness for eternal life. If freedom in Christ could come through riches, knowledge, or youth, he had no reason to approach Christ for counsel.

**It is possible to experience freedom in Christ by remaining obedient to God’s law.**

However, he wanted to know what his duty was and how he could be free here on earth in preparation for the life to come.According to him, he had kept the law (verse 20). However, he still felt a vacuum in his life, which barred him from experiencing true freedom in Christ.

Like the rich young man in this story, sometimes I feel a space in my life that should be filled in order to experience liberty in Christ.For the young man, Christ challenged him to sell all his possessions and donate the proceeds to the poor.Then he could begin his walk with Jesus.Unhappy with this counsel, he walked away sorrowful (verse 22).

There is no way we can experience freedom in Christ if we do not submit to God inwardly and denounce Satan outwardly. The role of the law or the commandments is to help us take a detailed inventory of our lives and identify where we need to adjust in our relationship with God or with humans. If we make a serious commitment to Scripture, our understanding of the law will be different.We will use the law not as legalists to earn God’s favor but as a way to thank God and to follow His requirements as revealed in the Scriptures.

It is possible to experience freedom in Christ by remaining obedient to God’s law. While doing that, heavenly treasures must override worldly riches and material wealth.Besides, we must allow Christ to rule over our lives.This means that “we duly attend upon his ordinances, strictly conform to his pattern, and cheerfully submit to his disposals, and by upright and universal obedience observe his statutes, and keep his laws.”*

**React**

`How does God’s law relate to total freedom in Christ?`

<sup>* Matthew Henry’s Commentary, “Matthew 19,” Christianity.com, accessed May 24, 2016, http://www.christianity.com/bible/commentary.php?com=mh&b=40&c=19.</sup>

_Ruth Otieno, Homa-Bay, Kenya_