---
title:  Images Of Unity
date:  03/11/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Pet. 2:9; Exod. 19:5, 6; Eph. 2:19-22; 1 Cor. 3:16, 17; 1 Cor. 12:12-26; John 10:1-11; Psalm 23.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “For as the body is one and has many members, but all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ” (1 Corinthians 12:12, NKJV).

As anyone who has studied the Bible knows, it is filled with images and symbols that point to realities greater than those images and symbols themselves. For instance, the essence of the whole biblical sacrificial system is, in a sense, symbolic of the much greater reality: Jesus and the entire plan of salvation.

Many other kinds of images are used in the Bible, and sometimes from the most basic elements, too—such as water, fire, wind. Depending upon the context, these are images for spiritual and theological truths. For example, when Jesus said, “ ‘The wind blows wherever it pleases. You hear its sound, but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it is going. So it is with everyone born of the Spirit’ ” (John 3:8, NIV), the wind was used as a symbol for the Holy Spirit.

The Bible uses a number of images to describe the kind of unity we find in the church, the unity that God calls it to manifest before the world. Each individual image is not complete in and of itself. Instead, as a whole, these images reveal many things about church unity, such as the church’s relationship to God, the members’ relationships to one another, and the church’s relationship to the community as a whole.

This week’s lesson will look at some of the images and what they reveal to us about unity in Christ.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, November 10._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

If there were no church discipline and government, the church would go to fragments; it could not hold together as a body. There have ever been individuals of independent minds who have claimed that they were right, that God had especially taught, impressed, and led them. Each has a theory of his own, views peculiar to himself, and each claims that his views are in accordance with the word of God. . . . These draw away from the body, and each one is a separate church of himself. All these cannot be right, yet they all claim to be led of the Lord.  

Our Saviour follows His lessons of instruction with a promise that if two or three should be united in asking anything of God it should be given them. Christ here shows that there must be union with others, even in our desires for a given object. Great importance is attached to the united prayer, the union of purpose. . . .There must be an agreement in the things which they desire and for which they pray. It was not merely the thoughts and exercises of one mind, liable to deception; but the petition was to be the earnest desire of several minds centered on the same point.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 3, pp. 428, 429.

Let no one think that there need not be a stroke [of correction] placed upon him. There is no person, no nation, that is perfect in every habit and thought. One must learn of another. Therefore God wants the different nationalities to mingle together, to be one in judgment, one in purpose. Then the union that there is in Christ will be exemplified.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 9, pp. 180, 181.

We are living in a time when every true Christian must maintain a living connection with God. The world is flooded with sophistries of the enemy, and we are safe only as we learn lessons of truth from the Great Teacher. The solemn work in which we are engaged demands of us a strong, united effort under divine leadership. 

The Lord desires His workers to counsel together, not to move independently. Those who are set as ministers and guides to the people should pray much when they meet together. This will give wonderful help and courage, binding heart to heart and soul to soul, leading every man to unity and peace and strength in his endeavors.—_Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers_, p. 485.

Heaven and holy angels are working to unite, to bring into the unity of the faith, into the one body. Satan opposes this, and is determined to scatter, and divide, and bring in different sentiments . . . . Jesus designed that the faith of His people should be one. If one goes forth preaching one thing, and another differing with him preaches something else, how can those who believe through their word be one?—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 1, pp. 326, 327. 