---
title:  Christ’s Message to Thyatira
date:  14/01/2019
---

In comparison with other cities, Thyatira had no political or cultural significance that we know of. Furthermore, the church was obscure. In order to run a business or have a job, people in the Roman Empire had to belong to trade guilds. Thyatira was especially noted for enforcing this requirement. Guild members had to attend the guild festivals and participate in temple rituals, which often included immoral activities. Those who did not comply faced exclusion from the guilds and economic sanctions. For Christians at that time, that meant choosing between total compromise or total exclusion for the sake of the gospel.

`Read Revelation 2:18–29. How does Jesus present Himself to the church in Thyatira (see also Dan. 10:6)? What were the qualities that Jesus commended the church for, and what issue troubled it?`

Like the church in Pergamum, the church in Thyatira was pushed to compromise with the pagan environment. The name “Jezebel” refers to the wife of King Ahab, who led Israel into apostasy (1 Kings 16:31–33). Jesus portrays Jezebel as spiritually immoral (Rev. 2:20). Those church members who compromised the truth and adopted “unclean” pagan ideas and practices were committing spiritual adultery with her.

The church in Thyatira symbolizes the condition of Christianity from a.d. 538 to 1565. During this time, the danger to God’s people did not come from outside the church but from within. Tradition replaced the Bible, a human priesthood and sacred relics replaced Christ’s priesthood, and works were regarded as the means of salvation. Those who did not accept these corrupting influences were persecuted and even killed. For centuries the true church found refuge in wilderness areas (see Rev. 12:6, 13, 14). But Jesus also commends the church in Thyatira for their faith and love, works and service—pointing to the Reformation and the beginnings of a return to the Bible.

`Think about the words of Revelation 2:25: “ ‘ “Hold fast what you have till I come” ’ ” (NKJV). What do those words mean to us, both corporately and individually? What do we have from Jesus that we must hold on to?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Jews had departed from God, and in their teaching had substituted their own traditions for the divine law. The life and teachings of Christ made plain and distinct the principles of this violated law. The heavenly host understood that the object of His mission was to exalt the Father’s law and make it honorable, and to justify its claims.—_The Signs of the Times,_ August 25, 1887.

The work of Christ is to draw men from the false and spurious to the true and genuine. “He that followeth Me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.” There is no danger of going into error while we follow in the footsteps of “the Light of the world.” . . . 

The Jews were led into error and ruin, and to the rejection of the Lord of glory, because they knew not the Scriptures, nor the power of God. A great work is before us,—to lead men to take God’s word as the rule of their lives, to make no compromise with tradition and custom, but to walk in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord.—_Fundamentals of Christian Education, _p. 128. 

If the servants of God keep faithfully the trust given to them, great will be their reward. . . . The earnest toil, the unselfish work, the patient, persevering effort, will be abundantly rewarded. Jesus will say, Henceforth I call you not servants, but friends. [See John 15:15.] The approval of the Master is not given because of the greatness of the work performed, but because of fidelity in all that has been done. It is not the results we attain, but the motives from which we act, that weigh with God. He prizes goodness and faithfulness above all else.—_Gospel Workers,_ p. 267.

Hold fast to the comfort, the faith, the hope, that God has given you in His Word. Never be discouraged. A discouraged man can do nothing. Satan is seeking to discourage you, telling you it is of no use to serve God, that it does not pay, and that it is just as well to have pleasure and enjoyment in this world. But “what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul”? You may have worldly pleasure at the expense of the future world; but can you afford to pay such a price? We are to “hold fast” and live up to all the light we receive from heaven. . . .When you gave yourself to Christ, you made a pledge in the presence of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit,—the three great personal Dignitaries of heaven. “Hold fast” to this pledge. . . .

The enemy can never take out of the hand of Christ the one who is simply trusting in His promises. If the soul is trusting and working obediently, the mind is susceptible to divine impressions, and the light of God shines in, enlightening the understanding. What privileges we have in Christ Jesus!—_Sons and Daughters of God,_ p. 351.  