---
title:  Christ’s Message to Sardis
date:  15/01/2019
---

Sardis had a glorious history. But by the Roman period, the city had lost its prestige. While the city was still enjoying wealth, its glory was rooted in its past history rather than in present reality. The ancient city had been built on top of a steep hill and was nearly impregnable. Because the citizens felt so secure, the city walls were guarded carelessly.

`Read Revelation 3:1–6  along with Matthew 24:42–44 and 1 Thessalonians 5:1–8. What three things does Jesus urge the Christians in Sardis to do as a cure for their spiritual condition? How did Jesus’ warning to “watch” correspond to the city’s history?`

While Jesus recognizes a few Christians in Sardis as faithful, most of them are spiritually dead. The church is not charged with any open sin or apostasy (as are those in Pergamum and Thyatira) but with spiritual lethargy.

The message to the church in Sardis applies prophetically to the spiritual situation of the Protestants in the post-Reformation period, from approximately 1565 to 1740, as the church degenerated into lifeless formalism and a state of spiritual complacency. Under the impact of the rising tide of rationalism and secularism, the church’s focus on the saving grace of the gospel and commitment to Christ waned, giving place to creedal and dry philosophical arguments. The church of this period, although appearing to be alive, was spiritually dead.

Jesus’ message to Sardis also applies to every generation of Christians. There are Christians who always talk in glorious terms of their past faithfulness to Christ. Unfortunately, these same Christians do not have much to share about their present experience with Christ. Their religion is nominal, lacking the true religion of the heart and genuine commitment to the gospel.

`Keeping ever before us the great truth of salvation by faith in Christ alone, in what ways could we say that our works have not been found “perfect” before God? What does that mean, and how can we “perfect” our works before Him? See Matt. 5:44–48.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We know not the exact time of our Lord’s coming. But whether it be this year, or next year, or in several years, Christ has told us that He will come as a thief in the night. He says unto all, “Watch.” To very, very many, He will come in such an hour as they think not. At the time of His coming, men will be asking, “Where is the promise of His coming?” . . .

If ever God’s watchmen needed to be on their guard, it is now. . . . The trumpet must give a certain sound. There will be a general proclamation of truth, the whole earth will be enlightened with the glory of God, but those only will recognize the light who have sought to know the difference between holiness and sin.—_The Upward Look_, p. 365.

Those who name the name of Christ should shake off the lethargy that enfeebles their efforts, and should meet the momentous responsibilities that devolve upon them. All who do this may expect the power of God to be revealed in them. The Son of God, the world’s Redeemer, will be represented in their words and in their works, and God’s name will be glorified.—_The Sanctified Life,_ p. 41. 

Good works do not purchase the love of God, but they reveal that we possess that love. If we surrender our will and way to God, we will not work for God’s love; we will obey the commandments of God because it is right to do thus. The disciple John wrote, “We love him, because he first loved us” (1 John 4:19). The true spiritual life will be revealed in every soul who is doing service for Christ. Those who are alive to Christ are imbued with His spirit, and they cannot help working in His vineyard. They work the work of God. Let every soul think prayerfully, that he may act consistently.—Manuscript 120, August 23, 1899.  

The Lord is not far from the soul who seeks Him. The reason why so many are left to themselves in places of temptation is because they do not set the Lord ever before them. It is in the places where God is least thought of that you need to carry the lamp of life. If God be left out of sight, if our faith and our communion with God are broken, the soul is in positive danger. Integrity will not be maintained. 

The Lord is our Helper, our Defense. God has provided that no soul that trusts in Him shall be overcome by temptation. Christ is just as much with His believing ones when they are compelled to be associated in any sense with the world as when they meet in His house to worship Him. Think of these words: “Thou hast a few names even in Sardis which have not defiled their garments; and they shall walk with me in white: for they are worthy. He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life” (Revelation 3:4, 5).—_This Day With God,_ p. 232.