---
title:  The Good and the Bad, God’s Love Prevails
date:  25/05/2019
---

**Introduction**: Job 1; 2; Ps. 27:13, 14

Although we are not promised a life free of trials and tribulations, we are called to claim the Word of God. We are promised a God who will walk beside us during our time of need. These trials and tribulations often come to test our faith and trust in God, but we sometimes lose it when our health is challenged or when life gets rocky. During this time, we may experience deep pains that become unbearable when we try to deal with them ourselves or question the authority of God as Job and his friends did.

The story of Job reveals to us the power and divinity of Christ while illustrating the manipulative antics of the devil. Satan wielded the weather, invoked illness (Job 1:16–19; 2:7), and even influenced Job’s friends just to get him to curse God. Just as he did with Job, the devil spends days, nights, and even years trying to get us to curse God during our times of pain and anguish. Can you see the relation of Job’s situation in your life?

What of David, a man after God’s own heart? Throughout the book of Psalms, David acknowledges his trials, enemies, grief, and struggles. Yet he still concludes the psalms by declaring God’s faithfulness, acknowledging his life to be a living testimony of God’s love for humanity.

We have all lost loved ones, employment, material possessions, or relationships. But I encourage you to have an enlightened and positive mind-set to choose to see the hand of God in everything that takes place in your life. We are capable of losing anything and everything. But we serve a mighty God who is capable of restoring us in His glory whenever we fall short and feel helpless.

This week, we will study how God’s love transcends the pain experienced through the people and events we lose in our lives. He has a plan that manifests itself when we give Him our deepest level of worship— when we thank God during our trials and trust Him when we are tempted to lose hope.

---

_Ugochi Nkoronye, Orlando, Florida, USA_