---
title:  Rx for When Loss Brings Sorrow
date:  27/05/2019
---

**Testimony**: Ps. 147:3

“Are you filled with sorrow today? Fasten your eyes on the Sun of righteousness. Do not try to adjust all the difficulties, but turn your face to the light, to the throne of God. What will you see there? The rainbow of the covenant, the living promise of God. Beneath it is the mercy seat, and whosoever avails himself of the provisions of mercy that have been made and appropriates the merits of the life and death of Christ has in the rainbow of the covenant a blessed assurance of acceptance with the Father as long as the throne of God endures.

“. . . Put your hand in the hand of Christ. There are difficulties to be overcome, but angels that excel in strength will cooperate with the people of God.”1

“Let the soul be drawn out and upward, that God may grant us a breath of the heavenly atmosphere. We may keep so near to God that in every unexpected trial our thoughts will turn to Him as naturally as the flower turns to the sun. Keep your wants, your joys, your sorrows, your cares, and your fears before God. You cannot burden Him; you cannot weary Him. He who numbers the hairs of your head is not indifferent to the wants of His children. . . . Take to Him everything that perplexes the mind. Nothing is too great for Him to bear, for He holds up worlds, He rules over all the affairs of the universe. Nothing that in any way concerns our peace is too small for Him to notice. There is no chapter in our experience too dark for Him to read; there is no perplexity too difficult for Him to unravel. No calamity can befall the least of His children, no anxiety harass the soul, no joy cheer, no sincere prayer escape the lips, of which our heavenly Father is unobservant, or in which He takes no immediate interest. . . . The relations between God and each soul are as distinct and full as though there were not another soul upon earth to share His watchcare, not another soul for whom He gave His beloved Son.”2

**React**

`1. Based on the counsel above, what are the key components that facilitate resilience during adversity and times of loss?`

`2. Since all families have problems, how do ordinary families cope with their life challenges of loss? Share your experiences.`

`3. How can your church nurture those who are facing significant loss? Share your ideas with your pastor.`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Mind, Character, and Personality, vol. 2, p. 462.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pp. 99, 100.</sup>

_Dawn Forde Murphy, Weirsdale, Florida, USA_