---
title:  The Supreme Supersedes
date:  28/05/2019
---

**Evidence**: Phil. 3:8

Paul delivered a seismic blow to a fundamental Jewish perception during a sermon in Philippi. For generations they had believed that men who complied with physical circumcision were thus entitled to a proverbial halo. Forsaking God’s plain instruction to circumcise the foreskin of their hearts and then allow God unhindered access, they rejected spiritual circumcision. Paul elucidated “the circumcision” to comprise those who worship God in Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and depend completely upon Him (Phil. 3:3). Unabashedly, he revealed his pre-conversion litany of boasts:

“Circumcised on the eighth day”—according to God in Genesis 17:12.

“Of the stock of Israel”—a direct descendant of the patriarch (Rom. 11:1).

“Of the tribe of Benjamin”—the tribe of Israel’s first king, Saul (1 Sam. 9:1, 2).

“A Hebrew of Hebrews”—a perfect pedigree (Deut. 14:2).

“A Pharisee”—an exemplary keeper of Mosaic law and traditions (Acts 23:6).

Though he had believed he was ready for translation, the Damascus road epiphany wrought spiritual circumcision, and Paul no longer valued those things (Phil. 3:8). The Greek word for loss, zēmian,1 was also used in Acts 27:21 to refer to the loss endured sailing from Crete. After being refreshed by friends, whatever possessions Paul had, he regarded “as loss in comparison with the knowledge of Christ, even as seamen do the goods on which they set a high value, in comparison with their lives. Valuable as they may be, they are willing to throw them all overboard in order to save themselves.”2

After his conversion, Paul went back to preach in Tarsus (Gal. 1:21). His strict Pharisee family would have endured shame beholding the former poster child of Pharisaism interact with the uncircumcised. So Paul’s calling to the Gentiles likely precipitated the loss of most of his family ties.

Even a revered existence becomes skubalon,3 the Greek for “rubbish.” In this, its sole New Testament occurrence, “no language could express a deeper sense of utter worthlessness of all that external advantages can confer in the matter of salvation.”4 Christ is supreme, and every other person and thing must be a distant second.

---

<sup>1. The KJV New Testament Greek Lexicon. Strong’s number 2209.</sup>

<sup>2. Albert Barnes, “Philippians 3:8,” Notes on the Bible, 1834, http://www.sacred-texts.com /bib/cmt/barnes/index.htm.</sup>

<sup>3. The KJV New Testament Greek Lexicon. Strong’s number 4657.</sup>

<sup>4. William R. Nicoll, “The Good the Enemy of the Best,” Expositor’s Dictionary of Texts.</sup>

_Tamra Clarke, Leesburg, Florida, USA_