---
title:  Finding Life After a Loss
date:  29/05/2019
---

**How-to**: Ps. 30:5; Prov. 4:7; John 10:10

When God created the first family, it was His plan that the members would experience a union that was filled with love and happiness. The idea that hurt and even loss would become part of that union was not a concept that He willed for them or any family thereafter. God’s Word says that He wishes that we would experience abundant life! Sadly, sin has disrupted that plan. We have seen the toll that sin has thrust on the family unit. Families have experienced a loss of trust, faith, communication, and even the literal loss of loved ones. How can we learn how to labor through these losses and strive to live in the abundance of joy that God intended? Here are a couple of recommendations for finding life after a loss:

Look for understanding (Prov. 4:7). When we think of losing something, often our next thought is understanding where we can find it. We begin to rack our brains for where we were the last time we had it. It’s the same when we lose certain parts of a relationship we share with another. We try to recall when the last time we trusted them was and how they can restore that trust.

When we lose something that is of value to us, we start to retrace our steps, trying desperately to recover what’s been lost. We look under cushions, in pants’ pockets; sometimes we’ll even take a lengthy drive to search the parking lot where we stood hours earlier. It is similar when recovering a valuable relationship. We must seek where we were when we lost that essential characteristic. God wants to restore our family relationships, and if we earnestly seek His help in learning how to find what was lost, He is willing to help us.

Search the Word. God promises that He will never put more on us than we can bear. It is without a doubt that when we experience loss in our families, no matter in what capacity, He will provide a way for us to experience wholeness again. In the Bible, we can read stories of families that experienced loss and greater examples of their victory through Christ over losses. The stories of Lazarus, Joseph and his brothers, and Moses and his family teach us how, through faith, love, and forgiveness, God restores families during a time when they need it the most. God’s Word is an open book of instruction to guide us to wholeness.

**React**

`What other examples can you think of in the Bible of families who have overcome some type of loss?`

---

_Jillian Haughton, Orlando, Florida, USA_