---
title:  Loss of Freedom
date:  30/05/2019
---

**Opinion**: Luke 16:13; Rom. 6:16

At Creation, humankind was given the ability to reason, analyze, and make choices about who or what to obey, thus, making ourselves slaves to God or to man (Luke 16:13). Even the smallest areas in which we choose to be obedient make us slaves either positively or negatively. This is the manner in which the brain develops a habit.

Neuroscientists have determined that habit-making behaviors and decisions occur in two different parts of the brain. When behaviors become automatic, the decision-making part of the brain essentially goes to sleep, thereby creating a habit. Through a series of micro-decisions, we build habits and create “bonds” with one side or the other, eventually repeating these decisions so often that the brain operates on autopilot, essentially, choosing freedom or bondage. Jesus admonishes in Luke 16:13 that no one can serve two masters. When we build habits, we are choosing whom we will serve. This service may not seem obvious to others; however, God looks at our hearts, and we are either bound to Him with cords of love or in league with the evil one, giving up our liberty with each bad choice.

This loss of freedom may manifest in different ways. Poor relational decisions may lead to a loss of trust; poor food habits may lead to a loss of health; and poor stewardship decisions may lead to a loss of resources (natural, financial, and/or human). While initially these losses may not feel as though they are of any consequence, they do result in a loss of our freedom. This loss of freedom creates a chasm between us and God and is in direct opposition to His will. In the same way, when Eve touched, consumed, and shared the fruit, a familial division was created that could be restored only through the ultimate sacrifice in the family. Through separation and loss, the feeling of guilt—recognizing one’s own shortcomings—is a gift from our loving Father by His Spirit (Ps. 32:1–5). It is through this gift that we are able to honestly repent and rely on His redemptive power to restore us to righteousness. God’s Holy Spirit is like a lens through which we can see where we have fallen short of God’s glory, the first step toward restoration.

**React**

`Just as sin is part of this world, so is a loss of spiritual and literal freedom. What can we do to identify when the smallest decisions are creating a separation between us and God?`

---

_Opal Leighvard, Orlando, Florida, USA_