---
title:  Coping
date:  31/05/2019
---

**Exploration**: Luke 23:46

**Conclude**

We all experience loss in different ways, and we all need to find ways to cope with our losses. While the loss of a loved one, especially under tragic circumstances, might be among the most difficult to deal with, we cannot minimize the effect other losses have as well. A child whose parents separate by divorce experiences a loss, as does someone who loses their means of sustenance through retrenchment. Losing your home through forced relocation and loss of freedom through incarceration or disability because of an accident or illness can also be very devastating. And because in this life we are bound to experience some losses, we must be prepared and equipped to deal with it in a way that will bring healing. Jesus will lift your burdens. So while a loss may make you feel as if God has abandoned you, that is the time to pray without ceasing, staying always in touch and in tune with your heavenly Father and knowing that He will always have your back, now and into eternity.

**Consider**

- Finding ways to release the pain, such as crying. Crying does not equate to weakness—even Jesus wept.
- Reaching out to a trusted family member, a friend, your pastor, or a counselor to talk about your pain.
- Going to a therapist when you are uncomfortable sharing with anyone else.
- Praying for others who may be experiencing a loss similar to yours.
- Reaching out to someone who needs your help.
- Keeping a prayer in your heart as Jesus did while He suffered on the cross when He spoke to His Father (Luke 23:46).


**Connect**

Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, chap. 14, “Shall Not God Avenge His Own?”

Larry Yeagley, Life After Loss (Review and Herald®, 1999); Heartache and Healing (TEACH Services, 2012).

---

_Paul Clarke, Orlando, Florida, USA_