---
title:  Reading the Master Teacher’s Mind
date:  27/10/2020
---

`What concern about the Christian community in Philippi is on Paul’s heart as he writes his letter to them? Phil. 2:1–4; Phil. 4:2, 3.`

Philippians 2:1-11 is one of the most profound passages in all the Bible. It discusses the preexistence of Christ, His divinity, His incarnation, His humanity, His acceptance of death on the cross. It describes the long, difficult, downward road that Jesus took from heaven to Calvary (Phil. 2:5–8). And it describes how the Father exalts Jesus to a position of universal worship (Phil. 2:9–11). A lot of amazing truth is packed into those verses.

`How does Paul introduce Philippians 2:5–11? Of the events of Jesus’ life that he celebrates, which ones do you think he expects believers to reflect in their own lives? Phil. 2:6–11.`

Paul hopes that the believers at Philippi, who could be argumentative, will learn from Jesus and His incarnation. If Jesus could adopt human form—“the form of a slave, being born in human likeness” (Phil. 2:7, NRSV)—and even submit to crucifixion, how much more should they submit to each other out of love?

We are reminded that there is much to learn from the Master Teacher, Jesus. We learn from the messages that He shares during His earthly ministry. We learn from the miracles that He performs and the way that He acts toward others. We may seek to model our own relationships with others after His great condescension and by dwelling on His willingness to exchange the glories of heaven for a manger (what a lesson for us!).

In contrast, the world all too often invites us to exalt ourselves, to boast of our accomplishments. At a manger in Bethlehem and from the Master Teacher we learn a different lesson—that God’s great work of education and salvation is accomplished not by exalting ourselves but by humbling ourselves before God and becoming servants to others.

`What situation are you facing, even now, in which your humbling yourself could give you a powerful opportunity to reflect Christ to others?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"Too often when wrongs are committed again and again, and the wrongdoer confesses his fault, the injured one becomes weary, and thinks he has forgiven quite enough. But the Saviour has plainly told us how to deal with the erring: “If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him.” Luke 17:3. ...

If your brethren err, you are to forgive them. When they come to you with confession, you should not say, I do not think they are humble enough. I do not think they feel their confession. What right have you to judge them, as if you could read the heart? The word of God says, “If he repent, forgive him. And if he trespasses against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turn again to thee, saying, I repent; thou shalt forgive him.” Luke 17:3, 4. And not only seven times, but seventy times seven—just as often as God forgives you. _– Christ's Object Lessons, p. 249, par. 1-2 –"_

"Jesus now explained to His disciples that His own life of self-abnegation was an example of what theirs should be. Calling about Him, with the disciples, the people who had been lingering near, He said, “If any man will come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow Me.” The cross was associated with the power of Rome. It was the instrument of the most cruel and humiliating form of death. ... But Jesus bade His followers take up the cross and bear it after Him. ... No more complete self-surrender could the Saviour’s words have pictured. But all this He had accepted for them. Jesus did not count heaven a place to be desired while we were lost. He left the heavenly courts for a life of reproach and insult, and a death of shame. He who was rich in heaven’s priceless treasure, became poor, that through His poverty we might be rich. We are to follow in the path He trod. _– The Desire of Ages, p. 416, par. 3 –"_

"It was for the joy that was set before Him—that He might bring many sons unto glory—that He endured the cross and despised the shame. And inconceivably great as was the sorrow and the shame, yet greater is the joy and the glory. He looks upon the redeemed, renewed in His own image, every heart bearing the perfect impress of the divine, every face reflecting the likeness of their King. He beholds in them the result of the travail of His soul, and He is satisfied. Then, in a voice that reaches the assembled multitudes of the righteous and the wicked, He declares: “Behold the purchase of My blood! For these I suffered, for these I died, that they might dwell in My presence throughout eternal ages.” And the song of praise ascends from the white-robed ones about the throne: “Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing.” Revelation 5:12. _– The Great Controversy, p. 671, par. 1 –"_