---
title:  Further Thought
date:  30/10/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Teacher Sent From God,” pp. 73–83, in Education.

“In the Teacher sent from God, all true educational work finds its center. Of this work today as verily as of the work He established eighteen hundred years ago, the Saviour speaks in the words—

“ ‘I am the First and the Last, and the Living One.’

“ ‘I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end.’ Revelation 1:17, 18, R.V.; 21:6, R.V.

“In the presence of such a Teacher, of such opportunity for divine education, what worse than folly is it to seek an education apart from Him—to seek to be wise apart from Wisdom; to be true while rejecting Truth; to seek illumination apart from the Light, and existence without the Life; to turn from the Fountain of living waters, and hew out broken cisterns, that can hold no water.

“Behold, He is still inviting: ‘If any man thirst, let him come unto Me, and drink. He that believeth on Me, as the Scripture hath said,’ out of him ‘shall flow rivers of living water.’ ‘The water that I shall give him shall become in him a well of water springing up unto eternal life.’ John 7:37, 38; 4:14, R.V.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 83.

“Dear teacher, . . .

“As the highest preparation for your work, I point you to the words, the life, the methods, of the Prince of teachers. I bid you consider Him. Here is your true ideal. Behold it, dwell upon it, until the Spirit of the divine Teacher shall take possession of your heart and life.

“ ‘Reflecting as a mirror the glory of the Lord,’ you will be ‘transformed into the same image.’

2 Corinthians 3:18, R.V.

“This is the secret of power over your pupils. Reflect Him.”—Education, p. 282.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What values and actions would be important to Christian teachers and students who take seriously the idea of learning from the incarnation of the Master Teacher?`

`Christian parents and teachers have a high standard—to reflect the character of God as revealed in the incarnation of Jesus. What should we do when we fall short of this high standard?`

`In class, discuss the question at the end of Thursday’s study. What does the birth, life, and death of Jesus teach us about the character of God? Why should this be so comforting to us, especially during times of great trial?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Faith I Live By, "A Personal God," p. 40

Steps to Christ, "Repentance," p. 24