---
title:  America and Babylon
date:   02/06/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Revelation 13:1–12; Revelation 14:9–11; Revelation 16:2; Revelation 19:20.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘There will be a time of much trouble. It will be the worst time since nations have been on earth. But your people will be saved. Everyone whose name is written in God’s book will be saved’ ” (Daniel 12:1, ICB).

Last week, we learned about the false three-in-one God. This god is made up of two powers on Earth who join with the dragon (Satan). Together, they attack God’s people.

The Bible shows a wild animal coming from the sea (Revelation 13:1–10). This animal is the first of the two powers on Earth. This animal is a mix of three other animals (Revelation 13:2). Together, these four animals are word pictures for four kingdoms: Babylon (lion), Media-Persia (bear), Greece (leopard) (Daniel 7:4–6), and Rome (the little- horn power) (Daniel 7:7, 8, 19–21, 23–25). Rome started out as a kingdom. Later, it became a religious power. The little-horn power grew out of the Roman Kingdom. In Daniel 7, we learned about things the little-horn power did. The wild animal that comes from the sea, in Revelation 13:1– 10, does many of these same things too. So, many Bible experts believe the Roman Catholic Church is one of the powers that will try to destroy God’s people in the last days.

But the Roman Church is not alone in its attack on God’s people. Revelation warns us that another power will join the Roman Church and the dragon. This week we will study about the things Revelation 13 warns will happen in the last days.
