---
title:  When The Deep Cut Is Healed
date:   03/06/2018
---

`Read Revelation 13:1–10. How do these verses show the work of the Catholic Church in the past and in the future?`

God has loyal followers in all churches, including the Roman Catholic Church. At the same time, the Bible clearly points to the awful things that the Roman Catholic Church did in the past. The Bible also shows us that the ruling power that controls this church will have a big part in the things that happen in the last days.

`Read Revelation 13:3. What is happening in this verse? What does the truth in this verse teach us about the Roman Catholic Church’s power and fame?`

For hundreds of years, the Roman Catholic Church was the most important religion. In many ways, the Roman Catholic Church also was the government leader for all the countries in Western Europe. An example of the Roman Catholic Church’s power can be seen in the story about King Henry the Fourth. Henry was the ruler over Germany. Henry made Pope Gregory the Seventh very mad. So, Henry went to the pope’s castle to say he was sorry and make peace. The pope made Henry wait outside in the cold winter for three days. Then Henry was allowed to see the pope. Pope Gregory bragged afterward that it was his job to show kings that they must not feel proud.

After many wars and changes in Europe, Rome’s power ended in the late 1700s. In 1798, the French army made Pope Pius the Sixth a prisoner. The pope died one year later.

Revelation 13 warns us that the Catholic Church will grow strong again in the future. Revelation uses the word picture of a head with a deep cut. This cut should cause death. But the cut is healed to show that the Catholic Church will get its power back. Today, Rome does not have the same power it did in the days of Pope Gregory the Seventh. But the Catholic Church has grown in power again. One example of the Catholic Church’s power can be seen in Pope Francis’s talking to the American Congress in 2015. That talk never happened before in history. But that is only the beginning. The messages in the Bible about the future warn us that the Catholic Church’s power will continue to grow stronger.

`How can we share the truth about the Catholic Church in a loving and kind way with other people?`
