---
title:  The United States and the Last Days
date:   04/06/2018
---

People ask: “How can the Roman Catholic Church have the same power today, or in the future, that Revelation 13 says it will have?” The answer is found in Revelation 13.

`Revelation 13:11, 12 describes a power. What things in this description help us to know who this power is?`

First, Revelation shows another wild animal power that comes before the wild animal power that comes from the ground. Many Bible thinkers say that this first wild animal is a word picture for the Catholic Church. Revelation says that the Catholic Church would be given power for 42 months (Revelation 13:5). The 42 months is the same time as the “time, times, and half a time (three and a half years)” in Daniel 7:25 (NLV). The 42 months also is the same time as the three and a half years in Revelation 12:14. The 42 months also is the same as the 1,260 days in Revelation 12:6. These 1,260 days mean 1,260 years. During those 1,260 years, the Catholic Church attacked anyone who disagreed with her teachings. The 1,260 years started in a.d. 538 and ended in 1798. That was the year the pope was made a prisoner. At this time, the Roman Church got its death wound. So, the Bible’s message about the Roman Church came true.

At this time in history, another power appears (Revelation 13:1, 11). This wild animal power comes from the ground. The other powers came out of water (read Daniel 7:2, 3). Water is a word picture for many people (Revelation 17:15). For these reasons and other reasons, this new wild animal power from the earth must be the United States. This nation became a strong power in a place on this earth where there were no other kingdoms.

Revelation describes the wild animal power that came from the ground. This animal has two horns that look the same as a lamb’s horns (Revelation 13:11). These two horns are a word picture for something gentle. But the lamb will talk “like [the same as] a dragon” (Revelation 13:11, ERV). This verse tells us about a time when this power will attack God’s people in the same way the Catholic Church attacked God’s people in the past. Revelation 13:11–17 answers the question: How will the Catholic Church again have the power it had in the past? The answer: the Catholic Church will have the power of the United States behind it. That is how.
