---
title:  A Fight Over Worship
date:   05/06/2018
---

The history in the Bible shows us again and again how the Lord had to work to save His people from bowing down to statues and taking part in false worship (read Matthew 4:8–10). Revelation 13 shows us this same thing will be true in the last days. God’s people will need to make a choice. Who will they worship (read Joshua 24:15)?

In lesson two, we studied about the three Hebrew boys. The king of Babylon commanded these three Hebrew boys to “worship the gold statue” (Daniel 3:5, NIrV). We saw that Revelation 13 uses the same words as Daniel 3 to warn God’s people about the attacks against them in the last days. The story in Daniel 3 shows us what will happen to God’s people in the last days. The king commanded every- one to worship the gold statue. Anyone who broke this rule would die in a hot furnace. In the same way, Revelation 13 tells us that anyone who does “not bow down and worship the image [something that is a copy] of the beast [the wild animal that comes from the sea] [will] be put to death” (Revelation 13:15, AMP).

`Read Revelation 14:9–11; Revelation 16:2; Revelation 19:20; and Revelation 20:4. What do these verses tell us about how big the quarrel over worship will become?`

Babylon always has been the city of false worship. The Tower of Babel showed that its builders wanted the same thing Lucifer wanted. They wanted to “ ‘rise above the tops of the clouds’ ” (Isaiah 14:14, NIrV). They also built the tower to save themselves from another worldwide flood. They did not believe God’s promise that He would never bring another worldwide flood on the earth (Genesis 9:8–11).

The new kingdom of Babylon also worshiped the work of human hands. King Nebuchadnezzar bragged: “ ‘Look at Babylon. I built this great [beautiful] city . . . to show how great [powerful] I am’ ” (Daniel 4:30, ICB). Later, King Belshazzar took the gold cups from Solomon’s temple. He and his guests drank wine out of them at a feast and praised their gods made from gold, silver, iron, wood, and stone (Daniel 5:3, 4). The wine made everyone drunk. Then the Persians attacked Babylon. Many people in Babylon died.

`How can we be sure we are not part of any false worship now?`
