---
title:  The Big and Powerful Babylon
date:   06/06/2018
---

`Read Jeremiah 51:6, 7, 53, 57; Zechariah 2:7; Revelation 17:5, 6; and Revelation 18:2, 3. What do these verses teach us about Babylon?`

As we saw yesterday, Babylon has a long history in the Bible as the city of false worship. So, it makes sense that the Bible uses Babylon as a word picture for a religious power who lies about God to people living in the last days.

`Read Revelation 12:3; Revelation 13:1–3; and Revelation 17:3. These verses describe the dragon, the wild animal that comes from the sea, and the wild animal that comes from the ground. These animals are word pictures for last-day powers. What is the same about each of these powers? What is different?`

All three animals are word pictures for kingdoms or governments that rule on the earth. The wild animal that comes from the sea is a word picture for the Old Roman Kingdom and the Roman Catholic Church. The wild animal that comes from the ground is a word picture that shows us that the dragon, the wild animal that comes from the sea, and the wild animal that comes from the ground will become a team. “These three powers are God’s enemies. They will join and work together as one power.”—Jacques B. Doukhan, Secrets of Revelation: The Apocalypse [the book of Revelation] Through [from the view of] Hebrew [Jewish] Eyes (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald® Publishing Association, 2002), page 162; adapted.

Revelation 17 also shows us a woman who rides on the back of the “ ‘red wild animal’ ” (Revelation 17:7, NLV). The woman on the back of the “ ‘red wild animal’ ” also is a word picture. The Bible uses it to show an unlawful “marriage” between government and religion in the last days. This woman on the back of the “ ‘red wild animal’ ” is very different from the holy woman, or church, in Revelation 12.

Babylon is the “ ‘mother of all women who sell the use of their bodies’ ” (Revelation 17:5, NLV). Another name for women who sell sex for money is prostitutes. As the “MOTHER OF PROSTITUTES” (ERV), Babylon has been busy making children. What does that mean? It means that the false mother church has given birth to many “daughters,” or false churches, on this earth. But God is not responsible for the false ideas taught by churches that break His law.
