---
title:  Come Out of that City, My People
date:   07/06/2018
---

Revelation 14:8 warns us that Babylon will fall away from the truth. Her fall into lies and false teachings will, in the end, lead to Satan’s final attack on God’s law. After Babylon’s fall from truth, a law will be made that causes everyone who is not loyal to God to accept the “beast’s [wild land animal’s] mark [the special proof of its power]” (Revelation 14:9–11; 18:1–4, ERV). The strong warning in Revelation 14:8 will be given again in the future. The people on the earth will be warned again to separate themselves from Babylon and her false teachings. God will invite the people in Babylon who are loyal to Him to leave Babylon and join His true last- day church (Revelation 18:1–4).

Clearly, we can see that things are happening on Earth just as the Bible said they would. But there are many more things that need to happen before we arrive at the end. That is why it is very important to be clear when we talk to people about the “beast’s [wild land animal’s] mark [the special proof of its power]” (Revelation 18:1–4, ERV). We must be clear to say that no one has the “beast’s mark” right now. That is true, even if someone is not obeying the Sabbath law.

`Read Revelation 18:1–4. What is happening in these verses? What do these verses teach us about our duty to all the people on the earth?`

These verses “paint” a very dark and hopeless picture about life on this earth. These verses show us the awful power that false religious teachings have on people’s minds and in their lives. At the same time, these verses also give us hope. They tell us about another angel from heaven. This angel brings to the whole earth the light of God’s glory. Also, God’s people are told to separate themselves from the false religion of Babylon. What does that command tell us about the work we must do? It tells us we must help God’s people who are a part of Babylon. We must continue working until the end of time to help free people’s minds.

`Why does the Lord name some of the people in Babylon “ ‘my people’ ” (Revelation 18:4, NLV)? Why is this truth very important for us to remember when we talk to other people about the special truth for this time?`
