---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   08/06/2018
---

Satan’s attack on God’s law is an attack on God Himself. Satan’s attack on God’s law also is an attack on God’s power and His government. So, it is no surprise that in the last days Satan will attack the people who “obey the Laws of God” (Revelation 12:17, NLV; Revelation 14:12). God’s loyal followers will be the only group of people left on Earth who refuse to honor or worship the false religion made by Satan. When God’s loyal followers refuse to honor this false religion, they show Satan they refuse to worship him. Satan will fight against God’s loyal followers on Earth the same way he fought against God in heaven. God defeated Satan in heaven. God will defeat Satan here on Earth too.

“From the start of the war in heaven, Satan wanted to get rid of God’s law. That is the reason why Satan went to war against God who made him. Satan was thrown out of heaven. But he continued his war against God on this earth. Satan tricks humans and lies to them. Satan’s plan is to get humans to break God’s law. He never stops working to lead humans to sin. Satan will try to make his evil plan succeed any way he can. He will try to get some humans to throw out all of God’s law. He will try to get other people to throw out only part of God’s law. Either way, there is no difference between these two things in the end. Why? Because the Bible says that a person who is guilty of breaking only one part of God’s law is guilty of breaking the whole law. James 2:10.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 582; adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. In class, talk about the things that are going on right now on the earth. How do the things that are happening right now show us what is going to happen in the last days? What things have not happened that need to happen before the final end comes? How can we learn to watch carefully for the things the Bible says will happen? At the same time, why do we need to avoid setting dates for things to happen? Why must we also avoid announcing things will happen that the Bible and Ellen G. White’s writings do not teach?

`2. Think more about the idea of worship. What does it mean to worship something?`
