---
title:  inGest
date:   03/08/2026
---

### Jesus’ Prayer for Himself

Jesus had much to pray about as He finished giving instructions to His disciples (John 13–16) and entered the garden where He would soon be arrested. Imagine the weight He felt. He had just shared difficult truths with His disciples, and He wished He could tell them more but knew they weren’t ready. Judas had already left and was in the process of betraying Him. Within hours, His three closest disciples would fall asleep when He needed their prayers, all the disciples would flee after His arrest, and Peter would deny Him.

Jesus began His prayer in John 17 by praying for Himself. With so much on His heart and mind, His prayer was surprisingly brief—and what He asked for is unexpected. This prayer is as much a teaching moment as it is a personal request. He knew the disciples could hear Him. The first thing He did was acknowledge that the hour had come, His time on earth was coming to an end, and prophecy was being fulfilled. Knowing what was about to happen, He asked the Father to glorify Him so that He, in turn, could glorify the Father. His greatest concern was that God would be glorified through it all.

Rehearsing the mission the Father had given Him, He acknowledged the responsibilities God had entrusted to Him. His work on earth was to give eternal life to those who know God. Here, Jesus defined eternal life in an unexpected way. We often think of eternal life as living in heaven, free from the burdens of this world. While that’s true, Jesus’ definition is entirely relational. He said eternal life is knowing God the Father intimately and knowing Jesus Christ, whom the Father sent. This means we don’t have to wait until heaven to experience the joy of eternal life. It begins here and now, as we grow in our relationship with Him—and one day, we get to enjoy that relationship _face to face._

Knowing that His mission to reconcile humanity to God depended on Him being reunited with His Father, Jesus then expressed deep longing to again be with the Father and enjoy the close relationship They shared before the world existed (John 17:5). He recognized that His purpose would not be accomplished until He returned to heaven and was restored to His place beside His Father.

**Questions to consider:**

`In what ways have you begun to enjoy eternal life as Jesus defined it?`

`How did Jesus glorify the Father while on the earth? What can you do to glorify the Father this week?`