---
title:  inTerpret
date:   04/08/2026
---

### Jesus’ Prayer for His Disciples

Jesus’ great burden as He prayed in John 17 was His disciples. He pled with His Father for “the men whom You have given Me”—a key phrase He repeated with slight variations five times during His prayer (John 17:6, 9, 11, 12, 24). Jesus felt a profound sense of responsibility for the disciples, with their care passed from the Father to Jesus and then back to the Father. We also see the Holy Spirit filling this role in John 14, 15, and 16. It’s deeply encouraging to know that the entire Godhead is caring for us.

The continuation of Christ’s mission to the world hinged on this humble little group of disciples. Their success depended on their faithfulness despite tremendous challenges and pressure from the world. They were to be “in the world” (John 17:11, 18), but “not of the world” (John 17:14, 16). Jesus calls His followers to be present but nonconforming. They are not to withdraw from society but are to mingle and associate with the people of the world without compromising their principles or practices. This beautiful paradox can be reality only to the extent that they’re personally transformed by the truth of God’s Word (John 17:17). Jesus entrusted His disciples with the responsibility of making Him known to the world. As the Father sent Him into the world, so He deployed His disciples into the world.

The outward threats of the world were not the disciples’ only risk factors. Perhaps their greatest challenges were their own inward struggles. There was much tension within the group. Politics, envy, pride, and selfish ambition often divided them. Jesus knew His disciples had to behave differently than people in the world. The things that divide the people of the world could not divide His disciples. He prayed that despite their differences, His disciples would come together and be united with one another (John 17:11). He prayed for togetherness and a deep spiritual oneness that reflected the oneness of Jesus and the Father.

Unfortunately, these prayers would not be answered in Judas’ life, a fact Jesus acknowledged (John 17:12). Judas had already departed, but Jesus had not forgotten him. Judas’ defection was deeply unsettling to other disciples, but this prayer reminds those who are listening that Jesus fully anticipated the betrayal.

Jesus’ love for His disciples is evident throughout this prayer. He had revealed the Father’s true heart to them, and He prayed for their unity, protection, and transformation—so that one day, they may be with Him again.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what are your main takeaways? What questions emerge? What parts are difficult?`

`How can we be a part of the world without conforming to it?`

`Memorize your favorite passage from John 17. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`