---
title:  inVite
date:   06/08/2026
---

### Jesus’ Prayer for Us

Jesus’ prayer for His disciples was not limited to the Twelve. He included us all when He prayed for “those who will believe in Me through their word” (John 17:20). Did you know that Jesus prayed for you? His prayers on earth were a small reflection of His continued intercession in heaven. Hebrews tells us that He “always lives to make intercession” for us (Heb. 7:25). There’s something deeply comforting about knowing someone is praying for you. Some people request a pastor or spiritual leader they respect to pray for them. But who better to have praying for you than Jesus Himself? Through Scripture, we can read and listen to Jesus’ prayer and know the very things He prayed on our behalf. What a gift!

Jesus prayed that we might be one with each another—not a superficial unity but a deep bondedness that can come only as a result of unity with Christ. He qualified this request in a way that amplified its power: that we may be one just as He and the Father are one. There is no greater unity than that of the Godhead, and Jesus desires that same unity for us. What an incredible thought! He longs for us to experience the perfectly selfless love that He and the Father share—love that They long to pour into our lives. Jesus didn’t just make this bold request; if we cooperate with Him, He also makes it a reality in our lives.

Unity with one another is part of the glory of His character that He wants to reveal through us (John 17:22). Just as the Father revealed His glory through Jesus’ life and ministry, so God wants to reveal His glory through our lives today. Once again, He makes this possible. Everything He taught in John 13–16 laid the foundation, revealing both the promises and the power to bring about this transformation. Here, in John 17, He was praying for God to fulfill it—not just for His disciples but also for you and me. This unity, love, and the fruit they produce will be evidence to the world that Jesus is real and His teachings are true (John 17:23).

Jesus looks forward to the time when we will finally be glorified with Him. He earnestly pleads, “Father, I desire that they also whom You gave Me may be with Me where I am” (John 17:24). His greatest longing is for us to be with Him in heaven. He wants us to see Him and the Father face to face and to know the depths of Their love.

**Questions to consider:**

`How does it feel to know that Jesus continually thinks about you and wants you to be with Him in heaven? How can you help others come to know this truth and receive it for themselves?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`