---
title:  inQuire
date:   08/08/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Praying for Himself and His mission:**

1. What is Christ’s supreme desire? John 17:1–5
2. How did Jesus define eternal life? How can we experience it now? John 17:3
3. What was Christ’s work? John 17:1–8

**Praying for His disciples:**

1. What did Jesus pray for His disciples? John 17:9–19
2. It’s not easy to be in the world but not of the world. How can we avoid becoming like the world? John 17:11, 14, 16, 18
3. What does it mean to be sanctified by the truth? How can we experience this more? John 17:17

`Personal reflection: How have you experienced the power of intercessory prayer, either by someone else praying for you or when you’ve prayed for someone else?`

**Praying for all believers:**

1. What was Jesus’ desire for future generations of believers? John 17:20–23
2. How does Jesus want us to experience His glory and His love? John 17:24–26
3. How does Jesus’ prayer reflect His continued intercession for us in heaven? Rom. 8:34; Heb. 7:25

`Personal reflection: What issues divide people in the world today? How can believers from so many different cultures, backgrounds, and perspectives overcome these challenges and be united?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Christ’s deepest desire was that the Father be glorified—and that we would truly know Him, because that’s what eternal life is all about.
- Rather than taking them out of this world, Jesus prayed that His disciples would be transformed by the Word and anchored in the love of the Godhead.
- Jesus didn’t just pray for the Twelve; He prayed for us, that we would reflect His character, love, and unity so the world would see Him through us.