---
title:  “ ‘Come to Me . . .’ ”
date:  24/07/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matt. 11:20–30, Matt. 5:5, Deut. 18:15, Gal. 5:1, Exod. 18:13–22, Gal. 6:2.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “ ‘Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest’ ” (Matt. 11:28, NKJV).

Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.’ ”

What a wonderful promise we have been given here by Jesus. After all, who among us at times hasn’t felt heavy-laden, if not so much with work itself (though that can often be the case) but with the labor and heavy-ladenness that life itself brings? And Jesus here is telling us that, yes, He knows what we are going through, and, yes, He can help us—that is, if we let Him.

And then, after telling us to bear His yoke, Jesus says, “ ‘For My yoke is easy and My burden is light’ ” (Matt. 11:30, NKJV). In other words, Get rid of the yokes and burdens that you are carrying (give them to Me) and take Mine upon yourself instead, for Mine are easier to bear.

How can we experience the rest that Jesus is talking about? After all, we live in a world where, after sin, the Lord said to Adam, “ ‘In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread’ ” (Gen. 3:19, NKJV). Thus, we have known what it is like to labor and to be carrying burdens that can seem way too hard to bear, at least by ourselves.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, July 31._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It is not work but overwork, without periods of rest, that breaks people down, endangering the life-forces. Those who overwork soon reach the place where they work in a hopeless way.

The work done to the Lord is done in cheerfulness and with courage. God wants us to bring spirit and life and hopefulness into our work. Brain workers should give due attention to every part of the human machinery, equalizing the taxation. Physical and mental effort, wisely combined, will keep the whole man in a condition that makes him acceptable to God.

Bring into the day’s work hopefulness, courage, and amiability. Do not overwork. Better far leave undone some of the things planned for the day’s work than to undo oneself and become overtaxed, losing the courage necessary for the performance of the tasks of the next day. Do not today violate the laws of nature, lest you lose your strength for the day to follow.—_Mind, Character, and Personality_, vol. 2, pp. 375, 376.

Christ longs to have care-worn, weary, oppressed human beings come to Him. He longs to give them the light and joy and peace that are to be found nowhere else. The veriest sinners are the objects of His deep, earnest pity and love. He sends His Holy Spirit to yearn over them with tenderness, seeking to draw them to Himself.—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 225.

“Come unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy-laden, and I will give you rest.”

These words of comfort were spoken to the multitude that followed Jesus. The Saviour had said that only through Himself could men receive a knowledge of God. He had spoken of His disciples as the ones to whom a knowledge of heavenly things had been given. But He left none to feel themselves shut out from His care and love. All who labor and are heavy-laden may come unto Him.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 328.

As through Jesus we enter into rest, heaven begins here. We respond to His invitation, Come, learn of Me, and in thus coming we begin the life eternal. Heaven is a ceaseless approaching to God through Christ. The longer we are in the heaven of bliss, the more and still more of glory will be opened to us; and the more we know of God, the more intense will be our happiness. As we walk with Jesus in this life, we may be filled with His love, satisfied with His presence. All that human nature can bear, we may receive here. But what is this compared with the hereafter? There “are they before the throne of God, and serve Him day and night in His temple: and He that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat. For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes.” Revelation 7:15-17.—_The Desire of Ages_, pp. 331, 332.