---
title:  “ ‘I Will Give You Rest’ ”
date:  25/07/2021
---

`Read Matthew 11:20–28, where Jesus says: “ ‘Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest’ ”  (NKJV). What is the context of this statement? How does Jesus give us this rest?`

As all of us, Jesus never spoke without a context. In order to understand Him, we need to grasp the specific context surrounding a particu­lar statement, especially if we want to avoid misinterpreting Jesus.

Matthew 11 marks a turning point in Matthew’s Gospel. The statements denouncing important Galilean cities are the harshest heard so far in the Gospel. Jesus does not curry favors; He puts the finger where it hurts; He associates with the “wrong” people (Matt. 9:9–13); His claim to be able to forgive sins is scandalous in the eyes of the religious leaders (Matt. 9:1–8).

Indeed, Jesus speaks some powerfully condemning words to the people, even comparing them, unfavorably, to Sodom, viewed then (as today) as a place of implacable wickedness. “ ‘But I say to you that it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you’ ” (Matt. 11:24, NKJV).

Tensions are rising—and yet, in the midst of all of this, Jesus changes gear and offers true rest. He can do so because “ ‘all things have been delivered to Me by My Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father’ ” (Matt. 11:27, NKJV). Jesus’ ability to give rest is based on His divinity and His oneness with the Father.

Before we can come to unload our burdens, we need to understand that we cannot carry them alone. In fact, most of us will not come unless we have recognized our true condition. Jesus’ invitation is need based.

His statement in Matthew 11:28 begins with an imperative in the Greek original. “ ‘Come’ ” is not optional; “come” represents the precondition of finding rest. “Come” means that we need to surrender control. In a time when we can conveniently control many things in our lives via our smartphones, coming to Jesus is not a natural direction. In fact, for most people, surrender is the toughest part of the Christian life.

We love to talk, and rightly so, about all that God does for us in Christ and how we cannot save ourselves and the like. All that is true. But in the end, we still have to make the conscious choice to “come” to Jesus, which means surrender to Him. Here is where the reality of free will becomes front and center in the Christian life.

`What burdens are you carrying? How can you learn to give them to Jesus and experience the rest He offers at so great a cost to Himself?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

I feel urged by the Spirit of the Lord to tell you that now is your day of privilege, of trust, of blessing. Will you improve it? Are you working for the glory of God, or for selfish interests? Are you keeping before your mind’s eye brilliant prospects of worldly success, whereby you may obtain self-gratification and financial gain? If so, you will be most bitterly disappointed. But if you seek to live a pure and holy life, to learn daily in the school of Christ the lessons that He has invited you to learn, to be meek and lowly in heart, then you have a peace which no worldly circumstances can change.

A life in Christ is a life of restfulness. Uneasiness, dissatisfaction, and restlessness reveal the absence of the Saviour. If Jesus is brought into the life, that life will be filled with good and noble works for the Master. You will forget to be self-serving, and will live closer and still closer to the dear Saviour; your character will become Christlike, and all around you will take knowledge that you have been with Jesus and learned of Him.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 5, p. 487.

Christ is the wellspring of life. That which many need is to have a clearer knowledge of Him; they need to be patiently and kindly, yet earnestly, taught how the whole being may be thrown open to the healing agencies of heaven. When the sunlight of God’s love illuminates the darkened chambers of the soul, restless weariness and dissatisfaction will cease, and satisfying joys will give vigor to the mind and health and energy to the body. …

We are not to let the future, with its hard problems, its unsatisfying prospects, make our hearts faint, our knees tremble, our hands hang down. “Let him take hold of My strength,” says the Mighty One, “that he may make peace with Me; and he shall make peace with Me.” Isaiah 27:5. Those who surrender their lives to His guidance and to His service will never be placed in a position for which He has not made provision. Whatever our situation, if we are doers of His word, we have a Guide to direct our way; whatever our perplexity, we have a sure Counselor; whatever our sorrow, bereavement, or loneliness, we have a sympathizing Friend.—_The Ministry of Healing_, pp. 247, 248.

Have you, have I, fully comprehended the gracious call, “Come unto me”? He says, “Abide in me,” not Abide _with_ Me. “Do understand My call. Come to Me to stay with Me.” He will freely bestow all blessings connected with Himself upon all who come to Him for life. … You are privileged with His abiding presence in the place of a short-lived privilege that is not lasting as you engage in the duties of life. Will anxiety, perplexity, and cares drive you away from Christ? Are we less dependent upon God when in the workshop, in the field, in the market-place? … The Lord Jesus will abide with you and you with Him in every place.—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 55.