---
title:  Further Thought
date:  30/07/2021
---

“When you find your work hard, when you complain of difficulties and trials, when you say that you have no strength to withstand temptation, that you cannot overcome impatience, and that the Christian life is uphill work, be sure that you are not bearing the yoke of Christ; you are bearing the yoke of another master.”—Ellen G. White, Child Guidance, p. 267.

“There is need of constant watchfulness and of earnest, loving devotion, but these will come naturally when the soul is kept by the power of God through faith. We can do nothing, absolutely nothing, to commend ourselves to divine favor. We must not trust at all to ourselves or to our good works; but when as erring, sinful beings we come to Christ, we may find rest in His love. God will accept every one that comes to Him trusting wholly in the merits of a crucified Saviour. Love springs up in the heart. There may be no ecstasy of feeling, but there is an abiding, peaceful trust. Every burden is light; for the yoke which Christ imposes is easy. Duty becomes a delight, and sacrifice a pleasure. The path that before seemed shrouded in darkness becomes bright with beams from the Sun of Righteousness. This is walking in the light as Christ is in the light.”—Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, pp. 38, 39.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Do you remember the moment in your walk with Jesus when you finally surrendered? Share this moment in your class and focus particularly on the reason you surrendered.`

`Study Jesus’ prayer in Matthew 11:25–27 and discuss in your class how we gain knowledge of grace. Why does God hide the plan of salvation (“these things”) from the wise and prudent and reveal them to babes?`

`In a practical way, how can we help those around us struggling with their burdens to come to Jesus and find rest?`

`Dwell more on this idea of being “meek and lowly in heart.” Isn’t that bad for a person’s self-esteem? Shouldn’t we feel good about ourselves, especially people who struggle with self-doubts anyway? How should the cross, and what the cross represents, help us to understand what Jesus means about being “meek and lowly”? That is, in the presence of the Cross, why are meekness and lowliness the only real appropriate attitudes to have?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We apologize that the daily quotes by Ellen White are temporarily unavailable. We are working toward providing supplemental quotations again in the very near future!