---
title: 'An Exciting Way To Be  Part Of God’s Work'
date: 29/08/2020
---

### Read for this week's lesson
Genesis 1:1, 2, 26; Exodus 18:21–25; 1 Corinthians 12:12–25; Acts 18:1–5; Acts 4:31.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Then He said to His followers, ‘There is much grain ready to gather [pick; collect]. But the workmen are few. Pray then to the Lord Who is the Owner of the grain fields that He will send workmen to gather His grain’ ” (Matthew 9:37, 38, NLV).

SOMEONE SAID, “There is strength in numbers.” What does that mean? It means that when we work together as a group, we have more success. You exercise more if you do it with a group than if you exercise alone each day. That is why many people join health clubs and gyms. They believe they will exercise more and enjoy it better if they exercise with other people. In the same way, God made us for friendship. We do better if we have a group of friends who support us. This is very true with our spiritual life too.

Small groups are part of God’s plan for making our faith grow stronger. Small groups help us learn more about the Bible. Small groups deepen our prayer life and help us share Bible truth. God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit were a small group when They made the earth. Moses was a small-group leader. Jesus started a small group of followers. Paul traveled the kingdom of Rome with his small group of friends. They shared the Good News about Jesus everywhere.

During this week’s study, we will look at what the Bible says about small groups. We will discover exciting ways to be a part of them.
