---
title:  "SMALL GROUPS: GOD’S IDEA FIRST"
date:   30/08/2020
---

`Read Genesis 1:1, 2, 26; Hebrews 1:1, 2; and Ephesians 3:8, 9. How do these verses show us that God the Father, Jesus, and the Spirit are in agreement with each other?`

God the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit worked together to make this earth. Each One had a different job to do. But They all worked together as One. The Father was in charge of how everything should look. He came up with the plan for the earth. Jesus carried out the Father’s plan with the help of the Holy Spirit. Wow! It is hard for us to even understand how They worked together to make this earth. But we can understand that God made this earth, the sky above, and outer space with everything in it (read Romans 1:18–20).

God invented small groups. We need to be careful when we talk about the mystery of God. At the same time, we can say safely that God the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit were the first “small group” in history. They worked together to make humans. And They worked together to make a plan to save humans after they sinned.

`Compare John 10:17, 18 with Romans 8:11 and 1 Corinthians 15:15. How does Jesus’ waking up from the dead show the agreement of God the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit in their plan to save humans?`

The Father, Son, and Holy Spirit worked together as a “small group” to save humans. “God’s plan to save humans was in place before time began.”—Ellen G. White, Fundamentals of Christian Education, page 186, adapted. Nothing is more important to God than saving as many people as possible (1 Timothy 2:4; 2 Peter 3:9). Small groups can have many jobs. We will look at some of those different jobs this week. But the most important work that small groups can do is win souls to Jesus. When we work together in small groups, we help ourselves and other people too.

`Think some more about the agreement between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. It is hard to understand fully. But we can believe and trust in what we do not fully understand anyway, right? Why is this rule so important for us to follow when it comes to faith?`
