---
title: 'Small Groups In The Bible'
date: 31/08/2020
---

The Bible shows us many examples of small groups. The people in these groups spend time together. They pray, encourage each other, and work together for Jesus. Small groups give us the chance to share God’s work and fully use our different spiritual gifts.

`Read Exodus 18:21–25. What good advice does Moses’ father-in-law, Jethro, give that helps Moses in a big way? Why is this plan so important?`

Every person in the camp of Israel became part of a group of ten people. A leader was put in charge of each group. The leaders of these small groups helped solve problems. The small groups offered their members friendship. These small groups helped spiritual life to grow. People in the groups talked about God’s plans for Israel. They built strong, caring friendships. People had problems that other people helped them with. It is the same for us today. Small groups give us the chance for warm, caring friendship, spiritual growth, and problem-solving.

Do you want to know something interesting? Small-group experts tell us that the best size for small groups is between six and twelve people. This is the exact size that both Moses and Jesus used when they made their small groups.

`Read Luke 6:12, 13; Matthew 10:1; and Mark 3:13–15. Jesus has two reasons for choosing His followers to be part of His small group. What are these reasons?`

Jesus used small groups to train His followers to do God’s work on earth. Their friendship with Jesus helped their spiritual lives to grow. In their small-group meetings, Jesus’ followers learned how to work and serve in better ways. Day by day, they saw Jesus take care of the needs of the people around Him. This taught them how to use their own gifts to serve God. Jesus used small groups to teach His followers how to share the truth with people.

`Think about a time when you were part of a small group that cared about each other. What did you learn from that experience that can help you understand why small groups should be an important part of our faith?`
