---
title: 'Coming Together To Serve God'
date: 01/09/2020
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:12–25. How is the human body an excellent word picture for the way that people work together in small groups?`

Paul shows us why spiritual gifts are important in the life of the church. He also gives us a list of the most important gifts.

When we study the body, we see that the organs of the body are put into different groups. Spiritual gifts are much the same as the different parts of the body. These spiritual gifts work best when they are put into groups. Most parts of the body cannot work alone. Each job that the body does is part of a larger job. All the different parts of the body work together to keep us alive and healthy.

The body’s different parts teach us something about what we need so that we can best use our spiritual gifts. It is easy to lose hope when we work alone. But when we are part of a small group, we work much better. We are part of a group of people who are interested in the same things we are interested in. These people want the same things we want. That helps us work better and do more.

Small groups give us the best place to use our spiritual gifts. Small groups can become the center of a church’s efforts to share the Good News with other people.

Ellen G. White talks about the worth of small groups: “God does not make mistakes. He has shown me that it is important for Christians to work in small groups. If there is a large number of people in a church, the members should meet in small groups. They should work for church members and for people who do not believe. Let us say there is a place where only two or three people know Bible truth. Then they should join together in a small group of workers. They should join together and not break apart. They should come together in love and agreement. They can encourage each other to move forward in God’s work. Then they will get courage and strength from each other.”—Testimonies for the Church, volume 7, pages 21, 22, adapted.

God accepts the work done by small groups. These groups help each church member’s spiritual life to grow stronger. Small groups also help members to build strong friendships. In small groups, members can use their God-given gifts to serve Him.
