---
title:  NEW TESTAMENT SMALL GROUPS
date:   02/09/2020
---

The New Testament church grew big fast. In a few short years, it grew from a small group of believers to tens of thousands of worshipers. There are many reasons for this fast growth. (1) Jesus’ work on earth helped get people ready to accept the preaching of His followers. (2) After Jesus went back to heaven, God poured His Spirit on Jesus’ followers. (3) The New Testament church grew so fast because it was divided into small groups.

`Read Acts 18:1–5 and Acts 20:1–4. Why do you think that Luke tells us in these verses the names of some of the people that Paul worked with closely?`

It is interesting to see that Luke tells us the names of some of the people that Paul works with. Each person is important to Paul. He knows them by name. Paul and his friends help each other in their work for God. Luke does not tell us the names of every person that Paul worked with. But the names that Luke does tell us show that it was important to Paul to work closely with his friends, even in small groups.

Each of the people in Acts 18:1–5 and Acts 20:1–4 has different gifts. They all come from different countries with their own culture or ways of life. So, they do not always look at things in the same way. At the same time, each person has some special work to do for God. Each one has a personal experience with Jesus. Their different gifts and experiences help the New Testament church to grow.

`Compare Acts 16:11–15, 40 and Acts 12:11, 12. As we see in these verses, what invitation does Lydia give to Paul right after she becomes a Christian? Where do both Paul and Peter go after God makes them free from prison?`

The New Testament believers met in homes. Christian homes became important places for sharing God’s truth. They also became the centers for the work that small groups did for God.

`Have you thought about starting a small group in your home? Maybe you already belong to one. If yes, how have small groups been a blessing to your spiritual life?`
