---
title: 'The Way Small Groups Work'
date: 03/09/2020
---

God uses small groups to grow His church. Small groups are safe places for people to share their problems and the things they are interested in or worried about. Small groups give people the chance for spiritual growth. Friendships and caring also are part of the small-group experience. Many non-Christians feel more comfortable going to a small-group meeting in a home than going to a church for the first time.

`Read Acts 4:31; Acts 12:12; and Acts 20:17–19, 27–32. Make a list of all the different things that these New Testament groups did. What did they do?`

The New Testament Christians met together to pray for people. They also prayed about things they were worried about. They shared warm friendships, studied the Bible, learned how to serve God better, protected each other against false teachers, and witnessed together.

Small groups make life better. People in small groups join their gifts to serve God together. They let the Holy Spirit use them to share the Good News with people. Small groups are powerful “tools” in God’s hands.

`Read Matthew 9:37, 38. As we see in these verses, what does Jesus say about the big “crop” of people that needs to be brought into God’s kingdom? How does Jesus say that the problem can be solved?`

Jesus’ followers saw very little hope for the Good News to be shared with people. But Jesus saw great chances for success. Jesus told His followers the wonderful news that “ ‘there is such a big harvest [crop] of people to bring in’ ” (Matthew 9:37, ERV). Then Jesus told His followers that there was a problem. “ ‘But there are only a few workers to help harvest [collect] them’ ” (Matthew 9:37, ERV). Jesus’ answer to the problem was prayer. “ ‘Pray then to the Lord Who is the Owner of the grain fields that He will send workmen to gather His grain’ ” (Matthew 9:38, NLV). Small groups are an answer to Jesus’ prayer. Small groups help the number of workers to grow.

The most important work that small groups have is serving God and telling people about Jesus. Small groups must lead people to Jesus and grow their faith. Then they can become witnesses for Jesus and Bible truth.
