---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   04/09/2020
---

Many years ago, a small church in Europe decided that it had to do something big and important for God. The church was not growing. No one had been baptized in the church in a long time. The church did not have a bright future. The pastor and the church leaders prayed. They thought about a plan to help the church.

They started to study the New Testament. As they studied, they decided to start a small group to serve God more fully. Nine church members got excited about the plan. They decided to pray together and study how to use their small group to best serve God. Soon they decided to make each of their homes a center for sharing Bible truth with other people. The members in the group learned to use their gifts in different ways. They started new groups for prayer and helping the poor and needy. They built friendships with people in their community. They showed more love to members of their own families, friends, and Adventists who no longer went to church. The nine small-group leaders started Bible studies in their homes. 40 guests came. The small-group members got excited at what the Holy Spirit did. Soon 17 of the 40 guests were baptized. What does this story show us? Small groups can make big changes happen! Small groups are one of God’s ways of including many different church members in the work of the church.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. In class, talk some more about Thursday’s study and the important things that the small groups do. What other things can a small group be a part of? What are ways that a small group can help people with special gifts use those gifts as they have never used them before?`

`2. Why is it necessary that small groups always remember that their most important work is to share the Good News with people who do not know it? Also, why is it important for small groups to always stay connected with their local church body?`

`3. Have you ever been part of a small group that died out? Why do you think this happened?`

`4. Think about the story you read in today’s study about the small church in Europe. What made the small group a success? What part did their working in homes have in their success? Why are homes safer or better places to meet in than churches when you first start your work for God in your neighborhood or community?`
