---
title:  Further Thought
date:  06/09/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “On the Mount of Olives,” pp. 627–636, in _The Desire of Ages_.

Many things are happening in the world that are very disturbing. People truly are frightened about what is unfolding. How can we, as Seventh-day Adventists, with a kind of “inside track” on events, use these things to point people to the hope we have in Jesus and the promise of His coming?

“Because we know not the exact time of His coming, we are commanded to watch. ‘Blessed are those servants, whom the Lord when He cometh shall find watching.’ Luke 12:37. Those who watch for the Lord’s coming are not waiting in idle expectancy. The expectation of Christ’s coming is to make men fear the Lord, and fear His judgments upon transgression. It is to awaken them to the great sin of rejecting His offers of mercy. Those who are watching for the Lord are purifying their souls by obedience to the truth. With vigilant watching they combine earnest working. Because they know that the Lord is at the door, their zeal is quickened to co-operate with the divine intelligences in working for the salvation of souls. These are the faithful and wise servants who give to the Lord’s household ‘their portion of meat in due season.’ Luke 12:42. They are declaring the truth that is now specially applicable. As Enoch, Noah, Abraham, and Moses each declared the truth for his time, so will Christ’s servants now give the special warning for their generation.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, p. 634.

**Discussion Questions**:

`It’s one thing to give to the Lord’s work. It’s another to give sacrificially. What’s the difference, and why is that difference important?`

`Why did God not prevent the persecution of His people through the centuries and in today’s world? How does the great controversy motif help us understand, somewhat, why persecution exists?`

`What signs of Christ’s coming especially stand out to you in the present world?`

`Think about the state of the dead and the fact that the dead sleep until Christ returns. People close their eyes in death, and what is the very next thing they know? How does this idea help us see how, for each person individually, the second coming of Christ is always very near?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Our High Calling_, “Sweetness of Self Denial,” p. 199;\
_The Great Controversy_, “The Destruction of Jerusalem,” pp. 17–38.