---
title:  Jesus Was There From The Beginning
date:   13/10/2024
---

John starts his book about the story of Jesus’ life with this amazing thought: “In the beginning, the Word was already there. The Word was with God, and the Word was God” (John 1:1, NIrV). This beautiful verse contains a very deep and powerful idea about Jesus. As humans, we can hardly understand what this wonderful idea means, but we must try.

The first thing that John does in this verse is give us a hint about the time when God made the skies and the earth. John starts his book with the same words that Genesis begins with: “In the beginning” (read Genesis 1:1; John 1:1). We learn that the Word, Jesus, was already alive before God made anything. So, John tells us that Jesus has always been there with God the Father from the beginning.

Next, John tells us that “the Word was with God.” In John 1:18, John says, “No one has ever seen God. But his only Son is very near to his Father’s heart” (WE). This verse shows us that Jesus and the Father are very close.

Then John says, “The Word was God” (John 1:1, WE). How can Jesus, who is the Word, be with God and, at the same time, be God? We can learn the answer to our question when we understand something important about the Greek language. The Greek language doesn’t have a word for “a” or “an.” But the Greek language does have a word that means “the.” When John writes “the” before a word, he shows us that he is talking about a certain person or thing and not just any person or thing. In John 1:1, John writes the word “the” in the Greek language before “Word.” So, the word “the” tells us to pay careful attention to the special person John talks about.

In the verse “the Word was with God,” John writes the word “the” before the word “God” in the Greek language. John wants us to know he is talking about a certain Person, God the Father. But when John writes “and the Word was God” in the Greek language, John doesn’t write the word “the” before the word “God.” That’s because John is now talking about Jesus. Jesus is not God the Father. At the same time, Jesus is God’s Son, the Second Person of the Godhead. The Godhead includes all three members of the Three-in-One God: God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit.