---
title:  The Word, Jesus, Became A Man
date:   14/10/2024
---

`Read John 1:1–3, 14. What do these verses tell us that Jesus did? Why is this Bible truth so important?`

John doesn’t start his book about the life of Jesus with the name of Jesus. John also doesn’t start with the topic about Jesus’ work as the Savior. John starts his book with the word “logos,” which means “the Word.” In John’s day, Greek thinkers used the word “logos” to talk about the science of thinking and all of its important rules.

The Greek thinker Plato taught that life happened in two places. One place is heaven, where everything is perfect and nothing changes. The second place is here on earth, where everything always changes and nothing is perfect. Some thinkers in Bible times said that the “logos” was a place halfway between the perfect things in heaven and the real things here on earth.

John uses the word “logos” in a completely different way than Plato. John says that the truth, or the “logos,” is not some spiritual idea that is difficult to understand. Also, the “logos” is not some place halfway between heaven and earth. For John, the “logos” is a real person: Jesus Christ. Jesus became a person and lived among us (John 1:14).

John also believed the “logos” is the Word of God, or the Bible. More important, God communicates with us. He shows Himself to people in the most amazing way: Jesus became a man and lived with us (John 1:14). In John’s book about the life of Jesus, the “logos” shows us the everlasting God, who enters time and space. This same God speaks, acts, and com­municates with humans in a personal way. The word “logos” shows us that the everlasting God became a human, one of us.

In John 1:14, John says that the “logos” or “the Word became a man and lived among us” (John 1:14, ERV). The Greek word written as “lived” means “to set up a tent.” John used this Greek word to help us remember Exodus 25:8. In this verse, God told the Israelites to make a place of worship, which was the same as a tent. Then God could come live with His people. In the same way, Jesus, who was God, lived in a human body. He hid His glory in human flesh so that people could come meet with Him when He was on this earth.

`The God who made us became one of us and lived with us. Wow! What does this tell us about God’s love for us?`