---
title:  Obeying Or Not Obeying The Bible
date:   15/10/2024
---

`Read John 1:9–13. In these verses, what does John say about how people think and feel about Jesus?`

John 1:1–18 introduces John’s story about Jesus’ life. John 1:1–18 talks about Jesus. We read these verses to learn how people at the time thought and felt about Jesus. John also names Jesus “the true Light” (John 1:9, ICB). John used “light” because Jesus’ words shine into the hearts and minds of every person on the earth. Jesus is the same as a light that helps us understand the Bible. As C. S. Lewis wrote, “I believe in Christianity in the same way that I believe the sun rises: because I see the sun rise, its light helps me to see everything else.”—“Is Theology Poetry?” (n. p.: Samizdat University Press, 2014), page 15, originally presented 1944, adapted.

Also, look at what John 1:9 is really saying. Light comes to everyone. But not everyone welcomes the light. As we will see in tomorrow’s study, one of the most important ideas in John’s book is how people accept or reject Jesus. That idea starts right here in John chapter 1. The sad truth is that the Savior came to His own people, the Jews. But many didn’t accept Him as the Savior.

In Romans 9–11, Paul talks about the same thing: many Jews rejected Jesus. But Paul doesn’t end with sad news. Paul says that many Jews, along with non-Jews, will accept Jesus as their Savior. Paul warns the non-Jews not to brag about accepting Jesus, as if they are better than the Jews. Paul says, “It is not natural for a wild branch to be part of a good tree. But you non-Jews are like [the same as] a branch cut from a wild olive tree. And you were joined to a good olive tree. But those Jews are like a branch that grew from the good tree. So surely [for sure] they can be joined to their own tree again” (Romans 11:24, ICB).

In much the same way, John says that all the people who accept Jesus as their Savior will become the children of God. We become God’s children when we believe in Him. (Read John 1:12, 13.)

This idea connects John’s introduction about Jesus with the end of his book. In John 20:31, we learn why John wrote his book: “so you will believe that Jesus is the Savior, the Son of God, and that when you believe, you will have everlasting life in His name.”