---
title:  'Important Ideas In The Book Of John: Part 1'
date:   16/10/2024
---

`Read John 3:16–21; John 9:35–41; and John 12:36–46. How do these verses show us the same idea of accepting/rejecting Jesus that we saw in the introduction to John’s book about Jesus’ life?`

In John’s book, there are two groups of people: (1) people who believe in Jesus and accept Him as the Savior, and (2) people who choose not to believe in Him.

The followers of Jesus belong to the first group. So does Nicodemus (who is slow to believe), the woman at the well, and the man who is born blind. In the second group are the Pharisees, a group of religious leaders, and the high priests, who are the top religious leaders for the Jews. This group also includes one of Jesus’ followers, Judas, and the people who saw Jesus do the miracle that fed more than 5,000 people.

John doesn’t use the word “faith” or “belief” (from the Greek word “pistis”) anywhere in his book on Jesus’ life. But John uses the word “believe” (from the Greek word “pisteuo”) 98 times! John uses this word in the New Testament 241 times. So, we can see that the word “believe” is a very important idea in John’s book. Why does John use the action word “believe” and not the word for “faith” or “belief”? Maybe John wants us to understand that being a Christian is something we do. We show we are Christians in how we live and not just in what we believe. As we know, the devil believes in Jesus, too (read James 2:19).

In the Book of John, the two groups of people are dif­ferent in the way they think about Jesus. People who believe in Jesus come to Him and do not run away from Him. They accept His words, even when He scolds or warns them. Jesus is the same as the Light that shines on them. These people believe and become children of God.

People who don’t accept Jesus come to Him to fight with Him. They love the dark, or lies, and not the light, or Bible truth. This group thinks that Jesus’ sayings are hard to accept. They see Jesus breaking old rules and not doing what they expect. They judge Jesus. They don’t allow His teachings to judge them. We see this behavior again and again in the Jewish spiritual leaders. The spiritual leaders did not want to accept Jesus as the Savior.