---
title:  'Important Ideas In The Book Of John: Part 2'
date:   17/10/2024
---

`Read John 17:1–5. What did Jesus mean when He said, “ ‘Father, the time has come. Give glory [honor] to your Son so that the Son can give glory to you’ ” (John 17:1, ERV)?`

In the beginning of the Book of John, John introduces Jesus as God’s Son who made everything. “He made all things. Nothing was made without Him making it” (John 1:3, NLV). John also talks about Jesus’ glory: “The Word became a human being [person]. He made his home with us. We have seen his glory. It [His glory] is the glory of the One and Only, who came from the Father. And the Word [Jesus] was full of grace [mercy and forgiveness] and truth” (John 1:14, NIrV). In the Greek language, the word “glory” means “bright,” “fame,” and “honor.” John uses the word “glory” to talk about how people gave honor to Jesus and how Jesus got honor from God.

In the Book of John, John connects the idea of giving Jesus glory or honor with the topic of His “time.” His time means the time of His death (compare with John 2:4; John 7:30; John 8:20; John 12:23–27; John 13:1; John 16:32; and John 17:1). So, the Cross is Jesus’ time of glory or honor.

We may think this idea is strange. How can the Cross be a time of Jesus’ honor or glory? The cross was the most awful way to die in Roman times. God on a cross shows us how heaven’s story becomes connected with our story.

As a man, Jesus died a terrible death. He suffered. He was nailed to a cross as a criminal. Before He died, Jesus cried out, “ ‘My God, My God, why have you left Me alone?’ ” (Matthew 27:46, NLV). We see this human, dark side of the Cross in the Books of Matthew and Mark (Matthew 27:46; Mark 15:34).

But the Cross also has another side: a side of glory. We see this glory in the books of Luke and John (Luke 23:32–47; John 19:25–30). We see the Cross as the place where God saves sinners and gives them mercy. Also, Jesus, the Son of God, gives Himself to the Father.

How strange, right? God’s best glory is shown in His worst shame.

`Think about what it means that God needed to die on the cross to save us from sin. What does this idea tell us about how bad sin really is?`