---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   18/10/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘God With Us,’ ” in The Desire of Ages, pages 19–26.

“Jesus said, ‘And I am going to be lifted up from the earth. When I am, I will bring all people to myself.’ John 12:32 [NIrV]. Jesus must be shown to the sinner as the Savior who dies for the sins of everyone. When we look at Jesus, the Lamb of God, on the cross, we start to understand God’s plan to save us. God’s love leads us to confess our sins and to stop sinning. When Jesus died for sinners, He showed a love that we can’t begin to understand. As the sinner looks at this love, it touches his heart. His mind fills with Bible truth. He feels sad about his sins. . . . Any time people start to improve their lives, Jesus makes that happen. We don’t understand how this happens. But we wish to improve our lives, and we make changes for the better. Jesus invites us to look at His cross. When we sinners look at the Cross, we look at the Person we killed with our sins. That is the time when we feel the guilt from breaking God’s law.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pages 26, 27, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In John 1, why would John talk about Jesus as the Person who made everything? Why is this topic important to everything we believe as a church? Why is it so important for us to have a correct understanding about how life started? What does the Bible teach us about this topic?`

`Jesus was fully God and fully human. Why is the Bible truth that Jesus is fully God an important part of our beliefs as Seventh-day Adventists? What would happen to our beliefs if we thought that Jesus was only human and was not God? Also, what happens to the cross if the everlasting God didn’t die on it? What if only a man died on it? What do we lose as Christians if Jesus is not the everlasting God?`