---
title:  The Beginning of the End
date:  15/06/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 13, 14**

**The Beginning of the End**

The American Civil War was a fierce battle of ideologies. The North’s opposition to slavery clashed with the South’s determination to preserve its plantation-dependent economy, which ignited a brutal conflict in 1861 that raged for four years. At the heart of the war were two fundamentally opposed visions of what America should be. The North, called the Union, envisioned a free, industrial society while the South, known as the Confederacy, clung tightly to a lifestyle upheld by slavery. Each side was fortified by their deep-seated beliefs, making the war not only a physical confrontation but also a battle for America’s very foundation. The pivotal turning point in this bloody conflict was the Battle of Gettysburg in 1863. Though costly, the Union’s victory here was a significant blow to the Confederacy and signaled the start of their steady decline. Gettysburg was the moment the tide turned, marking the beginning of the end for the South and leading to their eventual surrender to the North in 1865.

As time on this earth draws to a close, biblical prophecy depicts an ever-increasing polarization between the two forces in the great controversy. The two fundamentally opposed belief systems are gearing up to clash in the final showdown between good and evil. One side adheres to the principle of selflessness—God’s way of ensuring freedom and love—while the other observes an ideology centered on self and resulting in bondage to sin. Governments, economies, nations, religions—all people and all systems will soon have to choose a side. At the very end, Satan will employ every tactic possible to deceive humanity one last time, directing them to persecute God’s faithful few. This is the pivotal turning point, the beginning of the end. During that time, when it seems that Satan is about to take control of the entire planet, God will turn the tide. A last warning and invitation will go out to people across the earth as Babylon falls and the faithful share the gospel with renewed power. It will be a victorious but difficult time for God’s people.

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 13, 14 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Revelation 14:6–12. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._