---
title:  The Final Warning
date:  17/06/2024
---

#### inTerpret

The RMS Titanic, a luxurious cruise ship hailed as “unsinkable,” embarked on its maiden voyage in early 1912. As we modern readers know, however, it met its doom in the icy North Atlantic. Iceberg warnings from other ships, including a crucial one from the nearby SS Californian, flooded the message room. However, the Titanic’s operators, inundated with distracting passenger messages, brushed off the urgent warnings. The dire message never reached the captain, and just an hour later, the Titanic struck the infamous iceberg. Chaos ensued, emergency procedures having been forgotten. Half-empty lifeboats launched into the freezing night. Over 1,500 people were lost to the icy depths that night.

Like the passengers on the Titanic, people in this world feel safe and secure while the planet hurtles straight for disaster. In the final moments of earth’s history, and under enormous societal pressure, God’s people are obligated to proclaim the final warnings to a world destined for doom. Revelation 14’s three angels’ messages are God’s final warning to the world. Revelation 18:1 promises an outpouring of the Holy Spirit to accompany this warning in an unprecedented way. The church will present the everlasting gospel to the world, uplifting the crucified Savior and elevating God as the Creator worthy of our worship. Like the final burst of rain before the harvest, the Holy Spirit will be poured out on the church, granting her prophetic authority to share the biblical evidence that there is no more time to lose. The investigative judgment is almost over; salvation’s door is soon to be shut.

As Sunday keeping becomes the accepted norm, the Sabbath will become a peculiar sign of both God’s faithfulness to us and of ours to Him. This includes its deeper significance as the seal of God’s covenant in a believer’s life. Babylon, a prophesied system of religious confusion, will become more and more corrupt, but its sins and lies will be exposed. In a powerful outpouring of the Holy Spirit that surpasses even Pentecost, God’s people will call all true believers out of Babylon and into the lifeboat, which is the remnant group who keep God’s commandments.

During this time, true believers will illuminate the earth with God’s glory. Their conduct, faithfulness, message, and Spirit-filled lives will testify to the entire planet that God is love. Meanwhile, the world will be drowning in a sea of satanic distractions, falsehoods, and trickery. “Spirits of demons, performing signs, which go out to the kings of the earth” (Rev. 16:14) will create false revivals, appear as deceased loved ones, and use any other possible deception to unite the religious and political world against God’s remnant. Satan will lead the charge by transforming “into an angel of light” (2 Cor. 11:14) and even pretending to be Jesus (Matt. 24:26). The lost will brush off the divine warnings until nothing more can be done. “He who is unjust, let him be unjust still;... he who is righteous, let him be righteous still” (Rev. 22:11). Salvation’s door will close.

Prophecy indicates that all these things are soon to come upon us. What matters today is knowing Christ, loving Christ, and sharing Christ with others. Nothing should take priority over a genuine walk with Him.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How well do you understand the three angels’ messages and how to share them through your words and actions?`