---
title:  Faithful to the End
date:  19/06/2024
---

#### inVite

In 1915, the Endurance, an Antarctic exploration ship, became stuck in the merciless Antarctic ice, which eventually crushed it and forced the crew into lifeboats. Stranded on the freezing water, the twenty-seven men looked to Ernest Shackleton, their expedition leader, for direction in the crisis. He rallied his crew and implemented the best plan he could think of: Leaving the remains of the Endurance behind, they set out toward Elephant Island, the nearest dry land. This desolate rock supplied some basic provisions but offered no rescue, however, as it was and still is essentially uninhabitable. Shackleton and five others then ventured approximately eight hundred miles across infamously stormy waters to South Georgia Island, where their expedition had originally begun and where an inhabited whaling station stood. Battling hurricane-force winds and monstrous waves, truly against all odds, they miraculously arrived more or less unharmed. Exhausted but undeterred, Shackleton traversed icy mountains to reach the station, and four months later, rescued his remaining crew from Elephant Island. No lives were lost.

Throughout history, Jesus’ followers have had to deal with difficult circumstances, persecution, and seemingly insurmountable challenges. God’s end-time remnant people are the final targets of Satan’s hatred. How are we to withstand such an intense onslaught from the enemy?

Revelation highlights God’s people “who come out of the great tribulation” (Rev. 7:14, emphasis added). This description alone provides hope for all who are anxious about the last days. Jesus’ faithful will make it out! Revelation promises that a group of believers called the 144,000 will stand their ground through the last test. Though there’s some debate over whether this number is symbolic or literal, the fact remains that it represents a group of people who stay faithful to God until the end. According to Revelation, this group has three defining characteristics: they “washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb” (Rev. 7:14), “were not defiled with women” (Rev. 14:4), and “follow the Lamb wherever He goes” (Rev. 14:4).

The people who will be found faithful at His second coming are those who have an ongoing relationship with Christ in the here and now. By their faith in Jesus’ sacrifice, they receive pardon for their sins and the power to overcome. They remain steadfast in clinging to the biblical truth and undefiled by secular ideas, popular philosophies, and deceptive teachings, which are sometimes very appealing. Lastly, but most importantly, they follow and look to Jesus, their Leader, every day and every hour. Through the frozen wilderness of this sinful world, across the stormy waters of trials, through the hurricanes of persecution and seasons of desolation, their eyes remain fixed on Christ. Wherever He goes, they go. Whatever He promises, they claim. Jesus is their Captain, Leader, and Savior. Their characters reflect His, and their lives of faithfulness will be rewarded with the seal of God. He will return soon to rescue His people. No one on His side will be lost. It’s up to us to choose whether we’ll be delivered or not.

Journal:

`Meditate on Revelation 13, 14 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What does following the Lamb wherever He goes look like today?`

`How do you see Jesus differently after this week’s study?`