---
title:  Honesty With God
date:   10/02/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience” (Luke 8:15).

**Introduction**

**Radical Honesty**

A favorite college professor told a story that has stayed with me f or years. I still think of it every time the subject of honesty comes up.

This professor and his wife decided early in their marriage on a policy of total honesty with each other. This resulted in a bold approach to a scenario most husbands have experienced. When his wife asked the question, “How does this outfit look?” he told the truth. If he felt his wife’s new dress wasn’t terribly flattering, he said so (he didn’t mention this caveat, but this approach’s continuation must indicate a certain level of tact).

Many years later, his wife faced a serious medical problem that required surgery. As she woke from anesthesia with her husband at her side, she faced new fears over the damage. She worried the surgery had marred her physical appearance, and asked her husband the fearful question, “Am I ugly now?” He told us with emotion that because he had always been completely honest with her, when he took his wife’s face in his hands that day and told her she was more beautiful to him than ever, she knew it was the truth. The intimate love and trust in their marriage allowed him to comfort her as no one else could.

What is honesty? A dictionary might define it as “truthfulness” or “freedom from deceit.” That’s a start, but honesty goes much deeper. Honesty is vulnerability and faithfulness. It creates a foundation of trust that allows a relationship to grow and thrive. Honesty is necessary for intimacy. Its reverse—dishonesty, lying, deceit—destroys trust and kills relationships.

Is it any wonder that honesty is codified in the Ten Commandments? Is it any wonder that God asks us to put that honesty into practice in how we manage the tangible goods He entrusts to us?

The intimacy God craves with us requires radical honesty. We approach Him in naked vulnerability, with all our failings and weaknesses laid bare, trusting His unfathomable love and grace to cover us. We rely on His will for our lives because we know He sees and cares for our deepest needs. That honesty and trust pervades every area of our lives, making faithfulness to God a fundamental part of how we live. It’s not a pick and choose kind of thing, where we can deal honestly with God in some areas of our lives but hold back in others (see Luke 16:10).

As you study this week’s lesson, think about the beautiful intimacy of a relationship built on radical honesty. Consider how that honesty impacts your stewardship and continually deepens the trust between you and God.

_Jolene Sharp, Nashville, Tennessee, USA_