---
title:  A History of Unbridled Theft
date:   11/02/2018
---

**Logos**: Gen. 22:1–12; 28:14–22; Lev. 27:30; Mal. 3:7, 8, 10; Luke 16:10; Eph. 1:3

**The Small Stuff Matters** (Luke 16:10)

The character trait of honesty has great, even eternal, importance. In Luke 16:10, Jesus told us that our honesty reveals much about the godliness of our lives: “He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much.” Conversely, a spiritual decline produces the same effect—but in the opposite direction: “and he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much.” Never could one say it any more clearly than this passage from Luke that you reap what you sow. Eventually, your honest efforts, or lack thereof, show up in your life somehow. The ways we relate to money are so tied to our spiritual conditions that the effects of our honesty tend to show up a majority of the time in our financial lives. In fact, money matters are the threads that bind us to our spouses, families, and friends in uniquely powerful ways.

**Have You Robbed Him?** (Mal. 3:7, 8, 10)

Hold on tight for this revelation: You may be an embezzler, bandit, or thief. Stay tuned. In Malachi 3:8, this charge is laid at our feet: “Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings”. The word tithe means one tenth of agricultural and monetary earnings. If you’ve ever held back your tenth, God’s portion, of an increase in either, the Bible condemns your sin (and mine). By condemning a seemingly innocent neglect to tithe, God elevates tithing to a higher moral level, on par with His most important commandments. The two verses that sandwich Malachi 3:8, verses 7 and 9, put a microscope on this passage. Verse 7 implores believers to return to God, for if we do so He’ll return to us. Still we ask, how can we return to Him? Verse 10 infuses grace and mercy into the scenario if we do one thing: “Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house.” The rest of verse 10 is God’s promise to “open . . . the windows of heaven, and pour . . . out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.”

**Tithing as an Act of Faith** (Gen. 22:1–13)

Is this promise of a blessing similar to simple cause and effect, a line of dominos falling down or a match head striking sandpaper, igniting a flame? Not without a life of faith, according to Genesis 22. The first 12 verses of this chapter tell Abraham’s story of great faith in God even as he nears the mount of sacrifice with his son Isaac, no lamb in sight. “My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering,” Abraham told Isaac, assuring him a sacrifice would appear. Abraham’s great wealth provided any number of appropriate lambs to offer up to God, yet exercising great faith, he left all of them behind as he set out on God’s mission of a strange offering, the life of his son, Isaac. By faith of his own, Isaac, a willing sacrifice, was bound and placed on the altar. Abraham raised the knife and, interrupted by the Lord’s voice, stopped. He found, nearby, a ram struggling by its horns in a thicket. It was the provided sacrifice. God promises for us, and Abraham exercised faith in the promise, putting his whole heart into God’s care, trusting in Him with, what worldlings would call, bizarre instructions. We may not need the faith of Abraham to continue, or begin, paying our tithe to the Lord, yet a good portion of such faith can be ours if we only ask for and exercise the promise.

**Through Tithing, Bonding Yourself to Him** (Gen. 28:12–22)

Abraham’s grandson Jacob received the dream now known as Jacob’s ladder as he slept one night in a place known in the Bible as Bethel. To Jacob, the Lord reiterated Abraham’s blessing of great seed to him born “as the dust of the earth.” Promising also to be with him everywhere he went and to bring him back to his father’s land, the Lord solidified a bond with Jacob. Building a pillar to the Lord at Bethel, Jacob vowed that should God bring him back to his father’s land, then he would “surely give the tenth” (Gen. 28:12–22) of all he owned back to Him. Tithing wasn’t a cure-all, and Jacob wasn’t without his trials, but he went on to be renamed Israel, becoming the father of the tribes of Israel. His promise, taken by faith, resulted in the blessing of many sons, who themselves had many sons, and so on, with his own son Joseph becoming God’s instrument for saving the world of that time from a devastating sevenyear famine.

**Yet Our Most Cherished Blessings Are Worth More** (Eph. 1:3)

Not only did God bless these faithful, honest-tithing Old Testament men with material and familial gains as they returned to Him their tithes, He, more importantly, chose to bless them in even deeper ways. The apostle Paul wrote, “Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ” (Eph. 1:3). God’s spiritual blessings are the most important we may receive because they hold the most lasting effects. These blessings point away from the things of this earth, such as possessions, to those of eternal value. All His blessings are for our good, and He promises them if we’ll only return to Him the honest tithe He calls from us.

**React**

Have you experienced God’s blessings from “the windows of heaven . . . that there shall not be room enough to receive” them? Has this surprised you? Why? Have you not experienced such blessings? Why do you believe that to be so?

_Jeremy Vetter, Moscow, Idaho, USA_