---
title:  'Tithing: Pleasure in the Duty'
date:   12/02/2018
---

**Testimony**: Gen. 14:20; Mal. 3:8, 9

“But the tithing system did not originate with the Hebrews. From the earliest times the Lord claimed a tithe as His, and this claim was recognized and honored. Abraham paid tithes to Melchizedek, the priest of the most high God. Genesis 14:20. Jacob, when at Bethel, an exile and a wanderer, promised the Lord, ‘Of all that Thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto Thee.’ Genesis 28:22. As the Israelites were about to be established as a nation, the law of tithing was reaffirmed as one of the divinely ordained statutes upon obedience to which their prosperity depended.

“God is the source of every blessing to His creatures, and . . . to Him man’s gratitude is due for the good gifts of His providence.”

“The system of tithes and offerings was intended to impress the minds of men with a great truth—that God is the source of every blessing to His creatures, and that to Him man’s gratitude is due for the good gifts of His providence. . . .

“ ‘The tithe . . . is the Lord’s.’ Here the same form of expression is employed as in the law of the Sabbath. ‘The seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God.’ Exodus 20:10. God reserved to Himself a specified portion of man’s time and of his means, and no man could, without guilt, appropriate either for his own interests.”1

“It is not God’s purpose that Christians, whose privileges far exceed those of the Jewish nation, shall give less freely than they gave. ‘Unto whomsoever much is given,’ the Saviour declared, ‘of him shall be much required.’ Luke 12:48. The liberality required of the Hebrews was largely to benefit their own nation; today the work of God extends over all the earth. In the hands of His followers, Christ has placed the treasures of the gospel, and upon them He has laid the responsibility of giving the glad tidings of salvation to the world. Surely our obligations are much greater than were those of ancient Israel.”2

**React**

`1. What would happen in your life if you treated tithing as a divinely ordained statute upon which your prosperity depended?`

`2. When you pay your tithe, is it a pleasure? Why does God require a tenth of our income no matter what daily hardships and circumstances we may face?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 525, 526.</sup>
<sup>2. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 337–339.</sup>

_Laura Vetter, Moscow, Idaho, USA_