---
title:  'Tithing: A Circle of Trust'
date:   13/02/2018
---

**Evidence**: Exod. 20:10, 11; Lev. 25:1–7, 20–22; 27:30–33

The earliest biblical record of tithe is in the story of Abraham gifting a tenth of his war spoils to Melchizedek, but God didn’t command His people to follow this example until the time of Moses. According to Mosaic law, the Israelites were required to give a tenth of all their land’s produce and animals—without substitutions or exemptions.

In Leviticus, the farming Israelites were also instructed to observe shmita, a sabbatical seventh year when fields were to lie fallow and all debts were to be forgiven. God, in His divine provision, promised a bountiful sixth year so that reserves could be gathered and stored for the year of rest. This reflected the weekly pattern He detailed in the fourth commandment. We work the majority of those days, and the sixth is one of preparation so that Sabbath is a full day of rest.

Some of us find ourselves tempted to modify how we keep Sabbath or how we pay tithe. Maybe we look over our resources and worry that we are close to being “in the red.” An unexpected expense or bill comes our way. We eye something that we feel the need to buy. Our human desire to have control may lead us to close our fist tightly instead of giving with an open, trusting palm. We think we are fooling God.

However, isn’t a command to give paradoxical? Think about it this way. As Christians, we are commissioned to be stewards: earthly employees of a heavenly boss. God’s directions regarding the cycles of shmita, Sabbath, and tithe are congruent. With each, He asks us for an honest sacrifice that doesn’t seem to make earthly sense in order to demonstrate our belief that He cares and provides for every facet of our lives. Our honesty is a measure of how much we trust our employer because He entrusts us.

The early Israelites were good stewards of the land. Letting fields rest allowed them to recharge and become healthier f or future years. In following God’s instructions, putting trust in Him, God would reward that trust with a bountiful harvest. Tithe is an exchange, but we must remember that God is always giving the majority.

**React**

`Have you ever paid tithe even though you were tempted not to? What was the result?`

_Laura Gang, Nashville, Tennessee, USA_