---
title:  'Tithing: A Way to Thank God'
date:   14/02/2018
---

**How-to**: Gen. 28:22; Lev. 27:30

We have all heard the saying that “Honesty is the best policy,” but have we ever stopped to think about this statement in regard to God? No, unfortunately, we tend to overlook the fact that being honest with God is just as important as, or maybe even more so than, being honest with each other. God is the source of everything we call our own—our jobs, lives, and families. He put our lives in motion; doesn’t He deserve our honesty in return? Being good Christian stewards requires us to be honest in everything that we do, including what we do with our money. Contrary to popular belief, our paychecks are not ours to keep: a part of them, a tenth in fact, belongs to God (Lev. 27:30). Like Jacob said after the night he dreamed about a ladder reaching to heaven, “Of all that You give me I will surely give a tenth to You” (Gen. 28:22, NKJV). By giving God tithe, we are acknowledging His presence in our lives and saying, “Thank You for providing for our needs.” With that said, where do we even start to say thank You in this way?

Praying for God’s leading in the matter of tithing. If you have never tithed before, this kind of honesty can be very hard, especially when money is involved. We work so hard for our income that to part with even a little bit seems impossible, but God is bigger than your fears, so ask Him to convict your heart to know that everything is going to work out in the end.

Remembering Abraham and his test of faith. Abraham followed God’s directions even though it meant the possibility of losing Isaac forever, because he knew that somehow God wouldn’t make him go through with it. As Abraham told Isaac, “God will provide” (Gen. 22:8, NKJV). He might have been talking about the lamb for a sacrifice, but his confident phrase applies to tithing as well. God did indeed provide that lamb, and He can most definitely replace the money you are giving back to Him.

Stepping out in faith like Abraham and conducting a test of your own. Abraham trusted God, and so can you. Faithfully give a tenth of everything you earn for a month or two. Let go of your fears and cling to the promise that God will provide. Honor God with your tithe and see what happens in return. He will amaze you in ways you never thought possible, and you will be blessed—of that I have no doubt.

**React**

`In what other ways can you say “Thank You, God” for His providence?`

_Mindi Vetter, Newman Lake, Washington, USA_