---
title:  With the End in Mind
date:   15/02/2018
---

**Opinion**: Luke 16:1–15

Luke 16 begins with one of the strangest parables in the Bible. A manager (steward) is in the process of being fired. Looking at his future (which he hopes does not include a career begging or digging ditches), he realizes that he’s about to need some friends, so on his last day at work, he calls in those who are indebted to his boss. He helps them change records to show that they owe less than the true balance. This secures him friends and a brighter future. The strange part comes in verse 8 when Jesus says that the boss admires the dishonest manager for being so shrewd. Surely Jesus isn’t suggesting that we cheat our employers in order to make friends!

This unusual passage contains real lessons for us relating to stewardship and the heart.

Like the manager, all of us have been in a situation where we realize that trouble is coming and wonder what we can do to improve the outlook. This manager was motivated and took advantage of his present situation to provide for later. Christians should plan with eternity in mind, using present resources to lead people to salvation. This means, among other things, giving financially. Hebrews 12:2 tells us that Jesus endured the pain of this world because He was looking ahead to the joy waiting for Him. We should do the same.

According to Luke 16:10, “He who is faithful in what is least is faithful also in much; and he who is unjust in what is least is unjust also in much” (NKJV). Character traits are like muscles; the more they are used, the stronger they become. Tithing allows us to practice faithfulness in little things, preparing us for greater challenges.

People’s giving habits seem to have been more public in Bible times. Today it is rare that anyone knows the extent of our giving. Privacy presents a unique temptation to ignore the responsibility of tithing or to skimp and give only what is comfortable, because no one will know. This makes tithing an even more important way for us to demonstrate honesty with God. Tithing shows God that we truly are devoting ourselves to Him.

**React**

`1. Why, do you think, did Jesus use a story about a dishonest person to point out positive traits?`

`2. Besides tithing, what are some ways we can practice being faithful in little things so that we are prepared to be faithful in more significant areas?`

_Cheryl Gabel, Wenatchee, Washington, USA_