---
title:  Honestly Now . . . God
date:   16/02/2018
---

**Exploration**: Luke 16:10; Luke 12:48

**Conclude**

A rancher was once out branding cattle with his hired cowboy. They were working in a part of the range owned by the neighbor. According to the cattleman’s rule, the steer from that part of the range should receive the neighbor’s brand. However, the cowboy proceeded to use the rancher’s brand instead. The rancher stopped him, asking why. The cowboy responded, “It’ll be all right, Boss.” Immediately the rancher said, “Drop that iron and leave. A man who will steal for me will steal from me.” Regardless of our rationalizations for dishonesty toward God, the level of financial faith we place in Him will determine the quantity and assortment of blessings He promises to lavish on us.

**Consider**

- Comparing your financial records, as well as other areas of your life, looking for a fulfillment of God’s promise to pour out blessings in return for your faithful giving.
- Asking God to show you areas of your life where you need to be more honest with Him.
- Bringing an unexpected offering of food to God and sharing it with others at class, work, or in another situation.
- Photographing or drawing as many beautiful or amazing things as you can see during the Sabbath hours. Share these pictures with someone who is sick or unable to leave their home.
- Researching stories of people who have put God to the test in tithing and discovering what the results were.
- Privately singing to God a song of praise for His abundance each time you set aside tithe or other resources for Him.
- Whether there are other areas of life that would benefit from a tithe, such as allowing your garden to rest for a year or donating a tithe of the clothes in your closet.

**Connect**

1. 1 Kings 17:8–16; Deuteronomy 26.
2. Ronald Alan Knott, Over and Over Again! 150 Adventists Share Personal Faith Stories About Stewardship.

_Lisa Poole, Elbert, Colorado, USA_