---
title:  When God Leaves You on Read
date:  18/05/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Daniel 10**

**When God Leaves You on Read**

In 2014, a fisherman in the Baltic found an intact 101-year-old message in a bottle. Using the postcard inside, researchers managed to track down the author, Richard Platz, who was a twenty-year-old son of a baker when he threw the bottle into the sea. Platz had passed away, but they located his granddaughter, Angela Erdmann, who never knew her grandfather, and presented the bottle and its contents to her. Though mostly illegible, the message inside asked the finder to return it to Platz’s home address in Berlin. It took over a century for the bottle to finally be delivered.

Today’s technology of instant messaging enables us to communicate with people around the world—or even in outer space—nearly instantly. With such technology, the expectation of immediate or at least very quick replies has become the norm. It can be especially frustrating when the sender knows the receiver has read or opened a text or email but has yet to respond.

When communicating with God, we can rest assured that our prayers are heard in heaven the moment they’re thought or verbalized. There’s no need to send a message in a bottle, hoping it will get to God sometime in the next century. However, God does not typically reply to us immediately with an audible voice or a text message. Sometimes His answer comes to us through the prayerful application of biblical principles in our thinking and decision-making. Other times, His response may come through fulfillment of a specific prayer. Sometimes the lack of an answer is the answer! God’s answers come in His own time and often in unexpected ways. Whether the wait is short or long, we can be confident that He does hear us and He will respond.

Prayer makes a profound difference, for it directly impacts the supernatural world. As we will see in this week’s primary passage, our prayers may at times spark intense spiritual conflicts that cause delays in God’s response. I hope this week’s Bible study from Daniel 10 will help you better discern the unseen struggle behind our prayers.

#### inScribe

Write out Daniel 10 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 12–14. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._