---
title:  Prayer Means War
date:  19/05/2024
---

#### inGest

Daniel was a man of prayer. No threats of persecution or death could hinder him from worshiping God and praying to Him. He knew the power of prayer and deep communion with God. In chapter 10, we learn that Daniel was praying and fasting for three weeks in the first month of the year (vv. 2­–4), which is when the Jews celebrated Passover. This event is the anniversary of when God delivered the Israelites from slavery in Egypt—generally a solemn yet happy time, but for Daniel, who was living in Babylonian captivity, the commemoration served only to remind him of Israel’s need for another deliverance home. The burden on his heart outweighed his desire to feast and celebrate. It was this sober realization that drove him to engage in serious, intentional, and intense intercessions for three weeks. He understood that prayer not only affected his own heart in spiritual ways but also had a real impact on the world, both visible and invisible.

When a heavenly messenger finally appeared to Daniel, he made a very insightful comment: “From the first day that you set your heart to understand, and to humble yourself before your God, your words were heard; and I have come because of your words” (Dan. 10:12, emphasis added). We learn two things from this statement: 1. when we pray, we are heard immediately, and 2. our words can set celestial beings in motion. This alone should awaken us to the incredible power of prayer.

Interestingly, when Daniel prayed in chapter 9, he experienced virtually no delay before the answer came, but he had to wait three weeks in chapter 10. Fortunately, verse 13 gives a reason for the angel’s belated appearance: “The prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days.” Though we aren’t given many details, we can conclude that the angels are very busy in this great controversy. Sometimes they must withstand various supernatural struggles and demonic resistance toward their activity. It’s reasonable to assume that Daniel’s prayer in chapter 10 was similar to the one in chapter 9; both were likely prayers for His people and for the fulfillment of God’s purpose through them. The supernatural battle for the Persian prince’s mind and subsequently his decisions regarding God’s people was intense. Daniel couldn’t see the battle that unfolded because of his prayers. He may not have expected it to take so long, but he didn’t stop interceding just because there was no immediate answer.

As we’ve noted, there are rules of engagement that govern the great controversy. This story suggests that intercessory prayers give God the right to deploy more supernatural forces to influence the hearts of those being prayed for. It shows us the importance of continued intercessory prayers for people and situations, and it encourages us not to give up when there seem to be no answers to our requests. There may be a larger battle going on behind the scenes. With this in mind, why not pray right now for the lost people you know?

Journal:

`How can we better learn patience and perseverance in prayer?`

`How does knowing your prayers enable God to do more change the way you pray? How does it affect your relationship with Him?`