---
title:  Heaven’s Special Forces
date:  20/05/2024
---

#### inTerpret

If you visit certain cathedrals or art museums that display Christian paintings, you may come across angels portrayed as fat babies floating on clouds. In Western art, this practice is thought to have originated in the Renaissance period when artists often drew inspiration from ancient Greek and Roman art, which frequently depicted Cupid, the god of love, as a winged child. Some painters may have chosen to portray angels as babies to emphasize their innocence and purity.

The Bible, however, paints a very different picture of the holy messengers. From Scripture, we know that angels are created, supernatural, celestial beings who hold extraordinary power. Just think—in one night, one angel from heaven destroyed the entire Assyrian army of 185,000 soldiers (2 Kings 19:35). God’s heavenly forces include millions (Dan. 7:10) of angels who are eager to go on His missions and do His bidding. We’re also told that angels sometimes appear to be clothed in intense brightness—shining with the “glory of the Lord” (Luke 2:9), which often overwhelms and frightens the people they appear to (Matt. 28:2–4). Angels have wings and can fly swiftly (Exod. 25:20; Ezek. 10:5–21; Isa. 6:2–6; Dan. 9:21), but in many biblical stories, they appear to be human (Gen. 19:1–16; Heb. 13:2), which tells us they can supernaturally change their appearance.

Angels have played a major role in the great controversy from the very beginning. After all, Satan used to be a covering cherub named Lucifer—one of the highest-ranking angels—and the rebellion started with him before spreading to a third of all the angels (see Rev. 12:4, 9). Those who remained loyal to God fulfill various duties in heaven and earth, which keep them busy going back and forth between the two (Gen. 28:12). These powerful beings are completely devoted to accomplishing God’s mission of saving you and me (Ps. 103:20, 21). Their work includes delivering information from the throne room to the believer (Dan. 10:11), serving as agents of God’s judgment (2 Sam. 24:16; 2 Thess. 1:6–8), protecting God’s people, and delivering them from harm in the most extreme circumstances (Dan. 6:22; Acts 5:19, 20; 12:7–10)—all as God wills it.

In His infinite wisdom, God involved the unfallen angels in His work of redemption. They get a front-seat view and experience of how it looks and feels to live in the middle of this controversy. They are currently witnessing the results of their former leader’s rebellion. At the same time, they get to watch God’s mercy and grace in action by seeing the wonderful work accomplished by Jesus’ sacrifice and ministry as High Priest. They will never personally experience salvation from sin, but they better understand the depths of God’s love for His creations as they witness all He does to save sinners.

It’s fascinating to know we have these celestial beings as helpers and protectors even if we don’t see them. We are not left alone in the spiritual war against Satan and sin. All of heaven is poured out in aid and support for God’s beloved children.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How does knowing that angels fight for, support, and protect us affect your perspective on spiritual battles you face?`