---
title:  Your Great Prince
date:  22/05/2024
---

#### inVite

There’s a great benefit to having an older sibling who cares for you and protects you, especially when you’re a child. If you’re being bullied by other kids, for instance, you know you have someone you can call to for help. Since you’re reading this, it’s safe to assume you probably don’t need such physical protection from an older sibling anymore, but in the spiritual realm, we are all as vulnerable as a young child. The great controversy is more brutal and dangerous than any bully in the schoolyard could ever be. Thankfully, we have a big Brother who can help. When we feel the enemy closing in, we can call on the One who cares for us and protects us, because “He is not ashamed to call [us] brethren” (Heb. 2:11).

Jesus also pays attention to the angels’ needs and acts as the reinforcements in their fight against the enemy. In Daniel 10, we find Jesus providing backup to a very prominent angel. Though not mentioned by name, it’s reasonable to conclude that the angelic being of verse 11 is the same angel who appears in the previous two chapters, identified as the angel Gabriel in Daniel 8:16. In chapter 8, this angel came to explain the 2,300-day prophecy, which foretold the cleansing of the sanctuary (vv. 14–16), and in chapter 9, he delivered the 70-week prophecy that specifies the timing of the Messiah’s first coming (vv. 21–24).

In chapter 10, the angelic being says, “The prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days; and behold, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, for I had been left alone there with the kings of Persia” (v. 13). In the fight over the prince of Persia, even Gabriel had to call for backup.

Michael is first introduced in the book of Daniel (10:13; 12:1) and is only mentioned again in Jude and Revelation. There are several indicators that Michael is not simply the name of another angel but more of a title for none other than Jesus Christ. First, the name Michael means “Who is like God”—a perfect title for Jesus, who is part of the Godhead and was literally God manifested in human flesh (John 1:14; 14:9). Second, while angels such as Gabriel request backup at times, Michael never needs backup as He is always victorious. Nothing can stand against Him, including the devil (Dan. 10:13; 12:1; Jude 1:9; Rev. 12:7–10). Third, Michael is “the great prince who stands watch over the sons of your people” (Dan. 12:1). A prince serves as a chief or commander, which aptly describes Jesus’ leadership role over the angels (e.g., Isa. 9:6; Acts 3:15). Michael is also referred to as an archangel (Jude 1:9), which in this case does not indicate that He is a created being, as some have suggested. Rather, it’s because He serves as the leader of the angels. Paul also acknowledged that the title of archangel belonged to Jesus when he referred to Jesus’ voice as that of an archangel (1 Thess. 4:16; cf. John 5:25).

Jesus is our divine Prince of Peace, our Warrior who fights for His children. He is the Archangel, the Leader of the angels, and at His word, legions jump into action (Matt. 26:53). With such assurance, power, and support, who can stand against us? We have a divine big Brother as our protector. His presence and strength induce fear among the demonic forces, and at the mere mention of His name, Satan and all his host tremble.

Journal:

`Meditate on Daniel 10 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What aspects of your life need Prince Michael’s darkness-dispelling presence?`

`How do you see Jesus differently in the light of this week’s lesson?`