---
title:  Further Thought
date:   08/06/2018
---

Satan’s attack on God’s law is an attack on God Himself, both on His authority and on His government. So, in the last days, in the climactic events of the final crisis, Satan will be attacking those who keep “the commandments of God” (Rev. 12:17, 14:12) , for they alone on the earth will be refusing to pay him homage through his proxies here on earth. The battle that he waged against God in heaven long ago will be continued here on earth, and just as he was defeated in heaven he will be defeated here on earth, as well. “From the very beginning of the great controversy in heaven it has been Satan’s purpose to overthrow the law of God. It was to accomplish this that he entered upon his rebellion against the Creator, and though he was cast out of heaven he has continued the same warfare upon the earth. To deceive men, and thus lead them to transgress God’s law, is the object which he has steadfastly pursued. Whether this be accomplished by casting aside the law altogether, or by rejecting one of its precepts, the result will be ultimately the same. He that offends ‘in one point’, manifests contempt for the whole law; his influence and example are on the side of transgression; he becomes ‘guilty of all.’ (James 2:10) ”. — Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 582.

**Discussion Questions:**

`1. In class, talk about world events and in what ways they are pointing to what we believe needs to happen in the last days. What events still need to unfold? How can we learn to keep vigilant about the signs of the times while avoiding fanaticism, date setting, and making bold predictions about things that the Bible and Ellen White’s writings have not explicitly taught?`

`2. Dwell more on the question of worship. What does it mean to worship something? How do we worship whatever it is we do worship?`

`3. Dwell more on the idea that God still has people in Babylon. What do we understand as the meaning of the term “Babylon” (which is obviously a symbol and not literal)? What does this teach us about our obligation to continue preaching our message to others, regardless of their political and or religious beliefs?`
