---
title:  Justification by Faith
date:   21/10/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law” (Rom. 3:28, KJ21).

**Introduction**: Titus 3:5

**By His Mercy**


There is an old story of a man who accidently fell into a deep dry well. It was dark down there. He was screaming for help, but there seemed to be no hope. Finally, someone passed the well and found a way to help him. A rope was dropped down to the bottom of the well. The man started to climb up the rope and finally reached the surface—safe and sound.

Could he claim that he was saved by his own efforts in climbing up the well? He probably could, but given the depth of the well, he might have fallen in again every time he tried. However, if nothing had been given to him, no rope or anything, could he have saved his own life?

There has always been discussion among believers about salvation.

Many people think that they could be saved by works and good deeds. But if that’s true, every time we made mistakes and fell into sin, we would be exposed to death, since “the wages of sin is death” (Rom. 6:23, NIV). As sinners, we “were dead in transgressions and sins” (Eph. 2:1, NIV). Therefore, the Bible explains that it is “not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to His mercy He saved us” (Titus 3:5, NKJV). God, by His grace and mercy, has done everything necessary for us to be saved.

“For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast” (Eph. 2:8, 9, NKJV). “Being justified freely by His grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus” (Rom. 3:24, NKJV). So the Bible has made it clear that it is by His grace and mercy, not by our own efforts, that we are saved.

Though we strive to live lives of faith and sometimes experience ups and downs, “He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness” (1 John 1:9, NKJV). Although good deeds can’t save us, they are evidence that we really trust Him and allow Him to transform us. Only believers who receive the Holy Spirit (John 7:38, 39) and produce the fruit of the Spirit (Gal. 5:22, 23) are those who truly receive God’s gift by faith.

Then what should we do to receive God’s mercy and grace? “And he brought them out and said, ‘Sirs, what must I do to be saved?’ So they said, ‘Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household’ ” (Acts 16:30, 31, NKJV). Ask God and trust Him for your salvation. It is important to remember that He’s the only one who can do it for us.

_Osvald Taroreh, Jakarta, Indonesia_