---
title:  Justification by Faith
date:   22/10/2017
---

**Evidence**: Rom. 3:19–28; James 2:10, 18; Rev. 14:12

According to the Merriam-Webster dictionary, the definitions of justification are “an acceptable reason for doing something; something that justifies an action; the act, process, or state of being justified by God.” <sup>1</sup> The word justify (Hebrew, tsaddiq; Greek, dikaioo) is used in the Bible often in the forensic sense to denote pardon or acquittal. <sup>2</sup>

The reason why the law cannot justify someone is clearly stated: “For by the law is the knowledge of sin” (Rom. 3:20). The law can open the sinner’s eyes to his or her sin; but it cannot remove it. How can humans be justified if all are under sin? We can be justified in the sight of God through faith in Jesus Christ. We are “ justified as a gift by His grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus” (verse 24, NASB). Even though we are all guilty of breaking God’s law, He offers a pardon to all who trust in Jesus.

Furthermore, justification reveals how God deals with our sins and accepts us as righteous in His sight. It does not mean to make just but simply to declare just.

How can a sinner be just before God? The Bible says a sinner can be just before God by faith alone. “Without faith it is impossible to please God” (Heb. 11:6, NIV). “For we maintain that a person is justified by faith apart from the works of the law” (Rom. 3:28, NIV; see also Rom. 5:1).

However, if somebody breaks any one of the commandments, he or she is guilty of breaking them all and incurs the judgment of God (James 2:10). James stressed that we should show our faith. It must be something that can be seen by others, exhibited in good works (James 2:18; see also Matt. 19:17 and Rom. 2:13). James is dealing with people who profess to be Christians, yet they don’t prove the reality of their faith by their works. He says that real faith always produces works as a result. The question is why James and Paul have different ideas in their teaching. Are they contradictory? No. Paul is stressing the root of justification (faith); James is stressing the fruit of justification (works). Paul is speaking about justification before God, while James is talking about justification before humans.

**React**

`What is the source of our justification? the evidence of our justification?`

<sup>1. Merriam-Webster, s. v. “justification,” accessed July 12, 2016, http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/justification.</sup>
<sup>2. Jonathan R. Huggins, Living Justification (Eugene, OR: Wipf & Stock Publishers, 2013), p. 21.</sup>

_Ronny Rambi, West Jakarta, Indonesia_