---
title:  Unlocking the Mystery of Salvation
date:   23/10/2017
---

**Logos**: Rom. 3:28; 7:22–24

**What Salvation Gets You** (Luke 18:9–14; Rom. 2:14, 15)

How can one be delivered from the struggle of this world? The answer was a mystery. The epistle to the Romans tells us that some people decided to solve it against God’s will (Rom. 1:30–32); others choose to follow God’s directions, through the teaching of the Torah or their conscience (Rom. 2:14, 15). In reality, people who worked through their own best efforts outside of God’s will ended up in desperation (see Eccles. 2:22, 23); the rest ended up in frustration or even self-destruction (see Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel 4:28–33 and Herod in Acts 12:21–23).

Big trouble is found among those who choose to be saved by following God’s will. Though the law is a way of happiness (Pss. 1; 119), those who make God’s law the way to be righteous find two problems. The first problem is indicated in the parable narrated by Jesus in Luke 18:9–14. The one who obeyed the law became unrighteous because he developed a self-centered religion.

From that story, the Pharisee said, “I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I possess” (verse 12, NKJV). Such a religious person sacrifices himself for God through his obedience. In contrast, another person, with a job that most people hated, humbly prayed, “God, be merciful to me a sinner!” (verse 13, NKJV). Jesus clearly explained what lesson the people should learn from the story. “I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other; for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted” (verse 14, NKJV).

The second problem is that those who try to live a holy life by obeying God’s law sooner or later discover that they could never fulfill the requirements (Rom. 7:22–24). Desperation, frustration, and self-destruction are also experienced. If a person keeps thinking of performing good deeds and making that the focus of his or her daily life, then that person is not following the will of God, which is to receive His gift of salvation through faith.

**Cheap Salvation?** (Rom. 3:23, 24, 28)

Martin Luther discovered the key to the mystery of righteousness. The book of Romans opened his eyes to the wondrous work of salvation. He saw that no one would ever be able to make himself right, good, or happy. That is because of man’s sinful nature. Righteousness can only be found through redemption. The epistle to the Romans clarified: “For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified freely by His grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus” (Rom. 3:23, 24, NKJV).

Only God Himself can restore humanity to righteousness. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, was sacrificed to redeem human beings and provide their true righteous nature. Everyone who wants to be righteous can only accept it by faith, and they will never get it by any work. This is the good news of salvation. Jesus is the way for everyone who wants to be delivered from the struggle of this world and have a righteous, free, and happy life. In what way has the teaching of righteousness by faith been so misunderstood? Can the giving of the Ten Commandments clarify the misunderstanding?

In verse 28, Paul affirms that “a person is justified by faith apart from the works of the law.” This statement has been misunderstood in many ways. Some people see salvation as cheap, considering having faith in Jesus to mean freedom to do anything they want. Some people blame Paul furiously, considering him to be a false apostle who makes Christianity a religion without rule. In this regard, some Christians refuse Pauline writings and accept only the Gospels.

**The Spirit of the Rules** (Exod. 20:1–17)

The book of Exodus gives a background understanding of how God provided righteousness. God gave His law on Mount Sinai. Exodus 20:3–17 enumerates in detail the rules that God wants His people to fulfill. However, in order to understand the spirit of the rules, we need to read verses 1 and 2. “And God spoke all these words, saying, ‘I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.’ ” This passage introduces the Giver of the Law before it describes the content of the law. It clearly states that deliverance was provided by God freely.

In other words, God did not first demand that the Israelites be righteous by fulfilling His law as the requirement for their deliverance from Egypt. By His love, God simply called them to follow Him, and as they trusted Him, He did great miracles and delivered them from bondage.

This text shows that God did not use the Ten Commandments as a requirement for deliverance from Egypt. He only required faith. Then, after being released, the Ten Commandments were given. It shows that the law is provided for them to truly enjoy life after deliverance (see Pss. 19:7–11; 112; 119). Based on this, we can understand that righteousness comes not by the works of the law but by life-changing faith.

_E. H. Michael Palar, Jakarta, Indonesia_