---
title:  Disconnected
date:   25/10/2017
---

**How-to**: Rom. 3:23, 24

In the lives of young people, the discussion that never stops is that of relationships, whether it’s friendship or romance. If a relationship has been established, it feels wonderful. However, in the opposite way, if a relationship becomes tenuous, cracked, or broken, then those feelings become gloomy.

Sinful human beings suffer because of a cracked or shattered relationship with God. As a result, we often run away from Him. The message of the Bible aims to improve relations that have been fractured between God and humanity.

When we use the word justification, we apply it to sinners. Justification requires sin. In order to be able to understand and appreciate justification or salvation, we must understand what sin is and how we became sinners.

The answer goes back to the Garden of Eden. When God created Adam and Eve, He gave them free moral choice. They had the ability to obey or disobey their Creator. They made the unfortunate, or rather the fatal, choice to abuse their freedom and disobey God.

By breaking the will of God, Adam and Eve brought death upon the earth. However, through God’s love and moral responsibility to His children, He designed the plan of salvation before the foundation of the earth (Eph. 1:4 and 2 Tim. 1:9). God’s grace made our first parents enjoy life for a time, but sin would make death inevitable. Because Jesus became our substitute and took the penalty of death upon Himself, God can protect us, the ones who actually deserve the penalty.

Justification relies only upon God’s love and concern for the welfare of His children in this world. By His grace, God intends to give sinners a chance to form a relationship with Him. Eternal life is possible only in union with God, because He is the only source of life in the universe. Justification through faith in God affords a person freedom from sin and its penalty.

**React**

`Will I choose Jesus as a role model and obey His Word?`

`What will I do in order to maintain a relationship with God?`

_Oktoverano Lengkong, Airmadidi, Indonesia_