---
title:  God Is for You
date:   27/10/2017
---

**Exploration**: Eph. 2:1–10

**Conclude**:

The message throughout Scripture is that God is for humans. He’s for His children. God uses different people to communicate that message. Paul is one of them. He uses more technical and legal terms, but the message is the same: God loves His children. He desires their good. He’s not only for them, He’s with them. He wants to be part of their lives, their journey. Salvation is not just about God saving you from your sins; it’s also about Him having your back at home, making a life together, learning to live again, and restoring and fulfilling His dreams through your life. That’s what grace is.

**Consider**

- Writing your own story, after reading and deciding which of the three stories that Jesus told in Luke 15 you identify the most with.
- Doing a word study of grace. How is grace presented in Scripture?
- Telling someone how Jesus has made a difference in your life.
- Visiting congregations of different faith traditions and asking people what their understanding is of salvation by grace.
- Preparing a short talk on faith and grace and its relationship to salvation and presenting it to a group of your friends.
- Starting a ministry to support people who have suffered from legalism, antinomianism, or any other unhealthy understanding of the Christian faith.

**Connect**

1. Luke 15; 2 Samuel 9; Ephesians 2:1–10.
2. Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ.
3. W. W. Prescott, Victory in Christ (Review and Herald®, 2007).
4. Ty Gibson, Shades of Grace (Pacific Press®, 2001).

_Sergio Torres, Orlando, Florida, USA