---
title:  Opposing Sunday Laws
date:   16/03/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 14:1–13**

**Opposing Sunday Laws**

The efforts in the 1880s to nationalize Christianity in the United States included a strong push to legally establish Sunday as the national day of rest. On May 21, 1888, Senator Henry W. Blair presented “The Sunday-Rest Bill,” which was introduced as “a bill to secure to the people the enjoyment of the first day of the week, commonly known as the Lord’s day, as a day of rest, and to promote its observance as a day of religious worship” (Alonzo T. Jones, The Two Republics [1892], 830). The bill would prohibit unnecessary work and recreation that disturbed others on Sundays, and would restrict Sunday mail, commerce, transportation, and military parades, among other things. The U.S. Senate held a public hearing on this bill on December 13, 1888, where Alonzo T. Jones, prolific author, speaker, and religious liberty advocate, voiced the concerns of Seventh-day Adventists and other religious minorities: “Our national Constitution embodies the very principle announced by Jesus Christ, that the civil government shall have nothing to do with religion, or with what pertains to God; but shall leave that to every man’s conscience and his God” (Alonzo T. Jones, National Sunday Law [1892], 43). He denied that the government had any right to legislate anything that pertains to our duties to God. On this basis he declared Sunday laws to not only be unconstitutional but also antichristian.

This position drew Adventists into opposition against other Christians and temporary alignment with Jewish organizations, secular agencies, and saloon owners who opposed Sunday closings. In the December 1888 edition of the American Sentinel, Jones defended Adventism, saying, “We are Christians too.” He acknowledged that many Christians were “ready to call us Liberals.” To that Jones responded that we “are liberal enough to maintain that all other men inalienably possess all the rights, human, civil and religious, that Christians possess.” In this same year, Ellen White published her expanded edition of _The Great Controversy_, a book that showed the prophetic and historical significance of Sunday legislation. Blair’s bill was defeated, but there’s still interest in the issue of Sunday legislation today. This week’s lesson will explore the prophetic significance of all attempts to legislate Sunday observance.

### inScribe

Write out Revelation 14:1–13 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 1–5. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._