---
title:  Written on the Forehead
date:   17/03/2024
---

### inGest

Revelation 13 and 14 portray the world as being split into two polarized groups. The first receives the mark of the beast on their foreheads or their right hands along with the beast’s name and number (Rev. 13:16, 17), and the other has the seal of God, which includes the Father’s name (Rev. 14:1), placed on their foreheads (Rev. 7:3). These contrasting symbols represent two starkly opposed identities and allegiances. One group marvels at the beast and follows him wherever he goes; the other loves the Lamb and follows Him wherever He goes (Rev. 13:3; 14:4). One imbibes the beast’s deceptions; the other is not deceived (Rev. 13:14; 14:5). One is drunk on Babylon’s sins; the other remains pure and undefiled (Rev. 14:4, 8). One conforms to the illegitimate decrees of human government; the other stands faultless before God and His throne (Rev. 13:15–17; 14:5).

As Scripture shows, there has always been at least one people group who faithfully obey God’s commandments. For Israel, God’s law functioned as both an inward brand or seal on their hearts and an outward sign that set them apart, as Deuteronomy describes: “And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart.... You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes [i.e., on the forehead]” (6:6–8). Israel’s obedience to the Ten Commandments and lack of idols in their homes were clear signs of their trust in God. It set them apart from all the nations around them. God’s people talked differently. They kept the seventh-day Sabbath while surrounding nations observed Sunday in honor of the sun god. Honorable intrafamily relationships, sexual purity, truth-telling, and respect for human life, property, and other’s rights were all very countercultural to the peoples around them. Israel was markedly different, which served as a nonverbal testimony to all they encountered.

The New Testament confirms that God still desires to write His law in our minds (Heb. 8:10) and uphold obedience to His commandments as an outward sign of His people (1 John 2:3, 4). Choosing to keep God’s commandments is choosing to announce that our primary citizenship is in heaven, for the world certainly notices that something is different about those who do. Following God’s law indicates whom we belong to and who receives our allegiance.

Obedience does not come from a place of mere duty but from hearts overflowing with love for the Father (1 John 5:3). It comes from accepting God’s love (1 John 4:19), not from any intrinsically human initiative. Our deep love for God empowers us to endure any hardship and remain loyal and obedient to Him through it all.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`How can we experience God writing His law on our hearts and minds today?`

`How can we give God our complete allegiance?`