---
title:  The Seal
date:   18/03/2024
---

### inTerpret

Of all the commandments that serve as an outward sign of our allegiance to God, the Sabbath is arguably the most visible. Sabbath keeping that focuses on God’s blessings, His sanctifying work, and our rest (see Gen. 2:3) creates abundant opportunities for sharing our faith. Every time we ask a supervisor for Sabbath work accommodations, decline a friend’s invitation to a Saturday event, or ask a person to find another day to work on our property, we declare that God is the ultimate priority in our lives. Furthermore, because most of the Christian world doesn’t understand the blessings the seventh-day Sabbath brings, true Sabbath keeping reveals to fellow believers the importance God places on Scripture above tradition and on His law above ours. Because the Sabbath is exceptionally relational and visible, it’s not surprising that the Bible highlights the Sabbath (see Ezek. 20:12) as the ultimate sign of our allegiance even beyond the other commandments. Ceasing from our own works on God’s Sabbath is a sign that we acknowledge total reliance on God’s work in our hearts.

Some signs serve very specific purposes. For example, a seal is an official sign that indicates authority and credibility. An official seal contains a title, a jurisdiction, and sometimes a name. The Sabbath commandment in Exodus 20:8–11 contains all three: the title of Creator, His jurisdiction over all creation, and the name of the Lord God. If the Sabbath commandment is modified or removed from the commandments, God’s seal is missing from His law and His identity as Lawgiver is no longer known. None of the other nine commandments identify God’s title and jurisdiction and they therefore rely on the Sabbath commandment to make the law complete.

The metaphor of having God’s seal on our foreheads represents the reality of the new covenant, under which we are to walk through life with His law emblazoned on our hearts and minds (Heb. 8:10; cf. Isa. 56:1–7). God’s holy Sabbath lies at the heart of God’s holy law. It therefore makes sense that Satan would stir up the most bitter hatred for this centerpiece of God’s commandments. The more we see hostility to the Sabbath increasing, the more prominently true Sabbath keepers stand apart as loyal to the Creator. The seventh-day Sabbath is God’s special and official seal upon those He has a covenant relationship with (Ezek. 20:12, 20). This seal is a gift from God and a work of God. No person can seal themselves or anyone else for eternity; only the power of the Holy Spirit can (Eph. 4:30).

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What does it look like for an individual to live with the seal of God on their forehead? For a body of believers?`