---
title:  Mark of the Beast
date:   20/03/2024
---

### inVite

The scene of the Lamb standing on Mount Zion in Revelation 14:1 brings great relief after the chaos, darkness, and oppression so vividly depicted in Revelation 13. As the prophetic lens shifts from the troubling events of this world back to the heavenly, the reader is assured that God’s voice has not been drowned out and God has not forgotten or lost sight of His people. Those who stand before God’s throne testify by their very presence that He has indeed preserved His people through all the trials they have faced.

The enemy has a sinister strategy to lead God’s people away from being part of this group: the mark of the beast and the crisis when it gains popularity. God’s promise to sustain His people (Rev. 14:1–5) is preceded and followed by a warning against receiving that mark, which is the counterfeit seal of God. It signals loyalty to human laws and traditions whereas the seal signals faithfulness to God’s law above all else. The seal of God is a gift, given along with the promised rest and blessings to those who honor the seventh-day Sabbath (Gen. 2:3; Exod. 20:8–11). If God’s seal involves the true Sabbath, it stands to reason that the mark of the beast involves the counterfeit Sabbath. This counterfeit is defended by human tradition and church dogma, something we see happening even in early church history when religious rulers and counsels asserted the authority to override God’s law (Dan. 7:25). While the Bible makes a strong case for the Sabbath being the sign of God’s authority, the Catholic Church claims that Sunday replaced the Sabbath. Pope John Paul II wrote that Sunday “stands at the heart of all worship” and “is so close to the Church’s heart” (Apostolic Letter “Dies Domini” [May 31, 1998]). It ultimately comes down to worshiping according to God’s way or according to man’s tradition.

These two opposing systems of worship will finally collide when the church gains enough influence over the state to force its false day of worship on the general public. The mark of the beast crisis will play out when the government seeks to enforce church tradition through Sunday legislation. No one will receive the mark of the beast as long as religious freedom remains, but the final showdown between good and evil will come when the main point of contention will be worship.

The last few minutes of a game are often the most intense. Wherever they are, onlookers tend to grow louder and more captivated the closer the conclusion gets. Like the last few minutes of a game, prophecy indicates that the struggle between the beast’s mark and God’s seal will be extra intense given that it will be the final cosmic battle in this world’s history. Now is the time to get to know Christ and exercise faith in Him before it’s too late. No earthly or hellish power can prevent any one of us from being in the group that stands before God’s throne if we practice surrendering our hearts and following the Lamb every day in the here and now (Rev. 14:4, 5).

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`What are some ways we can exercise our faith now, before the final conflict begins?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`