---
title:  My Name Is Peter
date:   25/03/2017
---

### My Name Is Peter

> <p></p>
> “But when he saw that the wind was boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink he cried out, saying, ‘Lord, save me!’ “And immediately Jesus stretched out His hand and caught him, and said to him, ‘O you of little faith, why did you doubt?’ ” (Matt. 14:30, 31, NKJV).

My name is Peter, and I am a coward.

It started one night at dinner, as Jesus sat with my friends and me. He shared many disturbing things with us. He broke bread and passed it around, calling it His “body.” He shared a cup of grape juice with us and called it His “blood.” He spoke of trials to come.

That’s when I heard the rooster crow.
And then He talked about how Satan was demanding to have me, that Satan wanted to sift me as if I were wheat. He said that He Himself had prayed that my faith would not fail. I tried to set Jesus straight, saying, “ ‘Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death’ ” (Luke 22:33, ESV). However, Jesus told me that I would deny that I even knew Him that same night—and not just once, but three times—before the rooster crowed!

Clearly, I loved the Lord more than anyone! I had been with Him from the beginning of His ministry and had listened to Him preach. I had walked on water to meet Him during a storm! The thought that I would deny knowing Him was preposterous!

Until . . .

Until a servant girl, huddled over the fire near me, called out that I had been with Jesus.

Until a man near her confirmed that I was someone who had been with Jesus. Until another man pointed out that I was Galilean and knew I had been with Jesus.

I told the servant girl that I did not know Jesus. I told the first man that I had not been with Jesus. To the third person, I swore an oath and told him that I did not know what he was talking about. That’s when I heard the rooster crow.

That night Jesus was tried in front of a corrupt council. The next day He was beaten, taunted, condemned to death, and forced to carry His own cross through the streets. He was hung upon the cross, mocked, and then, as He whispered, “It is finished,” He died.

But that’s not the end of the story! Jesus rose from the dead. Death could not contain the glory of God! And because He endured all of that, my sin has been cleansed. My debt has been paid. Jesus took my place in death!

My name is Peter, and I am redeemed.

_Allison Sauceda, Centerville, Ohio, U.S.A._