---
title:  The Change in Peter
date:   26/03/2017
---

### The Change in Peter

Matt. 4:18; 16:13–23; Mark 1:16–18; Luke 22:31–34, 54–62; John 1:40–42; 21:15–19; 1 Pet. 5:4

If you look in the Bible for someone completely transformed by Christ, you need look no further than Simon Peter. This week we look at Peter before Christ entered his life, the transformation he underwent, and how Christ ultimately used him to bring many into the newly founded Christian church.

**Simon realized that Jesus had been looking for him, and suddenly he felt found.**

**Simon the Person (Matt. 4:18)**

The selection of Simon to be on Jesus’ team reveals how badly Jesus needed a good human resources office to vet His disciples. There could hardly have been a worse choice than Simon. He was uneducated, especially in the eyes of the religious leaders with whom Jesus would interact. And he had so much to learn! At the same time, he didn’t have so much to “unlearn.” He was teachable.

As a fisherman, Simon had low status in Jewish society. Fishermen often have a certain “air” about them, and it’s not pleasant.

Furthermore, in Jesus’ time, fishermen were considered ritually unclean because they often had to handle unclean fish that were snared in their nets. Yet, seven of the original 12 apostles were fishermen.

**Simon Becomes Peter (Mark 1:16–18; John 1:40–42)**

Andrew, a disciple of John the Baptist, heard John bear witness of Jesus as being the Messiah. Filled with joy, Andrew found his brother Simon and invited him to come and meet Jesus. When Jesus saw Simon for the first time, He said, “ ‘ You are Simon son of John’ ” (John 1:42, NIV). Simon realized that Jesus had been looking for him, and suddenly he felt found.

Then Jesus said those words that would not only change Simon’s name but change his life: “ ‘You shall be called Cephas’ ” (verse 42, NKJV). Cephas means “stone” in Aramaic. The Greek equivalent is Peter—the stone. He rolled around and was tossed like a pebble for a while, but ultimately he grew into the name.

Later Jesus sees Simon and Andrew fishing and says, “ ‘Follow Me, and I will make you become fishers of men’ ” (Mark 1:17, NKJV). Immediately, they left their nets to follow Jesus!

**Peter the Rock and Stumbling Block (Matt. 16:13–23)**

In Matthew 16:13, Jesus asks His disciples, “ ‘Who do people say the Son of Man is?’ ” (NIV). Peter, through a revelation from the Father in heaven, blurts out, “ ‘You are the Messiah, the Son of the living God!’ ” (verse 16, NIV). Jesus commends him for his answer. Peter is the first to realize it, and Jesus reminds him that he is the stone.

From that time on, Jesus began to talk about His coming rejection, death, and resurrection. Aghast, Peter remonstrated with Jesus, saying, “ ‘Never, Lord!’ ” (verse 22, NIV). To that, Jesus replied, “ ‘Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block’ ” (verse 23, NIV). Peter understood that Jesus was the Messiah but still misunderstood the true nature of His mission.

**Peter the Denier (Luke 22:31–34, 54–62)**

Unfortunately, the last interchange between Jesus and Peter was marred by Peter’s arrogance. Jesus said, “ ‘Satan has asked for you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for you, that your faith should not fail’ ” (Luke 22:31, 32, NKJV). Peter replied emphatically, “ ‘Lord, I am ready to go with You, both to prison and to death’ ” (verse 33, NKJV). How painful for him to hear Jesus’ next words: “ ‘I tell you, Peter, the rooster shall not crow this day before you will deny three times that you know Me’ ” (verse 34, NKJV).

After Peter’s third denial, Jesus locked eyes with him (verse 61). Peter was a broken man. He left and wept bitterly. And then Jesus was gone. Peter’s last words were denial of his Lord. How could he face this memory?

**Peter the Shepherd (John 21:15–19; 1 Pet. 5:4)**

When Jesus was raised from the dead, Peter was overjoyed. He was one of the first at the tomb because he ran. But the memory of his denial still haunted him. Was he cast out from being a disciple?

Jesus answered that question by the Sea of Galilee. After having caught no fish, the disciples were given advice by a stranger on the shore, resulting in a net full of fish. Realizing that the stranger was Jesus, Peter jumped into the water and swam to the shore—beating everyone else.

After breakfast, Jesus said, “ ‘Simon, . . . do you love Me more than these?’ ” Peter replied, “ ‘Yes, Lord; You know that I love You.’ ” Jesus said, “ ‘Feed My lambs’ ” (John 21:15, NKJV). Twice more Jesus asked the question. Peter must have become more distressed at each repetition of the question—answering each time, “ ‘Yes, Lord.’ ” Each time Jesus responded, “ ‘Feed My sheep.’ ” Three times Peter had denied Jesus. Three times He gave Peter the opportunity to express his love. Peter was not rejected but forgiven! He would go on to write the letters of 1 and 2 Peter in this role as shepherd—encouraging the flock to remember that Jesus is coming again and that “when the Chief Shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that will never fade away” (1 Pet. 5:4, NIV).

**REACT**

`1. What new name might Jesus give to you?`
`2. How have you denied Jesus? What assurance do you have of your own forgiveness?`

_Franke Zollman, Smithsburg, Maryland, U.S.A._