---
title:  “Lord, Save Me!”
date:   27/03/2017
---

### “Lord, Save Me!”

Matt. 14:13–33; Mark 6:30–52; John 6:1–21

“ At the moment when they believe themselves lost, a gleam of light reveals a mysterious figure approaching them upon the water. But they know not that it is Jesus. The One who has come for their help they count as an enemy. . . .

“They think it a phantom that omens their destruction, and they cry out for fear. Jesus advances as if He would pass them; but they recognize Him, and cry out, entreating His help. Their beloved Master turns, His voice silences their fear, ‘Be of good cheer: it is I; be not afraid.’

**“Christ is hidden from his view, and his faith gives way.”**

“ As soon as they could credit the wondrous fact, Peter was almost beside himself with joy. As if he could scarcely yet believe, he cried out, ‘Lord, if it be Thou, bid me come unto Thee on the water. And He said, Come.’

“Looking unto Jesus, Peter walks securely; but as in self-satisfaction he glances back toward his companions in the boat, his eyes are turned from the Saviour. The wind is boisterous. The waves roll high, and come directly between him and the Master; and he is afraid. For a moment Christ is hidden from his view, and his faith gives way. He begins to sink. But while the billows talk with death, Peter lifts his eyes from the angry waters, and fixing them upon Jesus, cries, ‘Lord, save me.’ Immediately Jesus grasps the outstretched hand, saying, ‘O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?’ . . .

“When trouble comes upon us, how often we are like Peter! We look upon the waves, instead of keeping our eyes fixed upon the Saviour. Our footsteps slide, and the proud waters go over our souls. Jesus did not bid Peter come to Him that he should perish; He does not call us to follow Him, and then forsake us.”*

**REACT**

`1. In what ways do you take your eyes off Jesus during difficult times? What kinds of things distract you from maintaining your focus on Him?`

`2. Think of times in your life when you were certain that you could do everything on your own. What transpired that made you realize you were unable to save yourself?`

`3. When you feel overcome in your own life, do you call out to Jesus?`

_Nathan Zollman, Chattanooga, Tennessee, U.S.A._