---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   28/03/2017
---

### Unabashedly Bold for Jesus

Acts 1:15–25; 2:14–36; 4:1–12; 10:1–48

When we first are introduced to Simon Peter in the Bible, we meet an impetuous, self-assured fisherman. Although he was rough around the edges, Jesus was able to look into his heart and see the potential in him. Through his interactions with Christ, Peter became a changed man. Gone were his selfish, brazen ways, replaced by a passion for Jesus and for sharing His Word.

**Peter asked to be crucified upside down.**

After Jesus returned to heaven, Peter went on to become one of the founding fathers of the Christian faith. Glancing through the pages of Acts, we see Peter popping up at every junction, taking his place as a leader in the church (Acts 1:15–25); preaching a sermon on the Day of Pentecost (Acts 2:14–36); defending the healing of a crippled man before the Jewish leaders and proclaiming it done in the name of Jesus of Nazareth (Acts 4:1–12); and preaching to the Gentiles, who had been treated as “unclean” by Jews (Acts 10:1–48).

According to tradition, Mark wrote his Gospel based on the account he received from Peter. Because of this, it is almost as if we are reading the very words of Peter when we read the Gospel of Mark.

Historical evidence points to Peter’s death somewhere around the same time as Paul’s in Rome—about a.d. 67 or 68—during the persecution of Christians. All accounts agree that Peter was put to death by crucifixion.

However, the early church father Origen reports one of the most notable aspects of Peter’s death. Peter felt unworthy to be put to death in the same way as his Master. Because of that, Peter asked to be crucified upside down.* His final request was not to remain alive but simply to die more humbly than his Savior. Peter was unflinchingly and unabashedly bold until the end!

If Jesus could turn such a hardened, foolhardy fellow into one of the founding fathers of His church, what plans do you think He might have for you and me?

**REACT**

`1. In what ways have you been bold for Jesus? If you haven’t been bold in the past, what are some instances when you should have been? What could you have done differently?`

`2. What touches you most about Peter’s transformed life? How can you let Christ transform you more?`

_Andres Sauceda, Centerville, Ohio, U.S.A._