---
title:  Living as a Chosen Person
date:   29/03/2017
---

### Living as a Chosen Person

1 Pet. 1:13–15; 2:9, 11; 5:8; 2 Pet. 2:11

As Seventh-day Adventist Christians, we believe we are called to be a chosen people. We are to live in the world but not be of the world. We all sin; so how does a Christian life look any different from that of someone who doesn’t profess to be a Christian?

When Jesus called Peter and he started his life as a disciple, we know him to be a harsh and somewhat rash individual. Yet, he was chosen— handpicked—by Jesus Himself. Experiencing God’s forgiveness and love caused him to change into the man God could see from the beginning. How can we do this in our lives today? Peter himself gives us some practical advice.

**How close would you allow yourself to get to a hungry, roaring lion?**

Realize that it is God’s grace that has called us to be chosen. God began the process in His love. We can’t take credit for it.

Remember that God calls us to be holy in all our conduct. That means in driving, walking, paying bills, and doing school assignments—whatever we are doing, we are to do with kindness and to the best of our abilities (1 Pet. 1:13–15).

Guard against worldly temptations. We must guard our minds and not repeat the mistakes He has already forgiven. It takes decided, conscious effort. It means not giving in to fleshly lusts that will harm our souls (1 Pet. 2:9–11). It also means not giving in to the temptation of saying bad things about each other (2 Pet. 2:11).

Understand that the devil is walking around “like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour” (1 Pet. 5:8, NKJV). How close would you allow yourself to get to a hungry, roaring lion? We must constantly be on guard so that we do not fall into the devil’s traps!

Keep in mind that we are a chosen generation. Our being chosen does not mean we are better than others. It means we are grateful and much more is expected of us. God is counting on you and me! We are picked by God to show the world who He is and to share the love He has for them through our actions.

**REACT**

`1. What specific changes do you believe God is asking of you, as one of His chosen people?`

`2. How is this different from what the world teaches?`

`3. What does a Christian life look like to you?`

_Melinda Tamaleaa, Topsham, Maine, U.S.A._