---
title:  Hope for a Loser
date:   30/03/2017
---

### Hope for a Loser

1 Pet. 3:8–11

Was Peter a mistake?

I know that Jesus didn’t conduct any interviews before He called His disciples to be “fishers of people,” but did you ever wonder whether perhaps He should have bypassed Peter? I mean, He didn’t have to call both Andrew and Peter just because they were brothers. And it appears that Peter, God bless him, is a loser. Would you keep an employee who had the following record?

- He asks for administrative privileges (Matt. 14:28).
- He is slow to catch on (Matt. 15:15, 16).
- He talks back (Matt. 16:22, 23).
- He speaks up when he should be quiet (Matt. 17:1–4).
- He is not gracious when others make mistakes (Matt. 18:21).
- He is self-seeking (Matt. 19:27).
- He is overconfident (Matt. 26:33).
- He bails out when things get tough (Matt. 26:56).
- He has a foul mouth (Matt. 26:74).
- He lies about his involvement with the company (Matt. 26:69–74).

**It’s pretty amazing what Jesus can do with a loser.**

Why didn’t Jesus fire him? Why did He hire Peter in the first place?

When Jesus is looking for workers, He uses a different standard than we do. While we are interested in performance and efficiency, Jesus looks for a beautiful heart, even when it is harbored in the chest of a loser. His eyes scan the crowd for those who are looking for Him.

Look at the results. His force of 12, including the loser, Peter, turned the world upside down.

The contrast between who Peter was when he hired on and when he finished the job is almost humorous. In one of his letters written some 30 years later, the loser turned leader writes, “ All of you should be of one mind. Sympathize with each other. Be tenderhearted, and keep a humble attitude. . . .

Don’t retaliate with insults when people insult you. . . . ‘Keep your tongue from speaking evil / and your lips from telling lies. / . . . Search for peace, and work to maintain it’ ” (1 Pet. 3:8–11, NLT).

Seriously? Peter wrote that?

Yup. It’s pretty amazing what Jesus can do with a loser.

**REACT**

`What does Peter’s story teach us about the way we evaluate other Christians?`

`What does Peter’s story teach us about the way we evaluate ourselves?`

_Kandace Zollman, Smithsburg, Maryland, U.S.A._