---
title:  Transformation of a Fisherman
date:   31/03/2017
---

### Transformation of a Fisherman

Matt. 14:30, 31; 16:13–19

**CONCLUDE**

Peter underwent a dramatic transformation—from crass, selfish, uneducated fisherman to bold, Christ-centered leader of the church. Peter didn’t change himself; Jesus transformed Peter’s character. Peter continued to follow Jesus even after he knew he had made a huge mistake in denying his Lord. He allowed Jesus to change his heart and replace his fear and selfishness with love. God is calling us as He called Peter—from a life of self-seeking to a life of self-surrender. Only then will we experience true happiness in His best plan for us.

**CONSIDER**

- Creating an entry in your prayer journal about where you are in your walk with God. Are you, like Peter, at the very beginning of your faith experience, still uncertain and unsteady in your faith? Are you discouraged by challenges in your life? Are you leaning on Jesus no matter what happens? What is Jesus trying to teach you right now?
- Talking with your coworkers about Jesus. Share the story of how He has changed your life.
- Starting a small group in which members pray for each other to have greater faith and provide encouragement for each person’s spiritual journey.
- Creating a piece of artwork that depicts transformation.
- Writing and performing a skit that depicts a scene from Peter’s life. Emphasize the transforming power of a relationship with Jesus.
- Reflecting on what we can learn about judging others from studying the life of Peter.

**CONNECT**

Reread the Bible verses listed in the Logos study in several Bible versions of your choosing.

Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chap. 25, “The Call by the Sea,” and chap. 40, “ A Night on the Lake.”

_Christy Yingling Gusse, Loma Linda, California, U.S.A._