---
title:  The Big Picture 
date:  07/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When we suffer, we often feel that our suffering is the only thing that matters. We must understand that war between God and Satan causes everyone to suffer. So, we must trust God during hard times (read Revelation 12:7; Romans 8:22). Habakkuk’s story shows us this Bible truth.

`Why is Habakkuk so upset? Read Habakkuk 1:1–4 for the answer.`

How do you expect God will answer Habakkuk’s prayer? Maybe you think God will say, “That’s awful, Habakkuk. Let Me help you right away.” But God tells Habakkuk that things will get worse. Read God’s answer in Habakkuk 1:5–11.

The Assyrians took the Israelites as prisoners of war. The Israelites had to live in a strange country far from home. God promises that something worse is coming. Soon, the Babylonians will carry away the people of Judah from their land. Habakkuk cries to God in Habakkuk 1:12–17. Then Habakkuk waits for God to answer.

`In Habakkuk 2:2, 3, God makes a special promise before He says that Babylon will be destroyed. How does this promise bring hope to Habakkuk?`

Habakkuk 2 is God’s promise that He will destroy the Babylonians. Hebrews 10:37 uses the quote from Habakkuk 2:3 to show us a future promise about the Savior. This promise shows us that God will destroy “ ‘the big and powerful city of Babylon’ ” (Revelation 18:2, NLV), just as He destroyed the kingdom of Babylon in Old Testament times.

Habakkuk lived between two terrible times. He already saw the Assyrians destroy Israel. Now he learns that Babylon will do worse to Judah. Today, we are in the same place as Habakkuk. Terrible evil has happened and is all around us. But the Bible says that worse is going to come. How does Habakkuk live with the knowledge about the awful things that will happen in the future? Habakkuk learns to see the “whole picture” in the Bible. We praise God when we understand the big picture. In chapter 3, Habakkuk can pray a wonderful prayer of praise to God. Habakkuk knows what God will do in the future.

`Why does Habakkuk have hope? Read Habakkuk 3:16–19 for the answer.`