---
title:  A Picture Of God 
date:  08/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we know, the book of Job starts with Job’s awful experiences of pain and suffering. Job loses everything, except his life and his wife. His wife tells Job to “ ‘curse God and die!’ ” (Job 2:9, ERV). The rest of the book is a conversation between Job and his friends. Job’s friends spend their time trying to figure out why all these terrible things happened to him. While Job’s friends talk, God stays silent and says nothing.

Finally, in Job 38, God starts talking. First, God shows that He does not approve of the ideas of Job’s friends: “ ‘Who do you think you are to disagree with my plans? You do not know what you are talking about’ ” (Job 38:2, NIrV). Second, God asks Job 60 powerful questions. Open your Bible and read about them in Job 38 and Job 39.

After the last question, Job answers, “ ‘I am not worthy to speak! What can I say to you? I cannot answer you! I will put my hand over my mouth. I spoke once [the first time], but I will not speak again. I spoke twice, but I will not say anything more’ ” (Job 40:4, 5, ERV). But God isn’t finished talking. He asks Job another set of “big” questions.

`Read Job’s final answer in Job 42:1–6. What is God trying to tell Job? How does this answer change Job’s heart?`

God doesn’t answer any of the “why” questions that Job’s friends ask. But God does “paint” a picture about His royal power and might. We can see this “picture” about God in nature. Job’s need for an explanation ends when he sees this picture of God’s power and might in nature.

Job’s story shows us a wonderful Bible truth. Hope and encouragement can come from understanding how little we really know. We want to know everything so that we can feel safe. We lose hope when we can’t know. Sometimes God helps us remember we know very little so that we will put our hope in Him. He knows everything.

`Are things happening now that you can’t understand? If yes, think about God and His love. How can thinking about these things give you the hope you need to live with the things you can’t understand?`