---
title:  God Is With Us 
date:  09/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“ ‘I am the Lordord your God, who holds your right hand. And I tell you, “Don’t be afraid! I will help you” ’ ” (Isaiah 41:13, ERV).

Someone said, “Maybe you think God is far away. If yes, ask yourself, ‘Who moved away? Did God? Or did I’?” When troubles come, we often think that God has left us alone. The truth is that God hasn’t gone anywhere.

The Jews who were taken as prisoners of war from their land felt that God was very far away from them. But God promises Isaiah that He will free His people in the future. Then they will come back to Jerusalem. Yes, Isaiah tells the people that this promise will happen many years in the future. But God wants His people to know that He hasn’t moved away from them. They can continue to hope.

`What reasons for hope do God’s people have in this story? Read Isaiah 41:8–14 for the answer. How does the promise in these verses help us as we wait for Jesus to come back and take us to heaven?`

One of the most powerful word pictures in Isaiah 41:8–14 is found in Isaiah 41:13. God controls everything. So, He says His people do not need to fear. He “ ‘holds your right hand’ ” (Isaiah 41:13, ERV). Sure, we can imagine in our minds a picture of God sitting on His big throne while He controls our history many light-years away from our earth. But do you know that God can hold our hands, too?

When we are busy, we may find it hard to remember that God is near us. So, we must remember that God is Immanuel, which means “God with us.” When God is with us, His plans, promises, and life-changing power are with us, too.

`Over the next few days, try this test. Every chance you get, tell yourself that the God who made everything is near enough to hold your hand. He promises to help you. Write down how this changes the way you live. Be ready to talk about your experience in class on Sabbath.`