---
title:  Our Father’s Plans For Us 
date:  10/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Everyone looks for hope. Where do we find it? Some people find hope in the smile of a friend. For other people, hope comes from a thing or another person. Where do you look for hope and courage?`

Jeremiah writes to people who lost hope when they were carried away from their land to Babylon. A writer of the Psalms writes about how the people felt during this time of suffering: “We were sitting by the rivers of Babylon. We wept when we remembered what had happened to Zion” (Psalm 137:1, NIrV). For sure, the people are sad. But Jeremiah gives them reasons why they shouldn’t give up hope.

`What reasons for hope do we read about in Jeremiah 29:1–10?`

These verses give us three important reasons for hope:

(1) God tells His people not to give up hope because their troubles are not caused by bad luck. God announces what He will do for “all those [people] he forced to go from Jerusalem to Babylon” (Jeremiah 29:4, NIrV). Evil is around God’s people. But God will keep His children safe.

(2) God tells His people that they should not give up hope for another reason. He can work in their lives even when things get difficult. “ ‘Also, do good things for the city I sent you to. Pray to the Lordord for the city you are living in, because if there is peace in that city, you will have peace also’ ” (Jeremiah 29:7, ERV).

(3) God tells His people they should not give up hope for a final reason. God is going to bring them home again. “This is what the Lordord says: ‘Babylon will be powerful for 70 years. After that time, I will come to you people who are living in Babylon. I will keep my good promise to bring you back to Jerusalem’ ” (Jeremiah 29:10, ERV).

God explains to His people that He was in control of their past. He also tells His people He is in control of their lives now. He will be in control of their future, too. Then God tells His people how much He cares for them (Jeremiah 29:11–14).

`Read Jeremiah 29:11–14. Change the word “you” to your name in each verse, as if God made these promises to you. How do these promises give you hope?`