---
title:  Our Father’s Training 
date:  11/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 12:5–13. What’s the message to us in these verses? How does this message fit in with what we’ve studied this quarter?`

In Hebrews 12:5–13, Paul explains why we have tests and difficult experiences. He says that God uses these experiences to discipline us. In Greece during Paul’s time, the word “discipline” was the same as “education.” So, if we want to understand “discipline,” we must understand that God teaches us in the school of faith. Paul talks about this idea in Hebrews 11.

All through Hebrews 11, Paul writes about men and women who have strong faith. Their faith keeps them strong when they have difficult experiences and hard tests in life. In chapter 12, Paul tells us that we also can run and finish the “race” of faith with the same strength as the men and women in Hebrews 11. How do we do that? We keep our eyes on Jesus (Hebrews 12:2). Jesus shows us how to behave when times get difficult (Hebrews 12:3). When we read Hebrews 12, it is the same as wearing a pair of reading glasses. Without these glasses, our eyesight or understanding about suffering will always be fuzzy. But when we look through these glasses, our eyesight is corrected. These “glasses” will correct the fuzzy and confusing explanations about suffering that other people try to give us. When we read Hebrews 12, we will understand why we suffer. Then we will behave as Jesus wants us to behave during hard tests and difficult experiences.

**Read Hebrews 12:1–13. Now look at Hebrews 12:5–13 and answer these questions:**

`Who disciplines us?`

`Why are we disciplined?`

`How do we behave when we are disciplined?`

`Read Hebrews 12:1–13 again. Make a list of all the reasons for hope. How has this hope helped you with your spiritual “education”? What about when God has disciplined you? What did you learn?`