---
title:  Further Thought
date:  12/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The School of the Hereafter,” pages 301–309, in Education; and “Help in Daily Living,” pages 470, 471, in The Ministry of Healing.

“Every one of us will feel hopeless and disappointed sometimes in our lives. We will have days when we feel very sad. Then we will have trouble believing that God loves us and cares for us. We will have days filled with troubles. At these times, we may want to die. Many people stop trusting in God when troubles start. They start to doubt everything. At these times, we need spiritual eyesight to understand how God leads us. Then we may see angels trying to save us from ourselves. The angels help us to have faith that is stronger than any mountain. If God opened our eyes to see these angels, then new faith would grow in our hearts.” —Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 162, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Ellen G. White says that all of us will have experiences that make us feel hopeless. Do you know anyone who is feeling hopeless? How can we help people who suffer to find hope?`

`As a class, talk about your answers to Tuesday’s final question. You learned about how God is near you always. How did that thought change you?`

`In class, read parts of Job 38–41. What do these verses tell us about God? What do you learn that gives you hope and encouragement? How do these verses from Job show us God’s love?`

`Hope that changes lives comes from God. Who do you know who needs hope? Spend some time praying for this person. Pray that God will give hope to this person’s life. What more can you do for people who fail to find hope?`

`If someone is willing, ask this person to talk about a time when troubles caused him or her to lose hope and faith. What helped things to change? What can we share with each other that can help us when we lose hope?`