---
title:  Further Thought
date:  02/02/2024
---

Read Psalm 56; Ellen G. White, “Rejoicing in the Lord,” pp. 115-126, in Steps to Christ.

Like the psalmists, God’s people of all times wonder every so often how to sing the Lord’s songs in “a strange land.” Our faith in the sovereign rule of the Lord is challenged, at times severely, and we may ponder whether God is in control or truly as powerful and good as the Scriptures say.

Biblical faith often implies uncertainty and suspense as much as confidence and assertion. Sometimes uncertainty and suspense, especially in the face of evil and God’s seeming absence, can be almost unbearable. Yet, uncertainty must never be about God or His loving and righteous character and trustworthiness. The psalmists may be uncertain about the future, but they often appeal to God’s unfailing love and faithfulness (Ps. 36:5-10; Ps. 89:2, 8).

Likewise, we are to follow the same example. “Summon all your powers to look up, not down at your difficulties; then you will never faint by the way. You will soon see Jesus behind the cloud, reaching out His hand to help you; and all you have to do is to give Him your hand in simple faith and let Him lead you. As you become trustful you will, through faith in Jesus, become hopeful.”—Ellen G. White, _Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5_, pp. 578, 579.

The times when God “hides His face” do not undermine the efficacy of prayer. On the contrary, these occasions cause the psalmists to examine themselves, recall God’s past saving acts, and seek God with confession and humble petitions (Ps. 77:10-12, Ps. 89:46-52). “Faith grows strong by coming in conflict with doubts and opposing influences. The experience gained in these trials is of more value than the most costly jewels.”—Ellen G. White, _Testimonies for the Church, vol. 3_, p. 555.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What tensions did the psalmists experience in the face of evil? What similar tensions have you faced, and how have you dealt with them? How do you maintain your faith during these times?`

`Where should we look for answers when our faith in God is tested by trials or by people whose own sufferings cause them to question the goodness and power of God?`

`How do you answer the common question about evil in a world created and sustained by an all-powerful God of love? How does the great controversy motif help answer, at least somewhat, this challenge?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Desire of Ages_, “The Divine Shepherd,” pp. 480-484;\
_Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5_, “The Seal of God,” p. 209.