---
title:  The Apostle Paul in Rome
date:   30/09/2017
---

**A Lasting Legacy**

> <p></p>
> “First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world” (Rom. 1:8, NKJV).

**Introduction**: Rom. 15:25

On March 19, 1813, Dr. David Livingstone, a Scottish missionary, was born. Little did people know, considering that he grew up thousands of miles away from Africa, that Livingstone would become a great abolitionist, physician, and missionary who would explore Africa in the mid-nineteenth century.

It is always said that the best you can do with your life is to leave behind a lasting legacy after you depart from this world. Dr. Livingstone did leave a legacy with which we can still identify in the twenty-first century. “Livingstone has been positioned as a staunch abolitionist who believed in the dignity of Africans, the viability of commercial enterprises for the continent and the imposition of Christianity, despite indigenous spiritual beliefs.”<sup>1</sup>

**It is always said that the best you can do with your life is to leave behind a lasting legacy after you depart from this world.**

No one paid Livingstone for the work he did. He was a sojourner for a significant cause. He left a lasting legacy. The story of Dr. Livingstone is reminiscent of the story of the apostle Paul, who was the most widely traveled disciple of Christ. Paul traveled the world, “first as a persecutor of Christians . . . and then as one of the greatest Christians that have ever lived.”<sup>2</sup>

About a.d. 61, Paul landed in Rome with a great mission—to spread the gospel of the living God and plant churches in the powerful Roman Empire. Despite prevailing opposition from the Roman government, hostilities that challenged his mission, and life as a prisoner in the land, Paul never tarried in his objective.

He spent his time in prison writing letters that today constitute a large portion of the New Testament. His work as a missionary in Rome yielded positive results that transcend generations. He planted churches, and his mission led to converts. Before his death as a Christian martyr, he achieved the noble objective of winning souls for Christ and fulfilling the goal of the Great Commission (Matt. 28:19).

In the following days, we shall learn more about Paul’s life and mission in the city of Rome.

<sup>1. “David Livingstone Biography,” Biography.com, accessed July 12, 2016, http://www.biography.com/people/david-livingstone-9383955#legacy-and-related-scholarship.</sup>
<sup>2. Wayne Blank, “Paul in Rome,” Daily Bible Study, accessed July 12, 2016, http://www.keyway.ca/htm2000/20000203.htm.</sup>

_Simon Oduor, Rongo, Kenya_