---
title:  Jesus and the Law
date:   01/10/2017
---

**Logos**: Acts 18:1–18; 28:16–31; Rom. 1:8; 15:20–27; Heb. 2:9

**God’s Faithfulness** (Acts 18:9–11)

As a missionary, Paul targeted commercial hubs, capital centers with diverse cultures, and Roman colonies. Since such places had people from different cultures, Paul knew the gospel would move through his hearers to different parts of the globe. The missionary used a straightforward and simple strategy. He started his evangelism from the local synagogues, targeting the Jewish community. When they resisted, he would turn to a non-Jewish audience.

All the same, it was not without challenges. Notwithstanding his bold character, sheer determination, and unflinching courage, Paul mentions moments when he was fearful, weak, and distressed (1 Cor. 2:3; 1 Thess. 3:7). Yet in the face of daunting challenges, Paul depended on God’s faithfulness. When he ran out of funds to support evangelism ventures and personal needs, he relied on God to provide.

God was also faithful to provide converts, even in the face of fierce opposition. God countered sin with grace, bringing former thieves, adulterers, swindlers, and many more to submit their hearts to the gospel. Above all, God was faithful to provide protection, confirm His presence, and prove His purpose (Acts 18:9, 10).

In many instances, we give excuses when faced with mission tasks. Little do we know that we are just instruments God uses to accomplish His purpose. As in the case of the apostle Paul, God already has great plans to ensure that we succeed in ministry. He did it for Paul. He can do it for us. We just need to reciprocate with faithful service.

**Ambition Beyond the Grave** (Rom. 15:20–27)

In Romans 15, Paul calls us to the realization that all things are possible when we allow God to work with and through us. People have different ambitions to achieve in their lives. Many give priority to money, family, education, or pleasure. However, as Christians, we should be driven by a greater ambition— an aspiration that lasts long after this life. After his conversion, Paul used his time to accomplish a noble objective. He traveled long distances and endured suffering to establish the gospel of Christ in places it had never reached. One of the lessons we learn from this passage is that a servant of God must make plans to propel his or her ambitions forward. Paul traversed a greater part of the Roman Empire, evangelizing and planting churches. As an individual with just a few friends who shared the same cause, he could not be in all places at the same time. However, Paul maintained contact with the places he had visited and those he had yet to visit. He communicated to brothers in Rome before his visit, and while there he wrote fond letters to the churches he had helped establish in other parts as well.

God will always devise a way out through His loyal servants to ensure that the mission succeeds. In this passage, we can see Paul mobilizing brothers and sisters in “Macedonia and Achaia to make a certain contribution for the poor among the saints who are in Jerusalem” (Rom. 15:26, NKJV).

“Apparently, many of the people who had turned from Judaism to Christ had lost their jobs and been ostracized from their families. Paul reminded the Gentile believers that salvation came through Israel, and told them that they had a moral obligation to help these Jewish believers who were enduring hardship because of their faith in Christ.” <sup>1</sup>

**Paul’s Ministry in Rome** (Acts 28:16–31)

Luke finally reveals how Paul makes it to the capital, Rome, in what would be a climax of his mission ventures. The letter that heralded his visit reached the recipients in time, and they were now expectant with joy, waiting to receive the missionary. Ironically, Paul arrived in Rome as a prisoner.

Luke does not tell us much of what unfolded regarding Paul’s trial or the outcome of his judgment. However, one thing we know is that Paul remained in custody waiting for his trial. One soldier was assigned to guard him. In the meantime, Paul got an opportunity to continue with his mission. While under a kind of house arrest, people started coming to him, thirsty for God’s Word.

**Conquering a Demanding Audience** (Rom. 1:8)

While Paul had traveled a greater part of the Roman Empire, he had not set foot in Rome. At the time, Rome was a powerful capital commanding the Western world. Learning, power, law, and commerce all had their center in Rome. Paul had to polish his language and choose his words wisely to deliver the intended message.

Paul was a believer in Christ, and his main aim was to convince the people in Rome that Christ held the solutions to all problems and answers to all questions. In contrast to the letters he wrote to individuals, he was now addressing a vast region. In our mission efforts today, Paul teaches us that we need to be thorough; focused; and, above all, submissive to God’s power.

**React**

`In addition to God’s faithfulness, what other qualities of God enabled Paul to move forward amidst daunting odds?`

`What are some of the instances in Paul’s journey that helped him trust God more?`

`What are some of the means we can utilize today to take the gospel to places it has not reached?`

<sup>1. Keith Krell, “30. Mission Ambition (Romans 15:14–33),” Bible.org, accessed July 12, 2016, https://bible.org/seriespage/30-mission-ambition-romans-1514-33.</sup>

_Bob Collince, Rongo Town, Kenya_