---
title:  Paul’s “Servant” Attitude
date:   03/10/2017
---

**Evidence**: Rom. 15:24–33

Paul shows us the attitude of a servant. He gathered a bundle of sticks to light a fire (Acts 28:3). He did this in the presence of natives and other people who were more familiar with the area and could have done the job. A heart of service was always evident in Paul.

Even so, we see Paul withstanding every temptation that came his way. When a “viper came out because of the heat, and fastened on his hand” (verse 3, NKJV), he remained faithful to God—his Master. He remained calm, simply shaking off the creature into the fire. The crowd, thinking that something dangerous was going to happen, was amazed. They expected Paul to suffer a deadly bite from the viper, but that did not happen.

**God had a purpose for him.**

For Paul, it was just one of the many ways through which God works. God had a purpose for him. He preserved him from the shipwreck and kept the mouth of the viper harmless in the presence of His servant. The real lesson here is that God protects His servants. He does not let them perish before they accomplish His work. God ensured that Paul was safe in the face of all dangers. God made sure that nothing stopped Paul from taking the gospel of salvation to the people of Rome.

Of all the journeys Paul had, the journey to Rome was the longest and most perilous. It was full of drama and trials that simply prepared the missionary for the great task ahead. In the fires of testing, the character of God’s servant shone brighter.

“Nevertheless throughout the entire journey Paul was calm, courageous, and confident. He was ever and always a true leader. He started this trip as a prisoner, and yet ended up commanding everyone, including the captain, sailing master, and the Roman centurion. The characteristics of true spiritual leadership are all exemplified in the life of the apostle Paul.”<sup>1</sup>

**React**

`From the events that unfold during Paul’s voyage to Rome, it is evident that God is in control. What does this teach us about God’s sovereignty?`

`What are some of the trials we face today in our effort to spread the gospel of salvation?`

`Why do you think Paul had a burning desire to visit Rome?`

<sup>1. John MacArthur, Paul’s Perilous Journey: Acts 27–28, Gty.org, accessed July 12, 2016, http://www.gty.org/resources/study-guides/40-5184/pauls-perilous-journey.</sup>

_Elly Onyango, Rongo Town, Kenya_