---
title:  In the Footsteps of a Missionary
date:   04/10/2017
---

**How-to**: Acts 28:23

We can learn many things from Paul’s missionary strategy. To begin with, one thing we can say about Paul is that he was deeply committed to serving and knowing Christ. In all his activities, Christ was at the center of his thinking. As a tentmaker, preacher, and prisoner, Paul made Christ his focus. His willingness to share the message propelled him to learn more about Christ and reach more people for His cause.

Before his conversion, Paul did not know much about God’s true character. He knew Christianity in a negative way, which is why he had persecuted Christians (Acts 9:1). However, his conversion marked a turning point in his life. From that moment he received Christ into his life and was changed. He became grateful for the grace he had received from Christ and developed a desire to share the message of salvation with as many people as possible. The subsequent days of Paul’s life were full of preaching and sharing the message of Christ. Each of us has a story to tell about the gift of grace and salvation that we have received through Christ. Here are some lessons that we can learn from Paul’s mission strategy.

Communicate the message. Paul preached with authority, delivering the life-changing message of Jesus Christ. He communicated the message through his life. The Scriptures formed the basis of his reasoning, addressing issues that affected the everyday lives of his audience.

Be “all things to all men.” This does not mean that you violate any of God’s law in order to please people. Paul used the phrase in the context of accomplishing the gospel message, which has no boundary. He embraced both the Jews and Gentiles, giving each group the right dose of spiritual medicine.

Submit to Christ. Whatever we do for Christ is to His glory and not ours. Paul always prayed for success in accomplishing mission objectives. He yielded to Christ at all times. With that example, we can rise above all hindrances and accomplish our mission objectives today.

Make use of fellow workers. Paul made use of other believers. On his journeys, he made new friends and had companions all along the way (Acts 12:25). Preaching the gospel is a collective duty of all Christians.

**React**

`Name some of the qualities of Paul as a messenger of Christ.`

`In our communities, how can we be all-inclusive?`

_Layla Imani, Nairobi, Kenya_