---
title:  Making Friends and Enemies
date:   05/10/2017
---

**Opinion**: Acts 28:16

Paul longed to visit Rome and share the gospel of salvation. Unfortunately, through human eyes, he arrived in Rome as a prisoner under twenty-fourhour guard. In such conditions, many people would become nervous and idle and would leave their minds to the master of sin.

**Paul used his time in prison for a gracious cause.**

Though under house arrest for more than a couple of years, Paul used his time wisely. By the time he arrived in Rome, Christianity was already considered a “sect” (Acts 28:22, NKJV). Every part of Rome spoke against Christianity. However, in the eyes of God, the city was ripe for harvest. Believers, saints, and churches would soon spring up.

Paul used his time in prison for a gracious cause. First, he evangelized all who came to him (verses 30, 31). When we allow God to use us, He can make the best of us even in the worst situations. Paul made sure that those who came to him left with something new regarding Christianity and God. Second, Paul used the quiet environment away from any distractions to write most of the epistles in the New Testament. The letters to the Philippians, Ephesians, Colossians, and Philemon are products of Paul’s time in Rome.

Paul found himself in the middle of a city so demanding yet so thirsty for God’s Word. Consequently, he had to accomplish his goal. It is written, “So when they had appointed him a day, many came to him at his lodging, to whom he explained and solemnly testified of the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus from both the Law of Moses and the Prophets, from morning till evening” (Acts 28:23, NKJV).

Even though Paul arrived in Rome in chains, he did his part as a missionary. Today, we might not be in chains or behind bars. However, the challenges that Paul faced, the tribulations he went through, and the steps he took to accomplish his goals greatly continue to inform us about mission work, as individuals and as a church.

**React**

`What are some of the things we need to shake off in order to labor effectively for Christ?`

`How did God ensure that Paul was safe, even in cold prison cells?`

_Charity Achieng’, Homa Bay, Kenya_