---
title:  Dare to Share?
date:   06/10/2017
---

**Exploration**: Phil. 1:12–14

**Conclude**

Paul’s chains were a testimony to his faith in the Scriptures and God’s plan of salvation. “And because of my chains, most of the brothers and sisters have become confident in the Lord and dare all the more to proclaim the gospel without fear” (Phil. 1:14, NIV). Paul chose to see the affliction and pain he experienced as an advantage in building the kingdom of God. God turned Paul’s “misfortune” into fortune. And it “has actually served to advance the gospel” (verse 12, NIV). He was willing to follow his Creator and have faith in his Father’s plan—faith that God would never leave him or forsake him (Deut. 31:6). This act of faith has inspired people all over the world! His chains turned out to be his biggest assets! Today, our personal perseverance and faith in God’s love for us during our own struggles can serve as a witness to His love and His power to help us through our challenges. Do you dare to share what God is helping you overcome in your life? Do you dare to share God’s message of salvation? You have the opportunity to make a difference. Do you dare?

**Consider**

- Writing out your testimony and highlighting the pivotal moments in your spiritual walk that have meant the most to you.
- Keeping your written testimony handy and looking for opportunities to share your story one-on-one or with a group.
- Doing research online and at church for opportunities to spread the gospel through a mission trip or local outreach.
- Inviting a friend to hang out and asking them about their personal journey with God. This can give your friend the opportunity to share God’s message. It may even be exactly what you need to hear for spiritual encouragement!
- Drawing a picture as a prayer to God. Use colored pencils and make it vibrant. Show God what is on your heart and show Him your ideas about how you want to be a witness for His kingdom.
- Snapping a picture that captures what you do to share God’s message. This could be a picture of your favorite place to do outreach, biblical materials, or the guitar you use for music ministry. Get creative! Post your snapshot on Instagram or Facebook: #CQdaretoshare.

**Connect**

1. Mark 16:15–19; Psalm 96.
2. Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, chap. 42, “Development and Service”; The Ministry of Healing, p. 473; Christ’s Object Lessons, pp. 339–341.

_Cassi Fitzpatrick, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_