---
title:  The Wisdom and Knowledge of God
date:   01/03/2026
---

Job asked, “ ‘But where can anyone find wisdom? Where can we get understanding?’ ” (Job 28:12, ERV). Paul answers: in Jesus. Jesus has “everything that makes people wise. He helps people to know the true message that God had hidden” (Colossians 2:3, EASY; compare 1 Corinthians 1:30). If we have Jesus, we have everything. Jesus helps us to “know in a more perfect way about God’s plan” (Colossians 2:2, WE). God shows us His plan to save us in Jesus.

`Read Colossians 2:1–7. What is Paul’s reason for writing his letter to the Colossian church?`

The Greek word “paraklēthōsin” means to “be encouraged” (Colossians 2:2, NIrV) or “to become strong” (Colossians 2:2, EASY). Paul wants to help church members understand the dangers of false teachings. Paul also wants to help join together the church in Christian love. Paul believes that his letter will help do those things.

Paul praises the Colossian church members for “living and working well together” and for continuing “to trust Christ [the Savior] strongly” (Colossians 2:5, EASY). Paul is happy to see that the church has strong leadership. Often, people think that church leadership is about business only and not about worship. But Paul understands that church leadership and worship are connected. Paul believes there is a correct way to lead the church in worship (read 1 Corinthians 11). That’s why Paul was careful to tell Timothy and Titus how to choose church leaders (1 Timothy 3; Titus 1). Strong leaders help the church to grow. Strong leaders also respect God’s wisdom and Bible truth. These leaders share God’s wisdom and Bible truth with other people.

Paul’s fellow workers shared the correct teachings with the Colossian church. That’s why the Colossian church was strong in the faith. They supported their faith with Bible truth. When we follow Bible truth, we will be protected from false teachings.

`How did strong leadership in the past make your spiritual life grow strong? How did strong spiritual leadership change your worship experience for the better?`