---
title:  Growing in Jesus
date:   02/03/2026
---


Colossians is all about how to live the Christian life: “You received [accepted] Christ Jesus as Lord. So keep on living your lives in him” (Colossians 2:6, NIrV). When we accept the truth, we accept a real Person (Jesus), and not just a set of teachings. At the same time, when we accept Jesus, we also accept all His teachings (read Ephesians 2:20).

Also, when we accept Jesus, we die to self. We give our lives completely to the living Jesus.

Jesus is the Living Word. The Living Word cannot be sepa­rated from the Written Word (the Bible). For sure, we can know Jesus only from the Bible. The Bible teaches us how to live in Jesus. We allow Bible truth and the Holy Spirit to lead us in everything we do and in every choice we make.

In Colossians 2:7, Paul uses a symbol that compares Christians to plants. Paul says, “Let your heart be planted in” Jesus (WE). We become connected to Jesus when we accept Him as our Savior. We also follow His teachings. Then we “grow up in him” (Colossians 2:7, WE).

`Read Isaiah 61:3; Matthew 3:10; Luke 8:11–15; and 1 Corinthians 3:6. How do these verses help us better understand the plant symbol? What does this symbol show us about our faith as Christians?`

Paul talks about the two types of plants that Christians can choose to be. The first plant is the same as the Christians who are the same as “Good Trees” and “The Lord’s Wonderful Plant” (Isaiah 61:3, ERV). These Christians continue to grow in the Lord. They hold onto Jesus and His teachings. The second plant is artificial or fake. The plant looks real and alive. But it is really lifeless or dead. When we follow human teachings and man-made rules and ideas, we become the same as slaves (Colossians 2:8). Jesus made us free from sin. But we can become slaves again (Galatians 5:1; compare Acts 15:10).

When we accept false teachings, we reject Jesus. Why? Because false teachings separate us from the Good News about Jesus. When we accept false teachings, we are accepting human ideas over Bible truth (read Galatians 1:6–9). Christians in New Testament times were in danger of making this mistake. We are, too, if we’re not careful.