---
title:  Nailed to the Cross
date:   03/03/2026
---

`What Bible truth does Paul want the Colossians to understand? Read Colossians 2:11–15 for the answer.`

How often do we see people use Colossians 2:11–15 as a reason not to keep the 7th-day Sabbath?

Two explanations will help us understand these verses. First, things “were written against us in the laws” in the Old Testament (Colossians 2:14, WE). We can compare these things to the writing Pilate hung on Jesus’ cross (Matthew 27:37; John 19:19, 20). Second, Moses’ laws about offerings and being “clean” (read Deuteronomy 31:24–26) were nailed to the cross.

When we look at Colossians 2:14 and the other verses around it, we can see that Colossians 2:14 is talking about the law of offerings.

Paul also says Jesus “Christ himself has circumcised you, to show that you belong to God” (Colossians 2:11, EASY). To be circumcised means that the skin on the tip of the male sex parts is cut off. Paul uses being circumcised as a symbol to show that God “cut off your old nature [self] which made you do bad things” (Colossians 2:11, EASY). Paul connects this change of heart and mind with baptism. When we are baptized, our old self dies with Jesus. Then we come back to life as a new person (Colossians 2:11, 12). Paul explains: “At one time, you were dead in your spirits. . . . But now God has caused you to become alive with Christ. He has forgiven us for all the wrong things that we have done” (Colossians 2:13, EASY).

Look again at “the things that were written against us in the laws” (Colossians 2:14, WE). These words come from a word in the Greek language that means legal orders. These orders can come from the government or the church. The only other time that Paul uses this Greek word is to talk about the laws for offerings and other rules (Ephesians 2:14, 15). This law is the same as a wall of separation between the Jews and non-Jews. In Colossians 2, Paul wants us to understand that the non-­Jewish Christians don’t need to worry anymore about keeping Moses’ law about the animal offerings. Also, they don’t need to get circumcised or keep the laws about being “clean.”

So, we can see that Paul isn’t saying that God nailed the Ten Commandments to the cross. Elsewhere, Paul says we sin when we break the Ten Commandments (Romans 7:7).