---
title:  A Copy or the Real Thing?
date:   04/03/2026
---

`Read about the man-made rules in Colossians 2:16–19. What is the problem with these rules?`

Colossians 2:16–19 gives us a lot of information about a problem in the church. The problem was between the Jewish Christians and the non-Jewish members (Colossians 2:13). The members of the Colossian church were mostly non-Jewish. The Jewish Christians said that the non-­Jewish Christians needed to follow man-made rules. But Paul said these rules weren’t necessary.

Colossians 2:16 gives us a list of Jewish rules. Many Jews continued to follow these rules after they joined the church. Some of these Jews worshiped angels or were filled with pride. During His work on earth, Jesus warned the Jewish religious leaders about the pride in their hearts (read Matthew 6:1, 5, 7, 16). So, the problems that Paul saw in the Colossian church were nothing new. Paul saw the same problems in churches elsewhere.

Because so many Christians today misunderstand Colossians 2:16, let’s look at it carefully.

The word “so” (Colossians 2:16, ERV) tells us that Paul is finishing his thought from the verses we just read. Paul said that Christians didn’t need to get circumcised. You will remember that being circumcised meant that the skin on the tip of the male sex parts is cut off. Jews were circumcised to show that they belonged to God. Paul says that being circumcised wasn’t important. A new heart was the thing that mattered (Colossians 2:11–15).

Paul also talks about food and drink in Colossians 2:16. These things are talking about the meal and drink offerings. The Israelites brought them to the temple.

In Colossians 2:16, Paul talks about special holidays. These holidays help us remember Hosea 2:11. Hosea 2:11 also talks about special feasts, religious holidays, and sabbaths (also read Leviticus 23:11, 24, 32).

Paul tells us that all these rules and special days are “like [the same as] a shadow that showed what was coming” (Colossians 2:17, ERV). These special days showed us the future work of Jesus (read 1 Corinthians 5:7 and 1 Corinthians 15:23). God started the Sabbath in Eden before sin happened or the first offerings for sin were made. So, the Sabbath commandment didn’t come to an end after Jesus died on the cross.