---
title:  Limits and Rules
date:   05/03/2026
---

`What advice and warnings did Paul give the church? Read Colossians 2:20–23 for the answer.`

Paul says that we don’t need to follow the laws for animal offerings anymore. These things showed us the work that Jesus came to do. After Jesus died on the cross, these laws were no longer needed.

So, Christians (including Jewish Christians) no longer needed to follow these rules. God gave His people a visible sign that these laws were no longer needed. The sign was a hand from heaven that tore the temple curtain. This curtain separated the Most Holy Room from the Holy Room. What if we continued to follow these rules for animal of­ferings after they were no longer needed? Then we would show that we cared only about this life, and were not members of God’s kingdom.

We hope for a new “sky and a new earth. That is what we are waiting for. That will be a home for everything that is good and right” (2 Peter 3:13, EASY). At that time, God promises to make everything new.

The Jewish religious leaders added extra man-made rules to Moses’ laws (read Mark 7:1–13). All these rules became a problem. They didn’t help Christians’ faith grow strong. They became the same as a heavy load. Some Christians like to do things that make them feel better than other people. That’s bad enough. Worse, these same people may think they can somehow earn everlasting life with all the special things they do and the rules they follow.

In the past, many Bible thinkers made the mistake of trying to do the work of the Holy Spirit. They replaced the Holy Spirit in other people’s lives. These Bible thinkers tried to tell people what the Bible taught. But that is God’s job. Jesus is the truth. He showed Paul and other Bible writers what to say.

`Jesus works “for us” and “in us.” What work did Jesus do for us at the cross? What work does Jesus do in us now? Why does the work that He does in us now depend on the work He did for us at the cross?`