---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   06/03/2026
---

“In New Testament times, men tried to destroy faith in the Bible. How did they do that? With man-made rules and human ideas. Today, Satan tries to do the same thing. He tries to get people to accept false ideas. That’s why for many people the Bible is the same as a lamp without any oil. These people accept false teachings that confuse them. Then they misunderstand Bible truth. False ideas destroy faith in the Bible. These false ideas cause people to stop believing that the Bible is God’s message to us. When people accept these false ideas, the Bible can’t control human lives or make them better. When people believe the dead can communicate with us, they replace God’s law with self. They believe they can do whatever they want. They can sin. They believe that sin is freedom. They believe that they no longer need to answer to God.

“Christians will meet people who teach these things. The apostle Paul warned the Colossian church against these false teachers. People will say that the Bible teaches that we can communicate with the dead. But we must not accept these teachings. Christians must take a strong stand for Bible truth. We must keep our eyes on Jesus. We must reject all ideas that don’t agree with His teaching. We must think about Bible truth. We must believe that the Bible is the voice or words of God. When we read the Bible, God is talking to us. Then we will know and learn the wisdom which comes from God.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 474, 475, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Paul says, “All of God lives fully in Christ [Jesus] (even when Christ was on earth). . . . He [Jesus] is ruler over all rulers [angels and demons] and powers” in heaven and on earth (Colossians 2:9, 10, ICB). What do these things mean? Also read John 1:1; Hebrews 1:3; and 1 Peter 3:22 for the answer.`

`Many Christians use Colossians 2:14–16 to show that we no longer need to keep the 7th day Sabbath. What problems come with using these verses to say that?`

`In the quote above, Ellen G. White wrote that we must believe “when we read the Bible, God is talking to us.” Why must we protect ourselves against anyone or anything that would cause us to lose our faith in the Bible?`