---
title:  Whatever It Takes
date:  23/10/2019
---

#### inVite

God’s dramatic intervention to save Nebuchadnezzar for eternity reveals the heart of God and His desire to save to the uttermost. It took seven years as a beast for Nebuchadnezzar to come to his senses. In terms of salvation, one of the most radical prayers that one can pray is: “Lord, whatever it takes, save me.” This is a radical prayer that gives God permission to intervene in our life.

Our sense of dependence upon God is the most helpless yet invincible place that we can be as a Christian. Sometimes, the worst thing that ever happened to us is the best thing that ever happened to us.

On July 30, 1967, Joni Eareckson Tada dived into a shallow spot of the Chesapeake Bay, breaking her neck between the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae. She became a quadriplegic, being paralyzed from the shoulders down. Her entire adult life she has been confined to a wheelchair. In her book she states, “In a way I wish I could take to heaven my old, tattered Everest and Jennings wheelchair. I would point to the empty seat and say, ‘Lord, for decades I was paralyzed in this chair.’ . . . At that point, with my strong and glorified body, I might sit in it, rub the armrests with my hands, look up at Jesus, and add, ‘The weaker I felt in this chair, the harder I leaned on You’ ” (Joni Eareckson Tada, Heaven: Your Real Home, 184).

Salvation from an eternal perspective gives our present trials a different perspective, especially if those hardships lead us to a greater dependence on God.

``