---
title:  Lower Than the Lowest
date:  12/09/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Philippians 2:5–11

Lower
Than the Lowest

Imagine the best automobile you can think of. See all the options and features possible. Think of the best tires and a state-of-the-art engine. Choose any design and any color. Keep thinking of the most hi-tech engineering, most adaptive capabilities, and the sleekest of aerodynamic structures. Undoubtedly, each of us would be thinking of different cars. But regardless of what form and model we may be visualizing, everyone almost certainly envisioned a fast car!

Now imagine this car driving through a very dull and boring part of the world on a straight highway. Additionally, as you are driving through this desert of a place, you see that the speed limit is 25 miles or 40 kilometers per hour. Not a single police officer is in sight, and you have hours more to drive. Wouldn’t it be a great temptation to harness the speed intended by this car’s designers to break the law?

Next, imagine a more modest car (more likely the type of car most InVerse readers will be driving). This car is much more practical, economical, and perhaps not the latest model. It may not be run down, but it is functional and comes nowhere near to the capacity of the first car.

If this second car were placed in the same scenario as the first, what would be different? Though the boredom and straightness of the road may entice you with the same temptation to break the speed limit, the magnitude of self-denial would be remarkably different. Tempted the same but in a different way.

Though many Christians may be familiar with the concept of humility and the imperative of being humble because Christ was humble, this week the lesson looks at Philippians 2 and the role that humility and self-denial play in discipleship. We will discover that to say Jesus was humble is an understatement.

#### inScribe

Write out Philippians 2:5–11 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``