---
title:  The Blue Book
date:   01/04/2017
---

### The Blue Book

1 Pet. 1:3, 4, 13

The fear was palpable. I had been a bona fide doctor for a few months, but this was my first night on call. I was admitting people—sick, complicated patients—and I was terrified that I would miss something. I had so much knowledge but so little experience. I had all of the necessary tools: a starchy white coat with my name on it, a cold metal stethoscope, and even a name badge. But I felt like such a poser.

**I memorized it, I owned it, I knew it.**

I combed dutifully through each patient’s chart, and I consulted my “blue book” for each medical problem. The “blue book” was a textbook every intern owned that guided and prompted them so that nothing would be missed. As my intern year progressed, I needed my book less and less—not because I didn’t need the information, but because it had become a part of me. I memorized it, I owned it, I knew it.

Peter knew the Master better than almost anyone. He knew that being a newbie, an intern, a fledgling Christian, is hard. Peter had the benefit of personally knowing Christ, and yet even he faltered.

Peter kept his frail human nature—and desperate need for redemption— in plain sight when he wrote, “Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ! In his great mercy he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil or fade” (1 Pet. 1:3, 4, NIV).

Acknowledging his (and our) fragility, Peter urged his readers to remember that without grace, they’re as sunk as he would have been the night Jesus invited him to levitate on liquid. “Therefore,” he wrote, “with minds that are alert and fully sober, set your hope on the grace to be brought to you when Jesus Christ is revealed at his coming” (verse 13, NIV).

Drawing on his wealth of knowledge and experience, Peter wrote 1 Peter so that we would have an instruction manual, a “blue book” to refer to in our time of need—in those times we need grace, forgiveness, and redirection to Christ. We all should comb through our personal Bible “blue book,” make frequent use of it, and hope one day it will become a part of us.

_Lisa Hermann, Nashville, Tennessee, U.S.A._