---
title:  An Apostle’s Letters to Future Humanity
date:   02/04/2017
---

### An Apostle’s Letters to Future Humanity

1 Pet. 1:13

First and Second Peter were specifically written for fledgling Christian churches centuries in the past. The letters address many issues that weighed on Christian believers at that time. While some references need further explanation in today’s society (e.g., counsel on the master-slave relationship, which could relate to a modern working environment), other parts of the letters are extremely and easily pertinent to our age. The author is very clear on being wary of corruption and false teachers, how to be an honorable spouse, and caring for one’s household.

**Peter calls us to overcome those things that weigh us down from the past.**

To understand the letters’ background, we must also take another look at the author. First Peter was authored in Greek. The estimated time period is approximately a.d. 60, which would put the letters in the same time frame as the Roman emperor Nero and his persecution of the Christians. <sup>1.</sup> Tradition suggests that Mark served Peter in Rome and may have assisted Peter in transcribing his words while he was imprisoned.

Though the letters do not entirely focus on early Christian persecution, it is a subject often in the background, befitting a time of increased religious “hostility.” <sup>2</sup>

In 1 Peter 1:13, Peter admonishes his readers to “gird up the loins of your mind” (NKJV). The vivid word picture reflects the long robes then worn as everyday apparel, which they had to tuck into their belts whenever they engaged in energetic action, lest they trip over themselves. Peter’s words are sharp counsel to believers who may fear that their faith puts them outside of mainstream, “acceptable” practices. First Peter calls us to overcome those things that weigh us down from the past.

**REACT**

`The author of 1 and 2 Peter did not have the Internet, social media, or the interconnectivity that we do today. What aspects from his letters would apply directly to our interconnected world?`

<sup>1.</sup> Leander E. Keck et al., The New Interpreter’s Bible, vol. 12 (Nashville, Tenn.: Abingdon Press, 1998), p. 80.

<sup>2.</sup> Robert A. Spivey, D. Moody Smith, and C. Clifton Black, Anatomy of the New Testament, 7th ed. (Minneapolis, Minn.: Fortress Press, 2013), p. 409.

_Johanna Bjork, Bismarck, North Dakota, U.S.A._