---
title:  The Chosen Exiles
date:   03/04/2017
---

### The Chosen Exiles

1 Peter 1

**Parepidemoi (John 3:16; Rom. 8:28–30; Eph. 1:4; 1 Pet. 1:1–3)**

Parepidemoi. It sounds like a creature that swims in some dark realm of the ocean; and in an emotional sense, that’s rather appropriate. The Greek word in 1 Peter 1:1 and 2:11, translated as “sojourners,” “strangers,” or “exiles,” literally means people away from their homes; and for the early Christians, many of whom had been forced to uproot on account of their faith, the word struck close to home.

As one of the original disciples who was formerly prepared to fight for an earthly kingdom, Peter’s use of this term is striking. The Bible depicts Peter’s spiritual and emotional growth like few other characters, and his use of parepidemoi underlines his embrace of the transitory nature of the Christian life. We are, Peter proclaims, mere passersby in this Earth-to-bemade- new. Our true home awaits us in a world yet unseen.

**Salvation is an invitation open to everyone.**

In the two books that bear his name, the man who once scornfully denied knowing Jesus does not play up his connection with the now-revered figure. Peter simply calls himself an “apostle” (1 Pet. 1:1) and notes that he is “a witness of the sufferings of Christ” (1 Pet. 5:1, NKJV). In the Christian community, he simply describes himself as a “fellow elder” (verse 1, NKJV).

When Peter describes himself as one who “also [will be] a partaker of the glory that will be revealed” (verse 1, NKJV), it is impossible to separate his hopeful, even triumphant, rhetoric from the circumstances in which they were written. Though a precise date of composition is not apparent, it is clear that Peter writes late in life, and Peter had long known the tide would turn against him (John 21:18, 19). If Peter means Rome when he refers to “Babylon” in 1 Peter 5:13, then he is almost certainly writing from the Roman capital, where, according to tradition, he was martyred.

The “exiles” Peter addresses are far from castoffs. Rather, in a startling dichotomy, they are chosen by God (1 Pet. 1:2). Having responded to God’s open call, they are empowered to live holy lives through the Spirit and now bear witness to God’s grace and Christ’s sacrifice. Peter’s packed words both affirm the Godhead and highlight the role each Member—Father, Son, and Holy Spirit—plays in our lives.

Peter’s use of the Greek term eklektoi—“elect” (NIV)—begs theological clarification, especially when coupled with the Greek word prognosis, translated as “foreknowledge.” Such references have been used to establish the doctrinal concept of predestination, which posits that God has pre-selected some people to be saved and the rest to be lost. Peter sheds light on this question of human free will in 2 Peter 3:9, where he writes, “The Lord is not slow in keeping his promise, as some understand slowness.

Instead he is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance” (NIV).

Salvation is an invitation open to everyone. In Romans 8:28–30, Paul discusses how God works in the lives of those who love Him, “who have been called according to his purpose” (verse 28, NIV). Paul continues, “For those God foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters. And those he predestined, he also called; those he called, he also justified; those he justified, he also glorified” (verses 29, 30, NIV).

**An Incorruptible Inheritance (1 Pet. 1:3–9)**

Peter points his readers to the “inheritance incorruptible” (1 Pet. 1:4, NKJV). The unspoiled eternity ahead is contrasted with the fleeting trials of life. Indeed, Peter compares the faith Christians develop in everyday life to gold refined by fire. Gold may melt in the flames, but our faith is purified and fulfilled.

**“For I Am Holy” (1 Pet. 1:13–21)**

Peter instructs his readers to “gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and rest your hope fully upon . . . grace” (verse 13, NKJV). It’s a call to action and to confidence. We are called to be alert, clear-minded, and focused, yet with confidence in the grace offered by a Savior who has done all the work for us.

Peter quotes God’s words in Leviticus 11:44, “ ‘Be holy, for I am holy’ ” (1 Pet. 1:16, NKJV). Leviticus frames the command in terms of clean and unclean food (Leviticus 11; Acts 10:9–16). Peter knew that portion of the Mosaic Law all too well, as shown by a startling vision he had received of God offering him common and unclean animals to eat, which had led to his full acceptance of Gentiles as fellow believers in Christ.

How, then, as Christians, is our holiness fulfilled? We must “love one another deeply, from the heart” (1 Pet. 1:22, NIV). If we do not have “sincere love for each other” (verse 22, NIV), it’s a clear sign that the truth is not in us.

**REACT**

`1. How do we live in light of the tension between our earthly life and our eternal home?`

`2. What difference does it make today to know that we look forward to a future that will never be corrupted?`

`3. What does it mean to focus on holiness when all our efforts will fall far short of Christ’s? Is there a wholistic sense we should include?`

_Tompaul Wheeler, Nashville, Tennessee, U.S.A._