---
title:  Within Reach
date:   04/04/2017
---

### Within Reach

1 Pet. 1:8, 9

My friend Rowena recently discovered that her adopted cat, Nicky, like many of his feline kin, particularly enjoys playing with a cat teaser—a toy wand from which dangles some tantalizing object. Rowena waves it, and Nicky leaps and pounces, trying to catch the fake mouse before she jerks it away. Robert Browning’s poem “ Andrea del Sarto” contains the line, “ Ah, but a man’s reach should exceed his grasp, / Or what’s a heaven for?”<sup>1</sup> That seems accurate if you apply it to Nicky. But how is a Christian to wrap his or her mind around the idea of salvation?

**“Holiness is not rapture: it is an entire surrender of the will to God.”**

“Many who are sincerely seeking for holiness of heart and purity of life seem perplexed and discouraged. They are constantly looking to themselves, and lamenting their lack of faith; and because they have no faith, they feel that they cannot claim the blessing of God. These persons mistake feeling for faith. They look above the simplicity of true faith, and thus bring great darkness upon their souls. They should turn the mind from self, to dwell upon the mercy and goodness of God and to recount His promises, and then simply believe that He will fulfill His word.”<sup>2</sup>

“No effort should be made to rein the mind up to a certain intensity of emotion. We may not feel today the peace and joy which we felt yesterday; but we should by faith grasp the hand of Christ, and trust Him as fully in the darkness as in the light.”<sup>3</sup>

“Holiness is not rapture: it is an entire surrender of the will to God; it is living by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God; it is doing the will of our heavenly Father; it is trusting God in trial, in darkness as well as in the light; it is walking by faith and not by sight; it is relying on God with unquestioning confidence, and resting in His love.”<sup>4</sup>

**REACT**

`1. Satan is a very keen observer and targets our weak spots. Where are you most vulnerable?`

`2. If faith isn’t a feeling, what is it?`

<sup>1</sup> Robert Browning, “ Andrea del Sarto,” Poetry Foundation, accessed March 24, 2016, http:// www.poetryfoundation.org/poem/173001.

<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, The Sanctified Life, p. 89.

<sup>3</sup> Ibid., p. 90.

<sup>4</sup> Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 51.

_Christina Rasmussen, Laurel, Maryland, U.S.A._