---
title:  Encouragement and Instruction for Holy Living
date:   05/04/2017
---

### Encouragement and Instruction for Holy Living

John 3:7; 1 Tim. 2:4; 1 Pet. 3:21, 22; 4:3; 2 Pet. 3:9

Trials often stretch us to the limit, tempting us to give up. But how can we have hope? Peter tells us to “rest your hope fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ” (1 Pet. 1:13, NKJV).

We don’t have to wait for the grace of Jesus. We can have it now. How then are we to live? Shall we just trust in Jesus and everything will be OK? Can we just go about our lives and not be concerned about much else?

**We don’t have to wait for the grace of Jesus.**

Peter tells us that we must “exercise self-control,” guarding against our selfish will to “satisfy [our] own desires” (verses 13, 14, NLT). Peter also states that God “will judge or reward [us] according to what [we] do” (verse 17, NLT). So clearly, the Lord does have expectations for how we conduct our lives. But what are they?

Peter tells us to “love each other deeply with all your heart” (verse 22, NLT). For many, this can seem quite open-ended and vague. You’ve likely heard this so many times before that it may have lost some of its meaning. Read on to chapter 2. Peter lists “deceit, hypocrisy, jealousy and all unkind speech” (1 Pet. 2:1, NLT) as specific traits to cleanse from our lives.

You may be thinking that you already do so much of that, that this type of thing isn’t your problem. I think Peter knows more about human behavior than we may give him credit for. In 1 Peter 2:12, he tells us to “be careful to live properly among your unbelieving neighbors” (NLT). Why would he say this if living a godly life were easy? It’s not. The world will try to take you down with it. But we are called to consider ourselves “ ‘temporary residents’ ” in this world (verse 11, NLT). Peter is giving encouragement and thoughtful instruction on how to live so as not to fall victim when trials come our way.

**REACT**

`1. What tangible act can you take today towards living a more holy life?`

`2. What three other traits could you add to Peter’s list in 1 Peter 2:1?`

`Share this list with a friend and compare what you wrote down. Does anything your friend wrote down apply to your life in any way?`

_Brent J. Bergherm, Walla Walla, Washington, U.S.A._