---
title:  How Bitterness Turns to Love
date:   06/04/2017
---

### How Bitterness Turns to Love

1 Pet. 1:1–25

Displaced. Resentful. Bitter. These feelings could be running through the pilgrims of the dispersion as they are forced to leave their homes. “I’m doing everything right; where have I gone wrong?”

Despite their forced dispersion, they choose to rejoice. They look forward to their inheritance in heaven. The difficulties they are enduring are but for a little while, testing the genuineness of their faith. Peter reminds them that their faith is far more precious than gold. However, there is something else upon which they still need further instruction.

**We can love only because of the example we have been given.**

“Be holy in all your conduct” (1 Pet. 1:15, NKJV). Peter is saying, “You may have the faith of a Christian, but are you acting like one?” Could it be that as Christians we have learned to give powerful, inspiring speeches, emphasizing all the right things, but we haven’t learned the first step in practical Christianity? Peter points out that we’ve all come a long way from our sin-soaked pasts.

Do not get in the habit of “conforming yourselves to the former lusts, as in your ignorance” (verse 14, NKJV). At one point, we all lacked knowledge. Just because we were ignorant once doesn’t mean we must stay that way. Peter gives a fresh example as well. No longer should we look to the “aimless conduct received by the tradition from [our] fathers” (verse 18, NKJV). Instead, we must remember what redeemed us: “the precious blood of Christ” (verse 19, NKJV).

As humans, we copy the example we know. It is easy to look to customs and beliefs that have been passed down from generation to generation. It’s almost habit to continue what has always been done, but is that right?

Peter gets into more specifics of self-conduct as he says to “love one another fervently with a pure heart” (verse 22, NKJV). It’s so easy to focus on what we should do, but have we forgotten how it needs to be done? Paul prefaces that counsel with the explanation “since you have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit in sincere love of the brethren” (verse 22, NKJV). The key to remember is we can love only because of the example we have been given.

**REACT**

`1. Of all the advice Peter could give the people at this time, why does he address conduct?`

`2. In 1 Peter 1:22, it says to “love one another fervently with a pure heart” (NKJV). Who could the “one another” be referring to?`

_Yaniz Seeley, Ooltewah, Tennessee, U.S.A._