---
title:  Love-Based Living
date:   07/04/2017
---

### Love-Based Living

1 Pet. 1:22

**CONCLUDE**

Peter’s words in 1 and 2 Peter show that he is concerned with helping the fledgling body of Christ to understand how to live a holy life. His writings are full of helpful instruction on everything from slave relationships to false teachers. But the heart of Peter’s message is a call to holy living based on the grace that God extended to us through the death of His Son. Holy living doesn’t mean the focus is on us. It’s a call to love one another deeply and to guard our hearts from things that would cause us to focus on ourselves instead of on others.

**CONSIDER**

- Writing a list of things to be thankful for, and posting it in a prominent place, such as on your bathroom mirror.
- Painting something that illustrates what a pure heart looks like. What is the color of unselfishness? What shape does it take? Share your painting with a friend, and explain what it means to you.
- Keeping a prayer journal of requests for others. Post a list on your refrigerator, or buy a small whiteboard where you can write the names and situations of people who need your prayers.
- Guarding your mind by memorizing or writing scripture daily. Pick a section of scripture that you like, such as Colossians 3:1–17 or Psalm 46. Make a schedule of memorizing two verses a week until you finish it.
- Planning at least one service act of love each day. Review your prayer journal (see above), and decide on one thing you can do besides pray to be supportive of a particular individual on the list. Possibilities include a phone call, card, food gift, or just a gift of your time.
- Dedicating your day to the Holy Spirit’s agenda, looking for every opportunity He presents to live a life of love and service.

**CONNECT**

1. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, chap. 7, “Like Unto Leaven.”
2. Max Lucado, It’s Not About Me (Thomas Nelson, 2004).
3. Paul D. Parkinson, Unselfish: Love Thy Neighbor as Thy Selfi e (Believers Press, 2015).

Kris Coffin Stevenson, Reno, Nevada, U.S.A.