---
title:  "God’s Wrath: The Pain of Searing Loss"
date:  10/03/2019
---

**Logos**: Revelation 15; 16

The word wrath appears 256 times in the King James Version of the Bible. Webster’s dictionary defines it as “1: strong vengeful anger or indignation; 2: retributory punishment for an offense or a crime: divine chastisement.” 1 Today we will focus on the second definition and how the seven last plagues revolve around the wrath of God being poured out as a response to Satan’s attacks.

**Giving Up the Holy Ghost**

Paul, in Romans 1, reminds us that God’s wrath is poured out on the ungodly and unrighteous (verse 18). Several times throughout the chapter he tells us what will happen to those individuals who continually say no to the Holy Spirit’s promptings. God gives them up (verse 26) to their own devices and cannot work with them. Because He is a gentleman and does not force His love upon anyone, His only choice is to depart from them. God’s wrath is synonymous with the unpardonable sin and the reality that He must eventually separate Himself from those who continue in their rebellion against Him who is the source of life.

**The Seven First Plagues**

The seven last plagues are foreshadowed in the Exodus experience. Pharaoh was given multiple opportunities through Moses and Aaron to surrender his heart, but instead, we are told that “Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he harkened not unto them, as the Lord has said” (Exod. 8:19). Pharaoh’s defiance stands in stark contrast to how God’s end-time church will react. They have believed the gospel. And they sing the song of Moses (Rev. 15:3) because like the Israelites who rejoiced with singing when they were brought out from the bondage of a cruel pharaoh, they have been delivered from the oppressive regime of the adversary of God.

**Paradise Lost Forever**

The seven last plagues describe what will happen to those who fully reject the gospel; the life, death, and resurrection of our Passover Lamb, Jesus Christ. Because they refuse the Light, they come under judgment (John 3:19). They will be “tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels” (Rev. 14:10), not because God is malicious or sadistic but because of God’s righteous presence in His people. In contrast to the darkness of sin, the light of Christ will be like a burning fire, convicting the lost of their transgressions. Yes, there will be physical manifestations of destruction, but it is all a result of a corrupt spiritual condition.

Each vial/bowl/cup of wrath that is poured out shows us how deep the condemnation is felt by the lost. Vials one through four tell us that to some the weight of unresolved sin becomes a “grievous and noisome sore” (Rev. 16:2). No matter what human means are tried, like the Egyptians, they cannot scrape away the sickness of their sin. To others Christ is discarded like a lifeless “dead man” who has no power. They forfeit ever being remade into the image of God, that is, “living souls.” Those who have violently rejected the gospel, shedding “the blood of saints and prophets” (verse 6), now despair at their impending doom. Even those who claimed loyalty to but misrepresent the name of Jesus will also suffer this fate. They have cursed and “blasphemed the name of God, . . . and they repented not to give him glory” (verse 9).

Can you see why God is angry? The Father, Son, and Spirit are not only infinitely saddened by those who will miss out on the new earth for all eternity. God is infuriated by a system that has killed His children. In the fifth and sixth plagues, He is ready to take action by pouring out His vials on the counterfeit trinity; the corrupt dragon, beast, and false prophet. As Cyrus the Great once sieged Babylon by diverting the Euphrates River away from the city, it will be clear that Jesus, the Living Water, and all the blessings that He once offered freely to the lost will now be out of reach. The enemy’s kingdom will dry up and fall. Everyone’s choices will be solidified, but Satan will use this one last opportunity to deepen the deception. Just as a frog catches prey with its tongue, Satan will continue speaking lies to trap the lost and rally them, one last time, against the kingdom of heaven.

**Blessed Is He That Watcheth**

Finally, in verse 15, Jesus assures us that it is the lost who will be caught off guard suddenly when He comes as a thief. We are given a sobering warning to keep our garments, not of cloth but of His righteousness, so that we may not suffer the same fate as those who are left in a naked, fallen state without Christ. Satan may try to exploit our human weakness and shame us into identifying with our past guilt, but we can know that Jesus has rescued us. May we take hold of the life-giving power of the everlasting gospel so that we will never have to suffer separation from God, the bitter cup that Christ has already endured on our behalf.

**React**

`1. What is the difference between human wrath and God’s wrath?`

`2. What other similarities can you see between the plagues of Egypt and the seven last plagues?`

`3. How do we avoid being among those who receive the seven last plagues?`

---

<sup>1. Merriam-Webster, s.v. “wrath,” https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/wrath.</sup>

_Andrew Carroll, Allentown, Pennsylvania, USA_