---
title:  God’s Acting Weird
date:  11/03/2019
---

**Testimony**: Ezek. 33:11

“To our merciful God the act of punishment is a strange act. ‘As I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked.’ Ezekiel 33:11. The Lord is ‘merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth, . . . forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin.’ Yet He will ‘by no means clear the guilty.’ ‘The Lord is slow to anger, and great in power, and will not at all acquit the wicked.’ Exodus 34:6, 7; Nahum 1:3. By terrible things in righteousness He will vindicate the authority of His downtrodden law. The severity of the retribution awaiting the transgressor may be judged by the Lord’s reluctance to execute justice. The nation with which He bears long, and which He will not smite until it has filled up the measure of its iniquity in God’s account, will finally drink the cup of wrath unmixed with mercy.”1

“The God of justice did not spare His Son. . . . The whole debt for the transgression of God’s law was demanded from our Mediator. A full atonement was required. How appropriate are the words of Isaiah, ‘It pleased the Lord to bruise him; he hath put him to grief.’ His soul was made ‘an offering for sin.’ ‘He was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities’ (Isaiah 53:10, 5).

“Jesus suffered the extreme penalty of the law for our transgression, and justice was fully satisfied. The law is not abrogated; it has not lost one jot of its force. Instead, it stands forth in holy dignity, Christ’s death on the cross testifying to its immutability. Its demands have been met, its authority maintained. . . . “Was the penalty remitted because He was the Son of God? Were the vials of wrath withheld from Him who was made sin for us? Without abatement the penalty fell upon our divine-human Substitute.

“Hear His cry, ‘My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?’ (Mark 15:34). He was treated as a sinner, that we might be treated as righteous, that God might be just, and yet the justifier of the sinner. . . . “Language is too feeble for us to attempt to portray the love of God. We believe it, we rejoice in it, but we cannot comprehend it.”2

**React**

`1. How do you see God’s love reflected in His judgments?`

`2. How are you preparing yourself to escape the judgment that is soon to come?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 627.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, In Heavenly Places, p. 15.</sup>

_Weslie Onsando, Manor, Texas, USA_