---
title:  Sealed Instead
date:  12/03/2019
---

**Evidence**: 

During ancient times, seals were used to indicate that a document was official and had the approval of a king or governing body. Each governing body had their own unique seal, and it was clear where the seal came from. It can be thought of as a type of signature. The United States still possesses and uses an official great seal (as does each individual state). “Currently the seal is affixed to instruments of ratification of treaties; proclamations of treaties; full powers; exequaturs; presidential warrants for the extradition of fugitives from the justice of the United States; and commissions of cabinet officers, ambassadors, foreign service officers, and all other civil officers appointed by the president whose commissions are not required by law to issue under another seal.”1 In other words, seals still hold their basic purpose: to authenticate.

In the book of Revelation we are presented with two different indicators of who you stand with at the end time: the seal of God and the mark of the beast. In biblical usage, the Greek word for “seal” used in Revelation 7:2 can mean a something by which anyting is authenticated.2 When something is authenticated, it is proved to be genuine or true. Once a letter or decree had been impressed with the seal of the king, it could not be undone or revoked (cf. Esther 8:8). So once God’s people in the end times are authenticated by His seal, they are approved by Him and will not be refused into His kingdom.

The second indicator is the mark of the beast. The Greek word, charagma, used in this text for “mark” is used the same way as the Hebrew word qa‛ăqa‛ in Leviticus 19:28, which tells us not to make any marks on ourselves. Throughout Scripture this word is consistently used in a negative way. To date, when something or someone has a mark, it has been singled out by a marksman or sharpshooter for death.

Though the outlook for those who will receive the mark is grim, God has given us an alternative choice, as He always does. He has even delayed the destruction of the earth until His people are sealed (Rev. 7:3) because He wants to give us every possible chance to choose life, instead of death.

**React**

`What are some things we mark ourselves with today that are not of God?`

---

<sup>1. “Great Seal of the United States,” Encyclopedia Britannica.com, accessed April 8, 2018, https://www.britannica.com/topic/Great-Seal-of-the-United-States.</sup>

<sup>2. “KJV: Lexicon :: Strong’s G4973 – sphragis,” Outline of Biblical Usage, Blue Letter Bible, accessed April 8, 2018, https://www.blueletterbible.org//lang/lexicon/lexicon.cfm?Strongs=G4973&t=KJV.</sup>

_Destinie Candis, Plant City, Florida, USA_