---
title:  Attention! Attention!
date:  13/03/2019
---

**How-to**: Rev. 16:1–16

God is expert at getting our attention. Whether He speaks, acts, or commands nature, there is no question that He is able to make Himself known to humankind. Despite this reality, the possibility of missing out on the message God has for us is still very great.

So great, in fact, that Revelation 16 describes a group of people experiencing the seven last plagues, yet still unwilling to acknowledge God! How is this possible? Some would even think it’s absurd! However, learning the lessons that God calls our attention to now will not only help us understand who He is but help us trust Him as He leads our future.

Learn to let go of control. From shifting the dial on the thermostat to manipulating natural processes for our benefit, humanity has become consumed with controlling every aspect of life. Psalm 37:5 reminds us to “commit [our] way unto the Lord; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.” Begin now asking God to help you make decisions in your life. Bounce your ideas and opinions off God in prayer. Is this what the Lord would have you do? Wait for His response, and trust His control.

Our response to uncontrollable circumstances reveals our character. Do we worry? Do we continuously doubt and question God’s role in leading our lives? James 1:2, 3 encourages us to appreciate the difficulties in our lives and receive them as an opportunity to confront the often hidden imperfections in our character. When you face your next obstacle, try praising God despite the difficulties you face. Mark the changes in your attitude. God not only will lead you through the obstacles but will teach you how to respond to them.

Make a regular practice of acknowledging God in your life. Through praise, repentance, prayer, service, and the study of God’s Word, we acknowledge God’s presence in our life. When we accept God’s presence individually, we are able to see more clearly how He operates in the world around us. Often, our lack of acknowledgement can cause more unwanted self-inflicted hardship. “Let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, . . . giving thanks to his name” (Heb. 13:15).

**React**

`1. What do the seven last plagues reveal about those who experience them?`

`2. When God calls for our attention, what are the different ways people respond to Him?`

---

_Michelle Odinma, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_