---
title:  Love Is a Plague
date:  14/03/2019
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 16:10, 11

Preachers tend to avoid the seven last plagues like, well . . . the plague. We avoid talking about the plagues because they can raise serious questions about the character of God. When the fifth angel darkens the kingdom of the beast, we are told that “people gnawed their tongues in agony and cursed the God of heaven because of their pains . . . , but they refused to repent” (Rev. 16:10, 11, NIV).

Part of our problem with the God of plagues is that we expect Him to contradict Himself. We want the loving, Gandhi-God of nonviolent love who might weep over a mosquito’s demise. But we also want the just God who rides in with the cavalry to destroy our oppressors. In other words, we want a bloodless cross. We want salvation without suffering; we want a hell without fire. We want justice without punishment.

Yet still, how can the Creator kill the fish (third plague) or superheat the sun (fourth plague)? How can He inflict sores on His own children? We should be careful about offering suspiciously easy answers to get God off the hook. There’s a reason Isaiah describes God’s judgment as “his strange work” and “his alien task” (Isa. 28:21, NIV). With all of this in mind, I believe we need to understand three things about the plagues:

God’s goal is not to inflict suffering. God is not a masochist (Ezek. 33:11). In Isaiah, God promises to send hail in order to “sweep away your refuge, the lie” (Isa. 28:17, NIV). In other words, God sometimes sends physical judgments in order to undermine the lies we have built our lives upon so that we can build our lives on a better foundation.

God’s goal is not to drive the wicked to repent. On the contrary, we are told twice in Revelation 16 that the people refused to repent. The final plagues then reveal to the universe that everyone who would have turned to God already has. His mercy would have no effect.

God’s goal is to liberate His people. Revelation’s plagues are modeled after Egypt’s plagues. In both cases, the goal of the plagues is to free God’s people from the suffocating grip of oppression. Pharaoh Satan will never “let [God’s] people go” (Exod. 9:1). The cross proved this. It is time for Satan and his followers to bear the consequences. Only a loving God will give justice.

**React**

`How would you answer a critic who says the plagues prove God is cruel?`

---

_Laura Lucio, Peoria, Illinois, USA_