---
title:  Preparing for the Seven Last Plagues
date:  15/03/2019
---

**Exploration**: Rev. 16:1

**Conclude**

In the time of Moses, God used plagues to help harden the heart of Pharaoh, allowing the children of Israel to be set free. These events symbolized what would happen in the last days. The angels were told by a great voice, “Pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth” (Rev. 16:1). Once the plagues are poured out, there may be a few who try to reason them away. However, it is only through Christ and His transforming power that we can be safe during these end-time events. Are you ready?

**Consider**

- Composing a list of each plague and the supporting texts and share how we can know what to do when that time comes.

- Creating a song using the seven plagues and sharing it with your Sabbath School class or your youth group.

- Studying the account of the plagues in Egypt and the seven last plagues and creating a poster to put up in your classroom.

- Writing a prayer to help you be ready for the end-time events covered in this lesson.

- Creating a game with the seven last plagues and the verses where they are found. You may want to use note cards and make seven cards with one plague each, then seven cards with the verse of each plague.

- Making a short video containing what you learned this week and how it has helped you be ready. You could also use social media to share what you have learned with your friends.

**Connect**

Exodus 40:34, 35; 1 Kings 8:10, 11; Revelation 7:1–3; 14:9, 10; 15:1–8.

Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 201; The Great Controversy, pp. 613, 614.

---

_Levi Collins, Lenhartsville, Pennsylvania, USA_