---
title:  Healing a Man Who Can’t Move
date:   14/07/2024
---

`Read the story about the paralyzed man in Mark 2:1–12. A paralyzed man is someone who cannot move his arms or legs. What did the paralyzed man want when his friends took him to Jesus? What did Jesus give him?`

The paralyzed man can’t walk. So, his four friends carried him to the house where Jesus stayed. The four friends tore open the roof. Then the friends lowered the paralyzed man down to Jesus. Mark 2:5 tells us that Jesus saw the faith of the four friends. How can we see faith? We see faith the same way we see love. People show us their love when they do nice things for us. In the same way, when we do something because we believe, then we show our faith. The four friends showed their faith to Jesus when they brought Him their sick friend.

The first thing that Jesus does for the paralyzed man is to forgive his sins. The man doesn’t say anything during the whole story. The Jewish spiritual leaders have plenty to say, but they do not say the words aloud. They are angry about Jesus’ announcement that He can forgive sins. Only God can forgive sins. Jesus knows the doubts and the evil thoughts that are in their hearts.

If Jesus can make the paralyzed man walk, then this mira­cle is proof that Jesus is God and can forgive sins.

`Read Micah 6:6–8. How do these verses explain what is happening between Jesus and the Jewish leaders?`

The Jewish leaders’ ideas about God were wrong. They refused to accept that God gave Jesus the strength to do the miracle. So, the leaders didn’t understand the things that the miracle taught them about Jesus. Jesus gave the leaders proof that He came from God. Jesus showed them that He knew the doubt that was in their hearts. Then Jesus healed the paralytic man in front of them to show them God sent Him to this earth as the Savior.

`The Jewish leaders cared more about their rules than they cared about God. Are we in danger of doing the same thing? What can we do to avoid this trap? As Christians, what is the most important thing that we should care about?`