---
title:  Jesus Invites Levi to Follow Him
date:   15/07/2024
---

`Who was Levi? Why do you think some of the Jewish spiritual leaders were upset that Jesus asked Levi to become His follower? Read Mark 2:13–22 for the answers.`

Tax collectors in Jesus’ day worked for the Roman govern­ment. The Jews from Judea didn’t like tax collectors very much. Tax collectors often were not fair. They took more money from the people than they needed to take. Many Jewish tax collectors got very rich off the citizens from their own country. One Jewish book says, “If tax collectors enter a house, everything in the house is dirty.”

So, we should not be surprised that the Jewish leaders aren’t happy with Jesus for asking Levi, a tax collector, to become one of His followers. The leaders also want to know why Jesus eats with tax collectors and sinners.

How did Jesus answer their question? Jesus says that people who are sick need a doctor, and not people who are healthy. Jesus is a spiritual doctor. He is the only One who can heal the sin-sick heart. So, a doctor should go to the people who are sick and who need his help, right?

Mark 2:18–22 starts a new story. In this story, the Jewish leaders ask Jesus about fasting. Fasting is a time when someone doesn’t eat any food for a short while. The Jewish leaders want to know why Jesus’ followers don’t fast while their own followers and John the Baptist’s followers fast. Jesus answers the question with a picture story. In this story, Jesus compares His being with His followers to a wedding feast. Jesus says that the guests don’t fast at a wedding. They eat! But Jesus says that a time will come when the bridegroom will be removed. (Jesus was talking about His death on the cross.) When that day comes, Jesus’ followers will have plenty of time to fast.

Jesus continues with two word pictures that compare His teaching to the teaching of the Jewish leaders: Jesus’ teaching was the same as a piece of new cloth or new grape juice. You don’t sew a new piece of cloth on an old coat or put new wine into old leather bags for holding wine. The old coat and the old leather bags are word pictures for the teachings of the Jewish leaders. The old coat and old leather bags show us that the behavior of the Jewish leaders became very bad. Religion can become evil if people are not careful.