---
title:  The Lord of the Sabbath
date:   16/07/2024
---

In Mark 2:23, 24, the Jewish leaders accuse Jesus’ followers of breaking the Sabbath. The Jews had many rules about work. The Jewish leaders made a list of 39 things that their people should not do on the Sabbath. One of those things included the very thing Jesus’ followers did.

`How does Jesus answer the Jewish leaders? Read Mark 2:23–28 for the answer.`

Jesus answers with the story about David. David went into God’s house and ate the holy bread that only the priests or spiritual leaders were allowed to eat. Jesus says that if God allowed David to eat the holy bread, then Jesus’ followers also can pick and eat the grain while they walked through the fields.

Jesus also says that God made the Sabbath as a blessing for humans. Jesus is the Lord of the Sabbath.

`Mark 3:1–6. How does this story show us Jesus’ teaching that God made the Sabbath as a blessing for humans?`

Again, Jesus gets into trouble with the Jewish leaders about the Sabbath. (Do you see that they never argue about which day is the Sabbath? No, the leaders fight with Jesus about how to keep it.) The Jewish leaders will accuse Jesus of Sabbath breaking if He dares to heal on the Sabbath. Jesus asks the leaders a question. The answer shows that doing good and saving lives are important. We can do good and save lives on the Sabbath. We don’t break the Sabbath when we do these things.

Then Jesus heals the paralyzed man. The Jewish leaders get very angry. They decide to kill Jesus. The same leaders who accused Jesus of breaking the Sabbath were guilty of breaking the Sabbath when they made a plan to kill Him.

`What do the stories we read about today teach you about keeping the Sabbath holy? How hard is it today for us to keep the Sabbath? What are some of the problems that get in the way of our keeping it holy?`