---
title:  'Sandwich Story: Part 1'
date:   17/07/2024
---

`Read Mark 3:20–35. What connection do you see between the two stories in these verses?`

Mark 3:20–35 is the first “Sandwich Story” in Mark. Remember, a Sandwich Story is a type of storytelling where a writer starts telling a story and then begins telling another one in the middle of the first story. The writer finishes telling the first story only after the second story is finished.

The first story is about Jesus’ family members who decide to remove Him because people say He is crazy (Mark 3:21). The second story is about the Jewish leaders from Jerusalem. (Today we look at the second story, which is found in Mark 3:22–30.)

In Mark 3:22, the Jewish leaders say that Satan lives inside Jesus. The leaders accuse Jesus of working with the devil to command demons to come out of people. Jesus answers this insult with a question. He asks the leaders, “ ‘How can Satan cast [throw] out Satan?’ ” (Mark 3:23 NKJV). Satan never works against himself. Can Satan have success if he causes division in his own kingdom? Of course not! Jesus also talks about tying up a strong man before stealing from his house. In this last example, Jesus is the same as the thief who enters Satan’s house. Jesus ties up Satan and saves his prisoners.

`Read Mark 3:28–30. What is the one sin that God can’t forgive? Why can’t God forgive this sin`?

The one sin that God can’t pardon is the sin against the Holy Spirit. This sin includes saying that the work of the Holy Spirit is really the work that the devil does. Look at Mark 3:30. Do you see the reason why Jesus says what He does in verses 28 and 29? Jesus says what He does because the Jewish leaders say that Jesus is filled with an evil spirit. Jesus really is filled with the Holy Spirit. If you say that the work of the Holy Spirit is from the devil, then you won’t pay attention to the Holy Spirit. No one who loves God wants to follow Satan or his advice.

`Do you sometimes feel worried that you did the sin that God can’t forgive? How does this feeling show that you did not do this sin? Why is your worry or fear proof that you didn’t do this awful sin?`