---
title:  'Sandwich Story: Part 2'
date:   18/07/2024
---

`What experience caused Jesus’ family to think He was crazy? Read Mark 3:20, 21 for the answer.`

Jesus’ family thought that He was crazy. Why? Because Jesus was so busy that He didn’t take time to rest and eat. So, Jesus’ family went out to control Him. This story stops, and the second story starts about the Jewish leaders who accuse Jesus of working with the devil (read yesterday’s study).

In a strange way, the first story and the second story are connected. Jesus’ own family believes the worst about Him, just as the Jewish leaders do. Jesus’ family says He is crazy. The Jewish leaders say that Jesus is working with the devil.

`What does Jesus’ family want? How does Jesus answer? Read Mark 3:31–35 to answer the questions.`

We may think this story is strange. If your mother or other family members came to see you, you should meet with them, right? So, what’s the problem? The problem is that Jesus’ family members didn’t understand God’s plan for His life. Jesus knew they didn’t understand. In these verses, Jesus gives us a new meaning for the word “family.” The ones who obey God are Jesus’ brother, sister, and mother. Jesus is the Son of God. The people who honor and obey God become God’s family.

The two stories show us a strange and important Bible truth. In the first story, Jesus says that a family that is divided can’t continue. When we first look at the two stories, we may think that in the second story Jesus’ own family is divided against itself! But Jesus helps us to understand what these verses are saying when He gives us a new meaning for the word “family.” Jesus’ real family are those people who follow God and obey Him (read Luke 12:53; Luke 14:26).

Many times in history, Christians did not agree with their relatives. Mark 3:31–35 helps us understand that Jesus had the same trouble with His own family. Jesus knows how it feels when your family misunderstands you. So, He can give comfort and pity to people who feel alone.