---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   19/07/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Levi-Matthew,” pages 272–280; and “The Sabbath,” pages 281–289, in _The Desire of Ages_.

“Jesus was asked the question, ‘Does the Law allow us to heal on the Sabbath day?’ [Matthew 12:10, NIrV]. Jesus answered, ‘What if one of your sheep falls into a pit on the Sabbath day? Won’t you take hold of it and lift it out? A person is worth more than sheep! So the Law allows us to do good on the Sabbath day’ [Matthew 12:11, 12, NIrV].

“The spies for the Jewish leaders didn’t dare answer Jesus in front of the crowd because they were afraid the people would agree with Jesus. The spies knew that Jesus said Bible truth. The Jewish leaders would let a man suffer because they didn’t want to break their rules about the Sabbath. But the Jewish leaders showed more care for an animal than they did for a man that God made. All false religions work this way. They come from man’s wish to lift himself above God. But these false religions cause man to become as low as animals. Every religion that fights against the control of God cheats people of the honor that God gave humans when He first made them. God will give back this glory to us in Jesus. Every false religion teaches its followers not to care about the needs of other people or their suffering. The Good News about Jesus teaches us that humans are worth a lot because Jesus bought us with His blood. The Good News about Jesus teaches us to care about the needs and the suffering of other people. The Lord says, ‘I will make men . . . of more worth than pure gold, even the gold of Ophir’ [Isaiah 13:12, NLV].”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, pages 286, 287, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How can you and your local church help people who are suffering?`

`The Jewish leaders hated Jesus so much. Their hatred ­“blinded” them to who Jesus really was. His miracles didn’t touch their hearts. So, they rejected Him. What can we do, as a people, to make sure that this same thing doesn’t happen to us?`

`How can your local church become “family” for people who lost their families because of their faith?`