---
title:  Something is Broken
date:   03/05/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: 1 Kings 18

**Something is Broken**

Have you ever met someone whose connection with God seemed incredibly strong? You felt God’s presence when they were around, and when they left, it felt like a minor spiritual power outage. I’m fortunate to have met several such people, but few have been quite like Sandy Robinson.

Elder Robinson was a literature evangelist who led groups of young adults in selling gospel books. When I met him, he was the marketing representative for Message Magazine, an Adventist outreach publication for African Americans, and America’s oldest black religious publication. I was a young intern, and Elder Robinson took a special interest in me. His stories mesmerized me. He had often found himself in the most improbable situations, and God had miraculously come through for him many times.

I’ll never forget the day he shared something truly life-changing with me. Elder Robinson had seven children, all of whom were highly successful and faithful to God in their personal lives. I remember asking, “Elder Robinson, how did you guys raise such an impressive family?”

He looked at me and paused, then softly began to explain, “Son, it’s not us; it’s God! God has done it all. We have an altar in our home.” I was totally caught off guard and asked him to explain. “We have a place in our home where my wife and I meet to pray for our family.” Elder Robinson attributed every blessing that his children enjoyed, all their academic gifts, his wonderful marriage, all his success in ministry, everything, to the time they spent with God at their family altar. As he continued talking, I remember thinking to myself, “Something is seriously wrong with my devotional life!” My altar was broken. In that moment, I knew what Elijah knew as he climbed the parched ground of Mount Carmel: change begins by rebuilding the altar.

This week, we will explore the moment God sent a prophet to rebuild Israel’s broken altar and restore their relationship with Him.

### inScribe

Write out 1 Kings 18:30–40 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 31–33. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `