---
title:  Meeting on the Mountain	
date:   04/05/2025
---

### inGest

When God called Elijah to pronounce a drought on the nation, He chose “a man of faith and prayer whose fearless ministry was destined to check the rapid spread of apostasy in Israel” (Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings [1917], 119). After three and a half years of no rain, the crops were failing, the surpluses were exhausted, and the people were starving (James 5:17). The atmosphere was charged on the fateful day Elijah summoned the nation to the top of Mount Carmel, its previously lush green slopes scorched by drought.

Even greater than the physical drought gripping the nation was the spiritual drought that had left God’s people spiritually dehydrated, though they seemed not to know it. The wicked King Ahab and Queen Jezebel ruled Israel at that time. Ahab committed great evil as he sought to appease his Sidonian bride (1 Kings 16:29–33). What started out as small acts of religious compromise became full-blown apostasy by 1 Kings 18. Ahab had gone so far as to build Jezebel a temple to Baal in the capital city, complete with 450 prophets, and an Asherah pole with another 400 prophets administering its pagan worship. Israel was in deep spiritual darkness.

When Elijah told Ahab to meet him on Mount Carmel (18:19), he wielded uncommon spiritual authority—authority that emanated from his own altar time with God. The scene on Mount Carmel was positively macabre. Blood ran down the bodies of the pagan priests who had cut themselves while crying out to Baal and Asherah to send fire from heaven. No fire came. When it came time for Elijah to prepare his bull, he did something quite significant: he selected twelve stones, one for each Israelite tribe, rebuilt the broken altar on Mount Carmel, and doused it with water (vv. 30–35).

Then, “at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice,” Elijah offered his bull to God in prayer (v. 36). Last week, we saw that God instituted the morning and evening sacrifices at the construction of the wilderness tabernacle (Exod. 29:38). When Solomon prepared to build the temple in Jerusalem, David again pointed to the morning and evening sacrifices as being critical to the nation’s spiritual life (1 Chron. 23:30). Through Elijah, God was not simply showing that He was the true God; He was bringing Israel back to their altar of daily worship! The silence that had fallen over Mount Carmel was shattered when fire came down from God at the time of the evening sacrifice, affirming once again the critical importance of daily worship. This was an unmistakable message to the nation of Israel.

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from 1 Kings 18:30–40. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What does this week’s Scripture tell you about how God prepares us for worship?`

`Why was Elijah so sure God would send fire from heaven at such a high-stakes moment?`