---
title:  How Did We Get Here?
date:   05/05/2025
---

### inTerpret

Israel did not fall so far into apostasy overnight. The broken altar on Carmel merely represented the current state of Israel’s crumbling relationship with God—one that had been deteriorating for centuries. Cracks appeared in Israel’s altar when they began modifying the way God instructed them to worship. These alterations eventually led them to forsake God altogether. In Exodus 32:8, Aaron did not necessarily prevent the worship of the true God; he simply added a calf. Moses was away on Mount Sinai, God was silent, and the people were restless, so Aaron got creative. Be careful what you add to your worship life when God seems out of sight!

King Jeroboam of Israel did not prohibit worship at the temple in Jerusalem. As Aaron had many years earlier, he just added two calves for the people to worship—one in Dan and the other in Beersheba (1 Kings 12:25–33). Jeroboam was a weak, narcissistic leader. He supposed that if people from the northern kingdom of Israel, where he ruled, traveled to worship at the Lord’s temple in the southern kingdom of Judah, they would become disloyal to him. However, these golden calves were one of the many things that led the people into deep apostasy (2 Kings 17:16). Convenient worship is not necessarily true worship and devotion to God.

The confrontation on Mount Carmel publicly exposed Israel’s severe moral decline. Ellen White wonderfully captures just how impactful the fire from God was:
The people on the mount prostrate themselves in awe before the unseen God. They dare not continue to look upon the Heaven-sent fire. They fear that they themselves will be consumed; and, convicted of their duty to acknowledge the God of Elijah as the God of their fathers, to whom they owe allegiance, they cry out together as with one voice, ‘The Lord, He is the God; the Lord, He is the God.’ With startling distinctness the cry resounds over the mountain and echoes in the plain below. At last Israel is aroused, undeceived, penitent. At last the people see how greatly they have dishonored God. The character of Baal worship, in contrast with the reasonable service required by the true God, stands fully revealed. The people recognize God’s justice and mercy in withholding the dew and the rain until they have been brought to confess His name. They are ready now to admit that the God of Elijah is above every idol. (Prophets and Kings [1917], 153)

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What broken altars in your life need repairing?`