---
title:  A Major Challenge
date:   07/05/2025
---

### inVite

We are currently facing one of the most significant challenges to the personal and collective worship altar the Christian Church has ever seen—and it’s probably in or near your hand right now. Studies show that most people spend an average of 2 hours and 27 minutes on social media every day.<sup>1</sup> Most of that time is spent on smartphones. Children between the ages of eight and twelve in the United States spend 4–6 hours a day watching or using screens, with similar numbers around the world. Teens spend an average of 9 hours a day in front of a screen.<sup>2</sup> Scientists are increasingly raising alarms about how screens affect our mental health and well-being.

Unhealthy uses of tech, especially smartphones and social media, are creating mental health struggles we are only just beginning to comprehend. High levels of tech use have been associated with a wide variety of challenging symptoms. Evidence suggests that out-of-control tech use can:

- Damage our ability to concentrate and focus
- Make us feel lonely
- Raise stress levels
- Increase depression and anxiety
- Lead to a negative body image
- Encourage unhealthy sleep patterns
- Create addiction
- Promote cyberbullying
- Increase fear of missing out
- Promote unrealistic expectations
- Cause memory deficits

One author notes that our lives are mediated by screens; they stand between the person who creates and the person who receives. As screen time increases, we lose the richness of face-to-face communication. “We were created by God with an innate desire for unmediated contact and communication with God.”<sup>3</sup> What happens when our minds are so changed that we struggle to worship God without technology? Could you go analog in your worship of God?

Long before scientists discovered that digital media can seriously affect our well-being, Ellen White wrote, “It is a law both of the intellectual and the spiritual nature, that by beholding, we become changed. The mind gradually adapts itself to the subjects upon which it is allowed to dwell. It becomes assimilated to that which it is accustomed to love and reverence.”<sup>4</sup> She also makes this startling statement: “Every organ of the body was made to be servant to the mind. The mind is the capital of the body. The mind controls the whole man. All our actions, good or bad, have their source in the mind. It is the mind that worships God and allies us to heavenly beings.”<sup>5</sup> The issue is where we focus our minds and what habits we form. Depending on what we choose to view, our phones can be tools for great good or great evil. If we allow the phone to become a channel for degrading or mindless content, we compromise our minds and our ability to worship. We must take care not to allow smart devices to become the new idol before which we bow.

### Journal

`Meditate on 1 Kings 18 again and look for Jesus.`

`When have you noticed yourself changing as a result of beholding something?`

`What kinds of idols do you think we’re challenged with today?`

`Prayer Response:`

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Katharina Buchholz, “Which Countries Spend the Most Time on Social Media?” World Economic Forum, April 29, 2022, www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/04/social-media-internet-connectivity/#:~:text=Global %20internet%20users%20spend%20an.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> “Screen Time and Children,” American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, May 2024, www.aacap.org/AACAP/Families_and_Youth/Facts_for_Families/FFF-Guide/Children-And-Watching-TV-054.aspx#:~:text=On%20average%2C%20children%20ages%208.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> Tim Challies, The Next Story: Faith, Friends, Family and the Digital World (Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan, 2015), 93.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>4</sup> Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press®, 1950), 555.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>5</sup> Ellen G. White, Mind, Character, and Personality, vol. 1 (Nashville, TN: Southern Publishing, 1977), 72.