---
title:  The Curse Causeless?
date:   29/10/2016
---

### The Curse Causeless?

#### Sabbath afternoon

### Read for This Week’s Study:

Ps. 119:65–72; Job 2:11–13; Job 4:1–21; Rom. 3:19, 20; 1 Cor. 3:19; Heb. 12:5; Matt. 7:1.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “ ‘ “Can a mortal be more righteous than God? Can a man be more pure than his Maker?” ’ ” (Job 4:17, NKJV).

Last week we stressed the importance of putting ourselves in the position of Job, at least to whatever degree possible. In one sense, it shouldn’t have been that hard, because we’ve all been there; that is, to some degree we’ve all found ourselves immersed in suffering that so often seems to make no sense and certainly doesn’t seem fair.

While in the rest of the lesson we should try to keep that perspective, we also need to find the perspective of the other people in the story, the men who come to mourn and grieve with Job.

And that shouldn’t be so hard either. Who among us hasn’t seen the suffering of others? Who hasn’t sought to console others in their pain and loss? Who doesn’t know what it is like to try to find the right words to speak to those whose grief cuts at our own hearts, as well?

In fact, so much of the book of Job really is taken up with the dia- logue between Job and these men, as they all try to make sense of what so often seems to make no sense: the endless parade of human suffering and tragedy in a world created by a loving, powerful, and caring God.

##### * Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, November 5.