---
title:  A Man and His Maker
date:   01/11/2016
---

### A Man and His Maker

Eliphaz wouldn’t exactly win any awards for tact and sympathy with his opening lines. Basically he was saying that it was easy for Job to be a light and comfort to others when things were going well. But now that evil had befallen him, he was “troubled.”Yet, shouldn’t he be? Eliphaz said that God is just, and so the evil that comes upon us is deserved.

```Read Job 4:12–21.What other argument does Eliphaz present to Job?```

There are many fascinating things one could look at here, including how these men understood the nature and character of the true God, even before the rise of the nation of Israel. This whole book shows us that, indeed, others besides the patriarchs and then eventually the Israelites knew something of the Lord. Here, in fact, we see Eliphaz seeking to defend the character of God.

What Eliphaz heard in “visions of the night” was in many ways very sound theology (see Ps. 103:14; Isa. 64:7; Rom. 3:19, 20). We as humans are clay, we are so temporary, and we can be crushed as easily as a moth. And, of course, what man or woman can be more righteous than God?

On the other hand, his words were trite and beside the point. The issue with Job wasn’t whether Job was better than God. That was not Job’s complaint. He mostly talked about just how miserable he was, how much he was suffering, not that he was somehow more righteous than God.

Eliphaz, however, seems to have read all this into what Job said. After all, if God is just, and evil comes only upon evil, then Job must have done something to deserve what he was going through. Therefore Job’s complaints were unfair. Eager to defend God, Eliphaz starts to lecture Job. Even more than just whatever collective wisdom he believed he had about God, Eliphaz had something else as well: a supernatural revelation of some kind to buttress his position. The only problem, however, is that the position he took misses the point.

```What can we learn from this account about how, even if we are right on a position, we might not be expressing it in the most helpful and redeeming way?```