---
title:  Peter’s Work for God
date:   04/08/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 9:32–43; Acts 10:9–16; Ephesians 2:11–19; Acts 11:1–26; Acts 12:1–18. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Peter began to speak: ‘I really understand now that to God every person is the same. God accepts anyone who worships him and does what is right. It is not important what country a person comes from’ ” (Acts 10:34, 35, ICB). 

PAUL LEAVES FOR TARSUS. Then Peter again becomes the most important person in Luke’s story in the book of Acts. Luke tells us that Peter travels everywhere in Judea to share with people the Good News about Jesus. Peter also travels to places near Judea too. Luke tells us two stories about Peter that happen during this time. The first story is about how Peter heals Aeneas and then wakes up a dead woman named Tabitha. Then Luke tells us about the story of Cornelius in chapter 10. Cornelius was not a Jew.

Should non-Jewish people be allowed to join the church? Many Jewish Christians argued about this question. But God poured His Holy Spirit on Cornelius and everyone in his house. That gift helped show the truth to Peter and the Jewish Christians in Jerusalem. They now believed that the gifts of the Good News were not only for the Jews. At the same time this story happened, the church in Antioch also was beginning to contact the non-Jews.

This week’s lesson also talks about the attacks against the church by King Herod. We will learn about the things the believers experienced during this time.