---
title:  Peter Goes To Lydda And Joppa
date:   05/08/2018
---

Peter visited the Christian churches that were on the coasts of Judea. Clearly, Peter wanted to make sure these churches had a correct understanding of Bible teachings (Acts 2:42). But God also used Peter to do miracles that were as powerful as the ones that Jesus Himself did.

`Read about how Peter healed Aeneas in Acts 9:32–35. Then read about the miracle Jesus did Luke 5:17–26. How are these two miracles the same?`

The miracle Peter did reminds us of the well-known story about the man Jesus healed in Capernaum (Luke 5:17–26). See the part about the bed? Both stories are nearly the same. Many people living in Lydda and the plains of Sharon saw Peter’s miracle. Then they believed in Jesus.

`Read the story in Acts 9:36–43 about how Peter woke up Tabitha from the dead. What was very special about Tabitha?`

The name “Tabitha” comes from an Aramaic word that means “gazelle.” The name for Tabitha in Greek is Dorcas. Many people who lived near Tabitha loved her very much. She did many kind and good things for the people in her neighborhood. The story about how Peter woke up Tabitha from the dead is almost the same as the story about how Jesus woke up Jairus’s daughter from the dead (Luke 8:41, 42, 49–56). Peter saw that miracle happen. So, Peter did what Jesus did. Peter asked everyone to leave the room (read Mark 5:40). Then Peter knelt down and prayed. He said to the dead woman: “ ‘Tabitha, get up!’ ” (Acts 9:40, NLV).

God’s followers did many miracles. But God’s power made the miracles happen (Acts 5:12). Maybe there is a reason why the miracles that Jesus’ followers did were almost the same as the ones Jesus did. Maybe God wanted to remind the church—and us—about what is really important. The most important thing to God is not who we are. What is important to God is that we give ourselves fully to Him (John 14:12). What happens when we fully give ourselves to God? Then God can use us to do great things. 

`Miracles can make faith strong. But what is the real reason we should believe in God?`