---
title:  Peter Visits Cornelius
date:   06/08/2018
---

In Joppa, Peter stayed with a man named Simon. Simon worked as a tanner. A tanner was someone who made leather from animal skins. About 25 miles away from Joppa in Caesarea, there lived a Roman soldier named Cornelius. Cornelius and everyone in his house were loyal to God. But they did not become Jews. Then God gave Cornelius a vision. In it, God told Cornelius to send messengers to Peter. So, Cornelius invited Peter to visit him (Acts 10:1–8).

`What does Peter experience in Acts 10:9–16, 28, 34, 35? What does Peter learn from this experience?`

It is important to know that Peter’s vision is not about food. Instead, his vision is about people. The vision happens at noon. Peter is hungry. The voice in the vision tells him to kill and eat. But God does not use the vision to get rid of the food laws about eating clean meats and not eating unclean meats. God uses the vision to teach Peter that the Good News is for everyone and not only for Jews.

The vision is meant to stop Peter’s dislike of non-Jews. Peter feels that if he goes into Cornelius’ house and eats with him, then he, Peter, will become dirty. Then he will not be able to worship in the temple. Why does Peter think this way? Because Jews from Judea who live in the first century live separate from non-Jews.

Why do the Jews in Peter’s time behave this way? The problem comes from their wrong idea about God. Many Jews during this time believe it is wrong to eat with non-Jews. This idea goes against God’s first plan for Israel to share the truth about Him with everyone on the earth. 

But in Bible times non-Jews are not circumcised. Circumcised means that the extra skin at the end of the male sex organ is cut off. So, Jews look down on non-Jews because they are not circumcised. The Jews believe God will not bless non-Jews until they are circumcised and became Jews first. But Jewish Christians start to see this thinking is wrong.

`Read Titus 2:11; Galatians 3:26–28; and Ephesians 2:11–19. As these verses show us, why is the Good News for everyone?`