---
title:  The Gift Of The Holy Spirit
date:   07/08/2018
---

Acts 10:44–48 shows us an important time in the New Testament church’s history. It was the first time that the Good News was preached to a non-Jew by one of Jesus’ followers. Before this time, Jesus’ followers and other Jewish believers from Judea were not ready to accept non-Jews in the church. These Jewish Christians believed that God gave the Good News only to the Jews. So, the Jewish Christians believed that non-Jews must become Jews first before they joined the church. But the Jewish Christians in New Testament needed to change this way of thinking.

God helped change the way His followers think about non-Jews. How? God gave the gift of speaking different languages to Cornelius and his family. This gift showed very clearly that God does not love one group of people more than another group. Both Jews and non-Jews are the same in God’s eyes. God will save both Jews and non-Jews.

`Read Acts 11:1–18. How does the church in Jerusalem feel about Peter’s experience at Caesarea?`

In Bible times, Jews do not think well of non-Jews. This dislike leads Jewish believers in Jerusalem to blame Peter for eating with people who are not circumcised. To be circumcised means that the extra skin at the end of the male sex organ is cut off. So, it looks as if the believers in Jerusalem care more about Jewish laws than they care about saving Cornelius and his family. Maybe Jewish believers worry that the Jews will think the Jewish believers turned away from the Jewish faith if the Jews see the Jewish believers eating with non-Jews. That will mean God no longer accepts the believers. Then the Jews may try to kill the believers as they killed Stephen. 

“The Jews close a door against many non-Jews. But the time comes for that door to open. The non-Jews who accept the Good News will be equal to the Jewish believers. They will not need to be circumcised first.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders], page 136, adapted.

God gave His people the gift of speaking different languages when He poured His Spirit on them. God gave His people this gift so they could preach the Good News to everyone on earth. God gave this gift to Cornelius and his family for a different reason. God wanted to show His Jewish followers that His Spirit worked to save non-Jews.