---
title:  The Church In Antioch
date:   08/08/2018
---

Luke is happy when Cornelius accepts Jesus. Luke is so happy about it that he stops telling us the story about Peter’s work for God and starts telling us about how many more non-Jews are accepting the Good News.

`Read the story in Acts 11:19–26 about the Jewish believers who are forced to leave Jerusalem. What happens when they come to Antioch?`

This part of Acts 11 helps us remember Paul’s attacks against Christians in Acts 8. Some of the Greek-speaking Jewish believers were forced to leave Jerusalem during the time when non-Jews in Judea started accepting Jesus. So, these Greek-speaking Jewish believers took the Good News to places far from Judea.

Luke gives special attention to the city of Antioch. Antioch was an important city in Syria. The believers who were forced to leave Jerusalem started to preach to other Jews. Many of these Jews accepted Jesus. So, Jesus’ command in Acts 1:8 came true. And the Greek-speaking Jewish Christians were the ones who Jesus’ command come true. They started the work of taking the Good News to the non-Jews.

The church experienced success in Antioch. So, the leaders in Jerusalem decided to send Barnabas there to see what was happening and to tell the leaders about it. Barnabas saw that there were many people in Antioch who wanted to know about the Good News. So, Barnabas asked Paul who was in Tarsus to come help him. 

Barnabas was right. During the year that he and Paul worked together, large crowds of non-Jews heard the Good News. It was in Antioch that people named the believers “Christians” for the first time (Acts 11:26, NLV). This verse seems to say that people who were not church members gave the name to Christians. It is possible that these people outside the church used the name “Christians” to make fun of the believers. Inside the church, believers had other names for each other: “ ‘brothers and sisters’ ” (Acts 1:16, NIrV); “followers of Jesus” (Acts 6:1, ERV); and also “ ‘holy people’ ” (Acts 9:13, ERV). By the time Luke finished writing Acts, the name “Christian” became the name for Jesus’ followers everywhere (Acts 26:28).

`What does it mean to be known as a Christian?`