---
title:  'King Herod’s Attacks Against The Church'
date:   09/08/2018
---

In Acts 12:1–4, Luke tells us about King Herod’s attacks against the apostles. The apostles were the men Jesus chose to lead His church after He went back to heaven. Herod put the apostle James to death. James was the brother of John and the son of Zebedee (Mark 1:19). 

`Read Acts 12:1–4. What do these verses teach us about the dangers that the New Testament church experienced?`

There were several kings named Herod. The Herod that these verses talk about is Agrippa the First. Agrippa the First was the grandson of Herod the Great (Matthew 2:1). Agrippa the First ruled Judea from A.D. 41 to 44. He was popular among the Jews he ruled because he followed the Jewish religion very carefully. 

Herod planned to kill Peter too. Herod’s soldiers arrested Peter. Then they brought Peter to Herod. Herod sent four soldiers to watch Peter at all times. Peter was chained to two of the four soldiers, with one soldier chained on his left and one soldier chained to his right side. The other two soldiers guarded the door. Peter escaped from prison before. So, Herod did not want to let Peter escape from prison again. 

`Read in Acts 12:5–18 about the Christians who pray for Peter. What happens to Peter because of their prayers?`

The night before Agrippa planned to kill Peter, an angel helped Peter to escape from prison.

Next, Luke tells us the story about how Agrippa dies at Caesarea (Acts 12:20–23). Many people have tried to figure out what caused Agrippa’s death. (Here are some guesses about what killed him: Was it because his stomach swelled up from an infection? Or did he die from a painful sore inside his body? Or was he poisoned?) No one knows for sure how he died. But Luke is clear about why the king died. God judged Agrippa and found him guilty.

`Jesus is killed. Peter escapes death. God judges Herod. Sometimes the things that happen make sense, and sometimes they do not. What should this tell us about why we need to trust God about the things we cannot understand?`