---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   10/08/2018
---

“In Acts 10 we read about another example of the work done by angels from heaven. In this chapter in Acts the angels help Cornelius and the people with him to become Christians. Our people should read Acts 8–10 and pay special attention to them. In these chapters, we see that God and His angels work very closely with the Christian worker who is trying to save souls. For sure, God and His angels are nearer to this worker than many people might believe. We should learn from these chapters the lesson of how much God loves each person. We should be kind to everyone. We should remember that each person is God’s tool for doing His work here on the earth.”—Ellen G. White Comments [ideas], The SDA Bible Commentary [explanation], volume 6, page 1059, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Luke tells us that Cornelius “was a religious man. He and all the other people who lived in his house worshiped the true God. He gave much of his money to the poor and prayed to God often” (Acts 10:2, ICB). It is clear from this verse that God’s Spirit was already working in Cornelius’s heart long before he met Peter. Do you think Cornelius’ strong prayer life and his loyal worship of God made it easier for God to bring Cornelius the Good News that Jesus saves sinners from their sins? What lesson can we learn from Cornelius’s story about prayer and worship?`

`2.	In class, let us go back to the question at the end of Monday’s study and ask yourselves: What are the different beliefs and the ways of life around us that cause one group of people to have bad feelings about another group who are different from them? As Christians, we must not let our bad feelings for other people live in our hearts. So, how can we move away from the different beliefs and ways of life around us that cause these bad feelings?`

`3.	Paul’s attacks on the church hurt the Christians. But in the end, God used these attacks to make good things happen: the Christians who escaped Paul’s attacks went to Antioch and preached the Good News about Jesus. Share a story in class about how God made good things happen from the pain you suffered.`