---
title:  God Accepts Us and Gives Us Hope
date:   21/02/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Colossians 1:21– 27; Ephesians 5:27; Ephesians 3:17; Ephesians 3:3–6.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Christ [Jesus] never did [didn’t do] any wrong thing, but God punished him as if he had [did]. He [Jesus] died as punishment for our sins. As a result [because Jesus died for us], we become right [accepted] with God when we belong to Christ. We become right, because he [Jesus] is right” (2 Corinthians 5:21, EASY).

As we saw last week, Paul talked about how God accepts us (Colossians 1:20). God accepts us because of everything Jesus did for us (read Lesson 8, Thursday’s study). This week we will study what else Paul says about this topic in his letter to the Colossians.

Jesus’ death on the cross helped God to accept us again. Sin separates us from God. But now, because of Jesus, God accepts us when we believe in His Son.

Our memory verse for this week is 2 Corinthians 5:21. This verse also teaches us the Bible truth that God accepts us because Jesus died for our sins. The Cross is a powerful symbol for God’s love. The Cross shows us that God’s love changes people’s lives when they hear the Good News and accept Jesus. Jesus gives us hope of everlasting life.

Paul also talks about “a secret that God hid from everyone before now” (Colossians 1:26, EASY). What is this secret? What else does this secret include? How is this “secret” connected with the Good News about Jesus? This week, we will study the answer to these questions.