---
title:  Saved From Sin
date:   22/02/2026
---

`Read Colossians 1:21, 22. What is Paul saying in these verses? What does he mean when he talks about our separation from God and our being His enemy? How does Jesus’ death change all that? (Also read Ephesians 5:27 for the answer.)`

Paul lived and wrote 2,000 years ago. He understood that people are evil without God’s love in their hearts. 2,000 years later, who can argue with Paul? Someone said that we don’t need faith to accept the Christian teaching that humans are sinners. Just watch the evening news, right?

Bad as we are, God made a perfect plan to save us. But the only way to solve the sin problem was for Jesus to die.

In Eden after Adam sinned, the Lord went to look for Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve hid from God after they sinned. The Lord called to Adam, “ ‘Where are you?’ ” (Genesis 3:9, ERV). Today, God continues to look for us. We are the same as lost sheep. God looks for each of His lost sheep, one at a time. We see God’s saving plan in Genesis 3:15. This verse is the promise of the Good News about Jesus.

The Good News about Jesus has three simple parts. These three parts are easy for us to understand:

**Part 1:** We are helpless sinners. As sinners, we can’t save ourselves. So, Jesus came to die for our sins. (Read Romans 5:6–8.)

**Part 2:** We must accept Jesus’ death for our sins. Then we must confess our sins and get baptized. When we do these things, Jesus forgives us. He makes us clean from the guilt of sin. (Read Romans 5:9–11 and Romans 6:6, 7.)

**Part 3:** The life we live now after Jesus saves us is because of His power. We join our lives to Him. He changes us and gives us new hearts. Then He lives His life in us. (Read 2 Corinthians 5:17–21 and Galatians 2:20.)

These three parts may happen all at one time. Or they can happen at separate times. Everyone’s experience may be different. But one thing is the same: we must be ready to accept Jesus. We can do the three parts again when we give our lives to Jesus each morning. The most important thing to remember is that we are saved because Jesus died for our sins.