---
title:  If You Continue To Believe . . .
date:   23/02/2026
---

`Read Colossians 1:23. What encouraging words does Paul write to the Colossian church in this verse? How do these words give hope to Paul’s readers? (Also read Colossians 2:5 and Ephesians 3:17.)`

Paul encourages the Colossians to continue to believe. Paul already saw proof of their faith. Paul knows that their faith is strong and loyal (Colossians 2:5). At the same time, their hope depends on their continuing to believe. Their faith must stay strong and continue to grow.

The word “continue” in Colossians 1:23 means not to give up. The Bible uses this same word to talk about the Jewish spiritual leaders who brought to Jesus the woman who cheated and broke the seventh commandment. The Jewish leaders continued to ask Jesus for an answer about what they should do with this woman (John 8:7). The Bible also uses the word “continue” to talk about Peter after he escaped jail. Peter continued to knock at the door after Rhoda left it locked. Rhoda ran inside to tell everyone Peter was at the door (Acts 12:16). Paul also uses the word “continue” to encourage Timothy to keep believing in Bible truth (1 Timothy 4:16). In Colossians 1:23, Paul encourages his readers to keep believing and trusting in God.

As we will see next week, Paul doesn’t want the Colossians to accept wrong ideas about the Good News. (Read Colossians 2:8, 20–22.) Paul wants the Colossians to grow strong in faith and in their love for God’s Word, the Bible. (Read Matthew 7:25; Ephesians 2:20; and Ephesians 3:17.)

Paul wants the Colossians to be the same as a wall or building that can’t be moved. Then their hope in the Good News will always stay strong. Paul talks about this same idea in 1 Corinthians 15:58: “So you must continue to be strong in your spirits, my Christian friends that I love. Do not let anything move you away from your faith. Continue to work hard as you serve the Lord. You know that whatever you do for him will not be useless” (EASY).

`What is your experience with staying strong in the faith? Why is it important to continue to make the choice to stay strong? What will happen if you don’t?`