---
title:  God’s Everlasting Plan
date:   24/02/2026
---

`Read Colossians 1:24, 25. What does Paul say in these verses about his suffering for Jesus?`

Paul wrote his letter to the Colossian church while he was in a house jail in Rome. For sure, Paul suffered at this time. As a man in jail, Paul no longer could travel from place to place and preach as he did in the past (Acts 20:20). Maybe this reason caused Paul more suffer­ing than being in jail did. Jesus warned His followers that they must suffer for their faith (Matthew 24:9; John 16:33). But the blessings in heaven that God prom­ises us “make the troubles that we have now seem very small” (Romans 8:18, EASY). So, Paul rejoices to the Colossians about his sufferings. Paul accepts His troubles cheerfully because he knows they will be a blessing for the church (Colossians 1:24).

Yes, Paul was in jail. “But nobody can keep God’s message in a prison!” (2 Timothy 2:9, EASY). While Paul was in jail, he wrote letters to the Philippians, to the Ephesians, and to Philemon. When Paul got out of jail, he wrote 1 Timothy and Titus. When Paul was put in a Roman jail again for the final time, he wrote 2 Timothy. In short, the time Paul spent in jail was a blessing to the church, then and now. Paul wrote a big part of the New Testament during this time. We think he also wrote the book of Hebrews at this time, too.

God’s everlasting plan to save us included Paul’s expe­rience and more. Paul’s work for God and the work of Jesus’ other followers were all part of God’s plan. So was the work of God’s special messengers in Old Testament times, including the work that Moses did. Their job was to “tell the complete message of God” (Colossians 1:25, ERV).

We will look more at God’s plan tomorrow. For now, we should understand that Paul knew his work was a small part of a much bigger plan. God started this plan before He made the skies and the earth (Matthew 13:35; Ephesians 1:4).

`Think about your own life. How do the decisions you make (both big and small) fit in God’s bigger plan to save us? Can we really know if a decision we make is really “small”? How can a small decision really be a big one that we will understand only later with time?`