---
title:  God’s Secret
date:   25/02/2026
---

`Read Colossians 1:26, 27. Paul talks about God’s secret in these verses. What is this secret?`

Elsewhere, in 1 Corinthians 2:7, Paul also talks about “God’s secret” (ERV): “But before God made the world [the skies and the earth], he decided to let us know these secrets” (EASY). God’s plan to save us is His secret. Peter also talks about these Bible truths: “Even the angels would like to understand more about these things” (1 Peter 1:12, EASY). The message Paul preaches is the “good news . . . that God has kept secret since long ago” (Romans 16:25, EASY). But Jesus helps us understand this secret or mystery (2 Corinthians 3:14).

**Read the following verses about God’s mystery. How do they help us to understand God’s plan to save us?**

`Ephesians 1:7–10`

`Ephesians 3:3–6`

In the end, Jesus will join everything in heaven and on earth. Then everything will be complete in Him. In John 17, Jesus prayed for the church to work together like God, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit work together for peace. But no one understood how God would make this peace happen in the church until Jesus died.

Why did God love us so much that He gave us Jesus? When we get to heaven, we will study God’s plan to save us. Our study will continue forever. Until then, we know that Jesus “died on behalf of [for] all people. So, while we live, we no longer live to please ourselves. Instead, we live to please Christ. He is the one that died on our behalf [for us]. He is the one that God raised up [woke up from the dead], to live again” (2 Corinthians 5:15, EASY). Everyone who believes in Jesus will share in the things God promises us. God will keep His promises about Jesus to both the Jews and the non-Jews. God will join them all together into one body, the church.

Paul says, “Christ [Jesus] lives in you” (Colossians 1:27, ERV). How? When we have faith, Jesus lives in our hearts.