---
title:  What the Worldwide War is All About
date:   26/02/2026
---

`Read Colossians 1:28, 29. What is Paul talking about in these verses?`

The topic of Paul’s preaching is Jesus and His death on the cross (1 Corinthians 1:23). Ephesians 5:27 tells us why Jesus Christ died to save us: “Christ died so that he could give the church to himself like [the same as] a bride in all her beauty. He died so that the church could be holy and without fault, with no evil or sin or any other thing wrong in it” (ERV). Paul wanted his preaching to help “every person who belongs to Christ to become complete” (Colossians 1:28, EASY). Paul taught and warned the people. He taught people Bible truth and how to live (2 Thessalonians 2:15; 1 Timothy 4:11; 1 Timothy 5:7; Titus 1:9). Paul warned about the bad things that would happen if Christians rejected Jesus. Paul also warned about the dangers of false teachers (Acts 20:29–31; Romans 16:17).

When we accept the Bible’s teachings and warnings, we grow as Christians. Growing in Jesus is an important idea. Parents celebrate their baby’s first words and first steps. They celebrate when their child learns to read. But what if someone’s child didn’t learn to walk or talk after many years? The parents would be worried, right? Growth is a normal part of life.

The Greek word written as “complete” in Colossians 1:28 (EASY) is “teleios.” “Teleios” means something that is perfect and not spoiled in any way. As we grow in faith, we understand God’s law more and more and what it asks of us (Psalm 119:96). We understand that God’s law “judges [shows us] the thoughts and feelings in our hearts” (Hebrews 4:12, ERV).

But we must be careful. That’s why Paul uses the word “warn” in Colossians 1:28 (EASY). “Some people think they are doing what’s right. But what they are doing will really kill them” (Proverbs 14:12, ICB). When we study the Bible, the Holy Spirit gives us wisdom. False teachings often have some truth. But these teachings add or remove something the Bible says (read Isaiah 8:20). Then we may question if what the Bible says really matters for our time. So, we must be wise when we study the Bible. Then we will know what is Bible truth and what are false teachings.

As we grow in faith, we understand God’s law more and more and what it asks of us (Psalm 119:96).