---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   27/02/2026
---

“We have nothing holy in our hearts. We cannot keep God’s law. But Jesus made a way to save us. . . . You must give yourself to Him. Accept Him as your Savior. Your past may be filled with sin. But God will accept you as holy because of Jesus. God looks at us and sees only Jesus’ holy life. God accepts us as if we never sinned.

“But there’s more. Jesus changes the heart. Jesus lives in our heart when we have faith in Him. Faith helps us keep our connection with Jesus. We also must continue to give our hearts to Him. As long as we choose to serve Him, He will work in us to do the things that please God. . . .

“So we have no reason to brag or feel pride in our hearts. Jesus is our only reason for hope. His holy life is His gift to us. His gift makes our hearts clean. Then His Spirit works in us to make us holy.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pages 62, 63, adapted.

“God showed me in a powerful way that many people would leave our church. They would obey evil spirits and accept their teachings. The Lord wants each person who believes Bible truth to understand what is truth.”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism, page 363, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Read the memory verse again. What does it mean? What does it mean that Jesus became sin for us? How should this idea help us understand Jesus’ death as our Substitute on the cross? Also, what does it mean that God accepts us because of Jesus?`

`Many Christians believe in the idea of “once saved always saved.” This teaching means that Christians can never be lost after they accept Jesus. Why is this idea false? How does this false teaching put Christians who believe it in danger? We must reject this false teaching. At the same time, how can we have hope that we are saved?`

`How strong is your faith (read Colossians 1:23)? How well do you know what you believe and why you believe it? What can you do to better know what you believe? Why is strong faith so important?`