---
title:  God Is Entirely Good and Righteous
date:  03/02/2025
---

God does not simply claim to love justice and call people to love and do justice, but God Himself perfectly and unwaveringly exemplifies these traits. Scripture teaches that God is entirely holy, faithful, righteous, and loving. God only and always does what is loving, righteous, and just. He never does any wrong.

`Read Deuteronomy 32:4 and Psalm 92:15. What do these passages teach about the faithfulness and righteousness of God?`

These and many other passages declare that God is just and loving—“there is no unrighteousness in Him” (Ps. 92:15; compare with Ps. 25:8, Ps. 129:4). God “will do no unrighteousness. Every morning He brings His justice to light; He never fails, but the unjust knows no shame” (Zeph. 3:5, NKJV). Notice the direct contrast of God’s character over and against that of those who love injustice.

God knows what is best for everyone, wants what is best for everyone, and continually works to bring about the best outcome for all involved.

`Read Psalm 9:7, 8 and Psalm 145:9–17. What do these verses teach about God?`

The God of the Bible is “a just judge” (Ps. 7:11, NKJV), and no evil dwells with Him (Ps. 5:4). As 1 John 1:5 teaches, “God is light and in Him is no darkness at all” (NKJV). Indeed, God is not only perfectly good, but according to James 1:13 (NKJV), “God cannot be tempted by evil” (compare with Hab. 1:13).

In all this, God’s goodness and glory are inextricably connected. While many idolize power, God is all-powerful, but He exercises His power only in ways that are just and loving. It is no coincidence that when Moses asked God, “ ‘Show me Your glory,’ ” God responded by saying, “ ‘I will make all My goodness pass before you’ ” (Exod. 33:18, 19, NKJV).

`Why does such a good God allow for so much of the evil that is in this world? Discuss your answer in class.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The shortness of time is urged as an incentive for us to seek righteousness and to make Christ our friend. This is not the great motive. It savors of selfishness. Is it necessary that the terrors of the day of God be held before us to compel us through fear to right action? This ought not to be. Jesus is attractive. He is full of love, mercy, and compassion. He proposes to be our friend, to walk with us through all the rough pathways of life. He says to you, I am the Lord thy God; walk with Me, and I will fill thy path with light. Jesus, the Majesty of heaven, proposes to elevate to companionship with Himself those who come to Him with their burdens, their weaknesses, and their cares. He will make them His dear children, and finally give them an inheritance of more value than the empires of kings, a crown of glory richer than has ever decked the brow of the most exalted earthly monarch.\
It is our privilege to have a calm, close, happy walk with Jesus every day we live.—That I May Know Him, p. 320.

How shall we know for ourselves God’s goodness and His love? The psalmist tells us—not, hear and know, read and know, or believe and know; but—“Taste and see that the Lord is good.” Instead of relying upon the word of another, taste for yourself.\
Experience is knowledge derived from experiment. Experimental religion is what is needed now. “Taste and see that the Lord is good.” Some—yes, a large number—have a theoretical knowledge of religious truth, but have never felt the renewing power of divine grace upon their own hearts. . . . [T]hey neglect the most precious opportunities to make their peace with God. . . .\
They have never tasted and learned by experience that the Lord is good.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 221.

For the joy that was set before Him, Christ endured the cross. He died on the cross as a sacrifice for the world, and through this sacrifice comes the greatest blessing that God could bestow—the gift of the Holy Spirit. This blessing is for all who will receive Christ. The fallen world is the battlefield for the greatest conflict the heavenly universe and earthly powers have ever witnessed. It was appointed as the theater on which would be fought out the grand struggle between good and evil, between heaven and hell. Every human being acts a part in this conflict. No one can stand on neutral ground. Men must either accept or reject the world’s Redeemer. All are witnesses, either for or against Christ. Christ calls upon those who stand under His banner to engage in the conflict with Him as faithful soldiers, that they may inherit the crown of life. They have been adopted as sons and daughters of God.—Lift Him Up, p. 253.