---
title:  The Love and Forgiveness of Jesus
date:   20/09/2026
---

Paul starts and ends his second letter to the Corinthians with the same idea: the love and forgiveness of Jesus (2 Corinthians 1:2; 2 Corinthians 13:14). As we saw at the beginning of this quarter, Paul just can’t stop thinking and talking about Jesus.

“You know how much love our Lord Jesus Christ had. He was rich, but he became poor for your sakes [for you]. Because he became poor, you can become rich” (2 Corinthians 8:9, WE). Wow! Jesus left the riches in ­heaven to become poor. Jesus walked the dirty roads of ancient Galilee. “And when he lived as a man, he made himself even less important. He obeyed God completely, so that he died. He even died on a cross!” (Philippians 2:8, EASY). We live on a planet filled with sin, death, and suffering. So, we may have trouble understanding everything that Jesus left behind in heaven to come to save us.

`Read Romans 16:20; Galatians 6:18; Philippians 4:23; and 1 Thessalonians 5:28. What important teaching do you learn in these verses?`

Paul talks a lot about God’s love and forgiveness in his letters: read Romans 5:15 and Romans 5:17. Paul also starts and ends other letters the same as 2 Corinthians: he talks about Jesus’ love and forgiveness (Romans 1:7; Romans 16:20; 1 Corinthians 1:3; 1 Corinthians 16:23; Galatians 1:3; Galatians 6:18; Philippians 1:2; Philippians 4:23). This topic filled Paul’s heart and mind. He wanted it to fill the hearts and minds of the Corinthians, too.

Paul wants all the churches to show God’s love and forgiveness all the time. Notice what Paul says to the Ephesians: “May God give loving-favor to all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with a love that never gets weak” (Ephesians 6:24, NLV). Did Paul want people to love Jesus with less love than that? Of course not! Paul wanted the love and forgiveness to touch more and more people (2 Corinthians 4:15). God’s love and forgiveness were enough for Paul (2 Corinthians 12:9). He wanted these things to be enough for the churches, too.

`Think about all the mistakes you make. What reward do you think you should get for your wrong words and actions? But what does God offer you anyway?`