---
title:  How Much Does God Love Us?
date:   21/09/2026
---

“I pray that the Lord Jesus Christ [the Savior] will continue to be very kind to you all. I pray that God’s love will be with you. And I pray that the Holy Spirit will help you to serve each other as friends” (2 Corinthians 13:14, EASY). Paul ends his second letter to the Corinthians with this verse. Do you see that he talks about the Godhead? The Godhead is the Three-in-One God: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. When we understand the work that the Godhead does, we will better understand God and His love.

`Read John 3:16, 17; Romans 8:37–39; and 1 John 4:8–11. What do these verses tell us about God’s love?`

In 1 John 4:8, we read that “God is love” (ERV). Love is an important part of who God is. God gave His only Son to die for us to show us what is love (John 3:16). God sent Jesus to save us (John 3:17). That was part of God’s plan (Acts 3:20, 21; 1 John 4:10, 14). Many times, Jesus said that the Father sent Him (Matthew 10:40; Mark 9:37).

Paul says, “But God showed His love to us. While we were still [continued to be] sinners, Christ died for us” (Romans 5:8, NLV). Marriage is a symbol of God’s love. The love between parents and children shows us God’s love, too. Nature also shows us God’s love. Ellen G. White wrote, “The budding flowers and the growing grass show us that ‘God is love’ [1 John 4:8, ERV]. The birdsong, the perfume of flowers, the green trees show us that our Father in heaven cares for us. He wishes to make us happy.”—Steps to Christ, page 10, adapted. But the most powerful proof of God’s love is Jesus. God gave Jesus as an offering for our sins. Jesus gave His life for us. When we understand this Bible truth, we also “should be willing to die for our brothers” and sisters (1 John 3:16, WE).

Paul wanted the Corinthians to live in peace. But without love, we can’t live in peace with each other. That’s why Paul wrote, “Love helps people to become strong” (1 Corinthians 8:1, EASY). Without love, everything is useless and empty (1 Corinthians 13:1–3). So, everything we do must be done in love (1 Corinthians 16:14).

`What would we lose from the Good News if Jesus were not fully God?`