---
title:  The God of Love
date:   22/09/2026
---

In ancient times, people didn’t believe that the gods loved humans. They believed the gods were mean and nasty. So, people needed to bring the gods offerings and gifts to make peace with them. The idea of a God of love was a new and strange idea in Paul’s day. Paul says that our God is “the God of love and peace” (2 Corinthians 13:11, ERV).

`Read 2 Corinthians 13:11. What hope does this verse give you? How can you live what this verse teaches?`

The words “the God of love and peace” can be understood two ways. First, God gives us love and peace. Second, God always feels love and peace. You don’t need to choose one meaning over the other. Both meanings are correct. Love and peace are part of God. So, He gives us love and peace.

Paul talks about the other ways God blesses us. God encourages us (Romans 15:5). God gives us hope (Romans 15:13). As we just saw, God gives us peace (Romans 15:33; Romans 16:20; 1 Corinthians 14:33; Philippians 4:9; 1 Thessalonians 5:23). God gives us mercy, love, and forgiveness (2 Corinthians 1:3). God helps us feel better (2 Corinthians 1:3). God gives us all these gifts because He loves us.

The words “God of peace” are used many times in the Bible. But the words “God of love” are used only in 2 Corinthians 13:11. So, we should give this special verse our careful attention and study.

As 2 Corinthians 13:14 shows us, Paul believes in one God in Three Persons. We believe in one God as Three Persons, too. As we saw already, the Three-in-One God is named the Godhead. The Godhead includes the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Together, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit live in an everlasting relationship of love. The Three-in-One God loves us. The Three-Person God commands us to love each other. We must love each other in a way that shows the love that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit have for each other. This love shows everyone God’s love.