---
title:  Fellowship With The Holy Spirit
date:   23/09/2026
---

Paul says, “You belong to Christ [Jesus]. . . . You are able to [can] help one another because his Spirit is in you” (Philippians 2:1, EASY; also read verse 2).

Some people say that the Holy Spirit is not really a Person. But that is not correct. Why would Paul include the Holy Spirit in the Godhead if He is not a Person? As we saw already, the Godhead is the Three-in-One God: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The Father and Son have a personal relationship with each other (2 Corinthians 1:3; 2 Corinthians 11:31). In the same way, the Holy Spirit has a personal relationship with us. This relationship helps us understand that Spirit also is a Person (Romans 8:15, 16; read also John 14:16, 17, 26; John 15:26).

The words “his Spirit is in you” (EASY) also can be written as “Do we share together in the Spirit?” (ICB). We can understand these words two ways. First, they can mean the fellowship we have with each other. The Spirit gives us this fellowship. Second, these words can mean our personal relationship with the Holy Spirit. Both ideas are correct.

`Read 1 Corinthians 2:10, 11; 1 Corinthians 3:16; 1 Corinthians 12:11; and 2 Corinthians 3:6, 17. What did Paul teach the Corinthians about the Holy Spirit?`

Paul has much to say about the work of the Spirit. The Spirit makes the church grow strong (1 Corinthians 14:12). The Spirit gets people ready to do God’s work (1 Corinthians 2:4, 5). The Spirit explains God’s deep secrets (1 Corinthians 2:10, 11) and teaches them to us (1 Corinthians 2:13). The Spirit lives in us (1 Corinthians 3:16; 1 Corinthians 6:19). The Spirit works with Jesus to make us clean and holy (1 Corinthians 6:11). The Spirit gives spiritual gifts to the church (1 Corinthians 12–14). God puts His mark on us to show us we belong to Him. The Spirit lives in our hearts as proof that we are God’s (2 Corinthians 1:22). The Spirit writes God’s law in human hearts (2 Corinthians 3:3). The Spirit gives us new life in Jesus (2 Corinthians 3:6). He helps us win the fight against sin (2 Corinthians 3:17). For sure, we can’t live without the Holy Spirit.

`Why must we believe that the Holy Spirit is God? How does this Bible truth help us understand God’s love for us?`