---
title:  Our Three-in-One God
date:   24/09/2026
---

Some people do not understand 2 Corinthians 13:14. They think this verse says that only Jesus gives us love and forgiveness. Love comes only from God. And only the Holy Spirit gives us fellowship. But these ideas are false.

`Read 1 Corinthians 1:3, 4, 9; 1 Corinthians 10:16; 2 Corinthians 1:2, 12; Romans 8:35; Romans 15:30; Galatians 2:20; and Ephesians 3:19. What do these ­verses say about love, forgiveness, mercy, and fellowship? Which members of the Godhead give us these things? As we saw already, the Godhead is the Three-in-One God: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.`

The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit work together to save us. Mercy, love, and fellowship come from all three of Them, and not just one of Them. At the same time, each member of the Godhead has certain jobs and tasks in saving us. In Galatians 4:4–6, Paul tells us that the Father sent Jesus to save us. This information tells us that the Father made the plan (Galatians 4:4). The Son was born from a woman (Galatians 4:4). This verse tells us how Jesus came to earth. Jesus kept the ancient promise God made in Eden (Genesis 3:15). The Son saved us. His death helped the Father to accept us. His death made a relationship between us and the Father happen again. The Holy Spirit helps us to become God’s children (Galatians 4:6).

Paul also tells us that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit work together to help the church do its work (1 Corinthians 12:4–6). The Godhead gives us spiritual strength (Ephesians 3:14–19). The Godhead helps us to work together in peace and love in the church. Our fellowship with church members shows other people the love between the members of the Godhead (Ephesians 4:4–6). The Three Persons of the Godhead also work together to save us (Ephesians 1:3, 13, 14). In Ephesians, Paul says that we must be filled with the Father (Ephesians 3:19), the Son (Ephesians 4:13), and the Holy Spirit (Ephesians 5:18).

Paul ends his letter with a beautiful promise in 2 Corinthians 13:14. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit will be with us now and in the future.

`How should our fellowship with each other show the beautiful relationship of the Godhead?`