---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   25/09/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘Let Not Your Heart Be Troubled,’ ” pages 662–680, in The Desire of Ages.

“Only Jesus’ love and forgiveness can change our hearts. His love and forgiveness make our hearts new and give us new life. Then we can live for God. . . . Men can’t make their hearts clean or holy. Only Jesus can heal us from sin. Sin is the same as a disease. Jesus is the Mighty Doctor. Jesus is heaven’s best gift. He is filled with love, forgiveness, and Bible truth. Only Jesus can save sinners.”—Ellen G. White, in Signs of the Times, May 2, 1892, adapted.

“We must understand that the Holy Spirit is a Person. He is as much a Person as God is a Person. The Holy Spirit has a personality. If He didn’t, He couldn’t communicate with our own hearts and minds and tell us we are God’s children. The Holy Spirit is God. If He weren’t, He couldn’t share with us the secrets that are hidden in God’s mind.”—Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By, page 52, adapted.

“Three living Persons belong to the Godhead. [As we already saw, the Godhead is the Three-in-One God: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.] When we accept Jesus and get baptized, we are baptized in the name of these three mighty powers: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. These powers will work with the obedient servants of ­heaven to help them live a new life in Jesus.”—Ellen
G. White, Evangelism, page 615, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Most of us know the hymn “Amazing Grace.” Grace is God’s love, forgiveness, and power over sin. What is so amazing about the grace of Jesus?`

`The picture-story about the two sons is a powerful example of God’s love (Luke 15:11–32). How do we know that the father in this picture-story is a loving father? What does he do to show his love?`

`How can local churches show that they have God’s Spirit in their hearts? How can church members show love for each other?`