---
title:  Spiritual War
date:  13/09/2026
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 10:1–11. Paul’s meekness in his dealings with the Corinthians was sometimes confused with weakness. What words or phrases in this passage reveal Paul’s courage in dealing with the problem of false teachers in Corinth?`

Paul begins 2 Corinthians 10 very personally: “Now I, Paul, make a personal appeal to you” (2 Cor. 10:1, HCSB). This shows how concerned Paul was about false teachings infiltrating the church. His words in 2 Corinthians 10:1 ironically refer to his opponents’ accusation that he was a frightening bully when writing letters from a distance but a pitiful coward when dealing with people face-to-face (2 Cor. 10:10, 11). He responds that what seemed to be weakness should be seen as powerful meekness and Christlike gentleness.

False teachers must be faced with boldness and confidence (2 Cor. 10:2) but mingled with the gentleness of Christ (2 Cor. 10:1). Jesus once said, “I am gentle and humble in heart” (Matt. 11:29, NIV). However, Jesus also boldly confronted the money changers in the temple by overturning their tables and calling them robbers (Matt. 21:12, 13). He also called the Pharisees hypocrites and whitewashed tombs right to their faces (Matt. 23:23–27). Like Jesus, Paul also knows that we are in a spiritual war that demands the use of God’s whole armor (Eph. 6:12–17).

Paul’s language in 2 Corinthians 10 is military because lives are at stake (2 Cor. 10:3–6). This is not a mere human conflict but a divine battle for winning people to Christ. In that connection, every false argument and lofty opinion must be faced and demolished, based on the Word of God, so that every thought may be brought into captivity “to make it obedient to Christ” (2 Cor. 10:5, NIV).

In this spiritual warfare, Paul acts in the authority of Christ. This authority, however, aims at edification, not destruction (2 Cor. 10:8). It is easy for spiritual leaders to affirm that they are acting in the authority of God. Nevertheless, they must remember that their authority is given by Christ, and, like Him, they must be meek and humble in heart. Paul’s claim of his Christ-given authority is due to his concern that the Corinthians were listening to the wrong people, thereby risking their loyalty to Christ.

`How can we be simultaneously gentle and bold when dealing with false teachers? Why must we be both?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In the future, deception of every kind is to arise, and we want solid ground for our feet. We want solid pillars for the building. Not one pin is to be removed from that which the Lord has established. The enemy will bring in false theories, such as the doctrine that there is no sanctuary. This is one of the points on which there will be a departing from the faith. Where shall we find safety unless it be in the truths that the Lord has been giving for the last fifty years?\
I want to tell you that Christ lives. He makes intercession for us, and He will save everyone who will come to Him in faith and obey His directions. But remember that He does not want you to give your energies to criticism of your brethren. Attend to the salvation of your own soul. Do the work God has given you. You will find so much to do that you will have no inclination to criticize someone else. Use the talent of speech to help and bless. If you do the work God has given you, you will have a message to bear, and you will understand what is meant by the sanctification of the Spirit.\
Do not think that Satan is not doing anything. Do not think that his army is passive. He and his agencies are on the ground today. We are to put on the whole armor of God. Having done all, we are to stand, meeting principalities and powers and spiritual wickedness in high places. And if we have on the heavenly armor, we shall find that the assaults of the enemy will not have power over us. Angels of God will be round about us to protect us. I have the assurance of God that thus it will be.\
In the name of the Lord God of Israel I ask you to come up to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord against the mighty. If you do this, you will have on your side a strong Helper, a personal Saviour. You will be covered with the shield of providence. God will make a way for you, so that you will never be overtaken by the enemy.—Ye Shall Receive Power, p. 239.

False theories will be mingled with every phase of experience, and advocated with satanic earnestness in order to captivate the mind of every soul who is not rooted and grounded in a full knowledge of the sacred principles of the Word. In the very midst of us will arise false teachers, giving heed to seducing spirits whose doctrines are of satanic origin. These teachers will draw away disciples after themselves. Creeping in unawares, they will use flattering words, and make skillful misrepresentations with seductive tact.\
The only hope of our churches is to keep wide awake. Those who are well grounded in the truth of the Word, those who test everything by a “Thus saith the Lord” are safe. The Holy Spirit will guide those who prize the wisdom of God above the deceptive sophistries of satanic agencies. Let there be much praying, not in human lines but under the inspiration of love of the truth as it is in Jesus Christ. The families who believe the truth are to speak words of wisdom and intelligence—words that will come to them as the result of searching the Scriptures.—Ye Shall Receive Power, p. 125.