---
title:  Boasting in the Lord
date:  14/09/2026
---

Yesterday, we saw that Paul and his fellow workers exerted their ministries as a spiritual warfare, and did so using God’s weapons. Today, we will see that false teachers act according to human criteria. They boast inappropriately. In turn, Paul boasts only in the Lord. As he wrote: “But ‘he who glories, let him glory in the Lord’ ” (2 Cor. 10:17, NKJV).

`Read 2 Corinthians 10:13–17. How can an atmosphere of competitiveness harm the preaching of the gospel?`

Paul’s use of self-boasting language has intrigued interpreters throughout the centuries. However, self-boasting was a common practice in the ancient world and was controlled by social conventions to avoid offending the audience. Paul knew such conventions, and he followed them. In addition, Paul makes it clear that his way of boasting distinguishes itself from that of the false teachers. He boasts in the Lord (2 Cor. 10:17). This is a quotation from the Old Testament: “ ‘Let him who boasts boast in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who practices steadfast love, justice, and righteousness in the earth’ ” (Jer. 9:24, ESV). By quoting this passage from Jeremiah, Paul shows that it is Christ who is in focus—Christ’s love, justice, and righteousness.

In other words, Paul’s boasting focuses on God’s accomplishments in Christ. Thus, his boasting is biblical and, hence, inoffensive. On the other hand, his opponents got into an atmosphere of competitiveness by comparing themselves to one another. This is foolishness (2 Cor. 10:12).

In 2 Corinthians 10:14–16, Paul hints that preaching the gospel is the primary focus of his ministry, both in Corinth and in regions beyond Corinth. Paul’s love for Jesus led him to talk constantly about the good news of salvation, found in the death and resurrection of Christ.

Unlike the false teachers in Corinth who commended themselves, Paul had been commended and approved by God (2 Cor. 10:12, 18). He was “called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God” (1 Cor. 1:1, NKJV). He was faithful to this calling until the end of his life (2 Tim. 4:7).

`Reread 2 Corinthians 10:12–18. How can church leaders, or even members, avoid an atmosphere of competition? Why is it so easy to get caught up in things that really don’t matter?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Paul kept ever in view the crown of life which was to be given to him, and not to him only, but also to all those who love Christ’s appearing. But it was victory through Jesus Christ that made the crown of life so desirable to him. Jesus would not have us ambitious to obtain reward, but ambitious to do God’s will because it is His will, irrespective of the reward we are to receive.\
The gift of God is eternal life. The Lord desires all who receive His grace to trust entirely in Him. He calls upon us to exercise pure, simple faith, trusting in Him, without a question as to what recompense we shall receive. We are to work heartily in His service, showing that we have perfect confidence that He will judge righteously.\
In the account of the judgment scene, when the reward is given to the righteous, and sentence is passed on the wicked, the righteous are represented as wondering what they have done that they should receive such reward. But they cherished an abiding faith in Christ. They were imbued with His Spirit, and, without conscious effort, they performed for Christ, in the person of His saints, those services that bring a sure reward. But their motive in working was not to receive compensation. They regarded it as the highest honor to be allowed to work as Christ worked. What they did was done from love to Christ and to their fellowmen, and He who has identified Himself with suffering humanity accredited these acts of compassion and love as though done to Himself. . . .\
Our every endowment, our every talent, we owe to the Lord. Every victory gained is gained through His grace. Therefore, it is entirely out of place for us to boast. . . .\
If we would remember that we are on test and trial before the heavenly universe, that God is proving us, to see what spirit we are of, there would be more serious contemplation, more earnest prayer. Those who work in simplicity realize that of himself man can do no good thing. They are full of gratitude and thanksgiving for the privilege of holding communion with God. Interwoven with their service is a principle that makes their gifts and offerings wholly fragrant. They have the same confidence and trust in God that a child has in its earthly father.\
It is not so much for our activity and zeal that we are rewarded, but for the tenderness, the graciousness, the love that we have mingled with our work for the sick, the oppressed, the afflicted.—Lift Him Up, p. 343.