---
title:  False Teachers Identified
date:  15/09/2026
---

The New Testament contains several warnings against false teachers in Christian communities. Jesus Himself warned the disciples about this same thing (Matt. 7:15–20). The apostles also called attention to it (Gal. 1:6–9, 1 Tim. 6:3–5, 2 Pet. 2:1–3).

`Read 2 Corinthians 11:1–15. How does Paul depict the challenges that he is facing with these false teachers?`

Paul unmasks the work of false teachers. At the same time, he indicates that his ministry is Christ-centered. He compares the church in Corinth to a bride and identifies himself as her father, with the responsibility to present her to Christ (2 Cor. 11:2). He does so because he loves the church (2 Cor. 11:11). So, he was even willing not to be a financial burden to it, even though he had the right to be supported by it (2 Cor. 11:7–12).

On the other hand, the “most eminent apostles” (ironically, this likely refers to the false teachers) are compared to the serpent that deceived Eve (2 Cor. 11:3). Like Satan in the Garden of Eden, the false teachers in Corinth are characterized by deceit and corruption (2 Cor. 11:3, 4, NKJV). Paul’s main concern was that they could lead the Corinthians astray from their sincere devotion and allegiance to Christ.

The intruders preached a different message than Paul preached—a different Jesus and a different gospel (2 Cor. 11:4). This shows that not everyone who preaches Jesus is a God-commissioned instrument. In that regard, Jesus Himself said, “ ‘Not everyone who says to Me, “Lord, Lord,” shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of My Father in heaven’ ” (Matt. 7:21, NKJV). In Galatians 1:6–9, Paul says that whoever preaches a different gospel brings a curse upon himself, but some in Corinth tolerated this kind of error.

Paul exposes the false apostles by saying that they are “deceitful workers, transforming themselves into apostles of Christ” (2 Cor. 11:13, NKJV). They disguise themselves as apostles of Christ, just as “Satan disguises himself as an angel of light” and “his [Satan’s] servants, also, disguise themselves as servants of righteousness” (2 Cor. 11:14, 15, ESV). What a tragic situation: professing servants of Christ working as agents of Satan. Paul concludes his thought by saying that their “end will be according to their works” (2 Cor. 11:15, NKJV).

Look at how strongly he is reacting to error in the church! What should that say to us, as well?

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The people of God are directed to the Scriptures as their safeguard against the influence of false teachers and the delusive power of spirits of darkness. Satan employs every possible device to prevent men from obtaining a knowledge of the Bible; for its plain utterances reveal his deceptions. At every revival of God’s work the prince of evil is aroused to more intense activity; he is now putting forth his utmost efforts for a final struggle against Christ and His followers. The last great delusion is soon to open before us. Antichrist is to perform his marvelous works in our sight. So closely will the counterfeit resemble the true that it will be impossible to distinguish between them except by the Holy Scriptures. By their testimony every statement and every miracle must be tested. . . .\
The man who makes the working of miracles the test of his faith will find that Satan can, through a species of deceptions, perform wonders that will appear to be genuine miracles.\
Satan is a cunning worker, and he will bring in subtle fallacies to darken and confuse the mind and root out the doctrines of salvation. Those who do not accept the Word of God just as it reads, will be snared in his trap.\
Evil angels are upon our track every moment. . . . They assume new ground and work marvels and miracles in our sight. . . .\
Some will be tempted to receive these wonders as from God. The sick will be healed before us. Miracles will be performed in our sight. Are we prepared for the trial which awaits us when the lying wonders of Satan shall be more fully exhibited? Will not many souls be ensnared and taken? By departing from the plain precepts and commandments of God, and giving heed to fables, the minds of many are preparing to receive these lying wonders. We must all now seek to arm ourselves for the contest in which we must soon engage. Faith in God’s word, prayerfully studied and practically applied, will be our shield from Satan’s power and will bring us off conquerors through the blood of Christ.—Maranatha, p. 156.

In our work for God we shall meet with much opposition. By falsehood and deception the Jews strove to keep the people from believing on Christ. Today false teachers will resort to any means to keep people from obtaining a knowledge of the truth. There are those who love error more than they love truth, because truth is opposed to their inclinations and their course of action. They refuse to repent and be converted, even though the evidence for truth is clear and convincing. They do not want to search the Scriptures, to see if these things are so. . . .\
A great and solemn work is before the people of God. They are to come close to Christ in self-denial and self-sacrifice, their one aim being to give the message of mercy to all the world. Some will work in one way and some in another, as the Lord shall call and lead them. But they are all to strive together, seeking to make the work a perfect whole. . . .\
Unconsecrated minds will place hindrances in the way of God’s work, as they have done in the past. But do not stop to enter into controversy and create disagreeable issues. If hindered in one way, be ready to honor God by working in a way that is open. In due time obstacles that now seem insurmountable will be removed. God can remove obstructions in ways most unexpected when He sees that by doing this He can best glorify His name. . . .\
Trials will come, for there are many who are walking at cross purposes with God. Be sure that you are walking before Him in meekness and humility. You may, yes, you will be misjudged, but the evil talkers will be ashamed if you constantly reveal the sweetness of Christ’s character.—This Day With God, p. 221.