---
title:  Sufferings for the Sake of the Gospel
date:  16/09/2026
---

After exposing the false teachers as agents of Satan (2 Cor. 11:1–15), Paul now “plays” their game by boasting a little as a fool might (2 Cor. 11:16–21) so that the Corinthians could see how senseless it was to give ears to the false teachers’ speech. If the Corinthians held them in high regard, Paul deserved higher consideration. His sufferings for the gospel show that he was a faithful servant of Christ (2 Cor. 11:22, 23).

`Read 2 Corinthians 11:22–28. What point is Paul making here?`

While Paul’s Jewish credentials are identical to those of the false teachers (2 Cor. 11:22), his service to Christ surpasses theirs (2 Cor. 11:23). “Are they ministers of Christ?” he asks. The answer is “I am more.” His labors were more abundant; his imprisonments, more frequent; his beatings, more severe.

But this is not all. His list of sufferings also includes five instances of thirty-nine strokes (2 Cor. 11:24), beatings with rods, stoning, shipwrecks, danger in deep waters (2 Cor. 11:25), danger at journeys, danger from rivers, danger from bandits, danger from countrymen, danger from Gentiles, danger in crowded cities, danger in desolate country, danger at sea, danger from false believers (2 Cor. 11:26), strenuous labors, exhausting toils, sleepless nights, hunger, thirst, food shortage, cold, and nakedness (2 Cor. 11:27). As if that weren’t enough, he still had to deal with mental anguish because of his deep anxiety for the churches (2 Cor. 11:28).

Only a true servant of Christ would be willing to suffer like this for the gospel. If Paul were really to boast about his sufferings, he had much to say. However, the next section of the letter shows that the reason for his boast was based not on what he did for Christ but on what Christ had done for him. Paul knew that God’s power is more visibly displayed in human weakness (2 Cor. 12:9, 10). By giving him a thorn in the flesh (2 Cor. 12:7), God protected Paul from boasting about his accomplishments. This kept him humble, aware of his weakness, dependent on divine power, and in the condition of receiving more of God’s grace and mercy.

`Have you also been suffering for the sake of the gospel? What have you learned from this experience? How can the way Paul dealt with his sufferings help you deal with yours?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Did the great apostle to the Gentiles make any real sacrifice when he exchanged Pharisaism for the gospel of Christ? We answer No! With decided purpose, he turned away from wealth, from friends and social distinction, from public honors, and from his kinsmen whom he loved fervently and earnestly. He chose to link his name and his destiny with that of a people he had regarded as low and the offscouring of all things; but for the sake of Christ he suffered the loss of all things.\
His labors were more abundant than any of the disciples, his stripes above measure. He was beaten with rods, stoned, shipwrecked, in deaths oft. He was in peril by land and sea, in the city and in the wilderness, from robbers and from his own countrymen. He prosecuted his mission under continual infirmities, in painfulness, in weariness, in watchings often, in cold, in nakedness. . . . When he answered the bloodthirsty Nero, no man stood with him. . . .\
But did Paul devote his precious time to the relation of his grievous abuses? No, he called the attention from himself to Jesus. He did not live for his own happiness, yet he was happy. . . . “I am exceeding joyful in all our tribulation.” 2 Corinthians 7:4. And in the last days of his life, with a martyr’s death in full view, he exclaims with satisfaction, “I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith.” 2 Timothy 4:7. And fixing his eye upon the immortal future, which had been the grand, inspiring motive of his whole career, he adds, in full assurance of faith, “Henceforth there is laid up forme a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day”—and then this man who had lived for others forgets himself—“and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing.” Oh, noble man of faith!\
Paul was a living example of what every true Christian should be. He lived for God’s glory. . . . “For me to live is Christ.” Philippians 1:21.—Our High Calling, p. 363.

All who are imbued with His Spirit will love as He loved. The very principle that actuated Christ will actuate them in all their dealing one with another.\
This love is the evidence of their discipleship. “By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples,” said Jesus, “if ye have love one to another.” When men are bound together, not by force or self-interest, but by love, they show the working of an influence that is above every human influence. Where this oneness exists, it is evidence that the image of God is being restored in humanity, that a new principle of life has been implanted. It shows that there is power in the divine nature to withstand the supernatural agencies of evil, and that the grace of God subdues the selfishness inherent in the natural heart.\
This love, manifested in the church, will surely stir the wrath of Satan. Christ did not mark out for His disciples an easy path. “If the world hate you,” He said, “ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you; if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also. But all these things will they do unto you for my name’s sake, because they know not him that sent me.” The gospel is to be carried forward by aggressive warfare, in the midst of opposition, peril, loss, and suffering. But those who do this work are only following in their Master’s steps.—Lift Him Up, p. 298.\