---
title:  Appeal to the Unrepentant
date:  17/09/2026
---

In 2 Corinthians 12:14–13:10, Paul informs the church about his third visit (2 Cor. 12:14, 2 Cor. 13:1). He had shown that he is not ­inferior to any of the false apostles and is now confident to come to Corinth once again and try to restore unrepentant members. In fact, this was one of the primary purposes of this visit. All Paul did and spoke was meant for the edification of the church (2 Cor. 12:19).

`Read 2 Corinthians 12:20, 21. What sins were jeopardizing the spiritual condition of the Corinthian church?`

The list of sins in 2 Corinthians 12:20, 21 is similar to others found elsewhere in Paul’s letters (Rom. 1:29–31, Gal. 5:19–21). The first two items appear in 1 Corinthians 3:3, where Paul refers to jealousy and strife among the members in Corinth. Paul fears that things would not be too different by the time of his third visit. He says, “I fear that perhaps when I come I may find you not as I wish.” Conversely, he says, “You may find me not as you wish” (2 Cor. 12:20, ESV). This means that rather than dealing with them “by the meekness and gentleness of Christ” (2 Cor. 10:1, ESV), he would now be “ready to punish every disobedience” (2 Cor. 10:6, ESV).

His main concern is that those members who had been involved with “impurity, sexual immorality, and sensuality” may not have repented (2 Cor. 12:21, ESV). And it is sins such as these that cause divisions in the church.

Next, Paul focuses on the role of church discipline to restore those in sin (2 Cor. 13:1–4). Weakness is not an excuse for a sinful way of life. There is power available for those who want to live a victorious life (2 Cor. 13:4). The fact that some in Corinth practiced sexual sin is evidence that God’s power was not a reality in their lives. Paul wanted them to repent and experience the power that leads to obedience. Disciplining them was the last thing he wanted to do. He says, “We pray to God that you may not do wrong . . . , but that you may do what is right. . . . Your restoration is what we pray for” (2 Cor. 13:7–9, ESV). What a beautiful prayer! He asks them to examine themselves to see whether they are in the faith.

`Read 2 Corinthians 13:5. What does it mean to be in the faith? How can you know that you are in the faith?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Many who love self-indulgence and who murmur at the straight testimony of the Laodicean message, are ignorant of how sinful their actions really are; but in the judgment they will be ashamed of their course of ingratitude and rebellion against the One who has borne so long with them, and who has not cut them off in their sins. No confession, no weeping will then avail for those who have spoiled their record. Many who now claim to be the disciples of Christ, will be numbered among those who would not repent, but who have deceived their souls unto their eternal ruin. The evasion of truth will not give courage to any soul in the day of judgment to open his lips in self-defense. Then the books will be opened that bear the record of the works of every individual. . . .\
God has sent messages from His Word to the souls who are living careless lives, and who are unashamed of their wrong course of action. I heard the words spoken: “Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, My way is hid from the Lord and my judgment is passed over from my God? Hast thou not known? hast thou not heard, that the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary? there is no searching of his understanding” (Isaiah 40:27, 28). If the careless, self-indulgent souls would seek the Lord and confess their sins, they would see how their unconverted lives lead others astray, and they would repent and be converted. . . .\
God is constantly appealing to the human heart, bidding it recognize His love and mercy, and accept His righteousness in the place of the principles of evil. Thus He has pleaded with mankind in all ages. In Noah’s day Christ spoke to men through a human agency and preached to those who were in bondage to sin. He came to Israel enshrouded in a pillar of cloud by day and in a pillar of fire by night. He it was who educated that vast multitude in their wilderness wandering. . . .\
There are many who do not weigh these things sufficiently. The instruction given to Israel should be understood today by every soul living. Man may claim great intelligence, but he needs more than human intelligence in order to grasp the revelations of the gospel.­­­—This Day With God, p. 278.