---
title:  Further Thought
date:  18/09/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Laodicean Church,” p. 125, in The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, September 30, 1873.

“The Lord is guarding his people against a repetition of the errors and mistakes of the past. There have always abounded false teachers who, advocating erroneous doctrines and unholy practices, and working upon false principles in a most specious, covered, deceptive manner, have endeavored to deceive, if possible, the very elect.”—Ellen G. White, in The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, January 7, 1904.

“The Lord designs that our opinions shall be put to the test, that we may see the necessity of closely examining the living oracles to see whether or not we are in the faith. Many who claim to believe the truth have settled down at their ease, saying, ‘I am rich, and increased with goods, and have need of nothing.’ ”—Ellen G. White, Counsels to Writers and Editors, p. 36.

“Men entertain errors, when the truth is clearly marked out; and if they would but bring their doctrines to the word of God, and not read the word of God in the light of their doctrines, to prove their ideas right, they would not walk in darkness and blindness, or cherish error. Many give the words of Scripture a meaning that suits their own opinions, and they mislead themselves and deceive others by their misinterpretations of God’s word. As we take up the study of God’s word, we should do so with humble hearts. All selfishness, all love of originality, should be laid aside. Long-cherished opinions must not be regarded as ­infallible.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels to Writers and Editors, pp. 36, 37.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read 2 Corinthians 10:1–6 again. What is Paul’s strategy to face spiritual “wars” for God’s truth, and how can we apply it to our own spiritual wars?`

`The Bible says that before the end comes, many false teachers would try to lure people away from the truth. What can your local church do to prevent members from being persuaded by false teachers who might even be in your same church? Why is this so essential for the fulfillment of the church’s mission?`

`Why did Paul find it necessary to boast about a long list of sufferings (2 Cor. 11:16–33)? Also, what does it mean “to boast in the Lord”?`

`Why is it important for church members to examine themselves in order to see whether they are in the faith (2 Cor. 13:5)? What difference does it make?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Reflecting Christ, “Paul Warns Against ‘Tradition’ and ‘Philosophy,’ ” November 26, p. 344.\
The Upward Look, “We Cannot Do Without God,” May 28, p. 162.\