---
title:  Everyone Involved
date:  05/08/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 8**

**Everyone Involved**

In Leviticus 8 we learn that God values ministry and calls young and old alike to be active in His work. This chapter deals with Aaron, his sons, and their ordination for the priesthood, but we can never forget that because of the cross, all of God’s people are now priests (Ex. 19:6; 1 Pet. 2:5, 9). Ministry may be one of the most exciting values in the book of Leviticus!

The priests were responsible for leading worship and interceding in prayer for the people (2 Chron. 30:27). They also taught the Word of God and answered the people’s questions (Lev. 10:10, 11). Some even wrote and performed music. Most importantly, the priests were examples of what it means to be holy in one’s everyday life (Lev. 21:6–8).

According to the Bible, your pastor is supposed to help every member of their church get all the training they need to be effective ministers, servants, and priests (Eph. 4:11, 12), for we are to be “a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, His own special people” (1 Pet. 2:9). When pastors do their jobs well and the members cooperate, churches experience unity, maturity, and stability (Eph. 4:13–16). A church where most of the members are active in ministry and gospel mission is a church that experiences far less internal conflict and far more of Christ’s unifying presence!

What a wonderful opportunity God has given us to be trained by our pastors to effectively meet people’s spiritual needs not only in our local church but also in our local community! Let’s dive into Leviticus 8 and learn how to be an effective minister for God.

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 8:6–13, 23, 24 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Leviticus 8:6–10. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `