---
title:  Consecrated for Ministry
date:  06/08/2023
---

#### inGest

I attended a church not long ago that conducted a special service during which several members were publicly consecrated for ministry. Some were becoming elders, others deacons or deaconesses, and some were being set apart for various ministries. The entire congregation participated in prayers of blessing and thanks, and I heard many praising the Lord, especially when young people were being called. We see something similar happening to Aaron and his three sons in Leviticus 8. They were brought before the entire congregation and “consecrated” for ministry in a special service (vv. 2–5, 15, 30).

It’s interesting that Leviticus 8 sets such a high standard for God’s priests. They were supposed to be holy, or set apart from the world as living and breathing representations of God. Although Aaron was an older man at the time, his sons were young adults, so this is an appeal to both young and old. Paul put it like this in a letter to the young man Timothy, whom he was mentoring in ministry: “Let no one despise your youth, but be an example to the believers in word, in conduct, in love, in spirit, in faith, in purity” (1 Tim. 4:12). Like Paul and Moses, we need to raise the standard for excellence and holiness in youth ministry, not lower it!

This whole concept of being holy priests in every way is dramatically illustrated in Leviticus 8:22–25. Moses placed the blood of a sacrificed ram on the right ear, thumb, and toe of each of the priests. This signified that God wanted them to guard what they listened to and daily listen to His words (the ear), do what is right, living obediently to Him (the thumb), and go on His errands and engage in His work—to stand for what’s right even if that meant standing counterculturally (the toe). All these things were also yet another way of pointing forward to Jesus, who lived out each of these divine desires beautifully and perfectly.

Before you get discouraged and wonder how you could ever hope to reach this standard and be a holy priest in God’s church, notice what happens in Leviticus 8: Aaron and his sons are given every gift they need to be effective priests for God. They had to learn an incredible lesson that pastors today must learn as well: ministry is about humility. It’s about depending on God to give you the strength, gifts, wisdom, and character you need to rise to the challenge. Look at the following:

* The priests had to be washed; they could not wash themselves (v. 6).
* The priests had to be clothed; they could not clothe themselves (vv. 8, 9).
* The priests had to be anointed with oil; they could not anoint themselves (v. 12).
* The priests had to have the blood applied to them; they could not apply it themselves (vv. 22–25).

All this was to teach them their great dependence on God for effective ministry. Only God could wash and revive them (Titus 3:5), and only God could clothe them with His righteousness (Ps. 132:9). Only God could fill them with the oil of the Holy Spirit (Luke 4:18), and only God could provide His blood for their forgiveness and atonement.

**Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`What steps can we take to begin learning how to live in total dependence on God?`

`Who is mentoring you in ministry? Whom can you mentor in ministry?`