---
title:  Supernatural
date:  07/08/2023
---

#### inTerpret

In Revelation 1:5, 6 and 5:9, 10, we learn that the blood of Christ purchased not only our salvation but also our restoration as priests of God. We see an amazing connection between the cross and our calling to ministry. On Calvary what was taken from Adam and Eve in the Garden—namely, their priestly connection with God—was wonderfully and eternally restored! This is also a great reminder that as His priests, we must guard our ears, take care when and what we speak, and go only where His sandals lead. Ellen White put it like this: “As the Son of man, He gave us an example of obedience; as the Son of God, He gives us power to obey” (The Desire of Ages [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1898, 1940], p. 24).

Notice again that the priests were anointed with oil (Lev. 8:12, 30). Oil often symbolizes the Holy Spirit, who is an essential person in the Godhead. Yes, you read that right—a person. Jesus referred to the Holy Spirit using a personal pronoun many times in His ministry. Take some time to read John 14–16 this week and count how many times Jesus uses a personal pronoun (e.g., He, Him, His) to describe the Holy Spirit. When Jesus went to heaven, He did not leave us with a vague, mystical force, but with a divine and loving Person: the Holy Spirit!

It is the Holy Spirit who empowers our ministries and makes our efforts to glorify God fruitful (Acts 1:8; 10:38). It is also the Holy Spirit who gives us gifts to use in His service. These gifts are the very abilities of Jesus Himself. There are more than 20 different kinds of spiritual gifts in the New Testament, and you can read about them in several places in Scripture (Rom. 12; 1 Cor. 12; Eph. 4; 1 Pet. 4).

Every Christian has one or more of these supernatural endowments. The best way to discover your divine gift is to study the spiritual gifts in the Bible, get involved in various ministries in your local church and community (especially ones you have a passion for), and ask the Holy Spirit to reveal what your gifts are. He will show you! He often speaks through those who have observed you in action for Jesus. Another way to tell is to try different ministries and see if you grow and excel in that particular area. If it’s your gift, you will! By the way, it’s perfectly fine if you try something and it doesn’t end up fitting your gift. The key is to get active in your local church and community for Jesus. You can be sure that your gift as God’s minister and priest will become clear in time!

It is so important that we affirm people in ministry, especially our young people. This is the responsibility of not only the older generation but the younger generation as well. Be sure to give your peers a word of encouragement and appreciation, especially when you see them trying a new ministry that they seem particularly well equipped for. Better yet, get involved with them in ministry and affirm them by your actions.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What are some spiritual gifts you would like to try pursuing? What steps do you need to take to begin?`