---
title:  Past the Pastor
date:  09/08/2023
---

#### inVite

When studying the history of the Adventist Church, it quickly becomes apparent that we did not originally have settled, paid pastors as churches do today. Instead, paid pastors functioned as evangelists and church planters, such as the apostle Paul, moving freely through their designated areas, preaching and teaching the three angels’ messages and establishing new congregations (Russell Burrill, Revolution in the Church [Washington, D.C.: Hart Research Center, 1993], pp. 39–41). Since there were no settled pastors, the elders and deacons led the church. When reading about these two leadership positions as defined in the Bible, you will discover that in many ways, they had identical responsibilities to our modern paid pastors even though they were volunteer positions.

The awesome truth is that since pastoral ministry is described as a gift in the Bible and every member of the church is already a minister, there were already people within the congregation who had the gifts necessary to lead, evangelize, and provide nurture and care to others in the congregation. This freed up funds for the rapid expansion of the Adventist Church around the world. To put it simply, Jesus pastored the early Adventist churches through the gifts of the individual members! They were dependent not on a paid pastor who ministered to them, but on Jesus, who ministered mightily and effectively through them!

Perhaps you are in a church now where there is no pastor, or the pastor can come only occasionally. If this is your situation, your church is in a perfect place for Jesus, through the Holy Spirit, to use you and your fellow members to provide everything the church needs to care for one another and reach the local community with the gospel. In fact, your church may be very close to God’s original intent for the body of Christ. The Adventist Church has never grown faster than it did in the days when the members cared for the spiritual needs of the local church and community while the pastors trained the members for ministry, preached the three angels’ messages in unreached cities, and raised up new Adventist congregations.

After Aaron and his sons were anointed as God’s priests, they were given seven days to contemplate the great responsibility they were given. This was a time of self-reflection and prayer for God’s blessing on their ministry (Lev. 8:33–36). It is a high honor when your church invites you to take up your responsibility as a priest in an area of interest and within the realm of your gifts, and it would be good for you to take some time for prayer and reflection as well. Are there some areas in your life that need to come under Jesus’ lordship? Are there sins that need to be forsaken and forgiven? Is there training or are there resources you need to be effective? Take a week to get right with Jesus and remember that every priest needs to do this, not just you.

**Meditate on Leviticus 8 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`What is He saying to you personally through these texts?`

`What are some ways we can start to readopt the evangelistic approach of how the early Christian and early Adventist churches operated? Do you think we should?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`