---
title:  Ministry Unlocked
date:  10/08/2023
---

#### inSight

“Every year millions upon millions of human souls are passing into eternity unwarned and unsaved. From hour to hour our varied life opportunities to reach and save souls are opened to us. These opportunities are continually coming and going. God desires us to make the most of them. . . . A few more years at the longest, and the voice which we cannot refuse to answer will be heard saying, ‘Give an account of thy stewardship’ ” (Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1900, 1941], pp. 373, 374).

“The work of God in the earth can never be finished until the men and women comprising our church membership rally to the work, and unite their efforts with those of ministers and church officers” (Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1915], p. 352).

“If the proper instruction were given, if the proper methods were followed, every church member would do his work as a member of the body. He would do Christian missionary work. But the churches are dying, and they want a minister to preach to them. . . . They should be brought into working order, that the breath of God may come to them. They should be taught that unless they can stand alone, without a minister, they need to be converted anew, and baptized anew. They need to be born again” (Ellen G. White, Evangelism [Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald Pub. Assn, 1946], p. 381).

“Instead of keeping the ministers at work for the churches that already know the truth, let the members of the churches say to these laborers: ‘Go work for souls that are perishing in darkness. We ourselves will carry forward the services of the church. We will keep up the meetings, and, by abiding in Christ, will maintain spiritual life. We will work for souls that are about us, and we will send our prayers and our gifts to sustain the laborers in more needy and destitute fields’ ” (Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1948], vol. 6, p. 30).

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`

`After this week’s study of the passage, what remained with you personally?`

`What could be applied to others?`