---
title:  Peace and Agreement in the Church
date:   05/08/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 4:1–16; Ephesians 4:7–10; Ephesians 4:11–13; Ephesians 4:14.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Christ gave gifts to men. He gave to some [people] the gift to be missionaries [people who are sent to foreign countries to do religious work], some to be preachers, others [people] to be preachers who go from town to town. He gave others the gift to be church leaders and teachers. These gifts help His people work well for Him. And then the church which is the body of Christ will be made strong” (Ephesians 4:11, 12, NLV).

Paul uses the human body as a word picture to teach us a spiritual lesson (read Romans 12:3–8 and 1 Corinthians 12:12–31). The human body is made of many parts. Each part has a different job to do. All the parts must work together to keep the body healthy. The church is the same way. The church has many members. Each member has different skills. Each member has a different job to do in the church. All members must work together so that the church stays healthy. In Ephesians 4:1–16, Paul again uses the word picture of the body. Paul says that Jesus is now the “Head” or Leader of the church. As our Head, Jesus gives us gifts to help us work together in peace and agreement. Each member of the “body” or church works together to make the church strong.

Paul’s word picture of a healthy body helps us understand God’s plan for the church: God wants us to work together and to be at peace in Jesus.