---
title:  At Peace in the Spirit
date:   06/08/2023
---

`Read Ephesians 4:1–16. How does Paul encourage church members to be at peace and in agreement with each other?`

Paul starts the second half of Ephesians (chapters 4–6) with a special announcement. He asks church members to be at peace and in agreement with each other. Paul’s announcement has two parts. First, in Ephesians 4:1–6, Paul asks church members to be at peace with each other in the Holy Spirit. Paul gives members a list of seven things that helps the church to be at peace and in agreement with each other (Ephesians 4:4–6). Second, in Ephesians 4:7–16, Paul says that Jesus is the One who gives mercy to His people. Jesus’ mercy helps His people to know how to share the Good News with other people (Ephesians 4:7–10). Together, all the church members help the church stay healthy, grow strong, and become one in Jesus (Ephesians 4:11–16).

Paul starts Ephesians 4 with an invitation. Paul invites Christians to “live the way God’s people should live, because he chose you to be his” people (Ephesians 4:1, ERV). The word written as “live” in this verse also means “to behave” (read Ephesians 2:2, 10; Ephesians 4:17; Ephesians 5:2, 8, 15). When Paul says that we’ve been “chosen,” he means that God invites us to accept the Christian faith and follow it (Ephesians 1:18; Ephesians 2:4–6, 13). Paul wants our behavior to show God’s plan to save humans (Ephesians 4:9, 10). So, Paul asks us to do those things that lead to peace and agreement in the church (Ephesians 4:1–3). Paul also asks us to be (1) loving, (2) patient, and (3) without pride in our hearts.

Let’s look at these three behaviors.

**A humble heart.** Paul explains what it means to be humble or without any pride in your heart (Ephesians 4:2). Paul says that a humble person helps other people. A humble person also thinks other people are more important than himself (Philippians 2:3). Being humble and not having any pride in your heart doesn’t mean you feel that you have no worth (read Colossians 2:18, 23). Being humble means you see the worth in other people and you enjoy serving them.

**A loving spirit.** Paul also asks us to be gentle or loving (Ephesians 4:2). A gentle or loving spirit means being kind or nice.

**Being patient.** Finally, a patient person is someone who stays calm and is filled with faith during hard times.