---
title:  We are One in Christ Jesus
date:   07/08/2023
---

`Yesterday, we said that Paul gives members a list of seven things that helps the church to be at peace and in agreement with each other (Ephesians 4:4–6). What seven things are on Paul’s list?`

Let’s look at Paul’s list:

**1. One body.** Paul’s list starts with “one body” (Ephesians 4:4, ERV). The body is a word picture for the church (Ephesians 4:12, 16; Ephesians 1:23; Ephesians 5:23, 29, 30).

**2. One Spirit.** Read Ephesians 4:4.

**3. One hope.** Paul says that “God chose you to have one hope” (Ephesians 4:4, ERV).

**4. One Lord.** By these words, Paul means Jesus.

**5. One faith.** These words mean our Christian teachings (Ephesians 4:13; Colossians 1:23; Colossians 2:7; Galatians 1:23; 1 Timothy 4:1, 6).

**6. One baptism.** (Compare Ephesians 5:26.)

**7. One God and Father.** God is our Father. Anyone can accept God as Father. He controls everything (Ephesians 4:6).

What special Bible truth is Paul telling us about God? As our Father, God is the One who made us. So, Paul announces that God controls everything.

Paul teaches us two important ideas about peace and agreement in the church (Ephesians 4:1–6). First, peace and agreement come from the seven things on Paul’s list (Ephesians 4:4–6). Second, if we want peace and agreement in the church, we must do our part. We must work together with the Holy Spirit to help peace and agreement to grow in the church. We may fail at times. We may often cry about the mistakes we make as we try to make peace and agreement happen in the church. Whatever mistakes we make, we should be happy about God’s work in Jesus. God works in Jesus to make peace and agreement in the church (Ephesians 4:3). When we remember to be happy about God’s work, we will work harder to make peace and agreement happen. We will know that we are working together with God to do His work.

`Read again Ephesians 4:4–6. How do these verses make you feel? How should they make you feel when you remember that God accepts us because of Jesus?`