---
title:  Jesus, the Giver of Gifts
date:   08/08/2023
---

> <p></p>
> “But each one of us has received [gotten] a gift of grace [mercy]. These gifts are given to us by Christ. That is why Scripture [the Old Testament] says,
> <p></p>
> ‘When he [Jesus] went up to his place on high [in heaven], he took many prisoners. He gave gifts to his people’ [Psalm 68:18].
`“What does ‘he went up’ mean? It can only mean that he also came down to the lower, earthly [on earth] places. The one who came down is the same one who went up. He went up higher than all the heavens [skies and outer space]. He did it [went up to heaven] in order to [so that he could] fill all creation [everything He made]” (Ephesians 4:7–10, NIrV). What is Paul talking about in these verses?`

In Ephesians 4:7–10, Paul uses a quote from Psalm 68:18. This quote shows us that Jesus is the same as a mighty general who beats his enemies in war. After the war, the general goes to the hill where his capital city is built. The general takes prisoners with him from the war (read Psalm 68:1, 2). Then the general gets gifts from all the people who lost the war. Paul changes this word picture a little bit in Ephesians 4:7–10. In Paul’s word picture, Jesus is the One who gives gifts.

Do you see what happens first in Psalm 68:18? First, Jesus goes up to heaven after He wakes up from the dead (Ephesians 1:21–23). Then Jesus comes back to earth and gives gifts to His people. Jesus keeps all His promises. These word pictures are Paul’s way of showing us Pentecost. Pentecost is the time when God poured His Spirit on the church (read Acts 2). Paul tells us about this Bible truth in Ephesians 4:11, 12. These verses explain that the gifts Jesus gave His church are gifts from the Holy Spirit.

“Jesus went to heaven after He won. Jesus gave gifts to His followers. After Jesus went to heaven, God kept His promise. He sent the Holy Spirit to the church. The Spirit’s coming was the same as a mighty wind that filled the whole place where Jesus’ followers waited. What happened? Thousands of people accepted Jesus in a day.”—Ellen G. White, Ye Shall Receive Power, page 158, adapted.

`What comfort do you get from Ephesians 4:7–10? How do these verses show you what Jesus did for us?`