---
title:  Gifts From Jesus
date:   09/08/2023
---

`Paul uses Psalm 68:18 to show us that Jesus gives gifts to His people after He wakes up from the dead and goes to heaven. What gifts does Jesus give and why does He give them? Read Ephesians 4:11–13 for the answers.`

Paul names four groups of people that Jesus gave as “gifts” to the church. These groups include: (1) church leaders; (2) special messengers; (3) traveling preachers; and (4) shepherds or local church pastors and teachers. Jesus “gave all these people so that they might [may] prepare [help] God’s people to serve. Then the body of Christ [Jesus] will be built up [made strong]” (Ephesians 4:12, NIrV). Also, Jesus gave the gifts “so that we will all believe the one way and all know the Son of God. They [the gifts] are given so that we will be really grown-up Christians, like [the same as] Christ himself” (Ephesians 4:13, WE).

Ephesians 4:13 was important to the first Seventh-day Adventists. They had questions about the spiritual gifts of Ellen G. White. They asked, “Does the Bible say that special messengers lived only during New Testament times? Or will God continue to give special messengers to His church long after New Testament times? The first Adventists found the answers in Ephesians 4:13. The important rule in this verse can be shown in a picture story about a ship captain. The ship captain must follow the orders he got before he sailed. As the ship comes near port, the captain learns that a sea pilot will come on his ship to help lead it to port. The ship captain must allow the sea pilot to come aboard. The ship captain must obey the pilot. The pilot is a word picture for a messenger from God. The ship captain is a word picture for loyal Seventh-day Adventists. “Who will obey the sailing orders? Those people who reject the pilot? Or those people who accept him as they were ordered to do? You be the judge.”—Uriah Smith, “Do We Discard the Bible by Endorsing the Visions [of Ellen White]?” Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, January 13, 1863, page 52, adapted.

`Read Isaiah 5:4. In this verse the Lord says “ ‘What more was there to do for My grape-field that I have not done for it?’ ” (NLV). The grape-field is a word picture for God’s church. What gifts has God given our church? The writings of Ellen G. White are part of God’s gifts to us. How have her writings helped our church?`