---
title:  Becoming Better and Stronger Christians
date:   10/08/2023
---

`What danger keeps the church from growing strong? Read Ephesians 4:14 for the answer.`

Paul warns church members against false teachings and clever tricks. He says, “The body of Christ must grow so that we will no longer be like [the same as] children. We are like children when we are pushed [keep changing our minds] this way and that way [all the time]. We change our minds every time people bring a different teaching. Some teachers teach the lies of men and fool [trick] people so that they believe wrong things” (Ephesians 4:14, WE).

Paul believes that disagreement comes from false ideas. Bible truth makes the church grow strong and brings agreement. But false teachings and ideas make the church weak and cause separation. So, false teachings are evil. That is why church members must reject false teachings. They must accept Bible truth from teachers they can trust (Ephesians 4:11). Then the church will grow strong in Christ Jesus (Ephesians 4:12, 13; compare Ephesians 4:15, 16).

`In what ways is a healthy church the same as a healthy body? Read Ephesians 4:15, 16 for the answer.`

In Ephesians 4:1–16, Paul asks church members to do everything they can to be at peace and in agreement with each other. Yes, God promises us peace and agreement in the church (Ephesians 4:4–6). At the same time, we must work hard to make peace and agreement happen (Ephesians 4:3). One way we can make peace and agreement happen is by doing the work God gave each of us to do in the church (Ephesians 4:7–16). Each one of us is part of God’s church. So, we should do everything we can to support the church’s health and growth (Ephesians 4:7, 16). Also, God wants us to be blessed by the work He gave to church leaders, special messengers, traveling preachers, pastors, and teachers (Ephesians 4:11). All these members work together (Ephesians 4:16) and help us, as a church, to grow stronger together in Jesus, our Leader (Ephesians 4:13, 15).

`What are some of the false teachings that we must reject today? How can we stand against these false ideas?`