---
title:  Additional thought
date:   11/08/2023
---

The two comments below will help us better understand Ephesians 4:7–10:

**1. How to understand Ephesians 4:9.** Some Bibles say that Jesus came down to earth first before He went up to heaven (read ERV; ICB; NLV; KJV). Other Bibles say that Jesus went up to heaven and down to earth, but they don’t say which one of these things Jesus did first (read NIrV; WE). Psalm 68:18 helps us to understand what Paul means in Ephesians 4:9, as we saw in Tuesday’s study. In Psalm 68:18, Jesus first goes to heaven after He wakes up from the dead. Then Jesus comes to the earth in the Person of the Holy Spirit.

**2. The prisoners in Ephesians 4:8.** In Ephesians 4:8, Paul uses part of a quote from Psalm 68:18: “ ‘When Christ [Jesus] went up to heaven he took those [people] he had won with him’ ” (Ephesians 4:8, WE). Who are those people that Jesus won? The NIrV puts the verse this way: “he took many prisoners” (Ephesians 4:8, NIrV). Many Seventh-day Adventists understand this verse to mean that Jesus took to heaven the group of people who woke up from the dead when He did (Matthew 27:51–53). Jesus offers this group of people as a gift to His Father when He arrives in heaven’s courts (read The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 6, page 1022; The Desire of Ages, pages 785, 786). At the same time, Ephesians 4:8 also may mean that Jesus won the war against Satan and his evil angels (read Colossians 2:15). So, Satan and his evil angels are the same as Jesus’ prisoners.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Compare the list of “spiritual gifts” in Ephesians 4:11 with the lists in 1 Corinthians 12:4–11, 27–30; Romans 12:4–8; and 1 Peter 4:10, 11. What things are the same about the lists? How are they different?`

`Paul says that false teachings are the same as strong winds (Ephesians 4:14). Paul says that we shouldn’t let these winds control us or destroy us. How can we protect ourselves and other church members from false teachings?`

`In Ephesians, Paul talks a lot about the need for peace and agreement in the church. Should we always agree with each other? Is there a time when agreeing is the wrong thing to do? If yes, explain why and when we shouldn’t agree.`