---
title: From the Stormy Sea to the Clouds of Heaven
date: 2/15/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON:**

Daniel 7; 2 Thes-salonians 2:1–12; Mark 13:26; Matthew 8:20; Matthew 9:6; Luke 9:26.

> **MEMORY VERSE:** <p></p>
> “‘Then the authority [control], power and greatness [glory] of all the kingdoms on earth will be taken from them. And all they had will be given to the holy people of the Most High God. His kingdom will last [continue] forever. Every ruler will worship and obey him’” (Daniel 7:27, NIrV).

THIS WEEK, we will study the dream in Daniel 7. Daniel’s dream shows us the same truth as Nebuchadnezzar’s dream in Daniel 2. But Daniel’s dream gives us more information. (1) Daniel sees the sea. Wind stirs the water from every direction. The water helps us remember the earth before God gave it shape and filled it with life. At that time, the earth was empty and covered in darkness (read Genesis 1:2). In Daniel’s dream, the wind makes the water rough. (2) The animals in Daniel’s dream are mixed with other animals. They also are not clean. So, the animals in Daniel’s dream are not anything God made when He made the earth. (3) The animals take control of people and kingdoms on the earth. So, we can see that these animals steal the power that God gave to Adam. (4) Jesus, the Son of Man, comes and gives the kingdom back to the people it belongs to. Jesus wins back everything that Adam lost in the Garden of Eden.

This information helps us to see the big picture of the signs used in Daniel’s dream. An angel helps explain the most important parts so we can understand it.

Wind stirs the water from every direction. The water helps us remember the earth before God gave it shape and filled it with life.
