---
title:  Four Animals
date:   16/2/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the dream in Daniel 7. What is this dream about?`

Do you see how each animal in Daniel’s dream matches one of the metals in Nebuchadnezzar’s statue? In Daniel’s dream we get more information about each kingdom. As we said on Sabbath, the animals in Daniel’s dream are not clean. They are word pictures for nations that do not worship God. Also, the 1st three animals look the same as animals we already know. But the 4th animal is different. It does not look the same as any animal we know. Each animal shows us something about a different kingdom in history:

**Lion**: A lion is a good word picture for Babylon. Lions with wings covered the palace walls and were found in other art work. In Daniel’s dream, the lion’s wings are pulled off. Then the lion stands up the same as a man. The lion gets a human heart. These word pictures show us the evil behavior of the final kings of Babylon after Nebuchadnezzar.

**Bear**: The bear shows the Medo-Persian Empire. Do you see that the bear is raised up on one of its sides? That shows that the Persians were stronger than the Medes. The bear has three ribs in its mouth. Those ribs are the top three kingdoms that the Medo-Persian Kingdom beat in war: Lydia, Babylon, and Egypt.

**Leopard**: The leopard shows us the Greek kingdom started by Alexander. The leopard has four wings. They show that Alexander rose to power very fast. In a few years, Alexander controlled all the known kingdoms on earth.

**The Animal With Iron Teeth**: Do you see that Daniel says that the 1st three animals **look the same as** a lion, bear, or leopard? That changes. The 4th kingdom does not look the same as any kingdom before it. So, the animal that shows us the 4th kingdom is different from anything we know. The 4th animal has many horns. It is very mean. Its behavior is worse than the behavior of all the animals before it. This behavior makes the 4th animal a perfect word picture for the kingdom of Rome. Rome fought many wars. It stepped on kingdoms with its feet. In this way, it took control of the whole earth.

In Daniel’s dream, the lion’s wings are pulled off.
