---
title: The Little Horn
date: 2/10/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the little horn power in Daniel 7:7, 8, 19–25. The little horn power comes from the 4th animal and then continues to be part of it. Who is the little horn power?`

Yesterday, we saw that the animal with iron teeth is the kingdom of Rome during Bible times. Its iron teeth and brass claws show us that Rome acts very mean. Now we will look at the little horn power. Who is it? As we see in Daniel’s dream, the 4th animal has 10 horns. Three of the horns are pulled out to make room for the little horn. The little horn has human eyes. “Its mouth was always bragging” (Daniel 7:8, NIrV). It is clear that the little horn rises from the 4th animal, who is the Roman Kingdom during Bible times. In a way, the little horn continues doing the things the kingdom of Rome did. So, the little horn is really the same as the kingdom of Rome. So, the little horn is the kingdom of Rome at a later time in history.

Daniel sees the little horn make war against God’s people. The angel tells Daniel that the little horn is a king. He will do three things: (1) He will brag. He will say things against God. (2) He will hurt God’s people. And (3) he will try to change the times and the laws that God gave. When that happens, God’s people will be under his control for “ ‘a time, times, and half a time (three and a half years)’ ” (Daniel 7:25, NLV). The word “time” is the same as a “year.” So, “times” is the same as “two years” and “half a time” equals six months or half a year. So, how many real years does 3 1/2 years equal in a special message about time? When we use the year-day rule (Numbers 14:34; Ezekiel 4:5, 6), then 3 1/2 years equals 1,260 real years. During this time, the little horn will war against God. The little horn also will hurt God’s people and try to change God’s law.

`Read about the Man of Evil in 2 Thessalonians 2:1–12. Who do we believe the Man of Evil is, and why? How is he the same as the little horn?`

The little horn will war against God.
