---
title:  God’s Courtroom
date:   18/2/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`What does Daniel see next in his dream after the four animals and the little horn? Daniel sees a courtroom in heaven (Daniel 7:9, 10, 13, 14). Thrones are set up in the courtroom. Then God the Father sits down. Hundreds and thousands of angels serve God the Father. The members of the court sit down too. Then God opens the books of record.`

Do you see that God’s work as Judge happens after the 1,260 years are over? As we saw yesterday, the 1,260 years show the time that the little horn will do its work. That work happens from a.d. 538 to 1798 (read Friday’s study). So, God’s work as Judge happens **after** the 1,260 years but **before** God sets up His final kingdom. We see this information three times in Daniel’s dream:

- Little horn power (a.d. 538–1798)

- God’s work as Judge in heaven

- God’s everlasting kingdom

`Read about God’s work as Judge in Daniel 7:13, 14, 21, 22, 26, 27. How is God’s work as Judge in favor of His people?`

The Old Testament shows us several examples of God’s work as Judge in the wilderness and in His temple. But His work as Judge in Daniel is different. Daniel 7 shows God’s work as Judge over every human and power on earth. So, God will judge against the little horn. God also will give the kingdom to His people.

Daniel does not tell us exactly when God’s work as Judge will start or stop. But we see that God starts His work because of the little horn’s attack on His people. God’s work will be worldwide. In Daniel 8 and 9, we will learn when God’s work as Judge starts. We also will see that God’s work as Judge includes cleaning sin from the temple in heaven. So, Daniel 7 teaches us about God’s work as Judge in heaven before the Second Coming. We see that God’s work as Judge is good for His people too.

God will judge against the little horn.
