---
title: The Second Coming
date: 2/19/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the Son of Man in Daniel 7:13. Who is the Son of Man? How do you know? (For the answer, also read Mark 13:26; Matthew 8:20; Matthew 9:6; Luke 9:26; and Luke 12:8.)`

As God starts His work as Judge, a most important Person enters the courtroom. It is the Son of Man. Who is He? (1) The Son of Man is someone from heaven. But as His name also shows, there is something human about Him. He comes to take part in God’s work as Judge. (2) The Son of Man arrives with the clouds of heaven. These clouds are a word picture in the New Testament for the Second Coming. Do you see that in Daniel 7:13, the Son of Man does not come from heaven to earth? No, He moves from one place in heaven to another place in heaven. He comes in front of God the Father. (3) The Son of Man coming with heaven’s clouds shows us something important about the Second Coming. When the Son of Man comes back, everyone on earth will see Him. The clouds of heaven also help us remember the high priest, or holy leader, in the Old Testament. The high priest entered the Most Holy Place at the end of the year to remove sin from God’s temple.

The Son of Man also is a king. God the Father gives Him a kingdom and power. The Son of Man also gets glory and honor. “ ‘People from every nation [country] and language group will serve him’ ” (Daniel 7:14, ERV). The word “serve” also can be written as “worship.” We find this word nine times in Daniel 1–7 (Daniel 3:12, 14, 17, 18, 28; Daniel 6:16, 20; Daniel 7:14, 27). It means to give honor to God. That is why the little horn is so awful. It is a religious power that causes people to worship God in the wrong way. It replaces God’s work in heaven for us with the work of a human on earth. No human can take God’s place. God’s work as Judge shows us that He corrects this false worship. God shows that only the Son of Man can save humans. The Bible says, “There is one God. There is one Man standing between God and men. That Man is Christ Jesus” (1 Timothy 2:5, NLV).

No human can take God’s place.
