---
title: God’s Holy Ones
date: 2/20/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about God’s people in Daniel 7:18, 21, 22, 25, 27. What happens to them?`

The “holy ones of the Most High” (Daniel 7:18, NLV) is a name for God’s people. God’s holy people are loyal to Bible truth. That is why the little horn hurts them. The little horn is a word picture for the Roman Catholic Church. Yes, the kingdom of Rome (the 4th animal power) also hurts Christians. But in Daniel 7:25, the attacks against God’s people come from the little horn. The little horn rises to power only after the kingdom of Rome ends.

God’s people will not suffer forever. God’s kingdom will replace all the kingdoms on earth. Let us look at something interesting about the kingdom. In Daniel’s dream, we see that the Son of Man is given “authority [power], glory and a kingdom” (Daniel 7:14, NIrV). But what happens when the angel explains the dream to Daniel? The angel says that God’s “holy ones” get the kingdom (Daniel 7:18, NLV). Who is wrong? Daniel or the angel? Both are right! The Son of Man is God. He also is part of the human family. So, when He wins, then God’s people win too.

When the top religious leader asks Jesus if He is the Savior, Jesus answers: “ ‘I am. And in the future you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right side of the Powerful One. And you will see the Son of Man coming on clouds in the sky’ ” (Mark 14:62, ICB). So, Jesus is the One who stands for us in heaven’s court. He already beat Satan. He shares His victory with the people who come close to Him in their hearts. That is why there is no reason to fear. As Paul says so clearly: “In all these things we are more than winners! We owe it all to Christ [Jesus], who has loved us. I am absolutely [fully] sure that not even death or life can separate us from God’s love. Not even angels or demons, the present or the future, or any powers can separate us. Not even the highest places or the lowest, or anything else in all creation [everything God made on earth] can separate us” (Romans 8:37–39, NIrV) from God’s love.

“Not even death or life can separate us from God’s love.”
