---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   21/02/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**:

When the kingdom of Rome ended, the top holy leader of the Church in Rome made himself the top leader of the city of Rome. That happened in a.d. 538. Then the Roman Catholic Church and the old kingdom of Rome blended their power. So, the church’s holy leader, or pope, behaved the same as the Roman king in many ways. That is why the church controlled religion and governments. Then in 1798 Napoleon ended the church’s power. Napoleon’s attack against the Roman Catholic Church did not end Rome itself. But Napoleon’s war did end the church’s attacks on God’s people. So, the church’s power on the earth ended—but not its teachings. The church continued, then and now, to teach ideas that go against Bible truth. The church says that the pope stands in Jesus’ place on earth. The church brags that the pope has all Jesus’ power to be king and forgive sins. The church also brags that it changed the Sabbath to Sunday. One of the church’s many false teachings is purgatory. Purgatory is a place where the church says that people’s souls go after they die. They go to purgatory to suffer so they can be made good and clean. After they have suffered enough, God will let them in heaven. The church also teaches that humans should confess their sins to human priests, or holy leaders. But are not these holy leaders sinners too? Also, the church teaches the lie that you can earn your way into heaven by faith plus your good works and not by faith alone.

“In his own power, man cannot answer Satan’s attacks against him. Satan accuses man of wrongdoing. Man stands in front of God. Man wears clothes that are dirty with his own sins. He confesses his guilt. But Jesus is man’s Lawyer in heaven’s court. Jesus asks God to show mercy to everyone who has turned from sin to Him in faith. Jesus asks God to pardon these people and to remember everything He did for sinners on Calvary. That is how Jesus wins every time for us against Satan. Jesus’ obedience to God’s law was perfect. His perfect record gives Him all power in heaven and on earth. So, Jesus asks His Father to have mercy on guilty humans. Jesus brings humans back to God. . . . Zechariah 3:4.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 586, 587, adapted.

DISCUSSION QUESTION:

`1.	Look again at all the clear information we learned this week about the little horn. Why should this information help protect us from false ideas about who this power is?`

“Man wears clothes that are dirty with his own sins.”
