---
title:  “Comfort My People”
date:  13/02/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Isaiah 40:1, 2; Isaiah 40:3–8; Isaiah 40:9–11; Isaiah 40:12–31.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Zion, you are bringing good news to your people. Go up on a high mountain and announce it. Jerusalem, you are bringing good news to them [the people of God]. Shout the message loudly. Shout it out loud. Don’t be afraid. Say to the towns of Judah. “Your God is coming!” ’ ” (Isaiah 40:9, NIrV).

“WORLD WAR TWO ended in 1945. At that time, a Japanese soldier named Shoichi Yokoi hid in the jungle on the island of Guam. American planes dropped messages announcing peace. But Yokoi thought the Americans were trying to trick him. Yokoi was a loyal soldier. He made a promise to himself to never surrender to the enemy. Yokoi was not in communication with anyone. He lived on the food he found in the jungle. He had a hard life.

In 1972, hunters found Yokoi fishing. Then Yokoi learned the truth. The message of peace had been real. This was 27 years after the end of World War Two. All those years, the Japanese people enjoyed peace. But poor Yokoi knew only suffering during that time.”—Roy Gane, Altar Call (Berrien Springs, MI: Diadem, 1999), page 304, adapted.

Many hundreds of years earlier, God announced that the time of suffering for His people was over: “ ‘Comfort my people. Speak kindly to Jerusalem and tell her, “Your time of service is finished. You have paid the price for your sins” ’ ” (Isaiah 40:1, 2, ERV). Let us see what this means.