---
title:  Four Animals 
date:  14/02/2021
---

`In Isaiah 40:1, 2, God comforts His people. Their time of punishment is finished. What punishment is that?`

There are many answers to this question. (1) God used Assyria to punish His people. But then God saved Judah from Assyria by destroying the army of Assyria in 701 B.C. (Isaiah 37). (2) God used Babylon to punish His people too. The Babylonians carried away goods and people from Judah because of the sin of Hezekiah. Hezekiah showed off his riches to the messengers sent by Merodach-baladan (Isaiah 39). (3) God used another country to punish His people. Isaiah wrote messages about it (Isaiah 14–23).

It is interesting to see that Isaiah writes the words “Assyria” and “Assyrian(s)” 43 times from Isaiah 7:17 to Isaiah 38:6. But we read about this kingdom only one more time in the rest of the book of Isaiah. In chapter 52:4, Isaiah talks about Egypt and Assyria. He says that these countries hurt the people of God. At the end of his book, Isaiah also talks about how God will make His people free from Babylon (Isaiah 43:14; Isaiah 47:1; Isaiah 48:14, 20). God chooses Cyrus the Persian to beat Babylon in 539 B.C. Cyrus makes the people of God free (Isaiah 44:28; Isaiah 45:1; Isaiah 45:13).

Isaiah 1–39 shows what happens leading up to the time when the people of God are made free from the Assyrians in 701 B.C. At the beginning of Isaiah chapter 40, the book jumps ahead in time 150 years. Isaiah shows us the Jews who come back home to Jerusalem at that time, shortly after 539 B.C.

`Does Isaiah connect coming home from Babylon with anything you read about earlier in his book? If yes, what?`

Isaiah 39 gets us ready for the information in the rest of the book. Chapter 39 shows us what will happen in the future to the Jews. The Babylonians will carry them away (Isaiah 39:6, 7). Isaiah 13, 14, and 21 talk about the fall of Babylon and the freedom that will come to the people of God (Isaiah 14:1–4). Look at these verses. Do you see the close connection with Isaiah 40:1, 2? In Isaiah 40:1, 2, God promises His people He will end their suffering.

`What do the promises about the end of suffering mean to you? What value does our faith have without these promises?`