---
title:  The Gifts Of God 
date:  15/02/2021
---

`How do the people of God get comfort? For the answer, read Isaiah 40:1–8?`

A messenger announces that God is coming to show His glory (Isaiah 40:3–5). Another messenger announces that humans are much the same as leaves. They do not live very long. “ ‘But the word of our God lasts forever’ ” (Isaiah 40:8, ERV).

The Jews turned away from the gifts God gave His people at Mount Sinai. So, God punished them by sending them away to another country. After the Jews come back home, God gives back to them His gifts. What are His gifts? Himself and His word. These gifts are parts of God’s special agreement with His people (read Exodus 25:8, 16). The Jews broke the commandments of God. So, God left His temple (Ezekiel 9–11). But God will come back. He and His words bring comfort, freedom, and hope.

`What must the people do to get ready for the coming of the Lord?`

In Bible times, roads must be made smooth for kings. The bumps and rocks must be removed. So, the people must repair the road before the king comes. In the same way, the Jews must get the way ready for the Lord to come back. He will come from the east where He has been with His people in a strange land. The Lord has been a safe place for them in that strange land (Ezekiel 11:16). The hills east of Jerusalem are very rough. No bulldozer on earth is strong enough to smooth out those hills! Only God is powerful enough to “ ‘make the rough ground smooth’ ” (Isaiah 42:16, ERV). But God does not need a real road. He has a flying throne and many angels (Ezekiel 1, Ezekiel 9–11).

The New Testament says that John the Baptist does spiritual “roadwork” to get the people ready for Jesus (Matthew 3:3). John tells the people to turn from sin and be baptized (Matthew 3:2; Mark 1:4). So, the “roadwork” the people do to get ready for Jesus is to turn from sin. Then God can comfort them and forgive them. He can be with them.

Jeremiah 31:31–34 announces the same spiritual message to the Jews. He tells them what spiritual “roadwork” they need to do to invite God into their hearts. God promises to put His law in their hearts. He promises to be their God.