---
title:  Sharing The Good News 
date:  16/02/2021
---

`What is happening in Isaiah 40:9–11?`

In Isaiah 41:27 and Isaiah 52:7, a male messenger announces good news for Jerusalem. In Isaiah 40:9, ERV, a messenger on a mountain announces: “ ‘Look, here is your God!’ ” The Hebrew language shows us that this messenger is a woman.

In Psalm 68, David praises God. “God provides [gives] homes for those [people] who are lonely. He free people from prison and makes them happy” (Psalm 68:6, ERV). David is talking about what God did to save His people from slavery in Egypt. But Isaiah uses these same ideas to show how God frees His people from being prisoners in Babylon.

The New Testament shows how Isaiah 40:3–5 helps us see the work John the Baptist does. He makes the way ready for Jesus to come.

Before John, other people talk about the coming of Jesus. Two of these people are Simeon and Anna. They meet baby Jesus at the temple (Luke 2:25–38). Simeon and Anna help us remember the two messengers in Isaiah who are also a man and a woman. God promises Simeon that before he dies, he will meet Jesus. Jesus is the comfort and hope that God will send His people (Luke 2:25, 26).

Isaiah 40:9–11 helps us understand Anna too. Anna is a special messenger from God, the same as the woman in Isaiah 40:9. Anna is the very first person to announce in public at the temple mountain to the people of Jerusalem that Jesus has come. “Anna was there when Joseph and Mary came to the Temple. She praised God and talked about Jesus to all those [people] who were waiting for God to free [save] Jerusalem” (Luke 2:38, ERV). The work of announcing the good news about Jesus starts with Simeon and Anna. Jesus comes to save us. Later, Jesus gives another woman, Mary Magadalene, the first message about the resurrection. The resurrection is the good news about waking up from the dead (John 20:17, 18). Mary helped to share this message with His followers. They shared this message everywhere on the earth. Their work helped the good news to become a success.

`Look at Isaiah 40:11. What word pictures do you see in this verse? Talk about how Jesus has been the same as a Shepherd to you. Write a paragraph about how He has led you and cared for you. Why is it good to remember these things?`