---
title:  'Jesus: The Lord Of Mercy '
date:  17/02/2021
---

`What does Isaiah 40 teach us about the mercy and power of God?`

In Isaiah 40, the mercy and power of God are often blended together as if they are one idea. Why does Isaiah do that? Both of these things are important. God must have both so that He can save His people. God wants to save them because His heart is filled with mercy. He can save His people because He is powerful.

Isaiah starts by talking about the power of God. He is full of glory. He lives forever (Isaiah 40:3–8). Isaiah talks some more about the power of God and His wisdom (Isaiah 40:12–17). The writing style of Isaiah in these verses helps us remember the words of God to Job (Job 38–41). Both Isaiah and Job ask questions and use beautiful word pictures. They also talk about the earth and its parts.

`What is the answer to Isaiah’s questions: “ ‘Can you compare God to anything? Can you make a picture of God?’ ” (Isaiah 40:18, ERV).`

For both Isaiah and Job the answer is No. God cannot be compared to anything. Then Isaiah talks about how many people in his time make idols or statues of gods. These statues show that they think God is the same as an idol (Isaiah 40:19, 20).

Isaiah says this is a foolish idea. No idol can show us who God is. Isaiah wants to be sure that people understand that this idea is very silly. So, he talks about how no one is the same as God. Why? Because God made us.

`How does Isaiah 40:27 show the thoughts and feelings of the people that Isaiah talks to? In what ways are we guilty of having the same thoughts and feelings?`

The message of God is a message of comfort. He gives it to Isaiah to bring comfort to the people who need it. Sometimes when we suffer, we get confused ideas about God and His love. Then we get discouraged the same as Job. That is why God gives us messages of comfort and hope.