---
title:  The Problem With Worshiping False Gods 
date:  18/02/2021
---

Our worship of false gods destroys our friendship with God. When we worship false gods, we replace God with something else (Exodus 20:4, 5; Isaiah 42:8). Special messengers from God say that worshiping false gods is the same as spiritual “adultery” (Jeremiah 3:6–9; Ezekiel 16:15–19). When people cheat on their husbands or wives, that is adultery. Spiritual adultery is our “cheating” on God.

`Read Isaiah 41:29. What does Isaiah say about statues of false gods? What do his words mean to you personally? Why does this message about false gods show us the truth about any false god?`

People in Bible times believed they worshiped real gods when they worshiped carved statues of them. But this worship breaks the first commandment: “ ‘You must not worship any other gods except me’ ” (Exodus 20:3, ERV). What if someone made a carved statue to show God Himself? This is what the Israelites did with the gold calf (Exodus 32:4, 5). Then the Lord refuses to accept the carved statue. This carved statue will not show who the Lord is. No one knows how to make something that shows God (Deuteronomy 4:15–19). Nothing can show the glory of God and His power. So, a carved statue is really another god. When people worship it, they break the first and second commandments.

The people of God do not need carved statues. They have the light of His glory with them in the temple. So, when the people of God worship a carved statue, they turn away from the real God.

`What false gods do we as Christians often worship today? Are these false gods hard to see in the church at times? Why do you think that is so?`

“Many who say they are Christians serve other gods and not the Lord. Jesus made us. He asks that we love Him only. He asks that we put Him first in everything. Anything that reduces our love for God becomes an idol. Anything that gets in the way of our serving Him is also an idol.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 2, pages 1011, 1012, adapted.