---
title:  Further Thought
date:  19/02/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Behold Your God!” in Prophets and Kings, pages 311–321.

“In the time of Isaiah, humans do not understand God. Their ideas about God are wrong. Satan works for a long time to cause people to think that the Lord who made them is also the One who causes sin, suffering, and death. Satan fools some people. They think God is mean and not fair. These people think God waits for them to make mistakes so that He can blame and scold them. These people believe that God does not want to accept sinners. They believe God will use any excuse He can to get out of helping people in need. Satan lies about the law of love. This is the law of heaven. Satan says that the law of love limits human freedom. Satan says the law of love is a heavy load. Men should be glad to escape from it. Satan says that humans cannot obey the law of love or any of its important rules. Satan also says that God punishes anyone who breaks His law. And His punishments are not fair.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 311, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Explain in your own words the message of Isaiah 40:12–31. Write down your words. Use modern word pictures that show the power of our God. (Hint: you may want to include examples of discoveries from science that show that our God is wonderful!) Share your paragraph with the class.`

`Isaiah says that the Word of God continues forever. But human life is very short (Isaiah 40:6–8). How does this message help you not to be afraid of dying? How does it give you hope in the resurrection (Job 19:25–27; Daniel 12:2; 1 Corinthians 15:51–57; 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18)? The resurrection is the time when God will wake up the dead at the Second Coming.`

**Summary**: God sends Isaiah messages of comfort to give to His suffering people. Their time of trouble ends. Now God will come back to them. So, they should not be confused or sad. They can trust God to use His power to help them.