---
title:  Positional and Practical
date:  16/09/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 19**

**Positional and Practical**

Before we begin our study, we must remember that holiness is both positional and practical (Warren Wiersbe, Be Holy: Becoming “Set Apart” for God [Colorado Springs, CO: David C. Cook, 2010], p. 9), for when we put our faith in Jesus and get baptized, the Bible says we are in a spiritual and very real sense included “in Christ” (Gal. 3:26, 27). In other words, because He is holy and we are positionally in Him, we are holy as well. You can never be holier than you are in Jesus (Eph. 1:4; Col. 1:22; Heb. 10:14). Let that sink in! The gospel tells us that God replaces our unrighteousness with His holiness when we put our trust in Christ.

Being positionally in Jesus makes us holy in a practical way, from the inside out. Not only do we live in Jesus, but He lives in us through the Holy Spirit as well! Holiness, then, is God’s work for us and in us through sanctification, which is the process of being made holy or like Jesus. We know this is happening in our lives when we begin to have holier thoughts, holier motives, holier plans, and when living for Jesus and serving Him becomes desirable and satisfying.

Our responsibility is to surrender ourselves to the Lord every day and cooperate with what He is doing in and through us. God teaches us how to live holy lives for Him through Scripture (2 Tim. 3:16, 17), and Leviticus 19 provides some pointed examples of how to do it. This chapter is all about living practically in this world because we are positionally holy in Christ. God provides specific examples of how we can be holy in our relationships with others, some of which are our parents, the poor, the rich, the blind, the deaf, the elderly, employees, neighbors, immigrants, the opposite sex, land, and even animals. This entire chapter is about Jesus manifesting Himself in us through practical holiness.

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 19 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Leviticus 19:11–18, 28–37. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `