---
title:  Sundry Holiness
date:  17/09/2023
---

#### inGest

_Parents_

Secular entertainment often portrays parents as naive, hypocritical, closed-minded, and immature—obstacles to overcome rather than springboards to a young person’s success in life. Assuming that the parents fear God and raise their children according to His instructions, nothing could be further from the truth. In Leviticus 19, biblical holiness is a call to “show great respect for your mother and father” (v. 3, NLT). Holiness is first and foremost reflected in the homelife starting with the parental relationship.

_Rich and Poor_

God calls on those who own property and who use it for business purposes to be holy by leaving some of the crop behind for those who are poor to glean (vv. 9, 10; see also Deut. 24:21). Notice that those who are poor had an opportunity to be holy as well. They did not get food delivered to their door for free; they went out and gleaned what the farmer had left for them. Holiness is about not only sharing what we have with those in need but also working hard and providing as best we can for ourselves and our families.

_Justice_

Holy people never corrupt justice, but instead make it unconditionally available to all. Verse 15 teaches that justice should be administered to those who are rich as well as those who are poor. In other words, disparity of wealth should have no bearing on the verdicts given in a court of law. Justice that delivers a verdict based on sympathy for poor persons or fear of rich ones always leads to corrupt justice.

_Spiritualism/The Occult_

God wants His holy people to stay away from spiritualism in all its forms (vs. 26–31). Drinking blood, talking with the dead, tattooing the body, prostitution, and child sacrifice were frequent pagan practices in the days when Leviticus was written. These things still happen in occult gatherings today, but are also often publicized on a global level through music, movies, and books. God’s holy people will have nothing to do with spiritualism in any of its forms.

_Elderly_

In verse 32 we learn that God’s holy people are to treat elderly persons among them with deep respect. Sadly, some cultures promote ageism – favoring youth and beauty above age and experience. Regardless of culture, God’s holy people will honor the presence of the older generation and learn from their experiences. The healthiest churches are those with strong cross-generational relationships that blend the energy and daring spirit of youth together with the experience and wisdom of seniors.

_Immigrants_

In verses 33 and 34 God’s holy people are reminded to show love to the immigrants among them. Not only are they to not “mistreat” them, they are to love foreign individuals as much as they love themselves. In Matthew 25 the Bible differentiates saved individuals from lost persons by how well they treated those who are foreign: “I was a stranger and you took Me in” (v. 35).

_Integrity_

This chapter also displays holiness through integrity (Lev. 19:35, 36). Be holy in public as well as in private. And according to Leviticus, integrity is doubly important when it comes to working with blind people, deaf people, immigrants, and those living closest to you. Taking advantage of people who are vulnerable to exploitation puts you in real danger with God. Holy people fear God and live by a principle of strict integrity (vv. 13, 14, 34).

**Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`Which areas in your life need holiness?`

`Which areas in society need holiness?`