---
title:  Disputed Laws of Leviticus
date:  18/09/2023
---

#### inTerpret

There are some interesting passages in Leviticus 19 that are real debate starters, and that’s OK! It is not necessary that we understand everything in Scripture, just the things God wants us to. Sometimes we have to simply trust His wise and good heart. This does not mean we shouldn’t try to understand (2 Tim. 2:15), but we should not be discouraged or humiliated when we don’t have the answers for everything.

Leviticus 19:19 is one such passage that causes much debate and stands out as unique for its time. There are various interpretations for what was meant by not allowing mixing in cattle breeding, seeds, or clothing (cf. Deut. 22:9–11). Some may argue that if this law is no longer important to keep, we cannot be sure the others have not become obsolete as well. We must exercise discernment and scholarship when studying Leviticus, comparing the teachings of the Old Testament with those of the New Testament to discover which laws are still applicable to us today. We must also be careful not to build a doctrine on just one passage of Scripture, especially if its meaning is not clear to the modern reader. What we do know is that God drew strong boundaries around certain holy mixtures such as the mixture of anointing oil and the incense (Ex. 30:32, 37, 38). These special mixtures for the sanctuary were never to be imitated in any way outside the holy sanctuary. The high priest’s holy garments included another mixture of intricately designed colors and linens (Ex. 28:2, 5, 8). The law prohibiting certain mixtures in clothes prevented people from counterfeiting the uniform of the high priest. Such laws kept the two domains separated between the holy functions of the priesthood and the common person at home. Without a Levitical sanctuary on earth today, these laws no longer apply.

Another commonly disputed item is whether Christians should get tattoos (Lev. 19:28). Yes, Christians should most definitely get tattooed, but with God’s kind of tattoo! The Holy Spirit will gladly give you one, and His tattoo will grow clearer and more beautiful the longer you have it! In 2 Corinthians 3:3 the apostle Paul tells us about God’s kind of tattoo: “Clearly you are an epistle of Christ [a letter written by Christ], ministered by us, written not with ink but by the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone but on tablets of flesh, that is, of the heart.” These things will be far more beneficial to you than any ink you might add to your bodily temple (1 Cor. 6:19).

The reason Leviticus 19 forbids God’s holy people from being tattooed is that it identifies them with the world. Doesn’t the Bible say, “Whatever you do, do all to the glory of God” (1 Cor. 10:31)? Does God get more glory from a tattooist or from His Spirit writing the attributes of Jesus on your heart and making them visible in your life? The theme of this week is holiness, and its simplest definition is to be “set apart” from the world.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What are other debated or disputed passages in Leviticus that you can think of that point to separation from the world?`