---
title:  Obscured and Revealed
date:  20/09/2023
---

#### inVite

As with every other chapter in Leviticus, Jesus is present in chapter 19. He can be found in the law that commands those who harvest crops to leave some behind for poor individuals instead of gleaning thoroughly (Lev. 19:9, 10). Amazingly, this command made it possible for Jesus to come and save the world, a fact that becomes clear when we read the book of Ruth and discover how Boaz’s obedience of this law made it possible for Jesus’ lineage to continue. If Boaz had harvested everything from his fields and not left any behind for those who had little, Naomi and Ruth might have starved to death. This would have halted or significantly altered Jesus’ lineage as found in Matthew 1:1–5, which came through Ruth!

One of Jesus’ most significant Old Testament quotes came directly from Leviticus 19! Jesus quoted from the 19th verse of this chapter when he said “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” He included this commandment among the greatest! “There is no other commandment greater than these” (Mark 12:31). There was nothing that Jesus would rather have his listeners study, comprehend, and practice than the Leviticus 19 law to love your neighbor as yourself. A closer study of this law in its context will challenge us to relate to each other in more Christ-like ways.

Jesus is revealed clearly in Leviticus 19:21, 22, where we are given an example of how Jesus, who is both our priest and ram sacrifice, forgives us for harming others with our sins. We live in a world that wants to divide people into oppressed and oppressor, but the Bible tells us that we have all sinned and therefore have all wronged our fellow humans. In other words, we are all both the victim and the victimizer.

However, when we come to Christ in repentance, sincerely sorry for hurting our brother or sister and ready to make things right when possible, Jesus, by His blood and intercession as our High Priest in heaven, is more than willing “to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness” (1 John 1:9; see also Lev. 19:22).

The good news of the gospel is that Jesus not only takes the sins of the victimizer (you and me) upon Himself but also becomes a close and compassionate friend to those who have been victimized. Jesus knows how we feel regardless of what we’ve been through, and He longs to comfort us so we can turn and comfort others (2 Cor. 1:4). Though Jesus may seem to be hidden in the Old Testament, He appears clearer and clearer the more we understand it in light of the New Testament.

**Meditate on Leviticus 19 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`How does the knowledge that God is orchestrating your life for a higher purpose just as He did with Ruth affect your relationship with Him?`

`Is there someone in your life who needs the comfort of a friend? What can you do to help them?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`