---
title:  An Inheritance Incorruptible
date:   01/04/2017
---

### An Inheritance Incorruptible

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Pet. 1:1, 2; John 3:16; Ezek. 33:11; 1 Pet. 1:3–21; Lev. 11:44, 45; 1 Pet. 1:22–25.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Now that you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth so that you have sincere love for each other, love one another deeply, from the heart” (1 Peter 1:22, NIV). 

Whenever one studies the Bible, particularly focusing on one book or even a section of a book, a few questions need to be answered, if possible.

First, it would be good to know who the intended audience was. Second, perhaps even more important, it would be good to know what the precise reason for the writing was. What was the particular issue (if any) that the author wanted to address (such as Paul’s writing to the Galatians in regard to the theological errors being taught about salvation and the law)? As we know, much of the New Testament was written as epistles, or letters, and people usually write letters in order to convey specific messages to the recipients. 

In other words, as we read Peter, it would be good to know, as much as possible, the historical context of his letter. What was he saying, and why? And of course, most important of all: What message can we (to whom, under inspiration, it was written, as well) take from it? 

And as we will soon see, even in the first few verses, Peter has a lot of important truth to reveal to us today, centuries removed from when he wrote.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, April 8._
