---
title:  Key Themes
date:   04/04/2017
---

### Key Themes 

`Read 1 Peter 1:3–12. What is Peter’s main message in these verses?`

In his greeting to his readers in 1 Peter 1:1, 2, Peter already has mentioned the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit (1 Pet. 1:2). The three members of the Godhead form the subject of 1 Peter 1:3–12. The Father and the Son are the topic of 1 Peter 1:3–9, and the Holy Spirit is prominent in 1 Peter 1:10–12.

As he writes about the Father and Son and the work of the Holy Spirit, Peter introduces many of the themes that he will come back to.

Christians, Peter begins (1 Pet. 1:3; see also John 3:7), have been born anew. Their whole lives have been transformed by Jesus’ resurrection and the extraordinary inheritance that awaits Christians in heaven (1 Pet. 1:3, 4). Here, as in so many other places in the New Testament, the resurrection of Jesus is key to the Christian hope. 

This hope gives Christians a reason to rejoice, despite the fact that many of those reading 1 Peter are suffering. This suffering tests and refines their faith, just as fire tests and refines gold. Even though Peter’s readers have not seen Jesus during His earthly ministry, they love Him and believe in Him. And the outcome of their faith in Him is salvation and the promise of “an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you” (1 Pet. 1:4, NKJV).

Peter also lets them know that the prophets of old had predicted the “grace that would come to you” (1 Pet. 1:10). The prophets of the Old Testament “inquired and searched” (1 Pet. 1:10, NKJV) about the salvation that these people were now experiencing in Jesus. 

As they suffer persecution for their faith, Peter points out that they are part of a much wider conflict between good and evil. In the end, he is seeking to help them stay faithful to the truth, even amid trials.

`First Peter 1:4 says that there is an inheritance “reserved in heaven for you.” Think about that on a personal level; there is a specific place reserved in heaven just for you, personally. Then how should you personally respond to this wonderful promise?`