---
title:  Further Thought
date:   07/04/2017
---

#### Further Thought

Read Ellen G. White, “Christ the Way of Life,” pp. 365–368; “Perfect Obedience Through Christ,” pp. 373–376, in Selected Messages, book 1.

It’s amazing how rich and deep this first chapter of Peter is and how much ground it covers. Peter begins his epistle with a meditation on the character of the Godhead, bringing in the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The Father has provided a Savior in His Son, Jesus Christ, and we are elected in Him for sanctification and obedience. We come to love Jesus, and in Him we rejoice with exalted joy because, through His death and resurrection, we have the promise of an “inheritance incorruptible” in heaven. Even amid trials, then, we can rejoice greatly in the salvation offered us in Christ. “His [Peter’s] letters were the means of reviving the courage and strengthening the faith of those who were enduring trial and affliction, and of renewing to good works those who through manifold temptations were in danger of losing their hold upon God.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 517. Meanwhile, the Holy Spirit worked through the prophets to describe the days in which Peter and his readers live. As a consequence, Christians should live holy lives, filled with obedience to the truth, in communities that are characterized by the kind of love that comes from a “pure heart.”

#### Discussion Questions:

`In class, go over your answers to the question at the end of Wednesday’s study: What motivates us to be Christians? What do your answers share in common? How do they diverge?`

`Twice in this first chapter (1 Pet. 1:3, 21), Peter brought up the resurrection of Jesus. What is it about the Resurrection that is so crucial to our faith?`

`Peter talked about an “inheritance incorruptible” (see also Dan. 7:18). What does that mean? Think about all the things in this world and this life that fade away or that can be destroyed instantly. What should this tell us about how wonderful our promised inheritance really is?`

`How can our faith grow amid trials? That is, what choices can we make to help us to learn from the things we suffer?`