---
title: 'Sovereign Ruler of the Universe'
date: 21/12/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Ezekiel 33

**Sovereign Ruler of the Universe**

The conquest of Canaan in the book of Joshua is one of the major objections that skeptics bring against Christianity. Some atheists use the stories to paint God as an angry, vengeful, bloodthirsty monster. Even Christians don’t always know what to do with this story. Some Christians are so embarrassed or challenged by it that they would rather pretend it doesn’t exist, preferring to hang out in the New Testament and avoid Joshua and other thorny passages in the Old Testament altogether. Many conclude that it’s impossible to reconcile the Old Testament God of judgment and conquest with the New Testament God of love.

When considering how the book of Joshua reconciles with the rest of Scripture, we must recognize that the judgment and destruction that took place on a local level in the book of Joshua is only a microcosm of the much larger judgment and global destruction predicted in the New Testament. The apostle Paul warned that the day is coming when the Lord Jesus will send His mighty angels in flaming fire to take “vengeance on those who do not know God, and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ” (2 Thess. 1:8). Paul assured the early church believers that the Lord will completely destroy the wicked when He comes in that day (vv. 9, 10). In view of God’s final judgment, Paul urged believers not to follow the antichrist, “whom the Lord will consume with the breath of His mouth and destroy with the brightness of His coming” (2:8). From the first book of the Bible to the last, God is identified as the Judge of all the earth (Gen. 18:25; Rev. 19:11). God is the sovereign Ruler of the universe. This world and everything in it belong to Him. He alone has the power and authority to rule and direct as He chooses.

As established in lesson 1 of this quarter, Joshua and his armies became God’s instrument by which He carried out the Divine decrees He had determined against the Canaanites because of their incredibly evil practices and degraded condition. We must remember that these wars happened in a theocracy, where God was communicating directly with His leaders, Moses and Joshua.

God has not established an earthly government under His direct control since the nation of Israel. Nothing is more tyrannical than human governments who claim the prerogatives that belong to God alone. It would’ve been unthinkable for Moses or Joshua to institute a false theocracy to support their own personal authority. The nation of Israel respected the theocracy because they saw how God appeared to Moses on Mount Sinai and appointed Joshua to succeed him. It is extremely dangerous when ambitious pretenders claim God-like authority to accomplish their own goals.

Those who accept God’s role as the sovereign Ruler of the universe and the Judge of all the earth must decide whether they trust Him to be fair to all and to use His authority and power appropriately. Even when bringing judgment against the Canaanites, God looked for anyone who was open to receiving His mercy. Lessons 1, 7, and 8 of this quarter explore God’s mercy in saving Rahab and her family as well as protecting the Gibeonites. Many people are concerned that God’s judgments against the Canaanites included killing innocent people. However, God’s judgments were surgical, carefully protecting anybody who could be saved.

The story of God’s interactions with the Israelites and the Canaanites in Ezekiel 33 demonstrates His commitment to show no partiality to anyone. God’s punishment of sin was just as certain against His own covenant people as it was against the heathen Canaanites. God did not punish one nation’s debasing practices while excusing another nation’s. The same abominations that caused God to bring the sword against the Canaanites in Joshua’s time led Him to bring the sword against the Israelites in Ezekiel’s time.

### inScribe

_Write out Ezekiel 33:11–19 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map all of Ezekiel 33._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `