---
title: 'God’s Impartial Judgments'
date: 22/12/2025
---

### inGest

Ezekiel was a prophet during the time God sent the sword, famine, and pestilence against His people for breaking their covenant with Him by committing many abominations with their idols (Ezek. 6:11, 12). Their idol worship involved the same evil customs that the Canaanites had practiced, including sexual immorality and burning their children in the fire as sacrifices (23:37). To make matters worse, the Israelites dishonored God’s name by continuing sanctuary worship and Sabbath keeping at the same time as they practiced the worst sorts of evil (vv. 38, 39). Israel’s corruption had reached a point where God had to intervene, just as He had with the Canaanites in the book of Joshua. As with the story of the conquest, some people were saved from God’s judgment. Not all of God’s people had become corrupt. God had a remnant in Judah who remained faithful. Ezekiel was one of the people whose life was spared from destruction when he was taken as a captive to Babylon.

From Babylon, Ezekiel wrote of God’s judgment and mercy and His commitment to be impartial and fair. He described God holding the righteous accountable for their sins just as surely as He forgives the wicked when they repent of theirs. In Ezekiel 33:11, the prophet revealed the incredible agony in God’s heart: “ ‘As I live,’ says the LORD GOD, ‘I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn, turn from your evil ways! For why should you die, O house of Israel?’ ” God delays judgment as long as He can. God looks for every possible way to show mercy. He pleads again and again for sinners to turn from their wicked ways so He can save them.

God’s judgments never reveal a lack of care for people. On the contrary, because God cares for people, He must intervene when the degradation of sin reaches a certain level. However, even after God announces judgment against the wicked, He’s still willing to reverse His judgments the moment a sinner repents (Ezek. 33:14–16). With the Canaanites, with Israel, and with us, God is “longsuffering toward us, not willing that any should perish but that all should come to repentance” (2 Pet. 3:9). God does everything possible to save His children—all of His children.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`What does God’s heart feel when sinners are destroyed? Have you ever felt anything similar?`