---
title: 'Spiritual Wars'
date: 23/12/2025
---

### inTerpret

The book of Joshua contains some challenging scenes. A holy war where God instructs His people to destroy another group of people is difficult to understand, but it’s important to remember that these Old Testament wars were part of the cosmic struggle between good and evil. Exodus 12:12 indicates that the plagues in Egypt were judgments against the gods of Egypt, not primarily against the people. The religion of Egypt produced a very corrupt and immoral society. The myths and legends of their many gods were full of violence and perversion that normalized incest, rape, mutilation, dismemberment, and murder. Their artwork and literature depicted their gods as unrestrained, lustful beings that indulged in sexual acts with one another, with people, and with animals. Egyptian religion also promoted witchcraft, sorcery, and communication with the dead, which put them in close partnership with the dark beings of the supernatural world. Their idol worship was really a front for offering sacrifices to demons (Deut. 32:17). The people’s morals could never rise above the debased character of the gods they worshiped.

Like Egypt, the Canaanite nations engaged in idolatry that encouraged the most inhumane practices: child sacrifice, temple prostitution, bestiality, and a host of other reprehensible rituals. The Bible provides only a limited view of the extent of the “wickedness of these nations” that caused God to require accountability (Deut. 9:4). When we read of God’s judgments, we must decide if we’re willing to accept the reasons Scripture provides and if we’ll trust God with any parts of the story that are not revealed (29:29).

Because the war against the gods of Egypt was primarily spiritual, there was no need for military conflict for God to deliver His people. God fought for Israel through the plagues and the Red Sea crossing. The Israelites never drew a sword against the Egyptians. This was the precedent God set for His people. If Israel had been faithful, the conquest of Canaan would have required no warfare. God desired to deliver the land of Canaan into their hands in the same miraculous way that He delivered them from Egypt (Deut. 7:19). God’s original purpose was to push the Canaanites out with supernatural means (Exod. 23:28). Because of their unbelief, God couldn’t work for His people in the way He intended. Ellen White said, “It was not His purpose that they should gain the land by warfare, but by strict obedience to His commands.”—Ellen G. White, _Patriarchs and Prophets_ [1890], 392. Later history again revealed God’s ability to save His people without them fighting (2 Kings 19:35). God’s ideal plan would’ve saved Israel from fighting wars of conquest.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How comfortable are you with God’s judgments, including those on the Egyptians and the Canaanites? Why?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Ezekiel 33. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._