---
title: 'Warrior, Judge, and King'
date: 25/12/2025
---

### inVite

God’s judgments in the book of Joshua point forward to the final judgment on this world, when Christ returns as the King of kings who “judges and makes war” (Rev. 19:11). He will lead the armies of heaven forward into battle against the kings of the earth and their armies (vv. 14–19). A great and terrible slaughter will take place when Christ gains total victory over all His enemies (vv. 20, 21). The entire universe will realize that Christ is the undefeated Champion of this world.

As a mighty warrior, Joshua was a literary type of Christ. After years of wandering in the wilderness, Joshua led the children of Israel into the Promised Land, where they could find rest from their enemies and enjoy a permanent home. After our prolonged sojourn in this world, Jesus will lead His people into the heavenly Canaan, where we will find perfect peace and joy in our eternal home. No longer will we suffer pain or fear the future. We will dwell safely in God’s presence. God will welcome everyone who’s receptive to His mercy, including outsiders like Rahab and the Gibeonites. He does not arbitrarily exclude anyone from being part of His covenant people.

In heaven, when God’s people examine history and understand His judgments more fully, we will rejoice that all of God’s judgments have been impartial: “Great and marvelous are Your works, Lord God Almighty! Just and true are Your ways, O King of the saints!” (Rev. 15:3). The angels of heaven will add their praises, saying, “Even so, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are Your judgments” (16:7). Indeed, the whole multitude in heaven will agree, exclaiming, “Alleluia! Salvation and glory and honor and power belong to the Lord our God! For true and righteous are His judgments” (19:1, 2). Everyone will see the integrity and justice of God’s judgments. Questions that remained a mystery in this life will be made plain in that day. Eternity will provide a bigger picture of the events that happened in this world.

The book of Joshua is a strong challenge to us today. It reminds us that this world belongs to God and that He is the Supreme Ruler over all. The story of His judgments against the Canaanites reminds us that God holds individuals, organizations, and nations accountable for their choices. It’s a story of mercy—one that shows how eager God is to save even the unlikeliest and least deserving people. Furthermore, it’s a story of faith that shows what God will do for those who trust Him. It asks us quite pointedly if we will be loyal to God regardless of the cost.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`What was your favorite story from the book of Joshua? Why?`