---
title: 'The Greater Guilt of Israel'
date: 26/12/2025
---

### inSight

“When those who had been God’s chosen people, who had witnessed so many displays of his greatness, and the majesty of his power, should imitate the iniquities of the heathen, the guilt of Israel would be as much greater than was that of the idolatrous nations, as were their privileges. Not one of the good things which God had promised to his people would fail if they would comply with the conditions upon which these blessings were bestowed. If God’s angels wrought with the armies of Israel to drive out the inhabitants of Canaan because of their wickedness, the Hebrews must be free from the sins of those nations. They must maintain a high standard of purity and holiness, and must show in all their words and acts that they loved, feared, and obeyed, the great Ruler of the universe.

“God could not sanction sin, nor protect iniquity. Justice and love are the ruling attributes of his character. While he will punish the transgressors of his law, that others may fear, he has ever tempered judgment with mercy. God singled out the Hebrew nation and connected them with himself, that he might make them representatives of his own character. He would make them a beacon of light to all surrounding nations, that his name might be glorified, and his service exalted. By communion with God, the Israelites were to become partakers of the divine nature, their hearts, debased by sin, were to be purified, their aspirations ennobled. They were to stand forth before the world as an example of what men may become through Jesus Christ. Those whom God would elevate and ennoble by connection with himself, would become, by transgression, wholly debased and Satanic in character. It was for them to choose the course which they would pursue.

“The history of the children of Israel is written for our admonition. We are probationers as they were. We may connect with God as was their privilege. We may become strong in the strength of Israel’s God, if we will believe and obey his word as did Caleb and Joshua. But if we are doubting, and unbelieving, and rebellious, as were the multitudes who fell in the wilderness, we shall be found unworthy to possess those mansions which Christ has gone to prepare for us.”—Ellen G. White, _The Signs of the Times_, March 3, 1881.