---
title:  Debt—A Daily Decision
date:   10/03/2018
---

**Introduction:** Prov. 22:7

### Stewardship Above Slavery

The mere mention of the word debt has a way of making us feel uncomfortable, yet the world of advertising entices us into borrowing. Store and other credit cards; payday, educational, and car loans; mortgages; and many other methods of borrowing are thrust at us. These facilities often catch us unaware, leaving us wrong-footed as we take what is offered, later realizing we could do without it.

**Surely God’s way steers us away from the discomfort of debt, hence leaving us with peace of mind.**

This wonderful poem was written by Kate O’Mahoney, a mom attending a Made of Money group: “Debt, hiding in the corner / behind every door / the shadow walking behind you. / Guilt in every spend. / When you’re alone your thoughts turn / to hopes and dreams only / to be tur ned into pound [dollar] signs. / The knock at the door / The final straw.”1

Though some debt is necessary—for example, mortgages, car loans, and educational loans—debts that are initiated by covetousness force us to sign on the dotted line to satiate our instant gratification. This inevitably leads us down the slippery slope of unnecessary material possessions. In fact, the “wise man” becomes abrupt in this context when he refers to the borrower as a slave (Prov. 22:7, NIV). Mel Rees says of debt, “It is a snare of Satan. It lessens self-worth, weakens a person’s faith, and in a word is demoralizing.”2

We have to admit that entering into the lender’s contract is easy, even though we initially comfort ourselves that we have carefully read and understand the small print. Yet, too often, we have to contemplate the strain of the payback. Consequently, the debt advisors’ business is booming. They put forward such strategies as “visualize your debt,” “restructure your debt,” “cut your spending,” and “set and manage your budget.” For these strategies to work, one must first understand the difference between wants and needs—a significant part of a process that leads us away from the lender. This composite approach takes discipline, but it is achievable, if we are to live within our means.

God’s love is such that He does not wait for us to experience the consequences of debt without extending to us a caring warning against it first. Surely God’s way steers us away from the discomfort of debt, hence leaving us with peace of mind. Let us, this week, explore the avoidance of the slavery of debt in light of being God’s stewards.

<sub>1. Kate O’Mahoney, “Poem About Debt,” Home-Start Westminster, May 24, 2013, http://www.homestartwestminster.org.uk/articles/1647.</sub>

<sub>2. Mel Rees, Biblical Principles for Giving and Living (Hagerstown, Md.: Review and Herald®, 1995), p. 79.</sub>

_Patrick A. Herbert, Birmingham, United Kingdom_

