---
title:  Our Divine Stewardship Advisor
date:   11/03/2018
---

**Logos:** Gen. 3:6, 17–19; Deut. 28:12–14; Prov. 14:15; 22:7; Rom. 13:7, 8

Unwise debt often results in disastrous consequence for our careers, marriages, children, or assets. Because of His love for us, God, through the Bible, provides wise and free advice on how to manage our resources. He wants us to be good stewards as managers of our spiritual and material resources. He wants us to live debt-free lives.

One definition of a steward is “somebody who manages somebody else’s property, finances, or household.” Stewardship is the activity of a steward and is based on a trusting relationship.

**Stewardship is the activity of a steward and is based on a trusting relationship.**

Scripture says: “Give to everyone what you owe them: If you owe taxes, pay taxes; if revenue, then revenue; if respect, then respect; if honor, then honor. Let no debt remain outstanding, except the continuing debt to love one another, for whoever loves others has fulfilled the law” (Rom. 13:7, 8, NIV).

**Disregarding God’s Counsels Leads to Unwise Borrowing and Spending**

God’s plan has always been to prosper and enrich His people with spiritual and material possessions. Under His personal supervision, they were to bear witness to His ennobling grace by their holiness of character (see Lev. 19:2; Matt. 5:48); blessings of health (see Exod. 15:26; Deut. 7:13, 15); superior intellects, as a result of cooperating with laws of body and mind; and their skill in such things as far ming and craftsmanship (see Exod. 31:2–6; 35:33, 35; Deut. 7:13; 28:2–8; Mal. 3:8–11). Borrowing and spending beyond their means and not honoring debts would be signs that God’s people were not following His counsels on good stewardship and receiving the blessings He desired to bestow upon them (see Deut. 28:43–45). God promised to help and bless those who trust Him and follow His counsels (see 1 Cor. 10:13). Those who reject God’s counsels and help would be in danger of poverty and disgrace (see Prov. 13:18).

**Good Stewards Do Not Give In to Instant Gratification**

Too often we give in to the lust of the flesh and lose the good things we have. Adam and Eve’s inordinate desire for instant elevation to a higher sphere caused them to take what did not belong to them, resulting in their loss of dominion over themselves, stewardship of the world, and much more (see Gen. 3:6, 17–19). Esau, unable to control his appetite for food, lost his birth right (see Gen. 25:34). David’s inability to control his sexual desires caused him to lose his honor and integrity (see 2 Sam. 11:2–4). Those who are controlled by the flesh cannot please God (see Rom. 8:8). In fact, following the belly and the flesh can lead to our destruction (see Phil. 3:19). In order to be stewards that God can trust, we must manage our natural desires, which demands self-control (see 1 Cor. 9:25). Through Christ’s earthly life and ministry, God demonstrated that by His enabling grace, human beings who govern their lives by His Word are able to be good stewards of their minds and bodies (see Matt. 4:3–10; Titus 3:7). The restoration of stewardship is an important part of the good news of the gospel.

**Good Stewards Live Within Their Means**

Divine wisdom causes us to consider the future and not to live just for the present (see Prov. 14:15). A foolish person spends without thought for tomorrow (see Prov. 21:20). Wise people make careful plans and save money and other essential resources for their education, careers, marriages, children, and retirement. Counting the cost of our plans and living within our means enables us to save for the future. We need to be sure that we receive sufficient love from the Holy Spirit (see Rom. 5:5) to pay God the love debt we owe Him (see Rom. 13:7, 8). Christ and His kingdom must occupy first place in our lives (see Matt. 6:33; Mark 12:30). A life in Christ enables us to control our resources (see 1 Tim. 6:6–8) and give God what belongs to Him.

**Good Stewards Say No to Debt**

We belong to God. It is He who created us and placed us in His world. It is He who redeemed us by His marvelous love and blood. He has made us stewards of ourselves, the world, and His love. He has promised that if we allow Him to take His rightful place in our lives, He will lead us by His Word and the Holy Spirit. He will bless us and cause us to prosper. Though in all prudence we may on occasions take out a loan, it may not be due to our own folly that we end up in poverty. Unwise debt and poverty misrepresents God as our Wise Stewardship Advisor (see Deut. 28:12–14). The action of taking on financial debt in order to guarantee someone else’s loan is stupid (see Prov. 17:18, CEV; 22:26). Those who borrow are often slaves to money lenders (see Prov. 22:7, CEV).

**Good Stewards Invest in a Future With God**

God gives us knowledge and power to get wealth (see Deut. 8:18; Prov. 13:11). He has taught us to be as industrious as ants and to save carefully for the future (see Prov. 6:6–8; 21:5); to be generous and give to those in need (see Eccles. 11:1, 2, The Message; Luke 12:33). Above all, He has taught us to seek first His kingdom and righteousness (Matt. 6:33), for it will not profit us to gain the whole world and at the end lose our souls (see Matt. 16:26). Our Divine Stewardship Advisor’s directive is to consider not “the things which are seen, but . . . the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporary, but the things which are not seen are eternal” (2 Cor. 4:18, NKJV). We must keep our minds and focus on the things of God and His kingdom. Good stewards invest in a future with God because they love Him and understand that nothing in this world lasts forever.

_Elliott A. Williams, Watford, Hertfordshire, United Kingdom_