---
title:  God Offers Security Through Stewardship
date:   12/03/2018
---

**Testimony:** 1 Chron. 29:14

“A steward identifies himself with his master. He accepts the responsibilities of a steward, and he must act in his master’s stead, doing as his master would do were he presiding. His master’s interests become his. The position of a steward is one of dignity, because his master trusts him.”1

“To a greater or less degree, all are placed in charge of the talents of their Lord. The spiritual, mental, and physical ability, the influence, station, possessions, affections, sympathies, all are precious talents to be used in the cause of the Master for the salvation of souls for whom Christ died.”2

**“A steward identifies himself with his master.”**

“In commissioning His disciples to go ‘into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature,’ Christ assigned to men the work of extending the knowledge of His grace. But while some go forth to preach, He calls upon others to answer His claims upon them for offerings, with which to support His cause in the earth. He has placed means in the hands of men, that His divine gifts may flow through human channels in doing the work appointed us in saving our fellow men. This is one of God’s ways of exalting man. It is just the work that man needs; for it will stir the deepest sympathies of his heart, and call into exercise the highest capabilities of the mind.”3

“God gives to every man his work, and He expects corresponding returns, according to their various trusts. He does not require the increase from ten talents of the man to whom He has given only one talent. He does not expect the man of poverty to give alms as the man who has riches. He does not expect of the feeble and suffering, the activity and strength which the healthy man has. The one talent, used to the best account, God will accept ‘according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not.’ ”4

“God desires us to choose the heavenly in place of the earthly. He opens before us the possibilities of a heavenly investment. He would give encouragement to our loftiest aims, security to our choicest treasure. He declares, ‘I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir’ (Isaiah 13:12). When the riches that moth devours and rust corrupts shall be swept away, Christ’s followers can rejoice in their heavenly treasure, the riches that are imperishable.” 5

<sub>1. Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, p. 113.</sub>

<sub>2. Ibid., p. 117.</sub>

<sub>3. Ibid., p. 15.</sub>

<sub>4. Ibid., p. 119.</sub>

<sub>5. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 374</sub>

_Lily Mclay, Reading, Berkshire, United Kingdom_

