---
title:  Stewardship Teaches Us to Live God’s Way
date:   13/03/2018
---

**Evidence:** Mal. 3:10

We are told that stewardship can teach us how to live as God would have us live. The popular children’s song starts: “Jesus loves me this I know, / for the Bible tells me so.” I am of the view that stewardship has its foundation in the love of Jesus through faith in the reliability of the Bible, which informs me that Jesus loves me.

**“I have never been broke.”**

One evening in the 1950s, eight-year-old Mandrake sat beside his father on the verandah of their country home in Jamaica and sang, “Jesus loves me this I know, / for the Bible tells me so . . .”

His father stopped him before he sang any further and asked, “How do you know Jesus loves you?”

“The Bible tells me so,” Mandrake responded without hesitation. “Very good. The Bible also tells you that you should pay your tithe. Would you like to start paying tithe?”

“But I don’t have plenty money to put in the envelope,” Mandrake replied. “The Bible doesn’t say to always put plenty money in the envelope. It says pay ten percent of what you get. So when you get one shilling [twelve imperial pence], you pay penny farthing for tithe.” Mandrake listened intently. “Do you understand that?” Mandrake’s father enquired.

“Yes Dadda. And because I love Jesus, when I get any money I will put my tithe into the envelope myself and drop it in the basket at church.” Today, the professional Mandrake still pays his tithe. He said it has not always been easy, particularly when he studied in a foreign country, but he had faith that since Jesus loves him, he had to love Jesus and do what He asked him to do. “I believed that God would keep His promise in Malachi 3:10, and He has. I have never been broke,” Mandrake explains.

Mandrake said, “The ninety percent left after paying tithe went far because during hard times I disciplined myself and spent only on my needs, which allowed me adequate scope to save and invest wisely. God has certainly poured out His blessings on me so I could be generous to others— both in deeds and kind.”

Mandrake was just eight years old when he learned that the relationship between God’s love and faith in the Bible would have a positive influence as he lived his life for God. How many young children in our churches are aware that an offering should be given because of their love for God? How many know that stewardship teaches them how to live their lives in harmony with what God wants for them?

_Albert A. C. Waite, Berkshire, United Kingdom_

