---
title:  Lead Me Not Into Temp-TAKE-tion
date:   14/03/2018
---

**How-to:** Matt. 4:3–10; Rom. 8:8; 1 John 2:16

Today’s culture heavily implies that our happiness, success, and the quality of our lives are based on having the perfect self-image, an abundance of possessions, and building up a plethora of pleasurable experiences. Our ability to buy now and pay later feeds our desire for instant gratification. True stewardship equips us to fight Satan’s temptations and makes us take action to avoid instant self-gratification as we seek to gratify God. Here are three steps for overcoming “temp-TAKE-tion.”

**Our ability to buy now and pay later feeds our desire for instant gratification.**

Take note. Be ruthlessly honest in recognizing and identifying the idols in your life that are consuming your attention and time and that cause you to shift your focus from Jesus. Remember that true and lasting happiness is found only in Jesus. Ask God to reveal to you who you really are in Him and expose the false perceptions that cause you to seek gratification elsewhere. Take control. Boldly confess and positively speak the Word out loud like Jesus did (see Matt. 4:3–10). Remember, when you resist the devil he will leave (James 4:7). Find verses that speak to your situation and claim the promises. When you speak God’s Word out loud, not only does God hear it, but the angels hear it and go to work in your behalf (see Ps. 103:20). Also know that His Word cannot return to Him void (Isa. 55:10, 11).

Take action. Surrender the situation to God. Look to Him as your Source and ask Him to help you. He is big enough to handle any situation. He will empower you to make the right choice(s) in the dilemma you are facing if you trust Him instead of your own feelings (see Prov. 3:5, 6). Be grateful for what you already have. God will give you the right perspective on your self-image, money, possessions, and experiences.

By taking these three steps, you are placing God and His kingdom first because you trust that your need will be provided for (Matt. 6:33).

**REACT**

`1. What influences your spending habits?`

`2. Next time you are faced with a situation that can bring instant selfgratification, ask yourself the following: (a) What will the implications/consequences of my actions be? (b) How will they honor God? (c) Can I make better use of my resources (money, time, etc.) for a higher purpose?`

_Gina Miller, Nottingham, United Kingdom_

