---
title:  Own Up and Act Wisely—A Biblical Perspective
date:   15/03/2018
---

**Opinion:** Prov. 14:15; Matt. 6:33; Luke 14:27–30; 1 Tim. 6:8

As Christians, we need to manage our money wisely. The Bible is crystal clear about Christians not being capable of serving both God and money (see Matt. 6:24). The way we spend our money reflects who we serve.

First things first. Money for tithes and freewill offerings should be set aside before we incur any expenses (see Matt. 6:33). The world finds fulfillment in material things, but the relationship of Christians with God should be mirrored in the way we spend our money (see Prov. 27:19).

**The way we spend our money reflects who we serve.**

One can find oneself in debt purely because of one’s own choice or because of circumstances out of one’s control. Examples include student loans, loss of a job, long-term sickness, and the death of a loved one. In all circumstances, one needs to take full responsibility and own up to the situation and pay the debt. It is important that the Christian gets his or her life in order, owns up to the reality of the situation, and takes remedial action. We should not come up with excuses or blame others for the choices that we make, and we should not turn a blind eye to debts (see Ps. 37:21). If we do, we put the name of the God, whom we profess to serve, into disrepute. When, as Christians, we don’t pay back what we owe, we deny our faith, and it may get in the way of other people accepting the truth that we profess to believe. We need to commit our finances to God in prayer, and as a church we should not be judgmental but show love to those who find themselves in debt, by offering advice, guidance, and signposting to organizations that are best placed to deal with debt matters (see Rom. 15:1).

As Christians, we will always be indebted to our Lord Jesus Christ, who paid the price, took our place on the cross, and died for our sins. We need to live lives that are pleasing to Him as an appreciation of what He has done for us.

**REACT**

`1. Is it easier to part with our money when we spend it on ourselves instead of giving to advance God’s work?`

`2. Does paying a debt seem to be urgent and, therefore, take priority over tithe paying?`

`3. When we don’t pay our tithe, does it accrue into debt? And does God want us to return a lump sum to make up for what we did not pay?`

_Itumeleng Osupeng, Reading, Berkshire, United Kingdom_

