---
title:  Slavery to Debt, or Freedom From It?
date:   16/03/2018
---

**Exploration:** Rom. 13:7, 8

**CONCLUDE**

At the end of the day, debt is a debilitating disease that thousands of people face on a chronic basis. Being debt-free has almost become a phenomenon in our entitled, fast-paced, lack-of-delayed-gratification society. Many people find themselves enslaved to debt and therefore constantly think about money or the lack thereof. Jesus wants to free us from our debt, so let’s come up with a plan to become debt-free at last.

**CONSIDER**

- Setting a goal for your debt repayment plan. Try using a cash system for purchases instead of a credit card.
- Drawing a thermometer and marking your debt in increments up to the total. Color it in red every time that you pay some off and reward yourself at each level.
- Making a dream wall of things you want to buy or do and people you want to help when you are debt-free.
- Doing a budget for your household so that you are living below your means.
- Reading books on finance and money management.
- Booking an appointment with a financial advisor.
- Mentoring a young person on finances, living debt-free, and the importance of paying God first through our tithes and offerings.

**CONNECT**

Deuteronomy 8:18; 28:12; Psalm 37:21; Ecclesiastes 5:5; 1 John 2:16.

Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, p. 206.

Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, p. 259.

Dave Ramsey, More Than Enough: The Ten Keys to Changing Your Financial Destiny.

_Michelle Solheiro, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_