---
title:  Jacob Blesses His Sons
date:  22/06/2022
---

`Read Genesis 49:1–28. What is the spiritual significance of Jacob’s blessing on his sons?`

Beyond the prophecies concerning the immediate history of the tribes of Israel, Jacob sees the Messiah and the ultimate hope of salvation. This hope already is indicated in Jacob’s opening words that use the expression “in the last days” (Gen. 49:1), a technical expression that refers to the coming of the Messianic King (Isa. 2:2, Dan. 10:14).

The text then goes through the future line of each of these men. These are not predestinated fates, as if God willed that each of these would face what they faced; rather, they are expressions of what their characters and the characters of their children would bring about. God’s knowing, for instance, that someone will kill an innocent man is a radically different thing from God’s having willed that the killer do it.

`Read Genesis 49:8–12. What prophecy is given here, and why is it important?`

Over and above human free will, God does know the future, and He had arranged that it would be through Judah that the Messiah would come. Judah (Gen. 49:8–12), who is represented by a lion (Gen. 49:9), refers to royalty and praise. Judah will not only produce King David, but also the Shiloh; that is, the One who will bring _shalom_, “peace” (Isa. 9:6, 7), to Him “shall be the obedience of the people” (Gen. 49:10, NKJV).

The Jews have long seen this as a Messianic prophecy pointing to the coming Messiah, and Christians, too, have seen this text as pointing to Jesus. “Unto him shall the gathering of the people be” (Gen. 49:10), which is, perhaps, a precursor to the New Testament promise “that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow” (Phil. 2:10).

As Ellen G. White wrote: “The lion, king of the forest, is a fitting symbol of this tribe, from which came David, and the Son of David, Shiloh, the true ‘Lion of the tribe of Judah,’ to whom all powers shall finally bow and all nations render homage.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 236.

`Why should we be rendering homage to Jesus now, even before all nations will do it?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

At the last all the sons of Jacob were gathered about his dying bed. And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, “Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and hearken unto Israel your father,” “that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days.” Often and anxiously he had thought of their future, and had endeavored to picture to himself the history of the different tribes. Now as his children waited to receive his last blessing the Spirit of Inspiration rested upon him, and before him in prophetic vision the future of his descendants was unfolded. One after another the names of his sons were mentioned, the character of each was described, and the future history of the tribes was briefly foretold. . . .<br/>
The priesthood was apportioned to Levi, the kingdom and the Messianic promise to Judah, and the double portion of the inheritance to Joseph. The tribe of Reuben never rose to any eminence in Israel; it was not so numerous as Judah, Joseph, or Dan, and was among the first that were carried into captivity.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 235.

Jacob had ever been a man of deep and ardent affection; his love for his sons was strong and tender, and his dying testimony to them was not the utterance of partiality or resentment. He had forgiven them all, and he loved them to the last. His paternal tenderness would have found expression only in words of encouragement and hope; but the power of God rested upon him, and under the influence of Inspiration he was constrained to declare the truth, however painful.<br/>
The last blessings pronounced, Jacob repeated the charge concerning his burial place: “I am to be gathered unto my people: bury me with my fathers . . . in the cave that is in the field of Machpelah.” “There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah.” Thus the last act of his life was to manifest his faith in God’s promise.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 237.

Not all in this world have taken sides with the enemy against God. Not all have become disloyal. There are a faithful few who are true to God; for John writes: “Here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.” Revelation 14:12. Soon the battle will be waged fiercely between those who serve God and those who serve Him not. Soon everything that can be shaken will be shaken, that those things that cannot be shaken may remain. . . .<br/>
. . . God’s tried and tested people will find their power in the sign spoken of in Exodus 31:12-18. They are to take their stand on the living word: “It is written.” This is the only foundation upon which they can stand securely. Those who have broken their covenant with God will in that day be without God and without hope.<br/>
The worshipers of God will be especially distinguished by their regard for the fourth commandment, since this is the sign of God’s creative power and the witness to His claim upon man’s reverence and homage.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, pp. 15, 16.