---
title:  The Hope of the Promised Land
date:  23/06/2022
---

`Read Genesis 49:29–50:21. What great themes of hope are found in the conclusion of the book of Genesis?`

The conclusion of Genesis is made up of three events that are filled with hope.

First, there is the hope that Israel will return to the Promised Land. Moses, the author of Genesis, describes Jacob’s and Joseph’s deaths and burials as events pointing to the Promised Land. Immediately after his blessing and prophecy on the “twelve tribes of Israel” (Gen. 49:28), Jacob thinks of his death and charges his sons to bury him in Canaan, at the cave of Machpelah, where Sarah was buried (Gen. 49:29–31). The narrative describing the funeral procession toward Canaan becomes a precursor to the exodus from Egypt several centuries later.

Second, there is the hope that God will turn evil into good. After Jacob’s death and burial, Joseph’s brothers are worried about their future. They are afraid that Joseph will now take his revenge. They come to Joseph and prostrate themselves before him, ready to become his servants (Gen. 50:18), a scenario that is reminiscent of Joseph’s prophetic dreams. Joseph reassures them and tells them to “ ‘not be afraid’ ” (Gen. 50:19, NKJV), a phrase that refers to the future (Gen. 15:1); because what was “ ‘meant evil’ ” against him, “God meant . . . for good” (Gen. 50:20, NKJV), and turned the course of events toward salvation (Gen. 50:19–21; compare with Gen. 45:5, 7–9). That is, even despite so many human failures, God’s providence will overrule.

Third, there is the hope that God will save fallen humankind. The story of Joseph’s death in this last verse of Genesis is broader than just about his death. Strangely, Joseph does not command to have his bones buried. Instead he points to the time when “ ‘God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here’ ” (Gen. 50:25, NKJV), which they did, many years later, in direct obedience to those words (see Exod. 13:19). Ultimately, the hope of the Promised Land, Canaan, is a symbol, a precursor, to the ultimate hope of salvation, of restoration, of a New Jerusalem in a new heaven and a new earth—the ultimate hope for all of us, a hope made certain by the death of Shiloh.

`Read Revelation 21:1–4. How do these verses represent the grandest hope that we have? Without this promise, what hope do we have other than death alone as the end of all our problems?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Jacob and his sons had brought their flocks and herds with them to Egypt, where they had greatly increased. Before leaving Egypt, the people, by the direction of Moses, claimed a recompense for their unpaid labor; and the Egyptians were too eager to be freed from their presence to refuse them. The bondmen went forth laden with the spoil of their oppressors.<br/>
That day completed the history revealed to Abraham in prophetic vision centuries before: “Thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years; and also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they come out with great substance.” Genesis 15:13, 14. [See appendix, note 3.] The four hundred years had been fulfilled. “And it came to pass the selfsame day, that the Lord did bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.” In their departure from Egypt the Israelites bore with them a precious legacy, in the bones of Joseph, which had so long awaited the fulfillment of God’s promise, and which, during the dark years of bondage, had been a reminder of Israel’s deliverance.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 281.

God never leads His children otherwise than they would choose to be led, if they could see the end from the beginning and discern the glory of the purpose which they are fulfilling as co-workers with Him.<br/>
All that has perplexed us in the providences of God will in the world to come be made plain. The things hard to be understood will then find explanation. The mysteries of grace will unfold before us. Where our finite minds discovered only confusion and broken promises, we shall see the most perfect and beautiful harmony. We shall know that infinite love ordered the experiences that seemed most trying.<br/>
He who is imbued with the Spirit of Christ abides in Christ. The blow that is aimed at him falls upon the Saviour, who surrounds him with His presence. Whatever comes to him comes from Christ. He has no need to resist evil, for Christ is his defense. Nothing can touch him except by our Lord’s permission, and “all things” that are permitted “work together for good to them that love God.”—The Faith I Live By, p. 64.

[The] hope of redemption through the advent of the Son of God as Saviour and King, has never become extinct in the hearts of men. From the beginning there have been some whose faith has reached out beyond the shadows of the present to the realities of the future. Adam, Seth, Enoch, Methuselah, Noah, Shem, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob—through these and other worthies the Lord has preserved the precious revealings of His will. And it was thus that to the children of Israel, the chosen people through whom was to be given to the world the promised Messiah, God imparted a knowledge of the requirements of His law, and of the salvation to be accomplished through the atoning sacrifice of His beloved Son.—Prophets and Kings, pp. 682, 683.