---
title:  Human Teachings Compared With God’s Commands
date:   04/08/2024
---

`Read Mark 7:1–13. What important Bible truths do we learn from these verses?`

Make a picture in your mind of children studying these verses in Sabbath School. When they get home, the children announce to their mothers that they no longer need to wash their hands before they eat because Jesus said so! But this story is not about germs or health.

In Jesus’ day, many Jews cared about having clean hearts. In the past, the spiritual leaders made a rule about handwashing. The leaders commanded everyone to wash their hands so that they would stay clean inside their hearts. In Moses’ time, only the priests or spiritual leaders needed to follow this rule (Exodus 30:17–21). But in Jesus’ day, everyone must obey it. So, when Jesus’ followers break this rule, the Jewish leaders complain to Jesus.

Jesus answers their complaint with a strong Bible quote from Isaiah (Isaiah 29:13). In this verse, Isaiah scolds the Jews who say they honor God but do not keep His law. Isaiah also scolds the Jews for replacing God’s commands with man-made rules.

In His answer to the Jewish leaders, Jesus also includes God’s command to honor our parents (Exodus 20:12). We must take care of our parents in their old age. Jesus compares this teaching with the religious rule that allows someone to give a gift to God. (The word “gift” comes from the word “_corban_” in the Greek language.) The spiritual leaders allowed a man to give a gift to God but continue to use it for himself. At the same time, the spiritual leaders allowed the man to refuse to help his parents who were old and needed this gift. Can you imagine in your mind the conversation between a young man who followed this rule and his old parents? The young man could say, “I’m sorry, Father. I would really love to help you, but I gave the money to the temple.”

Jesus attacks this type of false religious teaching. The Jewish leaders made their rules more important than the Bible. When they did that, they sinned against God.

Jesus doesn’t believe that the handwashing rule is necessary or part of God’s plan. Jesus’ answer shows us that He supports God’s law and not human rules. (Also read Mark 1:44; Mark 7:10–13; Mark 10:3–8; and Mark 12:26, 29–31.)

The children announce to their mother that they no longer need to wash their hands before they eat because Jesus said so!