---
title:  Clean Hands or Clean Heart?
date:   05/08/2024
---

`Read Mark 7:14–19. What did Jesus mean when He told the riddle in Mark 7:15?`

Many people misunderstand Jesus’ words in Mark 7:14–19. Is Jesus saying that people no longer need to worry about keeping the food laws in Leviticus 11? Are Seventh-day Adventists wrong to teach that church members who do eat meat should only eat meat from the clean animal list in Leviticus 11?

First, we must remember that Jesus just finished giving reasons for why we should obey the law of Moses (Mark 7:6–13). So, right after that, do you really think He would say that we don’t need to follow the food laws that God gave to Moses (read Mark 7:14–19)? Of course not! Second, the food rules that the Jewish spiritual leaders taught did not come from the Old Testament. The food laws of Moses came from the Old Testament. Third, what Mark 7:19 is really saying is that the food rules that the Jewish leaders made were false. One of these rules said that if a Jew touched food that a non-Jew touched, then the food would make the heart of a Jew dirty.

`What makes a person’s heart dirty? Read Mark 7:20–23 for Jesus’ answer.`

In Mark 7:19, Jesus says that food doesn’t go into the heart. Food goes into the belly and goes through the body. But in Mark 7:21–23, Jesus says that evil comes from inside the heart. Jesus gives a list of evil behavior and sins that start with evil thoughts and end with evil actions.

In Mark 7:10, Jesus includes breaking the fifth commandment on His list of evil behavior and sins. Honoring your parents is the fifth commandment. Every commandment from the second part of the law is included on Jesus’ list. In Mark 7:7, Jesus also talks about empty worship. When we break the first four commandments, our worship is empty. So, this story in Mark 7 shows us that Jesus supports God’s law.

`Maybe you know and understand all the correct teachings and beliefs. But who owns your heart? God? Or self and Satan?`