---
title:  Crumbs for the Dogs
date:   06/08/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 7:24–30. What important lessons do we learn from this story?`

The story in Mark 7:24–30 also brings up some difficult questions. First of all, why does Jesus compare this woman to a dog?

In Mark 7:27, Jesus says the children should be fed first. So, if the children are the “first,” then there must also be another group who is “second,” right? Jesus also uses a special form of the word “dogs,” or “little dogs.” This special form doesn’t mean puppies. The word for “dogs” that Jesus uses means the dogs that are allowed to come inside the house. Street dogs are not allowed inside. Jesus’ words about the “dogs” who can come inside the house give the woman hope.

“She answered, ‘That is true, Lord. But the dogs under the table can eat the pieces of food that the children don’t eat’ ” (Mark 7:28, ERV).

How did this woman come up with this brave answer? For sure, love for her daughter filled her with courage. Jesus’ words about the dogs gave her hope because they showed her that she was the same as a dog inside the house. The dog was under the table at the feet of the Master of the house. In the same way, the woman fell down at Jesus’ feet. There, she asked Him to help her daughter. The dog was allowed to eat the food that fell on the floor. In the same way, the woman asked for what the dog was allowed to have.

The woman’s answer shows her faith. She wanted Jesus to heal her daughter who was at home. The woman knew this miracle was easy for Jesus. That’s why the woman compared this miracle to a small crumb of food. The woman said that this miracle would be easy for Jesus to do because He was very powerful. Her problem was the same as a small crumb compared to Jesus’ strength.

“Jesus showed the woman that she was no longer a stranger in Israel. She was a child of God and part of His family. As a child, she may share in the Father’s gifts that He gives to His children.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 401, adapted.

`Why is it wrong to hate other people who are different from you? Why does this hate go against the teaching of Jesus? How can we clean our hearts of these evil feelings?`