---
title:  The Man Who Had Trouble Speaking
date:   07/08/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 7:31–37. Who was brought to Jesus? What did Jesus do for this man?`

Jesus took the long way back to Galilee from Tyre and Sidon. Jesus went north from Tyre, up through Sidon. Then He went down through the area that was to the northeast of the Sea of Galilee. Finally, Jesus arrived near the sea. Jesus may have taken the long way back to Galilee so that He could spend more time teaching His followers.

Someone brought a man to Jesus when he came to Galilee. Mark doesn’t tell us who brought the man to Jesus. The man was deaf, and he had trouble speaking.

Jesus understands the man’s needs. So, Jesus takes the man aside to heal him in private. As modern readers, we may think that what Jesus did next to heal the man was strange. Jesus put His fingers in the man’s ears. Next, Jesus spits and touches the man’s tongue. Then Jesus sighs or takes a deep breath and then blows His air out. We see from the story that Jesus touches the parts of the man that need healing. But why did Jesus sigh? “Jesus sighed because He thought about all the people who would not listen to His teachings. Jesus sighed because He thought about all the people who would refuse to accept Him as the Savior.”
—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 404, adapted.

Jesus healed the man. The man could now hear and speak with no problem. Jesus’ sigh helps us to understand that God has put limits on Himself. God will not force Himself on anyone. He gives us free choice. All people are free to choose the one they will serve: Jesus, who is the Prince of Life, or Satan, who is the prince of evil. Jesus could make everyone listen to Him if He wanted. But He will not force anyone to accept Him as the Savior.

This story shows us the things that God can do for the ones who come to Him for help. Maybe you are afraid to share your faith with other people. Maybe you feel the same as this man that Jesus healed because you have trouble talking about your faith or knowing just what to say. Jesus’ miracle of healing this man gives us hope that Jesus can help us talk about Him to people who need to know about His love.

`God gave us the gift of communicating with other people. How are we using this gift to honor Him?`