---
title:  Watch Out For Bad Bread!
date:   08/08/2024
---

`Read the conversation between Jesus and the Jewish leaders in Mark 8:11–13. What did the leaders say that upset Jesus?`

Why didn’t Jesus do a miracle to show the leaders that He was God? To understand why Jesus refused, we must remember what Jesus says at the end of Mark 3. At the end of this chapter, Jesus talks about the sin against the Holy Spirit. If people refuse to believe what they do see, then another miracle won’t convince them. Miracles aren’t enough to convince people who refuse to believe.

`What did the followers forget? What lesson did Jesus want to teach them? Read Mark 8:14–21 for the answers.`

Jesus warns His followers against the “yeast” of the Jewish spiritual leaders and King Herod. Yeast is added to bread dough to make it rise. What is this “yeast” that Jesus talks about? “Yeast” is a word picture for teachings (compare with Matthew 16:12).

But the followers don’t understand what Jesus is talking about. They think Jesus is talking about buying real bread! Jesus asks His followers some questions to help them understand. Jesus is disappointed that His followers don’t understand the work He came to do. Jesus’ words help us remember what He says in Mark 4:10–12 about people who don’t understand. Jesus uses strong words to help His followers understand their mistakes.

In Mark 8:19, 20, Jesus asks His followers questions about the number of baskets of bread that were left over after He fed the 5,000 and the 4,000 (Mark 8:1–10). Both of these stories should have taught the followers that how much or little we have does not limit God in His work. Jesus asks a final question in Mark 8:21: “Then Jesus said to them, ‘You remember these things I did, but you still don’t understand?’ ” (ICB). Look at all that the followers saw already with Jesus, right? So, why, after all these experiences, do they continue not to understand?

`Think about all the proof God gives us to believe in Him and His love. God gives us so much, right? So, why do some of us continue to doubt?`