---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   09/08/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Tradition,” “Barriers Broken Down,” and “The True Sign,” in _The Desire of Ages_, pages 395–409.

“Many Christians today hide in their hearts a secret wish. They want other people to praise them. This sin fills the hearts of many of the Lord’s followers today, just as it did in Bible times. This secret wish will ruin our work for Jesus and hurt our friendships with other people. So many of God’s people want other people to honor and praise them. When we love self and want an easy way to be saved, we will replace God’s commandments with man-made rules. Jesus’ words of warning to His followers are also a warning for us. ‘Be careful,’ Jesus warned them. ‘Watch out for the yeast [makes bread rise; also a word picture for the false teachings and man-made rules] of the Pharisees [Jewish spiritual leaders]. [Mark 8:15, NIrV].

“Jesus’ religion is holy and honest. When the Holy Spirit lives in our hearts, we will want to give all the glory and praise to God. Only God is powerful enough to empty our hearts of all pride and change us. When this change happens in our lives, we know that God is working. Faith should destroy the selfish spirit in our hearts. Faith should cause us to seek to honor God and not ourselves. When these things happen in our lives, we know that we are following God. Jesus said, ‘Father, honor Your name!’ [John 12:28, NLV]. Jesus followed this rule His whole life. If we follow Jesus, we also will follow this important rule. Jesus commands us to ‘live the way Jesus lived.’ 1 John 2:6 [ERV]. ‘We can be sure that we know Him if we obey His teaching.’ 1 John 2:3 [NLV].”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 409, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`As a Christian, what do you do to keep your heart clean?`

`Who are the “dirty” people in your community? What can you do to share the Good News about Jesus with them?`

`What can you and your class members do to share the Good News about Jesus in little ways with your neighbors?`