---
title:  The Dragon of Revelation
date:  03/03/2025
---

The overarching perspective of celestial rulers in the cosmic conflict is encapsulated in the book of Revelation, where the devil is depicted as “the great dragon” who opposes God and “deceives the whole world” (Rev. 12:9, NKJV).

`Read Revelation 13:1–8. What does this reveal about the extent of the dragon’s jurisdiction?`

The dragon (Satan) not only wars against God (Rev. 12:7–9) and His servants (for example, Rev. 12:1–6), but he is depicted as the ruler behind the earthly kingdoms who persecute God’s people throughout the ages.

The dragon “gave . . . his power, his throne, and great authority” to the beast from the sea (Rev. 13:2, NKJV; compare with Rev. 13:5; Rev. 17:13, 14). This beast from the sea is “given a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies, and he was given authority to continue for forty-two months” (Rev. 13:5, NKJV).

So, Satan (the dragon) gives power and ruling authority to a beast (an earthly religious-political power). This power is exercised in order to usurp the worship due to God. The beast blasphemes God’s name; it also wars against, and even overcomes, God’s holy ones (saints), at least for a period of time. This worldwide authority and jurisdiction is given to him by the dragon, the usurping ruler of this world.

Yet, there are clear limits on Satan and his agencies, as well, including temporal limits. “ ‘Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them! Woe to the inhabitants of the earth and the sea! For the devil has come down to you, having great wrath, because he knows that he has a short time’ ” (Rev. 12:12, NKJV).

Satan “knows that his time is short” (Rev. 12:12, ESV), and the events described in Revelation proceed along prophetic time lines, which show specific limits (see Rev. 12:14, Rev. 13:5) to the reign of these evil forces.

Indeed, God finally triumphs. “ ‘And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes; there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away’ ” (Rev. 21:4, NKJV).

`However hard for us to see it now, in the end good will eternally triumph over evil. Why is it so important that we never forget this wonderful promise?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Under the symbols of a great red dragon, a leopardlike beast, and a beast with lamblike horns, the earthly governments which would especially engage in trampling upon God’s law and persecuting His people, were presented to John. The war is carried on till the close of time. The people of God, symbolized by a holy woman and her children, were represented as greatly in the minority. In the last days only a remnant still existed. Of these John speaks as they “which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.” . . .\
Satan and his army of confederates have been the avowed enemies of God in our world, continually warring against the cause of truth and righteousness. Satan has continued to present to men, as he presented to the angels, his false representations of Christ and of God, and he has won the world to his side. Even the professedly Christian churches have taken sides with the great apostate.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, pp. 972, 973.

We are in constant danger of becoming self-sufficient, relying upon our own wisdom, and not making God our strength. Nothing disturbs Satan so much as our not being ignorant of his devices. If we feel our dangers, we shall feel the need of prayer as did Nehemiah, and, like him, we shall obtain that sure defense that will give us security in peril. If we are careless and indifferent, we shall surely be overcome by Satan’s devices. We must be vigilant. While, like Nehemiah, we resort to prayer, taking all our perplexities and burdens to God, we should not feel that we have nothing to do. We are to watch as well as pray. We should watch the work of our adversaries, lest they gain advantage in deceiving souls. We should, in the wisdom of Christ, make efforts to defeat their purposes, while, at the same time, we do not suffer them to call us from our great work. Truth is stronger than error. Righteousness will prevail over wrong.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 3, p. 1138.

With pity and compassion, with tender yearning, the Lord is looking upon His tempted and tried people. For a time the oppressors will be permitted to triumph over those who know God’s holy commandments. All are given the same opportunity that was granted to the first great rebel to demonstrate the spirit that moves them to action. It is God’s purpose that everyone shall be tested and proved, to see whether he will be loyal or disloyal to the laws which govern the kingdom of heaven. To the last God permits Satan to reveal his character as a liar, an accuser, and a murderer. Thus the final triumph of his people is made more marked, more glorious, more full and complete.\
The people of God should be wide awake, not trusting in their own wisdom, but wholly in the wisdom of their Leader. They should set aside days for fasting and prayer.—Selected Messages, book 3, p. 414.