---
title:  Human Impossibility God’s Possibility
date:  06/10/2019
---

#### inGest

The king of Babylon has a dream followed by sudden amnesia. His blubbering wise men try to come up with a solution but to no avail. This enrages the king, who places all the wise men of the kingdom on death row. Daniel seeks an audience with the king, where he asks for more time. His request granted, Daniel returns home and calls a prayer meeting with his three friends, and the rest is history. (We will cover the dream and its interpretation in the prophetic section that comes later in this study commentary.)

The first response of Daniel and his three friends to the crisis was to pray. Sometimes the only thing we can do is pray, especially when the solution requires supernatural intervention. In this case, the supernatural intervention also involved supernatural revelation. Although temperance enhances our spiritual perception, this alone is not enough; we need to bathe our study of God’s prophetic Word in prayer. Prayer is the key to spiritual revelation and understanding.

Before Daniel receives the first prophecy, he commits to physical temperance and spiritual prayer—this affects his being. Being must precede knowing. Being in prayer creates the correct mental posture for approaching prophecy—human wisdom must bow to the great “I AM.” Daniel and his three friends’ prayers for supernatural revelation are an example that we are to seek to emulate as we wrestle with the prophetic message found within the book of Daniel.

Daniel was in an impossible situation. He was asked to figure out what the king had dreamed in his own bed. Daniel’s response to the crisis was to pray. When we pray, human impossibility is God’s opportunity.

``