---
title:  A Persecutor and Prosecutor
date:  28/07/2018
---

**Introduction**: Acts 26:9–11

More than 70 years after its end, the legacy of the Holocaust continues to haunt the entire world in the twenty-first century. World dignitaries have condemned it in turn.

The period between 1941 and 1945 is remembered for the mass murder of six million Jews by the Nazi terror. According to information published on the History website, Adolf Hitler, the Nazi mastermind, believed that “Jews were an inferior race, an alien threat to German racial purity and community.”*

The episode of the Holocaust has a unique similarity to this week’s lesson. In the early days of Christianity, Paul was among the Jews who opposed it to the core. Christianity was considered an inferior sect and a threat to the Jewish religion. Together with other Jewish leaders, Paul did everything possible to suppress the growth of Christianity in Jerusalem. He persecuted and prosecuted Christians. Unfortunately, the practice continues in some parts of the world, even today. People who convert to Christianity face several dangers, such as losing their jobs, being outcast, or even losing their lives.

However, one thing happened to Paul that changed his life for eternity. Many people would have wished the same thing had happened to Hitler, the perpetrators of the Rwanda genocide, or to any other people who still carry out such atrocities against Christians. In his regular activities as a persecutor of Christians, Paul encountered Christ on the way to Damascus. As the Bible puts it, “There shined round about him a light from heaven” (Acts 9:3).

The experience marked the complete turnaround of Paul to become a coworker with Christ. Many times, making a drastic change is difficult, partly because people are used to what they always do and partly because of the fear of the unknown. Paul did not have any plan to change. He was so engrossed in the atrocity of persecuting Christians and voting against them in legal setups. Little did he know that Jesus had a plan for him.

So much has changed since the conversion of Paul, but one thing remains clear: persecution of Christians because of their faith leads to a growth spurt in the church. This week we study about the conversion of Paul, who was once a persecutor and prosecutor of Christians but who eventually became one of the staunch followers of Christ. What can we learn from his life to help us with our discipleship journey today?

_Jackline Mwende, Nairobi, Kenya_