---
title:  The Inevitable Marks of Conversion
date:  29/07/2018
---

**Logos**: Acts 9:3–9

**Upon Conversion (Acts 9:3–9)**

The story of Paul teaches Christians what actually happens when a sinner is converted. Previously, Paul was a sinner, and according to human judgment, he would not be the right candidate for salvation. He was present at the open humiliation and stoning of Stephen (Acts 8:1). Afterward, he continued persecuting Christians and making the environment too volatile to spread the gospel.

However, the story of Paul’s conversion teaches us that God can transform the worst of sinners for His cause. From the moment Jesus revealed Himself to him to the time Paul regained his sight, important lessons stand out to confirm the true marks of conversion.

The Bible has already provided various tests regarding the quality and character of a person who truly accepts Christ as a personal Savior (see 1 Cor. 6:9–11; Gal. 5:19–21; Eph. 5:3–6; 1 Pet. 1:5–11). In Paul’s conversion, we can uncover the following lessons:

**Confessing Sins Upon Conversion (Luke 10:41; 22:31; 13:34)**

Sin binds us to a chain of slavery in which we continue persecuting Christ. With every act of sin that we commit, we take Christ up the rugged cross one more time. On the other hand, God wants us—Jesus is tenderly calling us by our names (see Luke 10:41; 22:31; 13:34). When Christ called Paul by his name (Acts 9:4), He wanted him to recognize his sins. Paul was happily engaged in the act of persecuting Christians. He did it without a second thought.

Unbelievably, Christ saw Paul in a dangerous position, like someone standing right on the edge of an abyss—just about to drop off. Sometimes, Christ can reveal Himself to us when we are in the middle of the worst of sins. When Christ called Paul, He wanted him to recognize his sins. After the blinding light and the subsequent question from Jesus, Paul answered humbly, “ ‘ Who are You, Lord?’ ” (verse 5, NKJV). The recognition of Christ as Lord is a sign that Paul was ready to do His will.

**Swallowing Pride Upon Conversion (Phil. 3:4–8)**

The world can give us privileges and so much power that we begin to think we are right in everything we do. Pride breeds all sins, and true followers of Christ must shun it at all costs. Paul had the backing of the Jewish community in his efforts to exterminate the newly born child—Christianity.

In spite of his esteemed background and education, Paul could not obtain salvation in his own righteousness. He had the power to arrest Christians and to vote against them in court, but after the episode on his way to Damascus, he had to humble himself at the foot of the cross of Jesus. We cannot trust in Christ for our salvation, if we continue to boast in our own powers.

Previously, Paul was a powerful person with a deep-rooted knowledge of the Jewish law. However, upon accepting Christ, he humbled himself before ordinary servants of Christ such as Ananias. Humility is not optional for a person who desires true conversion.

**Obeying the Authority of Christ Upon Conversion (Acts 9:5, 6)**

A deep realization of Jesus’ power dawns on Paul with the immediate answer, “ ‘I am Jesus, whom you persecute,’ ” (verse 5, GNT). Paul might have believed Jesus died forever; he mocked Christ’s followers at even the slightest mention that Jesus was the Messiah.

We only know worldly powers. We can think only of the presidents, prime ministers, kings, and governors of this world. Paul trusted more in the authority of the Jewish leaders. From the high priest, he obtained the permission to persecute Christians in Damascus.

However, after hearing the voice of Christ, Paul remembered what Christ’s followers had been declaring. He recognized the authority and power of Jesus. Every person who accepts Christ must recognize His power and authority and must obey Him regardless of the consequences.

**Experiencing Spiritual Transformation Upon Conversion (Gal. 2:20)**

One of the major changes that took place in Paul after conversion is the radical shift from spiritual blindness to spiritual sight. When Paul left Jerusalem for Damascus, he had physical sight but no spiritual sight. After the conversion, the opposite happened; He now had the spiritual sight to see things in a different light.

Spiritual transformation is a purification process, which enables a converted person to see things differently in the light of the knowledge of God, as revealed in the power and authority of Christ. After baptism, Paul received the Holy Spirit, and his life changed completely from its previous course. In Galatians 2:20, Paul confesses, “I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ lives in me, and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me” (JUB). That should be the confession of every converted sinner, every Christian.

**React**

`1. What are some of the actions that follow to show that a person has truly accepted Christ?`

`2. How can sinners come to the realization that God has done enough to save them?`

`3. While salvation is personal, what role does society play to keep us blind to the saving grace of Jesus?`

_Augenia Nzuve, Nairobi, Kenya_