---
title:  The U-Turn Sign
date:  31/07/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 9:9

The first account of Paul is recorded in Acts 8, in which he appears at the stoning of Stephen. The situation in Jerusalem was volatile for Christians, which led to their departure to neighboring locations such as Samaria, Judea, and Damascus. At this time, Paul is an outraged young person, totally against Christians. With the authority from Jewish priests, he goes to Damascus in search of Christians who fled there. His aim is to capture them and bring them back to Jerusalem for trial.

While on the mission to Damascus, Paul meets his conversion. Within a short span of time, several changes happen in his life before he begins his walk with Jesus. Three lessons are important for Christians, based on the events that surround Paul’s life during his conversion:

A change of name. After his encounter with Christ (Acts 9:1–9), his name changes to Paul, which could be a sign of something new taking place in his life. When a person accepts Christ, his or her identity changes, and he or she begins a new journey with Christ.

Anointment. Paul was not able to see, eat, or drink for three days. Then God sent Ananias to place his hands on Paul so that he could regain his sight. This was a form of anointment that the disciple carried out on Paul. The meaning of the Greek word translated as “anoint” is “to touch with the hand.”*

The Bible mentions the word anointing several times. In 2 Corinthians 1:21, 22, we learn about the real meaning of anointing where the Holy Spirit is given by God (NKJV). To begin a new journey with Christ, we also need the Holy Spirit, symbolized by Ananias granting sight to Paul.

Baptism. When Paul received back his sight, he was baptized and filled with the Holy Spirit. Baptism purified Paul to begin a new chapter in his life. Acceptance of Christ is incomplete without baptism, as recorded in Scripture. Baptism is a sign of repentance (Matt. 3:1–12); it is also a sign of conversion (Matt. 28:16–20).

After these three milestones, Paul swung into action. He started preaching right from Damascus. Once we are ready for Christ, there is no need to wait.

**React**

`We may not change our names as Paul did, but what are some of the things that we should leave behind once we accept Christ?`

_Joseph Mutuku, Makueni, Kenya_