---
title:  Overcoming the Challenges of a New Journey in Christ
date:  01/08/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 9:20–25

At first, the Jews considered them to be an offshoot sect belonging to a clique of Nazarenes. However, quite soon the followers of Christ met heavy opposition from the Jews. Jerusalem, which was the base of Christianity, became so unbearable for the apostles that they could no longer stay and preach the gospel. With the murder of Stephen and continued persecution of other believers, the flock scattered to various cities and regions. In the book of Acts, we can see apostles crossing racial barriers to spread the word, such as Philip teaching an Ethiopian official (Acts 8:26–32).

The apostles created new churches wherever they went. In Damascus, Judea, Antioch, Samaria, and other places, new believers joined the churches.

Seeing Paul in the company of Christians, most could not believe their eyes.

However, for Paul it was a new opportunity to witness for Christ and to bring more believers into His fold. In some instances, he took time to explain to the people how he came to know Jesus (Acts 22:6–16). Many times, the way people judge us is not how God judges us. If God judged like humans do, Paul would not have become a disciple of Christ.

The following important observations from the conversion of Paul can be of great help to Christians today:

God loves sinners. Our sins may be as red as scarlet, but the moment we accept Christ, He can wash them as white as snow. It is only important that we heed the call. He did it for Paul; He can do it for us today.

He never looked back. Paul heeded the call, accepted the instructions, and began to act. When God calls us, He has a purpose for our lives. We can be the worst material in the eyes of the world but the best in God’s eyes. It was never easy, but God was there for him. Opposition will start right from your home. The world expects you to behave in a certain way in order to fit in. The moment you accept God, He expects you to embrace new principles for a new life. Paul faced threats from people who were previously his aides, but God provided the power to overcome the challenges.

**React**

`1. How did you deal with opposition from your non-Christian friends when they realized you were a Christian?`

`2. Would you risk your life today for the sake of Christ? Why or why not?`

_Peter Musau, Nairobi, Kenya_