---
title:  The Results of Paul’s Conversion
date:  02/08/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 9:26

After Paul’s conversion, we can still see the forces of evil at work. In Jerusalem, his fellow citizens cannot believe that he is a disciple (Acts 9:29, NKJV). However, the power of good overcomes the forces of darkness, and Paul continues to preach the good news amid rejection and resistance.

The birth of Christianity was like the mustard seed (Matt. 13:31). It started small but grew tremendously to become a worldwide movement. The conversion of Paul served as a springboard from which the gospel spread to other parts of Judea and beyond. On the day of the great encounter with Jesus, Paul heard the voice saying, “ ‘Arise and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do’ ” (Acts 9:6, NKJV).

The upside of the conversion is that it set Paul on the right path to witness for Christ. Starting from Damascus, all the way back to Jerusalem, Paul invaded various territories with the gospel, boldly speaking of Christ as the Messiah. In the entire province of Asia, he traversed different towns and cities to help start new churches and to nurture new believers.

As young adults, we have the energy and vigor to complete the work that apostles like Paul started. From the moment we are baptized, we are charged with the responsibility to share the gospel with people and communities that have not received it. With the strength, knowledge, and talents that God has given each of us, we can advance the cause of the gospel before Christ’s return.

The result of Paul’s conversion was the tremendous growth of churches witnessed in Rome, Corinth, Ephesus, and many other places. Eventually, it led to the spread of Christianity worldwide. Even with the resistance he faced in his mission, Paul fully depended on God to provide and never compromised his faith for anything.

To the church, the conversion of Paul is a lesson that God looks at our future, not our past. In Jeremiah 29:11, the Bible says God has great plans for us, plans to give us prosperity (GNT) and a bright future. We may have committed various mistakes in the past, but it is now time to start a new journey with Jesus, to present His message properly to those who need it.

**React**

`What are some of the activities we can do in our communities to show that we have accepted Christ?`

_Josephine Mwilu, Kitengela, Nairobi, Kenya_