---
title:  The Chosen Instrument
date:  03/08/2018
---

**Exploration**: Gal. 1:1

**Conclude**

The work of an instrument is to accomplish a certain task. Paul accepted the call to be God’s instrument to spread the gospel to the world. From him, God made the best out of the worst. In many instances, God works with what people think is impossible. The story of Paul teaches us that no matter how bad we have been in the past, God is able to create us anew and to empower us to accomplish great spiritual tasks. As He chose Paul, God is still able to choose us as instruments for His cause in this generation.

**Consider**

- Creating a video of Paul’s conversion based on Acts 9:1–19. Choose to play the part of Paul in the video and find out how it inspires you to be a disciple of Jesus today.

- Gathering information on the life of Paul before he converted (check videos, scripts, Spirit of Prophecy writings, etc.). Compare the information from Paul’s previous life with his life after conversion, and notice the differences.

- Writing a story about your own conversion and comparing it with Paul’s conversion. What are the similarities and differences between the two stories?

- Asking members of your Sabbath School class how they became disciples of Christ. Using their responses, create a collage of stories that you can reflect on in your free time.

- Forming a prayer group to ask Jesus to reveal Himself to your community. List some of the insights you discover as you pray for God’s intervention.

- Rereading the story of Paul’s conversion and other similar stories in the Bible (Jonah 1:4–14). Consider what it might mean for you to leave your current duties and position to do God’s work.

**Connect**

2 Peter 1:3–7.

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 12, “From Persecutor to Disciple”; Sketches From the Life of Paul.

Ken Wade, Paul: A Spiritual Journey.

_Patrick Mwendwa, Nairobi, Kenya_