---
title: Almost Too Late
date: 14/09/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 25:1–13**

**Almost Too Late**

Some years ago, I was scheduled to speak at a youth conference in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. I arrived in the evening, and my first sermon was scheduled to take place the next morning. Hoping for some much-needed rest, I went to bed but couldn’t sleep. Because of jet lag, my internal clock didn’t match my new destination. Many hours passed as I twisted and turned, hoping just to doze off, but to no avail. As the early morning hours arrived, I decided it would be better to just try to stay awake so I would not miss my first speaking appointment. You can probably predict what happened next.

Suddenly, the phone ringing in my room jolted me from a deep sleep. The voice on the other end was insistent: “Pastor Daniel, please come immediately. You are scheduled to speak in fifteen minutes!” I jumped out of bed and dressed in record time. Thankfully, the convention center was located next to the hotel I where was staying. I ran through the corridors, and when I got closer to the auditorium where I was going to speak, the host and tech guys were already running toward me. They wired me up while I was still walking. Moments later, I was on stage and starting my sermon. I’m not sure if any of the attendees knew I had just woken up from a deep sleep. I do know I was happy I had made it just in time!

Have you ever been almost too late for a very important appointment? The “almost” part is what caused your heart rate to rise. It gave you a shot of adrenaline and made you run faster to make it just in time. In this lesson, we will look at a parable Jesus taught about being awake, present, and prepared for His second coming—the greatest appointment of all!

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 25:1–13 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `