---
title: Prepared for Delay
date: 15/09/2024
---

#### inGest

The parable of the wise and foolish maidens reflects the Jewish wedding customs in Jesus’ time. The wedding celebrations spanned several days. An important moment took place when the bridegroom arrived at the bride’s house to lead her to his family’s house. Many things could delay the bridegroom’s arrival at the bride’s house. In fact, a delay in the marriage procession was common. In the parable, the delay extended so long that all ten maidens fell asleep. When a messenger announced the bridegroom’s arrival, all ten maidens woke up startled, but only five of them had enough oil to relight their lamps. The wise maidens had prepared themselves for a delay. The foolish ones had also anticipated the bridegroom’s arrival, but they were not prepared for the delay. They were shortsighted, their preparations were insufficient, and their oil ran out.

The parable of the wise and foolish virgins is one narrative within a series of stories about delay. Another story of delay, where Jesus describes a group of servants waiting for their master’s return (Matt. 24:45–51), precedes the story of the wedding scene. The wise servant kept himself busy serving others, but the evil servant said in his heart, “My master is delaying his coming” (Matt. 24:48). He turned against his fellow servants and beat them. By the way he lived, the evil servant denied that his lord was returning.

A third parable that reinforces the need for faithfulness during this time of waiting and uncertainty (Matt. 25:14–30) follows the parable of the waiting virgins. This story teaches that we should be investing all our talents to expand the kingdom of God. Each parable provides a picture of Jesus coming back to this world. Some are prepared for His coming while others are not. These successive storylines reveal two opposite dangers for those who are waiting for Jesus to return. On the one hand, we must not live with the presumption that Jesus will delay His coming indefinitely, and on the other hand, we must resist the expectation that Jesus will come so soon that there is no need for patient endurance.

These parables come right after Jesus has given His famous end-time sermon, where the disciples asked Jesus what the sign of His coming would be (Matt. 24:3). He listed signs that will increase in frequency and intensity as the end approaches. The final sign is also a promise: “And this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world as a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come” (Matt. 24:14). The gospel of Jesus is the light of the world. We must use this time of waiting to spread the gospel message to the world. We are all responsible for investing our resources, time, and talents to advance the gospel.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How can we be ready for Jesus to come soon yet also be ready to wait for a long time?`

`What are the best ways to help people not lose hope in the Second Coming while we wait?`