---
title: Extra Oil
date: 16/09/2024
---

#### inTerpret

In the story of the ten maidens, Jesus illustrated what the church will experience just before His second coming. Through the parable, He distinguished between two classes of people who are waiting for His return. Jesus described many similarities and one major difference between the wise and foolish maidens. All ten were awaiting the bridegroom, all ten fell asleep during the time of waiting, all ten woke up once they heard the bridegroom coming, and all ten had put oil in their lamps. The only difference was that the five wise maidens had extra oil so they could refill their lamps. Had the bridegroom come earlier, no one would have noticed the difference between these two classes. The delay distinguished the wise from the foolish. This is a picture of the church looking forward to seeing Jesus.

This isn’t the only occasion God’s people have been found sleeping at a critical time. Three of Jesus’ closest disciples fell asleep when Jesus appeared in all His glory on the mount of transfiguration (Luke 9:32). Later, the same disciples fell asleep just after Jesus asked them to pray with Him in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jonah fell asleep on the ship carrying him away from the task God had called him to in Nineveh. Figuratively, the church today is sometimes sleeping when it should be awake to danger and preparing for Christ’s soon return. Paul warned, “And do this, knowing the time, that now it is high time to awake out of sleep; for now our salvation is nearer than when we first believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Therefore let us cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light” (Rom. 13:11, 12). The time before the Second Coming is the time when we should watch and pray more than ever before.

The key message of this parable to the church today is that we need extra oil as we await Jesus’ return. The lamps symbolize the Word of God. As the psalmist says, “Your word is a lamp to my feet And a light to my path” (Ps. 119:105). The oil is a symbol of the Holy Spirit. Oil was used to anoint prophets, priests, and kings. When Jesus started His earthly ministry, He quoted from the book of Isaiah and said, “The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, Because He has anointed Me to preach the gospel to the poor; He has sent Me to heal the brokenhearted, To proclaim liberty to the captives And recovery of sight to the blind, To set at liberty those who are oppressed; To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord” (Luke 4:18, 19). The Holy Spirit anointed Jesus to fulfill His task on this earth. In the same way, we need to be filled with the Holy Spirit to accomplish our purpose while we wait for Jesus to return.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`In what areas of your life do you need the Holy Spirit?`