---
title: The Son of Man
date: 18/09/2024
---

#### inVite

The parable of the wise and foolish maidens ends with the caution, “Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming” (Matt. 25:13). We must always be ready. While we wait, we are to let our lamps shine brightly in this dark world. We have a beautiful message for all the world to hear—the Bridegroom is coming! The Bible is full of promises that Jesus will return to this earth. His second coming will be unlike His first. He will not come as a baby in Bethlehem but as King of kings and Lord of lords. His coming will be glorious: “When the Son of Man comes in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then He will sit on the throne of His glory” (Matt. 25:31). Everyone living on this planet when He comes will see His splendid appearance: “Behold, He is coming with clouds, and every eye will see Him, even they who pierced Him” (Rev. 1:7). The climax of history will not be a secret for only a chosen few to see and hear.

The phrase “Son of Man,” which Jesus used in this parable, is the most frequent title He used for Himself in the gospels. It also appears in the prophetic Old Testament book of Daniel. In Daniel 7, the prophet sees four beasts that represent four earthly kingdoms. These earthly powers are portrayed as conquering and subduing people. Suddenly, the scene changes, and Daniel sees the throne room of heaven. He beholds a judgment in favor of those who have been oppressed. The Son of Man appears and is given a kingdom.

> <p></p>
> I was watching in the night visions, And behold, One like the Son of Man,
> <p></p>
> Coming with the clouds of heaven!
> <p></p>
> He came to the Ancient of Days,
> <p></p>
> And they brought Him near before Him.
> <p></p>
> Then to Him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom,
> <p></p>
> That all peoples, nations, and languages should serve Him.
> <p></p>
> His dominion is an everlasting dominion,
> <p></p>
> Which shall not pass away,
> <p></p>
> And His kingdom the one
> <p></p>
> Which shall not be destroyed. (Daniel 7:13, 14)

The Son of Man will set up an everlasting kingdom that will never be destroyed. All other nations will crumble before Him. The contrast between the temporary kingdoms of the world and God’s eternal kingdom could not be greater.

The Son of Man did not come to oppress but to uplift the weary. He came not to be served but to serve. His first crown was one of thorns. He has won our allegiance and is the only One who deserves our worship. The Son of Man united Himself with humanity. He left His glory to become one of us to conquer sin and death on our behalf. When we put our faith in Him, we are linked with His eternal kingdom. The Son of Man is the conqueror who shares His victory with His people.

`Why do you think Jesus called Himself the Son of Man? What does this communicate to you?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you personally through this week’s passage?`

`Prayer Response:`