---
title:  God Heals Our Broken Friendships
date:   01/12/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Colossians 4:10, 11; Philemon 1:1–25; 1 Corinthians 3:5–11; Romans 5:8–11

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Surely, now that we are God’s friends, God will save us through [because of] his Son’s life” (Romans 5:10, ICB).

EVEN AFTER GOD POURED HIS SPIRIT ON HIS CHURCH in New Testament times, friendships between believers were not always easy and peaceful. The Bible gives us examples of the way that church leaders and believers solved these problems. The rules they followed are very important for our church to understand today. When we follow these rules, then our friendships and connections with people will be a success. These rules also will help us have peace with each other in the church.

In this week’s lesson, we will look at how God heals our broken friendships and connections with other believers. We also will look at how these connections have the power to join us as one in Jesus. Part of the Holy Spirit’s work is to bring people closer to God and to each other. The Holy Spirit also breaks the “walls” in our connections that separate us from God and other believers. When our connections with each other are strong, then we are strong as a church. The best example of the truth that we as a church can show to other people is not what we say but the way we live. So, we must show God’s love (John 13:35). If we do not show God’s love in our lives, then nothing we say about the truth will convince anyone.
