---
title:  A Friendship Made New
date:   02/12/2018
---

Paul and Barnabas worked together. They witnessed for Jesus. Then they argued about John Mark. John Mark was Barnabas’ cousin. Paul and Barnabas argued because Paul did not think he could trust John Mark to stay with them in the future. John Mark got scared by the dangers all around them when they preached the Good News about Jesus. So, John Mark ran away from Paul and Barnabas and went home (Acts 13:13).

“When John Mark ran away, Paul judged John Mark. Paul was very disappointed with John Mark for a while. But Barnabas felt that John Mark behaved the way he did because he was young and did not have much experience. Barnabas was worried about John Mark. Barnabas did not want John Mark to stop doing God’s work. Barnabas saw many good things in John Mark that would make him a useful worker for Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 170, adapted.
God used all three men to do His work. But they were far from perfect. They needed to solve their problems. Paul preached the Good News about God’s mercy and forgiveness. Now Paul needed to show that same mercy and forgiveness to John Mark. John Mark grew strong under Barnabas’ care and teaching (Acts 15:39). After a while, Paul’s heart was touched by all the changes he saw in John Mark.

`Paul writes about John Mark in Colossians 4:10, 11 and 2 Timothy 4:11. How do Paul’s letters show us that Paul now trusted in John Mark?`

The Bible does not tell us exactly how God healed Paul’s broken friendship with John Mark. But we know that John Mark became one of Paul’s most trusted friends. Paul told the church at Colosse that John Mark was his coworker in sharing the Good News about Jesus. At the end of Paul’s life, Paul strongly encouraged Timothy to bring John Mark to Rome because John Mark was very helpful to Paul in doing God’s work (2 Timothy 4:11). Paul forgave John Mark. God broke the “wall” that separated these two men. Then they worked together to share the Good News about Jesus.

`How can we learn to forgive people who have hurt or disappointed us?`
