---
title:  From Slave to Son
date:   03/12/2018
---

While Paul is a prisoner in Rome, he meets a runaway slave named Onesimus. Onesimus runs away from Colosse to Rome. Paul knows who Onesimus’ owner is. That man’s name is Philemon. So, Paul writes his friend Philemon a letter. In his letter to Philemon, Paul works hard to heal a broken connection between his friend and the runaway slave.

Personal connections and friendships are important to Paul. Paul knows that broken connections and friendships hurt spiritual growth and agreement between believers in the church. Philemon is a church leader in Colosse. So, Philemon needs to let go of any bad feelings for Onesimus in his heart. Paul knows that bad feelings can destroy a person’s work for God.

`In Philemon 1:1–25, Paul talks about how important it is to heal broken friendships and connections. What important rules does Paul give us to follow as we try to heal our own broken connections?`

It may be surprising to us that Paul does not talk more strongly against slavery. But Paul does something else. He talks about the Good News. The Good News breaks all the different walls that separate us from each other (Galatians 3:28; Colossians 3:10, 11). Paul sends Onesimus back to Philemon. Paul does not send Onesimus back as Philemon’s slave. Paul sends Onesimus back as Philemon’s son in Jesus and as Philemon’s beloved brother in the Lord (Philemon 1:16).

Paul knows that runaway slaves do not have much hope for a happy future. Their lives will be hard. But now, Onesimus is Philemon’s brother in Jesus and a willing coworker. Onesimus can have a better future now. Philemon can offer him food, a safe place to sleep, and protect him while he works for the Lord. This healed connection will make a won- derful difference in Onesimus’ life. Onesimus became a loyal and beloved brother to Paul. He worked with Paul in sharing the Good News (Colossians 4:9). Paul very much wanted the broken connection between Onesimus and Philemon to be healed. Paul was even willing to pay Philemon for any money he lost when Onesimus ran away.

`What important rules does this story give us about how to heal our broken friendships and connections with other people?`
