---
title:  Spiritual Gifts and Church Agreement
date:   04/12/2018
---

`We already learned that the church at Corinth had deep problems. What important rules does Paul give us in 1 Corinthians 3:5–11; 1 Corinthians 12:1–11; and 2 Corinthians 10:12–15 to help heal broken friendships and damaged personal connections in the church?`

In these verses, Paul gives important rules for church unity. You will remember that unity is agreement. Jesus helps us to be in agreement with each other in heart, mind, and the truth. Paul says that Jesus uses different workers to do different jobs in the church. Together, all believers work to build up God’s kingdom (1 Corinthians 3:9).

God asks us to work **with** each other and **for** each other, not against each other. God gives each believer gifts to do His work in the church and to serve the community (1 Corinthians 12:11). There are no gifts that are better than other gifts. All gifts are needed in God’s church (1 Corinthians 12:18–23). Our God-given gifts are not for our selfish use. The Holy Spirit gives us these gifts to help us share the Good News about Jesus.

So, we should never say how we are better or worse than other people. These comparisons will make us feel too proud or feel bad about ourselves. If we think other people are better than we are, then we will feel awful about ourselves. It will be easy to lose hope about doing the work God gave us to do. Also, if we think our work for God is better than what other people do for Him, then we will feel too proud. That is wrong. No Christian should feel proud in his or her heart.

When we feel either too proud of ourselves or not good enough, we hurt the work we can do for Jesus. At the same time, we also hurt our connections with other people. So, here is what we should do. We should do the work that Jesus gives us to do. Then we will feel joy and peace. We will be good witnesses for Jesus because of our joy and peace. Our work for Jesus will not hurt the work that other members do for Him. Then Jesus’ church will do many wonderful works to build up His kingdom.

`Why must we not feel jealous of other believers or be too proud of our work for God? Why is it not good to compare ourselves with other believers?`
