---
title:  Forgiveness
date:   05/12/2018
---

What is forgiveness? When we forgive people who wronged us, does that mean we say their behavior is OK? Does my forgiveness of the person who hurt me depend on his or her saying sorry first? What if the person that I am upset with does not want my forgiveness?

`In Romans 5:8–11; Luke 23:31–34; 2 Corinthians 5:20, 21; and Ephesians 4:26, the New Testament writers talk about forgiveness. What do these verses say that helps us understand what forgiveness means?`

Jesus leads humans to join with God again. “God is kind to you so that you will change your hearts and lives” (Romans 2:4, ICB). While we were sinners, Jesus joined us with God again. Our sorrow for sin and confessing our sins do not join us as one with God. No. Only our faith in Jesus’ death on the cross does that. Our part is to accept Jesus’ death for us. It is true that we cannot feel happy about being forgiven until we confess to God our sins first. But that does not mean that our saying sorry for our sins somehow fills God’s heart with forgiveness for us. No. Forgiveness for us was in God’s heart all the time. But when we confess our sins, then God can give the forgiveness in His heart to us (1 John 1:9). So, we need to confess our sins. Confessing our sins is very important. It does not change God’s feelings about us. But it does change our feelings about God. When we let the Holy Spirit’s power into our hearts, then we are changed. He gives us the power to turn away from sin and to confess our sins.

Forgiveness also is important for our spiritual health. We must forgive people who wrong us, even when they do nothing to earn that forgiveness. If we do not forgive the people who hurt us, we will hurt ourselves. Our failure to forgive other people can hurt us more than it hurts them. When you fail to forgive the person who hurt you, the pain will grow inside you. By not forgiving this person, you are letting him or her hurt you even more. These feelings hurt the peace and agreement in God’s church.

Forgiveness is the same as freeing people from the punishment that they earned for the wrong they did. That is exactly what Jesus did for us on the cross. We can for- give people because God forgives us. We can love people because God loves us. Forgiveness is a choice we make.
