---
title:  God Joins Us as One and Gives Us Peace
date:   06/12/2018
---

`In Matthew 18:15–17, Jesus tells us three things we can do to help end disagreements that happen when someone in the church wrongs us. What are these three things? How can we use them in our everyday lives?`

Jesus gave the advice in Matthew 18 because He wanted to protect the peace in the church. He also wanted to stop problems from getting any bigger. He wanted to keep problems between believers in as small a group as possible. That is why Jesus wanted the two people who had the problem to try to solve the problem on their own first (Matthew 18:15). When more people get involved in a problem between two believers, then the danger for even more problems to happen is real. That also can hurt the peace and the agreement in the church. But when Christians try to solve their problems in private with love and understanding, then broken friendships can be healed. The Holy Spirit can work with them to help them solve their differences.

Sometimes, two people alone cannot work out their differences. So, Jesus invites us to take one or two other people with us. Jesus wants to join people again, not push them away even more from each other. So, we can follow this advice only if we have tried to work out our problems with the person who wronged us first. The one or two persons who join you are not coming with you to argue for you or to blame the person who hurt you. They come in Christian love to give advice and to pray in this important work of joining two people again in peace and Christian agreement.

Now sometimes, nothing we do to solve the problem works. So, Jesus tells us to take the problem in front of the church. He does not mean we get up in the middle of Sabbath School class and tell everyone our problem. The right place to bring up our problem is in a church board meeting. Jesus’ whole plan is meant to make peace.

“Do not let your bad feelings turn to hate. Do not allow the hurt that someone gave you to grow and become words of poison. These words will hurt the minds of the people you say them to. Do not allow hurt feelings and angry thoughts to continue to fill your mind and the mind of the person who hurt you. Go to him with a heart that has no pride in it. With a kind heart, talk to your brother in Jesus about the problem.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel [about the Good News] Workers, page 499, adapted.
