---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   07/12/2018
---

Read the article “Forgiveness,” pages 825, 826, in The Ellen G . White Encyclopedia.

“God’s workers need Jesus to live inside them. The selfish feelings in their hearts must die. God’s workers must turn away from wanting to be first. They must give up the wish to control other people in the church. They must be at peace with other believers in Jesus. They must allow God to make them holy. Then other people will see and feel their love. Then the Holy Spirit will pour on them the mercy and loving-favor that God promises to give the church. God’s promise to us will always come true.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 175, adapted.

“What must we do if we want to stand in front of God on that day when God judges all people? We must make Jesus our safe place. Jesus also must become our high tower. We must let go of all jealousy and the desire to be number one. We must completely destroy anything that makes us jealous and full of pride. These things are not holy. We must not allow them to spring up into life again in us. We must join ourselves completely with Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, Last Day Events [happenings], page 190, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**

`1 In Colossians 3:12–17, Paul talks about the way the Christian church should behave. What behavior does Paul encourage the church to have? Why must this behavior be at the heart of everything we do to solve problems in the church?`

`2 Read Colossians 3:12–17 again. Look at the teachings found in these verses. Why are these teachings so important to the church? How will they help church members to find agreement and peace?`

`3 What is the biggest problem in the Seventh-day Adventist church right now that stops us from having agreement? What can we do to have the agreement that we need to tell everyone on earth the Good News about Jesus? The Holy Spirit has the power to change our hearts so that the agreement we need can happen. Why must we ask the Holy Spirit for the power to change our lives?`
