---
title: The Empty Tomb
date: 21/12/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 20, 21**

**The Empty Tomb**

The Romans used crucifixion largely to punish slaves, criminals, and traitors to the empire. Ultimately, the charge of treason led to Jesus’ condemnation. If He had simply lived and then died as a self-proclaimed king, He most likely would have been only a small footnote in history. Crucifixion was a taboo form of punishment for the Jews because of what Deuteronomy 21:23 says. There are no examples of heroic Jewish martyrs who were crucified. It never became a symbol of Jewish suffering. The theological impact of the Deuteronomic text made that an impossibility. However, Jesus’ death was not the end of the story. His resurrection sheds light on the victorious nature of the cross and His role as the true King.

John drove home the importance of the resurrected Christ by recording three resurrection stories (John 20:1–18, 19–23, 24–31) in which many of the promises made in the farewell discourse (chaps. 14–17) were fulfilled. The disciples grew in their understanding of the meaning of Jesus’ death and the truth of His words. In an experience similar to ours today, the disciples did not immediately grasp the meaning of the most recent events. Their awareness developed progressively. Eventually, they came to understand the significance of what had occurred. Ultimately, the Gospel culminates with their role as witnesses to Jesus’ mission.

Each of the Gospel writers described the events of that Sunday morning. At times, the Gospels overlap in their accounts. John, as usual, brought a unique contribution to our understanding. We are indebted to John for several details, including the account of Thomas’ experience. Mary Magdalene went to the tomb in all four Gospels, but only John recorded her conversation with Jesus.

#### inScribe

Take some time to enter a relaxed and prayerful state of mind. Read through John 20. Read verses 24–29 three times. Before the second reading, ask God to speak to you about the passage. Write down your insights. Before the third reading, ask God to show you how to apply the passage to your life. Create an illustration or a mind map of what you discovered and be ready to share with your study group.

` `