---
title: Encountering the Risen Lord
date: 22/12/2024
---

#### inGest

Upon seeing the open tomb, Mary rushed to find Peter and John (John 20:1, 2). She longed to make sense of what was occurring. Her words, “we do not know” in verse 2 (emphasis added) suggest that the other women might have been present as well. However, John’s concern was solely with Mary and her actions. Her words to the two men reveal a combination of faith and confusion. She still referred to Jesus as Lord, but she was desperate to know why the tomb was open.

The two men raced to the tomb, and both noticed the linen wrappings lying there and the facecloth folded up by itself (vv. 3, 5–8). As a result, they both believed (v. 8). What exactly they believed is unclear as they still lacked an understanding of Scripture and Jesus’ resurrection (v. 9). The linen cloths remind the reader of the resurrection of Lazarus, who had still been bound when he walked out of the tomb (11:44). The disciples had a growing belief that, in some way, Jesus had broken the power of death. This was despite their inability to fully comprehend the resurrection. The entire concept was beyond their capacity to understand.

Their lack of comprehension is understandable. The Jews held no concept of a dying Messiah, let alone one who would rise from the dead. On the contrary, the Jews understood that there would be a resurrection at the final judgment—not before (11:24). The disciples could have venerated the tomb in honor of their Teacher, but a resurrection was totally unthinkable. The resurrection was totally unexpected despite Jesus’ allusions to it (Matt. 16:21; Mark 8:31). It is no surprise, then, that the disciples’ faith needed time to develop.

Left alone, Mary wept over the disappearance of the body (John 20:10, 11). Her tears blinded her to what was occurring. Too lost in her grief and confusion, she apparently said nothing when she saw two angels sitting in the tomb (v. 12). In answer to their question, she repeated her desire to know where “my Lord” was (note the more personal pronoun; v. 13). Then Mary saw someone she assumed to be the gardener (vv. 14, 15). She pressed him for information, and that’s when her world changed forever—for the second time. Jesus called her name, and she recognized her Lord (20:16). Mary was the first person Jesus appeared to after His resurrection (Mark 16:9).

Jesus told Mary not to detain Him, as He needed to ascend to His Father. His care for her is evident in His tarrying to speak with her. Before departing, Jesus gave Mary a commission: she needed to proclaim the good news to the other disciples.

#### Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 20, 21. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`For those who are lost in confusion and grief, what helpful lessons can we learn from the story of Mary?`

`Do you think we may face a similar situation someday where we witness events that are beyond our capacity to understand?`