---
title: Jesus and the Disciples
date: 23/12/2024
---

#### inTerpret

The next two scenes draw our attention to Jesus’ first interaction with a larger group of disciples. John was explicit in revealing the day, the time, and the motive for the disciples’ gathering. Their fear suggested that they did not believe Mary’s report. John didn’t explain how Jesus made His entrance undetected. Walls and doors are apparently no obstacle to Him. Christ’s resurrected body, while not ghostly, has characteristics different from ours. Using a greeting of peace, Jesus directly addressed their fear (John 20:19; 14:27). No matter the circumstances, peace and kindness should characterize Christ’s followers.

Their reaction, much like Mary’s, was one of gratitude and rejoicing. Jesus repeated the greeting of peace and then gave them the commission. He sent them just as His Father sent Him (20:21; 17:18). To ensure their success, Jesus breathed on them the Holy Spirit (20:22). It’s important to recognize that, in the original text, the word “them” (20:22) does not appear. The Holy Spirit was a gift not only to those in the room but also to the entire body of disciples—including us today.

Absent from this meeting was Thomas, one of the original twelve. No reason is given for why he wasn’t there. His reaction, however, is distinctly recorded. Upon hearing the amazing news, he reacted with unbelief. The Greek suggests that the disciples kept telling him what they witnessed, but he insisted on needing physical evidence. At first glance, this appears unwarranted. Upon reflection, however, we can see that Thomas was like the other disciples. They too initially disbelieved Mary’s words. Only when they had physical proof did they accept the good news. Thomas requested no more than they did, though his request was much more graphic.

The narrative picks up one week later. John took pains to demonstrate that the setting was the same as at the first meeting (i.e., locked doors, evening meeting, Jesus’ greeting). The significant difference is Thomas’ presence. After appearing, Jesus invited Thomas to examine the evidence by not only sight but also touch. He encouraged the disciple to set aside his unbelief (vv. 26, 27). Frequently, Thomas is nicknamed “doubting Thomas.” It’s true that Thomas was filled with confusion and doubt. However, focusing on this causes us to miss a more important point: Jesus’ abundant grace to move Thomas toward faith. Thomas’ leap of faith was demonstrated by his cry, “My Lord and my God!” (v. 28). This is the strongest statement of Jesus’ identity in the Gospel.

Using this as an example, John addressed all those who believe. Having seen the risen Christ is not a prerequisite for belief. The entire gospel is written to strengthen our weak faith and graciously guide us into a firm belief.

#### Journal:

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks seem to point to overall?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`In what areas do you struggle with unbelief? What resources or friendships can you invest in that will help you overcome this doubt?`