---
title: The Story Continues
date: 25/12/2024
---

#### inVite

The final chapter of John describes Jesus’ next revelation to the disciples. The disciples had returned to Galilee and gathered by the Sea of Tiberias. In need of a livelihood and with a love for the sea, Peter announced that he was going fishing. The other disciples quickly joined him. But their plan failed. They spent a fruitless night attempting to catch fish. As daylight broke, they saw a figure on the beach but didn’t recognize Him. As readers, we are aware that this is Jesus (cf. John 20:14, 15).

When the disciples followed Jesus’ instructions, the night of frustration turned into a day of exultation. There were so many fish that the men couldn’t pull the nets into their boat (21:6, 8, 11). This immense haul was another small reflection of the abundant grace bestowed on humanity that was manifested in Christ’s life (1:14; 2:1–11; 6:1–14). Christ provides more than we need.

As the disciples came to shore, Jesus invited them to bring some of the fish they had caught and add it to what He had already prepared (21:9–14). Besides what Jesus provided for them, they made their own contribution. This points to the ongoing work the disciples would do as an extension of Christ’s work (14:12)—yet even the fish contributed by the disciples came from Jesus, who had miraculously filled their nets only moments before. Our best work always finds its source in Christ. As the disciples drew in the fish, so Jesus draws all to Himself (6:44; 12:32).

The book closes with Christ questioning and appealing to Peter. After his fall, Peter needed to be restored and assured. Peter’s triple denial was eclipsed by a three-fold affirmation and a triple charge. Each question began solemnly with Peter’s full name. Jesus’ first question addressed Peter’s former boasting that he would remain faithful even if others did not (13:37; Mark 14:29). In contrast to his earlier confidence, Peter’s answers were filled with humility. In response, Jesus gave Peter a special commission and alluded to his death, when he would truly be ready to die for Christ’s sake (John 21:18, 19). Peter would finally express his deep love and loyalty by yielding his life.

Peter then asked about John’s future. Jesus answered that whether John lived to see Christ’s return wasn’t Peter’s concern. A misunderstanding occurred as a result, with the rumor spreading that John would not die before the Second Coming. Writing in his old age, John dispelled this myth so that his death would not be a stumbling block to waiting believers.

John’s witness continued throughout his life and multiplied after his death through the testimony he recorded for us. Today, Jesus is still calling disciples and still looking for witnesses. As disciples of Christ today, may we also believe fervently and love deeply, as did the first disciples.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 20, 21 again and look for where Jesus is.

`Do we generally have a keen sense of God’s abundant gifts toward us, or do we feel that God is more restrictive? Why?`

`When we mess up, how can we move past the guilty feeling that often endures long after God has granted us forgiveness?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`