---
title: The Witnesses
date: 26/12/2024
---

#### inSight

“Mary had followed John and Peter to the tomb; when they returned to Jerusalem, she remained. As she looked into the empty tomb, grief filled her heart. Looking in, she saw the two angels, one at the head and the other at the foot where Jesus had lain. ‘Woman, why weepest thou?’ they asked her. ‘Because they have taken away my Lord,’ she answered, ‘and I know not where they have laid Him.’

“Then she turned away, even from the angels.... Another voice addressed her, ‘Woman, why weepest thou?...’ Through her tear-dimmed eyes, Mary saw the form of a man, and thinking that it was the gardener, she said, ‘Sir, if thou have borne Him hence, tell me where thou hast laid Him, and I will take Him away.’ If this rich man’s tomb was thought too honorable a burial place for Jesus, she herself would provide a place for Him. There was a grave that Christ’s own voice had made vacant, the grave where Lazarus had lain. Might she not there find a burial place for her Lord? She felt that to care for His precious crucified body would be a great consolation to her in her grief” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [1898], 789, 790).

“The disciples began to realize the nature and extent of their work. They were to proclaim to the world the wonderful truths which Christ had entrusted to them. The events of His life, His death and resurrection, the prophecies that pointed to these events, the sacredness of the law of God, the mysteries of the plan of salvation, the power of Jesus for the remission of sins,—to all these things they were witnesses, and they were to make them known to the world....

“The Holy Spirit was not yet fully manifested; for Christ had not yet been glorified. The more abundant impartation of the Spirit did not take place till after Christ’s ascension.... But the Spirit was now given for a special purpose. Before the disciples could fulfill their official duties in connection with the church, Christ breathed His Spirit upon them. He was committing to them a most sacred trust, and He desired to impress them with the fact that without the Holy Spirit this work could not be accomplished” (Ibid., 805).

“How many today are like Peter! They are interested in the affairs of others, and anxious to know their duty, while they are in danger of neglecting their own.... John lived to be very aged. He witnessed the destruction of Jerusalem, and the ruin of the stately temple,—a symbol of the final ruin of the world. To his latest days John closely followed his Lord. The burden of his testimony to the churches was, ‘Beloved, let us love one another;’ ‘he that dwelleth in love, dwelleth in God, and God in him’ (1 John 4:7,16)” (Ibid., 816).

#### Journal:

`After this week’s study, what are some personal applications you are convicted of in your life?`

`What are some practical applications you must make in your school, family, workplace, and church life?`

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`