---
title: inQuire
date: 27/12/2024
---

#### inQuire

Share insights from your study this week. Include any questions you might have for the group, as well as discoveries, observations, and new understandings. Below are some questions for discussion with the rest of your study group.

`What would you say to someone who feels that the resurrection couldn’t have happened because miracles can’t happen?`

`What’s the significance of the resurrected Jesus choosing to appear first to Mary Magdalene rather than to Peter, John, Caiaphas, Pilate, or someone else?`

`How do you think the disciples felt when Jesus first visited them after the resurrection? (John 20:19, 20; Luke 24:36–39.) How did Jesus address their concerns?`

`How patient was Jesus with His unbelieving disciples? (John 20:25–29.) How does Jesus relate to us when we struggle with doubt?`

`Jesus chose fearful, doubting disciples as His witnesses. Does this change how you see God’s ability to use you?`

`What opportunities was Peter given to demonstrate the depth of his love for Jesus? (John 21:15–19.)`

`How likely are we today to get drawn into unhelpful questions and topics? (John 21:21, 22; 1 Tim. 1:4.)`

`What was John’s purpose in writing his gospel account (John 20:31)?`

`After spending the quarter studying the Gospel of John, share three insights that have impacted your understanding of Jesus’ mission.`

`How does Christ’s resurrection power affect your life personally?`

`How has God abundantly provided for both your temporal and spiritual needs, as He did for the disciples?`