---
title:  Retributive Punishment
date:   05/11/2016
---

### Sabbath afternoon
### Read for This Week’s Study:

Job 8:1–22, Isa. 40:12–14, Job 11:1–20, Gen. 6:5–8, 2 Pet. 3:5–7.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “ ‘Can you search out the deep things of God? Can you find out the limits of the Almighty?’ ” (Job 11:7, NKJV).

THE PROBLEM OF HUMAN SUFFERING surely con- tinues to trouble humanity. We know that “good” people suffer terrible hardships, while evil people go unpunished in this life. A few years ago a book called Why Do Bad Things Happen to Good People? came out. It tried to  nd a satisfactory answer to that problem. It did not. Many other writers and thinkers over thousands of years have written of their struggle to understand human suffering. They have not found the right answers.

Human suffering, of course, is the theme of the book of Job. In it we continue to study why even “good” people, such as Job, suffer in this world. The very important differ- ence between the book of Job and other books that deal with suffering is that the book of Job does not depend on human understanding of suffering. (But we do get plenty of that in the book.) Instead, the Bible gives us God’s under- standing of the problem.

This week we read more speeches from the men who came to Job in his suffering. What can we learn from them, especially from their mistakes as they try to deal with the problem of pain?

##### Definitions
1. **retributive** — having to do with punishment for a wrong that was done in the past.