---
title:  More Changes
date:   06/11/2016
---

### More Changes
#### (Job 8:1–22)

Getting a scolding from Eliphaz is bad enough. But then Job also gets one from Bildad, who says many of the same things that Eliphaz says. But Bildad is rougher on Job than even Eliphaz is. Imagine going up to someone whose children have died and saying to the person, “ ‘Your children sinned against him [God]. So he punished them for their sin’ ” (Job 8:4, NIrV). 

Bildad’s words are puzzling because the first chapter of Job (Job 1:5) makes it clear that Job offered sacrifices for his children. He did so in case they had sinned. So we find a sharp difference here between an understanding of grace2 (Job’s actions) and Bildad’s opening words. Bildad’s words show a rough legalistic3 attitude (thought or feeling) toward sinners and belief that the deaths of Job’s children were just and fair because they must have sinned against God. Even worse, Bildad speaks this way when he tries to defend the character (thoughts; feelings; actions) of God. 

`Read Job 8:1–22. What is Bildad’s argument? And how much truth is he speaking? Suppose you were to forget the meaning of his words and just look at his feelings. What fault could you then find with his words?`

Can we really find fault with so much of what Bildad is saying here? After all, no one would argue against the truth that the godless person, who puts hope in earthly, worldly things, really is trusting in something no stronger than a “spider’s web” (Job 8:14). You could not have a stronger biblical principle (important rule) than that.

Perhaps the biggest problem is that Bildad mentions only one part of God’s character (who God is). For example, someone can focus only on law and justice and obedience, while someone else can focus on grace and forgiveness. Going too far to either side or focus usually leads to a wrong picture of God and of truth. We find the same problem here.

`As humans we should always work for the right balance between law and grace in what we believe and when we deal with others. Suppose you were to make a mistake on one side (grace) or the other (law) when dealing with someone’s faults (as humans we will, at some point). Then, on which side would it be better to be when dealing with the faults of others? Why?`

*The person who puts hope in earthly, worldly things really is trusting in something no stronger than a spider’s web.*

##### DEFINITIONS

2.	**grace** — God’s gift of mercy and forgiveness that He freely gives us to take away our sins.
3.	**legalistic** — having to do with the belief that you can earn salvation through obeying the law.