---
title:  Less Than Your Iniquity (Sin) Deserves
date:   07/11/2016
---

### Less Than Your Iniquity (Sin) Deserves 
#### (Job 11:1–20)

`“ ‘Do you know how deep the mysteries of God are? Can you discover the limits of the Mighty One’s knowledge? They are higher than the heavens. What can you do? They are deeper than the deepest grave. What can you know? They are longer than the earth. They are wider than the ocean’ ” (Job 11:7–9, NIrV; read also Isaiah 40:12–14). What truth is shown in these verses? And why is it important for us always to remember it?`

The words here are a beautiful example of the fact that there is so much about God we do not know. They also show that all our efforts to search Him out by ourselves will still leave us knowing so little. One of the twentieth century’s most famous philosophers4 was the late Richard Rorty. He argued that we are never going to understand life and truth. So he said that we should give up trying. Instead of trying to understand life and truth, Rorty argued, all we can do is try to “live” with the mysteries. How interesting! Two thousand six hundred years of Western thought ends in this confession of defeat. Suppose all our searching leaves us in the dark about the nature of the real world that we live in. Then who “by searching” is going to understand that the Creator God is the one who made the life we live? And God is even greater than all He created and life as we know it! Rorty really just supported what we just read from the Bible. 

Yet, these verses, deep as they are, are from a speech from Zophar. He is the third of Job’s friends. He uses those words as part of a faulty argument against Job. 

`Read Job 11:1–20. What is right with what Zophar is saying? But what is wrong with his overall argument?` 

It is so hard to understand how someone could come up to a man suffering as Job is and say to him, “You are getting what you deserve. No, in fact, you are getting less than you deserve.” What is even worse is that Zophar is doing what Eliphaz and Bildad did. All of them are trying to defend the goodness and the character of God. 

`Sometimes just knowing truths about the character of God does not automatically make us show it. What more do we need in order to show God’s character?`

*All our efforts to search out God by ourselves will still leave us knowing little.*

##### DEFINITIONS

4.	**philosophers**—people who study ideas about knowledge, truth, and the nature and meaning of life.