---
title:  God's Punishment for Wrongdoing
date:   08/11/2016
---

### God's Punishment for Wrongdoing

#### (Genesis 6:5–8)

No doubt, Job’s three friends had some knowledge about God. And they meant well in their efforts to defend Him too. They may have been wrong in their thoughts and feelings about Job’s situation. But these men also spoke some important truths.

The main idea of their arguments was that God is a God of justice and that sin brings God’s just (fair) punishment upon evil and special blessings upon goodness. We do not know the exact time that the men lived. But we accept that Moses wrote the book of Job while he was in Midian. So we think these men lived sometime before the Exodus. And we believe, too, that they lived after the Flood. 

`Read Genesis 6:5–8. We do not know how much these men (Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar) knew about the Flood. But suppose they did know about it. How might its story have influenced what they believed to be true about God?`

Clearly the story of the Flood is an example of God’s just punishment for sin. In it, God directly brings punishment upon those who really deserved it. Yet, the idea of grace is shown in Genesis 6:8. Ellen G. White wrote, too, of the fact that “every [hammer] blow struck [hit] upon the ark was preaching to the people.”—The Spirit of Prophecy,5 volume 1, page 70. Anyway, we can find in this story an example of what these men were preaching to Job.

`How is this same idea of God’s just judgment seen in Genesis 13:13; Genesis 18:20–32; and Genesis 19:24, 25?`

Whether or not Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar knew much about these events, the events show how real God’s judgment upon evil is. God is not just leaving sinners to their sin. Nor is He letting sin destroy them. As with the Flood, God is directly responsible for their punishment. He is the Judge and Destroyer of wickedness and evil. 

`We want very much to (and should) focus on God’s character of love, grace, and forgiveness. But why must we not forget how real His justice is too? Think about all the evil that has yet gone unpunished. What should this tell us about how necessary God’s punishment is, even though it may not always happen right away?` 

*“Every [hammer] blow struck upon the ark was preaching to the people.”*

##### DEFINITIONS

5.	**Prophecy**—special message from God to His people. The Spirit of Prophecy is a group of books written by Ellen G. White.