---
title:  If the Lord Creates a New Thing
date:   09/11/2016
---

### If the Lord Creates a New Thing

#### (Numbers 16:28–30)

Many examples of direct punishment by God upon evil are written in the Bible. Many blessings for faithfulness are written there too. These were written long after all the characters in the book of Job were dead. 

`In Deuteronomy 6:24, 25, what great promise is given for obedience?` 

The Old Testament is filled with promise after promise of the blessings and rewards that God would directly bring to His people if they were to obey Him. So we can find here examples of what these men had said to Job about how God blesses the faithfulness of those who seek6 to obey Him and His commandments. Those who seek to live a godly and upright life also are blessed. 

Of course, the Old Testament also is filled with warnings about God’s just punishment for those who disobey. In the Old Testament, God made a covenant (promise) with Israel at Sinai. Afterward, God warned the Israelites about what would happen if they disobeyed Him. “ ‘But you must not disobey him [God]. You must not say no to his commands. If you do, his powerful hand will punish you. That’s [that is] what happened to your people who lived before you’ ” (1 Samuel 12:15, NIrV).

`Read Numbers 16:1–33. What does this event teach about how real God’s just punishment is?`

The rebels were destroyed. Their punishment was terrible. So it does not make sense to believe in the idea of “sin bringing its own punishment.” These people faced just punishment from God for their sin and rebellion (war against God). In this case, we find unusual examples of God’s power. It seems that the very laws of nature themselves were changed. “ ‘But the Lord will make something totally new happen. The ground will open its mouth and swallow them up. It will swallow up everything that belongs to them. They will go down into the grave alive. When that happens, you will know that those men have made fun of the Lord’ ” (Numbers 16:30, NIrV). 

Here, the verb “make” (“creates” [NKJV]) is from the same root word used for “created” in Genesis 1:1. The Lord wants everyone to know that it is He Himself who quickly and directly brings this punishment upon the rebels.

*The Lord Himself quickly and directly brought this punishment upon the rebels.*

##### DEFINITIONS

6.	**seek**—to try to get or achieve; to make an attempt to do something.