---
title:  The Second Death
date:   10/11/2016
---

### The Second Death

#### (2 Peter 3:5–7)

Certainly the greatest and most powerful example of God’s judgment will be at the end of time, when all the wicked are to be destroyed. The Bible calls it “the second death” (Revelation 20:14). This death must not be confused with the death common to all people from Adam to the end of time. The second Adam (Jesus) will save righteous (holy) people from death at the end of time (1 Corinthians 15:26). The second death, like some of the other punishments seen in Old Testament times, is God’s just punishment upon sinners who have not repented (turned away from sin) and received salvation in Jesus. 

`Read 2 Peter 3:5–7. What is the Word of God telling us about the final end of the lost?`

“Fire comes down from God out of heaven. The earth is broken up. The ‘weapons’ hidden deep in the earth flow out. Fire bursts from every hole in the ground. The very rocks are on fire. The day has come that shall burn as an oven. All things melt with great heat, the earth also, and the works that are therein are burned up. Malachi 4:1; 2 Peter 3:10. The earth’s surface seems one huge, flaming lake of fire. It is the time of the judgment and destruction of ungodly men—‘the Lord has set aside a day to pay Edom7 back. He has set aside a year to pay them back for what they did to the city of Zion.’ Isaiah 34:8, NIrV.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy [War Between Christ and Satan], pages 672, 673.   

Sin can bring its own punishment. But there surely are times that God Himself directly punishes sin and sinners, just as Job’s friends claim that He does. It is true that all suffering in this world has come from sin. But it is not true that all suffering is God’s punishment for sin. That was surely not the case with Job, nor in most other cases too. The fact is that we are involved in the great controversy. And we have an enemy who is out to do us harm. But the good news is that we know that God is there for us. There are reasons for the troubles and suffering we face. But we have the assurance (promise) of God’s love. This love is so great that Jesus went to the cross for us. That act of His alone promises to end all suffering. 

`How can we be sure that someone’s suffering is direct punishment from God? If we cannot be sure, then what is the best way for us to deal with that suffering person? Or even with our own suffering?`

##### DEFINITIONS

7.	**Edom**—a word picture or symbol for those who are rebels against God’s law.