---
title:  Further Thought
date:   11/11/2016
---

#### Further Thought

As said earlier in this quarter, it is important to try to put ourselves in the place of Job and his friends in the story. Doing so can help us understand their feelings, reasons, and actions. They were not aware of the battle going on in heaven as we are. If we put ourselves in their shoes, it should not be that hard for us to understand the mistake that Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar made about Job’s suffering. They were making a judgment that they were not supposed to make. 

“It is very natural for humans to think that terrible events are a result of great crimes and awful sins. But men often make a mistake in measuring character. We are not living in the time of God’s just judgment. Good and evil are mixed, and terrible events come upon all. Sometimes men do pass the boundary line that places them outside God’s protective care. Then Satan uses his power upon them, and God may not step in. Job suffered greatly, and his friends tried to make him accept that his suffering was the result of sin and that his sin caused his great suffering. Job’s friends judged him to be a great sinner. But the Lord was not pleased with them for their judgment of His faithful servant.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 3, page 1140. 

We need to be careful of how we deal with the whole question of suffering. Sure, in some cases it seems easier to understand the reasons for it. For example, someone smokes cigarettes and gets lung cancer. How much simpler could it be? But what about those who smoke all their lives and never get cancer? Is God punishing the one but not the other? In the end, like Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar, we do not always know why suffering comes as it does. In a way, it almost does not matter if we know or not. What is important is what we do in answer to the suffering that we find. Here is where these three men were totally wrong.

#### Discussion Questions:
- `What does God’s just punishment teach us about how we can trust in the fairness of God?`
- `Job’s three friends really did not understand all that was happening to Job in his suffering. In a way, is that not the case with us all? We do not understand fully the reasons for human suffering. So how should this understanding help us be more merciful to those who are suffering? How important is it really that we even know the true causes of someone’s suffering?`
