---
title:  The Old Testament Hope
date:  15/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Job 19:25–27; Psalm 49; Psalm 71; Isaiah 26:14, 19; Daniel 12.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “God tested [gave a test to] Abraham’s faith. God told him to offer Isaac as a sacrifice [burnt offering]. Abraham obeyed because he had faith. He already had the promises from God. And God had already said to him, ‘It is through [from the family line of] Isaac that your descendants [future family members] will come.’ But Abraham was ready to offer his only son. He did this because he had faith. He believed that God could raise [wake up] people from death. And really, when God stopped Abraham from killing Isaac, it was as if he got him back from death” (Hebrews 11:17–19, ERV).

THE OLD TESTAMENT teaches us about the resurrection. The resurrection is the time when God will wake up His dead followers at the Second Coming. This teaching fills us with hope. Our hope in the resurrection does not come from Greek ideas that the spirit continues to live after the body dies. No, our hope in the resurrection comes from the Bible.

But how does the resurrection happen? How can a body that is burned to ashes or that rots in the grave come alive again? How can someone who has been dead for thousands of years wake up? When God spoke, His word made life happen from nothing (Genesis 1; Psalm 33:6, 9). So, why should we not believe that He can make life new again?

This week, we look at what some Old Testament writers say about the final resurrection.