---
title:  “ ‘i Will See God’ ” 
date:  16/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read what Job says about death in Job 19:25–27. Compare Job’s words with John 1:18 and 1 Timothy 6:16. When did Job expect to “see God” (Job 19:26, 27, ERV)?`

Life isn’t fair. Often, good people suffer while evil people get rich and succeed (read Psalm 73:12–17; Malachi 3:14–18). Look at poor Job. Job “was a good, honest man. He respected God and refused to do evil” (Job 1:1, ERV). But God allowed Satan to cause Job to suffer in several terrible ways. Satan gave Job painful sores all over his body (Job 2:1–8). Most of Job’s farm animals and servants died (Job 1:13–17). Job’s children also died (Job 1:18, 19). Job’s friends thought God was angry with Job (Job 4:1–Job 5:27; Job 8:1–22; Job 11:1–20, and so on). Job’s own wife said to her husband, “ ‘Are you still holding on to your faith? Why don’t you just curse God and die!’ ” (Job 2:9, ERV).

Job doesn’t know that he is in the middle of the worldwide war between God and Satan. Job’s suffering is terrible. Job wishes he never was born (Job 3:1–26). But Job refuses to stop trusting in God. We see Job’s strong faith when he says, “ ‘I will continue to trust God even if he kills me’ ” (Job 13:15, ERV). Job believes his life is going to end soon. But Job believes that he will see God with his own eyes some day (Job 19:25–27). “These verses show us proof that Job believes in the resurrection. That is, Job believes that God will wake him up from the dead.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 3, page 549, adapted.

The belief in the resurrection gives Job hope in his suffering. Job is sick and in pain. He has lost so much of his stuff and also his children. Job’s friends think the worst about him. Job’s heart is broken. But Job doesn’t give up hope that God will save him. On that day, Job will look into the face of his beloved Savior. Job’s heart is filled with the same hope that fills Martha’s heart thousands of years later when she says to Jesus: “ ‘I know he [Lazarus, Martha’s brother] will rise again. This will happen when people are raised from the dead on the last day” (John 11:24, NIrV). Soon Jesus will give Martha powerful proof for her belief. But Job must hold on to God’s promise by faith.

How can we learn to trust God when life isn’t fair?