---
title:  “from The Power Of The Grave” 
date:  17/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 49. Why is the writer of Psalm 49 so sure that God will resurrect him or wake him up from the dead at the Second Coming? Compare this psalm writer’s faith to the people who die without any hope that they will live again. How are they different from each other?`

Psalm 49 talks about the fools who “trust in their money. They brag about their riches” (Psalm 49:6, ICB). They also name their “lands after themselves [their own names]” Psalm 49:11, NIrV). They live only to get rich and be praised. They behave as if their houses and their own glory will continue forever (Psalm 49:11, 17, 18).

But the fools forget that praise and life will end. These people will die the same as animals do (Psalm 49:12).

“Like [just the same as] sheep, they must die. And death will be their shepherd. Honest people will rule [have success] over them in the morning. Their bodies will rot in a grave far from home” (Psalm 49:14, ICB).

Hundreds of years earlier, Job said the same thing: “ ‘I was naked [wearing no clothes] when I was born. And I will be naked when I die’ ” (Job 1:21, ICB; 1 Timothy 6:7). The writer of Psalm 49 says that both the fool and the wise man die, and other people get their riches (Psalm 49:10).

But there is a big difference between the foolish man and the wise man. The fool dies, but he has no hope. He lived for this life only. He tried to find his self-worth in his riches and his success. The wise man looks beyond the grave. He sees the reward that God promises him (1 Peter 1:4). That is why the writer of Psalm 49 says, “But God will pay the price to save me from the grave. He will take me to be with him” (Psalm 49:15, ERV).

The writer of Psalm 49 is not saying that when he dies his spirit will fly to heaven right away. The writer is saying that he will not stay in the grave forever. A time will come when God will save him from death. Then God will take him to heaven. Psalm 49 gives us hope in the resurrection. That is the time when God will wake up His people from the dead. At that time, the wise will get a better reward than the foolish got during this short life.

`In what ways do you see the mistakes of people who trust in riches and success? How can keeping your eyes on the cross protect you from making this same mistake?`