---
title:  “from This Pit Of Death!” 
date:  18/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 71. What does Psalm 71 teach us when we read: “lift me up from this pit of death!” (Psalm 71:20, ERV)?`

The man in Psalm 71 seeks safety and hope with God. Enemies and accusers crowd him. They lie to him. They say God has left him alone forever (Psalm 71:10, 11).

The man in Psalm 71 feels comfort and peace when he thinks about how God cared for him in the past. First, the man knows that God took care of him since he was born (Psalm 71:6). Then the man says that God is his Teacher. God taught him since he was a youth.

The man in Psalm 71 knows that God is his strength and keeps him safe. That is why the man says, “Be my place of safety where I can always come. Give the command to save me. You are my rock and my strong, walled city” (Psalm 71:3, ICB). And he writes “Do not reject me when I am old. Do not leave me when my strength is gone” (Psalm 71:9, ICB). He also adds, “God, don’t leave me! My God, hurry and help me!” (Psalm 71:12, ERV). And the writer of the psalm says, “You have let me see troubles and hard times, but you will give me new life; you will lift me up from this pit of death!” (Psalm 71:20, ERV).

What does “you will lift me up from this pit of death” really mean? Is the man in Psalm 71 talking about the resurrection? The resurrection happens when God will wake him up from the dead. The psalm writer uses this word picture to show us his feelings. He feels very sad. He compares his feelings to falling into a deep pit (compare with Psalm 88:6 and Psalm 130:1). So, we can say that “ ‘this pit of death’ is a word picture. But the word picture also suggests the idea of the resurrection or waking up from the dead.”—Andrews Study Bible, note on Psalm 71:20, p. 726, adapted.

Psalm 71 teaches us that God cares for us. Psalm 71 also teaches us that we don’t find our hope in this life. We find it in the life to come. That hope is everlasting life. Jesus will give us this life after He resurrects us or wakes us up from the dead at the Second Coming.

`How has the Lord been with you in the past? Why do we need to remember how God takes care of us? How can those memories help you to trust in Him when life is hard?`