---
title:  “your Dead Will Live” 
date:  19/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Compare Isaiah 26:14 with Isaiah 26:19. Isaiah talks about the people who will stay dead forever and the ones who will get everlasting life. How are these two groups of people different? (Read also Malachi 4:1).`

Isaiah 26 talks about what will happen in the future. The evil people will stay dead after the “second death” (Revelation 21:8, ERV). The second death happens after the 1,000 years in heaven, which start after the Second Coming. When the 1,000 years end, Jesus and His people will come back to the earth with the Holy City. Then Jesus will wake up the dead evil people. The evil ones will be destroyed forever: “Those dead lords will not come to life. Those ghosts will not rise from death. You decided to destroy them, and you destroyed everything that makes us think about them” (Isaiah 26:14, ERV). This verse supports the Bible teaching that there are no spirits that stay alive after death. Later, the Lord tells His special messenger Malachi the same thing: “ ‘That time of judgment [the day when God will judge the living and the dead] is coming. It [the day when God judges] will be like [the same as] a hot furnace [very hot oven]. All the proud people will be punished. All the evil people will burn like straw. At that time [on that future day] they will be like a bush burning in the fire, and there will not be a branch or root left.’ This is what the Lordord All-Powerful said” (Malachi 4:1, ERV).

At the Second Coming of Christ, the people who died in Jesus will wake up from the dead. God will give them their reward: everlasting life. Isaiah 25 tells us, “God will destroy death forever. The Lord God will wipe away every tear from every face. God will take away the shame of his people from the earth. The Lord has spoken [promised]” (Isaiah 25:8, ICB). In Isaiah 26, we read: “Lordord, your people who have died will live again. Their bodies will rise from the dead. Let those [people] who lie in the grave wake up and shout for joy. You give life, Lordord, like the dew of the morning. So the earth will give up its dead people” (Isaiah 26:19, NIrV). Then the people who wake up from the dead will sit down to a feast with the Lord (Isaiah 25:6). All the people saved by Jesus from every age will sit down together. That includes your loved ones who died in Jesus.