---
title:  The First Commandment 
date:  20/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Daniel 12. What hope do we find in this chapter about the resurrection? As we already saw, the resurrection is the time when Jesus will wake up the dead at the Second Coming.`

Daniel 12:1 talks about Michael. Michael is “ ‘the great [powerful] prince’ ” (Daniel 12:1, ERV). Many people don’t know who Michael is. But the book of Daniel gives us a big hint. In this book, all of Daniel’s dreams about the future end with Jesus and His kingdom. So, we understand that chapter 12 will talk about Jesus and heaven, too. Also, in other verses in Daniel, we read about many different names for the Lord. The Lord also is named “the commander of heaven’s armies” (Daniel 8:11, ICB). Other names for the Lord in the book of Daniel include: “the Prince of Princes” (Daniel 8:25, ERV), “ ‘the chosen king’ ” (Daniel 9:25, ERV), and finally, “ ‘Michael, the great [powerful] prince’ ” (Daniel 12:1, ICB). So, we should see that Michael is another name for Jesus.

So far this week, we have looked at these Old Testament verses: Job 19:25–27; Psalm 49:15; Psalm 71:20; and Isaiah 26:19. All of these verses talk about the resurrection of saved people. That is, they talk about the time when Jesus will wake up His people from the dead. But Daniel 12 talks about a time when Jesus will resurrect or wake up all saved people and several evil people at the same time. When will that be? When “ ‘Michael will stand up. Michael is in charge of [leads] your people’ ” (Daniel 12:1, ERV). When Michael stands up, He shows us that His work as Judge in heaven is finished. At that time, Gabriel says: “ ‘There will be a time of much trouble, the worst time since nations have been on earth. But Daniel, at that time every one of your people whose name is found written in the book of life will be saved’ ” (Daniel 12:1, ERV). Then “ ‘many people who have already died will live again. Some of them will wake up to have life forever. But some [people] will wake up to find shame and disgrace forever’ ” (Daniel 12:2, ICB).

Many people believe that Daniel 12:2 is talking about a special group of evil people that God will wake up from the dead at the Second Coming. This group will wake up with all the saved people who ever lived. (Read Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 637; see also Friday’s study.)