---
title:  Further Thought
date:  21/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Visions of Future Glory,” pages 722–733, in Prophets and Kings.

“Graves open. ‘ “Many people who have already died will live again. Some of them will wake up to have life forever. But some [people] will wake up to find shame and disgrace forever.” ’ Daniel 12:2, [ICB]. Everyone who died believing in the Third Angel’s Message will wake up. These people will come out of the grave with a new body that is full of glory. This body will never die. The ones who wake up from the dead will hear God’s promise of peace. God makes this promise to everyone who kept His law. Another group of people wakes up from the dead, too, at this time: ‘Everyone will see him, even those who stabbed him’ (Revelation 1:7, [ICB]). This group includes the men who made fun of Jesus while He hung dying on the cross. God also will wake up the people who fought the most against His commandments and hurt His people. God will wake up these evil people so that they can see Jesus in His glory. They will see that God honors the people who were loyal and obedient to Him.”—Ellen G. White G. White, The Great Controversy, page 637, adapted.

“God is the One who gives life. As the Life-giver, the Lord will wake up from the dead the ones He saved. This time is known as the first resurrection. At that time, God shall blow the trumpet, and everyone who died in Jesus shall wake up. Until that time, God will keep every sleeping saint safe. God will protect His sleeping saints the same as precious jewels. God knows each of His sleeping saints by name. When they lived, the Savior lived in them. They became holy as Jesus is holy. Because they became holy, God will wake them up from the dead.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 4, page 1143, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`There are many billions of stars. Some of these stars have planets that circle around them. God made all these stars and planets. God keeps them all going and knows them all by name (Psalm 147:4)! Wow! Our God is very powerful! How can thinking about what God made help us believe in resurrection?`

`Hebrews 11 talks about the “heroes of faith” in the Old Testament. How can this chapter help us better understand the hope that people in the Old Testament had before Jesus came to this earth, died, and then woke up from the dead?`