---
title:  Parable or True Story?
date:  05/11/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Luke 16:19–31**

**Parable or True Story?**

Is the parable of the rich man and Lazarus a true-to-life story? The answer is no. We know it’s a parable because, according to the gospel of Luke, Jesus used the same opening formula (“There was a certain . . .”) for all His parables (see Luke 7:41; 14:16; 15:11; 16:1; 19:12; 20:9).

Jesus occasionally used parables of situations that existed in His day. The Pharisees told a story similar to this one, and Jesus used it and gave it a surprising twist to teach a deep spiritual truth. Ellen White wrote, “In this parable Christ was meeting the people on their own ground. The doctrine of a conscious state of existence between death and the resurrection was held by many of those who were listening to Christ’s words. The Savior knew of their ideas, and He framed His parable so as to inculcate important truths through these preconceived opinions.” (Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons (Battle Creek, MI: Review and Herald, 1900), 263.)

Certain Bible expositors claim that this story cannot be a parable because Jesus used the proper name Lazarus, and He never used proper names in any of His other parables. The parables of Jesus have multi-dimensional applications. They can apply to individuals and also to groups. For example, Ellen White applies the parable of the unjust steward to the publicans, the disciples, the Pharisees, Israel, and us. (White, Christ’s Object Lessons, 366–375.) The parable of the rich man and Lazarus has a central lesson: The way people or groups use or abuse God’s blessings in this life will determine their eternal destiny.

#### inScribe

Write out Luke 16:19–31 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Luke 16:29–31. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, outline, or mind-map the chapter.

` `