---
title:  An Important Nuance
date:  06/11/2022
---

#### inGest

A very important nuance appears in this imaginary story. The parable tells us that the rich man begged Abraham to send Lazarus _from the dead_ to warn his five brothers not to come to this place of torment: “And he said, ‘No, father Abraham; but if one goes to them _from the dead_, they will repent’ ” (Luke 16:30, emphasis supplied). Abraham’s reply shows that he (as well as Jesus, who quoted him) believed that Lazarus could only go to his brothers if he _rose from the dead_: “ ‘If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded though one rise _from the dead_’ ” (v. 31, emphasis supplied). The expression “rise from the dead” refers to the resurrection (Luke 24:46; Mark 9:9, 10; 12:25). The rich man wanted Lazarus to go to his brothers _from the dead_, but Abraham told him that Lazarus could go only if he were _resurrected_ from the dead.

In the parable, Abraham told the rich man that his brothers had Moses and the prophets to warn them not to go to the place of torment. The rich man objected, however, saying that if _Lazarus_ went to his brothers _from the dead_, they would repent and believe. Abraham replied that if they did not believe Moses and the prophets (cf. John 5:39, 40, 45–47) they would not repent even if a man called Lazarus were _resurrected_ from the dead!

Sometime after He told the parable, Jesus resurrected a man called Lazarus, who had been dead four days. The body was tightly wrapped in linen and in the grave. There was no room for foul play or sleight of hand! Did the Pharisees then repent and believe that Jesus was the Messiah? A resounding no! The Sanhedrin met and laid plans to kill Him: “Then the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered a council and said, ‘What shall we do? For this Man works many signs. If we let Him alone like this, _everyone will believe in Him_, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and nation.’ And one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest that year, said to them, ‘You know nothing at all, nor do you consider that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and not that the whole nation should perish’ ” (John 11:47–50, emphasis supplied). Not only did they lay plans to kill Jesus but also Lazarus (John 12:9–11)!

**Memorize your favorite verse in Luke 16:19–31. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`What spiritual applications are found in both the resurrection of Lazarus and the parable of Lazarus?`

`What does this section reveal about the nature of belief?`