---
title:  Two Groups
date:  07/11/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Two groups of people are represented in the parable, one that lived for themselves in riches (particularly the Pharisees; Luke 16:14) and another that followed God in their poverty. The leaders of the Jewish nation lived sumptuously and hoarded the blessings that God conferred on them. They enjoyed the privileges of election but failed to fulfill its responsibilities. They claimed an intimate closeness with Abraham as their father as represented by the bosom (cf. John 1:18; 13:23; Deut. 13:6) but did not share his generous hospitality toward others (cf. Gen. 18:1–5). In the parable, the rich man addressed Abraham as “father,” and Abraham addressed the rich man as “son” (Luke 16:24, 25, 27, 30; see John 8:39). All the hopes of the Pharisees were centered on Abraham, not on God (cf. John 8:31–59).

Lazarus represents the suffering poor who believe in Christ. The story tells us that Lazarus ate the crumbs that fell from the rich man’s table and the dogs licked his sores (Luke 16:19–21), pointing to his poverty and suffering. This story is not real to life for many reasons. The Bible teaches that the dead are in the grave, not in hell (John 5:28, 29). The unrighteous will be thrown into the lake of fire at the end of the age, not at their own death (Matt. 13:40–43; 25:31–34, 41, 46: Rev. 21:8; 20:11–15). Scripture teaches that the righteous will be taken to heaven by the angels at the Second Coming, not to the bosom of Abraham at death (Matt. 24:31). The Bible forbids attempted communication of the living with the dead (Lev. 20:27; Isa. 8:19, 20), and yet the rich man asked Abraham to send Lazarus from the dead to admonish his brothers not to come there. Furthermore, the rich man and Lazarus had body parts in the bosom of Abraham and Hades—fingers, tongue, and eyes. Why would they have body parts in the bosom of Abraham and Hades if their bodies went to the grave?

The late Robert Morey, a close associate of writer Walter Martin and a staunch believer and defender of the immortality of the soul, made this remarkable admission: “Everyone understood that these parables and dialogues did not literally take place. It was understood that the rabbis used imaginative stories and dialogues as a teaching method. It was understood by all that these dialogues never took place. . . . He [Jesus] was merely using the dialogue method to get across the concept that there is no escape from torment, no second chance, and we must believe the Scripture in this life unto salvation.” (Robert A. Morey, Death and the Afterlife (Minneapolis, MN: Bethany House, 1984), 85.)

` `