---
title:  “I Desire Mercy”
date:  09/11/2022
---

#### inVite

The central point of this parable is that we need to repent, trust in Jesus, and use the resources He has lent us to bless those who are hungering and thirsting for food from the table and from the Word. What individuals, nations, and churches do with God’s blessings in this life will determine their future reward.

The rich man received God’s abundant resources during his lifetime but hoarded them selfishly for himself. He did not mistreat Lazarus or kick him under the table. He even allowed Lazarus to eat the crumbs that fell from his table. His sin was to ignore Lazarus, what we call the sin of omission.

The parable of the sheep and the goats in Matthew 25:31–46 teaches the same lesson. In both stories the final recompense of fire or living in the kingdom is based on what believers did with the blessings that God conferred upon them. The goats did not mistreat people; they simply ignored them. Ellen White wisely wrote, “The condemning power of the law of God extends, not only to the things we do, but to the things we do not do. We are not to justify ourselves in omitting to do the things that God requires. We must not only cease to do evil, but we must learn to do well. God has given us powers to be exercised in good works; and if these powers are not put to use, we shall certainly be set down as wicked and slothful servants.” (Ellen G. White, _Selected Messages, Bk. 1_ (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1958), 220.)

The story of the Good Samaritan (Luke 10:25–37) teaches the same lesson. The Samaritan helped the wounded man not for any personal gain but out of pure mercy. There was nothing in it for him. He took the man to the hospital and paid his medical bill. He served without mercenary motives. The Good Samaritan represents Jesus, who came to heal wounded humanity, and what Jesus did He commands us to do likewise.

Perfection is more than ceasing to do evil; it means doing good. That is why Matthew 5:48 commands us to be perfect as our Father in heaven is perfect but the parallel passage in Luke 6:36 calls us to be merciful as our heavenly Father is merciful. James 1:27 describes the perfect balance between ceasing to do evil and performing the good: “Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their trouble, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world”

`Where are ideas that Christ moves you to do good in?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`