---
title:  John The Baptist Compares Himself To Jesus
date:   03/11/2024
---

Lesson 4 explained how John the Baptist’s announcement about Jesus brought the first followers to Jesus. These followers included Andrew, John, Peter, Philip, and Nathanael. John the Baptist appears a few more times in the Book of John.

`How does John the Baptist compare himself to Jesus? Read John 3:25–36 for the answer.`

John the Baptist’s followers argued with someone about laws for keeping clean. They may have been arguing about baptism (compare with Mark 1:4, 5). John’s fol­lowers asked John to help answer their question about Jesus. “Then they came to John and said, ‘Teacher, remember the man who was with you on the other side of the Jordan River? He is the one you were telling everyone about. He is also baptizing people, and many are going to him’ ” (John 3:26, ERV). We can easily see from this verse that John’s followers are jealous of Jesus.

John the Baptist doesn’t feel jealous. He knows the work that God gave him to do. John tells his followers to remember that he never said he was the Savior. God sent John to help people accept the Savior and to get their hearts ready for Him. John is only His witness (John 1:6–8).

Then John uses the word picture of a wedding to explain his work. John says that he is the friend of the bridegroom, and Jesus is the bridegroom. God’s people are the bride (compare with Hosea 2:16–23; Isaiah 62:1–5). Then John says something that shows he has no pride in his heart. With these words, we understand that John is an amazing person. He says, “ ‘He [Jesus] must become more impor­tant. I must become less important’ ” (John 3:30, NLV).

John 3:31–36 continues to compare John with Jesus. These verses show that the Savior is more important than John. John’s message helps people to accept Jesus and His everlasting life. God is “very angry” with the people who refuse to accept Jesus (John 3:36, WE). That’s what the verse says. God loves the earth and sends His Son to save the people on this earth (John 3:16, 17). But if people refuse to accept God’s gift of mercy, God will let them pay the penalty for their own sins. The penalty is everlasting death. Jesus pays the penalty only for the people who accept Him.