---
title:  A New Understanding About The Savior
date:   04/11/2024
---

`As a people, the Jews waited for the Savior for a long time. What does John the Baptist say about Jesus that surprised the people and that they didn’t expect to hear? Read John 1:32–36 for the answer.`

The Jews expected the coming Savior to make them free from Roman control. The Kingdom of Rome controlled the Jews for a long time. The Jews believed that the coming Savior would end Rome’s control. Then Israel can become an important and powerful country again. But then John the Baptist named Jesus “the Lamb of God” (John 1:36, ERV). This name connected Jesus to His future death as an offering for sin. Most people misunderstood John’s words about Jesus. They didn’t really know what John the Baptist was talking about at all.

So, John, Jesus’ follower, wrote this book about Jesus’ life. John wanted to help people have a correct understanding of Jesus. Then they would know that Jesus was the Savior. Jesus did everything the Bible said the Savior would do. Jesus wasn’t coming as a king or an army leader. Jesus came to offer Himself for the sins of everyone. When Jesus finishes His work, then God’s kingdom will come (read Daniel 7:18).

“When Jesus was baptized, John the Baptist announced that Jesus was the Lamb of God. John’s words helped people understand the Savior’s work in a new way. The Holy Spirit helped John the Baptist remember Isaiah’s words, ‘He was led away like a lamb to be killed.’ Isaiah 53:7 [NIrV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 136, adapted.

John the Baptist said that when he first met Jesus, “ ‘I did not know who he was’ ” (John 1:31, ERV). So, then, how did John know that Jesus was the Savior? The answer is that God told John: “ ‘God said to me, “The Holy Spirit will come down and stay on Him. He is the One Who baptizes with the Holy Spirit.” I saw this happen. I am now saying that Jesus is the Son of God’ ” (John 1:33, 34, NLV). So, in other words, God showed John that Jesus was the Savior.

“But Christ is God’s power and wisdom” (1 Corinthians 1:24, ERV). God helps us to know that Jesus is the Savior. We see this idea often in the Book of John. Only God saves us when we give our hearts to Jesus in faith and obey Him.