---
title:  Accepting Or Rejecting Jesus
date:   05/11/2024
---

Lesson 2 talked about the time Jesus fed more than 5,000 people (John 6). But the lesson didn’t talk about the final part of the story, which we will look at here.

`What did Jesus say that people had trouble accepting? Read John 6:51–71 for the answer.`

After Jesus worked a miracle to feed more than 5,000 people, they were ready to make Jesus king (John 6:1–15). Later, at the Jewish church in Capernaum, Jesus explained the spiritual meaning of the miracle to the people. Jesus said, “ ‘I am the bread that gives life’ ” (John 6:35, ERV). Jesus explains that this bread is a word picture for His body. Jesus will give His body as an offering for sin so that the people of this earth can have everlasting life (John 6:51).

Jesus’ saying helped the people understand that Jesus wasn’t going to be their king. But the people refused to accept what Jesus told them. Many of His followers left Him at this time (John 6:66).

Their leaving must have hurt Jesus. Everyone wants to be liked. When Jesus sees so many people leave Him, He asks His Twelve followers if they want to leave Him, too.

At this time, Peter makes an amazing announcement about who Jesus is and what He has to give. “Simon Peter said to Him, ‘Lord, who else can we go to? You have words that give life that lasts forever. We believe and know You are the Christ [the Savior]. You are the Son of the Living God’ ” (John 6:68, 69, NLV).

Jesus’ followers had been with Him for about two years. They traveled with Him. They saw Him do miracles. They heard His sermons. The followers knew from experience that there was no one else the same as Jesus. The followers believed that Jesus was the Savior, even if they didn’t understand what He came to do. Only when Jesus died and woke up from the dead did the followers start to understand why Jesus came to earth.

`What does this story in John 6:51–71 teach us about how big groups of people are often wrong about things? Why must we remember this important idea when we share with other people those parts of our faith that many people, and even some Christians, do not like?`