---
title:  God The Father Says Who Jesus Is
date:   06/11/2024
---

The Book of John starts with the topic about the Word (“logos” in the Greek language), who is Jesus. John tells us that the Word is with God the Father (John 1:1). Then the Word comes to live in a human body on earth. At that time, the Holy Spirit says who Jesus is. The Spirit rests on Jesus at His baptism (John 1:32–34). Later, God the Father also tells us who Jesus is during Jesus’ work on earth.

`Read John 5:36–38. What does Jesus say in these verses about God the Father?`

Jesus connects God the Father to the works and miracles He did on this earth. Jesus says that the Father sent Him. The Father also is a witness about who Jesus is and what He came to do.

`What does God the Father say about Jesus? Read Matthew 3:17; Matthew 17:5; Mark 1:11; and Luke 3:22 (also read 2 Peter 1:17, 18).`

During Jesus’ baptism, God the Father and the Holy Spirit join Jesus at this important time. Jesus’ work on earth is about to start. The Father says that Jesus is His beloved Son. God is very pleased with Him. Later, God makes another announcement at an important time during Jesus’ work on earth. We can read about this time in John 12.

In chapter 12, John tells us that at this time Jesus is almost done with His work on earth. The Jewish leaders couldn’t stop Jesus in His work (read John 12:19). So, now more than ever, the Jewish leaders want to kill Jesus. The crowds love Jesus. More and more people heard the stories of the witnesses who saw Jesus wake up Lazarus from the dead (John 12:17, 18). So, more people started to follow Jesus. The Greeks who came to Jerusalem for the feast also wanted to meet Jesus.

The Father again speaks to Jesus from heaven. God the Father answers Jesus’ words in John 12:28. Jesus says, “ ‘Father, honor Your name!’ Then a voice from heaven came, saying, ‘I have already honored My name. I will honor it again!’ ” (NLV).

As we saw already, Jesus will be honored on the cross. So, the Father’s announcement in John 12:28 is talking about Jesus’ offering as the Lamb of God for our sins.