---
title:  The Crowd Announces Who Jesus Is
date:   07/11/2024
---

“The last day of the feast came. It was the most important day. On that day Jesus stood up and said in a loud voice, ‘If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. If a person believes in me, rivers of living water will flow out from his heart. This is what the Scripture [the Bible] says’ ” (John 7:37, 38, ICB).

Many times John writes the announcements that Jesus makes about Himself. Jesus says who He was and what He came to do. The verses from John 7:37, 38 are another example of an announcement Jesus makes about Himself. Jesus promises to do wonderful things for people who believe in Him. This promise is amazing.

`When Jesus talked to the Jews at the feast, how did many people in the crowd answer Him? Read John 7:37–53 for the answer.`

Some people in the crowd said that Jesus was the Special Messenger that Moses said would come (read Deuteronomy 18:15–19). Other people thought that Jesus was the Savior. But this belief caused some Jews to argue about where the Savior would come from. They said that the Savior wouldn’t come from Galilee. They also said that the Savior must be born from David’s line. So, the Savior had to be born in Bethlehem. All these things were true about Jesus (compare with Matthew 1–2). But many people didn’t know these things!

The soldiers who came to arrest Jesus were also surprised at the things He said. The Jewish religious leaders answered the soldiers with another question. “ ‘You don’t see any of the leaders or any of us Pharisees believing in him, do you?’ ” (John 7:48, ERV). Then the Book of John tells us that Nicodemus tries to protect Jesus from the evil plans of the Jewish leaders. Nicodemus says, “ ‘Our law does not judge a man without hearing him. We cannot judge him until we know what he has done’ ” (John 7:51, ICB). Did Nicodemus accept Jesus as the Savior? The verse we just read isn’t proof that Nicodemus did. But between this story and what Nicodemus did after Jesus died (read John 19:39, 40), the Bible gives us proof that Nicodemus did come to believe in Him. So, the answer to the Pharisees’ question was, “Yes,” one of the spiritual leaders did believe Jesus!