---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   08/11/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Crisis in Galilee,” pages 383–394; “In the Outer Court,” pages 621–626, in The Desire of Ages.

“ ‘Lord, who else can we go to?’ [John 6:68, NLV]. The Jewish teachers were the same as slaves to wrong ideas about God. The Pharisees and Sadducees were two groups of spiritual leaders. They were always fighting with each other. If people did not want to follow Jesus, the only other teachers were the Pharisees or Saducees. These men wanted the honor that belonged only to God. These men loved empty worship. When Jesus’ followers accepted Him, they found more peace and joy than they knew before in their old lives. How could they go back to the teachers who scolded and attacked the Friend of sinners? Jesus’ followers waited for the Savior to come for a long time. They couldn’t turn away from Him to the teachers who wanted to kill Him. These same spiritual leaders attacked the followers for accepting Jesus.

“ ‘Lord, who else can we go to?’ The followers couldn’t reject Jesus’ precious teachings or His lessons about love and mercy for lies and a life of sin. Many people rejected Jesus. These same people saw the wonderful works and miracles that Jesus did. But Peter announced the faith of Jesus’ followers: ‘You are the Savior.’ The followers were filled with fear and pain at the thought of losing Jesus. Jesus was the same as a ship’s anchor. If the followers rejected Jesus, they felt they would be the same as a ship with no anchor that was drifting on a dark and stormy sea.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 393, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Some people accepted Jesus as the Savior, while other people rejected Him. Both groups saw the same proof for Jesus as Savior. Why did some people accept the proof while other people rejected it?`

`Jesus died for our sins. How do we know this important Bible truth? Did science teach us? Why must the Bible have the final say in everything we believe?`