---
title:  Stand Fast in Unity
date:  14/01/2026
---

Jesus’ last prayer for His disciples was dominated by one key theme: unity. Jesus looked beyond the cross to reunion with His Father and reunion with us: “Father, I desire that they also whom You gave Me may be with Me where I am, that they may behold My glory which You have given Me” (John 17:24, NKJV). Jesus prayed that the Father would keep His children so “that they may be one as We are” (John 17:11, NKJV). He also underscored the dire consequences of disunity—it becomes a reason for many not to believe. Twice in this brief prayer, Jesus emphasizes our oneness with Him and the Father is so “that the world may believe” and so “that the world may know that You have sent Me” (John 17:21, 23, NKJV).

`Read Philippians 1:27 and compare John 17:17–19. What do both Jesus and Paul say is indispensable for unity in the church?`

The Greek word in Philippians 1:27 translated “let your conduct be worthy” is politeuomai, which means “live as a citizen”—not of any earthly kingdom but as a citizen of the heavenly kingdom. The Sermon on the Mount paints a beautiful picture of what it means to be children of the heavenly Father and members of His kingdom: poor in spirit, meek, hungering and thirsting for righteousness, merciful, pure in heart, peacemakers, turning the other cheek, loving one’s enemies, blessing those who curse us, doing good to those who hate us. In short, “to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God” (Micah 6:8).

It’s difficult to be upset or angry with someone like that, or is it? Sometimes we resent people who seem to be too good. We may even be tempted to cut them down to size or find a weak point to prove that they’re not as good as they seem, all so that we feel better about ourselves. Instead, why not see how much more loving we can be, how generous, how merciful, how humble?

Ellen G. White spoke of those who “love the world and its gain better than they love God or the truth.”—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 277.

So often disunity in the church ultimately stems from pride. “As pride and worldly ambition have been cherished, the spirit of Christ has departed, and emulation, dissension, and strife have come in to distract and weaken the church.”—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, pp. 240, 241.

How crucial that we each learn the humility and meekness that Jesus modeled for us! What a different church we would have, wouldn’t we?

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In his letter to the church at Ephesus, Paul sets before them the “mystery of the gospel” (Ephesians 6:19), the “unsearchable riches of Christ” (chap. 3:8), and then assures them of his earnest prayers for their spiritual prosperity:\
“I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, . . . that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man; that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith; that ye, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height; and to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fulness of God” (verses 14–19).\
He writes to his Corinthian brethren also, “to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus . . . : Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God always on your behalf, for the grace of God which is given you by Jesus Christ; that in every thing ye are enriched by him, in all utterance, and in all knowledge; even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you: so that ye come behind in no gift; waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ” (1 Corinthians 1:2–7).\
These words are addressed not only to the church at Corinth but to all the people of God to the close of time. Every Christian may enjoy the blessing of sanctification.\
The apostle continues in these words: “Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment” (verse 10). Paul would not have appealed to them to do that which was impossible. Unity is the sure result of Christian perfection. . . .\
The apostle himself was endeavoring to reach the same standard of holiness which he set before his brethren. . . . Paul did not hesitate to enforce, upon every suitable occasion, the importance of Bible sanctification. He says: “Ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus. For this is the will of God, even your sanctification” (1 Thessalonians 4:2, 3).\
“Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. . . . Do all things without murmurings and disputings: that ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world” (Philippians 2:12–15).—Reflecting Christ, p. 98.