---
title:  United and Fearless
date:  15/01/2026
---

`Read Philippians 1:27–30. How does our unity and “striving together for the faith of the gospel” relate to fearlessness?`

Satan’s strategy is to divide and conquer. Disunity is deadly. Jesus said, “If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand” (Mark 3:25, NKJV). It’s a simple principle that Satan is delighted for us to forget. Our unity helps enable us to fulfill our prophetic role as the remnant of Bible prophecy (Rev. 12:17), proclaiming the “everlasting gospel” to “every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people” (Rev. 14:6). Because unity is crucial to fulfill our mission to spread this God-given message, and Jesus’ prayer in John 17 highlights “the truth” of God’s Word as one of the most important keys for unity (John 17:17, 19), our message cannot be separated from our mission or our unity. All three stand or fall together. If one of these three keys is missing, we can’t succeed. However, if we have all three in place, there is nothing to fear. We need not be “in any way terrified” by opposition (Phil. 1:28, NKJV). Satan is a defeated foe. Even if we should be put to death for our faith, nothing can harm us if we “become followers of what is good” (1 Pet. 3:13, NKJV). The devil is powerless to stop the onward march of God’s truth.

`Read the following Bible passages and briefly summarize their common theme: Matthew 10:38, Acts 14:22, Romans 8:17, 2 Timothy 3:12.`

Life itself in this fallen world is hard, even for the “best” of us. Job was a righteous man; even the Bible says that he “was blameless and upright, and one who feared God and shunned evil” (Job 1:1, NKJV). And yet, overnight, calamity struck him and his family. Who hasn’t learned, either by personal experience or by seeing what happened to others, that life here is lived, it seems, on a precipice, and you never know when you will go over the edge? Suffering, to some degree, is the lot of us all. In the end, though, better to suffer for Christ’s sake than for anything else.

`What hope, what comfort, should we, as Christians, have amid our suffering?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Felix had never before listened to the truth, and as the Spirit of God sent conviction to his soul, he became deeply agitated. Conscience, now aroused, made her voice heard, and Felix felt that Paul’s words were true. Memory went back over the guilty past. With terrible distinctness there came up before him the secrets of his early life of profligacy and bloodshed, and the black record of his later years. He saw himself licentious, cruel, rapacious. Never before had the truth been thus brought home to his heart. Never before had his soul been so filled with terror. The thought that all the secrets of his career of crime were open before the eye of God, and that he must be judged according to his deeds, caused him to tremble with dread.\
But instead of permitting his convictions to lead him to repentance, he sought to dismiss these unwelcome reflections. The interview with Paul was cut short. “Go thy way for this time,” he said; “when I have a convenient season, I will call for thee.”\
How wide the contrast between the course of Felix and that of the jailer of Philippi! The servants of the Lord were brought in bonds to the jailer, as was Paul to Felix. The evidence they gave of being sustained by a divine power, their rejoicing under suffering and disgrace, their fearlessness when the earth was reeling with the earthquake shock, and their spirit of Christlike forgiveness, sent conviction to the jailer’s heart, and with trembling he confessed his sins and found pardon. Felix trembled, but he did not repent. The jailer joyfully welcomed the Spirit of God to his heart and to his home; Felix bade the divine Messenger depart. The one chose to become a child of God and an heir of heaven; the other cast his lot with the workers of iniquity.—The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 425, 426.

“Wherefore I take you to record this day, that I am pure from the blood of all men. For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God.” No fear of giving offense, no desire for friendship or applause, could lead Paul to withhold the words that God had given him for their instruction, warning, or correction. From His servants today God requires fearlessness in preaching the word and in carrying out its precepts. The minister of Christ is not to present to the people only those truths that are the most pleasing, while he withholds others that might cause them pain. He should watch with deep solicitude the development of character. If he sees that any of his flock are cherishing sin he must as a faithful shepherd give them from God’s word the instruction that is applicable to their case. Should he permit them in their self-confidence to go on unwarned, he would be held responsible for their souls. The pastor who fulfills his high commission must give his people faithful instruction on every point of the Christian faith, showing them what they must be and do in order to stand perfect in the day of God. He only who is a faithful teacher of the truth will at the close of his work be able to say with Paul, “I am pure from the blood of all men.”—The Acts of the Apostles, p. 393.