---
title:  Further Thought
date:  16/01/2026
---

“From the rack, the stake, the dungeon, from dens and caves of the earth, there falls upon his ear the martyr’s shout of triumph. He [Paul] hears the witness of steadfast souls, who, though destitute, afflicted, tormented, yet bear fearless, solemn testimony for the faith, declaring, ‘I know whom I have believed.’ These, yielding up their lives for the faith, declare to the world that He in whom they have trusted is able to save to the uttermost.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 512.

“Never was there so great a diversity of faith in Christendom as at the present day. If the gifts [of apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers (Eph. 4:11–13)] were necessary to preserve the unity of the primitive church, how much more so to restore unity now! And that it is the purpose of God to restore the unity of the church in the last days, is abundantly evident from the prophecies. We are assured that the watchmen shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion. Also, that in the time of the end the wise shall understand. When this is fulfilled there will be unity of faith with all whom God accounts wise; for those that do in reality understand aright, must necessarily understand alike. . . . From considerations like these, it is evident that the perfect state of the church here predicted is still in the future; consequently these gifts have not yet accomplished their purpose.”—R. F. Cottrell, “Introduction,” in Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 140.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In light of the above quotation from R. F. Cottrell, what is neces­sary for the Holy Spirit to bring unity into God’s church today? How important for church unity is the putting into practice of counsels given through the gift of prophecy?`

`How would you explain the Bible teaching on death to a friend who believes that Paul and other Christians who have died are now “with Christ” in heaven?`

`How do we understand the terrible reality of suffering in this world? Why is the great controversy motif so helpful in giving us some understanding of it all? Why though must we, in the end, ultimately look at Jesus on the cross as the fullest possible expression of the Father’s love and learn to trust Him even in the worst of times?`