---
title:  Cain and Abel
date:  10/04/2022
---

`Read Genesis 4:1, 2. What do we learn from these passages about the births of the two males?`

The first event recorded by the biblical author immediately after Adam’s expulsion from the Garden of Eden is a birth. In the Hebrew phrase in Genesis 4:1, the words “the Lord” (YHWH) are directly linked to the words “a man,” as the following literal translation indicates: “ ‘I have acquired a man, indeed the Lord Himself.’ ” It is rendered by the International Standard Version as “ ‘I have given birth to a male child—the Lord.’ ”

This literal translation suggests that Eve remembers the Messianic prophecy of Genesis 3:15 and believes that she has given birth to her Savior, the Lord. “The Saviour’s coming was foretold in Eden. When Adam and Eve first heard the promise, they looked for its speedy fulfillment. They joyfully welcomed their first-born son, hoping that he might be the Deliverer.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 31.

In fact, Cain occupies most of the story. He not only is the firstborn, a son that the parents almost “worshiped”; but in the chapter, he also is the only brother who, in the Genesis text, speaks. While Eve excitedly comments on Cain’s birth, she says nothing at Abel’s, at least nothing that is recorded in the text, in contrast to the birth of Cain. The narrator simply reports that she “bore again” (Gen. 4:2, NKJV).

The name Cain itself is derived from the Hebrew verb _qanah_, which means “to acquire” and denotes the acquisition, the possession of something precious and powerful. On the other hand, the Hebrew name _Hebel_, in English Abel, means “vapor” (Ps. 62:9, NKJV), or “breath” (Ps. 144:4, NKJV) and denotes elusiveness, emptiness, lack of substance; the same word, _hebel_ (Abel), is used repeatedly in Ecclesiastes for “vanity.” Though we don’t want to read more into these short texts than is there, perhaps the idea is that Adam and Eve’s hope rested, they believed, only in Cain, because they believed he, not his brother, was the promised Messiah.

`What are things in life that, truly, are hebel, but that we treat as if they mattered much more than they do? Why is it important to know the difference between what matters and what doesn’t?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Saviour’s coming was foretold in Eden. When Adam and Eve first heard the promise, they looked for its speedy fulfillment. They joyfully welcomed their first-born son, hoping that he might be the Deliverer. But the fulfillment of the promise tarried. Those who first received it died without the sight. . . .<br/>
But like the stars in the vast circuit of their appointed path, God’s purposes know no haste and no delay. . . . So in heaven’s council the hour for the coming of Christ had been determined. When the great clock of time pointed to that hour, Jesus was born in Bethlehem.—The Desire of Ages, pp. 31, 32.

Cain and Abel, the sons of Adam, differed widely in character. Abel had a spirit of loyalty to God; he saw justice and mercy in the Creator’s dealings with the fallen race, and gratefully accepted the hope of redemption. But Cain cherished feelings of rebellion, and murmured against God because of the curse pronounced upon the earth and upon the human race for Adam’s sin. He permitted his mind to run in the same channel that led to Satan’s fall—indulging the desire for self-exaltation and questioning the divine justice and authority.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 71.

To encourage the love of amusement is to discourage the love of religious exercises, for the heart becomes so crowded with trifling, with what is pleasing to the natural heart, that there is no room for Jesus. . . .<br/>
It requires the faith that works by love and purifies the soul to meet the mind of God. There are those who believe in Christ; they do not think Him an impostor; they believe the Bible to be a revelation of His divine character. They admire its holy doctrines, and revere the name, the only name given under heaven whereby men can be saved, and yet, with all this knowledge, they may be as truly ignorant of the grace of God as the veriest sinner. They have not opened the heart to let Jesus in.—That I May Know Him, p. 307.

The time is not far off when the people of God will be called upon to give their testimony before the rulers of the earth. Not one in twenty has a realization of what rapid strides we are making toward the great crisis in our history. . . . There is no time for vanity, for trifling, for engaging the mind in unimportant matters. . . .<br/>
You now have an opportunity to attain to the greatest intellectual power through the study of the Word of God. But if you are indolent, and fail to dig deep in the mines of truth, you will not be ready for the crisis that is soon to come upon us. O that you would realize that each moment is golden. If you live by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God, you will not be found unprepared.—Our High Calling, p. 355.