---
title:  Is Anger Bad?
date:  02/06/2019
---

**Evidence**: Eph. 4:26, 27

I’ve yet to attend a church where there aren’t at least two people angry at each other. In fact, I’m yet to meet any group of people, regardless of their relational arrangement, that doesn’t have conflicts and tensions being navigated, either outrightly or behind the scenes. Whether it’s a small business team, a punk rock band, or a nice Christian family, it’s only a matter of spending enough time around them until the relational tensions start to reveal themselves. At the center of most of these tensions, especially those of a higher magnitude, anger is prevalent.

Human psychologists have often stated that anger and conflict are not intrinsically negative; in fact, they’re a necessary component to healthy relationships. The thing is, it’s those who know how to be angry and how to express that anger in healthy ways that find connection instead of repulsion during their conflicts. You could say they find ways to have conflict that deepens intimacy instead of conflict that removes intimacy.

Thinking about it, isn’t it God who embedded anger into our human psyche? So Paul says, “Be angry, and do not sin” (Eph. 4:26, NKJV). He seems to be making a definitional separation between anger and sin; they are two separate and different items in which one can be embraced without the presence of the other.

The Greek word that is translated “anger” is orgizō, which means “to provoke or enrage.” It’s a word describing an emotion experienced not only by us as humanity but by God Himself. Throughout both the Old and New Testaments it’s not uncommon to see God experience this intense emotional state. In the face of injustice and oppression, God is often portrayed as experiencing anger, feeling a deep-seated displeasure at the cruel acts done toward the poor and weak.

With that in mind, it’s proper to sometimes feel anger; it’s as valid an emotion as joy. But we don’t have to allow anger to cause us to become careless and hurtful. Instead, we can find ways to express that anger in a healthy, relationship-building way.

**React**

`1. What is your opinion on conflict? Is it negative?`

`2. Is it even possible to express anger in a healthy way? If so, how?`

`3. Do you agree that anger is a God-given emotion? If not, why not?`

---

_Askim Chundu, Lacombe, Alberta, Canada_