---
title:  Strong Families
date:  03/06/2019
---

**Logos**: Gen. 2:7, 21–25; 3:1; Matt. 7:1, 2; Rom. 3:23; Eph. 6:10–18; Phil. 2:4–8; Col. 3:18–21; Heb. 12:14

**The First Family (Gen. 2:7, 21–25; 3:1)**

Imagine the perfect man—handsome, strong, brilliant leader, gentle, and loving. Adam was all of this and so much more. From this perfect man, God took a rib and formed a woman. She was the apple of Adam’s eye, bone of his bone, flesh of his flesh (Gen. 2:23). Yet into this perfection, sin and conflict entered when the devil showed up in disguise in Eden.

As much as Adam loved Eve, he should have loved God even more. When she brought him the fruit to eat, he had a choice to make: listen to his wife or obey God. The right choice would have been to obey God and trust Him with the consequences. Regardless of how close-knit our families are, our primary allegiance ought to be to God.

**Conflict in Relationships (Col. 3:18–21)**

When Adam and Eve sinned, God had every reason to be upset with them. He had placed them in a perfect setting with every need and want supplied. Furthermore, He had warned them of the devil’s ploy to derail them. They had each other to keep accountable and encourage to remain faithful to God. So we could anticipate that their decision to eat of the forbidden fruit would anger any reasonable being. But how did God react?

God descended upon the Garden of Eden in gentle pursuit of His defectors. After questioning them, He proceeded to offer a solution to their self-inflicted debacle—He would send His only begotten Son to die for humanity so that anyone who wanted salvation could have it. When God is disappointed in a relationship, He offers Himself as the resolution to the conflict. Thus we see a clear distinction between anger and sin. Though God gets angry, He never sins.

By contrast, anytime conflict arises in our relationships, we are the first to go on the defensive. This is precisely what Adam and Eve did. Adam blamed God and Eve, and Eve, in turn, blamed God and the serpent. Blaming does not resolve the conflict. In fact, it serves only to exacerbate a dire situation, increasing the rift between those in the relationship.

The next time we find ourselves in conflict with family members, let us learn from God’s example. Instead of thinking of ways to defend our selves at the expense of others, let us think of how to mend the brokenness at the root of the conflict. It will require a selfless attitude, a willingness to incur personal hurt, and greater regard for our fellow humans than for ourselves.

If we are honest with ourselves, we do not possess the kind of selfless love that it takes to resolve conflicts in God’s way. But that is why we need Jesus to transform us to be like Him!

**Rising Above Yielding to Sin (Matt. 7:1, 2; Heb. 12:14; Rom. 3:23; Phil. 2:4–8)**

Beyond overcoming conflict, though, it would be ideal to avoid it altogether. That was God’s goal in warning Adam and Eve about eating from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Although it was planned from the foundation of the world (cf. Rev. 13:8), the death of Christ on the cross to save us from sin was not God’s ideal (cf. 1 John 2:1a). Now that sin has entered the world, God’s salvation is not only about forgiving wrongdoing but also about helping us to avoid falling into sin (cf. Jude 24).

“Whatsoever things are lovely”; “judge not”; “follow peace with all men” (Phil. 4:8; Matt. 7:1, 2; Heb. 12:14): these are just a few of God’s counsels that are useful to avoid conflict. If we consider our own faults and see the bright side of the situation, we can leverage conflict and move the relationship forward.

**Your Weapons in Conflict (Eph. 6:10–18)**

When conflicts do arise, it is crucial that we understand what we are up against. There is a larger struggle at play—the great controversy. Adam may not have fully realized the broad ramifications of his decision to eat of the fruit, but that one choice is what has brought us to this place in history. Similarly, the way we handle conflict in our lives has the potential to bless or curse others to an extent that we cannot fully fathom.

The devil entered the perfection of Eden, a specific geographic location on earth, and in one conversation left the whole world desolate and tainted with conflict. Just this one example shows us the massive loss we can experience if we enter conflict with just pure emotion.

In light of the weight of our choices, the Bible counsels us to fight our battles with spiritual weapons (Eph. 6:11). Our swords are not hurtful words but the Word of God. Our protective gear is not deflective blaming but the breastplate of righteousness, the shield of faith, and the helmet of salvation. Moreover, we must approach every situation prayerfully, recognizing our own deficiency and God’s sufficiency to reconcile any possible schisms.

**React**

`1. What does selflessness in the midst of conflict look like?`

`2. How may I apply prayer to overcome in times of conflict?`

---

_Elaine Thompson, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_