---
title:  Angry Choices
date:  04/06/2019
---

**Testimony**: Matt. 5:21–23; 21; Eph. 4:26, 27

One of the hardest things for me to do as a Christian has been to control my temper. Anger was my comfort food. In the midst of distress I would hold on to anger, begging it to solve all my problems, and it never provided positive results. After being frustrated with this cycle of being angry and making bad decisions, I began searching Scripture for a solution and came across Matthew 5:21–23. Here Jesus warns that if you are angry with your neighbor, you are subject to judgment. This resulted in an internal predicament, for how can being angry result in judgment when Jesus was angry in Matthew 21?

After wrestling with the notion that anger results in judgment and studying my Bible, I came across Paul’s words that clarified this issue. In Ephesians 4:26, 27, Paul writes, “And ‘don’t sin by letting anger control you.’ Don’t let the sun go down while you are still angry, for anger gives a foothold to the devil” (NLT). Like many things in this life, anger can be used as a gateway to sin. If we allow anger to fester, we become blind to the will of God and overwhelmed with the desire to satisfy our anger. Through these verses, I learned that holding on to anger doesn’t result in solutions; it results in my leaning on my own understanding rather than leaning on Christ. But how do we put this knowledge into action?

Through much prayer and counsel from my circle of friends, I have developed three steps that have helped me in my moments of anger. Step one is to isolate yourself from the situation. This may be either an emotional isolation where you put aside your feelings until there is an appropriate time to address them or a physical isolation where you remove yourself from the person who has provoked you. Step two is to pray; in your prayers tell God how you feel and ask to be shown what to do or say. Step three is to reflect. Writing allows me to get a better understanding of the situation I am in and helps me find a clear solution. You may prefer to communicate with a person you trust or sit alone with your thoughts. Whatever your method is, it is important that we take time to think and reflect and allow God to speak. I pray these steps guide and encourage you as they have assisted me. May you be patient with yourself as you begin this journey and cling to God at all times.

**React**

`How can you ensure that you are managing your anger rather than allowing anger to control you?`

---

_Stephanie French, Alberta, Canada_