---
title:  Who Is Your Master?
date:  05/06/2019
---

**How-to**: Phil. 2:3; Heb. 12:14

Recently I learned that anyone who can control my response in any situation is my master and now holds the place of God in my life. How so? you might ask. It is because I have surrendered myself to their leadership, and they can now use me like a puppet on a string. They can trigger me to lose control of myself and ride the waves of my emotion. Shocking, isn’t it? Yet it makes sense; if someone knows how to make you sad, happy, excited, or angry, that person can play with your emotions and master you.

It is no wonder Paul says that he brings his body under subjection, lest he preach to others yet become a castaway himself (1 Cor. 9:27). Daily, as we traverse life’s path, we face times of trouble or conflict in our marriages, friendships, and work relationships. How do we make it practical so that we don’t yield ourselves to the wrong master?

Understand what your triggers are. We are all prone to losing our tempers or saying the wrong thing. Why? Because we have triggers that have been imprinted in our neural pathways that instantly tell our brains how to respond. Being self-aware is the first step in overcoming being mastered by the wrong master.

Read God’s counsel on how you should respond. Once we know how we should respond, then we will know the growth we will have to go through. Use the tools that help you to memorize a lesson. In school I used Post- it Notes, flash cards, or apps to remind me of important principles, formulas, and so on to ace my exams. We can use similar reminders daily to reinforce the behavior changes we would like to achieve. Remember: repetition deepens impression.

Pray for the Holy Spirit’s help. We cannot overcome without God’s help; the Holy Spirit is our guide here on earth (John 14:26).

**React**

`1. How does being challenged by God to live peaceably with everyone motivate you to manage your actions?`

`2. We are counseled to esteem others above ourselves; how can we use this principle in our conflict resolution?`

---

_Tashawna Whyte, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_