---
title:  Conflict—Adversity or Asset
date:  06/06/2019
---

**Opinion**: Prov. 19:11; Eph. 4:26, 27; Phil. 2:4–8; Col. 3:19

“For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he” (Prov. 23:7). So our actions are matters of the heart. When a conflict arises, we can look at it as both an adversity and an asset. It just depends on how we use it as a tool in our lives.

If we view conflict as an opportunity, it is a chance to propel us forward. The desires of our heart, backed by faith, will produce the result. It will take resolve and determination to change adversity into an asset. We just need the right desire in our hearts.

Often, in marriage, we have bitterness in our hearts toward our spouses. We get angry for various reasons, yet we are counseled by God not to sin, not to let the sun go down on our wrath, and not to give the devil a foothold (Eph. 4:26, 27). This is easy to say but hard for a lot of us to put into practice because we get lost in our emotions, and then we sin. Yet there is hope!

“The discretion of a man makes him slow to anger. It is his glory to overlook an offense” (Prov. 19:11, WEB). To turn a conflict into an asset, one needs to understand the situation by taking time to ask questions. This will allow you to see things from your spouse’s perspective. If the situation is something that you will be too angry about, it is good to have a godly accountability partner with whom you can talk things through and pray. Take the time to analyze your feelings, and try to communicate clearly to your spouse what made you feel hurt. Talk about your feelings openly, find a resolution, take the time to heal, and continue building together.

**React**

`1. How important is it to have the mind of Christ in us to overcome conflict?`

`2. As husbands, how are we called to love our wives and not be bitter against them?`

---

_Cerance Stephens, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_