---
title:  To Fear God
date:  18/10/2021
---

Moses told the children of Israel to love God with all that they had. That was a command. However, a few verses earlier Moses gave them another command: “ ‘That you may fear the Lord your God’ ” (Deut. 6:2, NKJV).

`Read Deuteronomy 10:12. What does it say in this text about love and fear, and how do we understand it?`

In one verse they are told to fear God, in another to love Him, and in this verse they are told to both fear and love Him at the same time. In the common understanding of the word “fear” this might seem like a contradiction, but it’s not. Instead, the fear of God—in the sense of awe and respect for who He is, His authority and power and justice and righteousness, especially in contrast to our sinfulness, weakness, and complete dependence on Him—should be a natural reaction. We are fallen beings, beings who have violated God’s law and who, but for His grace, deserve condemnation and eternal death.

`Read Ephesians 2:1–10. How should these verses help us understand how we can both fear and love God at the same time?`

Despite the fact that we were “children of wrath” (which is why we should fear Him), Christ died for us and thus gave us a new life in Him, which includes freedom from the sin and condemnation of the past (which is why we should love Him).

And just as this is true for us today, this same principle applied to ancient Israel: they were captives in Egypt, condemned to slavery and oppression, and it was only God’s love for them and graciousness toward them that led to their great redemption. “ ‘Remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out from there’ ” (Deut. 5:15, NKJV). No wonder, then, that they both loved and feared God at the same time. And if they were to do that, how much more should we, having the great truth of Jesus dying on the cross for us?

`Read Revelation 14:6, 7. How are we to understand why the command to “fear God” should be the first command of the Lord’s last-day message to the world? Given what we know about what is coming on the world, why does that command make so much sense?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Humility and reverence should characterize the deportment of all who come into the presence of God. In the name of Jesus we may come before Him with confidence, but we must not approach Him with the boldness of presumption, as though He were on a level with ourselves. There are those who address the great and all-powerful and holy God, who dwelleth in light unapproachable, as they would address an equal, or even an inferior. There are those who conduct themselves in His house as they would not presume to do in the audience chamber of an earthly ruler. These should remember that they are in His sight whom seraphim adore, before whom angels veil their faces. God is greatly to be reverenced; all who truly realize His presence will bow in humility before Him, and, like Jacob beholding the vision of God, they will cry out, “. . . This is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.”—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, p. 252.

The heart that has once tasted the love of Christ, cries out continually for a deeper draft, and as you impart you will receive in richer and more abundant measure. Every revelation of God to the soul increases the capacity to know and to love. The continual cry of the heart is, “More of Thee,” and ever the Spirit’s answer is, “Much more.” Romans 5:9, 10. For our God delights to do “exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think.” Ephesians 3:20. . . .<br/>
God has poured out His love unstintedly, as the showers that refresh the earth. He says, “Let the skies pour down righteousness: let the earth open, and let them bring forth salvation, and let righteousness spring up together.” . . . Isaiah 45:8.—_Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, pp. 20, 21.

The first angel of Revelation 14 calls upon men to “fear God, and give glory to him,” and to worship Him as the Creator of the heavens and the earth. In order to do this, they must obey His law. Without obedience to His commandments, no worship can be pleasing to God; for “this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments” (1 John 5:3).<br/>
Many religious teachers say that Christ, by His death, freed us from the law; but not all take this view. The law of God, from its very nature, is unchangeable. It is a revelation of the will and character of its Author. God is love, and His law is love. Its two great principles are love to God and man. “Love is the fulfilling of the law.” The character of God is righteousness and truth, and such is the nature of His law. The psalmist says, “Thy law is the truth”; “all thy commandments are righteousness.” And the apostle Paul declares, “The law is holy, and the commandments holy, and just, and good.” Such a law, an expression of the mind and will of God, must be as enduring as its Author.—_Reflecting Christ_, p. 62.