---
title:  “If You Love Me, Keep My Commandments”
date:  20/10/2021
---

Israel—the nation as a whole—was called to love God. But this was something that only could happen individually. As a single human being given free will, each Israelite had to make the choice to love God—and they were to show that love through obedience.

**What do the following texts have in common? That is, what is the common theme among them?**

`Deut. 5:10`

`Deut. 7:9`

`Deut. 10:12, 13`

`Deut. 11:1`

`Deut. 19:9`

How much clearer could the Word of God be? Just as God doesn’t merely say He loves us but has revealed that love for us by what He has done and still does, God’s people, too, are to show their love to God by their actions. And in these texts we see that love to God is inseparably linked to obedience to Him.

This is why, when John says such things as, “For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments” (1 John 5:3, NKJV), or when Jesus says, “ ‘If you love Me, keep My commandments’ ” (John 14:15, NKJV), these verses are merely expressing this basic teaching. Love to God must always be expressed by obedience to God. That has always been the case, and it always will be. And this obedience to God means obedience to His law, the Ten Commandments, which includes the fourth commandment, the Sabbath, as well. Keeping the fourth commandment is no more legalism than is keeping any of the other nine.

Though obedience to any of the commandments can be legalism, that kind of obedience isn’t really done out of love for God. When we truly love God, especially because of what He has done for us in Christ Jesus, we want to obey Him, because that’s what He asks us to do.

When Moses again and again told Israel to love and obey God, he did it after they had been redeemed from Egypt. That is, their love and obedience was a response to the redemption that God had given them. They had been redeemed by the Lord. Now they would respond by faithfully obeying His commandments. Is it any different today?

`What is your own experience in seeking to obey God? That is, what are your own motives in obeying God? Why should it be done out of love for Him? What role, if any, should fear, the biblical understanding of fear, play, as well?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Keep Jesus uplifted. We are laborers together with God. We are provided with spiritual weapons, mighty to the pulling down of the strongholds of the enemy. We must in no case misrepresent our faith by weaving unChristlike attributes into the work. We must exalt the law of God, as binding us up with Jesus Christ and all who love Him and keep His commandments. We are also to reveal a love for the souls for whom Christ has died. Our faith is to be demonstrated as a power of which Christ is the Author. And the Bible, His word, is to make us wise unto salvation.—_This Day With God_, p. 99.

We are to reflect the character of Jesus. Everywhere . . . we should let the lovely image of Jesus appear. This we cannot do unless we are filled with His fullness. If we would become better acquainted with Jesus, we should love Him for His goodness and excellence and we should desire to become so assimilated to His divine character that all would know that we had been with Jesus, and learned of Him. . . .<br/>
. . . Sinners will be constrained to confess that we are not the children of darkness, but the children of light. How shall they know this? By the fruits we bear. . . . There must be a deep work of grace—the love of God in the heart, and this love is expressed by obedience. . . .<br/>
Our hearts may be filled with all the fullness of God; but there is something for us to do. We must not pet our faults and sins, but put them away, and make haste to set our hearts in order. When this is done, let us take the key of faith, and unlock the storehouse of God’s rich blessings.—_Lift Him Up_, p. 266.

Christ attaches a weight of importance to the obedience of His people to the commandments of God. They are to have an intelligent knowledge of them, and bring them into their daily life. Man cannot keep the commandments of God, only as he is in Christ, and Christ in him. And it is not possible for him to be in Christ, having light on His commandments, while disregarding the least of them. By steadfast, willing obedience to His word, they evidence their love for the Sent of God.<br/>
Not to keep the commandments of God is not to love Him. None will keep the law of God unless they love Him who is the only begotten of the Father. And nonetheless surely; if they love Him, they will express that love by obedience to Him. All who love Christ will be loved of the Father, and He will manifest Himself to them. In all their emergencies and perplexities they will have a helper in Jesus Christ.—_This Day With God_, p. 142.