---
title:  The Question of “Justification”
date:   16/07/2017
---

_(Gal. 2:15, 16)_

`In Galatians 2:15, Paul writes, “We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners” (ESV). What point do you think he was making?`

Paul’s words need to be understood in their context. In an attempt to win over his fellow Jewish Christians to his position, Paul starts with something they would agree with—the traditional distinction between Jews and Gentiles. Jews were the elect of God, entrusted with His law, and they enjoyed the benefits of the covenant relationship with Him. Gentiles, however, were sinners; God’s law did not restrain their behavior, and they were outside the covenants of promise (Eph. 2:12, Rom. 2:14). However, while Gentiles were obviously “sinners,” in verse 16 Paul warns the Jewish Christians that their spiritual privileges do not make them any more acceptable to God, because no one is justified by “works of the law.”

`Paul uses the word justified fourtimes in Galatians 2:16,17.What does he mean by “justification”? Consider Exod. 23:7 and Deut. 25:1.`

The verb to justify is a key term for Paul. Of the 39 times it occurs in the New Testament, 27 are in Paul’s letters. He uses it eight times in Galatians, including four references in Galatians 2:16, 17 alone. Justification, though, is a legal term. It deals with the verdict a judge pronounces when a person is declared innocent of the charges brought against him or her. It is the opposite of condemnation. Additionally, because the words just and righteous come from the same Greek word, for a person “to be justified” means that the person also is counted as “righteous.”Thus, justification involves more than simply pardon or forgiveness; it is the positive declaration that a person is righteous.

For some of the Jewish believers, however, justification also was relational. It revolved around their relationship with God and His covenant. To be “justified” also meant that a person was counted as a faithful member of God’s covenantal community, the family of Abraham.

`Read Galatians 2:15–17.What is Paul saying to you here, and how can you apply these words to your own Christian experience?`
