---
title:  Reconciliation and Hope
date:  21/02/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Col. 1:20–29, Eph. 5:27, Eph. 3:17, Rom. 8:18, Eph. 1:7–10, Eph. 3:3–6, Prov. 14:12.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in him” (2 Corinthians 5:21).

Paul continues the theme of reconciliation, which was so vividly highlighted in Colossians 1:20 (see Lesson 8, Thursday). There he described its cosmic scope, while what follows it becomes personal and individual. Through His death on the cross, Jesus has accomplished reconciliation for everyone and everything, especially human beings, who were alienated from the life of God through sin, but now can be reconciled to Him through faith.

The process of individual reconciliation is unpacked in this week’s passage. As with the cosmic sphere, it happens through the death of Christ. On the individual level, the cross, far from being a passive symbol, becomes an active reality, with God’s love transforming people as they hear the gospel and receive Christ Himself, the hope of glory.

Paul also talks about “the mystery which has been hidden from ages and from generations” (Col. 1:26, NKJV). What is this mystery, and what all does it envision—for the individual and for the universe? How does this “mystery” relate to the gospel that Paul has so passionately proclaimed?

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, February 28._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In the Revelation he [Satan] is declared to be the “accuser of our brethren,” “which accused them before our God day and night.” Revelation 12:10. The controversy is repeated over every soul that is rescued from the power of evil and whose name is registered in the Lamb’s book of life. Never is one received from the family of Satan into the family of God without exciting the determined resistance of the wicked one. . . . He leads men into skepticism, causing them to lose confidence in God and to separate from His love; he tempts them to break His law, and then he claims them as his captives and contests the right of Christ to take them from him. He knows that those who seek God earnestly for pardon and grace will obtain it; therefore he presents their sins before them to discourage them. . . . By countless devices, the most subtle and the most cruel, he endeavors to secure their condemnation.\
Man cannot meet these charges himself. In his sin-stained garments, confessing his guilt, he stands before God. But Jesus our Advocate presents an effectual plea in behalf of all who by repentance and faith have committed the keeping of their souls to Him. He pleads their cause and vanquishes their accuser by the mighty arguments of Calvary. His perfect obedience to God’s law, even unto the death of the cross, has given Him all power in heaven and in earth, and He claims of His Father mercy and reconciliation for guilty man. . . .\
Not one soul that in penitence and faith has claimed His protection will Christ permit to pass under the enemy’s power. His word is pledged: “Let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with me; and he shall make peace with me.” The promise. . . is made to all: “If thou wilt keep my charge, . . . I will give thee places to walk among these that stand by.” Zechariah 3:7. Angels of God will walk on either side of them, even in this world, and they will stand at last among the angels that surround the throne of God.”—The Faith I Live By, p. 324.

In partaking with His disciples of the bread and wine, Christ pledged Himself to them as their Redeemer. . . . As we receive the bread and wine symbolizing Christ’s broken body and spilled blood, we in imagination join in the scene of Communion in the upper chamber. We seem to be passing through the garden consecrated by the agony of Him who bore the sins of the world. We witness the struggle by which our reconciliation with God was obtained. Christ is set forth crucified among us.\
Looking upon the crucified Redeemer, we more fully comprehend the magnitude and meaning of the sacrifice made by the Majesty of heaven. The plan of salvation is glorified before us, and the thought of Calvary awakens living and sacred emotions in our hearts. Praise to God and the Lamb will be in our hearts and on our lips; for pride and self-worship cannot flourish in the soul that keeps fresh in memory the scenes of Calvary.—The Faith I Live By, p. 300.