---
title:  If You Continue in the Faith
date:  23/02/2026
---

`Read Colossians 1:23 (NKJV). What do you think Paul means by remaining “grounded and steadfast” in the faith? (See also Col. 2:5 and Eph. 3:17.)`

There are four different types of “if” statements in Greek, each with different nuances. The one with which Colossians 1:23 begins assumes that the condition is true. That is, Paul encourages the Colossians with the thought that they will, indeed, continue in the faith. As Paul soon indicates, he has already seen evidence of their faith and steadfastness (Col. 2:5). Nevertheless, their hope is still conditional on their persisting on the path of faith that they have entered.

This idea of persisting is the meaning of the Greek word translated “continue” (Col. 1:23, NKJV). It is used of the scribes and Pharisees who continued to demand of Jesus an answer as to what should be done with the woman caught in adultery (John 8:7); also of Peter continuing to knock at the door after Rhoda recognized his voice but left it locked and ran inside to tell the others (Acts 12:16). It is also used by Paul, who encourages Timothy to remain faithful to the doctrinal and practical instructions he has given (1 Tim. 4:16). His meaning here is similar except that it is applied to believers generally.

As we will see in next week’s lesson, Paul is concerned that the Colossians may chase after human-based ways of salvation instead of holding fast to the hope offered by the gospel (see, for example, Col. 2:8, 20–22). The word “grounded” refers to having laid a solid foundation of faith and love based on God’s Word (see Matt. 7:25, Eph. 2:20, Eph. 3:17).

Related to this idea is the Greek word translated “steadfast,” referring to an immovable structure and, by extension, to a Christian who cannot be “moved away from the hope of the gospel” (Col. 1:23). The same word is used in 1 Corinthians 15:58: “be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord” (NKJV).

Contrary to the common belief of “once saved, always saved,” Paul is saying something completely different.

`What has been your experience regarding the importance of continuing to exercise faith? That is, why must you always make a conscious choice to do that? What will happen if you don’t?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God means we shall trust in Him and enjoy His goodness. He lays out day by day before us and we must have eyes and perceptive powers to take these things in. However great and glorious the full and perfect deliverance from evil we shall realize in heaven, it is not all to be kept for the time of final deliverance. God brings it into our present life. We need daily to cultivate faith in a present Saviour. Trusting in a power out of and above ourselves, exercising faith in unseen support and power which is waiting the demand of the needy and dependent, we can trust amid clouds as well as sunshine, singing of present deliverance and present enjoyment of His love. The life we now live must be by faith in the Son of God.\
The Christian’s life is a strangely mingled scene of sorrows and joys, disappointments and hopes, fears and confidence. There will be much dissatisfaction with self, as he views his own heart so deeply stirred, surged with passion that seems to bear all before it, and then follows remorse and sorrow and repentance, followed by peace and deep hidden joys, because he knows, as his faith grasps the promises that are revealed in God’s Word, that he has the forgiving love of a longsuffering Saviour. And that Saviour, he seeks to bring into his life, weave into his character.\
It is these revealings, these discoveries of God’s goodness, that make the soul humble and lead it to cry out in gratitude, “I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me” (Galatians 2:20). We have reason to be comforted. Severe outward trials may press around the soul where Jesus lives. Let us turn to Him for the consolations He has provided for us in His Word. The nether springs of hope and comfort may appear to fail us, but the upper springs which feed the river of God are full of supply and can never be dried up. God would have you look away from the cause of your afflictions to Him who is the Owner of soul, body, and spirit. He is the lover of the soul. He knows the value of the soul. He is the true Vine and we are the branches. We shall have no spiritual nourishment only as we draw it from Jesus who is the life of the soul.—This Day With God, p. 62.

Only the influence of the grace of God will lead men to take their stand on the self-denying liberal side. The cause of God must not in any case be hindered. The message “Repent and be converted,” must go to all parts of the world. God has freely bestowed upon us His treasures of sunshine and shower, to cause vegetation to flourish, and He expects every believer to show willing liberality in advancing the cause of truth. We need now to work as we have never worked before, that the gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation, may be proclaimed throughout the world. And those who are converted to the truth are to be the means, through their self-sacrifice, of keeping the treasury supplied, that there may be meat in the Lord’s house.—This Day With God, p. 347.