---
title:  Power of the Gospel
date:  26/02/2026
---

`Read Colossians 1:28, 29. What is Paul’s focus? Why do you think “everyone” (ESV) is repeated three times?`

The focus of Paul’s preaching was Christ and Him crucified (1 Cor. 1:23). According to Ephesians 5:27, the purpose of Christ’s sacrifice is “that He might present her [the church] to Himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish” (NKJV). Thus, the aim of Paul’s gospel preaching is to “present everyone mature in Christ” (Col. 1:28, ESV). He does this by teaching and warning—teaching the various points of Christian doctrine and practice (2 Thess. 2:15, 1 Tim. 4:11, 1 Tim. 5:7, Titus 1:9) and warning of the consequences for rejecting the gospel and of the dangers of false teachers (Acts 20:29–31, Rom. 16:17).

This is how we grow to be mature Christians, by accepting the teachings and heeding the warnings of Scripture. Maturity is an important concept. The parents of a newborn baby celebrate every milestone—first words, learning to walk, and learning to read. What parent would not be alarmed if their child, after several years, was still unable to walk or talk? Growth and development are normal and expected. The same is true of the Christian life.

The Greek word translated “mature” (_teleios_) means perfect and without defect. Through the process of Christian growth, we become keenly aware of the depth of God’s law and that its requirements are “exceedingly broad” (Ps. 119:96, NKJV). We understand it extends to “the thoughts and intents of the heart” (Heb. 4:12).

But we need to be careful, which is why Paul used the word “warning” in Colossians 1:28. The way that “seems right . . . is the way of death” (Prov. 14:12, NKJV). Spiritual discernment comes from a Spirit-guided knowledge of God’s Word. False teachings usually have some truth but either add to or take away something of what the Bible says _(see Isa. 8:20)_. The latter often succeeds, if not by directly doubting what God says, then at least by questioning whether it is really possible or whether it is applicable to our day. We must be wise as serpents but harmless as doves when it comes to discerning doctrinal truth from error.

`How do you understand what it means to be “perfect in Christ Jesus” (Col. 1:28)? How does an understanding of what Jesus accomplished for us at the cross help in knowing what it means to be “perfect in Christ Jesus”?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The law of God, from its very nature, is unchangeable. It is a revelation of the will and the character of its Author. God is love, and His law is love. Its two great principles are love to God and love to man. . . . The character of God is righteousness and truth; such is the nature of His law. . . .\
In the beginning, man was created in the image of God. He was in perfect harmony with the nature and the law of God; the principles of righteousness were written upon his heart. But sin alienated him from his Maker. He no longer reflected the divine image. His heart was at war with the principles of God’s law. . . . But “God so loved the world, that he gave his only-begotten Son,” that man might be reconciled to God. Through the merits of Christ he can be restored to harmony with his Maker. His heart must be renewed by divine grace; he must have a new life from above. This change is the new birth. . . .\
The first step in reconciliation to God is the conviction of sin. . . . “By the law is the knowledge of sin” (Romans 3:20). In order to see his guilt, the sinner must test his character by God’s great standard of righteousness. It is a mirror which shows the perfection of a righteous character and enables him to discern the defects of his own. The law reveals to man his sin. . . . It declares that death is the portion of the transgressor. The gospel of Christ alone can free him from the condemnation or the defilement of sin. He must exercise repentance toward God, whose law has been transgressed; and faith in Christ, his atoning sacrifice. . . .\
In the new birth the heart is brought into harmony with God, as it is brought into accord with His law. When this mighty change has taken place in the sinner, he has passed from death unto life, from sin unto holiness, from transgression and rebellion to obedience and loyalty. . . .\
The followers of Christ are to become like Him—by the grace of God to form characters in harmony with the principles of His holy law. This is Bible sanctification.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 20.