### Introduction

The four Gospels present major events in Jesus’ life. What He did, where He went, and the aim of His mission and miracles were recorded for our growth and learning. To paint a cohesive picture of Christ’s life, we often blend the four descriptions into a single portrait. In this quarter, we will focus largely on the Gospel of John, one of the most treasured books in the New Testament. In this book, we gain new and distinctive insights into Jesus’ life—insights not shared in Matthew, Mark, or Luke.

John is a favorite Gospel for many because it weaves a unique tapestry that reveals Jesus. The other three are commonly called the Synoptic Gospels, meaning they “see together” or have a similar perspective, but John’s is set apart by his overall portrayal of Christ. In John’s book, Jesus performs fewer miracles but has longer speeches. He describes Himself with a series of “I am” statements not found in the Synoptics (as you read through John, see how many you can find). Additionally, this Gospel describes the timeframe of Jesus’ ministry in more detail, recounts three different Passover celebrations, and highlights other Jewish feasts we don’t find in the other Gospels (7:2; 10:22). John mentions the first cleansing of the temple at the beginning of Jesus’ ministry while the Synoptics describe the second one, toward the end of His ministry (John 2:10; cf. Matt. 21:12; Mark 11:15; Luke 19:45). These are but a few of the traits that make John unique.

No Gospel directly identifies its author. This doesn’t mean they were intended to be anonymous, however—Theophilus (Luke 1:3) would certainly have known the author of the Gospel dedicated to him. Matthew’s Gospel contains details that emphasize Matthew’s character. John 21:23 indicates that the author was a disciple of Christ as well as a well-known person about whom rumors might circulate. While his name is not openly stated, it’s safe to assume that the first readers would have known it well.

For modern readers, these bits of information alone don’t identify the authors with any certainty, so we turn to history to find more clues. In the early copies of the manuscripts, titles were used for all four Gospels: “The Gospel according to...” Very early on, the names Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John were linked to their respective Gospels. The broad acceptance of these titles indicates that the four names were likely linked as soon as the four Gospels began circulating widely.

That said, scholars have questioned who wrote John’s Gospel. In summary, their argument is that because John is so different from the Synoptics, it must have been written by someone who wasn’t part of the Twelve. Similarly, they argue that references to John as the author didn’t appear before mid-second century and therefore any traditional views (i.e., that John, brother of James, wrote the fourth Gospel) must be erroneous. So, is there evidence identifying this disciple as John the Apostle?

First, as previously noted, the Gospel indicates that the author was an eyewitness and a disciple (John 21:23, 24). Additionally, the author is described as the one “whom Jesus loved” and who leaned on Jesus’ breast at the supper recorded in chapter 13 (vv. 23–25). This gathering was an intimate group, not the broader selection of people who followed Jesus. The only two disciples named here are Peter and Judas, both of whom were part of the Twelve. Taking all this into account, the one “whom Jesus loved,” the author, must therefore have been among the Twelve.

Second, this book indicates that the author was close with Peter (13:24; 20:2; 21:7). The other Gospels reveal that Peter, James, and John formed a tight group of three among the other disciples (Matt. 17:1; Mark 5:37; Luke 8:51). We know that James was the first of the Twelve to be martyred (Acts 12:2), which left John and Peter as the remaining two in close association. The fourth Gospel mentions Peter by name alongside the beloved disciple, which, when combined with our knowledge from the other New Testament books, implies that John was the beloved disciple and therefore the author.

Third, the early Christian church’s testimony is that John the Apostle authored the fourth Gospel. Christian writers from the second century such as Polycarp, a leader in the early church who knew John personally, and Irenaeus, a later church leader and theologian who knew Polycarp, supported this conclusion.

At any rate, engaging with this Gospel takes us back to the close circle that followed Jesus beginning at His identification as the Messiah. We gain an insider’s view from one who was intimately connected with Jesus. We hear his reflections on Christ after a lifetime of service and contemplation. May your study of John’s Gospel draw you into that close circle of disciples and reveal Christ anew.