---
title:  What Should We Do About Our Bad Decisions?
date:   14/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Nehemiah 13:23–25; Nehemiah 13:26, 27; Ezra 9; Ezra 10.

> **MEMORY VERSE**: <p></p>
> “I prayed, ‘I am filled with shame and dishonor [I have lost respect for myself], my God. I can hardly look to you and pray. That’s [that is] because our sins are piled up above our heads. Our guilt reaches all the way to the heavens’ ” (Ezra 9:6, NIrV).

**EZRA AND NEHEMIAH** become leaders in communities where many people married non-Jews. Soon this practice becomes normal among the Jews. Ezra and Nehemiah are upset about this practice. They want to lead the Jews back to God. Ezra and Nehemiah know what can happen when the Jews marry non-Jews who worship false gods. These false gods can lead God’s people away from God. Look at Israel’s history. Then you will see that Ezra and Nehemiah are right. Awful things happened in the past when the Israelites married people who worshiped false gods. Then God’s people started to follow the Canaanite religions that their husbands and wives followed. Soon God’s people started to worship Baal and Asherah on every high hill in Israel. But that is not all. This false worship hurt Jewish families and their children. The prophet, or special messenger, Balaam told the Moabites to send their women to the Israelite men to lead them away from God. His plan worked. 

What will Ezra and Nehemiah do about these marriages? Will they do nothing? Or will they stand for God’s truth? This week we look at how these two men solved the problem.

_Soon God’s people started to worship Baal and Asherah on every high hill in Israel._