---
title: 'What Does Nehemiah Do'
date: 15/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 13:23–25. What happens in these verses? What does Nehemiah do? How do you explain his actions?`

In this story, we read about a group of children. These children have Jewish fathers. The fathers speak the Aramaic language. Aramaic is the language that the Jews spoke when they lived in Babylon. But their children do not know how to speak the Aramaic language. The children do not speak the Hebrew language either. So, this is a big problem. Why? Because the teachers of the law teach mostly in the Aramaic language. That is the easiest language for the Jews to understand. Why do these children not understand Hebrew or Aramaic? Their Jewish fathers married non-Jewish women from Ammon, Ashdod, and Moab. The mothers take care of the children all day and speak to them in their languages. So, it is no surprise that the children do not speak either the Hebrew language or Aramaic. Language is important. We use the words that are connected with our way of life. So, language helps us talk about and share our thoughts and ideas. The children cannot speak the language that the Bible is written in. So, they do not understand what it means to be a Jew. For Nehemiah, this is a big problem. He is upset that Jewish families cannot understand the Bible. They will lose their connection with the living God. 

Nehemiah punishes the people in public. Bible thinkers say that Nehemiah’s actions are normal for his time. It is the way leaders punished people back then. The Bible says that Nehemiah curses the men. We should not think that Nehemiah uses cuss words! No, Nehemiah reads to them the curses from God’s Covenant, or Special Agreement, in Deuteronomy 28. Nehemiah warns the people what will happen to them when they break the Agreement. Clearly, Nehemiah wants to help the people understand their wrong actions and bad choices. Their sin will bring God’s curses.

Now let us look at what Nehemiah does next. Nehemiah says “I beat up some of them. I pulled their hair out” (Nehemiah 13:25, NIrV). A beating also is a normal form of punishment in Nehemiah’s time. Do you see that Nehemiah beats only “some of them”? Not everyone. Nehemiah punishes only the leaders who caused the wrong behavior or said it was OK. Why does Nehemiah punish the people? Nehemiah wants to make sure that they understand something important. They must make good choices. Or bad things will happen. 

_Nehemiah is upset that Jewish families cannot understand the Bible._