---
title: 'What Does Ezra Do'
date: 17/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Read Ezra 9. Ezra learns about the marriages that the Jews make with people who worship false gods. How does Ezra act when he hears this news? Ezra 9:1, 2, ERV, tell us that the Israelites “ ‘have not kept themselves separate from the other people’ ” living around them. As you can see, the word “separate” is sometimes written as “tell the difference”: Leviticus 10:10; Leviticus 11:47; Exodus 26:33; Genesis 1:4, 6, 7, 14, 18. What do these verses teach us about the word “separate”? Why does the Bible warn us against marrying anyone who does not believe in God? 

The leaders of God’s people come to Ezra. They tell him about the problem in the land. God’s people have married non-Jewish women. These wives worship false gods. The problem is big. The priests, or religious leaders, are guilty. The Levites are too. So, these men do not come to tell Ezra about the problem. The princes, or leaders of the Jews, come to tell Ezra about what is going on.

The word “separate” shows us two different things or ideas. It also shows us that the leaders understand God’s law. They know God wants His people to stay away from false religions. They understand the danger of marrying someone who worships false gods. A wife or husband who does not worship God will hurt the spiritual life of the family. 

“Ezra studied Israel’s history. He looked at the sins that led to his people’s ruin before their enemies carried them away to Babylon. Ezra learned the cause of Israel’s ruin. God’s people married husbands and wives from other religions. Ezra saw something else important too. He saw that God’s people did not obey God’s law to stay separate from the people around them. Then they had many sad experiences that caused them to feel ashamed. Now Ezra learns that God’s people are doing the same thing that got the Jews in trouble in the past. They have not learned their lesson from history. Some Jewish leaders break God’s law against wrong marriages. God gave His people this law to keep them from turning away from Him. The leaders marry wives who do not believe in God. The news upsets Ezra. God gave His people a 2nd chance. But the people are not thankful to God. So, Ezra feels angry. He is sad that the Jews do not care about the good things that God does for them.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 620, adapted.

_A wife or husband who does not worship God will hurt the spiritual life of the family._