---
title: Ezra's Decision
date: 18/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read about the problem in Ezra 10. What do Ezra and the leaders do to solve it?`

The leaders make an agreement. They decide to send the foreign wives away. Do you know what is surprising? All the men who marry the foreign wives agree to the plan too! All of them except for four men. You can read about them in Ezra 10:15. So, the people promise to send their wives away. It takes three months for the Jews to carry out the plan. In the end, 111 Jewish men send their wives away (Ezra 10:18–43). Ezra 10:44 shows us that some of these men and their foreign wives have children. Of course, it is hard for us to understand this decision. How can these men ask their wives and children to leave, right? It does not seem right to us. But we must remember something. This time is special in Israel’s history. God wants to be close with His people again. He wants to give them a new start. The people turned away from Him in the past. Then their enemies took them to Babylon. So, the Jews must follow God carefully now, even if it is hard to obey Him at times.

In Ezra 10:11, 19, the words written as “separate yourself” come from the Hebrew word “**badal**.” The words written as “put away” come from the Hebrew word “**yatza**.” “**Badal**” and “**yatza**” are never written as “divorce” in the Bible. What does that tell us? It shows us that Ezra believes these marriages are not legal. Why? Because they break God’s law. So, Ezra announces that the marriages are not real because they go against God’s law. We do not know what happens to the wives and children from these marriages. We do not know how their leaving Judah changed the community. We do know that the husbands are in charge of sending their own wives and children away. Where do the wives go? Back to their father’s homes.

After some time passes, some Jewish men again decide to marry foreign wives. Maybe they even go back to the wives they sent away. It is easy to talk about these people from far away in our time, right? But we must remember that all of us are human. We have a hard time doing what is right on our own and continuing to do it. We need God’s help and power to make us strong. Even strong believers will say that there were times when they did not always walk with God as they should. Sadly, as humans, we must work hard to put God first in our lives.

_The leaders decide to send the foreign wives away._
