---
title:  MARRIAGE TODAY
date:   19/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The books of Ezra and Nehemiah show us something important about marriage. God cares deeply about who we marry. So, we should care deeply too. We should pray carefully about the person we want to marry. We also should include God in any decision we make. We must be loyal to God’s rules in the Bible. These Bible rules will help protect us from bad choices and the pain and suffering they can cause us.

`What advice does Paul have for someone who is married to a husband or wife who is not a Christian? For the answer, study carefully 1 Corinthians 7:10–17. What should you do about your marriage when your husband or wife does not believe in God?`

It is not very wise for you to think that Ezra’s answer is right and that you must separate from your husband or wife. Remember, Ezra and Nehemiah lived in a special time. God wanted to be close to His people again after being separated from them. So, God showed Ezra and Nehemiah His plan about marriage for His people (Ezra 10:11). The people were in danger. Their wives did not believe in God. So, the Jews must send their wives and children away.

We know about what happened in a Jewish community in Egypt. This community lived during the same time as Ezra and Nehemiah. The Jewish leaders in the Egyptian community allowed the people to marry foreign wives who worshiped false gods. Very soon, the Jews mixed their religion with their wives’ religion. The wives worshiped the goddess Anat. So, they made a new religion with the Jews. They made their goddess the “wife” of God! So, we can see why there was a real need to keep the Jewish faith clean. And we should not use what Ezra and Nehemiah did to break up marriages and families today where Christians are married to non-Christians. At the same time, Ezra and Nehemiah show us that God cares deeply about who we marry. Marriage is very important to God. Satan is very happy when we marry someone who does not encourage us to be close to God. He knows what will happen when a husband and wife are close to God and share the same faith. They will be stronger in their work for God together. We can do more for God together than if we have to work alone. 

_We should pray carefully about the person we want to marry._