---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 20/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**Additional thought**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “Reformation,” pages 669–678, in Prophets and Kings. 

“God wants us to work hard at the work He gives us. Hard work is an important part of true religion. It is important for us to act at the right time. So, we should look for the best ways and times to do God’s work. We must make good decisions. Then we will win. But if we wait and do not act, then we will fail. We will not honor God. Our leaders must show a love for God’s cause too. The leaders must show that they care deeply about doing His work. If the leaders fail to show they care, then the church will not care either. Church members will love pleasure. They will be lazy. So, the church must be filled with holy love for God. The church must want to serve God alone. Then we will be in agreement with each other. We will have hope. 

“The Bible is filled with many stories. Some stories show us people’s sins. Other stories show us holy men and women. God puts the stories of their lives side by side in the Bible for us to see. God wants us to turn away from sin and to accept a holy life. The stories help us make the right choice. In the Bible we read about Sanballat and Tobiah. These men were filled with hate. They lied. They did evil things. The Bible also shows us the stories of Ezra and Nehemiah. These men respected God. They had honor. They were unselfish. God made us free to copy Sanballat and Tobiah’s example or Ezra and Nehemiah’s example. The choice is ours. The Bible shows us what happens when we break God’s law. Then we also see how God blesses us when we obey Him. We must decide for ourselves if we want to suffer God’s curses or enjoy His blessings.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 676, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**:

`1. As we read Ezra and Nehemiah, we see that many men do not put God first. They marry foreign wives. Ezra corrects these men. Yes, they send their wives away. But do their hearts change too? Does their love for God grow stronger? What proof do we have that many men did not change? What can we learn from their mistakes? How important is a heart change?`

`2. Are there people in your church who made unwise marriages? What problems are they having? What can we do as a church to help them?`

_“We must decide for ourselves if we want to suffer God’s curses or enjoy His blessings.”_