---
title:  An Enemy Did This Evil Thing
date:   23/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the picture story in Matthew 13:24–27. How does this story help us understand why there is evil on this planet?`

Jesus tells the story about a landowner who plants good wheat seeds in his field. But weeds grow with the wheat. When the servants of the landowner see the weeds, they ask him, “ ‘You planted good seed in your field. Where did the weeds come from?’ ” (Matthew 13:27, ERV). Many people ask the same question today about the problem with evil: “If God made this earth and everything in it holy, why is there evil in it?”

`Read Matthew 13:28–30, along with Jesus’ explanation in Matthew 13:37–40. How do these verses help us understand the worldwide war between good and evil?`

The landowner answers his servants’ question: “ ‘An enemy planted weeds’ ” (Matthew 13:28, ERV). Jesus later says that the one who plants the good seed is the Son of Man. The Son of Man is Jesus Himself (Matthew 13:37). Jesus also explains that the field is a word picture for this planet (Matthew 13:38). The enemy who planted the weeds is the devil (Matthew 13:39). The word pictures in these verses show the worldwide war between God and Satan. Why is there evil on this planet? Evil came because of the enemy, the devil, who fights against the landowner, or God. That’s what Jesus means when He says that an enemy planted weeds.

The landowner’s answer causes his servants to ask another question: “ ‘Do you want us to go and pull up the weeds?’ ” (Matthew 13:28, ERV). In other words, why not pull up the evil right away? The landowner answered, “ ‘No, because when you pull up the weeds, you might also pull up the wheat. Let the weeds and the wheat grow together until the harvest time [when crops are collected]. At the harvest time I will tell the workers this: First, gather [collect] the weeds and tie them together to be burned. Then gather the wheat and bring it to my barn’ ” (Matthew 13:29, 30, ERV; compare with Mark 4:29). The picture story teaches us that God will finally end evil forever. But destroying evil too soon would cause trouble and hurt the good wheat.