---
title:  The Start Of The Worldwide War On Earth
date:   24/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Another important question about evil is: If God made the earth and skies good, how did evil start here?

`Read Genesis 1:31. What do God’s words show us about the earth and skies when God finished making them? Why is this answer important?`

Genesis 1:31 says that when God finished making the earth, it was “very good” (ERV). In Genesis 1, no evil is anywhere on this planet. How, then, did evil become part of the human experience?

`Read Genesis 3:1–7. What do these verses tell us about how evil got here on earth? How does this answer help us better understand the worldwide war between good and evil? (Also read Revelation 12:7–9.)`

In this story, the snake tells lies about God. The snake is a word picture for the devil himself (Revelation 12:7–9). The snake first uses a question to cause Eve to doubt God’s command. Then the snake attacks what God said when he says to Eve, “ ‘You will not die’ ” (Genesis 3:4, ERV).

Someone, the snake or God, lied to Eve. Eve now has a choice to make. Will she believe what God told her? Or will she believe what the snake said?

Here in Genesis and elsewhere in the Bible, the worldwide war between God and Satan is about what to believe. Will we believe God’s truth or Satan’s lies? Also, this war is really about love. That’s because your beliefs and knowledge about someone help you to know if you can trust, love, and listen to this person.

`Read Genesis 3:15. God tells the snake that a future Son of the woman will be the Savior. The Savior will destroy the snake’s head. Bible thinkers name this promise the first example of the Good News about Jesus in the Bible. How does this promise help us better understand the worldwide war between God and Satan? Also, how does this promise give us hope?`