---
title:  The War Starts In Heaven
date:   25/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Genesis 1–3 shows us that there was evil before Adam and Eve sinned. “Evil” already appeared in the name of the tree of the knowledge about good and evil (Genesis 2:9, 17). At this tree, the snake accuses God of lying when the snake is really the liar. The snake (Revelation 12:9) and his lies show the evil that is in his heart. So, before the Fall happened in Eden, there was evil.

`Read about Lucifer’s fall in Ezekiel 28:12–19. Also read Exodus 25:19, 20. Why does Lucifer fall?`

Ezekiel 28:12–19 tells us how evil started and how the worldwide war between God and Satan began in heaven.

Before Lucifer fell and became Satan, he was a mighty angel. The Bible also tells us that he was “an example of what was perfect. You were full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. You had a wonderful life . . . in Eden, the garden of God” (Ezekiel 28:12, 13, ICB). The king of Tyre did not live in Eden. As a sinner, the king of Tyre wasn’t perfect. So, these verses can’t be talking about the real king of Tyre (or any other human). The king of Tyre is a word picture for Lucifer. So, in these verses, we are really reading about the fall of Lucifer.

`Read Isaiah 14:12–15. What extra information do these verses give us about the worldwide war between good and evil?`

In Isaiah 14, Lucifer decided to make himself the same as God. Isaiah 14 adds more information to what we read about Lucifer in Ezekiel 28. Lucifer’s heart was filled with pride because of his beauty (Ezekiel 28:17). Lucifer didn’t worship the God who made him beautiful. Lucifer tried to replace God with himself. Lucifer lied about God. The Hebrew word in Ezekiel 28:16 for “trading” (NLV) or “traded” (ICB) means to talk bad about somebody and say false things about that person. This word shows us how Satan will work against God and His people in the end times.