---
title:  If You Worship Me
date:   26/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw yesterday, Satan wanted to remove God and replace Him with himself. We see this same evil plan in stories in Matthew 4 and Luke 4. In these chapters, Satan tries to get Jesus to sin. We learn a lot about the worldwide war between God and Satan in these chapters.

`Read Matthew 4:1–11. How is the worldwide war between God and Satan shown in these verses?`

The Spirit led Jesus into the desert so that the devil could try to get Him to sin (Matthew 4:1). Before Jesus met with Satan, He ate no food for 40 days. Jesus was very hungry. So, when the devil came, he tried to get Jesus to change the stones into bread. Jesus fought the devil with Bible verses, and Satan’s plan failed.

Next, Satan tried to get Jesus to throw Himself off the top of the temple. Satan tried to make the Bible say something that it didn’t promise. Satan told Jesus that if He was truly God’s Son, angels would protect Him if He jumped. But Jesus used Bible verses to fight against Satan and his lies.

The third time Satan tried to get Jesus to sin shows us what he was trying to do. Satan wants Jesus to worship him. Satan tries to steal the worship that belongs to God.

To get Jesus to worship him, Satan “led Jesus to the top of a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of [on] the world [earth] and all the wonderful things in them. The devil said, ‘If you will bow down and worship me, I will give you all these things’ ” (Matthew 4:8, 9, ERV). We can read the same story in Luke 4. In Luke 4:6, the devil says to Jesus, “ ‘I will give you all these kingdoms and all their power and glory. It has all been given to me, and I can give it to anyone I wish’ ” (ICB).

Again, Jesus fights against the devil with Bible verses. Again, Satan loses the fight.

In all three examples, Jesus uses the Bible to fight against the enemy.

`Ephesians 6:12 tells us about our real enemies. We are fighting against evil spirits. But we must not live in fear. Jesus will help us win. At the same time, why must we always remember what is really going on around us?`