---
title:  What The Worlwide War Is All About
date:   27/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

How can God and Satan have a war against each other? If God and Satan war against each other about power, the war would be finished in one minute. That’s because Satan can’t beat God. So, the war must be about something else. The Bible shows us that the war is about God and His government. Satan says that God is not fully good and loving. God can’t destroy these lies with power. So, God must compare His government with Satan’s to show how the two governments are different.

“When God fights against sin, He can only use Bible truth and His holy law. Satan can use what God can’t use: lies and tricks. Satan tried to make the Bible say things it didn’t mean. Satan also lied about God’s government to the angels. Satan told the angels that God was not fair in commanding them to obey laws and rules. Satan said that God was trying to make Himself more important and powerful than He really was when He asked the angels to obey Him. So, God must show the angels in heaven and the people on all the other planets that His government was fair and that His law was perfect. Satan tried to make the angels believe that He wanted the best for everyone in heaven. God must show everyone Satan’s real plan. So, God gave Satan time to show who he was by all the evil things he did.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 498, adapted.

`Read John 8:44, 45, along with Revelation 12:7–9. What do these verses show us about the devil and his plan?`

The devil’s plan from the start was to try to make people believe that God wasn’t really fair and loving. Satan also wanted people to believe that God’s law hurt people and made them slaves. No wonder Jesus says the devil is “ ‘a liar. He is the father of lies’ ” (John 8:44, ERV). Jesus came to “ ‘to tell people about the truth’ ” (John 18:37, ERV). Jesus came to destroy the devil’s lies and, in the end, the devil himself (1 John 3:8; Hebrews 2:14).

Revelation 12:9, 10 shows that Satan is (1) the snake, (2) the one who accuses God’s people, and (3) the dragon who lies to everyone. In the Greek language, the word “devil” means someone who tells lies. This word shows us that the worldwide war between good and evil is about beliefs, including what we believe about God and who He is.