---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   28/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Origin of Evil,” pages 492–504, in The Great Controversy.

“The Bible teaches very clearly that God did not make sin. Sin did not start in heaven because of something God did. Sin didn’t start because there was something wrong with God’s government. Sin is an enemy. No reason can be given for sin. Sin is a mystery. No one can explain it. If we could give a reason for sin, then that is the same as making an excuse for sin. . . . What if God destroyed Satan right away? Then the angels in heaven and the people on other planets would serve God with fear and not with love. Satan’s power would continue and not be fully destroyed. Other angels would continue to fight against God. For the good of heaven for all ages to come, Satan must be allowed to fully show the rules of his government. Then everyone will see that God’s government was good and fair. They would see that God’s mercy and His law should forever be trusted and obeyed.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 492, 493, 499, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Many people wonder how Lucifer, a perfect angel, could sin for the first time. Why is sin a mystery? Why can’t we excuse sin? How can we explain this first sin without making an excuse? Why would trying to give a reason for how this first sin started be the same as making it okay?`

`Why didn’t God destroy Satan right away? Why must evil be allowed to grow and show itself for what it really is? How is this plan for the good of everyone in heaven and on earth for all ages to come?`

`Why is it so important to understand that the worldwide war between God and Satan is not about power and might? What type of war is it? How does a conflict about God’s government, His law, and His love help us understand what this war is all about?`

`In what ways does your own life show the worldwide war between God and Satan? How should you behave to show whose side you are on?`