---
title:  "Giants of Faith: Joshua and Caleb"
date:  15/11/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Numbers 13:6; Joshua 14:6–14; Joshua 15:16–19; Joshua 19:49–51; Hebrews 12:1, 2; 2 Corinthians 3:18; Romans 12: 1, 2.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Remember your leaders. They taught God’s message to you. Remember how they lived and died, and copy their faith” (Hebrews 13:7, ERV).

Every parent knows that children learn from the examples of the people around them. Many parents feel upset when they see their children copy their bad behavior and not their good behavior. Whatever our age, we often want to do evil or wrong more than we want to do good or right. As Paul says, “I don’t understand why I act the way I do. I don’t do the good I want to do, and I do the evil I hate” (Romans 7:15, ERV). We all have felt this way, right?

From the time we are born, we copy the things we see other people do. We copy how our loved ones walk, talk, and show their feelings. We learn to do the most basic things in life this way. As adults, we continue to need good examples. We need heroes we can admire who can show us how to live and be better people. Maybe these people aren’t perfect. But their spiritual lives help us to improve our own lives. That’s what makes these people “giants” whose faith we can look up to and admire.

This week, we look at the personal examples of two giants of faith in the book of Joshua: Caleb and Joshua. What made these men stand out? How did they bless God’s people during one of the most important times in Israel’s history?