---
title:  Men Of Faith
date:  16/11/2025
---

`Who was Caleb? Read Numbers 13:6, 30–32 and Joshua 14:6, 14 for the answer.`

The name Caleb comes from the Hebrew word “keleb.” “Keleb” means dog in the Hebrew language. In the Old Testament, “keleb” always means something bad. But in other writings outside the Bible, the word “keleb” is used in letters and hymns to mean a servant’s courage. The word “keleb” is also used in these hymns and letters to mean a servant who is loyal to his master. Caleb’s life showed that he was loyal to his Lord.

`Caleb wasn’t afraid to speak the truth, even when most of the spies didn’t agree with him. Caleb also wasn’t afraid to speak the truth when the Israelites wanted to kill him. What do these things teach us about Caleb? Read Numbers 14:6–10, 21–25; Numbers 26:65; and Numbers 32:12 to answer the question.`

Who were some of the important Israelite leaders during the time of Caleb and Joshua? These leaders were named Shammua, Shaphat, Igal, Palti, Gaddiel, Gaddi, Ammiel, Sethur, Nahbi, and Geuel. Do you know who any of these men are?

Not really, right?

Why? Because these are the names of the other ten spies that Moses sent to explore the land of Canaan. We don’t remember their names because they didn’t show faith. They weren’t brave. They gave Moses a lying report. These ten spies said that Israel couldn’t win the Promised Land. These spies compared Israelites to grasshoppers and said the Canaanites were giants. These men were afraid when they saw the strong and tall walls around the Canaanite cities.

Caleb was older than Joshua, so he speaks first. Caleb is filled with faith. He reports that Israel can win the Promised Land. Caleb wasn’t afraid to stand for what he knew was right. He wasn’t afraid when the other ten spies were against him. He wasn’t afraid when the Israelites wanted to kill him for speaking the truth (Numbers 14:10).

`What do you do when most people don’t agree with you? Do you go along with them? Or do you say the truth?`