---
title:  Give Me This Hill Country
date:  17/11/2025
---

`How did Caleb and Joshua show their faith? What does it mean to follow the Lord fully? Read Joshua 14:6–14; Numbers 14:24; Numbers 32:12; Deuteronomy 1:36; and Luke 6:45 for the answers.`

Caleb remembered the promise the Lord gave him: he would enter the Promised Land (Numbers 14:24). Forty years later, Caleb talks about his report on the land all those years ago. Caleb gave Moses a true report. Caleb said, “ ‘It was in my heart,’ ” about the land (Joshua 14:7, NLV). Caleb believed Israel could win the land with God’s help.

The report of the other ten spies filled the Israelites with fear. But Caleb trusted in the promises of God. Caleb talks about the ten spies who went with him to Canaan: “ ‘My brothers who went up with me made the heart of the people weak with fear. But I followed the Lord my God with all my heart’ ” (Joshua 14:8, NLV). As we see from this verse, Caleb gave his whole heart to the Lord.

Almost the same words, “with all my heart,” are said two more times (Joshua 14:9, 14, NLV). The Bible says these words to show us that Caleb was a man of faith. That’s why the Lord said, “ ‘My servant Caleb has a different spirit. He follows me completely’ ” (Numbers 14:24, ICB). Caleb’s spirit made him different from the other ten spies. Now, Caleb was 85 years old. He continued to be an example of what the Lord can do with people who give their hearts fully to Him.

God promised to give land to each of the 12 family groups in Israel’s land. Caleb understood that everything depended on faith. If the Israelites had a lot of faith to fight for the land, then the Lord would help them win. So, the more faith they had, the more land God gave them. We must act on our faith in God’s promises. That’s why Caleb says to Joshua, “ ‘So give me the hill country that the Lord promised me that day long ago. At that time you heard that the strong Anakites lived there and the cities were very big and well protected. But now, maybe the Lord will be with me, and I will take that land just as the Lord said” (Joshua 14:12, ERV). The word “maybe” can mean fear and doubt. But it often means hope that something good will happen (Genesis 16:2; Numbers 22:6, 11; Numbers 23:3).

`What “small” things can keep us from following God?`