---
title:  The Power Of Example
date:  18/11/2025
---

`Read the story in Joshua 15:16–19. (Also read Judges 1:13 and Judges 3:7–11.) What do these verses teach us about the power of example? How are the younger Israelites copying Caleb’s spirit of courage and faith?`

In this story, Caleb offers his daughter, Achsah, in marriage to the man who wins the land of Debir in battle. Othniel fights and wins the city. So, Caleb gives Achsah to Othniel to be his wife. This story is important. It shows Caleb’s courage and faith. Caleb is ready and willing to do new things for the Lord.

This story also shows that the younger Israelites followed the example of Caleb and Joshua. As the older Israelites finish their work on earth for God, the younger Israelites are ready to continue God’s work.

Achsah shows the same faith and courage that her father showed. Achsah continues to follow Caleb’s example. She believes in God’s promise to help Israel win the land.

The land is the Lord’s gift to Israel. But Israel must fight to win the land. The people must show faith and courage in God’s promises to give the land to them in battle. Achsah is a symbol of the Jewish mothers later on who come to Jesus. These women have faith. Jesus’ followers try to send them away. But these women will not leave until Jesus blesses them and their families.

`Read Luke 18:1–5. What lesson do these verses teach us?`

`We must help young people get ready to serve God when our work for Him is done. God trusts us with this special work. Think about what we must do to help them get ready. What can we do to train today’s youth to be tomorrow’s leaders? How important is our example to the success of this work?`