---
title:  A Hero With No Pride In His Heart
date:  19/11/2025
---

God promises to give Caleb and Joshua land. Caleb gets his land before Joshua does. Joshua gets his land after everyone else in Israel gets theirs. First, Joshua gives land to the 12 family groups of Israel. Now the time finally comes for the Israelites to give Joshua his land.

`Why does Joshua get his land last? What does that information tell us? Read Joshua 19:49–51 for the answer.`

Joshua gets a city named Timnath-serah. This name is made from two words. The first word, “Timnath” comes from a word that means a “part” or “territory.” The second word comes from the Hebrew word “seracḥ.” “Seracḥ” means something leftover. So, the name of Joshua’s city can be written as “the leftover part of the territory.”

What does this name tell us about Joshua? Joshua waits until all of the Israelites get their land. Then Joshua ­chooses for himself. Joshua doesn’t choose one of the territories that is filled with cities. Joshua doesn’t choose a rich or beautiful city. He chooses a city that may be ruined. So, he will need to rebuild it.

Also, Timnath-serah was located near Shiloh, where God’s holy tent is. So, Joshua’s choice shows us where his heart is. He wants to be near God. Joshua could have asked for or chosen a better piece of land. But Joshua has no pride in his heart. He chooses to live a simple life. He knows what is important. His choice helps us remember King David’s words:

“I ask only one thing from the Lord.\
This is what I want:\
Let me live in the Lord’s house\
all my life.\
Let me see the Lord’s beauty.\
Let me look around in his Temple” (Psalm 27:4, ICB).

`What lessons can you learn from Joshua’s spirit? How can you have a heart empty of all pride?`