---
title:  The Lives Of Bible Heroes
date:  20/11/2025
---

`The lives of Bible heroes can help us grow strong in faith. Of course, Jesus is the best example. How does thinking about the life of Jesus and His teachings change us? Read Hebrews 12:1, 2 and 2 Corinthians 3:18 for the answer.`

Ellen G. White talks about what happens to us when we think about the love of Jesus: “When we look at Jesus, we will understand God better. God’s love changes us. When we look at Him, we will become good. Love for other people will fill our hearts. Our thoughts and feelings will become the same as God’s thoughts and feelings. We will become like Him in our hearts. When we become more like God in our hearts, we will know Him more and more. We will fellowship with heaven more. God will give us more knowledge and wisdom.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 355, adapted.

`Read Romans 12:1, 2. What two powers are fighting against each other for our attention? How can we be sure to choose the right side?`

In Romans 12, Paul talks about two powers that fight against each other. On the one hand, this life, with all its false ideas and fun, tries to force us to accept its ideas and habits. These things are outside us at first. But they try to change us on the inside.

On the other hand, the Holy Spirit changes us from the inside. Think of the way a caterpillar becomes a beautiful butterfly. The change happens from the inside first. The Holy Spirit works to change us in the same way. He starts with our hearts. But if we want this change to happen, we need to give our lives to God first. We must ask Him to continue to do the good work in us that He already started (Philippians 1:6). In the end, we must make a choice, each moment, to give God’s Spirit full control over our lives.