---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  21/11/2025
---

“Caleb’s faith now was the same as when he gave his report forty years ago. Caleb’s report didn’t agree with the evil report of the ten spies. Caleb believed God’s promise. God promised to give Israel the land of Canaan. So, Caleb trusted in the Lord and followed Him fully. Caleb wandered for 40 years in the desert with Israel. Caleb suffered with Israel. But Caleb didn’t complain. Caleb praised God for showing Him mercy. God kept him alive in the desert when almost all the other Israelites died. Israel suffered hard times, danger, and disease during their time in the desert. But Caleb lived many more years. The Lord spared Caleb’s life during the time Israel fought wars to win the land of Canaan. Now, at almost 80 years old, Caleb continued to be healthy and strong. Caleb didn’t ask for land that Israel already won in war. Caleb asked for the land that the ten spies said no one could win. With God’s help, Caleb would remove this land from the giants who caused Israel to lose faith. Caleb didn’t fight for his honor or fame. This brave old warrior wanted to give the Israelites an example that honored God. Caleb wanted to encourage Israel to fight to win the land that their fathers said no one could win.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 512, 513, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`How much courage does it take to speak the truth when other people won’t do it? Why is it so hard to be brave? How much courage do you need to talk about your faith? How can we avoid being rude and unkind when we stand for what we believe is right?`

`Share in your class some examples of faith from your church or community that changed your life for the better. How did their stories help make you more like God in your heart?`

`Think about the power that the media or TV has in our life. How can we use media for good? At the same time, what are its dangers? How do we keep media and TV from hurting our lives?`

`How is Joshua an example to you of a good leader?`