---
title:  The Big War Between Good and Evil
date:   31/03/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ezekiel 28:1, 2, 11–17; Genesis 3:1–7; Revelation 12:1–17; Romans 8:31–39. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Then the dragon [Satan] was very angry at the woman [God’s church]. It went away to make war against all her other children. Her children are those [people] who obey God’s commands and have the truth that Jesus taught” (Revelation 12:17, ERV).

The Bible teaches us that there is a big war going on between God and Satan. We can understand everything happening on this earth better when we understand what this war is all about. We will understand better why there is sin and suffering and death. We will understand why some countries rule over the earth and other countries lose power. We will understand the reasons why we must share the Good News about Jesus with everyone. We will also understand the things that will happen before Jesus comes back.

This week we will look at the “place” where the war started first. It started in the heart of a perfect angel named Lucifer. Lucifer brought his war against God to this earth when he led Adam and Eve to sin. This war has been going on ever since. Each of us is a part of this war.

There is good news. Someday Jesus will win the war. But there is even better news. Everyone can experience Jesus’ victory now. He won the fight against sin for us on the cross. His victory gives us the power to live lives of faith and obedience while we wait for Him to come back. 