---
title:  A Perfect Angels Sins
date:   01/04/2018
---

Yesterday, we said the Bible teaches us about the big war going on between good and evil. This teaching leads us to ask several important questions about the war. One of the most important questions is: How did this war get started? This question is important because we know that God is loving and He made everything there is. It does not make sense that our loving God would make evil, fighting, and suffering when He made everything good and perfect in the beginning. So, the war between good and evil must have started after God made everything. Also, the war must be separate from everything God made. But the war is real. The war is here on earth. Everyone on earth is part of the war.

`Read Ezekiel 28:1, 2, 11–17 and Isaiah 14:12–14. What do these verses teach us about Lucifer’s sin and how evil started in heaven?`

Lucifer had been a beautiful angel. He lived in heaven. God made Lucifer perfect. So, how could sin start in Lucifer? After all, Lucifer lived in a perfect place and was made perfect, right? The answer is: we do not know why sin started in someone who was made perfect. Sin is a mystery. Maybe that is why the Bible talks about the “secret power of sin” (2 Thessalonians 2:7, NIrV) because we cannot know the true reasons for why sin started.

God made us free to choose. Sin started when Lucifer chose evil. But there is no excuse for Lucifer’s sin. Here is what Ellen G. White has to say about how sin started: “It is impossible for us to explain the reason why sin started. We can give no reason for why there is sin. . . . Sin is an unwelcome guest. Sin is a mystery. We cannot explain sin. To give an excuse for sin is the same as defending sin. But what if an excuse could be found for sin and why it is here? Then sin would stop being sin.”—The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], pages 492, 493, adapted.

Put the word “evil” in the place of the word “sin” in the quotation we read and read it again. You will see that everything we said about sin also can be said about evil.

`God made us free to choose. Think about choices you made and the things that happened in your life because of your choices. What should those experiences tell you about why we need to pray carefully about the choices we make?`
