---
title:  Knowing the Truth is Not Enough
date:   02/04/2018
---

We cannot explain why evil started. There is no excuse for evil. But the Bible tells us that evil started in Lucifer’s heart in heaven. At the same time, the Bible does not tell us much more about how evil started in heaven. (We can read more about this idea in the writings of Ellen G. White. See her chapter “The Origin [start] of Evil” in The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan]). But the Bible is clear about how evil started on earth (read The Great Controversy, pages 492, 493).

`Read Genesis 3:1–7. What happened here? What were Adam and Eve guilty of doing?`

The saddest part about what happened here is that Eve knew the words of warning that God said to her and Adam. Eve even says God’s words to the snake: “ ‘God told us, “You must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden. You must not even touch that tree, or you will die” ’ ” (Genesis 3:3, ERV). The Bible does not say anything about God telling Adam and Eve not to touch the fruit. Anyway, the Bible shows us that Eve knew that eating the fruit would cause her to die.

But the snake lied to Eve. “The snake [Satan] said to the woman, ‘You will not die’ ” (Genesis 3:4, ERV).

Satan was very sneaky at first. But what happened when Satan got Eve’s attention and saw that she was not turning away from him? Then Satan challenged the Lord’s word to her. The sad thing is that Eve knew the truth. She could not say, “I did not know. I did not know any better!”

She knew.

But Eve sinned anyway. Adam sinned too. They were both perfect. That should tell us something important. Our knowing the truth is not enough to save us. True, we need to know the Bible. But we also need to do what the Bible says.

`God said one thing. Satan said another. Adam and Eve knew the truth. But they chose to believe Satan. How can we avoid making this same mistake?`
