---
title:  War in Heaven and on Earth
date:   03/04/2018
---

We talk about a big war between good and evil that started in heaven. But that war is also happening here, right now, on this earth. We need only to look at Bible history to see how real this war is. Everything that happens in the Bible shows us that this war is real. That includes everything from the sin of Adam and Eve in Eden to the last things that happen before Jesus comes back. We live on this earth where this war is being fought right now. The Bible explains what is going on in this war and tells us the reasons for it. Most important, the Bible tells us how this war will end.  

`Read Revelation 12:1–17. What wars are shown in these verses? Where do they happen?`

In Revelation 12:1–17, we see a war in heaven and several wars happening on earth. The first fight is between the dragon (Satan; read Revelation 12:7–9) and Michael. Michael is another name for Jesus. (In Hebrew, Michael means “Who is the same as God?”) Lucifer became known as Satan. The name Satan means “enemy,” or “an unfriendly person” or “someone who fights against another person.” 

The big war between good and evil is not about gods who are fighting each other. No, the war is about an angel—Lucifer—who fights against Jesus, the One who made him. Lucifer also shows his attack on God by attacking the people on earth and everything God made. 

Satan failed in his attack on Jesus in heaven. So, Satan went after Jesus on earth after Jesus was born in a human body (Revelation 12:4). But Satan failed in his attack against Jesus. Then Satan failed again in his attack against Jesus in the wilderness. Satan also failed in his attack against Jesus at the cross. So, what did Satan do after he lost all these fights against Jesus? Satan went to war against Jesus’ followers. This war has been going on ever since the Christian church got started (Revelation 12:6, 14–16). This war will continue to grow and get worse until the end of time (Revelation 12:17). Then Satan will fail again when Jesus defeats him at the Second Coming. 

`Read Revelation 12:10–12. What do we find in these verses to give us hope while this war between good and evil is being fought all around us?`