---
title:  Jesus is with Us Until the Very End
date:   04/04/2018
---

The book of Revelation warns God’s people ahead of time about Satan’s attacks on the church. Satan’s attacks would happen during most of the church’s history.

“The attacks against Christians started with the Roman ruler Nero, around the time Paul was put to death. The attacks continued for many hundreds of years. Christians were blamed for awful crimes they never even did. People blamed Christians for the earthquakes, food shortages, and the diseases on earth. People everywhere hated Christians. Some people were ready to hurt Christians in exchange for money, power, or other things in this life. Christians were accused of being at war against the leaders of Rome. Christians were accused of attacking religion. People accused Christians of being the same as diseases or insects that destroyed plants. Many Christians were thrown to wild  animals. Some Christians were burned alive in the big theaters in Rome.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 40, adapted.

The Bible says that the “woman [God’s true church]” ran into the wilderness to escape these attacks (Revelation 12:6). The Bible tells us that the woman had wings the same as an eagle. These wings help us make a picture in our minds of the woman flying away to a place where she could find help. God took care of the woman while she was in the wilderness. The snake [Satan] could not get to her (Revelation 12:14). God always protects His church during big attacks. God will protect it again in the last days.

`Jesus made this promise to His people living in the last days: “ ‘I am always with you, to the very end’ ” (Matthew 28:20, NIrV). What a wonderful promise! But does it mean that we will never need to suffer or die for our faith? Of course not. We know that many of Jesus’ followers were put to death. So, what does this promise really mean? (Read also Romans 8:31–39 and Matthew 10:28 for hints.)`

Nothing can separate us from God’s love. Not attacks. Not food shortages. Not even death. Jesus is always with us. But God never promised us that we would never suffer, feel pain, or even death. Instead, Jesus’ promise to us in Matthew 28:20 means God is with us in everything that happens. We also have the hope of everlasting life with Him in the new heavens and the new earth (2 Timothy 4:8).
