---
title:  The Law and the Good News
date:   05/04/2018
---

Have you ever stopped to think about the way our name announces to other people what we believe? Look at it and see: Seventh-day Adventist. The “Seventh-day” part reminds people about the seventh-day Sabbath. Do you know what is so wonderful about that? Our belief in the Sabbath commandment also shows our belief in all ten of God’s commandments. The “Adventist” part of our name shows our belief in the Second Coming of Jesus. So, our name Seventh-day Adventist shows two very important parts of the truth needed for this time: (1) the law and (2) the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin.

**Read Jeremiah 44:23; Romans 3:20–26; and Romans 7:7. How do these verses show the close connection between the law and the Good News that Jesus saves us from our sins?**

`Jeremiah 44:23`

`Romans 3:20–26`

`Romans 7:7`

We have sinned by breaking God’s law. The Good News is that we can be forgiven for our sins. We are saved by our faith in Jesus and His death for us on the cross. Also, God gives us the power to obey the same law we broke. God gives us the power to obey that law fully. These special gifts—(1) being saved by faith, (2) Jesus’ death on the cross, and (3) the power to obey—clearly show how very different God’s people are from other people on earth.

So, it should not be a surprise to us that the Bible shows God’s people in the last days of earth’s history as being different from everyone else on earth.

`Read Revelation 14:12. How does this verse show the connection between the law and the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin?`

As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe in obeying God’s law. We see obedience to the law as something that grows stronger because we love God. How can we show other people that obeying the law does not mean trying to earn the gift of everlasting life by our good actions?
