---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   06/04/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “There was a time when every angel and person that God made loved God with a loyal heart. There was perfect happiness and peace everywhere because of this loyalty and love for God. The angels in heaven loved to do everything God wanted. They loved to show God’s glory in their lives and to praise Him. Their love for God was the most important thing in their lives. Their love for each other was deep and unselfish. Nothing evil poisoned their peace. Then a change took place. Lucifer put to bad use the freedom that God gave to everyone He made. Sin started in Lucifer. God honored Lucifer above all the other angels. Only Jesus was honored more in heaven than Lucifer.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs [Bible fathers] and Prophets [special messengers from God], page 35, adapted.

Notice Ellen White’s words: “ . . . loved God with a loyal heart.” This wording is very powerful and full of meaning. It teaches us that love leads us to be loyal to God and to live a life of faith. A person who is married will show that same love and loyalty to the one he or she loves. The angels in heaven loved God and each other that way. That is how we should love God and each other.  

**Discussion questions**

`1.	What proof does the Bible give us that Satan is real? What proof does the Bible give us about Satan’s part in the big war between good and evil? How can we help people understand that Satan is a real person and not just a word-picture for evil in the human heart?`

`2.	God blessed Seventh-day Adventists with much knowledge about the Bible. But why is knowing the truth not enough to save us? What more do we need?`    

`3.	How have you experienced Jesus’ love and power over sin in your life? How can these experiences help you in the times of trouble ahead?`

`4.	In class, talk more about the powerful words that Ellen G. White wrote: “. . . loved God with a loyal heart.” How does this idea help us understand better the close connection between the law and the Good News? How does this idea show us the truth that to love we first must be free to choose to love? What are ways we can show God’s love to other people?`  
