---
title:  In Jesus Christ
date:   26/11/2017
---

`)“Those who belong to Christ will not suffer the punishment of sin” (Romans 8:1, NLV). What does “not suffer the punishment of sin” mean?`

“Those who belong to Christ” is wording that appears often in Paul’s writings. The people who “belong” to Jesus accept Him as their Savior. They trust Him fully. They decide to make Jesus’ way of life their own way of life. They are “married” to Jesus.

Paul shows how different the wording “those who belong to Christ” is from the experience in Romans 7. In Romans 7, Paul describes the person who is a slave to sin. This person is convinced by the Spirit to do the right thing. But this person has not fully given his life to Jesus. This person is controlled by evil desires. This person is judged guilty (Romans 7:11, 13, 24). He serves the “law of sin” (Romans 7:23, NLV). His life is awful (Romans 7:24).

But then this person gives his life to Jesus. A change in this person’s life takes place right away. Now this person is innocent in God’s eyes. God views this person as if he never sinned. Jesus’ holy life covers this person. He is no longer guilty. Is he no longer guilty because he is not a sinner anymore? Or is he all of the sudden worthy of everlasting life? None of those ideas is true! Instead, Jesus’ perfect life record takes the place of this person’s record of sin. So, he is no longer guilty.

`Read Romans 8:2. As Paul’s words show us in this verse, what frees a person from being a slave to sin?`

?The “law of the Spirit” (NIrV) means Jesus’ plan for saving humans. This law is very different from “the law of sin.” Romans 7 describes this law as sin’s power to rule our lives. Sin’s power “brings death” (Romans 8:2, NIrV) to everyone who serves sin. But Jesus’ law brings life and freedom.

“Every person who refuses to give himself to God is controlled by another power. This person is not in control of his life. . . . He thinks he is doing what he wants. But he obeys the wishes of the prince of darkness. Jesus came to break our ‘chains’ of slavery to sin.”—Ellen G. White, *The Desire of Ages*, page 466, adapted.

`Are you a slave to sin? Or are you free in Jesus? How can you tell?`
