---
title:  What The Law Could Not Do
date:   27/11/2017
---

The law has power to point to our need to be saved. But the law cannot do for us the thing we need most. By the word “law,” we mean (1) the Ten Commandments,  also named the moral law, and (2) the ceremonial law. The ceremonial law explained the use of animals in the Jewish worship plan. God gave Moses this plan to give to His people. But the ceremonial law and the moral law could not save us from the guilt and punishment of death that sin brings. For that, we need Jesus.

`Read Romans 8:3, 4. As Paul shows in these verses, what did Jesus do that the law could not do?`

God gave us a way to be healed from sin. God sent us “His own Son. [Jesus] came to earth in a body of flesh which could be tempted [led] to sin as we in our bodies can be. . . . [Jesus] took away the power sin had over us” (Romans 8:3, NLV). Now we can do everything the law asks us to do. We could not do anything the law asked when we were “living by the Law” (Romans 6:14, NLV). But now we can obey the law “because of God’s loving-favor” (NLV). God gives this gift to us because of “what Christ Jesus has done” (Romans 8:2, NLV).

We must remember that doing everything the law asks does not mean we can save ourselves by obeying the law. We cannot be saved by our own works. Not ever. But what Paul means in Romans 8:2 is that God gives us power to live a life of obedience. We have “nailed our sinful [full of sin] old selves on the cross” (Galatians 5:24). Now our lives show Jesus to everyone.

To “live” (NIrV) or “walk” (NKJV) in Romans 8:4 is a word picture. This word picture was used in Paul’s day to mean “how to act in the right way.” The wording “our sinful old selves” (NLV) is a word picture for the person who has not been made new by Jesus. When we “walk” after “what our sinful old selves tell us to do,” we are controlled by selfish desires. But when we live the way the Holy Spirit wants us to live, we do everything the law asks us to do. We can obey the law only with the Holy Spirit’s help. Only in Jesus can we find freedom to do everything the law asks us to do. Without Jesus, we cannot obey the law. The person who is a slave to sin finds it impossible to do the good he or she wants to do (read Romans 7:15, 18).
