---
title:  Controlled By Sin Or Controlled By The Spirit
date:   28/11/2017
---

“Those who let their sinful [full of sin] old selves tell them what to do live under that power of their sinful old selves. But those who let the Holy Spirit tell them what to do are under His power” (Romans 8:5, NLV). “The thoughts of a person ruled by sin bring death. But the mind ruled by the Spirit brings life and peace” (Romans 8:6, NIrV).

`Think about the truth that these verses teach us. What do they say to you about how you should live your life?`

“Under,” in Romans 8:5, comes from the Greek word *kata*. In this verse, it means “agreeing with.” “Thoughts,” in Romans 8:6, means “to set [put] the mind on.” One group whom Paul describes puts their minds on giving in to their natural desires. The other group puts their minds on letting the Spirit lead them. They choose to follow the Spirit’s wish-es. The two groups live and act differently. Why? Because the mind decides what we will do.

`Paul shows in Romans 8:7, 8 that the mind “ruled by the power of sin” (Romans 8:7, NIrV) is not able to do something. What is it that this mind cannot do?`

When we give in to the desires of the sinful [full of sin] old self, we turn against God. People who make this choice will not be interested in doing things that make God happy. These people even may be openly breaking God’s law.

What happens when we are not connected to Jesus? Then it is impossible to obey God’s law. Paul goes back to this idea often: without Jesus, we cannot obey the law. Paul wanted to show the Jews that they needed more than the *Torah* [law] to save them. Their lives showed they were guilty of doing the same sins that the Gentiles did (Romans 2). Gentiles were non-Jews. Both Gentiles and Jewish believers alike needed the Messiah. The Messiah was the One God chose to save His people from sin. Without the Messiah, God’s people would be sin’s slaves. They would not be able to escape from sin’s power.

Paul’s teaching about the Messiah was Paul’s message to the Jews who could not understand why the old plan of being saved was no longer enough. Paul told the Jews that  everything they had done was good. But they also needed the Messiah, who had now come.
