---
title:  Christ In You
date:   29/11/2017
---

Paul talks some more about the choices that everyone must make: (1) to live by God’s Spirit or (2) to give in to sin. One choice leads to everlasting life. The other choice leads to death. We must choose to live by one power or the other. There is no other choice. As Jesus said, “ ‘Anyone who is not with me is against me. Anyone who does not gather sheep with me scatters them’ ” (Matthew 12:30, NIrV). The truth does not get much plainer than that.

`Read Romans 8:9–14. As these verses show, what does God promise to those who give themselves fully to Jesus?`

Paul shows how different the life “ruled by the power of sin” (Romans 8:9, NIrV) is from the life ruled by the “Spirit of Christ [Jesus]” (NIrV). The Spirit of Jesus is the Holy Spirit. Maybe Paul names the Holy Spirit the Spirit of Jesus to point out that the Holy Spirit shows us Jesus. Jesus lives in us by the Holy Spirit’s power (Romans 8:9, 10).

In Romans 8:9–14, Paul goes back to a word picture he used in Romans 6:1–11. That word picture is baptism. Here, Paul uses baptism to show us how our “sinful [full of sin] old selves” (Romans 8:9, NLV) are destroyed.  “Our old life, our old sinful [full of sin] self, was nailed to the cross with Christ” (Romans 6:6, NLV). Baptism shows we are not only covered in a grave of water. But we come up out from the “grave of water” to a new life in Jesus. This new life means the old self is put to death. We need to make the choice everyday and minute by minute to put the old self to death. God does not destroy our freedom. We can sin even after our old lives are destroyed. That is the reason why Paul warned the believers in the Colossian church: “Remove from your life all evil desires” (Colossians 3:5, NIrV).

There will continue to be a fight against sin after we belong to Jesus. But the difference is that the Holy Spirit now lives in us. The Spirit gives us power over sin. God freed us by a miracle. God freed us from the evil slave master named sin. So, we never need to serve sin again.

`The Spirit of God raised Jesus from the dead. He is the same Spirit who will live in us if we let Him. What stops us from trusting in this power?`
