---
title:  God Adopts Us As His Children
date:   30/11/2017
---

Read Romans 8:15. In this verse, how does Paul describe our new connection to Jesus? What hope do we find in this promise? How do we make this promise real in our lives?

Paul describes our new connection to Jesus as freedom from fear. But a slave is not free. A slave lives in fear that never ends. He fears his master. A slave will get little to nothing from his master for his long years of service.

But people who accept Jesus have hope. They choose to serve Jesus without fear. The Bible tells us “perfect love puts fear out of our hearts” (1 John 4:18, NLV). God adopts these believers as His children. God gives His new children many riches and gifts that many cannot buy.

“We become slaves to sin when we try to save ourselves by our good behavior. We become slaves when we try in our own power to do everything that the law asks. There is hope for us only when we accept God’s agreement with Abraham. This agreement is a contract of grace. [Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin.] We enter this contract of grace by faith in Jesus.”—Ellen G. White Comments [Thoughts], *The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation]*, volume 6, page 1077, adapted.

`Read Romans 8:16. As this verse shows, what helps us to know for sure that God accepts us as His children?`

The Holy Spirit tells us that God accepts us. Remember, it is not safe to trust only in feeling. But people who do everything God tells them to do will hear a voice in their hearts. This voice tells them that God accepts them as His  children.

Romans 8:17 tells us that we are God’s children. God shall give us His wonderful riches and gifts because He has adopted us. We do not earn these gifts. Instead, God gives us these gifts because we have a new connection with Him. We stand without guilt before Him. Then God gives us His gifts by grace. He gives us His gift because Jesus died for us.

`What changes must you make in your life to have a closer connection or walk with Jesus?`
