---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   01/12/2017
---

“God’s plan to save us does not mean we will live lives without suffering and trouble while we wait for Jesus to come back to this earth. Instead, God’s plan asks us to follow Jesus in the same path that Jesus walked. Jesus gave up the desire to put Himself first before other people and God. We must follow Jesus’ example. Jesus suffered blame for doing right. . . . When we suffer this same pain, then we show to other people that Jesus lives within us. We must suffer as Jesus suffered. Jesus uses our suffering to teach us precious lessons. Jesus uses our suffering to help make us ready to share in the wonderful life He has for us in heaven.”—Ellen G. White, *Thoughts From the Mount of Blessings* [God’s Favor], pages 30, 31, adapted.

“The plan God made to save us from sin is a chain that God let down from His throne. This “chain” is long enough to reach down to the bottom of the pit where we have sunk. Jesus can lift the worst sinners out of the pit of evil they have fallen into. Jesus can put these sinners where they can be accepted as the children of God. Then God will give His new children the riches that He gives to Jesus. These riches will never fade away.” —Ellen G. White, *Testimonies [Messages] for the Church*, volume 7, page 229, adapted.

“Jesus paid the price for our sin. No one needs to be Satan’s slave. Christ stands before us as our Helper. He has all the power needed to save us.”—Ellen G. White, *Selected Messages*, book 1, page 309, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**

`1. How can we make God's promises of victory real in our own lives? God offers us many gifts in Jesus. So, why do we continue to fail to become what we really were meant to be in God?`

`2. What are the ways, every day, in which you can "think about what the Spirit wants” (Romans 8:5, NIrV)? What does this verse mean? What does the Spirit want? What do you watch, read, or think about? How might these things make it hard to think about the things that the Spirit wants you to do?`

`3. Think more about this idea that we are on one side or the other in the war between good and evil. What does this important truth tell us? How should this truth change the way we live and the choices we make, even in the "little" things in life?`
