---
title:  God’s Work As Judge
date:  17/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matthew 25:31–46; Daniel 7:9–14; 1 Corinthians 6:2, 3; 2 Peter 2:4–6; Malachi 4:1.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “We must all stand in front of Christ to be judged. Each one of us will be judged for what we do while in our bodies. We’ll be judged for the good things and the bad things. Then each of us will receive [get paid for] what we are supposed [should] to get” (2 Corinthians 5:10, NIrV).

THE BIBLE tells us that God will judge the dead and the living. Sometimes things in life are not fair. But the Bible tells us that God will make everything right.

The Bible says that God has “perfect knowledge” (Job 37:16, NIrV). He “knows everything” (1 John 3:20, ERV). So, God knows everything we do, including the things we do in secret (Ecclesiastes 12:14; Jeremiah 17:10). We can hide things from people. But we can’t hide anything from God.

What does God’s knowledge about everything show us? God doesn’t need to judge us to learn anything about us that He doesn’t know already. So, why does God judge us then? Because God wants to show everyone in heaven and on earth that His final decisions are fair.

This week, we study God’s work as Judge. This work has three parts: (1) God’s work before the Second Coming, (2) His work during the 1,000 years in heaven, and (3) His punishment of the evil dead, who will wake up and die the second death. In the end, God will show that His people are innocent of the sins that Satan accused them of doing.