---
title:  God’s Final Work As Judge 
date:  18/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Some people think God’s work is all about punishment. Punishment only is part of God’s work as Judge. His work also includes the wonderful announcement that His people aren’t guilty. Daniel talks about this part of God’s work as Judge: “He decided in favor of his holy people” (Daniel 7:22, NIrV). So, God’s work as Judge includes punishing evil people and rewarding people who obey Him. We see this important rule in Solomon’s prayer to God: “ ‘Please listen from heaven and judge them. If they are guilty, please show us that they are guilty. And if they are innocent, please show us that they are not guilty’ ” (1 Kings 8:32, ERV).

`Read Jesus’ words in Matthew 25:31–46 and John 5:21–29. How does Jesus show us that God’s final work as Judge includes both punishment and reward?`

Some Bible thinkers say that the words “ ‘is not judged’ ” (John 3:18, NASB) and “ ‘will not be judged’ ” (John 5:24, NIV) show that God’s people aren’t judged at all. But these words show that God’s followers aren’t punished. So, what Jesus really is saying is that God’s people “ ‘are not judged guilty’ ” (John 3:18, ERV).

What we do in this life shows our decision to accept or reject everlasting life. God’s holy people have His promise. God will announce that His people are innocent when He does His work as Judge. People who don’t accept Jesus are guilty. Jesus talks about this time (Matthew 25:31–46). He says that there will be two groups of people: goats (evil people) and sheep (holy people).

When we think about God’s work as Judge, we should always remember that God saves us by His mercy (Isaiah 55:1; Ephesians 2:8–10). Our faith in God’s mercy makes us holy and innocent (Genesis 15:6; Romans 5:1). We are judged by our behavior (Ecclesiastes 12:14; Matthew 25:31–46; Revelation 20:11–13). We are judged by the Ten Commandments (Ecclesiastes 12:13, 14; James 1:25; James 2:8–17). Our good behavior shows that our experience with Jesus is real. God will look at our behavior in His work as Judge.

Remember, God doesn’t force people to be saved or lost. We are responsible to keep our choice to be saved. God’s work as Judge is not the time when He accepts or rejects us. His work as Judge shows our final choice that we made to accept Him or reject Him.