---
title:  God’s Careful Search 
date:  19/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Before Jesus comes back, God will do part of His work as Judge. This work is known as the pre-Advent judgment. The word “pre” means before. The word “Advent” means the Second Coming. The word “judgment” is the time when God will judge His people. So, the time known as the “pre-Advent judgment” is the time when God will judge His people before Jesus’ Second Coming. Several books in the Bible talk about the pre-Advent judgment.

Read about the pre-Advent judgment in Daniel 7:9–14; Matthew 22:1–14; Revelation 11:1, 18, 19; and Revelation 14:6, 7. What do these verses teach us about the pre-Advent judgment that is happening right now in the courts in heaven? Why is this judgment so important?

The pre-Advent judgment is a time when God does a careful search. He carefully searches His people’s lives, their thoughts, hearts, and behavior. The Bible teaches us three important ideas about the pre-Advent judgment:

(1) During this time, all the dead stay asleep in their graves until Jesus wakes them up. The dead include both holy people and evil people. Jesus will wake up His holy people at the Second Coming. But evil people will stay in their graves for 1,000 more years.

(2) God’s careful search of His people’s lives is an important part of the Bible teaching that God will judge all humans (2 Corinthians 5:10; Revelation 20:11–15).

(3) God will reward His holy people at the first resurrection. As we already saw, the first resurrection is the time when Jesus wakes up His loyal followers at the Second Coming. The second resurrection will happen after the saved people stay in heaven with God for 1,000 years. Then Jesus brings His people back to earth and wakes up the evil dead. At that time, the lost will get their punishment: the second death (John 5:28, 29; Revelation 20:4–6, 12–15). No one who dies the second death will ever live again.

So, if every person will be judged, he or she will be judged before Jesus wakes them from the dead. Then each person will get his or her final reward, either life or death.

God is in heaven doing a careful search of our lives. How should this knowledge change how we live on earth?