---
title:  1,000 Years In Heaven 
date:  20/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible tells us about three things that will happen after the Second Coming. (1) Jesus will wake up His people from the dead. Then these people along with God’s people who are alive on the earth will “meet the Lord in the air” (1 Thessalonians 4:16, 17, ERV). (2) Jesus will take His people to heaven for 1,000 years. They will live there in the homes that Jesus made for them (John 14:1–3). God’s people will sit on thrones in heaven and be leaders with Jesus for 1,000 years. During this time, the earth is empty and ruined (Jeremiah 4:23). (3) After 1,000 years, Jesus will bring the New Jerusalem to this earth. The Holy City will become the new home of God’s people (Revelation 21:1–3). God’s people will live on the earth forever.

`Read 1 Corinthians 6:2, 3 and Revelation 20:4–6, 11–13 about God’s work as Judge during the 1,000 years in heaven. Why do God’s people help God do His work as Judge in heaven during the 1,000 years?`

God’s work as Judge during the 1,000 years will show four Bible truths: (1) God is fair in all His decisions. (2) God gives everyone the correct reward. (3) God’s punishments are fair. And (4) God shows that saved humans can be trusted to live in heaven. They won’t sin again. In God’s careful search of His people before the Second Coming, only the ones who live in heaven help God (Daniel 7:9, 10) in His work as Judge. But during the 1,000 years, God’s saved people also will help God in His work. They will help God judge the evil angels and the evil dead (1 Corinthians 6:3; Jude 1:6; Revelation 20:4–6).

The pre-Advent judgment started in 1844. As we already learned, the pre-Advent judgment is the time when God will do a careful search of His people’s hearts and lives before the Second Coming (Daniel 7:9, 10). God’s work as Judge during the 1,000 years will start after God takes His people to heaven. God’s children will sit on thrones and will help God judge the evil dead. God will open the books in heaven. “The dead were judged by what they had done. The things they had done were written in the books” (Revelation 20:12, NIrV; read also Revelation 20:4). God’s people will see that God is fair in all His decisions. God rewards humans for their choices. He also explains the decisions He made.