---
title:  God’s Final Work As Judge 
date:  21/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

During the Middle Ages in Europe, people thought that God was a mean and nasty Judge. They believed that God enjoyed punishing people. Today, Christians believe that God is a loving Father who will never punish His children. Love without the law will cause people to disobey God. The law without love will cause people to hurt each other. God’s work as Judge shows both His mercy and His fair decisions. Both things come from God’s love.

God’s final work as Judge also is known as the executive judgment. This decision is final because it can’t be changed. God has punished people in a limited way in the past. (1) God threw Satan and his evil angels out of heaven (Revelation 12:7–12). (2) God sent Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden (Genesis 3). (3) God destroyed the earth with the Flood (Genesis 6–8). (4) God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah (Genesis 19; Jude 7). (5) God sent an angel to kill all the sons who were born first in Egypt (Exodus 11; Exodus 12). And (6) Ananias and Sapphira were killed because they lied to the Holy Spirit (Acts 5:1–11). So, we should not be surprised that God will judge the evil dead at the end of human history.

`Read 2 Peter 2:4–6 and 2 Peter 3:10–13. How do these verses help us understand what happens in the executive judgment? As we learned in this lesson, the executive judgment is the name for God’s final work as Judge. How do these verses show us that after God finishes judging, humans will not have another chance to be saved?`

“God is good and very patient. But His love will not stop Him from punishing the sinner who refused to obey His laws. Humans are criminals. They are guilty of breaking God’s holy law. We humans are pardoned only by God’s gift to us. This gift is God’s Son, Jesus. Jesus died for the guilty because God can’t change His law. So, guilty humans shouldn’t think they can tell God what to do.”—Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, volume 12, page 208, adapted.

God did everything possible to save humans from being lost forever. God saved us at a big cost to Himself. Anyone who will be lost made choices that led him or her to a bad end. God’s work that He does to judge the lost ones and punish them shows His love and His mercy.