---
title:  The Second Death 
date:  22/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God guides human history to its final end-time happenings. At the end of the 1,000 years, the evil dead will wake up from their graves. Then they will get their final punishment (Revelation 20:5, 11–15). When God’s final work as Judge is done, nothing else can be added to His decision. The evil ones will confess that God’s decisions are fair. “Everyone in heaven and on earth will understand what happened during the worldwide war between God and Satan. Both loyal people and evil people will announce:

‘ “You are always right [holy] and true [fair] in everything You do. You are King of all nations [people groups]” ’ [Revelation 15:3, NLV]. Satan himself bows down and confesses that God’s punishment against him is fair.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 670, 671, adapted.

`Read these verses that talk about the lake of fire and the second death: Malachi 4:1; Revelation 20:14, 15; and Revelation 21:8. What do these verses teach us?`

Satan, his evil angels, and all the evil people who ever lived on the earth finally will be destroyed. Then heaven and earth will be clean from sin. God’s punishment of evil shows His love for His holy people and for the evil people, too. Evil people will choose to die so that they won’t need to be near a holy God. “Our God is like [the same as] a fire that can destroy us” (Hebrews 12:29, ERV).

“The people who are lost want to run from that holy place. They welcome death so they will be hidden from the face of Jesus who died to save them. Lost people decided their own future by the choices they made. They can’t enter heaven. This punishment is from their own choice. God shows His mercy by giving them what they want.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 543, adapted.

The end of sin and sinners shows us that God’s punishment is fair. We also know that sin had a beginning. So, sin also will have an end. Then God will make heaven and earth new again and perfect. Heaven and earth will be free forever from sin and evil. There is no excuse for sin and evil. The reason for their beginning is a mystery.

Praise God that He is our fair and holy Judge (2 Timothy 4:8)! God will make the fair decision to give everlasting life to His children and death to the lost.