---
title:  Further Thought
date:  23/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Without a Wedding Garment,” pages 307–319, in Christ’s Object Lessons; “Desolation of the Earth,” pages 653–661; “The Controversy Ended,” pages 662–673, in The Great Controversy.

“God will do His final work as Judge. At this time, every lost person will understand how he or she rejected Bible truth. God will show lost sinners a vision of the cross. Every person will see that the cross is very important. The people whose minds were controlled by sin will see this spiritual truth, too. As lost sinners watch the vision of Jesus on the cross, they will understand that they are guilty. They will see that every excuse they made to reject Jesus is a lie. They will see why sin and evil are very awful. Men will see that they made very bad choices. The lost people will fully understand the good side and evil side in the worldwide war between God and Satan. Everyone will see that God is fair. God also is innocent. God did not make evil. God will show that His decisions are holy. His decisions do not cause sin to happen. There was no problem with God’s government. There was no reason for Satan to war against God. In His final work as Judge, God will show us the thoughts and feelings in men’s hearts. Then everyone, both the saved and the lost, will announce, ‘You are always right [holy] and true [fair] in everything You do. You are King of all nations [people groups]’ [Revelation 15:3, NLV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 58, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“If you refuse to give yourself fully to God, you choose death. God is the same as a destroying fire. He destroys sin. If you choose sin, and refuse to separate from it, God must destroy you.”—Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, page 62, adapted. How does this quote help us understand God’s final work as Judge?`

`1,000 years after the Second Coming, God will wake up the lost ones from the dead. Before that time, God’s saved people will help Him judge the lost for 1,000 years. No one will be punished until we have a chance to see that God is fair. How does this help us understand God’s love and His work as Judge?`