---
title:  The Tower Of Babel
date:  23/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 9:18–27; Genesis 10; Genesis 11:1–4; Genesis 11:5–7; Psalm 139:7–12; Genesis 9:1

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “So the name of the city was Babel, because there the Lord mixed up the language of the whole earth. The Lord sent the people everywhere over the whole earth” (Genesis 11:9, ERV).

AFTER THE FLOOD, the Bible talks about the three sons of Noah: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Ham is the father of Canaan (Genesis 10:6, 15). Canaan is also the name of the Promised Land (Genesis 12:5). Later, God promises the land of Canaan to Abraham and blesses him. God will bless everyone on earth because of Abraham (Genesis 12:3).

God also wants to bless humans after the Flood. He commands them to fill the earth with their families. But men go against the plan of God. Men stay in one place and build the Tower of Babel (Genesis 11:1–9). God judges humans for not obeying His command. God causes the men at Babel to become confused. The men no longer understand each other. They stop building and move away to different places. So, the people finally do what God wanted them to do right after the Flood when He said, “Have many children. Fill the earth with your people” (Genesis 9:1, ERV). Yes, we often fail to follow God, just as Ham and the builders of Babel failed. But the sin of Ham (Genesis 9:21, 22) and the story about the Tower of Babel show us an important Bible truth: God can turn our mistakes into blessings.