---
title:  Noah Curses The Son Of Ham 
date:  24/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Noah and Ham in Genesis 9:18–27. What is the message of this story?`

The story about Noah and Ham is the same in many ways as the story about Adam and the forbidden fruit. Both stories talk about (1) bad fruit, (2) wearing no clothes, (3) being covered, (4) a curse, and (5) a blessing.

God never planned for men to drink the juice of spoiled fruit. When Noah drank the wine, he got drunk. Then he lost self-control and took off his clothes. Then Ham “saw” his father. Ham sees something he should not see. So, Ham is the same as Eve, who “saw” the forbidden tree (Genesis 3:6). This connection between Ham and Eve shows us that Ham did not just see something by chance. Ham told his brothers about seeing his father wearing no clothes. But Ham did not try to help his father. Ham left Noah the way he was. But Shem and Japheth cover their father right away.

Our parents show us our past. Because they come before us, they show us who we are and where we come from. When we fail to honor our parents, we will have problems in the future (Exodus 20:12; compare with Ephesians 6:2). Ham did not respect or honor his father. So, God puts a curse on Canaan, the son of Ham. This curse will change the life of Ham in the future and the life of his son Canaan.

We must not use this story to say that we should hate anyone who comes from the family line of Ham. The curse is put only on the son of Ham. This curse shows us that the future children of Canaan will be guilty of the same crimes and sins that Ham did (Genesis 19:5–7, 31–35).

`The curse on Canaan includes a blessing for Shem. What is this blessing? The name of Canaan gives us a big hint. In the Hebrew language, the name “Canaan” means “to bring something under control.” This name shows us that the family line of Shem will win the Promised Land from the children of Canaan. That win will make it possible for the people of God to prepare the way for the Savior to come to this earth. The Savior will cause the children of Japheth “to live in the tents of Shem” (Genesis 9:27). This verse is a special message about the future. It shows us that God will offer His saving mercy to everyone on earth (Daniel 9:27; Isaiah 66:18–20; Romans 11:25). So, we see that in the end the curse on Ham becomes a blessing for all people on the earth.`