---
title:  Family History 
date:  25/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Lamech was the father of Noah. Adam died when Lamech was 56 years old. For sure, Lamech told stories about Adam to Noah. No doubt Noah told these stories about Adam to his own family members before and after the Flood.

`Read Genesis 10. Why does the Bible give us this family history in Genesis 10? (Read also Luke 3:23–38 for the answer.)`

Genesis 10 is a list of family history. This list helps us understand three things: (1) the list helps us understand that the people in the Bible are real. (2) The list shows us the connection between the past with the things that happen later on. (3) The list helps us see the danger of sin. We see the awful things that happen to children after their parents sin.

Genesis 10 shows us the 70 family groups that come from Shem, Ham, and Japheth. This number is an important number in the Bible. Later, 70 family members from the family of Jacob will live in Egypt (Genesis 46:27). 70 leaders of Israel go up the mountain with Moses in the desert (Exodus 24:9). The 70 family groups in Genesis 10 and the 70 leaders in the desert show us the plan of God for Israel. God wanted His people to share Bible truth with people everywhere on the earth. In the New Testament, we read about how Jesus sends 70 of His followers to countries around Israel to share with them the Good News (Luke 10:1).

Genesis 10 helps us see the connection between Adam and the first fathers of the people of Israel. All these men are real people. The first fathers were Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. These men talked with older family members who were witnesses of the things that happened in the past.

`Read the family history in Matthew 1:1–17. What do these verses teach us about the people in this list? They were real people, right? Why is our knowing and believing that they were real people so important for our faith?`