---
title:  One Langauge 
date:  26/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story in Genesis 11:1–4. Why do the people in this story want to stay together in one place?`

The words “the whole earth” (Genesis 11:1, NLV) show us only a small number of people. These were the people living on the earth after the Flood. All these people come together because they want to build a tower to reach to the sky (Genesis 11:4). Do you see how the people try to do what God did when He made the earth? In Genesis 11:3, 4, we read that “they [the people] said.” These words help us remember that “God said” in Genesis 1:6, 9, 14, and so on. In Genesis 11:3, the people also say another thing the same as God: “let us make.” (Compare these verses with Genesis 1:26.) So, we see that the people really want to replace God and His government. We see their evil plan when the people say: “ ‘Let us make a name for ourselves’ ” (Genesis 11:4, NLV). This verse shows us that the people wanted to become famous and be remembered forever. But God is the only One who can “make for Himself a name that lasts [continues] forever” (Isaiah 63:12, 14, NLV).

So, the builders want to replace God. (We know where that idea started, right? Read Isaiah 14:14.) For sure, the builders think about the Flood when they make their plan to build the tower. The men build the tower high, so that they will not be destroyed by another Flood. The builders do not trust the promise of God to never destroy the earth by a Flood again. In the records of Babylon, we read about the Flood and the city of Babel (Babylon). The spirit of the kingdom of Babylon is the same spirit that is in the builders of the Tower of Babel. Both the kingdom and the builders want to reach heaven and replace God.

The story about the Tower of Babel is important in Daniel, too. In Daniel 1:2, we read about the land of Shinar. King Nebuchadnezzar brings to Shinar the riches from the temple in Jerusalem. Shinar makes us think about the Tower of Babel (Genesis 11:2). Later, Nebuchadnezzar builds a big gold statue. No doubt, the king builds the statue in the same place where the Tower of Babel stood. Nebuchadnezzar shows the same spirit as the builders at Babel. God shows Daniel that at the end times humans again will come together against God (Daniel 2:43; Daniel 11:43–45; compare with Revelation 16:15, 16). But the people will fail in their plan just as the people failed at Babel.