---
title:  “let Us Go Down” 
date:  27/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read about God and the Tower of Babel in Genesis 11:5–7 and Psalm 139:7–12. Why does God come down to the earth in this story? What happens at Babel that causes God to make this trip from heaven?`

The builders of Babel try to go up. But as high as they go, God is higher. So, God must come down to them. This idea shows us that God is all-powerful and above all humans. That is why Jesus must come down to us to save us. For sure, there was no other way for us to be saved.

“Then the Lord came down to see the city and the tower that the sons of men had built” (Genesis 11:5, NLV). Does God really need to come down to earth to find out what happens? Of course not! God knows everything (Psalm 139:7–12; compare with Psalm 2:4). But God comes down anyway. Why? Because God wants to show humans how much He cares about them and the things they do.

`Read Luke 1:26–33. What do these verses teach us about God and His coming down to us?`

When Jesus came down to live with us, He showed us His mercy and loving favor. Our good behavior does not bring us to God or save us. The only thing that will save us is God coming down to us in mercy. We see this idea in the story about the Tower of Babel in Genesis. Twice, Genesis says that God goes down. So, we see that God cares very much about what is happening among humans at the Tower of Babel.

The Lord wants to put a stop to the plan of the people at Babel to join together. This plan is evil because the people are sinners. As sinners, their agreement can only lead to more and more evil. So, God chooses to mix up their language. Then they no longer can understand each other. So, they stop building and move away.

“God causes the plan of the builders of Babel to fail. Then the builders feel ashamed. They built the Tower to show off. Their hearts were filled with pride. But now the tower shows that the builders were very foolish. Today, men are doing the same thing that the builders of Babel did. Men today depend on self. They reject the law of God. Satan did the same thing in heaven. This same spirit also filled Cain and all his future children.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 123, adapted.