---
title:  The People Are Scattered 
date:  28/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`In Genesis 11:8, 9 and Genesis 9:1, we read about what happens to the people after the Tower of Babel. “The Lord scattered them over the whole earth” (Genesis 11:9, NIrV). How does this plan from God show us His saving mercy?`

After the Flood, God has a plan for humans. He wants them to “have many children. Fill the earth with your people” (Genesis 9:1, ERV; compare with Genesis 1:28). But the builders go against the plan of God. The builders want to stick together as one people group. One reason they want to build the city of Babel is so that they “ ‘won’t be scattered over the whole earth’ ” (Genesis 11:4, NIrV). The people refuse to move elsewhere. They feel they will be stronger together.

Sad to say, the people wanted to use their strength for evil and not for good. They say, “ ‘Let us make a name [become famous] for ourselves’ ” (Genesis 11:4, NLV). This plan shows us the pride in their hearts.

So, God judges the builders. “The Lord sent the people everywhere over the whole earth” (Genesis 11:9, NLV). The people never wanted to be separated. Now the thing that they fear most happens.

The name “Babel” shows us an important Bible truth. Babel means “door to God.” There is an interesting connection between the word “Babel” and the Hebrew verb “balal.” “Balal” means “confuse” (Genesis 11:9, ERV) or “mix up” (Genesis 11:9, NIrV). The people become confused because they try to go to the “door to God.” But the people do not want to go there to worship God. The people want to replace Him. They think they are gods.

`“The men of Babel wanted to start a government that was separate from God. Some of the builders respected the Lord. But these men were tricked by the plans of the evil builders. God cared about these tricked men. So, because He loved them, God delayed His punishment. God gave the people time to show what was really in their hearts. The sons of God tried to convince the evil builders to change their plans. But in the end, the people joined together in agreement against God. What if God did not stop them? Then the people will cause much evil on the earth. The people wished to turn against God and worship self. They wanted to start a kingdom that completely replaced God.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 123, adapted.`