---
title:  Further Thought
date:  29/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Tower of Babel,” pages 117–124, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“The men decide to build a city. They also want to build a tower that is very high. . . . The builders make these plans to keep the people from scattering over the earth in small communities. God commands the men to move to different places on the earth. God also tells them to fill the earth with their children and to take control of the land. But the builders at Babel want to keep their community in one area. They also want to start a kingdom that will fill the whole earth. Their city will be the capital of this worldwide kingdom. Then everyone on earth will give them glory and worship them because of their wonderful works. The wonderful tower touches the highest part of the skies. The builders want this tower to show everyone on the earth that the builders are very powerful and wise. Their future children will see the tower and always remember them. Then the builders will be famous forever.

“The people who live on the plain of Shinar do not believe the promise of God. They do not trust Him when He says that He will never destroy the earth again with a Flood. Many of the people do not believe in God at all. These people say that forces in nature caused the Flood. Other people believe that God destroyed the old earth with a Flood. But these people are the same as Cain. They turn against God in their hearts. So, they decide to build the tower. One reason they want to build the tower is to stay safe from another Flood. They want to build the tower higher than the Flood waters reached on the earth. The builders think if they make the Tower that high, then they will be safe from all danger in the future. They also want to go up high in the clouds to figure out the cause for the Flood. The whole plan shows that the people want to replace God. The builders also want to turn the hearts of their future children away from God forever and cause them to worship false gods.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 118, 119, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What happens whenever people try to replace God and His government? What trouble comes from this plan? What does history show us?`

`How can we, as a church, avoid building our own “Tower of Babel”?`