---
title:  A Jew In Athens
date:   03/12/2023
---

`Read about Paul in Acts 17:1–16. How did Paul end up in Athens? What did he feel about the things he saw there?`

Paul “was very upset to see that the city was full of statues of gods” (Acts 17:16, NIrV). Paul knew well the history of his people. God warned the Jews many times to stop worshiping statues. Israel’s mistakes upset Paul. So, all the statues Paul saw in Athens made him upset, too. Paul’s heart was filled with love for the people in Athens. Paul wanted to help the Athenians know about Jesus. The people would die in their sins if they did not know Bible truth.

Today, our cities are filled with “statues” of false gods. Maybe these false gods are not the same as the ones Paul saw. We worship gods of entertainment, sports, beauty, money, fashion, and other things. Sad to say, many Christians can walk through a city and not be upset by its false gods. Paul was different. The statues of gods made him upset because He was filled with the Holy Spirit and with love for God. Many Christians in Paul’s day didn’t understand that God wanted His followers to share the Good News with people everywhere. Paul knew that God wanted to save the Athenians along with everyone else. Paul understood that God wanted His followers to share the Good News with people who didn’t know anything about Jesus. These people included the same ones who worshiped statues of gods and the philosophers who filled the streets of Athens. As we saw yesterday, a philosopher is someone who studied about the meaning of life.

Paul went to the marketplace in Athens to meet these statue worshipers and philosophers. Paul knew he couldn’t use the same plan to share Jesus with the non-Jews that he used with the Jews. Jewish beliefs meant nothing to the people that Paul met in the marketplace in Athens. So, Paul needed a brand-new plan.

Today, we often try to share Jesus with people who know nothing about Him, the Bible, or the Christian religion. So, we need a brand-new plan, the same as Paul did. A plan that works fine in Buenos Aires may be useless in Bangkok.

`What types of “statues” of false gods are people worshiping in your community? How can you help your community understand that these “gods” are useless?`