---
title:  Paul In The Areopagus
date:   04/12/2023
---

God gave Paul his work. Wherever Paul went, he preached the Good News about Jesus. So, he did the same thing in Athens.

`Read Acts 17:18–21. How did the people in the marketplace feel and think about Paul’s preaching and questions?`

Paul told the people in the marketplace about Jesus. The people listened to Paul and became curious about the “strange gods” (Acts 17:18, NLV) that Paul talked about. Then the Athenians took Paul to the Areopagus. The Areopagus was a part of the city where the leaders judged legal problems and religious questions. As far as we know, Paul wasn’t in any trouble. The Athenians wanted Paul to tell them more about this “new idea” that he taught (Acts 17:19, ERV). The Athenian people may have thought Paul’s ideas were very strange. At the same time, they respected Paul’s skills as a thinker and speaker.

Acts 17:21 says that the Athenians spent all their time talking about, and listening to, the latest ideas. Was Luke trying to say that the Athenians were lazy? Of course not! Luke wanted us to understand that the Athenians were excellent thinkers. They loved to argue. Remember, many of the most important and famous thinkers in history were Greek: Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. Their ideas continue to be studied to this day. For many hundreds of years, Athens was a famous center for thinkers and philosophers. As we saw already, philosophers were people who study the meaning of life. Many of their ideas were very different from Christian teachings. The idea of a Savior who woke up from the dead was very strange to them.

In Athens, Paul expected the Holy Spirit to use his past education to touch the hearts of the Athenian people. Paul learned his knowledge from Gamaliel, a famous Jewish teacher. To Paul’s surprise, the Spirit used the education Paul got on the streets in Athens. What Paul learned about the people and their city helped him more than anything else to share Jesus. “The wise men of Athens were amazed as they heard Paul talk. He showed them that he knew about their works of art, their writings, and their religion.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of Apostles, page 237, adapted.