---
title:  Paul And The Unknown God
date:   05/12/2023
---

Notice that Paul didn’t make the Athenians feel bad about their false religion or their false gods. Paul looked for whatever good he could find in their beliefs. Then he used those things to help the Athenians understand the Good News about Jesus.

`Read about Paul’s way of sharing the Good News with the Athenian people in Acts 17:22, 23. What things did Paul do to touch their hearts?`

“Then Paul stood up in the court and said, ‘You men of Athens, I see that you are very religious and worship many gods’ ” (Acts 17:22, WE). Paul praised the Athenians for being very religious. Yes, they worshiped false gods. But Paul respected and honored their faith because it showed that they cared about spiritual things.

Paul continued, “ ‘I was going through your city and I saw the things you worship. I found an altar that had these words written on it: “to an unknown godto an unknown god.” You worship a god that you don’t know. This [God] is the God I want to tell you about’ ” (Acts 17:23, ERV). Paul studied the Athenian religion. His words showed that he respected the people. He didn’t announce to the Athenian people that he was an expert. (He really was one! He also had the answers for how these people needed to change.) But Paul didn’t brag, “Hey, everyone! I’m an expert!” If Paul did that, the Athenians would have paid no attention to him. Paul showed the people that he cared for them and wanted the best for them, too.

Paul explained the “unknown god” (Acts 17:23, ERV) to the Athenians. The Athenians believed in god (in many gods, really). Many people back then didn’t believe at all. So, Paul started with that belief and then shared with them more Bible truth. The Athenians built the altar to the unknown god because they wanted to make sure they weren’t missing anything in their worship. Paul didn’t make fun of the idea of an altar to the unknown god. Paul showed that he respected people who cared enough about spiritual things to go to the effort and expense of worshiping something they didn’t know.

`How can you, the same as Paul, find ways to share Jesus with people you meet from other religions?`