---
title:  Introducing A New God
date:   06/12/2023
---

Paul had the attentions of the thinkers in Athens. So, he told them about the God of heaven.

`Read about Paul’s sermon in Acts 17:24–27. What did Paul say to introduce the Athenian people to God?`

Paul’s words thrilled the Athenians. The Athenians are the people who lived in Athens. The Athenian people cared enough about spiritual things to build an altar to a god they didn’t know. So, they were excited to learn what Paul had to tell them. Paul’s words were interesting to them. Paul told them about a God who doesn’t live in a temple. This God needs nothing from humans, and He takes care of their needs. The Greeks had many stories about the gods. The Greek gods weren’t very nice to humans. The Athenians couldn’t trust their gods to help them. Their gods were selfish. They often hurt people who worshiped them. So, the Athenians were excited to learn about Paul’s teaching. Paul told them that there was a God who was loving. The Athenians thought this idea was wonderful!

Paul also told the Athenians that the God they didn’t know was Someone that they could know. More than that, God wants people to know who He is!

For sure, Paul’s sermon at the court was much longer than the few words Luke shares in this story. Luke may have wanted to save space in his book. So, he may have told us only the most important parts of Paul’s sermon. When we look at Paul’s sermon and study it more deeply, we can see that his sermon had five parts:

1\. Paul first praised the Athenians for their faith and their respect for religion.

2\. Next, Paul showed the Athenians that he studied their beliefs. He told them things that he learned and respected about them.

3\. Then Paul told the Athenians that he discovered something about their religion that they said that they didn’t understand.

4\. After that, Paul told them about God. The Athenians needed to know that God lived and loved them. He is not far away from them.

5\. Finally, at the end of his sermon, Paul warns the people not to reject this knowledge about this God they didn’t know.