---
title:  Paul’s Final Words On Mars’ Hill
date:   07/12/2023
---

`Read Paul’s final words to the Athenians in the court on Mars’ Hill (Acts 17:24–34). What does Paul say?`

Paul uses some famous quotes from Greek writers in his sermon to the Athenian people. These Greek writers say things that agree with Bible truth. Paul uses these quotes to help the Athenian people understand his teachings to them about God. We can learn an important lesson from Paul. When we are trying to teach people about Jesus, we should learn about their beliefs. Then we can find ideas we can both agree about. When we follow this plan, we will learn a powerful way of teaching other people about Jesus.

Do you see that Paul uses ideas that he and the Athenians both agree about so that he can help them understand the Resurrection? The Resurrection is the teaching that Jesus woke up from the dead. Paul wants the Athenians to understand the hope this teaching gives them. What happened when Paul finished teaching about the Resurrection? The Bible tells us that some people made fun of the idea. Some people believed. Other people said they wanted to hear Paul tell them more about the idea. The most important thing for us to learn is that everyone paid attention to Paul’s sermon. They wanted to hear what he had to say. That was Paul’s hope from the start.

We know that some people will reject the Good News about Jesus. We must do everything possible to help them understand our message. Paul did everything he could to help the Athenians listen to him with hearts open to the God they didn’t know. This God loved them and wanted the Athenians to know Him personally. God showed the Athenians mercy for the whole time they knew nothing about Him. But the day was coming when God would judge everyone. The proof for God’s future work as Judge was Jesus and His resurrection.

The people heard and understood Paul’s message. Now they had to make a choice to reject it or study more about it. Some did study more and followed Jesus (Acts 17:34).

`Task #1: Ask God to show you how to share Him with someone you know.`

`Task #2: How can you share the Good News about Jesus on social media (Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, and so on)?`