---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   08/12/2023
---

Paul’s experience at the court on Mars’ Hill can teach us how to share the Good News about Jesus with people who know nothing about Him. Because of Paul’s success at Mars’ Hill, a small group of people became Christians and started worshiping God in Athens.

“Paul’s words are an example for us who live today. Paul had deep faith in God. He didn’t lose courage when he was lonely and times were hard. In a place where people worshiped false gods and statues, Paul won people to Jesus.

“Paul’s words to the Athenians are the same as a special treasure for the church. The Athenians’ hearts were filled with pride. So, if Paul wasn’t careful, he could have said something to upset the Athenians. What if Paul attacked their gods? Then Paul would have been in danger of dying the same death as Socrates. [Socrates was made to drink poison because of his teachings.] Paul’s heart was filled with love for the Athenian people. Paul carefully showed the Athenians that their gods were false. How did Paul do this? He showed them the God of Heaven. He was the God they didn’t know.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 240, 241, adapted.

Paul got to know the people in Athens. He studied their culture or way of life. He praised their respect for spiritual things. He didn’t upset or insult the people he talked to. Only God could make this miracle happen. This miracle is the “special treasure” Ellen G. White talks about in the quote above. As a church, we need this knowledge. So, we must pay special attention to what Paul did in Athens and learn from him.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What’s the first thing we should do when we start work for God in a city? What did Paul do in Athens?`

`What is the best way to make friends with people who don’t know God?`

`What are some of the false gods that people worship today? What should you avoid doing when you start working with people who worship these gods?`

`Why didn’t Paul stop preaching after he told the Athenian people that God loved them? Paul told the people that Jesus woke up from the dead. Then some of the people thought Paul was crazy. Should Paul have said that? Yes, or no? Explain your answer.`