---
title:  HOPE IN THE SECOND COMING
date:   07/09/2019
---

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Zechariah 1:12; Matthew 24; Matthew 25, 1 Corinthians 15:12–19; Ecclesiastes 8:14; Revelation 21:1–5.

> **MEMORY VERSE**: <p></p>
> “My dear brothers and sisters, remain [stay] strong in the faith. Don’t [do not] let anything move you [change your mind]. Always give yourselves completely [fully] to the work of the Lord. Because you belong to the Lord, you know that your work is not worthless [has no value]” (1 Corinthians 15:58, NIrV).
> 
JESUS said that the kingdom of God is real. We can be part of it today. He sent His followers to make this same announcement to everyone on earth. Jesus ordered His followers to preach the Good News. He told them to serve other people. He wanted them to give to other people the way He freely gave to them (read Matthew 10:5–8).

But Jesus also said that His kingdom was different. It did “not belong to this world [the ways of life on this earth]” (John 18:36, ERV). Jesus also looked forward to a time when His kingdom will replace all the kingdoms on this earth. Then God’s kingdom will be complete.

As Seventh-day Adventists, we wait for this kingdom to come. We are people of hope. Our hope is not only about a future kingdom and a new earth. But our hope also changes our lives right now. With such hope, we live now as we expect to live in the future. We work now to make a difference here in this life in ways that show what we hope the next life will be.

*Jesus wants us to give to other people the way He freely gives to us.*