---
title:  "“ ‘O LORD OF ALL, HOW LONG?’ ”"
date:   08/09/2019
---

Again and again, the Bible shows God’s people crying out to Him. They cry out to Him to save them from slavery, danger, or from being poor. They cry out to Him to save them from people who are not fair. The Hebrew slaves in Egypt cried out to God to see and hear their suffering. So did the Israelites in Babylon. They asked God to make things right. The Bible shows us many examples of God saving His people from danger. God fights our enemies too. 

The Bible writers tell us about a time when God will put an end to all evil. He will lift up His children who have been hurt and put down by other people. At the same time, these Bible writers continue to ask, O Lord, how long? They want to know how long God’s people must wait before God helps them out of their troubles now. We read one example of this question in the book of Zechariah. The Lord’s angel asks, “ ‘Lord All-Powerful, how long before you comfort Jerusalem and the cities of Judah?’ ” (Zechariah 1:12, ERV). 

The Psalms are full of sad songs. These songs are about how evil people have a lot of money. But good people are poor. Evil people hurt the poor and use them. Many writers of the Psalms ask God again and again to do something to make things better. These writers believe that things on this earth are not fair or the way God planned. So, they cry out to God to show mercy (read Psalm 94:3–7).

It can be hard to believe God is fair when we see so many people who are not fair. We want evil to end. When we do not see God doing anything to stop the evil right away, we get upset. Many Bible writers felt the same way. That is why Habakkuk says, “ ‘O Lord, how long must I call [ask] for help before You will hear? I cry out to You, ‘We are being hurt!’ But You do not save us’ ” (Habakkuk 1:2, NLV).

Many New Testament writers feel the same way. In Romans 8:19–22, we read that nature cries out to God to save the earth and make things new. In Revelation 6:10, we read about the people who were killed for their faith. They cry out to God to put a stop to the attacks against His people.

`Read Luke 18:1–8. In these verses, Jesus explains that His followers should always pray and never lose hope. God will answer the cries and prayers of His people. What hope does that promise give you? At the same time, why do we need faith as we wait?`

*God will lift up His children who have been hurt and put down by other people.*