---
title: 'A Special Hope'
date: 09/09/2019
---

Some people blame religion for making Christians useless in this life. They say it causes believers to care more about the future life than life here and now. These believers use religion to escape from the awful things that happen in life. Some Christians are guilty of acting this way. They do nothing to help anyone around them. They use religion as an excuse to not help other people. 

We also have leaders telling people to not do anything about the bad things happening around them. When Jesus comes back, He will make everything right. 

Yes, this earth is full of sin. So, of course, we want God to make things right. God will stop pain and sorrow. He will make everything fair and right. He will set up His kingdom. This promise gives us hope. Without it, we really have no hope at all. 

Jesus preached a sermon about the end of the earth (read Matthew 24 and 25). Jesus spent the first part of the sermon warning His people to escape from the bad things that will happen in the future. Then He says, “ ‘If that time were not made short, then no one would [will] go on living’ ” (Matthew 24:22, ICB). Yes, Jesus talks about escape. We must not think that this subject was the most important idea in His sermon. He also talks about other things. As Christians, our hope for the future is not simply about escaping the troubles in this life.

`Read Matthew 24 and 25. What are the most important ideas that you see in Jesus’ sermon? How does Jesus want us to live while we wait for Him to come back?`

What we believe about the future changes the way we live now. We must trust in God’s promises. These promises will help us make a difference in other people’s lives. 

`How should your hope in Jesus’ second coming change your life now? Does your hope in that promise cause you to want to help people in need? If yes, in what ways?`

*We must trust in God’s promises. These promises will help us make a difference in other people’s lives.*