---
title:  OUR HOPE THAT GOD WILL WAKE THE DEAD
date:   10/09/2019
---

As Christians, we wait for Jesus’ second coming. Our hope is not just about our wanting a better future. For the New Testament Christians, Jesus’ waking up from the dead was a promise. He came back from the dead. So, that means He will come back again. Then He will remove sin forever. He will make the earth new again (read 1 Corinthians 15:22, 23).

Paul felt that Jesus’ waking up from the dead was very important to Christian beliefs. He said, “And if Christ [Jesus] has not been raised [woken up] from death, then your faith is for nothing [has no worth]; you are still [continue to be] guilty of your sins” (1 Corinthians 15:17, ERV). Think about Paul’s words here. How important to our beliefs is Jesus’ waking up from the dead? Very important. It is the reason for all our hopes.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:12–19. As shown in these verses, why is the truth about the dead waking up again so important to the hope we have as Christians? What if someone asks you to explain why this belief is so important to you as a Christian? What will you say?`

Jesus sent His followers out to announce the kingdom of God (read Matthew 10:5–8). But Jesus’ death destroyed all their hopes and courage. Then Jesus came back to life. When Jesus’ followers saw Him, they were changed forever. After He came back to life, Jesus told His followers what He wanted them to do (Matthew 28:18–20). The Holy Spirit gave them power (read Acts 2:1–4). Then Jesus’ followers went out to change the lives of many people. Jesus’ kingdom controlled their hearts.

Then Jesus’ followers were not afraid of death’s power anymore. They shared everything they had with each other. They lived with courage in the name of Jesus (read 1 Corinthians 15:30, 31). Evil things cause death to happen. This same evil also causes people to use and hurt other people. It is the reason for slavery and why people are not fair. Jesus won the war against death. So, all of earth’s evil will end in the future. “The last enemy to be destroyed will be death” (1 Corinthians 15:26). 

*Jesus will come back again. Then He will remove sin forever. He will make the earth new.*