---
title:  NO MORE TEARS OR PAIN
date:   12/09/2019
---

`Read Revelation 21:1–5 and Revelation 22:1–5. These verses talk about the future life after Jesus comes back. No more sin, death, pain, or tears! Try to make a picture in your mind of that life. It is hard to do, right? Why do you think it is hard to make that picture in your mind? `

The Bible shows life after sin ends. These are wonderful pictures! The Bible tells us what will be there. But do you see how the Bible talks about what will not be there too? This life is all we know. So, it can be hard to make a picture in our minds about a life without pain, suffering, fear, or death. No one will be poor anymore. Everyone and everything will be fair. 

God also promises to do something else: “He will wipe away every tear from their eyes” (Revelation 21:4, ERV). Not only does God stop His people’s suffering. But He also wipes away their tears with His own hands. 

The book of Revelation promises us that God will heal everyone who is hurt by sin. God will use leaves from the tree of life to heal us. John explains that “the leaves of the tree are for healing the nations [all people]” (Revelation 22:2, ERV). This gift shows us God’s love for humans. He cares about what we feel and suffer. His plan for a new earth includes healing us and making us new.

Until then, we should want Jesus to make us the best we can be. We must do our part to help people around us who need what we can give them. What do we have to give? Maybe it is kind words. Or a warm meal. Or medical help. Or maybe we can give clothing or a helping hand. Or wise advice. Whatever we can do, we should do it with the same love that Jesus showed when He was here.

Of course, life on this earth will only get worse and worse. Jesus knew that. But that did not stop Him from helping other people. It should not stop us either. 

*God wipes away our tears with His own hands.*