---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   13/09/2019
---

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

Ellen G. White, “Called to Reach a Higher Standard,” pages 309–322, in The Acts of the Apostles; “Desolation of the Earth,” pages 653–661, in The Great Controversy. 

“God will act in favor of His people. He will free them. At that time, many people who lost everlasting life will understand what they lost. As long as there was a chance for them to be saved, they believed Satan’s lies. They made excuses for their sins. Rich people trusted in their riches. They felt they were better than people who did not have as much money as they did. But these rich people got rich by breaking God’s law. They did not feed the hungry. They did not give clothes to people who had nothing to wear. They were not fair. They did not love mercy. They sold their souls to the devil for riches and for entertainment. They did not care about the only riches God respects. Their lives are failures. Everything they lived for and all their treasures are useless.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide]Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 654, adapted.

“The worldwide war between God and Satan is over. Sin and sinners are gone. Heaven and earth are clean. Peace and joy are everywhere. Life, light, and joy flow from God to deepest space and to the smallest atom, or part of a living thing. Everything is beautiful. In perfect joy, everything God made says that God is love.”—Page 678, adapted. 

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Think about the things we studied about this week. How do they show that life, here and now, is important? Some people believe that we do not need to worry about making things better in this life. God will come and destroy this earth. Then He will start again. Yes, God will make everything right. But why must we be careful not to use this promise of a new earth as an excuse not to help people in need?`

`2. As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe the Bible teaches that evil, trouble, and suffering will get worse before Jesus comes back. Matthew 24 shows us that these things will happen. What hope does Matthew 25 give us in these dark times?`

*“They sold their souls to the devil for riches and entertainment.”*