---
title:  A Slave in Egypt
date:  10/11/2021
---

In the book of Deuteronomy, one theme appears and reappears: that of the Lord redeeming His people Israel from the land of Egypt. Again and again, they are reminded of what God has done for them: “ ‘ “So the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and with an outstretched arm, with great terror and with signs and wonders” ’ ” (Deut. 26:8, NKJV; see also Deut. 16:1–6).

All through the Old Testament, in fact, the story of the Exodus has been referred to as an example of God’s mighty deliverance, by His grace, from the slavery and oppression of Egypt: “For I brought you up from the land of Egypt, I redeemed you from the house of bondage” (Mic. 6:4, NKJV).

Even in the New Testament, this idea appears, with the exodus of Egypt by God’s great power a symbol of salvation by faith in Christ: “By faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, whereas the Egyptians, attempting to do so, were drowned” (Heb. 11:29, NKJV; see also 1 Cor. 10:1–4).

`Read Deuteronomy 5:6–22, where Moses repeats the law, the Ten Commandments, the foundation stipulation of their covenant with Yahweh. Notice the fourth commandment and the reason given here for it. What is being said here that reveals the reality of law and grace?`

Moses repeats the basic commandment to rest on the seventh-day Sabbath, but he gives it an added emphasis. That is, though it has been written in stone in Exodus, here Moses is expanding on what already had been given them. Keep the Sabbath, not only as a memorial of Creation but also as a memorial of redemption from Egypt. God’s grace saved them from Egypt and offered them rest from their works (Heb. 4:1–5). Now, in response to the grace God gave them, they needed to extend that grace to others.

In this case, then, the seventh-day Sabbath becomes not just a powerful symbol of Creation but a powerful symbol of Redemption and grace. Everyone in the household, not just the children—but the servants, the animals, and even the strangers among them—can rest. The Sabbath extends to others the grace given to the Jews, as well, even to those outside of the covenant people themselves. And it is found in the heart of God’s law. What God has graciously done for them, they need to do for others. It’s that simple.

`Read Matthew 18:21–35. In what way is the principle in this parable revealed in the Sabbath commandment, especially as emphasized in Deuteronomy?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Lord desired to guard the interests of servants. He commanded the Israelites to be merciful, and to bear in mind that they themselves had been servants. They were directed to be mindful of the rights of their servants. In no case were they to abuse them. In dealing with them they were not to be exacting, as the Egyptian taskmasters had been with them. They were to exercise tenderness and compassion in the treatment of their servants. God desired them to put themselves in the place of the servants, and deal with them as they would wish others to deal with them under the same circumstances.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary_, vol. 1, p. 1106.

The religion of Jesus Christ works a reformation in life and character. The true Christian seeks constantly for the grace that changes the objectionable features of the natural character. Instead of speaking sharp, dictatorial words, he speaks the words of encouragement that Christ would speak were He in his place. He shows benevolence to all, not only to the few who may flatter him and exalt his wisdom. The purity and holiness revealed in Christ’s life radiates from the life of the true Christian.—_The Upward Look_, p. 75.

The pardon granted by this king represents a divine forgiveness of all sin [Matthew 18:21–35]. Christ is represented by the king, who, moved with compassion, forgave the debt of his servant. Man was under the condemnation of the broken law. He could not save himself, and for this reason Christ came to this world, clothed His divinity with humanity, and gave His life, the just for the unjust. He gave Himself for our sins, and to every soul He freely offers the blood-bought pardon. “With the Lord there is mercy, and with Him is plenteous redemption.” Psalm 130:7.<br/>
Here is the ground upon which we should exercise compassion toward our fellow sinners. “If God so loved us, we ought also to love one another.” 1 John 4:11. “Freely ye have received,” Christ says, “freely give.” Matthew 10:8.—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, pp. 244, 245.

We ourselves owe everything to God’s free grace. Grace in the covenant ordained our adoption. Grace in the Saviour effected our redemption, our regeneration, and our exaltation to heirship with Christ. Let this grace be revealed to others. . . .<br/>
. . . Nothing can justify an unforgiving spirit. He who is unmerci­ful toward others shows that he himself is not a partaker of God’s pardoning grace. In God’s forgiveness the heart of the erring one is drawn close to the great heart of Infinite Love. The tide of divine compassion flows into the sinner’s soul, and from him to the souls of others. The tenderness and mercy that Christ has revealed in His own precious life will be seen in those who become sharers of His grace. But “if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of His.” Romans 8:9. He is alienated from God, fitted only for eternal separation from Him.—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, pp. 250, 251.