---
title:  Victory Over Sin
date:   11/11/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Romans 6; 1 John 1:8–2:1.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
>“[Do not] let sin keep [continue] ruling your lives. You are ruled by God’s kindness and not by the Law” (Romans 6:14, CEV).

Good works cannot save us. So, why should we continue doing good works? Why not just keep sinning instead?

Romans 6 is Paul’s answer to these important questions. Here, Paul explains the topic of “sanctification.” Sanctification is the act of our moving forward in victory over sin. It also includes showing more and more of Jesus’ love in our lives. “Sanctification” comes from the Greek word *hagiasmos*. *Hagiasmos* appears only in two verses in Romans. In English Bibles, *hagiasmos* can be written as “become holy” (Romans 6:19, NIrV) and “holy living” (Romans 6:22, NIrV).

The Bible often uses the verb “to sanctify.” To sanctify means “to separate something for a special work,” almost always for God. And “to be sanctified” often is shown as something that already happened in the past (Acts 20:32). This meaning of “to separate” does not mean that sanctification is not the work of a lifetime or that the Bible is saying that our being made holy is not important. In fact, the Bible teaches that our being made holy is both things. But remember that the Bible almost always uses other words to describe sanctification. 

This week, we will look more at the topic of being saved by faith. We will look at God’s promise to us of victory over sin. God gives this promise to everyone saved by Jesus.
