---
title:  Where Sin Spread
date:   12/11/2017
---

In Romans 5:20, Paul says: “But where sin spread, God’s loving-favor spread all the more” (NLV). Sin is everywhere. The ruin that has happened because of sin is awful. We might feel that our sins are too evil to forgive. But Paul says God’s saving power is enough to defeat sin. That should give us hope! In Romans 5:21, Paul shows that sin leads to death. But God’s saving power defeats death. In Jesus, God gives us everlasting life.

`In Romans 6:1, Paul asks a question to prove his idea about God’s saving power. How does Paul answer this question? Why does he ask this question in the first place? What wrong thinking is Paul trying to correct?`

In Romans 6, Paul argues that people who are made right with God should not sin. Why? These people have died to sin. Then Paul uses the word picture of baptism to explain his meaning.  

Baptism is a word picture for burial. What is buried when we are baptized? The answer is: “our old life, our old sinful self” (Romans 6:6, NLV). That is, the body ruled by sin. And so, “the power of sin” (Romans 6:6, NLV) is destroyed. We no longer serve sin. In Romans 6, Paul says that sin is the same as a person who rules over his servants. But when God destroys the “power of sin,” then sin’s grip on the body is broken. Those who rise from the “grave of water” no longer serve sin. They live new lives.

Jesus died one time, and for all people. But now He is alive forever. In the same way, baptized Christians die to sin. They never again should come under sin’s control. Of course, any baptized Christian knows that sin does not dis-appear from our lives when we come out of the water. *After all, our not being ruled by sin is __not__ the same as saying we longer need to fight against sin*.

“From Romans 6, we clearly see what the words of Paul mean. Paul writes: (1) ‘we have died with Christ’ and (2) ‘we will live with Him also’ (Romans 6:8, NLV). These ideas show we do not need to give in to sin. But sin and wanting to give into it will be part of us (Galatians 5:17) until the body is turned to ashes and a new *[holy]* body is raised up at the Second Coming that is free from the damage of sin.”—Martin Luther, Commentary [Explanation] on Romans, page 100, adapted.
