---
title:  When Sin Rules
date:   13/11/2017
---

Paul warns us not to let sin “have power over” (NLV) our bodies or to let sin “rule” (NIrV) them. These wordings show that “sin” is the same as a king. The Greek word written as “have power over” and “rule” means “to be a king” or “to act as a king does.” Paul is saying that sin is all too willing to rule as a king over our bodies and control everything we do.

What is Paul telling us by saying, “Do not let sin have power” (NLV)? Paul means that people who are made right with God can choose to not allow sin to rule as king in their lives. The name of this power to choose what we want is our will.   

“You need to understand the true power of the will. The will is the power of choice in every human. Everything depends on the right action of the will. God gives humans the power to choose. This power is ours to use. You cannot change your heart. You cannot in your own power give to God its love. But you can choose to serve Him. You can give Him your will. He will help you choose to do the good things He wants you to do. Then, your whole life will be brought under the control of Jesus’ Spirit. Jesus will be the center of your feelings and love. Your thoughts will be in perfect agreement with Jesus’ thoughts.”—Ellen G. White, *Steps to Christ*, page 47, adapted.

The Greek word in Romans 6:12 that is written as “body” (NLV) or “desires” (NIrV) means “to want or wish for.” These desires can be for good things or bad things. What happens when sin rules over us? Then sin will make us want bad things. Evil desires can be strong. We cannot turn away from evil desires or fight against them in our own power. Sin can be a mean king. Sin is a ruler who never is happy. Sin always comes back to us for more. Faith in Jesus’ promises for victory will help us defeat this hard master who shows us no mercy.

The word “so” (NLV; NIrV) at the beginning of Romans 6:12 is important. It points back to what already has been said. Here, “so” points back to Romans 6:10, 11 and to the people who were baptized. These people now have new lives because of Jesus. These people live for God. And “so,” they cannot serve sin anymore.  

`Free will is the power to choose right or wrong, good or evil, Jesus or sin. How are you using this gift?`
