---
title:  Living By God's Loving-Favor
date:   14/11/2017
---

`What does Romans 6:14 mean? Is this verse saying that the Ten Commandments no longer have power to rule over our lives? If no, then why must we continue to obey God’s laws?`

Romans 6:14 is one of the most important truths in the book of Romans. This verse often is used by others to tell us we no longer need to keep the Sabbath holy.

But that idea clearly is not what the verse means. Destroying the Ten Commandments would not destroy sin. As we have said before, the Ten Commandments show us what sin is! Everything up to this point in Romans teaches us that sin is real. So, why would Paul now start saying that the Ten Commandments were thrown out?

Clearly, Paul is not doing that. Instead, Paul says that the person “living by the Law” (Romans 6:14, NLV) will be ruled by sin. Paul uses this wording to mean the person who is following the Jewish plan of worship that offered animals to God in the sinner’s place. This plan of worship also included many human-made rules. But the person who lives by God’s loving-favor will have victory over sin. God writes His law on this person’s heart. And God’s Spirit guides this person’s steps in life.

How is sin defeated by the people who live by the power of grace? Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. Christians living by the power of grace have victory because (1) they have accepted Jesus as the One who takes away their sins. (2) They have been made right with God. (3) They have been baptized into Jesus’ “death.” The old life of these Christians is destroyed. And they rise from the water to live a new life. Doing these three things will knock sin off the “throne” of our lives.

What happens when someone who lives by “God’s loving- favor” (Romans 6:14, NLV) disobeys God’s law? This per-son will be found guilty. This person will face death until God makes him or her right again by His loving-favor. When we live by “God’s loving-favor,” then we are free. God removes our guilt and punishment. Then we are free to live a “new life” (Romans 6:5, NLV). This life shows “we are dead to sin” (Romans 6:2, NLV). Because we are dead, we are no longer sin’s slaves.

`How have you experienced a new life in Jesus?`
