---
title:  Sin or Obedience?
date:   15/11/2017
---

`In Romans 6:16, Paul shows we can choose the master we will serve. But Paul makes it clear that there are only two choices. You can obey God, or you can be a slave to sin. We can see the clear difference between these two powers. What does this difference teach us?`

Again, Paul comes back to his topic about the new life we live by faith. Paul reminds us that faith does not give us the freedom to sin. Faith makes victory over sin possible for us. In fact, it is only by faith that we can have the victory that God promises us.

Paul also comes back to the word picture of sin as a mean master. A master must be obeyed. As we learned, a person must choose to serve one of two masters. He or she can serve sin. But serving sin leads to death. Or a person can choose to serve God. Our serving God leads to our being made right with Him and to everlasting life. Paul makes it clear that we must choose between one side or the other—sin or God. In the end, we must choose either everlasting life or everlasting death.

`Read Romans 6:17. How does this verse explain more fully what Paul says in Romans 6:16?`

Notice that verse 17 connects the idea of obedience to correct “teaching” (NLV). The Roman Christians learned the important rules of the Christian faith. And they obeyed them. So, for Paul, the correct teaching helped the Romans to become “right with God” (Romans 6:18, NLV). But cor-rect teaching can help us only when we “obey [it] with all [our] heart” (Romans 6:17, NLV). Some people say the right teaching is not important as long as we show love. But things are not as easy as that. In an earlier lesson, we learned how worried Paul was about false teaching in the Galatian churches. False teaching led believers away from God. So, we need to be very careful not to think that our beliefs are not important.

`What if we sin after we are baptized? Does our sin mean we are not truly saved? How does 1 John 1:8–2:1 help us understand what it means to follow Jesus, even after we sin at times?`
