---
title:  Free From Sin
date:   16/11/2017
---

`Read Romans 6:19–23. What important ideas do these verses teach us? How can you make these important truths a real part of your life? What does Paul say we risk losing because of our bad choices?`

Paul’s words in Romans 6:19–23 show that he fully understands we are ruined by sin. He knows that “human thinking is weak” (Romans 6:19, NLV) because of sin. Paul knows humans can do a lot of evil when they are left on their own. So again, Paul reminds us of our power to choose. We have the power to choose a new master. That new master is Jesus. He will give us the power to live holy lives.

Now let us jump ahead to Romans 6:23. People often use this verse to show that the penalty for sin is death. The Bible teaches us that sin is doing anything that breaks God’s law. But sin is more than something that is punished by death. We should see sin as Paul described it earlier in Romans 6. You will remember that Paul said sin is a master controlling his servants. What is more, sin fools his servants by giving them an awful paycheck for the work they did serving sin. What pay do you receive when you sin? Paul tells us, “The pay you get is death” (Romans 6:23, NIrV).

Paul points our attention to the fact that serving one master means being freed from serving the other. Again, we see a clear choice must be made: we must serve one master or the other. We cannot serve both. But our being free from the power of sin does not mean we are somehow free of sin forever. Our being free does not mean we do not fight long and hard against sin or, at times, even fall. Our being free does not mean we no longer need to trust in God’s promises to give us victory over sin. Instead, our being free from sin means that sin no longer controls us.

Romans 6 is a powerful command to stop serving sin. Sin is a mean king. Sin offers us nothing but death as a pay-check for all the evil we do. People who are wise will want to be freed from this unkind ruler. Wise people will choose to serve God instead. People who serve God will do what is right and worthy of praise. People who serve God do not do good things to be saved. No, they do what is right because they are saved. When we try to save ourselves by good works we fail to understand the meaning of the Good News and why we need Jesus.
