---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   17/11/2017
---

“Jesus did not sin even in His thoughts. We can have the same victory when we are joined fully to God the way Jesus the Man was. The Holy Spirit lived within Jesus and got Him ready for battle with sin. In the same way, we must stay joined to Jesus by faith. Then we will be made right with God. Sin will have no more power over us. Jesus came to make a way for us to be made right with God and to become holy. Now God reach-es for the hand we hold out to Him in faith. God guides our hand to lay hold of Jesus’ life. In this way, we may live the good and holy life that Jesus lived.”—Ellen G. White, *The Desire of Ages*, page 123, adapted.

“You say you are a Christian. But saying you are a Christian is not enough. Your life must show faith and good works. No man can serve two masters. The children of Satan are Satan’s servants. They give themselves to Satan’s service. Satan’s children cannot be God’s servants unless they reject the devil and all his evil works. It is not safe for servants of the King of heaven [God the Father] to take part in the fun and games that Satan’s servants enjoy. It is often said that such amusements are harmless. But God gave holy truths to His people. These truths separate God’s people from people who do not love or serve God. These same truths make God’s people holy. Seventh-day Adventists should live out these truths of their faith.”—Ellen G. White, *Testimonies [Special Messages] for the Church*, book 1, page 404, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**

`1. God gave us many wonderful promises for victory over sin. But we know that we are wicked sinners. We know how evil our hearts can be. Do our evil hearts make God’s promises useless? Explain.`

`2. What changes have you experienced in your life now that you have a new life in Jesus?`

`3. We always must remember that (1) we are saved because of the things Jesus alone did for us. But what danger could we be in if we forget that (2) Jesus also helps us to become holy as He is holy? Why do we need to understand and give the same attention to both of these parts of being made right with God?`
