---
title:  The Faith of Abraham
date:   28/10/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “Do we then make void the law through faith? God forbid: yea, we establish the law” (Rom. 3:31).

**Introduction**: Rom. 4:13–17; Gal. 3:7–9

**Reward for the Faithful?**

It was my final year of medical school, and our final exams were coming up. These final exams would determine if we finished medical school and became sworn in as doctors. It had us all in panic mode: we were concerned because we had been in medical school for five years and taken many other exams to get us to this point, but if we were not successful in this one, then our dreams of becoming doctors would be put on hold. It was a period of intense studying and practicing.

With weeks to go before these exams, others from my class were studying seven days a week. I remember a friend of mine saying, “Anna, I feel sorry for you because you can’t study on your Sabbath and there is so much to do.” I smiled and told him it was no problem. I studied as much as I could, but when Sabbath came the studying was paused.

It was a lot to study, but I decided that I must remain faithful to God, because the same God who brought me through five years of medical school and helped me make the dean’s list would help me through this period in my life. I trusted Him to lead and direct me. Not only did I achieve my dream of becoming a doctor, but I also graduated with the highest honor for my degree program. Who could it be but God? God rewards His faithful servants.

Abraham was a man of God, faithful and obedient. He was tested by God, but he remained faithful, obeying God’s command, even when he could not understand. As a result of Abraham’s unwavering faithfulness, God rewarded him. God fulfilled His promise to Abraham and made him the father of many nations. As we read in Romans 4:13–17, we see that Abraham was rewarded by God, not because of the law but because of his faith in God. Similarly, God rewards His people for being faithful to Him. The law applies to us today, but justification does not come through our obedience to the law but, rather, through our faith in God. By loving the Lord, obedience to the law becomes second nature, but we must always remember that we are only saved because of God’s grace and mercy, not because of what we have done.

This week our lesson focuses on the faith of Abraham. As you read, may you draw closer to God and be encouraged on your spiritual walk with Him.

_Annalisa Miller, St. Catherine, Jamaica_