---
title:  Trusting God in Spite of . . .
date:   29/10/2017
---

**Logos**: Gen. 12:1–4; 15:6; 17:15, 16; Genesis 22; Heb. 11:8

Mariah, an unwavering Christian, had just lost her job because of cutbacks. She was distraught as she not only had herself to take care of but also her sick aunt, who had taken her in when her mother had passed away. By the end of November, Mariah’s landlord was demanding that she pack her things and leave for nonpayment of her rent. Mariah had nowhere to go, but she had faith that God would provide, even though she could not see or understand His plans for her. So, she packed her belongings in faith and left her apartment, giving the next step over to God. As it turns out, God had a plan for Mariah, and as she stood on the sidewalk, homeless and cold, God provided her with an answer to her prayers.

What does it truly mean to have faith? Does it mean trusting, even when we cannot see the way? Does it mean trusting God to supply all our needs? Yes, it does. Having faith means that we must trust God to deliver us, protect us, and provide for us according to His will and not our own.

**Uprooted in Faith** (Gen. 12:1–4; Heb. 11:8)

Imagine how confused Abraham must have been when the Lord came to him asking that he uproot his life and go “to a land that I will show you” (Gen. 12:1, NKJV). Obeying this command must have required extraordinary faith on Abraham’s part. “By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to the place which he would receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going” (Heb. 11:8, NKJV). This demonstrates that Abraham was a man of strong faith. He believed that God would do as He had promised, he trusted in His words without having to be reassured and constantly reminded that God would come through for him. This is an example for us all: that our faith in God should also be just as strong and unwavering. Like Abraham, we too should live a life of faith.

**Great Reward for the Faithful** (Gen. 15:6; 17:15, 16)

Now Abraham, despite being a man of great faith, was weary because his wife, Sarah, was unable to conceive. This was particularly troubling to Abraham because God had promised that he would be fruitful, a “father of many nations” (Gen. 17:4, NKJV). How could he possibly be a “father of nations” if he had no children? Abraham’s solution to this problem came in Genesis 15:1–4 when he suggested that Eliezer, his servant, become his heir. However, God did not approve of this. God had, after all, made Abraham a promise (Gen. 15:4), and if there is one thing that we do know, it is that God does not go back on His Word. He richly rewards those who demonstrate faith in His promises and are obedient to His will. Eventually, after quite a few trials, God rewarded Abraham and Sarah with a child of their own. Now, not only did Sarah, who was barren, get pregnant but she got pregnant when she was past age (Heb. 11:11). What a mighty God we serve! Even though Abraham had his shortcomings when it came to this aspect of his life, God still rewarded him because, despite his imperfections, Abraham was justified by his faith. As a result of this, God worked things out for his good. He provided Abraham with an heir, a miracle and blessing that Abraham and Sarah could only have dreamed of had it not been for God.

**Truly Tested** (Genesis 22)

Probably the most severe trial of Abraham’s life came in Genesis 22 when God requested that he do a strange thing. “Then He said, ‘Take now your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you’” (Gen. 22:2, NKJV). Can you imagine how Abraham must have felt? Being asked to sacrifice his promised son on an altar in the mountains? It must have been a hard decision to make. However, Abraham did not question God’s command; when it was time to act, he acted. He did not hesitate to do the will of God, even though, as a result, he would lose his only son. He arose the next day and traveled to the mountain to which God had directed him to go and offered his son as a sacrifice, trusting God completely, in spite of the difficulty of the command. As the story turns out, God intervened and saved Isaac’s life when He saw Abraham’s obedience to His command. Let us also bear in mind that not only did God intervene but He also rewarded Abraham for his obedience. “ ‘Because you have done this thing, and have not withheld your son, your only son—blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply your descendants as the stars of the heaven and as the sand which is on the seashore; and your descendants shall possess the gate of their enemies. In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have obeyed My voice’ ” (Gen. 22:16–18, NKJV). Now that is a God who is faithful and true! This goes to show that we, too—like Abraham—need to trust God’s guidance and direction, even though it may go against our own plans and wishes. We, too—like Abraham— need to believe in God’s power and be willingly obedient to Him, because His plan is greater than anything we could even ask or imagine.

**React**

`How great is your faith in God?`

`If there is one thing you have learned from Abraham, what is it?`

`What are some of the ways in which you can strengthen your faith in God?`

_Joanna Johnson, St. Catherine, Jamaica_