---
title:  Faith and Its Breakthrough
date:   31/10/2017
---

**Evidence** Gen. 12:1, 2; 15:13, 14; Isa. 41:8; Heb. 11:6, 17–19

Though Abraham was the son of Terah, he would question the faith of his fathers and seek the Truth. God had a plan for Abraham—He called him to leave his country for a land unknown to him. Abraham went without doubt because he knew that God meant good for him. As Abraham traveled to the Promised Land, many events took place, but there is one that is important to mention: as Abraham grew stronger in faith, God told him to offer his son Isaac as a burnt offering to prove his faith (Genesis 22). Abraham obeyed and brought Isaac to the land of Moriah and laid him on the altar to offer him as a sacrifice to the Lord. Instantaneously, the Lord told him not to kill Isaac, and instead He gave him a ram for the sacrifice. Abraham named this place “Jehovah-Jireh.”

“Jehovah-Jireh is one of the many different names of God found in the Old Testament. Jehovah-Jireh is the KJV’s translation of YHWH-Yireh and means ‘The Lord Will Provide’ (Gen. 22:14). It is the name memorialized by Abraham when God provided the ram to be sacrificed in place of Isaac. . . .

“The account of Abraham on Mt. Moriah thus becomes more than a dramatic illustration of faith and obedience. It is a presentation of the Lord’s eternal grace, continual provision, and all-encompassing wisdom. Jehovah-Jireh is not ‘The Lord Did Provide,’ but ‘The Lord Will Provide.’ In other words, the name does not simply memorialize a past event; it anticipates a future action. . . .

“Jehovah-Jireh provided a sacrifice to save Isaac, and that action was a foreshadowing of the provision of His Son for the salvation of the world.”<sup>1</sup>

The rewards we can obtain by just having faith and the extraordinary blessings of God should motivate us to be faithful. This is evident in the life of Abraham, and if Abraham’s faith made him whole, so can ours.

Finally, let us be courageous and obedient to our Lord and Savior. He is our Jehovah-Jireh, He will provide, and He is always on time— working in His timing and not ours.

**React**

`What can we use today to remind us that God is always faithful to His promises?`

`How can we encourage others to be faithful?`

<sup>1. “What does it mean that God is Jehovah-Jireh?” GotQuestions.org, accessed July 14, 2016, http://www.gotquestions.org/Jehovah-Jireh.html.</sup>

_Ava-gaye Chambers, St. Catherine, Jamaica_