---
title:  Follow the Leader
date:   01/11/2017
---

**How-to**: Romans 4; Gal. 3:11; 1 John 2:3–6

It is clear from Scripture that the people of God have always been called to live by faith. Faith is a part of our everyday life. It is by faith that we accomplish many of our goals. Believing in ourselves and our abilities has led to success; but the faith that we are called to have is not in ourselves and our abilities. We are called to put our faith in God, trusting in Him to do for us that which we cannot do for ourselves. In Romans 4:13–15, the Bible tells us that the promise given to Abraham and his seed was not through the law but through the righteousness of faith, since through the law it would not be possible (Gal. 3:11). The law is a road map to the promise (1 John 2:3–6). The way to the promise is dependent upon our faith in God, not our ability to read and understand the map, because without faith in the Lord it is an impossible journey.

Abraham learned to be faithful and demonstrated it through his life. He obeyed God’s command and was rewarded for his obedience. Below are a few reasons Abraham was able to obey God’s command. If we follow these, then we can also be obedient to God and be rewarded for our obedience:

He knew the Voice of God. This made it possible to follow God’s instructions. To know the Voice of God, we must spend time in His Word and communicate with Him through prayer.

He followed God’s commands. Whatever God’s instructions were, Abraham obeyed them (Genesis 22). The Bible has stated that to obey is better than sacrifice (1 Sam. 15:22). Thus, following God’s instructions is important in demonstrating our faith.

He trusted God. Abraham’s trust in God should inspire us to have no doubts in God’s ability. Abraham remained faithful and obedient even in difficult situations during his life (Rom. 4:18–22). His confidence in God was great, so much so that the Bible declared, “Abram believed the Lord, and he credited it to him as righteousness” (Gen. 15:6, NIV). We must trust in God to lead us in the way that is best for us, even in the times when it seems that the promises of God are not going to be fulfilled in our lives. Let us always remember that God is faithful and He will do what He promised. Abraham’s faith was not in himself or his wife but in the power of God. His hope was built on the Lord, holding on in faith, and we should do the same. Let us trust and obey, because it is the best way!

_Shandel Lawrence, St. Catherine, Jamaica_