---
title:  Faith Demands Action!
date:   02/11/2017
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 4:19

What kind of action did Abraham take to demonstrate his faith in God and claim what he was promised? Simply put, faith in God is knowing that God has the power to do what He says He will do and will do it in the time and accuracy of His Word. Abraham knew this, and as a result he obeyed the Voice of God by leaving his country, friends, and family at the age of seventy-five to dwell in a strange land (Gen. 12:1–4). Many would want to ask the question Abraham did not ask: Why did Abraham have to leave?

Whenever our situation seems hopeless, that is the time our God works best. His strength is made perfect in our weakness. Abraham and Sarah were facing a dead situation, just as many of us do today. At the age of seventy-five, Abraham received the promise of a son (Gen. 12:2–4), but this promise was not fulfilled until twenty-five years later (Rom. 4:19). Sometimes the best action to take is to wait. God is never late; He does things in His time, and He is always on time! While you wait, P-R-A-Y:

**P**—Prepare yourself to accept the blessing of God. If God says He is going to do something, He will do it.

**R**—Repeat the promises of God to yourself as often as possible. Waiting is not as easy as it may sound, and discouragement is always lurking, seeking to cause a soul to give up on what God has promised in His Word. It is therefore a good idea to encourage yourself by writing down the promises of God and repeating them each day.

**A**—Acknowledge the mighty power of God. There is nothing too hard for Him to accomplish. Remember, He is the Creator of all the earth, He made us. There is no problem too hard for God to solve, no sickness too advanced for God to heal, no habit too bad for God to break, and no one too far away for God to reach.

**Y**—Yield. When we recognize how hopeless our situation is without God, our faith will lead us to yield and submit to the will of God, and only then can His will be perfected in us. Abraham demonstrated that faith in God demands action in order to claim what God has promised. What action will you take today?

**React**

`Why do we as Christians worry so much when faced with situations that seem hopeless?`

`What action does your faith demand, for you to be saved?`

_Renaldo Mcleod, St. Catherine, Jamaica_