---
title:  Faith Is the Ticket
date:   03/11/2017
---

**Exploration**: Rom. 4:1–8

**Conclude**

You don’t have to read very far into the lives of Bible heroes to discover that they were epic sinners. David, whom we recognize as one of God’s favorites, had so much blood on his hands that he was restricted from building the temple. So how will he ever make it to heaven? The same way that the rest of us do—through faith. Paul says we aren’t owed salvation because of our fabulous works. The only wage we deserve is death. But faith is like a coupon that lets us claim Christ’s works as our own. Pretty neat, huh?

**Consider**

- Composing an honest song that expresses your struggle to keep the Ten Commandments. You might begin the song with your early experiences with the law and end with your attitude toward it today.
- Taking a photo to go along with a favorite verse from Psalm 51 and posting it on social media.
- Hiking outdoors and searching for something in nature that symbolizes the innocence and renewal you feel when you know your sins are forgiven.
- Going outside with a friend and tossing a raw egg back and forth. Reflect on how trying to keep the egg intact is like trying to keep from breaking God’s law. Once the egg is broken, do you have the power to fix it?
- Making a list of the rules you had in your home growing up. Then circle the ones you remember breaking. Call a family member and talk about the rules and how you feel about them now. Do you feel forgiven for the times you broke the rules? Do your parents love you because of the times you were successful in keeping the rules or because you are their child?
- Walking around your home or apartment and finding items that were given to you for free. As you come to each item, give a prayer of thanks for the person who give it to you and finish with a prayer of thanks for evidence of God’s grace in your life.

**Connect**

1. Romans 3; 4.
2. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, chap. 7, “Luther’s Separation From Rome.”
3. Marvin Moore, The Gospel vs. Legalism (Pacific Press®, 2013).

_Kim Peckham, Sharpsburg, Maryland, USA_