---
title:  Who’s With You When It Matters Most?
date:  30/03/2019
---

**Introduction**: Josh. 24:15;Eph. 4:2; James 5:16

I live in a part of the world that experiences four seasons. Yet often two months into the spring by the calendar, the residents of New Jersey may find themselves still waiting for the warm winds of spring to waft in and the lingering frost of winter to fade away. As the seasons cycle from spring to summer to autumn and then winter, so it is with life. Life has its cycle as well. We go through times of happiness and joy, and unfortunately times of worry and sorrow.

Like the seasons, we are sometimes in one phase of life that lasts longer than we want, and we long for happier days. But all hope is not lost! Because of God and His everlasting Word, we always have hope. Although winter may linger on, we may have hope that the warm weather will come. But what do we do when we face life’s winter with no telltale signs of revitalization? God in His infinite wisdom and immeasurable love has made it so that we do not face these times alone; thankfully, we have a family to go through the different cycles of life with.

Close your eyes and think for a moment on some of the most impactful times in your life. Times when you were extremely happy; perhaps the day that you achieved a remarkable milestone. Think about some of the times that weren’t so good, times of gloom and anxiety. Now think about the people that you turned to who supported and prayed for you or celebrated with you. For most of us, those individuals were family members. Whatever we may be going through, whether very high points in life or very low, God has made it such that we can face these times as a family. After first seeking God, we can look to our loved ones to help us cope with the stresses of life.

The Bible encourages us to pour out our hearts in prayer for one another (James 5:16) and to bear with one another and express love and gentleness (Eph. 4:2).

One day these cycles of life will end. Let it be our aim and prayer answered that we will meet that day at the Savior’s side along with those we have traveled with through the cycles of life. Let us all, with the hope of making it to God’s kingdom with all of our loved ones, live a life that boldly proclaims, “As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord” (Josh. 24:15), no matter what season of life we may face.

---

_Angelique Francois, New Jersey, USA_