---
title:  A Time to Be Born, a Time to Die
date:  01/04/2019
---

**Testimony**: Eccles. 3:2

I recently attended the particularly sad funeral service of a family member, and it caused me to contemplate the meaning of life. I asked myself this question: “If we all end up dying, what, then, is the purpose of living?”

It is human nature to make attempts to control our circumstances. We spend many waking hours planning the way our lives should go. Yet no one knows when death will knock at life’s door, although we are not oblivious to the fact that death is inevitable. Nonetheless, there are seasons in our lives that are appointed by God. Before we were born, God had established a time for us to be born, and it is He who determines when we will leave the earth.

From time immemorial God knew us, even before He formed each of us in our mother’s womb and set us apart for His appointed purpose at a particular time (Jer. 1:5). So what are we to do with our short time on earth, one may ask? “The members of God’s church are to be zealous of good works, separating from worldly ambition and walking in the footsteps of Him who went about doing good. With hearts filled with sympathy and compassion, they are to minister to those in need of help, bringing to sinners a knowledge of the Saviour’s love. Such work calls for laborious effort, but it brings a rich reward. Those who engage in it with sincerity of purpose will see souls won to the Saviour, for the influence that attends the practical carrying out of the divine commission is irresistible.”1

“God’s purpose for the children growing up beside our hearths is wider, deeper, higher, than our restricted vision has comprehended.”2 God has a wonderful plan for our lives, and although our days are numbered, He promises that His plan will give us hope, a future, and an expected end (Jer. 29:11). God’s wonderful plan for our life is that we continually surrender the sinful desires of our flesh and reflect His image. That we “walk, not as unwise but as wise, making the best use of the time, because the days are evil” (Eph. 5:15, 16, ESV). Once we are living fulfilled lives, we can go out into this world to do what God has called us to do—to tell others of His great love and His soon coming as King of kings.

**React**

`1. How would you describe the season of life you are in now?`

`2. How has God already revealed His plan for you during this time?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 109, 110.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Education, p. 262.</sup>

_Lyndon Prince, Newark, New Jersey, USA_