---
title:  Seasons’ Cycle
date:  02/04/2019
---

**Evidence**: Ps. 90:10; Eccles. 3:2; Isa. 61:3

Our lives are very short. The average human life spans 70 years, and the Word says, “If by reason of strength they are eighty years” (Ps. 90:10, NKJV). The seasons of the earth provide a salvific picture of life. In winter the soil is hardened. Bats, bears, skunks, snakes, and even bees hibernate, and trees lose their foliage while their roots are preserved beneath the soil.

Winter is the darkest season as nights are longer and days become shorter. In springtime, animals awake from their sleep or return from migration to warmer climates, most times with newborns. Dormant vegetation springs forth in a magnificent array of colors. Summer leads to longer days and shorter nights. Autumn is the preparation for winter as nights become longer again. Vegetation then falls to the earth as signs of vibrant life fade away. The earth is bare and despondent. And the cycle begins again.

This is the cycle of life and death. Solomon chronicled it perfectly in Ecclesiastes 3:2, where it says to everything there is a “time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant and a time to uproot” (NIV). God promises life from death and “beauty from ashes” in Isaiah 61:3 for all those who trust and believe in His promise of salvation. But for those who reject God’s promise of salvation, Malachi 4:3 says they will be ashes under the soles of the feet of the righteous. The story of Sarah and Abraham shows that God has the preeminence over death, life, and time. Sarah and Abraham had been childless until God visited them in the fields of Mamre, at which time God promised them a son. Sarah, who was 90 years old, was barren and past childbearing age. Yet God’s promise proved true because our times and lives are in His hands whether we live or die.

Like the trees in winter that are made alive again in spring, God preserved the life He had planted in Sarah so that His salvific promise made to Abraham would come to pass. God’s purposes come to pass through the promises He makes. Nothing is too hard for God. At the time appointed, the promise came to pass. When we hold to the promises of God we, like Sarah and Abraham, have the surety of knowing that there is nothing to fear. We have peace when our love and confidence are placed in the Word of God (Ps. 71:5).

**React**

`1. What are some biblical promises you can hold to for hope and confidence in Christ?`

`2. How does nature reveal God’s salvation plan?`

---

_Lesanndra Morton, Newark, New Jersey, USA_