---
title:  Leaving the Nest
date:  03/04/2019
---

**How-to**: Ps. 71:5; Eccles. 3:2; Acts 9:1–22

So you’ve successfully modeled your family after God’s guidelines, but it’s time for yet another change. Your children are now ready to leave your home. Are they ready to leave and face the world on their own? Many guardians fear letting their children go into the world, but the truth of the matter is that they also, at one point, had to leave their home and journey into the world. To grow as Christians, we must go through trials and build faith in God. God allows us to be separated for a reason. God has a plan for each and every one of us, even for our youth (Ps. 71:5). Our mission may be in our hometown or it could be across the world, but it all leads to one goal, which is spreading the gospel of our Lord.

Leaving the comfort of home could be quite worrisome, but it is a necessary change in life. When writing about family, Ellen G. White said parents have the power of “the molding of [their] children’s characters, that they may be fitted for the higher, immortal life.”1 It is the duty of the parents to build a family that is fit for the eyes of God.

This is not to say that we or our youth will not make mistakes as we live in this fallen world. Even Saul, who later went on to become an apostle, was once a persecutor of Christians. After seeing the truth of the Lord, Saul, who was also called Paul, set out to tell of God’s Word (Acts 9:1–22). As humans we are not perfect and will probably get things wrong on our first try like Saul; but with Jesus in our hearts, we can do great things. Our homes should be like nests of love, forgiveness, and nurturing; the same way that God’s heart is for us.

**React**

`1. When is the right time to let children make choices on their own?`

`2. How do you know whether you’re being called to minister?`

`3. Why does God allow our loved ones who are raised in the church to be derailed by the world?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, p. 231.</sup>

_Jascinda Butts, Union, New Jersey, USA_