---
title:  Can You Hear Me?
date:  04/04/2019
---

**Opinion**: James 1:19, 20

God is capable of every emotion we experience since we were made in His image. When Jesus walked the earth, He experienced situations and emotions like those we face today. Scripture tells us that although God has the opportunity to feel anger and punish us right on the spot, He doesn’t. Why?

Because He is “swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath” (James 1:19). He hears not just the words coming from our mouths but also what our hearts say. Listening does not solely encompass what we physically hear. There are many ways to listen to a person, especially when a person feels as though he or she cannot speak. When we allow ourselves to yield to God’s power, we will be able to hear as He hears the concerns of the people around us so that we may support and lift one another up. Listening creates a deeper sense of understanding for us because by doing so we are presented with the opportunity to constantly affirm our faith.

We can boldly say we belong to Christ without having to utter a single word. It is important to note that being “swift to listen” precedes both “slow to speak” and “slow to wrath.” Listening can be one of the most difficult things for us to do because in doing so, we are essentially humbling ourselves to the opinion or the experience of another person, regardless of how we may actually feel or emotionally react to it. We are putting whatever pride we have aside. This experience is crucial in our walk with God because we are allowing ourselves to see the world and people the way Jesus did when He walked and talked with us. It isn’t easy, but it isn’t impossible either. This assurance can and should be something that influences the rhythm of our daily lives.

We see the evidence of God’s love for us every day in the way He always listens to us. God wants us to reveal His character as His servants by following the same precepts. Through listening we are loving those around us by letting them know that we care for them. The very act of listening allows us to be in tune with others, especially when God knows they want to draw nearer to Him. If we aren’t able to listen to a fellow sinner, how can we ever expect to be able to fully listen to God?

**React**

`While listening, are you thinking of a response, or are you actually considering what the other party is saying?`

---

_Angel Fosuhene, Newark, New Jersey, USA_