---
title:  The Purpose of Seasons
date:  05/04/2019
---

**Exploration**: Eccles. 3:1

**Conclude**

Life is temporal, having seasons, stages, and chapters. To each of these time periods, there is one or several truths that must be and only can be learned during that time. It is God’s purpose that we experience each of these seasons, from the fresh newness of spring and the glorious warmth of summer to the fading beauty of autumn and silent splendor of winter. As in nature, so in our lives, let us see “every purpose under the heaven” and live our time in fulfilling ways as artfully and gracefully as the Lord intended.

**Consider**

- Mapping out the different stages of life (childhood, adolescence, twenties, young adult, etc.) and figuring out what important truth one is to learn during each time period. Find its parallel and support in Scripture.
- Imagining yourself in your senior years. What do you look like? What values will have changed? What will have stayed the same? What will your family look like? Why?
- Journaling to reflect on the earlier stages of life and marking high points that need to be remembered and low points that could teach deeper lessons.
- Creating a montage of how your nuclear family has transitioned from stage to stage and visually communicating how has God led through this history.
- Writing a song that reminisces on the past but garners courage and hope in God’s leading for the future.
- Planting a garden with various plants that all blossom or give forth fruit in different seasons.
- Sitting down with someone and practicing a listening test. Listen to your partner talk without interrupting for five minutes and give intermittent nonverbal acknowledgments of listening. Switch afterward, and then discuss pros and cons.


**Connect**

Exodus 4; Ecclesiastes 3; John 3; Titus 2.

---

_Junghyuk Koo, Yeoju, Kyonggido, South Korea_