---
title:  Christian Education 
date:  22/11/2020
---

A rabbi, or Jewish teacher, asked his students, “How can you tell when night ends and the day begins?”

Several students raised their hands to answer. “Rabbi,” one student asked, “Is it when there is enough light to help you see that the fig tree is not the olive tree?”

“No,” the rabbi said.

“Another student raised his hand: “Rabbi, is it when there is enough light to help you to tell that a sheep is not a goat?”

The rabbi listened to many different answers. Then he announced, “Students, you know the night has ended and the day begins when you can look at a face you have never seen and see that stranger as a brother or sister. Until then, it is night even if the day is very bright.”

`Read the story Jesus tells in Luke 10:30–37. What lesson is Jesus trying to teach with this story? What should this lesson tell us about what must be part of any Christian education?`

God has given us Seventh-day Adventists a lot of Bible truth. He has shown us Bible truth about what happens when we die, the Sabbath, 1844, God’s work as our Judge, and the worldwide war between good and evil. Most of the Christian religions do not understand these teachings. These truths are very important. But what good do they do us if we are not kind to people? Or if we hate other people? Or if we allow our feelings to cause us to behave as if we are better than some people?

Christian education must cause us to be better people. We must see people the way Jesus sees them. Jesus died for each one of us on the cross. He accepted the punishment for our sins. He paid for us all with His blood. If we look to the Cross, then we will see the value and worth of every human. Then we will love them as God does. Christian education must include this teaching. Or it will not be worthy of the name “Christian.”

`Are there people in your country that everyone feels it is ok to dislike? Why, as a Christian, must you show these same people love?`