---
title:  Let Your Light Shine 
date:  23/11/2020
---

Everywhere we look, things keep getting worse on this earth. This planet is becoming a very dark place. We don’t need to look too far from home to see the darkness. We, too, have our own difficult experiences with pain, sickness, and suffering on this dark earth. We get sick. Our loved ones die. We watch couples divorce and families fall apart. It is hard to understand many of the evil things that happen in life.

Yes, bad things happen. But in the middle of all these ugly things and the spiritual darkness around us, we hear Jesus’ words in our hearts:

`“ ‘You are the light of the world. A town built on a hill cannot be hidden. Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead they put it on its stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven’ ” (Matthew 5:14–16, NIV). What do these verses teach us about how we must live? As Christians, how do our actions and behavior change the way that other people see God?`

Make a picture in your mind of the group that Jesus talks to. They sit on a hillside by the Sea of Galilee under the hot sun. How do you think the people understood Jesus’ words? The people know all about light and darkness. Sure, they have a lot of darkness to be afraid of. The Romans control their country. It is a scary time for the Jews.

The Romans are everywhere. The people who sit on the hillside know that anyone who dares to make trouble will end up dying on a Roman cross.

Even so, here is Jesus, asking the Jews to live as light. To show mercy. To have holy hearts and minds. To be makers of peace. Jesus’ words show us that Christian education must include teaching our students to be lights on this earth. Christian education also must teach students how to make good choices and decisions. Our choices must show people that God lives and that He is love.

`What are ways that we can show other people that God lives and that He loves them?`