---
title:  Living As Jesus’ Followers 
date:  24/11/2020
---

If the church wants Christian education to be a success, we must start with Jesus. Jesus invited people to follow Him. Jesus trained them to work for God. Jesus gave them chances to help people. Jesus showed His followers how to love people and care for them too. Daily Jesus showed them how life will be better for everyone when we love each other as brothers and sisters.

`Read what Jesus says in Luke 4:18–23. What is Jesus’ message to each of us as His followers?`

For three years Jesus’ followers watched Jesus, their Teacher. Jesus showed His followers how to live the important rules of His kingdom. Jesus announced these rules in His first sermon in the synagogue at Nazareth. A synagogue is a Jewish place of worship. Jesus showed His followers that they must forgive. They must show mercy and love. Being a follower of Jesus is not always easy. We must separate from the things on this earth. Often, we may feel lonely. Life may be hard at times. Jesus taught His followers another important lesson about following Him. We are followers for life, not just for one day.

“Jesus’ command for His followers . . . includes all believers to the end of time. . . . God gives the Good News to each person who follows Jesus. We must share the Good News. God gives work to everyone who accepts Jesus’ gift of life. God asks them to save other humans. God started the church to do this work. When we join the church, God expects us to be co-workers with Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 822, adapted.

As Jesus’ followers today, we must make sure that Jesus always is the center of our fellowship and our worship. It is good to remember that Jesus invented our following Him. True, the rabbis, or Jewish teachers, of the day had followers. But Jesus invited men and women to follow Him. The rabbis never believed that being with Jesus was more important than all their rules. But that’s just what following Jesus meant.

As Jesus’ followers, we respect all people. We work together to make the church a place where all people can grow. Christian education must include this idea too. We follow in Jesus’ footsteps by helping people in need and sharing the Good News.