---
title:  Searching For Bible Truth 
date:  25/11/2020
---

Scientist Albert Einstein wrote: “The important thing is not to stop asking questions. We must always want to know and learn new things. Then we will feel surprised and excited when we think about this life, the life beyond this one, and what is real. We should try to understand a little bit of these mysteries every day. Don’t ever lose your wish to know and learn new things. That wish is something holy.”

Life is filled with mystery. Modern science has shown us that life is more surprising and wonderful than we ever thought possible. And if that’s true for nature, how much more so is it true for spiritual things?

`Read Jeremiah 29:13; Matthew 7:7; Acts 17:26, 27; Psalm 25:5; John 16:13; and John 17:17. What do these verses teach about the search for truth and for answers?`

The Bible is filled with stories about people who are very much the same as we are. They, too, have questions, fear, hopes, and joys. They also search for truth. They want answers to life’s most difficult questions.

“He has made everything beautiful in its time. He has put thoughts of the forever [everlasting life] in man’s mind, yet [but] man cannot understand the work God has done from the beginning to the end” (Ecclesiastes 3:11, NLV). What is Solomon saying in this verse? Some people write the Hebrew word “ ‘olam” as “forever.” But other people write it as “having an understanding about the past and the future.” So, this verse shows us that God has put in our hearts and minds a wish for life that doesn’t end. As humans, God put it in our hearts to think about the “big questions” about life.

Of course, the Bible has a big part in the answer to these questions. Who are we? Why are we here? How should we live? What happens when we die? Why is there evil and suffering on the earth? People have been asking these questions since men started to make a record of this earth’s history. It is a blessing to help people understand the answers to some of these questions now. Christian education helps show people these answers in God’s Word, the Bible.

`Why must the Bible be important in our answering the big questions about life?`