---
title:  Sharing Our Lives 
date:  26/11/2020
---

`Read 1 Thessalonians 2:6–8. What is Paul saying in these verses? How can we show this important rule in our schools and churches? Why is it important that we do so?`

All around us we see that communities are attacked and broken. We live in an age in which the Bible teaching about the church is needed more than ever. As Matthew 18:20, ERV, says: “ ‘Yes, if two or three people are together believing in me, I am there with them.’ ” The New Testament church started in the homes of believers. The church and Christian community grew out of these meetings. Here, in these home churches, the Christian community met in small groups. They prayed, sang, and celebrated the Lord’s Supper together. They also learned and shared Jesus’ words with each other.

These worship groups also became the first church schools. There, new members first learned about the Bible and the new life in Jesus. The church cared deeply about the education of its new members, as we see from Paul’s writings. In Romans 12:2, ERV, Paul writes, “Don’t change yourselves to be like [the same as] the people of this world, but let God change you inside with a new way of thinking.” The New Testament Christians soon discovered that the faith community, or church, is the best place to live out the Good News. In the church, we have reason to sing louder, to pray harder, and to be more caring. When we hear Christians talk about God’s love, we understand how good God has been to us. When we hear Christians talk about their pain, we understand God’s healing in our lives. We feel a new wish to be examples of God’s mercy and healing.

In 1 Thessalonians 2:6–8, Paul says that the Good News is everything. It is the power of the Cross. It is the promise of the Second Coming. There was no better news on the earth. That is why Paul spent his life sharing the story about Jesus. And that’s why we should too.

Paul also tells us in these verses that the best way to understand the Good News is to share it with other people and to share life with them. Remember, people watch us closely to see if our lives show the message of mercy found in the Bible.

`Think about how you live. What do people see about Jesus when they look at your life?`