---
title:  Further Thought
date:  27/11/2020
---

“In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus wanted to fix all the problems that false education caused. Jesus wanted to give people a correct understanding about His kingdom and who He was. But Jesus did not do this by making an attack on the wrong beliefs of the people. Jesus saw the pain caused by sin. But He did not show the people that they were awful. Jesus taught them about something better than what they knew. Jesus did not fight with them or argue against their ideas about God’s kingdom. But He told them what they needed to do to enter His kingdom. Jesus let them make up their own minds about His rules and what those rules showed them about His kingdom. The Bible truths that Jesus taught are just as important today as they were back then. We, too, need to learn the basic rules for the kingdom of God.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 299, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Writer Robert Louis Stevenson was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1850. Stevenson tells the story from his childhood about what happened one night when his nurse was getting ready for bed. Stevenson slipped away from her and went to the window. He looked out and saw a man with a lamp. The man went from one gas lamp to the next. With childish joy, Stevenson told his nurse to come to the window. “Look at that man!” he said. “He’s punching holes in the dark!” What part has God given you to bring light into your community? If you aren’t sure, invite several church members to sit with you. Talk about what you can do together to “punch holes in the dark.”`

`Look at Jesus’ own life on this earth: He was God who came to live with us. He lived on our earth. He suffered, He laughed, He cried with us. This helps us remember that God asks us to care for people around us. How will you do this? Remember, the church is the place where we work together with God to share His love with people. How can you work together with the young people in your church to help you do this work?`

`As Seventh-day Adventists, we must teach God’s truth to other people. How can and should the local church teach these truths to people in the community? At the same time, how can we make the church a safe place where people can talk about the difficult questions they have about life?`