---
title:  The Fruit of the Spirit
date:   11/02/2017
---

### The Fruit of the Spirit

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON
John 15:1–11; Galatians 5:22; 1 Corinthians 13; Romans 14:17; Ephesians 5:9; Matthew 5:5.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE</p>
> “But the fruit the Holy Spirit produces is love, joy and peace. It is being patient, kind and good. It is being faithful and gentle and having control of oneself. There is no law against things of that kind” (Galatians 5:22, 23, NIrV).

HAVING THE FRUIT OF THE SPIRIT is what it means to truly live a Christian life. The apostle (teacher; leader) Paul lists nine different kinds of spiritual fruit. But all the fruits are really just one fruit. This is because they grow together as one fruit in the Christian’s life. Yet, the fruit of the Spirit does not show us what a person might be able to do for God. Instead, it shows how the person lives for God. It tells who the person is. All the fruit listed in Galatians 5:22, 23 is found in Jesus Christ. 

The fruit of the Spirit, though, is not something we grow by our own hard work or efforts. Yes, it is possible just by working hard to produce what seems like the fruit of the Spirit. But what we produce ourselves is not the same as what the Holy Spirit does in us. What we produce ourselves is like a wax fruit compared to the real thing. Real spiritual fruit is not made or grown by human efforts. Instead, it grows out of a relationship with God. The Holy Spirit connects us with Jesus through His Written Word, the Bible. Then we start to act and think and feel the way God wants us to. We begin to show His fruit in our lives.

###### DEFINITIONS

1. **compared**—when two or more things are shown to be the same or different.