---
title:  WHAT IS NEEDED TO GROW THE FRUIT OF THE SPIRIT
date:   12/02/2017
---

### WHAT IS NEEDED TO GROW THE FRUIT OF THE SPIRIT

(John 15:1–11)

`Read John 15:1–11. In these verses, why can fruit only grow out of a living relationship with Jesus? Jesus is the Vine. Why is abiding (living) in the Vine so important? How do we abide in (stay connected to; live in) Him?` 

The first secret to growing real Christian fruit is to abide in Christ. Apart from Christ, we cannot produce real spiritual fruit. But the fruit of the Spirit is not forced upon us from outside. Instead, it is the result of the life of Christ within us. In John 15:1–11, Jesus tells us that He is the Vine and the believers are the branches. Growing fruit is the result of the life of Christ flowing through the branches of the believers. The growth of the fruit is God’s work through Jesus Christ in us. 

However, it is the responsibility of the believer to abide in Christ. Suppose we let Christ live in our thoughts. Then He will be seen in what we do. He will live His life in us. And the life He lived while on earth will be shown in us. In other words, we will show who He is. Others will see His thoughts, feelings, and actions in our lives. 

In this way, the fruit of the Spirit is the character of Jesus. It is grown by the Holy Spirit in the followers of Christ. When Christ lives in us, we will “live by the Holy Spirit’s power. Then you will not do what your desires controlled by sin want you to do” (Galatians 5:16, NIrV). 

In the words of Jesus, “ ‘Every good tree bears [grows; produces] good fruit. But a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree [cannot] bear bad fruit. And a bad tree [cannot] bear good fruit’ ” (Matthew 7:17, 18, NIrV). So, the good fruit is the natural result of our living relationship with Jesus through the Holy Spirit. We must cooperate, then, with the Spirit’s work on our hearts. And our characters will change. The Holy Spirit will give us power to live victorious lives in Christ. The Spirit will help us to develop the virtues (goodness) seen in those who are God’s children.

`In 2 Timothy 3:5, the apostle Paul describes people who “will act as if they were serving God. But what they do will show that they have turned their backs on God’s power” (NIrV). What is the difference between a life that pretends to be religious and a life that is filled with the Holy Spirit? How can we know which kind of life we ourselves are living?`

##### DEFINITIONS

2. **character**—who someone is. The thoughts, feelings, and actions make up a person’s character.