---
title:  THE FRUIT OF LOVE
date:   13/02/2017
---

### THE FRUIT OF LOVE
 
(Galatians 5:22)

`Read Galatians 5:22 and 1 Corinthians 13. In the verses, why is love the first and most important part of the fruit of the Spirit? How does love affect all the other parts of this fruit?`

Love is the first part of the fruit of the Spirit that gets mentioned. This is because love flows through the whole fruit. In a way, all other parts of the fruit listed can be thought of as parts of love. After all, “God is love” (1 John 4:8). So, the greatest Christian virtue (good behavior) is love (1 Corinthians 13:13). God’s love, then, is the foundation and source (beginning) of every other goodness. “God’s love has poured out into our hearts through the Holy Spirit” (Romans 5:5, NIV). In other words, love is the proof that we are God’s children. 

This love is far more than human affection or feeling. It cannot be produced by human effort. It comes as a result of abiding (living) in Christ. Such love is generous and unselfish. We have done nothing to earn it or deserve it. It alone has the power to change our lives. This is because divine love is both strong and tender. It leads the sinner to repentance. It awakens the desire for something better. Such love even has the power to unite those who once were enemies (Luke 6:27, 28; Romans 5:8). By our love for one another, the world will know that Christians are the true followers of Jesus Christ (John 13:35). The fruit of love will also lead Christians to be understanding toward others.

It is interesting that the description of love in 1 Corinthians 13 comes right between two chapters that deal with the gifts of the Spirit. But chapter 13 deals with love, which is the fruit of the Spirit. This shows that even the greatest gifts are nothing without love. In fact, the gifts of the Spirit without the fruit of the Spirit are powerless. By themselves, they do not produce the blessing that God desires. But love is the glue that binds all other virtues of the fruit of the Spirit together as one. Love makes everything we do seem true and believable to others. 

`What parts of your life lack (do not have) the fruit of love? Ask the Holy Spirit to fill you with love toward those people with whom you are dealing on a daily basis. Remember that God also loves us through other people. What are the ways that you can show others love? How does love affect those other virtues mentioned in the fruit of the Spirit?`

##### DEFINITIONS

3. **repentance**—to feel sorry for having sinned. To turn away from sinning with the help of the Holy Spirit’s power.