---
title:  JOY, PEACE, AND PATIENCE
date:   14/02/2017
---

### JOY, PEACE, AND PATIENCE

(2 Peter 3:9)

Romans 14:17 reads, “God’s kingdom is not about eating or drinking. It is about doing what is right and having peace and joy. All this [goodness] comes through the Holy Spirit” (NIrV). What this verse means is that joy is love’s answer to the blessings of God and to His great mercy and forgiveness. 

Human joy often puts its attention upon earthly things. It is affected by the conditions (way things are) that surround us. But true joy is rooted in the fruit of the Spirit. It puts its attention on God and what He has done for us. It is not affected by the conditions that surround it. As God’s people, we are to be joyful. Being joyful does not mean we have to smile all the time, even though a friendly smile shares so much joy. But our trust in God will give us many reasons to be joyful over what He has done for us and in us. This is because spiritual joy is the result of living faith. 

`Read John 14:27 along with Romans 14:17. How is peace related to the work of the Holy Spirit?`

Peace is more lasting than happiness. Peace comes as a result of being “made right with God” by faith in “our Lord Jesus Christ” (Romans 5:1, NIrV). So, the Spirit helps us to be at peace with God. Then the Holy Spirit leads us to be peaceful and patient toward others. And “the God of peace will be with [us]” (Philippians 4:9, NKJV) through the Holy Spirit. Then we will not quarrel with others. We will not want to get revenge. Instead, we will want “if possible, [to] live in peace with everyone” (Romans 12:18, NIrV). 

`Read 2 Peter 3:9. In this verse, how does being patient show us who God is?`

Patience is not seen in many people. Patience means putting up with others. It means putting up with certain situations, even when things do not run smoothly. But even in hard times, we are not alone. God keeps us strong through His Holy Spirit. He builds patience in us. And being patient is a sign in the end time of being a believer (Revelation 14:12). Learning to be patient, then, is a worthy goal. Those who truly try to show patience will learn to be patient. 

`Joy, peace, and patience—how much of this fruit do you experience in your life? Which one of these do you need more of in your life?`


##### DEFINITIONS

4. **patience**—the ability to wait; the desire to be willing to wait.