---
title:  BEING KIND, GOOD, AND FAITHFUL
date:   15/02/2017
---

### BEING KIND, GOOD, AND FAITHFUL

(1 Corinthians 13:4)

`Read 1 Corinthians 13:4. Why do people appreciate true kindness in others? Where do you find God’s kindness in His dealings with people?`

“Kindness” is the word often used to describe what God shows to His people. Kindness also describes what we show to others when they fail. God has every right to be quite harsh with us in dealing with our faults. Instead, He treats us as a loving father would treat a learning child (Hosea 11:1–4). We must remember this, because perhaps nothing destroys the power of our Christian influence and witness more than our being unkind to others. It does not cost money to be kind. But kindness can open the door to the heart of a person. We may need to be very firm when we punish someone or tell this person that he or she is wrong. But we need not become unkind. 

`Read Ephesians 5:9. What, in this verse, goes along with goodness?` 

Goodness is love in action. The goodness that grows in us as the fruit of the Spirit also includes works and acts of goodness. It is shown to others every day in useful works of love. But first the Holy Spirit must live in us. Then goodness will flow out of us to the people we meet every day.

`Read Galatians 5:22. In this verse, why is it important to be faithful in our Christian walk with God? And why is it important for others to be able to trust us?`

The Holy Spirit lives inside us and makes us faithful. Then others feel that they can trust us. Being faithful means being someone others can trust or count on. Those who are faithful do what they promise to do. After all, Jesus was faithful. He is even called “the faithful witness” (Revelation 1:5). And God the Father is faithful. He keeps His promises and is faithful in what He does (1 Corinthians 1:9; 1 Corinthians 10:13; 1 Thessalonians 5:24; 2 Thessalonians 3:3). So, when we are faithful, we show God in our lives. “The great results we achieve are not so important to God. What is important to Him is the reason behind our actions and works. He prizes what is good and faithful in us. He prizes these two things more than He prizes the great result of our work.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 2, pages 510, 511.

##### DEFINITIONS

5. **Testimonies*—the writings of Ellen G. White.