---
title:  BEING GENTLE AND HAVING CONTROL OF ONESELF
date:   16/02/2017
---

### BEING GENTLE AND HAVING CONTROL OF ONESELF

(Matthew 5:5)

`Read Galatians 5:23 and Matthew 5:5. According to these verses, why is it so important for a Christian leader to be gentle or meek?` 

Being gentle or meek does not mean being weak. Being meek does not mean being a coward or being a bad leader. Moses was called the meekest (the most gentle and humble [not proud]) man on earth (Numbers 12:3). And he was a powerful leader of God’s people. We must remember though, that meek people are not loud and noisy. They do not quarrel. They are not selfish or forceful. Instead, they serve in a gentle spirit. In this way, being meek is the outward sign of an inner faith and trust in the power of God working in us. Often, those who are loud, forceful, and seem sure of themselves are covering up their weaknesses and fears.

`Read Galatians 5:23 and Proverbs 16:32. What blessings do we gain if we have control over our lives? What misery comes when we do not control ourselves?`

The last part of the fruit of the Spirit is control over oneself, or self-control. We all need self-control. We all struggle with the need for control in our lives. Before one can rule a city, a community, or a church, one has to be able to control his or her own spirit. True self-control is control not only over food and drink. It is control over every part of life.

Being like Christ in every way is what really counts in the life of a believer. The fruit of the Spirit is the sign that we belong to Christ. It brings all believers together as one in Christ. 

`Think about the parts of your life in which you could have more self-control. Maybe you have control over one part of your life. But you may not have as much control over another part. Control over life comes through the power of God. Why is it important to have this control in every part of your life?`

6. **meek**—not being proud; being humble.