---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   17/02/2017
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

“In today’s language the verses in Galatians 5:22, 23 could be put into the following words: ‘The Fruit of the Spirit is warm-hearted. It is loving. It shines with joy and happiness. It has a calm mind and a humble [not proud] way of speaking and doing things. It is very patient with difficult people and in difficult situations. It shows sympathy to others. It is helpful and generous and shows good judgment. It has a big heart. It is loyal and true. It can be trusted at all times. It forgets self in the joy of helping others. It has self-control in all things. Self-control is the final sign that we have truly become like Christ. All these things show the fruit of the Spirit. We gain the fruit of the Spirit not by our own efforts. We gain it by living in Christ and letting His Spirit live out His life in us. We do not grow fruit by worrying. We grow it by trusting God. It does not grow through our own work. It grows through faith in God.’ ”

—Adapted from S. Chadwick, quoted in Arthur Walkington Pink, The Holy Spirit (Bellingham, Washington: Logos Bible Software, n.d.), chapter 30.

“Do not encourage evil-speaking. Kindly remind the speaker that the Word of God does not allow us to talk that way about others.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Ye [You] Shall Receive Power, page 76.

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`Why, if we are saved by grace (God’s mercy and forgiveness), is victory over sin so important? After all, is not the gospel about forgiving sin? At the same time, think of Judas and who he was. What did the sin of greed do to him? What can we learn from his example that can help us answer the question about the need for victory? Also, how does the following Ellen G. White quote help us to understand our need for victory? “One wrong thought, feeling, or action, one sinful desire held dear in the soul, in the end, will destroy the power of the gospel.”—Adapted from Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, page 53.`

`Why is the fruit of the Spirit more important than any gifts of the Spirit?`

`Read aloud 1 Corinthians 13 in class. Talk about what it means. Why does Paul put such importance on the need for love? How can we learn to love in the way that Paul talks about here? Why is death to self and living in Christ so important to our success in learning to love this way? Why must we die to self and live in Christ in order to love those we truly do not like?`