---
title:  Further Thought
date:  09/10/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Preparation,” pp. 275–282 in Education; “Cooperation,” pp. 283–286 in Education; “Discipline,” pp. 287–297 in Education.

“Upon fathers as well as mothers rests a responsibility for the child’s earlier as well as its later training, and for both parents the demand for careful and thorough preparation is most urgent. Before taking upon themselves the possibilities of fatherhood and motherhood, men and women should become acquainted with the laws of physical development . . .; they should also understand the laws of mental development and moral training.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 276.

“The work of co-operation should begin with the father and mother themselves, in the home life. In the training of their children they have a joint responsibility, and it should be their constant endeavor to act together. Let them yield themselves to God, seeking help from Him to sustain each other. . . . Parents who give this training are not the ones likely to be found criticizing the teacher. They feel that both the interest of their children and justice to the school demand that, so far as possible, they sustain and honor the one who shares their responsibility.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 283.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Whether we have children or not, we all exist in some sort of domicile, and we all interact with others, as well. What have you learned from this week’s lesson that can help you in interacting with, or even witnessing to, others, whether in the place where you live or elsewhere?`

`We tend to view education as a good thing. (After all, who can be against education?) But is this always the case? What might be examples of education’s having been perverted and turned into something bad? What can we learn from those negative examples that could help us make education a good thing?`

`As stated in Wednesday’s study, we all have been given the sacred gift of free will. Sooner or later, when children become young adults or even adults, they will have to make their own decisions regarding the God whom they had been taught about all their young lives. Why must all parents—and anyone, really—who seek to witness to others and to teach others the gospel always keep in mind this crucial truth about free will?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Sons and Daughters of God, "In the Study of Nature," p. 135.

Education, "Discipline," pp. 287-297.