---
title:  He Said What He Said
date:  13/08/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Psalm 33:6–9**

**He Said What He Said**

“Ah, OK,” some might say, “so it’s important to rest and focus on our relationship with God! But what difference does it make whether I do so on Monday or on Thursday?” We answer with a Bible story.

Although he was one of the most powerful men in the most powerful nation of his day, Naaman found himself at the mercy of an incurable disease. Life as he had known it was over until hope sprung fresh through the testimony of his wife’s slave maid. Young as she was, this little slave girl dared to suggest that the God of her enslaved people was greater than the gods of the Syrians, and if Naaman would go to the prophet of the Lord, he could find healing. Naaman was desperate. He went.

Aside from the fact that the prophet Elisha did not even bother to greet Naaman in person, Naaman was appalled by the means through which he was to receive healing. There were clean rivers in Syria, but the prophet told him to dip in the Jordan. Worse still, he had to repeat the procedure seven times!

After dipping into the waters of the Jordan four times, his leprosy fared no better. Five times . . . six times . . . no change. The lesson for Naaman was that when God says “seven,” six won’t do. There was a healing awaiting Naaman, but he could only receive it in full surrender to God’s clear word (2 Kings 5). Heeding exactly what God has said is important if we are to reap the benefits of aligning ourselves with Him.

#### inScribe

Write out Psalm 33:6–9 from the translation of your choice. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `