---
title:  I Promise
date:  14/08/2022
---

#### inGest

The omnipotence of God is in full display in the creation account of Genesis 1. In an almost formulaic narration, each successive element is brought into existence with the phrase “And God said” (Gen. 1:3, 6, 9, 11, 14, 20, 24). No additional action is taken to produce the creation—His word alone brings forth that which it has called out. It needs no help.

In a limited way, our words have creative power too (for more on the power of the tongue, check out the inVerse study guide on the letter of James). We can create a happy atmosphere or a demoralizing one through our words: “The soothing tongue is a tree of life, but a perverse tongue crushes the spirit” (Prov. 15:4, NIV). To a qualified extent, then, our words can create reality. But as powerful as our words may be, they cannot create matter. By contrast, God’s word not only creates matter but defines reality.

When God said, “Let there be,” nature followed the sound of His voice and conformed to the reality His word described. Surely this explains why it is impossible for God to lie (Heb. 6:18), because the moment He says it, it becomes reality. So, when Jesus stood up in that storm-tossed boat and declared, “Peace, be still” (Mark 4:39), His word ordered the reality of the wind and the sea, and peace ensued. One may say that the wind obeyed Christ’s command, but it was not in the same volitional sense of obedience that humanity is called to.

While God’s word has the power in itself to create the reality it describes, He has infused humanity with the freedom of choice to decide whether we accept or reject His reality. What is translated as the “Ten Commandments” would more accurately be the “Ten Words” (eseret ha-devarim; Exod. 34:28). They are not stated in the imperative, but in the Hebrew they read more like promises, for example, “[I promise] you shall have no other gods before Me,” and so on. (The inVerse study guide on the book of Deuteronomy will be a helpful study tool here.) From that perspective, the Ten Commandments simply describe those whom God has redeemed (cf. Eph. 2:10). Accepting God’s redemption (Exod. 20:2) means allowing Him to create in you the person described in the rest of the Ten Words.

Of His word God says, “It shall not return unto Me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it” (Isa. 55:11, KJV). Everything God says of us in Scripture can be our reality if we would accept it by faith. We need not doubt His forgiveness when we repent (1 John 1:9); we need not worry about our basic necessities (Matt. 6:25–34); and we can have confidence in His salvation (Phil. 1:6).

Each Sabbath we celebrate the creative power of God’s word. Every day we have the privilege to submit to that power in our lives through faith.

` `