---
title:  Be Holy
date:  15/08/2022
---

#### inTerpret

On the third day of creation God commands the earth to “bring forth grass, the herb that yields seed, and the fruit tree that yields fruit according to its kind, whose seed is in itself, on the earth” (Gen. 1:11). On the fifth day He commands the seas to “abound with an abundance of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the face of the firmament of the heavens” (Gen. 1:20). On the sixth day He turns once again to the earth to “bring forth the living creature according to its kind: cattle and creeping thing and beast of the earth, each according to its kind” (Gen. 1:24).

For all living things God turns to the earth and the waters to bring them forth. But when it comes to humanity, God turns and speaks to Himself: “Let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness” (Gen. 1:26). In response to His own word, God then stoops to the earth and forms Adam and Eve. Though formed from the dust, humanity, in a unique way, bore the image of God. Just as God is holy (Isa 6:3; 43:15; Rev. 4:8), Adam and Eve bore His resemblance.

As the sixth day of creation drew to a close, God spoke yet again and infused the fabric of the seventh day with the quality that He possesses within Himself. “God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it” (Gen. 2:3). Without God’s sanctification, the seventh day would be like every other day of the week. In fact, if days could boast, the other days of the week could claim superiority over the seventh because God created something tangible that contributes to the functioning of the earth on those days. On the seventh day, they could argue, God made nothing. It would appear the most inferior of days.

From the least of the days of creation, the Sabbath rises to preeminence because of God’s word concerning it. What makes the Sabbath holy is that God declared it to be thus. It is holy because God’s word said so.

When humanity lost its standing after the fall and the image of God was marred, Christ took upon Himself the task of restoring God’s image in humanity. It is to this end that He came to present a clear picture of God, that as we behold Him in the beauty of holiness, we would be transformed into His likeness (2 Cor. 3:18). “But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation; Because it is written, Be ye holy; for I am holy (1 Pet. 1:15, 16, KJV). When we receive it in faith, God’s word that calls us to be holy is the very word that makes us holy. As it is with the Sabbath, so it is with us.

` `