---
title:  Relighting the Flame
date:  17/08/2022
---

#### inVite

During creation week, God made various life forms: vegetation on day three, marine and avian life on day five, and animal and human life on day six. As the source of life, God is represented wherever there is life. This makes the denial of God’s presence an enormously difficult task—an impossible task! Life is self-existent only in God, because “in Him was life, and the life was the light of men” (John 1:4). Ellen White writes, “The Lord has given His life to the trees and vines of His creation.” (Francis D. Nichol et al, eds., Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol 1 (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1953), 1081.) She also states, “Without the life of God, nature would die.” (Nichol et al, 1081.)

Remarkably, the Creator imparted life via the spoken word. Speaking of the angels and other beings that inhabit the heavens, the psalmist declares, “By the word of the Lord were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. . . . For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast” (Ps. 33:6, 9, KJV). In this connection, Ellen White explains that “Christ was the Son of God; He had been one with Him before the angels were called into existence.” (White, Patriarchs and Prophets, 38.) It was all done by the spoken word, by the spoken command!

The entrance of sin included the entrance of death because “as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men” (Rom. 5:12, KJV). And, “The soul that sinneth, it shall die” (Ezek. 18:20, KJV). God had clearly warned Adam that “in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die” (Gen. 2:17, KJV). As surely as the word guaranteed life for obedience, so surely it guaranteed death for disobedience. The doleful litany of Genesis 5, “and he died,” sustains the accuracy of God’s warning. Ellen White notes that “the law reveals to man his sins, but it provides no remedy. While it promises life to the obedient, it declares that death is the portion of the transgressor.” (Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1950), 467, 468.)

God’s original plan was life without end, but death threatened to put a permanent end to life. “God is the life-giver. From the beginning all His laws were ordained to life. But sin broke in upon the order that God had established, and discord followed. So long as sin exists, suffering and death are inevitable.” (White, Patriarchs and Prophets, 522.) Through the sacrifice of His Son, God provided a justification for the renewal of life. This will occur by the spoken word just as original life on earth came by the spoken word. “For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first” (1 Thess. 4:16, KJV).

Sabbath-keeping should be a celebration of the life-giving Creator who commanded, and it stood fast. With that same command voice, He will once again command. This time, life will last forever.

` `