---
title:  Wisdom and Reason
date:  13/04/2020
---

#### inTerpret

In addition to the three ways mentioned by Ellen White, the Bible mentions two more sources of God’s will. Proverbs 15:22 places wisdom in the multitude of counselors. Guidance can be acquired by those who have previously been guided. Wisdom can be acquired by those who have wisdom. The Bible has many narratives in which mentors, prophets, leaders, and other people have been consulted for the will of God.

Before making a large life decision, it is wise to find mentors who have been and are led by God. Preferably these individuals should have three types of knowledge. First, they should know as well as follow the principles of Scripture and the writings of the Spirit of Prophecy. Though we all should be studying the Bible, interacting with people who know the Bible more will help expand our exposure and make its application more practical. As obedient observers of Scripture, they give counsel that is authentic, tried, and true.

Second, they should know who you are and have your best interests in mind. They should be familiar with your values, vision, life goals, history, individual character, and experience. In short, they should love you.

Third, they should have some life experience. Perhaps this is why many wise individuals are older, in that they have experienced mistakes, failure, success, and so on. Since they have already done much before, guided by the Holy Spirit and Scripture, they can share how to avoid trouble or face life’s difficult decisions.

Besides the counsel of the wise, the Bible also places value on reason. Isaiah 1:18 states, “ ‘Come now, and let us reason together,’ says the LORD, ‘though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.’ ” Reason is a God-given component of the human mind. Decisions should be reasonable to some degree. Yes, God does at times do supernatural and extraordinary things, but there is still some form of reason to it. He’s trying to get a point across. He never does something that is totally nonsensical or absurd and pointless. Rather, we can use our reason and common sense to apply biblical principles in the context of our individual case. For example, we are to keep the Sabbath, but God does not dictate how we should keep the Sabbath with a minute-by-minute itinerary.

``