---
title:  When He Doesn't Answer
date:  15/04/2020
---

#### inVite

There are times when, after prayer, God simply doesn’t answer. This is not a revelation of His indifference or His non-existence. For whatever reason, there may not be a response to our request. At these times, we are to apply the principles aforementioned, where through reason, counselors, impressions, circumstances, and the writings of the Spirit of Prophecy, the biblical precedent is sought after.

But even with this diligence, study, and prayer-filled time, there are moments when you can choose between several good options. This reveals not the indifference of God but His gift of free will and choice. At the end of the day, after ruling out all the unbiblical alternatives, there are opportunities when we get to choose.

This also reveals that God is not a system or some impersonal force. When we follow some formula, enact some ritual, or push some buttons on a machine, we shouldn’t expect a celestial candy bar to fall out of the sky. The Holy Spirit is a person, just as much as God the Father and God the Son. With the characteristics of life (2 Cor. 3:3), intelligence (Is. 40:13), freedom (1 Cor. 12:11), knowledge, and emotion, He interacts with us as a real-time person with a real-time person. There are moments when there is clearly only one choice; and there may be moments when we get to choose from more than one.

This reveals that the Holy Spirit is the Author of Scripture (2 Peter 1:20, 21; 2 Samuel 23:1, 2; John 14:16, 17, 26; 16:13, 26, 27). We can have confidence that after the biblical filter and no further information on God’s end, that we can make a biblically informed choice. Though we may be insecure about possibly choosing the second-best choice, knowing that God has authored the Bible gives us confidence that God will allow the best results from whatever choice we made, knowing we made it prayerfully and obediently.

This reveals that the Holy Spirit is a convicter of truth. Knowing that we diligently searched the Scriptures and applied the principles of God’s will to making our decisions, we are acknowledging Him as God and the Spirit as the convicter—or main decider—within our convictions for our decisions.

This reveals that Christ is our Lord and King. Jesus was led by the Spirit (Matt. 4:1; Mark 1:12; Luke 4:1). This means that He was living an obedient life and following the will of His Father. As we follow the Spirit, we are acknowledging the One who sent the Spirit, and His Father, the One who placed Him on the throne.

``