---
title:  The Good News That Always Will Be True
date:   02/03/2019
---

_God wants everyone to be saved. The question will be: Who will accept God’s gift, and who will not?_

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Revelation 14:6, 7, 8; Exodus 20:2–11; Revelation 14:10, 11, 12; Isaiah 34:8–10; Jude 7.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “God’s people need to be very patient. They are the ones who obey God’s com­ mands. And they remain [stay] faithful [loyal] to Jesus” (Revelation 14:12, NIrV).

**THE BOOK OF REVELATION** shows us that Satan’s end-time lie will be a big success. It will cause many humans to choose to worship the wild sea-animal power and get its mark. But Revelation 14:1–5 tell us that God will have a small group of people on the earth who are loyal to Him at the end time. In the end, people must choose who they will worship. The people who worship the wild sea-animal power will get a mark on their foreheads or right hands. This mark is not something that we can see. It is a word picture for the choice that people make with their minds and hearts to serve this religious government. At the same time, the people on earth see the Good News preached with power. The last time anyone preached the Good News with this much power was the time when God poured His Spirit on the New Testament church. After God’s people preach the Good News to people everywhere, God pours out His Seven Last Troubles on the evil people on earth. But first, God sends warnings to everyone. Satan’s tricks happen everywhere. So, God’s people preach every- where, too. They announce the Good News that Jesus died for all humans. God wants everyone to be saved. The question will be: Who will accept God’s gift, and who will not?