---
title:  The Three Angels’ Messages
date:   03/03/2019
---

_The Three Angels in Revelation are word pic­ tures that show us God’s people and the end­time message He gives them to share with everyone on the earth._

Just before the end of this earth’s history, God will send warnings to everyone on earth. The Bible shows us these warnings as three angels flying in the sky. The three flying angels will shout their warnings to everyone on earth. The Greek word for angel is “angelos [än’-ge-los].” This word means “messenger.” The Three Angels are word pictures that show us God’s people and the end-time messages He gives them to share with everyone on the earth.

`Read Revelation 14:6 and then read Matthew 24:14. John writes the 1st Angel’s Message the “good news that will always be true” (Revelation 14:6, NIrV). What does this name show us that the 1st Angel’s Message is about and the reason that God sends it to everyone on Planet Earth? Why is this message important to every­ thing that we believe?`

The 1st Angel’s Message is an end-time message. This message is good news about God, who saves humans because of everything that Jesus did for them. The 1st Angel’s Message is the Good News that continues forever because God never changes. God made this plan to save us before He made us (2 Timothy 1:9; Titus 1:2).

Everyone must pay attention to these Three Angels’ Messages because they are about everlasting life. That is why God commands His people to preach these messages to all the people living on the earth. At the same time, the wild sea-animal power will use the power it got from Satan to control the people living on the earth (Revelation 13:7). Satan’s end-time tricks and lies happen worldwide. But God’s end-time messages fill the whole earth too.

God’s people preach the Three Angels’ Messages to stop the work done by Satan and his end-time team of three evil powers: (1) the dragon (a symbol for false religions and the belief that dead people communicate with the living); (2) the wild sea-animal power (a symbol for the Roman Catholic Church); and (3) the false prophet (a symbol for Protestant churches that turn away from Bible truth). These three powers will work with Satan until the 6th Last Trouble is over. Before God pours out His Seven Last Troubles, everyone on earth will learn about these two different messages. God will use one message and Satan will use another message to win the hearts and minds of humans.