---
title:  "The 1st Angel’S Message: Part 1"
date:   04/03/2019
---

_When we understand what Jesus did to save us, we will honor God with love and respect._

`Read Revelation 14:7 and then read Ecclesiastes 12:13, 14.These verses talk about what it means to “ ‘Honor God with love and fear’ ” (Revelation 14:7, NLV). What does it mean to “ ‘fear God’ ” (ERV)? How is this idea about fear­ ing God connected with the Good News about Jesus? What is the connection between the Good News and obeying God’s law? (Also read Romans 7:7–13 for a hint.) What is the connection between our honoring God and praising Him?`

The 1st Angel tells everyone on earth to “ ‘honor God with love and fear [respect]’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). The 1st Angel who makes this announcement also carries the Good News. This word picture about the angel with the Good News shows us something important. When we understand what Jesus did to save us, we will honor God with love and respect.

The Bible shows us that our giving God glory is connected with respecting God (Psalm 22:23; Revelation 15:4). When we respect God, we show that we obey Him and His law (Job 1:8). When we give God glory, we show that we thank Him for saving us and helping us obey Him.

What does it mean to fear, or respect, God? Does it mean that we are afraid of Him? Not at all! It means that we trust Him and put Him first in our lives. God’s end-time people respect God (Revelation 11:18; Revelation 19:5). The person who respects God gives Him honor by obeying Him (Deuteronomy 5:29; Ecclesiastes 12:13; Genesis 22:12).

Why must we honor God and give Him praise? Because it is now time for God to do His work as Judge (Revelation 14:7). God will judge His people before the Second Coming to make clear to everyone on earth and in heaven that we choose to serve God. Our actions and works show our choices.At the end of God’s work as our Judge, the choice of every person will be made clear (Revelation 22:11). Then Jesus will come to give everyone a reward for the good or bad things he or she did on this earth (Revelation 22:12).

Revelation 14 teaches us that God’s work as our Judge is part of the Good News. God’s work as Judge is Good News to people who accept God’s gift to save them. But God’s work as Judge is bad news for people who do not obey God. The 1st Angel’s Message announces to everyone on earth that it is time for them to turn to God and away from sin. God sends this message to everyone on earth because He does not want anyone to miss out on living with Him forever.