---
title:  "The 1st Angel’S Message: Part 2"
date:   05/03/2019
---

The 1st Angel’s Message shows us that God will command people in the end time to worship the God who made them and to put Him first in their lives.

The book of Revelation shows us that worship and obey- ing God’s law will be the two most important tests in the end time (Revelation 14:12). The people on the earth will choose to belong to one of two groups: (1) the group that worships God and obeys His law or (2) the group who fears the wild sea-animal power and worships it.

Read commandments #1–4 of God’s law (Exodus 20:2–11). Then read about the things that the wild sea­animal power and the wild land­animal power do in Revelation 13: (1) during the Middle Ages, the wild sea­animal power forces people to worship it (Revelation 13:7, 8). (2) In the end times, the wild land­animal power forces everyone to obey a law that honors the wild sea­animal power (Revelation 13:14, 15). (3) The wild sea animal speaks against God and His Name (Revelation 13:5, 6). (4) The wild land­animal power forces people to get the wild sea animal’s mark. This mark is the special proof of his power (Revelation 13:16, 17). How do these four actions show us Satan’s attacks at the end time on commandments #1–4 of God’s law?

Commandments #1–4 of God’s law are about worship. The book of Revelation shows us that these four command- ments will become the test of loyalty to God in the end time. The last war between Jesus and Satan will be about worship and the first four commandments.

The 1st Angel’s Message has two parts. The second part shows us the most important test for people living on the earth at the end time. The angel asks everyone to “ ‘Worship God. He made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs [the plac- es where water comes out of the earth] of water’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). This command uses the same words used in the 4th commandment (Exodus 20:11). These same words in both verses show us that there is a connection between keeping the Sabbath and worshiping God as the One who made us.

God’s law and the Bible show us that true worship includes honoring God on the Sabbath. The 7th-day Sabbath is spe- cial proof of our connection with God (Exodus 31:13; Ezekiel 20:12). The 1st Angel’s Message tells people to worship the God who made them and to put Him first in their lives. Keeping the seventh-day Sabbath will be a big part of that message.