---
title:  The 2nd Angel’S Message
date:   06/03/2019
---

_Babylon’s wine is a word picture for false teachings._

The 1st Angel’s Message tells people to worship the true God. The 2nd Angel’s Message announces Babylon’s fall. Babylon was an Old Testament city. In Revelation, Babylon is a word picture for three things: (1) Babylon is a word picture for any false religion. (2) In Revelation 14, Babylon is a word picture for end-time Protestant churches who turn away from Bible truth in the same way that the Roman Catholic Church did in the Middle Ages. (3) In Revelation 17, Babylon is a word picture for the Roman Catholic Church itself. Revelation 17:5 says, “Babylon is the mother of prostitutes. [A female prostitute is a woman who has sex with anyone for money]. By this example, we see that Babylon’s daughters are word pictures for Protestant churches who behave the same as Babylon [the Roman Catholic Church]. These Protestant churches refuse to stop believing Babylon’s false teachings. The churches follow Babylon’s example: they give up Bible truth so that they can work with the kings on this earth.”— Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 382, 383, adapted.

`In Revelation 14:8, John writes the word “ ‘fallen’ ” (NLV) twice. The words “ ‘fallen! . . . fallen!’ ” tell us that Babylon turns away fully from Bible truth. She causes all the coun­ tries on the earth to turn away from God, too, by drinking her “wine.” Babylon’s wine is a word picture for false teachings. But why does John say that Babylon is fall­ en now when that fall cannot happen fully until Babylon makes all countries on earth drink her “wine” first?`

John says Babylon is fallen now to show us we can trust the 2nd Angel’s warning that the Protestant churches will turn away fully from God in the future. But when? In The Great Controversy, Ellen G. White says that when “the Protestant churches [Babylon] join fully with this earth’s leaders, then her fall will happen.”—Page 390, adapted.

Revelation 17:2 and 18:3 show us that many Protestant churches will drink Babylon’s “wine” and turn away from Bible truth in the end times. We see that happening today as many Protestant churches turn away from the beliefs that separate them from the Roman Catholic Church. The Roman Catholic Church makes people “drunk” with her false teachings so that they will worship her power and not God.