---
title:  The 3rd Angel’S Message
date:   07/03/2019
---

_The rising smoke does not mean that the bodies of God’s enemies will burn forever. It means that when they are destroyed, they will be destroyed forever and never come back to life again._

`What does Revelation 14:12 tell us about God’s loyal people?`

The people in Revelation 14:12 are very different from the people in Revelation 14:9, 10 who follow the wild sea-animal power. John warns us about what happens to the people who leave God. They will experience God’s full and deep anger. The Old Testament uses the word picture of a cup of wine poured out to show us the time when God will judge all people. At that time, the full strength of God’s anger will be poured on the evil people on earth who choose to worship the wild sea animal. God will “pour” on them His anger the same as strong and sour wine that is not mixed with any water. In Bible times, people often mixed wine with water to make it taste less strong. The wine in Revelation 14:10 that is not mixed with water is a word picture. It shows the full strength of God’s anger against sin when His anger is not mixed with mercy (Psalm 75:8).

`In Revelation 14:10, 11, John explains what will happen to the wild sea animal’s followers. Revelation 14:11 says, “ ‘The smoke from their burning pain will rise forever and ever’ ” (ERV). How do Isaiah 34:8–10 and Jude 7 help us to understand what John means in Revelation 14:11?`

John tells us that God will burn the wild sea animal’s followers in the lake of fire. This word picture shows us that these people will not live again. They will burn up until there is nothing left. God uses fire as a punishment when He judges people who have done terrible evil (Genesis 19:24; Isaiah 34:8–10). Smoke is a well-known word picture in the Bible. Both Isaiah and Jude use smoke as a word picture to show us that the cities of Edom and Sodom were destroyed fully. These cities are not burning today. This fact shows us that the end of these two cities is everlasting. In the same way, the smoke that rises forever from the burning bodies of the wild sea animal’s followers is a word picture. The rising smoke does not mean that the bodies of God’s ene- mies burn forever. It means that when they are destroyed, they will be destroyed forever and never come back to life again. They will burn only long enough to make sure there is nothing left to burn.