---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   08/03/2019
---

_“God’s people . . . plant the seed of truth in the hearts of other people. That seed will grow into a plant that will make fruit.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [world- wide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 612, adapted._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: “Read Ellen G. White, “The Final Warning,” pages 603–612, in The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan].

The book of Revelation shows us that God commands His people to announce to everyone on earth the Good News about Jesus for the end times. This work seems very hard to do. Maybe it even seems to us that this work is not possible to do. But we have God’s promise that He will give us His power to help us.

God gave His followers the work of announcing the Good News to everyone on earth. “God’s power will be as strong at the end of this work as it was when it first started. . . .

“God’s people will help other souls accept the Good News. Where does their success come from? Are God’s people a success because they are good with words? No. Their success comes from the Holy Spirit. His power carries the message into people’s hearts. The Spirit convinces them that the message is true. God’s people show why the Good News about Jesus is true. They plant the seed of truth in the hearts of other people. That seed will grow into a plant that will make fruit.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], pages 611, 612, adapted.

God’s people will tell everyone on earth about God’s last message. That message will cause a big separation that will divide all the people living on the earth into two groups: (1) the people who follow God and (2) the people who choose to follow the wild sea animal. The Bible uses the word pictures of two harvests. A harvest is the time during the year when farm- ers collect the food from the crops that grew on their farms. The word picture of the harvest shows us the separation that God’s last message causes: (1) the wheat (God’s people) is collected into the storehouses (Revelation 14:14–16) and (2) the wine grapes (Satan’s followers) are collected and put into the winepress where they will be mashed (Revelation 14:17– 20). Revelation 17 and 18 tell us about these things.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Seventh-day Adventists are the only ones preaching the Three Angels’ Messages. Why does this fact tell us that our work is important?`

`2. What is important about the Sabbath in the end times, and why?`