---
title:  Can’t We All Just Get Along?
date:  08/12/2018
---

**Introduction**: Rev. 14:7; John 4:22–24; Hab. 2:20

After a big argument or Facebook debate there is an unavoidable sentiment that lingers or is even stated audibly from a bystander who says, “Can’t we all just get along?” As we millennials like to say, let’s be real and get to the fundamental questions to be answered: How can we be united to finish the work when we have issues of disunity based on culture, worship styles, instruments, and other preferences? And is there any hope for us to be united when we have conflicts?

One direct answer is found in the first angel’s message as a two-step process. In this initial message, we find the everlasting gospel going all over the earth with the same message proclaimed: “ ‘Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come; and worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water’ ” (Rev. 14:7, NKJV). We see the everlasting gospel going out loudly and clearly.

First, to unite, we need to have and proclaim the everlasting gospel loudly. If we do not possess the message and proceed to have a shouting match between different messages, this will not bring unity; it will bring meaninglessness, discord, and confusion.

Second, we must worship together for unity to happen. Unity is seen when we worship together toward our Creator God. So then, how and where do we worship Him? The how is answered by Jesus in John 4:22–24, speaking to the woman at the well: “ ‘You worship what you do not know; we know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. . . . The true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth; for the Father is seeking such to worship Him’ ” (NKJV). We need to worship in spirit and truth.

The where is found in Habakkuk 2:20, “ ‘The Lord is in His holy temple. Let all the earth keep silence before Him.’ ” We ought to be in church to worship together. Through this week’s lesson we will unfold more principles and ways to unite through worship!

---

_Larry Sendow, Tampin, Malaysia_