---
title: Set Apart for Unity 
date:  10/12/2018
---

**Testimony**: Acts 2:47; Eph. 4:3–5

“The first angel’s message of Revelation 14, announcing the hour of God’s Judgment, and calling upon men to fear and worship Him, was designed to separate the professed people of God from the corrupting influences of the world, and to arouse them to see their true condition of worldliness and backsliding. In this message, God had sent to the church a warning, which, had it been accepted, would have corrected the evils that were shutting them away from Him. Had they received the message from Heaven, humbling their hearts before the Lord, and seeking in sincerity a preparation to stand in His presence, the Spirit and power of God would have been manifested among them.

The church would again have reached that blessed state of unity, faith, and love, which existed in apostolic days, when the believers were of ‘one heart and of one soul,’ and ‘spake the word of God with boldness,’ when ‘the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved.’ Acts 4:32, 31; 2:47.

“If God’s professed people would receive the light as it shines upon them from His Word, they would reach that unity for which Christ prayed, that which the apostle describes, ‘the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.’ ‘There is,’ he says, ‘one body, and one Spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling; one Lord, one faith, one baptism.’ Ephesians 4:3-5.”1

“What is it that causes dissension and discord? It is the result of walking apart from Christ. At a distance from Him, we lose our love for Him, and grow cold toward His followers. The farther the beams of light recede from their center, the wider separated they become. Each believer is as a beam of light from Christ the Sun of righteousness. The more closely we walk with Christ, the center of all love and light, the greater will be our affection for His light-bearers. When the saints are drawn close to Christ, they must of necessity be drawn close to each other, for the sanctifying grace of Christ will bind their hearts together. You cannot love God and yet fail to love your brethren.”2

**React**

`1. Uniformity is usually mistaken for unity. What attitude should you cultivate to be united in Christ and yet celebrate diversity in one body?`

`2. If correct understanding of the Scriptures and nearness to Christ are necessary for unity in worship, what practical steps should you be taking?`

`3. Is church unity an end in itself or a crucial precursor to the successful mission? Discuss.`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 379 (emphasis in the original). 2. Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, vol. 15, pp. 88, 89.</sup>

_S. Kiran Koya, Detroit, Michigan, USA_