---
title:  More Than a Song
date:  11/12/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 17:10, 11

Worship consists of many different components and can take many forms, but it is often reduced to singing. Worshiping God includes recognizing His attributes (Rev. 4:8), acknowledging what He has done for us (Rev. 5:9, 10), and giving Him glory and honor (Rev. 4:11; 5:13). As such, we worship God by studying His Word in order to get to know Him and be able to discern His attributes, praying prayers of thanksgiving, recognizing how He is working in our lives, and singing of His goodness and lifting Him up. The word translated worship that is used in Revelation is the word proskuneo, which means “to pay homage, show reverence, or to kneel down before.” Although singing can contain attributes of worship and worship is often expressed through song, worship must consist of much more than that.

In Acts 17, Luke briefly mentions the Bereans, a group of people that is often commended in churches for their diligent Bible study. What we know about them comes from just two verses, but we see that they were open and eager to receiving the Word and at the same time diligent in their study of the Scriptures, making sure any new teachings were in line with the God they had come to know.

Acts 17:11 says that “they received the word with all readiness of mind, and searched the scriptures daily.” Unlike some of the Jews in Thessalonica, the Bereans were ready and open to new revelations but not accepting them naïvely. How often do we fall into the trap of taking the preacher’s word at face value without bothering to go directly to God’s Word for verification and reinforcement, coming to a personal understanding of who God is? This personal understanding of God forms the basis of our worship. We cannot truly worship God without knowing what He is like, having an unquenchable desire to seek Him out, and in response, spending consistent quality time with Him through prayer and the study of His Word. As Ross King writes, I “can sing all I want to and still get it wrong. Worship is more than a song.”1

**React**

`1. What are some other ways we can worship God besides prayer, Bible study, and singing?`

`2. What is your own personal “song” of praise, the one that no one else can sing, not even the angels in heaven, only you? One that expresses your daily life, your purpose, and personal experiences?`

---

<sup>1. Ross King, “Clear the Stage,” . . . And All the Decorations, Too, Ross King Music, 2002.</sup>

_Isaí Almeida McGrath, Cedar Springs, Michigan, USA_