---
title:  The Worship Equation
date:  12/12/2018
---

**How-to**: Rev. 14:6–11

Before His ascension, Jesus prayed for His followers to be unified (John 17:11, 21–23). As Christ’s disciples, we may be tempted to try to concoct a facade of unity. We may even be tempted to think that unity is, in and of itself, proof that we are Christ’s disciples.

Moreover, we narrowly view worship as the hour or two spent at church once a week or, worse still, as music that has lyrics related to spiritual things. Unity in worship would then translate to uniformity in the order of church service or in the musical instruments used. But is unity really achieved when we robotically act the same?

United in falsehood: while unity is an admirable trait, the story of the Tower of Babel illustrates that it is possible to be united with a common goal that is anti-God (Gen. 11:1–9). The presence of unity, then, is not equivalent to holiness. We can be united in unholy, false worship.

E lements of worship. The worship we are called to in Revelation 14:6–11 comprises two elements: (1) whom you worship (verses 6, 7) and (2) how you worship (verses 9–11). As an equation, this would read: worship = whom you worship + how you worship. We are called to worship the Creator God “that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters” (verse 7) “in spirit and in truth” (John 4:24) with our thoughts and actions (i.e., “in his forehead, or in his hand” [Rev. 14:9]).

Just one true worship. There are as many false permutations of the worship equation as there are variations of the terms. For instance, you could know who the true God is but not worship Him correctly (cf. Mal. 1:6–8). He has instructed us in Scripture how to worship Him. On the other hand, there are many false gods, and the only way to know the true God is from the Scripture. Biblical unity in worship. The goal, then, cannot be mere unity in worship. We should seek to unite in worshiping the true God in the way He has asked us to as revealed in His Word. A group of people who come together to study the Bible in a spirit of humility, willing to renounce anything contrary to His Word, is sure to experience Pentecostal unity (cf. Acts 2:1).

**React**

`1. Can you unite in worship with someone you theologically disagree with?`

`2. How do you know when you’ve crossed the line from unity to uniformity?`

---

_Archie Daco, Laurel, Maryland, USA_