---
title:  Separated to Unite
date:  13/12/2018
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 14:7

When it comes to relationships, healthy compromise isn’t only a good thing . . . it’s a necessity! Think about it. Without being willing to give up preferences and opinions, most couples would never agree on their kitchen countertop color or the name of their next child. But while compromises on preferences are essential, there is a compromise that is never safe for the Christian—compromise of principle. Standing firm for the truths of God’s Word was literally what led the three Hebrews into the fiery furnace, Daniel into the lions’ den, and millions of Christians into the fires of persecution. Summarizing this loving but firm stance, Martin Luther said, “Peace if possible, truth at all costs.” Luther not only recognized that truth was worth being divided over but that by its very nature truth separates.

Jesus Himself, the living embodiment of the truth, said that He “came not to bring peace, but a sword” (Matt. 10:34, NLT). He foresaw family members being divided over the Truth—by their own decisions to accept or reject Him and His teachings. While God is a God of unity, He is also a God of separation. At Creation, on three of the six days we find God dividing for the sake of order and life (Gen. 1:4, 6, 14). And when God re-creates us at conversion, He separates us from our unhealthy hobbies or friends, in order to grow us in Him. God separates . . . but in order to unite.

At the end of time, once again God divides to unite. Through His truth He separates His children from the world—separates us from compromised Christianity—in order to unite us to each other and to Himself. Meanwhile, through a truth-compromised unity, Satan will manage to gain worship for himself: “And all the world marveled and followed the beast. So they worshiped the dragon” (Rev. 13:3, 4, NKJV; emphasis added). So the Creator’s last message of invitation and warning goes to every corner of the planet— “Fear God and give glory to Him . . . and worship Him!” (Rev. 14:7, NKJV; emphasis added). “Don’t worship the beast or his image!” (see verse 9). Both groups will be united in worship—but only one will be united in the truth.

**React**

`1. What are some things in your life that you’re not willing to compromise for the sake of peace or unity?`

`2. What are some ways you find God giving you opportunities to stand for principle in your day-to-day interactions?`

---

_Justin Torossian, Exeter, California, USA_