---
title:  Bind Us Together
date:  14/12/2018
---

**Exploration**: Acts 4:23–31

**Conclude**

In Acts 4:23–31 we see the disciples coming together to pray in earnest. After this united prayer the Holy Spirit descended in power! We see unity in that interaction, and we see something deeper. We are not to unite for the sake of unity and fellowship; we unite because it is vital in the work that we seek to do as Christians. To proclaim the good news of Christ, His love, and His soon return we must pray and work together as never before. It is also important that we keep Christ as the basis of our unity and fellowship. Through studying the Scriptures and praying we can have daily experiences with Christ, individually and as a church, in a powerful way that will change the communities we are in and change the world. And as we experience unity and relationship with Christ, we can experience unity and relationships in the church.

**Consider**

- Planning a dinner and Bible study where you invite members of your youth group or church community, ensuring that prayer is central to your gathering.
- Making an art piece about the power of fellowship and prayer and sharing it with a friend or family member. Be creative and use whatever medium you would like.
- Meditating on ways that you can personally increase godly fellowship and unity in your church and journaling about them and, then, searching for ways to implement those ideas.
- Going back and reading the Bible verses and stories from this week, and as you do so, analyze and write down the components needed for unity in worship and fellowship.
- With a group of friends, designing a skit based on the lesson to perform at your church or youth group.
- Composing a poem, in any form you would like, speaking about the importance of fellowship and how that strengthens unity in the church.
- Assembling a group from your church to develop prayer partners. Pray together regularly, and meet together socially to share a meal with your prayer partner from time to time.


**Connect**

Acts 1:14; 2:42; 12:12; Philippians 2:2; 1 Peter 2:5.

Ellen G. White, Christian Experience and Teachings of Ellen G. White, “Unity in Faith and Doctrine,” pp. 192–195; The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 2, “The Training of the Twelve.”

---

_Kiana Alexander, Grand Blanc, Michigan, USA_