---
title:  'Paul: Imprisoned Apostle to the Gentiles'
date:  30/07/2023
---

`Read Ephesians 3. As you do so, identify one or two main themes. What major points does Paul make?`

Ephesians 3 displays an interesting structure. Paul begins the chapter with these words: “For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for you Gentiles” (Eph. 3:1, NKJV). Then, he breaks off for what turns out to be a lengthy digression focused on his work as apostle to the Gentiles (Eph. 3:2–13). After the aside, he signals a return to his original train of thought by repeating the phrase “For this reason” (Eph. 3:14, NKJV), with verses 14–21 providing his interrupted prayer report.

In Ephesians 3:1, Paul identifies himself as “the prisoner of Christ Jesus” (NKJV), his way of arguing that though he may reside in Roman captivity and appear to be under the authority of the Roman Empire, there is a deeper, divine purpose being worked out in his life. He is not the prisoner of Rome but “the prisoner of Christ Jesus”! (compare Eph. 4:1).

Paul’s mention of his “suffering” (Eph. 3:13, ESV), and his later mention of his chains (Eph. 6:20, ESV), suggest that he is not under relatively comfortable house arrest (compare Acts 28:16) but is in prison. Being in prison in the first century and in a Roman dungeon was especially challenging. The Roman Empire did not run well-organized prisons with sanitary facilities and regular meal service. In fact, the empire had little need for prisons since incarceration was not used as a means of punishment. People were placed in prison only while they awaited trial or execution. Prisoners were expected to provide for themselves and were dependent on relatives and friends to supply food and other needs.

Paul’s worries perhaps center on the emotional impact of his imprisonment on believers, since being a prisoner was an extreme social disgrace in the context of an honor-shame culture. He might fear that some will ask, “How can Paul be the apostle and messenger of the exalted Christ and be a despised prisoner?” So, he reframes his imprisonment, helping believers to see it as part of God’s plan. He is suffering for them (“suffering for you,” ESV), and what appears to be a source of shame will in fact turn out to be for their “glory” (Eph. 3:13).

`How can we learn to trust God and His ways amid what can be very trying circumstances?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“The love of Christ,” said Paul, “constraineth us.” It was the actuating principle of his conduct; it was his motive power. If ever his ardor in the path of duty for a moment flagged, one glance at the cross and the amazing love of Christ revealed in His unparalleled sacrifice was enough to cause him to gird up anew the loins of his mind and press forward in the path of self-denial. In his labors for his brethren he relied much upon the exhibition of infinite love in the wonderful condescension of Christ, with all its subduing, constraining power.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4, p. 457.

It is not the will of God that His people should be weighed down with care. But our Lord does not deceive us. He does not say to us, “Do not fear; there are no dangers in your path.” He knows there are trials and dangers, and He deals with us plainly. He does not propose to take His people out of a world of sin and evil, but He points them to a never-failing refuge. His prayer for His disciples was, “I pray not that Thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that Thou shouldest keep them from the evil.” “In the world,” He says, “ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.” John 17:15; 16:33.\
In His Sermon on the Mount, Christ taught His disciples precious lessons in regard to the necessity of trusting in God. These lessons were designed to encourage the children of God through all ages, and they have come down to our time full of instruction and comfort. . . .\
The Lord would have all His sons and daughters happy, peaceful, and obedient. Jesus says, “My peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.” “These things have I spoken unto you, that My joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full.” John 14:27; 15:11.—Steps to Christ, pp. 122, 124.

God never leads His children otherwise than they would choose to be led, if they could see the end from the beginning, and discern the glory of the purpose which they are fulfilling as co-workers with Him. Not Enoch, who was translated to heaven, not Elijah, who ascended in a chariot of fire, was greater or more honored than John the Baptist, who perished alone in the dungeon. “Unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on Him, but also to suffer for His sake.” Philippians 1:29. And of all the gifts that Heaven can bestow upon men, fellowship with Christ in His sufferings is the most weighty trust and the highest honor.—The Desire of Ages, p. 224.