---
title:  The Long-Hidden Mystery of the Gospel
date:  31/07/2023
---

`What is the mystery that has been entrusted to Paul? Eph. 3:1–6.`

As you study Ephesians 3:1–6, note the following:

First, Paul writes this part of the letter specifically to Gentile believers in the house churches of Ephesus (Eph. 3:1).

Second, Paul claims to be the recipient of something he labels “the stewardship of God’s grace,” given to him “for you,” for Gentile believers (Eph. 3:2, ESV). This stewardship, or this ministry of grace, is Paul’s way of describing the commission given to him to preach the gospel (“God’s grace”) to the Gentiles (compare Eph. 3:7, 8, ESV).

Third, Paul claims that a mystery has been revealed to him, a topic he has already written about in the letter (see especially Eph. 1:9, 10; Eph. 2:11–22), the “mystery of Christ” (Eph. 3:3, 4). Paul does not wish to be understood as the inventor of the gospel, but he does lay claim to a God-given ministry to proclaim it.

Fourth, Paul is not alone in having received advanced revelation about this _mystery,_ as the Spirit has also revealed it to Christ’s “holy apostles and prophets” in a way that surpasses the revelation of God’s plan to earlier generations (Eph. 3:5). The term _prophets_ here probably refers to those possessing and exercising the gift of prophecy among early Christian house churches rather than the prophets of the Old Testament. The _mystery,_ which was once hidden, has now become what we might call an “open secret.”

Finally, he declares: “This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel” (Eph. 3:6, ESV).

Paul is passionate about the gospel and especially about the way it is expressed in the church, which is composed of both Jews and Gentiles. These two groups have become the building blocks of God’s new community, His new brand of humanity, the church (see Eph. 2:14–16). We could say they are now transformed from being enemies to being “co-heirs,” “co-bodied” (included in a single body, the body of Christ), and “co-partakers” of the gospel promise (see Eph. 3:6).

`What, if any, attitudes, maybe even below the surface, might you hold that contradict the inclusiveness taught by the gospel? How do you rid yourself of these?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Paul’s heart burned with a love for sinners, and he put all his energies into the work of soul winning. There never lived a more self-denying, persevering worker. The blessings he received he prized as so many advantages to be used in blessing others. He lost no opportunity of speaking of the Saviour or of helping those in trouble. From place to place he went, preaching the gospel of Christ and establishing churches. Wherever he could find a hearing, he sought to counteract wrong, and to turn the feet of men and women into the path of righteousness.—The Acts of the Apostles, p. 367.

The Lord would not have His people exclusive. Christ’s delegated messengers are to proclaim the gospel of His grace to all nations, tongues, and people. We are to make it known that the Great Advocate is giving audience to the whole world. The Jewish church was called to be God’s representative to an apostate world, and in order to fulfill this mission the Jewish people were to maintain their own existence as a nation distinct from all the idolatrous nations upon the earth. They were to stand in the world maintaining their peculiar and holy character . . . representing God’s mercy, goodness, compassion, and love. Thus in excellence of character they could stand above every other nation; for through a pure and obedient people the Lord would manifest His rich blessings.\
Thus the principles of the laws governing His kingdom were to be exalted throughout the world. Just as surely as they responded to the mercy, the light, the grace given, they would become the light of the world. They would be constantly directing attention to God, as a wise, faultless, Supreme Ruler, and the praise of God would be in all the earth. The Lord is our God, and He has the same purpose in regard to His believing, loyal people today.—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 44.

There is no example in the life of Christ for . . . self-righteous bigotry; His character was genial and beneficent. . . . In every religious denomination, and in almost every church, are to be found [those] who would have blamed Him for His liberal mercies. They would have found fault with Him because He ate with publicans and sinners. . . .\
Those with whom God has entrusted His truth, must possess the same beneficent spirit that Christ manifested. They must adopt the same broad plans of action. They should have a kind, generous spirit toward the poor, and in a special sense feel that they are God’s stewards. . . . Like Christ, they should not shun the society of their fellow-men, but should seek it with the purpose of bestowing upon others the heavenly benefits they have received from God.—Gospel Workers, pp. 334, 335.