---
title:  Christ, Dwelling in Your Heart
date:  02/08/2023
---

`Compare Paul’s earlier prayer request, Ephesians 1:16–19, with his plea for believers in Ephesians 3:14–19. In what ways are the two requests similar?`

Behind the English translations of Ephesians 3:14, 15 is an important play on words. When Paul says that he bows before “the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named” (ESV), he is exploring the phonetic connection between the Greek word for Father, patēr, and the Greek term for family, patria. In Ephesians, Paul celebrates the comprehensive nature of God’s plan of salvation, which involves all things (Eph. 1:9, 10) for all time (Eph. 1:21). And here he lays claim to “every family in heaven and on earth” as belonging to “the Father.” Every family (patria) takes its name from the Father (patēr). This is very good news!

Ponder this thought: Your family, despite its imperfections and failings, belongs to God. Your family is not in the cruel grip of fate but in God’s caring hands. God loves imperfect families. They bear the divine name. They carry the mark of His ownership.

In Ephesians 3:16–19, Paul asks God to grant believers an abundant spiritual experience marked by inner strength through the Spirit’s presence (Eph. 3:16), intimacy with Christ, who is also portrayed as dwelling within (Eph. 3:17), and a settled, secure spiritual identity (“rooted and grounded in love,” Eph. 3:17, ESV).

As Paul seeks to offer praise to God for the expansive reach of blessings offered to believers, he includes not three dimensions but four—“breadth and length and height and depth” (Eph. 3:18, ESV). He does not clearly identify to what these dimensions apply, though they obviously describe the vast size of something important. This leaves an interesting puzzle for Bible students. Do these dimensions describe God’s wisdom (compare Job 11:5–9, which uses four dimensions), God’s power (compare Eph. 3:16, 17), or, perhaps, the spiritual temple of Ephesians 2:19–22 (compare Ezek. 43:13–16, which uses four dimensions; Amos 7:7, 8; Rev. 11:1, 2)? It may be best to see these four dimensions as describing the immensity of “the love of Christ” (Eph. 3:19), viewing the phrase “to comprehend . . . the breadth and length and height and depth” (Eph. 3:18, ESV) as parallel to the next phrase, “to know the love of Christ” (Eph. 3:19, ESV; compare Rom. 8:35–39). However we see his words, they are good news.---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Paul’s was a life of intense and varied activities. From city to city, from country to country, he journeyed, telling the story of the cross, winning converts to the gospel, and establishing churches. . . . But in all the busy activity of his life, he never lost sight of the one great purpose,—to press toward the mark of his high calling.<br/>
Paul carried with him the atmosphere of heaven. All who associated with him felt the influence of his union with Christ. The fact that his own life exemplified the truth he proclaimed, gave convincing power to his preaching. Here lies the power of the truth. The unstudied, unconscious influence of a holy life is the most convincing sermon that can be given in favor of Christianity. Argument, even when unanswerable, may provoke only opposition; but a godly example has a power that it is impossible wholly to resist.—Gospel Workers, pp. 58, 59.

It is Christ dwelling in the soul that gives us spiritual power, and makes us channels of light. The more light we have, the more we can impart to others around us. The more closely we live to Jesus, the clearer views shall we have of His loveliness. As we behold Him in His purity, we discern more clearly our own faults of character. We yearn after Him, and for that fullness that is in Him, and that shines out in the perfection of His heavenly character; and by beholding we become changed into His image. . . .<br/>
Our hearts may be filled with all the fullness of God. . . . [L]et us take the key of faith, and unlock the storehouse of God’s rich blessings. There is an infinite fullness to draw from; and we have the promise of our divine Lord, “According to your faith be it unto you.”—Lift Him Up, p. 266.

[You] may summon every power and capability that God has given you, in the endeavor to comprehend the love and compassion of the heavenly Father; and yet there is an infinity beyond. . . . Eternity itself can never fully reveal it. Yet as we study the Bible and meditate upon the life of Christ and the plan of redemption, these great themes will open to our understanding more and more. And it will be ours to realize the blessing which Paul desired for the Ephesian church when he prayed “that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him; the eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that ye may know what is the hope of His calling, and what the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints, and what is the exceeding greatness of His power to usward who believe.”—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 740.