---
title:  Glory in the Church and in Christ Jesus
date:  03/08/2023
---

`Paul concludes his prayer report with a doxology, a brief, poetic statement of praise to God. For what does he praise God? Eph. 3:20, 21.`

Paul has been recording his prayers for believers (Eph. 3:14–19). Now he prays directly and powerfully. Paul’s doxology raises two questions:

1. Does the passage inappropriately elevate the church, placing it on a par with Christ, in the phrase “to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus” (Eph. 3:21, ESV)? While Paul is highly interested in the church in Ephesians, it is clear that Christ is the Savior of the church since it is Christ who dwells in the hearts of believers (Eph. 3:17). In the doxology, Paul praises God for the salvation offered to the church through Christ Jesus.

2. Does the phrase “throughout all generations, forever and ever” (Eph. 3:21, ESV) portray an unending, earthbound future for the church, with the return of Christ put on hold? Ephesians exhibits a robust expectation for the future. For example, Ephesians 4:30 looks toward “the day of redemption” (ESV). Also, believers will experience Christ’s limitless, sovereign power in “the age to come” (Eph. 1:21, NRSV). Paul’s doxology should be read as a celebration of Christ’s unending power exercised on behalf of believers.

Looking back over Paul’s second prayer report (Eph. 3:14–21; compare Eph. 1:15–23), we see Paul finding strength in the cosmic scope of the Father’s care (Eph. 3:14, 15), the ready availability of the Holy Spirit (Eph. 3:16), the partnership of Christ Himself (Eph. 3:17), and the immeasurability of the limitless love of Christ (Eph. 3:18, 19). This is so true that he imagines believers being filled “with all the fullness of God” (Eph. 3:19, ESV) and celebrates these spiritual realities in praise, again marveling at the abundance of God’s power on offer to the saints (Eph. 3:20, 21).

Whenever we feel the press of problems, temptations, or doubts, we may turn to this buoyant account of Paul’s prayers. The imprisoned apostle raises our vision to the grand horizon of God’s purposes and grace, reminding us that, whatever our current circumstances, we are participants in God’s ultimate plan (Eph. 1:9, 10), and His power is at work in us.

`What blessings from God are especially valuable to you? Practice composing a prayer of praise in order to praise God for them.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We have been called to the knowledge of Christ, and that is to the knowledge of glory and virtue. It is a knowledge of the perfection of the divine character, manifested to us in Jesus Christ, that opens up to us communion with God. Scarcely can the human mind comprehend what is the breadth and depth and height of the spiritual attainments that can be reached by becoming partakers of the divine nature. . . .\
We are living in days of peril. Christ alone can help us and give us the victory. Christ must be all in all to us; He must dwell in the heart; His life must circulate through us, as the blood circulates through the veins. His Spirit must be a vitalizing power that will cause us to influence others to become Christlike and holy.—Our High Calling, p. 60.

There are many who think that it is impossible to escape from the power of sin, but the promise is that we may be filled with all the fullness of God. We aim too low. The mark is much higher. Our minds need expansion, that we may comprehend the significance of the provision of God. We are to reflect the highest attributes of the character of God. We should be thankful that we are not to be left to ourselves. . . .\
It is privilege of the children of God to be filled with all the fullness of God. “Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end” (Ephesians 3:20, 21).—That I May Know Him, p. 302.

In everything we should show forth the joy of the Lord.\
David declares, “I love the Lord, because he hath heard my voice and my supplications. Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon him as long as I live” (Psalm 116:1, 2). God’s goodness in hearing and answering prayer places us under heavy obligation to express our thanksgiving for the favors bestowed upon us. We should praise God much more than we do. The blessings received in answer to prayer should be promptly acknowledged. . . .\
Let the peace of God reign in your soul. Then you will have strength to bear all suffering, and you will rejoice that you have grace to endure. Praise the Lord; talk of His goodness; tell of His power. Sweeten the atmosphere that surrounds your soul. Praise with heart and soul and voice, Him who is the health of your countenance, your Saviour, and your God.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 325.