---
title:  Further Thought
date:  04/08/2023
---

Ellen G. White, “Modern Revivals,” in The Great Controversy, pp. 461–478.

“How can we harmonize our dwarfed spiritual condition with the presentation of our text [Eph. 3:14–19] that describes the fullness of knowledge it is our privilege to possess? How can Heaven look upon us, who have had every spiritual and temporal advantage that we might grow in grace, when we have not improved our opportunities? The apostle did not write these words to tantalize us, to deceive us, or to raise our expectations only to have them disappointed in our experience. He wrote these words to show us what we may and must be, if we would be heirs of the kingdom of God. How can we be laborers together with God, if we have a dwarfed experience? We have a knowledge of the Christian’s privilege, and should seek for that deep, spiritual understanding in the things of God that the Lord has desired us to have.

“Do we really believe the Bible? Do we really believe that we may attain to the knowledge of God that is presented before us in this text? Do we believe every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God? Do we believe the words that have been spoken by prophets and apostles, by Jesus Christ, who is the author of all light and blessing, and in whom dwelleth all richness and fullness? Do we really believe in God, and in his Son?”—Ellen G. White,  Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, October 1, 1889.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Compare Paul’s doxology in Ephesians 3:20, 21 to other doxologies in the New Testament—Rom. 11:33–36; Rom. 16:25–27; Phil. 4:20; 2 Pet. 3:18; Jude 24, 25. What themes or ideas move through these passages? How might we adopt the attitude of praise and worship they illustrate?`

`Compare Paul’s four uses of the Greek word plēroma (“fullness”) in Ephesians (Eph. 1:10, 23; Eph. 3:19; Eph. 4:13). Why do you think this idea is important to Paul?`

`Of all the actions of God that Paul praises in Ephesians 3, which is most inspiring to you? Why?`

`Paul concludes the first half of Ephesians just as he began it (Eph. 1:3–21), employing the language of prayer and praise. He exults in God’s power, present in the lives of believers through Christ and the Spirit (Eph. 3:16–21). How can we, as Ellen G. White wrote above, better experience this power in our lives?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In Heavenly Places, “Our Glorious Work,” p. 248;\
My Life Today, “God Is My Father,” p. 289.