---
title:  The Millennial Solution
date:  29/06/2019
---

**Introduction**: Gen. 1:1, 26–31; 2:7; 4:9; Prov. 14:31

For quite some time, the millennial issue has come up in the workplace, society, and even in our church. Often this generation is labeled as distracted, entitled, selfish, apathetic, and the like. This generation has so many resources available at its fingertips, but are they doing anything with those resources?

This week’s lesson got me thinking about what our true mission and purpose is as Christian young people while living in an age of technology and distractions—and that mission hasn’t changed. Micah 6:8 says our mission is “to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with [our] God” (NKJV), and this still rings true, no matter what period of history we are in.

In Genesis 1:1–31 we see that God created Adam and Eve in His image and then gave them dominion and responsibility to care for the earth and everything and everyone in it. Only when we look to be changed into His image once again can we be trusted to have the responsibility to care for those around us. God wants to breathe His image into us once more so that we can make a difference in our communities and to the people under our direct influence. As we continue to fall in love with our Creator, our hearts and minds will be changed to have the desire, focus, and heart to continue to do what is right and to do good to those around us. It is not something we can do in our own strength, and if we continue to be influenced by and to conform to society’s standards on what is seen as appropriate for young people, we won’t be able to make that impact.

Don’t let society label you based on when you were born and, therefore, settle. Instead, become the best you can be and choose to be different. I encourage you to choose to accept the responsibility for and to fulfill the purpose God has for you—the purpose that only you can fill—and to impact the people that God has placed in your path because “who knows whether you have come . . . for such a time as this?” (Esther 4:14). If you’re alive today, it is because you are a recipient of incredible grace and love; every breath that we draw is another reminder of a chance to make a difference today that one day will make all the difference.

---

_Michelle Solheiro, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_