---
title:  A Debtor Not Only to God
date:  01/07/2019
---

**Testimony**: Gal. 5:13

“By the terms of our stewardship we are placed under obligation, not only to God, but to man. To the infinite love of the Redeemer every human being is indebted for the gifts of life. Food and raiment and shelter, body and mind and soul—all are the purchase of His blood. And by the obligation of gratitude and service thus imposed, Christ has bound us to our fellow men. He bids us, ‘By love serve one another.’ Galatians 5:13. ‘Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these My brethren, ye have done it unto Me.’ Matthew 25:40.

“ ‘I am debtor,’ Paul declares, ‘both to the Greeks, and to the barbarians; both to the wise, and to the unwise.’ Romans 1:14. So also are we. By all that has blessed our life above others, we are placed under obligation to every human being whom we might benefit.

“. . . We are but stewards, and on the discharge of our obligation to God and man depend both the welfare of our fellow beings and our own destiny for this life and for the life to come.”1

“When men who have been abundantly blessed of heaven with large wealth fail to carry out God’s design, and do not relieve the poor and the oppressed, the Lord is displeased and will surely visit them. They have no excuse for withholding from their neighbors the help that God has put it into their power to provide; and God is dishonored, his character is misinterpreted by Satan, and he is represented as a stern judge who causes suffering to come upon the creatures he has made. This misrepresentation of God’s character is made to appear as truth, and thus through the temptation of the enemy, men’s hearts are hardened against God. Satan charges upon God the very evil he himself has caused men to commit by withholding their means from the suffering. He attributes to God his own characteristics.”2

**React**

`1. Whom do society, local cultures, and local groups consider least?`

`2. God has given us life, food, raiment, shelter, and many more blessings, so name 13 things that God has given you that can benefit the least.`

`3. Ponder deeply what the last paragraph says, and discuss what this means to you personally.`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Education, p. 139.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, “Parable of the Rich Man,” The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, June 26, 1894.</sup>

_Jonthue Michel, Newport, New Hampshire, USA_