---
title:  No Resting Place
date:  02/07/2019
---

**Evidence**: Prov. 14:31

Whenever I go on a journey, much planning goes into it: choosing a hotel, flight times, who will pick me up from the airport or whether I rent a car—and if so will I get lost while driving—how much money I need for food, and so on. I always have a sense of anticipation because sometimes things don’t go as planned. In addition, I never sleep in full rest mode when I’m on the road because of everything going on—and these are controlled trips, planned trips I would have consented to and normally enjoyed, so I should be at ease and “place all my cares on Jesus” (1 Pet. 5:7). Yes?

Then I observe men, women, and children sometimes forced from their homes, fleeing poverty, starvation, violence, and even death. In some cases, they don’t know their destination, and their means of transportation is a container wherein they are packed like sardines or an overcrowded, unseaworthy boat or walking hundreds of miles by foot. The only clothes they have are what’s on their back; the only money they have is to pay smugglers to get them as far as they can. No one is picking them up; they have no bed for a night’s rest, no food to satisfy days or weeks of hunger. I never got comfortable with the scene of little children at entrances of borders or fleeing in the arms of crying mothers, fearful of harsh treatment and the unknown.1

Our privileges should be used to help those in need. We are to treat our neighbors as we would want to be treated (c.f. Matt. 25:40, NIV). In a world where there is so much confusion, injustice, and moral decay, let us not dishonor God by asking the question like Cain, “Am I my brother’s keeper?” (Gen. 4:9). We have only a period of time to exist on this earth; this life as it is, is not our resting place. How we live and how we care for one another will have a lot to do with our destiny. We are our brother’s keeper.

**React**

`1. Should you feel an obligation to welcome strangers into your country, community, school, home?`

`2. What does the Bible reveal about Christ’s attitude toward people in need?`

`3. Can you remember the last time you honored God by helping someone by denying yourself?`

---

<sup>1. Dara Lind, “The Trump Administration’s Separation of Families at the Border, Explained,” Vox, updated June 15, 2018.</sup>

_Peter Watson, Abaco, Bahamas_