---
title:  The Trip of Your Lifetime
date:  03/07/2019
---

**How-to**: Luke 12:40

Preparing for a trip can take weeks, sometimes months. It all depends on important factors such as the time of year, destination, and length of stay. When my family traveled earlier this year, we had to get passports for three out of the four family members. Much planning went into making sure that we had the required documentation just to leave our island home.

When preparing for travel, you must consider accommodation, spending money, and appropriate clothes for the destination climate. You must think about these things early so that on the day of your departure, you have everything in place.

It’s the same when we’re preparing for the trip when Jesus comes, that all-important journey through the clouds to heaven. Before we make that trip, though, we need to prepare.

Important documentation to peruse before travel will be our Bible and the Spirit of Prophecy. We can learn how to love God and our neighbors (Exod. 20:1–17), the best foods to eat (Rev. 22:2), and the best time for rest and restoration (Exod. 20:8–11). There is also information about the landscape (Rev. 21:21) and the wildlife (Isa. 65:25).

Excess baggage will not be permitted (Matt. 6:15). Forgive others so that God can forgive you. The joy of the Lord will keep our luggage light, so make sure to stuff all the corners of your suitcase with that.

No need to worry about clothing because God our Father will be our host. He has promised us all robes of righteousness. God will also take care of our food (twelve kinds of fruit) and our accommodation (mansions). Pack obedience and trust in God. God is the master Pilot, so there’s no need to worry; even though we may experience turbulence at times, our safe arrival is ensured.

For any trip to be successful, you must prepare. In the same way we put things in place for our earthly trips, let’s make ten times the effort to prepare for the trip of a lifetime.

**React**

`1. Are we leaving our preparation for the last minute? (When should you start to pack?)`

`2. What can we do to ensure that we don’t miss the final boarding call?`

---

_Jannelle Spencer, Brittons Hill, Bridgetown, Barbados_