---
title:  Boomerang
date:  04/07/2019
---

**Opinion**: Gen. 1:26–31

A former colleague of mine once said, “I don’t need people to survive; I only need God!” I understood how he felt but respectfully explained that the body of Christ must take care of even the least of its members for many reasons, but the most important would be to reflect the love of God to the world. They need us.

Neglecting to minister to the immediate needs of our community has created a problem that has metastasized to alarming proportions. People who are neglected often turn to crime, which ends up hurting more than just the perpetrators. As philosopher Elbert Hubbard put it, “Down in their hearts, wise men know this truth: the only way to help yourself is to help others.”1 Unfortunately, we are more into helping ourselves.

Are we so busy saving ourselves and close family members that we are forgetting the needy in our communities? The Bible predicted that the increase of wickedness would affect our love for others (Matt. 24:12). Yet, God commands us to continue showing love in the most impossible of situations (John 13:34, 35).

Thankfully, our Savior is ready to use any people who are willing to deny themselves to love their neighbor as themselves. Through us, He is ready to show our needful community members that they have a Creator who loves them and wants the best for them.

True awareness of the needs around us can be so overwhelming, and like the servant with the one talent, it is tempting to think that we cannot make a difference. However, we must not believe that whatever we do will be in vain. Jesus has promised to help us with everything that will bring Him honor. God knew that by taking care of our weakest, we would automatically be taking care of ourselves and preparing a generation to accept what Christ did for them on the cross.

**React**

`1. Do you find helping others challenging (the homeless, beggars, the elderly, unbelieving family members)?`

---

<sup>1. Elbert Hubbard, The Philistine 18, no. 1 (Dec. 1903): 12.</sup>

_Zelinda Sealy-Scavella, Oshawa, Ontario, Canada_