---
title:  Revealing God’s Heart
date:  05/07/2019
---

**Exploration**: Prov. 14:31

**Conclude**

Reflecting on the theme for this week, it should touch our hearts to notice just how God feels toward the poor and the suffering. He is reproached when we oppress or offend another who is less fortunate. Because God is love, He calls us also to walk in that same love (Eph. 5:1, 2) and to show who He really is by revealing His heart for those under trying circumstances. When they see, through our actions, that God truly cares about their lives and wants to save them, their hearts will naturally open up to receive God’s wonderful, healing love.

**Consider**

- Getting to know your neighbors. Be a friend to them and find out how you can help them and show you appreciate them.
- Writing a letter about how God feels toward those who are hurting, suffering, and oppressed and how that impacts you.
- Listening to the song “People Need the Lord” by Steve Green. Reflect on how God seeks to help those in need through you.
- Planning a bake sale in your community or your church. Donate the funds raised to a local shelter or a charity that aims to help those who are less fortunate.
- Writing a poem about God’s love. Give it as a gift to someone who’s hurting to brighten their day. Write the poem with fancy lettering and be creative with the overall presentation.
- Memorizing the lyrics to the song “I’m Available to You” by Milton Brunson. As you think about the words, jot down some ways you can do more for others. Then put those ideas into action! Invite your family and/or friends to join you.
- Putting together care packages that have fruit, clothing items (e.g., socks), toiletries, and a book about Jesus. Plan a trip into the city with family and friends, and hand out the packages to the homeless.


**Connect**

1 Samuel 2:8; Psalms 9:9, 10; 17:5; 147:3.

Ellen G. White, Christian Service, pp. 186–188.

---

_Jennifer Alicia Alvarado, Toronto, Ontario, Canada_