---
title:  Innocent Blood
date:   12/11/2016
---

### Innocent Blood

### Read for This Week’s Study: 
Job 10, Isa. 53:6, Rom. 3:10– 20, Job 15:14–16, Job 1:18–20, Matt. 6:34.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen” (Hebrews 11:1).

Algerian-born writer Albert Camus struggled with the question of human suffering. In his book The Plague, he used a plague as a metaphor for the ills that bring pain and suffering upon humanity. He depicted a scene in which a little boy, afflicted with the pestilence, dies a horrific death. Afterward a priest, who had been a witness to the tragedy, said to a doctor who had been there too: “That sort of thing is revolting because it passes our human understanding. But perhaps we should love what we cannot understand.” The doctor, enraged, snapped back: “No, Father. I’ve a very different idea of love. And until my dying day, I shall refuse to love a scheme of things in which children are put to torture.”—Albert Camus, The Plague (New York: First Vintage International Edition, 1991), p. 218.

This scene reflects what we have seen in Job: pat and lame answers to what doesn’t have a simple solution. Job knew, as did the doctor here, that the answers given didn’t fit the reality at hand. Thus, that’s the challenge: How do we find answers that make sense of what so often seems without sense? This week we will continue the pursuit.

*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, November 19.*

