---
title:  Things Not Seen
date:   17/11/2016
---

### Things Not Seen

`Read Proverbs 3:5. Though it is such a common text, what crucial message does it have for us, especially in the context of what we have been studying?`

Though the case of Job is extreme, it does reflect the sad reality of human suffering in our fallen world. We don’t need the story of Job or even the other stories we can read in the Bible to see this reality. We see it all around us. Indeed, to some degree, we all live it.

“Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble. He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not” (Job 14:1, 2).

So again, the question we struggle with is how do we account for suffering, the kind that seems to make no sense to us, that kind in which innocent blood is shed?

As the early chapters of Job have shown, and as the Bible elsewhere reveals, Satan is a real being and is the cause, directly or indirectly, of so much suffering. As we have seen early in this quarter (see Lesson 2), the great controversy template works well in helping us to deal with the reality of evil in our world.

Still, it’s hard to understand at times why things happen that do take place. Sometimes—many times, actually—things just don’t make sense. It’s at times like these, when things happen that we don’t understand, that we need to learn to trust in the goodness of God. We need to learn to trust God, even when answers are not readily apparent and when we can see nothing good coming from the evil and suffering around us.

`Hebrews 11:1 reads: “Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.” From the things that we do see, how can we learn to trust God about the things that we don’t see? From what we have read in the book of Job so far, in what sense has Job learned to do just that? How can we learn to do the same?`