---
title: 'Satan’s End-Time Tricks And Lies'
date: 27/05/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Revelation 12:9; Revelation 16:13, 14; Ezekiel 8:16; Ezekiel 20:1–20; Romans 1:5.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Use the truth to make them holy. Your word [the Bible] is truth’ ” (John 17:17, NIrV).

It was a beautiful September morning in the city of Chicago in the United States of America. The sun’s rays touched Lake Michigan while people drove to work and children went to school. That morning, a frightening story was reported on the news. The story made the people of Chicago feel afraid. The news report said that people were getting sick. Some of the sick people died a few hours later, after swallowing some Tylenol pills. Tylenol is a powerful pill for aches and pains, and you can buy this pill at drugstores. Scientists decided to do a test on the Tylenol to see what was wrong with it. When the tests were done, the scientists discovered what was causing everyone to get sick. The Tylenol pills had poison in them. Someone put poison in the pills. To this day, no one knows who did this crime.

As we’ve seen, the book of Revelation warns us that the people on this earth will drink a special drink named the wine of Babylon. This “wine” is false teachings that will lead to everlasting death. But God gives us “medicine” to cure us if we get sick from drinking Babylon’s wine. The “cure” is the Three Angels’ Messages of Revelation 14. This week, we will continue to look at Babylon’s lies and false teachings. We also will look at Jesus’ plans to save us from them.