---
title: 'Going The Wrong Way'
date: 28/05/2023
---

Jesus gave us this powerful warning about the end times: “ ‘Some will come who will say they are Christ [Jesus]. False preachers will come. These people will do special things for people to see. They will do surprising things, so that if it can be [possible], God’s people will be led to believe something wrong’ ” (Mark 13:22, NLV). Do you see what Jesus is saying? Satan’s tricks and lies will be so powerful in the end times that God’s own people will be in danger of believing these lies. That is a scary thought, right?

`Who does Satan trick? Read Revelation 12:9 for the answer. What else does this verse mean?`

For sure, God will have people who are obedient to Him in the end times. But even so, we see that Satan’s lies will trick many people.

`Read Revelation 14:12. What powerful warning do we read in this verse?`

People often say that we should follow our own ideas about what we think is right or wrong and what we think is good or evil. Then we should try to live our lives by these rules. But there’s a big problem with this thinking. The Bible says that we are all sinners (Jeremiah 17:9; Romans 3:9–18). So, we can’t trust our own feelings. Sooner or later, our feelings will lead us in the wrong way. A lot of evil has been done by people who thought they were doing good. They did what they thought was best.

So, what is the answer to this problem? We must study God’s Word, the Bible. We must fill our hearts and minds with Bible truth. We must give our lives to the Holy Spirit. The Spirit will help us learn Bible truth. He will help us to see lies and evil for what they really are. Without the Holy Spirit’s help, we can believe Satan’s lies too easily.

`Think about examples of people who did what they thought was good or right. They may have thought that they followed God’s plan. But they didn’t. They did evil. What can we learn from their terrible mistakes?`