---
title: 'The Old Lie That We Never Die'
date: 29/05/2023
---

`Read Revelation 16:13, 14 and Revelation 18:2, 23. What hints do you find in these verses about Satan’s lies? What do these verses show us about the false teaching that our spirits keep living after our bodies die?`

Revelation 16:13, 14 and Revelation 18:2, 23 use special words to show us the work Satan will do: “spirits of demons” (Revelation 16:14, ICB); “home for demons” (Revelation 18:2, ERV); “city for every evil spirit” (Revelation 18:2, ICB); “magic” (Revelation 18:23, ERV); and “witchcraft” (Revelation 18:23, NLV). No wonder God warns us that one of Satan’s two big lies in the end times will be the false teaching that “the spirit continues to live after the body dies.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 588, adapted.

Of course, we can see how many people today believe this lie. Sad to say, many Christians believe it. They think that the saved go straight to heaven when they die. These Christians believe that the lost go to hell right away when they die, too. How often did we hear that said about Billy Graham? Billy Graham was a famous Baptist preacher from America. After Graham died, people said that he was safe and alive in heaven with Jesus. People tell this lie all the time in churches, classrooms, and at funerals.

`What teachings did God give His people about life after death? Where do we find our hope? Read Ecclesiastes 9:5; Job 19:25–27; 1 Thessalonians 4:16, 17; and Revelation 14:13 for the answers.`

One of the false teachings from Babylon is the lie about death. Babylon teaches that the spirit lives forever and never dies. This false teaching helps people to accept the idea that our dead loved ones can talk to us. If you believe that the dead can communicate with us, how can you be safe from Satan’s many tricks and lies? If the ghost of your dead mother or child comes and talks to you, you may be tricked by what you see. Satan tricked many people this way in the past. He continues to do it now. For sure, in these end times, Satan will trick people this way in the future. So what is our only hope? Bible truth is the only thing that protects us.