---
title: 'Babylon: The Center For Sun Worship'
date: 30/05/2023
---

(Ezekiel 8:16)

Many people worshiped the sun in Egypt, Assyria, Persia, and Babylon during Bible times. One Bible thinker writes: “In old-time Babylon, people worshiped the sun from the beginning of time.”—James G. Frazer, The Worship of Nature (London: Macmillan and Company, 1926), volume 1, page 529, adapted. At times, God’s people made sun worship a part of their worship of God in Old Testament times.

`Read Ezekiel 8:16 and 2 Kings 23:5, 11. What does the Bible say about sun worship in Israel and Judah? (Also read Romans 1:25.)`

Ezekiel was a prophet. A prophet is a special messenger from God to His people. Ezekiel lived at the same time as Daniel during Bible times. Ezekiel showed us a picture of God’s people. The people turned their backs to God’s temple and worshiped the sun. The Israelites worshiped the sun and not the One who made the sun.

In Revelation 17, John warned about a time when Babylon’s teachings would be taught in the Christian church. When did this happen? Three hundred years after Jesus died on the cross, a Roman king, Constantine, became a Christian.Christians in the kingdom of Rome were so happy when Constantine joined the church. Constantine had been a sun worshiper. Edward Gibbon, a famous history writer, says: “People in Constantine’s time believed that the sun was a powerful god. These people believed that the sun protected and guided Constantine.”—The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire (London: J. O. Robinson & Company, 1830), page 12, adapted. In a.d. 321, Constantine also passed the first “Sunday law.” This law said: “On the respected day of the Sun, let the leaders and the people in the cities rest. Let all workshops be closed.”—Edict of Constantine, a.d. 321. This law didn’t force anyone to worship on Sunday. But the law helped Roman citizens to start to think that honoring Sunday was important. Many years later, other kings and religious leaders made laws that forced people to keep Sunday.

`Many churches today keep Sunday holy. How did Satan convince Christians to honor Sunday?`