---
title: 'Be Loyal To Jesus'
date: 31/05/2023
---

The Second Angel’s Message is: “ ‘She is destroyed! The great [mighty] city of Babylon is destroyed!’ ” (Revelation 14:8, ERV). In Revelation 17, we see a woman. This woman is a word picture for spiritual Babylon. She is wearing purple and red clothes. She rides on a red wild animal. The woman passes around her wine cup. She gets the people on this earth drunk with her false teachings. She is a sign that shows us how church and government will join in the end times and work together. People everywhere believe Babylon’s lies. Demons will work their miracles to trick people. This picture is what will happen in the end times.

At the same time, God’s people are attacked and hurt. But they stay strong in Jesus. Nothing can cause them to break God’s commandments. God’s people are loyal to Him. They say, “God is our protection and our strength. He always helps in times of trouble” (Psalm 46:1, ICB). Today, God asks His people to be obedient to Bible truth. Jesus prayed to the Father, “ ‘Use the truth to make them holy. Your word is truth’ ” (John 17:17, NIrV). Bible truth will keep us safe in this important time in earth’s history.

A Baptist pastor wrote some surprising words about Sunday. The pastor was named Dr. Edward T. Hiscox. He wrote the Standard Manual for Baptist Churches. In 1893, Dr. Hiscox preached to a group of hundreds of Baptist pastors. Dr. Hiscox explained to them how Sunday came into the Christian church. Hiscox said, “Sunday comes from the religion of sun worship. Christians adopted this day of worship into their religion after the Catholic Church replaced the true Sabbath with this false day!”—Edward Hiscox, in front of a New York ministers’ meeting, November 13, 1893, adapted.

`Read Ezekiel 20:1–20. What is Ezekiel’s message in these verses? Why is it important to keep the Sabbath? How does our keeping the Sabbath show that we are loyal to God?`

In Ezekiel 20, the Lord tells Israel to worship Him and not their false gods. In the Three Angels’ Messages, God asks us to do the same thing. The Sabbath has a big part in all these happenings in the end times, as we know.

`What lessons do you learn for yourself from Ezekiel 20:1–20?`