---
title: '“to Believe And Obey”'
date: 01/06/2023
---

The woman wearing red and purple clothes rides on a red wild animal. As we saw, the woman is a symbol for spiritual Babylon. The woman passes around her wine cup. She gets the people on the earth drunk with her “wine.” Ellen G. White says: “What is Babyon’s wine? Her false teachings. Babylon replaces the true Sabbath with a false one. Babylon also teaches the lie that Satan first told Eve in Eden. What is that lie? It is that the spirit lives forever after the body dies.”—Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, December 6, 1892, adapted. These false teachings have tricked millions of people. So, God gives His people a final end-time message to help them accept Bible truth.

`What does God say to His people who are part of Babylon? They are part of religions that teach false ideas. Read Revelation 18:4, 5 for the answer.`

As we saw, many of God’s people belong to churches and religions that don’t always teach Bible truth. God loves these people so much. So, God says to them: “ ‘Come out of that city [Babylon; churches that teach lies], my people, so that you will not share in [be judged guilty for] her sins. Then you will not suffer any of the terrible punishment she will get’ ” (Revelation 18:4, ERV).

`What does the Bible say sin is? Read 1 John 3:4 and Romans 14:23 for the answer. Compare these two verses. How do these two verses agree with each other?`

Sin means breaking God’s law. The only way anyone can keep the law is with Jesus’ help. Jesus must live in our hearts first. Then we can obey Him. We are sinners. We are weak. We make mistakes. But when we accept Jesus by faith, He forgives us in His mercy for our past. His mercy gives us strength to live right now. God gives us faith “to believe and obey” (Romans 1:5, ERV). Today, God has a message for His people in churches that don’t respect and obey His law. God asks them to have faith to leave these false teachings behind. God asks Adventists to stop being selfish and to live by faith in Jesus. We can’t save ourselves by our own good behavior. So, we must have faith in God’s mercy to save us from sin. We can be powerful examples to other people to help lead them out of Babylon.