---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 02/06/2023
---

“In the Book of Revelation, ‘the Great [Mighty] Babylon’ [Revelation 17:5, ERV] is a word picture that shows us the false religions that join together as one group at the end times. . . . ‘Babylon the Great’ is God’s name for this big end-time religious group. This group is made up of three powers: (1) the Catholic church, (2) Protestant churches that teach false ideas, and (3) spiritualism. Spiritualism is the false teaching that the dead communicate with us and that the spirit continues to live after the body dies. The name ‘Babylon’ shows us all these false ideas, religions, and leaders but not really the members who belong to these groups. The members are shown as ‘many waters’ [Revelation 17:1, 15] in the Bible.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 7, pages 851, 852, adapted.

“Satan will bring the people under his control. How? By teaching two big lies. The first lie is that our spirits don’t die when our bodies die. The second lie is that Sunday is holy. The first lie helps people accept the teaching that the dead can communicate with us. The second lie helps people to accept more easily the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 588, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why is it so important for us to understand Bible truth about what happens when we die? What does the Bible teach about this topic? Why does the Bible truth about death give us so much hope?`

`Some of the devil’s tricks and lies are easy to see and avoid. But not all of them. Some of his tricks and lies are hard to see. How can we avoid being fooled by both his tricks and his lies?`

`In class, talk about the question at the end of Sunday’s study. You will remember that this question was about people who believed they were following God’s plan. But they were not. They were tricked. How do we know that they were tricked? How can Bible truth keep us from being tricked, the same as these people were?`