---
title:  I Will Sing to the Lord!
date:   16/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 134; Psalm 33:3; Psalm 15; Psalm 96; Psalm 40:6-8; Psalm 50:7-23; Psalm 51:16-19.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “I will sing to the Lord for the rest of my life. I will sing praises to my God as long as I live” (Psalm 104:33, ERV).

Our knowledge about God grows as we experience His mercy. As we grow as Christians, our hearts fill with thankfulness to God for His many blessings. We will ask, “What can I give the Lord for all that he has done for me?” (Psalm 116:12, ERV). The answer is that we must give ourselves fully to God and live for Him in faith.

In the Book of Psalms, Israel is more than a people group or country. Israel is the big crowd who meets together to worship God (Psalm 22:22, 25; Psalm 35:18). Israel’s meeting together shows us that God wants His people to come together to praise Him. God wants the rest of the people on earth to join Israel. The Lord asks His children to tell other people the good news about His mercy. Then more people will come to worship God.

Praise is part of our worship together as a church. Our worship in church doesn’t replace our private prayer and praise. Personal worship makes our public worship grow strong (Psalm 22:22, 25). When we worship together as a church, our private worship grows strong, too. The people who meet together to worship God are named the people “who are right [accepted] with God” (Psalm 111:1, NLV). They know God (Psalm 36:10), and God knows them (Psalm 37:18, NLV). Their experience with God fills every part of their lives.