---
title:  Lift Your Hands In The Temple And Give Thanks
date:   17/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How do the people worship God in Psalm 134? What happens when the people worship the Lord in this way?`

Psalm 134 helps us remember the blessing Aaron gave the Israelites (Numbers 6:24-26; also read Psalm 67:1). Blessing is an important part of the relationship between God and His people. The people bless God in His temple. God blesses His people from Zion. God is the One who made them, so His blessings touch every part of His people’s lives. The people are under God’s promise of mercy. As part of this promise, the people may bless the Lord and get blessings from Him.

`Read Psalm 18:1; Psalm 36:1; Psalm 113:1; Psalm 134:1, 2; and Psalm 135:1, 2. What do these verses tell us about the people who worship God?`

Another name in the Book of Psalms for people who worship God is the Lord’s servants. The poet says, “Praise the Lord, all his servants who serve in the Temple at night” (Psalm 134:1, ERV). These night workers may have guarded the temple at night for the Levites (1 Chronicles 9:23-27). The Levites offered praise to God both day and night (1 Chronicles 9:33).

The temple helped Israel to know and understand the God they couldn’t see. This help was important because God commanded His people not to make statues of Him or bow down to them. The temple showed the people the Lord’s glory. The temple also was a safe place for sinners to come to meet with their holy King. The Lord gave His people important rules to follow for meeting with Him in His temple.

“The Lord Jesus is the living stone. . . . He is the one God chose as one of great [important] value [worth]. So come to him. You also are like [the same as] living stones, and God is using you to build a spiritual house. You are to serve God in this house as holy priests [spiritual leaders], offering him spiritual sacrifices [gifts] that he will accept because of Jesus Christ” (1 Peter 2:4, 5, ERV). In these verses, Peter teaches the same ideas that we read about in the Book of Psalms. God’s people are a group of holy priests. They offer their praise and thanks to Jesus, who made them and is their Savior. His people thank Him for all the wonderful things He did, and does, for them.