---
title:  Sing To The Lord A New Song
date:   18/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 33:3; Psalm 40:3; Psalm 96:1; Psalm 98:1; Psalm 144:9; and Psalm 149:1. What same idea do you read about in the verses from each of these poems?`

These poems ask the people to sing a new song. The reason for the new song is because the Lord controls the earth. Also, the people are thankful to the Lord for His care. The people are thankful that the Lord made them. The people are grateful to the Lord for being the Judge of the whole earth. The people are thankful to God for many other reasons. God saved them from their enemies and from death. The Israelites are grateful for God’s special favor. Other songs and poems in the Book of Psalms praise God for His love and wonderful miracles. But the new song is different. The new song is a special song. It is a song of joy.

The new song is also a promise from the people to God. The people promise to give their lives to God again. Their new experiences of faith cause the people to announce that God is their King and the One who made them. The new song is about trust in God. The new song also praises God for His wonderful works. In the new song, the people thank God for saving them from their enemies.

`Read Isaiah 42:10-12; Revelation 5:9; and Revelation 14:3. What do these verses teach us about the new song?`

The Bible says Israel is God’s “precious people” (Psalm 148:14, ERV). The Israelites are “the people closest to his heart” (Psalm 148:14, ICB). So, the Israelites have a special experience with God. This experience gives them a very special honor. They get to praise God in a special way that no one else on earth gets to do. The Bible encourages all of God’s people in every age to sing the new song in praise to their Savior. A new song can be a song no one sang before. A new song can be about an experience we have of God’s mercy. We can sing a new song about the hope we have in God. The new song is worship. Worship is more than offering gifts. Worship is about our loving God and accepting His love for us. A new song is a new way to share our love and thankfulness to God for everything He does for us.

`If you were to sing a new song, what would it be?`