---
title:  Lord, Who May Live In Your Temple?
date:   19/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Who is worthy of worshiping the living God in His temple? Read Psalm 15 for the answer.`

In short, the answer to the question above is the people who have holy hearts (read Deuteronomy 6:5; Micah 6:6-8). The lives of these people show they obey God. God’s love is in their hearts. God’s temple in Jerusalem was a holy place. Everything in the temple, including God’s priests or spiritual leaders, was an offering to God. So, everyone who entered the temple needed to be holy, too. God’s people needed to be holy in every part of their lives. God gave His people the law to help them become a kingdom of royal priests. God’s royal priests need to be holy when they come to worship God. Their lives must be holy so that they can share the blessings of God’s promise with other people.

`What does it mean to be holy? Read Psalm 24:3-6 and Psalm 101:1-3 for the answer.`

What makes us holy? God gives us perfect hearts. The word “perfect” comes from the Hebrew word “tamin.” “Tamin” means something that is “whole” or “complete.” A perfect vine is whole and healthy (Ezekiel 15:5). Animals offered to God as gifts must be “tamin” (Leviticus 22:21-24). These animals must not be sick, blind, crippled, or have any broken bones. “Perfect” words are filled with truth. These words do not lie (Job 36:4). So, a “perfect” heart is a holy heart or a heart that is clean from sin (Psalm 24:4; Psalm 15:2). A person with a “perfect” heart seeks God (Psalm 24:6) and is made clean with God’s forgiveness (Psalm 51:2-10). God’s mercy helps His servants to live an obedient life. When we live holy lives, we give praise to God and not ourselves.

`How can we make choices to stay away from doing things that separate us from God? What are some of these things? How can we stop doing them?`