---
title:  Announce God’s Glory To All People
date:   20/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What does worship include? Read Psalm 96 for the answer.`

Worship includes singing to the Lord (Psalm 96:1, 2) and praising His name (Psalm 96:2). Worship also includes announcing that God is wonderful and powerful (Psalm 96:3, 4). When we worship God, we also bring Him gifts (Psalm 96:8). There’s another part of worship that’s not so well known as singing, praising, and offering God gifts: we must announce the Lord’s kingdom to other people (Psalm 96:2, 3, 10).

Singing, praising, bringing gifts, and announcing the Good News about Jesus are not separate from each other. When we share the good news, we praise and worship God at the same time. Our reasons for worship are the same reasons for sharing the good news with other people: (1) The Lord is wonderful (Psalm 96:4). (2) The gods of other people are statues. But our Lord made the skies and the earth (Psalm 96:5). (3) The Lord is the King. The whole earth is under His control (Psalm 96:10). (4) The Lord is coming soon. He will judge everyone on the earth (Psalm 96:13). We share the good news with people for these reasons so that they may join us in worshiping God (Psalm 96:11-13).

Worship starts with knowing that the Lord is the One who made us. The Lord is also our King and our Judge (Psalm 96:5, 10, 13). When we worship God, we also remember His acts in the past. We celebrate God’s work for us now. We are filled with hope when we think about His work in the future. He will judge the earth and make life new.

What is God’s work as Judge all about? God will bring peace to an earth that is now filled with suffering and pain. God will make things right in a life that is not fair now. That is why the whole earth is filled with joy for God’s work as Judge (Psalm 96:10-13; Psalm 98:4-9). Because the Lord is a fair and holy Judge, His people want to worship Him in all His holy beauty (Psalm 96:9). Worship is about joy and trust (Psalm 96:1, 2, 11-13). Worship is also about respect for God (Psalm 96:4, 9).

Psalm 96 calls everyone to worship God, the Judge. This same announcement is part of the Three Angels’ Messages in Revelation 14:6-12. In many ways, Psalm 96 announces this end-time message: worship the God who made you! He is your Savior and Judge.