---
title:  What Does The Lord Really Want?
date:   21/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 40:6-8; Psalm 50:7-23; and Psalm 51:16-19. What important topic do these poems talk about? God in His law asks His people to give Him offerings and gifts (Exodus 20:24). Why does God take no pleasure in these gifts at times? What does God really want from His people?`

The poets in the Book of Psalms want God’s people to understand the reasons why God is unhappy with their worship at times. The people’s sins separate them from God. So, their worship is fake. God hates fake worship.

God isn’t angry with His people for their gifts or burnt offerings. He is upset with their evil behavior and their sins. God’s people are not fair in court or holy in their personal lives (Psalm 50:8, 17-21). The Book of Psalms isn’t preaching against offerings and worship. The Book of Psalms preaches against empty offerings and empty worship. The worship of the people is empty and fake because their lives are filled with sin.

When our behavior doesn’t match our worship or faith, we will worship God for the wrong reasons. Then the things we do to worship God become more important than our relationship with God. We care more about our offerings than being close to Him in our hearts. The reason for our gifts and offerings is to bring us closer to God. But when our hearts are far away from God, our gifts and offerings have no meaning.

`Read John 4:23, 24. What is Jesus saying in these verses? How do His words agree with what our psalms for today are warning against?`

Offerings and gifts are not enough. What good are our gifts if the heart that gives them isn’t sorry for sin or filled with faith? When God’s people confessed their sins, their offerings pleased Him. Then He accepted their offerings as holy gifts (Psalm 51:19; also read Psalm 50:14). Jesus uses a quote from Isaiah: “ ‘These people honor me with their words, but I am not really important to them’ ” (Matthew 15:8, ERV). The problems that the poets saw were the same ones that Jesus had with some of the people, including the leaders, during His time on earth.

`Why is knowing the truth not enough to save us?`