---
title:  Additional thought
date:   22/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “How to Pray,” pages 26-28, in _A Call to Stand Apart_.

“God does not live in temples built with human hands. But He honors His people when they meet together. God made His people this promise. He will send His Spirit to meet with them. But first, they must come together to seek Him. They must confess their sins. They must pray for each other. Those people who come together to worship God should stop doing evil. God’s people must worship Him with holy hearts. They must obey His law and Bible truth. If God’s people refuse to do these things, their coming together to worship will be empty and useless. Jesus said these words about this group of people: ‘These people honor me with their words, but I am not really important to them. Their worship of me is worthless [worth nothing]’ Matthew 15:8, 9 [ERV]. Those people who worship God must worship Him ‘in spirit and truth. That time is now here. And these [people] are the kinds [types] of worshipers [people who worship God] the Father wants.’ John 4:23 [ICB].”—Ellen G. White, _Prophets and Kings_, page 50, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What is the best gift that we can give to God when we come to worship Him? Read Psalm 40:6-10 and Romans 12:1, 2 for the answer.`

`How are public and private worship connected? Why do we need both? How do both types help our worship experience and faith to grow and become strong?`

`Many people think that worship includes only prayer, singing songs, Bible study, and reading other religious books. These things are very important to worship. At the same time, why is worship more than songs, Bible study, and reading religious books? What else does worship include? Give some examples.`

`Ellen G. White wrote: “We should feel pleasure when we worship the Lord and do His work.”—Steps to Christ, page 103, adapted. What can we do to make worshiping the Lord a pleasure?`