---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   23/12/2017
---

Christian
Living
“Why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost thou set at nought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ” (Rom. 14:10).

sabbath
DECEMBER 23
Gen. 15:6;
John 3:18;
Rom. 4:3, 22;
2 Cor. 5:10;
Rev. 22:17
Introduction
100 Percent Exchanged


Calling after midnight, or even calling his teacher at all, wasn’t normal for Jason; but he didn’t know where else to turn. How could he be failing a class in religion? Maybe he could find help. Was it too late? When Mr. Haskel answered, his relaxed and hopeful voice surprised Jason.

“Jason, relax, it’s going to be OK. Look, you just trust me to take care of it. I’ll make sure you pass.”

Jesus gave us credit for His perfect life— even though we were undeserving.
At this point, Jason has two options: (1) he can take his teacher’s word for it, or (2) he can continue freaking out and probably still fail the test. Like the typical college student, he continued in option 2—worry and stress out. And, for all his worry, the test still came the next morning.

Seventeen Years Later

“God, I’m not ready to die. I don’t know what to do,” Jason begged, barely conscious. His tears swelled, wetting his hospital gown and drowning his raspy voice in this last-ditch effort. How could he die from a fight in his own club?

“Son, have peace. It’s going to be OK. Believe in Me and you will be saved.” At this point, Jason has two options: (1) he can take God’s word for it, or (2) he can stay miserable and empty on his deathbed. However, this time Jason didn’t pick the second option.

Lessons From the Test

When Jason took the test seventeen years earlier and turned it in, he failed as he had expected. However, the student next to him took the teacher’s

advice and asked for help. Mr. Haskel then took out his own personal copy of the test, which had been perfectly filled in, and wrote the student’s name at the top. That student got 100 percent just for trusting the teacher, while Jason failed.

As we start our Christian walk, we must first see how Jesus treated us. He took our test so that we can pass. And then, in the same way Mr. Haskel wanted his class to learn, Jesus gave us credit for His perfect life—even though we were undeserving. He put our names on His perfect test, with the perfect score. Jason was saved in that hospital bed because He believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness; he passed the most important test.

Josh Hester, Council Bluffs, Iowa, USA

sunday
DECEMBER 24
Rom. 4:13; 5:1, 2; 10:1, 2
Logos
The Greatest Relationship


With the arrival of Christ on earth, perceptions of God changed dramatically. The “true Light” (John 1:9, NKJV) shone brightly on planet Earth, clearly revealing God’s character of love, which Satan had tried to hide in darkness. Christ came to show that salvation was not something to be earned by carefully following a rigid set of rules but, rather, “the gift of God, not of works” (Eph. 2:8, 9, NKJV), graciously given by the sacrifice of Jesus. Because our salvation is a gift of grace, then out of love we follow the guidelines given to us by God the Father and work to build a relationship with Him and His Son.

Christ came to show that salvation was not something to be earned by carefully following a rigid set of rules.
Peace and Salvation Through Faith (Rom. 5:1, 2)
In Romans, Paul is constantly asserting that salvation is achieved through faith in Jesus Christ and not through our own works. The Jews had led themselves to believe that counting their steps on the Sabbath, not mixing materials in their garments, being circumcised, being God’s chosen people, and the works of tradition would bring them salvation. But in Romans 5:1, Paul clears up their misconceptions by stating, “Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ” (NKJV). The peace he refers to is freedom from sin, a result of the sacrifice God made by sending His Son to die for our sins. By trusting and having faith in Christ’s merits and not our own, we, too, can “have access by faith into this grace” (Rom. 5:2, NKJV) and ensure our own salvation.

Abraham’s Great Faith Example (Rom. 4:13)
In Romans 4, Paul uses a well-known Old Testament story to illustrate the value of faith. He recounts the story of Abraham, bringing to his readers’ minds Abraham and Sarah’s struggle to have children. Despite the fact that Abraham was “a hundred years old” (Rom. 4:19, NKJV) and “Sarah’s womb was also dead” (Rom. 4:19, NIV) in her old age, God promised that they would have a child through whom many nations would be established and the bloodline of the Messiah would come. Many would have scoffed at that promise given their age; but Abraham “did not waver at the promise of God through unbelief” and was “fully convinced that what He [God] had promised He was also able to perform” (Rom. 4:20, 21, NKJV).

Paul illustrates the power of having a strong, unyielding faith in God and trusting in God’s ability to follow through with what He has promised. Abraham believed in the plan of the Lord and followed the instructions given to him. By trusting in God’s ability and not his own, he became the forefather to the “heir of the world” (Rom. 4:13, NKJV). God didn’t make the promise to Abraham “through the law” (verse 13, NKJV) or, in other words, because of Abraham’s works; rather, the promise was made “through the righteousness of faith” (verse 13, NKJV) or because Abraham believed.

Paul uses this story of Abraham’s faith as an illustration and confirmation of how righteousness and the sense of justification are attained. We need to remember to follow Abraham’s example, trusting in God’s plan and ability—even when it seems impossible. Imagine the blessings we have in store when we have faith!

Build a Relationship with God (Isa. 64:6; Romans 10)
In Romans 10, Paul discusses the components of faith necessary to achieve salvation through Jesus Christ. He begins the passage by acknowledging that the Israelites had zeal for God, but it was not “according to knowledge” (Rom. 10:2, NKJV), meaning it wasn’t based on an accurate understanding of Scripture. The Israelites, “ignorant of God’s righteousness, and seeking to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted to the righteousness of God” (Rom. 10:3, NKJV). This means that they attempted to secure salvation by their own works and trusting in their goodness, rather than trusting in God’s goodness. Faith means realizing that my “righteousnesses are as filthy rags” (Isa. 64:6) and asking Christ to place His pure garment of righteousness on me.

REACT
How can you work on deepening your faith relationship with Jesus Christ?
What are the essential components of your relationship with God as you travel toward salvation?
What are some of your spiritual “works” of righteousness in which you trust above trusting in Christ’s righteousness?
Helena Herber, Saint Helena, California, USA

monday
DECEMBER 25
Rom. 15:13
Testimony
Repentance— My Job or God’s Gift?


“Many are confused as to what constitutes the first steps in the work of salvation. Repentance is thought to be a work the sinner must do for himself in order that he may come to Christ. They think that the sinner must procure for himself a fitness in order to obtain the blessing of God’s grace. But while it is true that repentance must precede forgiveness, for it is only the broken and contrite heart that is acceptable to God, yet the sinner cannot bring himself to repentance, or prepare himself to come to Christ. Except the sinner repent, he cannot be forgiven; but the question to be decided is as to whether repentance is the work of the sinner or the gift of Christ. Must the sinner wait until he is filled with remorse for his sin before he can come to Christ? The very first step to Christ is taken through the drawing of the Spirit of God; as man responds to this drawing, he advances toward Christ in order that he may repent.

“The very first step to Christ is taken through the drawing of the Spirit of God; as man responds to this drawing, he advances toward Christ in order that he may repent.”
“The sinner is represented as a lost sheep, and a lost sheep never returns to the fold unless he is sought after and brought back to the fold by the shepherd. No man of himself can repent, and make himself worthy of the blessing of justification. The Lord Jesus is constantly seeking to impress the sinner’s mind and attract him to behold Himself, the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world. We cannot take a step toward spiritual life save as Jesus draws and strengthens the soul, and leads us to experience that repentance which needeth not to be repented of.”1

REACT
If a sinner cannot bring himself to repentance, how should we treat those who are unrepentant?
If it’s not the lost sheep who brings herself back to the fold but Christ who brings the sheep back, do we have anything to fear for those who may be “lost sheep”?
How can our church better convey that salvation is not by works? Is there anything our church is doing that undermines or contradicts this truth?
1. Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, bk. 1, pp. 390, 391.
Sarah Ventura, Winona, Minnesota, USA

tuesday
DECEMBER 26
Matt. 15:10–20;
Rom. 14:14–23;
1 Corinthians 8
Evidence
Deeper Unity


The Jews held the laws of Moses in high regard but held their additional traditional food laws in higher esteem. The Jews looked down on Gentiles because they did not keep these laws concerning food and washing. They even approached Jesus when they thought He was breaking them (Matthew 15). When Paul wrote to the Christians in Rome, he knew there were both Jews and Gentiles in the church. Paul was writing to Jews who felt threatened by this influx of Gentiles in the church and their expression of their faith in Jesus.

Jesus didn’t die for food, buildings, doctrines, clothes, or status; He died for mankind.
After discussing a multitude of topics, Paul finally addresses the eating practices of the Jews and Gentiles. Paul declares in Romans 14:14, “I know and am convinced by the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean of itself; but to him who considers anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean” (NKJV). This verse to the Jews might seem to be Paul’s defection to the side of the Gentiles, declaring their eating rules obsolete and only a matter of opinion; but Paul continues his discourse in verse 15: “Yet if your brother is grieved because of your food, you are no longer walking in love. Do not destroy with your food the one for whom Christ died” (NKJV). He goes on to say in verse 17, “For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit” (NKJV).

Rather than the actual food, Paul discusses a deeper matter: unity in the body of Christ. Paul is not telling the Gentiles to, all of a sudden, become kosher Christians; nor is he telling the Jews to give up their kosher beliefs. He is saying to all of us that human rules about food are not worth tearing up the kingdom of God. Jesus didn’t die for food, buildings, doctrines, clothes, or status; He died for mankind.

How about us today? How concerned are we with the unity of the body of Christ? Are we willing to forgo things in our own lives that may not be sin but are a hindrance to our brothers and sisters? Are we willing to put others ahead of ourselves and live as Christ lived?

REACT
What are some things in our own lives that may be a hindrance to other believers?
Where do we draw the line between compromise and unifying in the body of Christ?
Does God actually care about what we eat? (see 1 Cor. 3:19; 6:12–20; 2 Cor. 6:16).
J-Fiah Reeves, Houston, Texas, USA

wednesday
DECEMBER 27
Rom. 14:19, 22
How-to
How to Fix Your Neighbor


I tend to be a “fixer.” I see things others overlook. This includes crooked picture frames, wobbly door hinges, and dripping faucets. Each bothers me at a fundamental level because they’re not the way they should be.

An internal drive to improve the world is usually a good trait; but a problem can develop with this type of thinking. Jesus addressed it in His Sermon on the Mount. He first instructed the crowd not to judge. (In this sense, judging can be thought of as self-righteousness that makes others look worse so that we can look better.) Jesus then used dramatic language to make a memorable point: “ ‘Why do you look at the speck in your brother’s eye, but do not consider the plank in your own eye?’ ” (Matt. 7:3, NKJV).

Maybe it’s a question of magnitude—our own problems need fixing more than those of our friends.
Ellen G. White counseled believers on similar issues. In 1860, she wrote to her friends in Mansville, New York, offering advice to believers battling dissension in the church. While the issue didn’t concern food offered to idols or religious holidays, as in Romans 14, White offered an insight into the nature of this disagreement. She noted that the war waged by Satan against the remnant church is “often started among the brethren.”1 Further, she observed the coming of the war through members who “fall under the temptations of Satan and commence the war themselves.”2

Maybe this desire to improve those around us masks the true motivation for our behavior—we believe our convictions are better than those of our neighbors. Ellen White, Paul, and Jesus call us to look inward before looking outward, to respect others’ convictions as we would like ours to be respected, and to deal with our own problems before attempting to fix perceived problems in others. Maybe it’s a question of magnitude—our own problems need fixing more than those of our friends.

REACT
What are three situations in which a group’s or an individual’s convictions were imposed upon others?
What are the consequences of minimizing the convictions of others?
How do we engage others in ways that respect their right to freedom of choice while addressing the many misconceptions about God they may hold dear?
1. Ellen G. White, Letter 20, 1860.
2. Ibid.
David Deemer, Loma Linda, California, USA

thursday
DECEMBER 28
Eph. 5:8
Opinion
Faith Alone


I became a Seventh-day Adventist on April 19, 2014. God opened my eyes to the Truth at the perfect time. He is an on-time God, and His plan is far greater than any plan I could imagine. I’m the only Seventh-day Adventist in my family. I pray that one day my parents and brothers will realize what the truth is, and my role is to be that beacon of light that God uses to draw them to Him.

At twenty-three years old I was going through a divorce. I felt so empty and alone. I just wanted to cut everyone off and be in solitude. After this major event in my life, I didn’t want to be anywhere near a church. I stopped going completely. I asked myself why God would let this happen. My questions turned into anger, frustration, disappointment, and depression.

After this major event in my life, I didn’t want to be anywhere near a church.
My friends and family, who knew what I was going through, told me that everything would be OK. I didn’t want to hear anything that anyone had to say. How could they possibly know? They had no idea.

I started praying again and reading devotionals. I didn’t like the feeling of emptiness that filled my soul. I listened to my car radio and would hear uplifting stories or messages on how God was working in the lives of others. I know that God works things out for our good and His glory. Life on earth is not supposed to easy. God is here to lead us through the valleys.

I wanted to know God more and let Him control everything in my life. I started developing a relationship with God that I never had before. I released all my cares to Him and waited for Him to lead as I followed.

I want others to know that God never leaves you when all hope is lost. When I was at my lowest point, He was there. When I was struggling emotionally, He was there. God is always there.

To start my day, I read a verse in the Bible and recite it in my head throughout the day. I see the Bible as my compass that directs my mind, body, and soul. Day to day, we encounter obstacles in life such as disappointments, sadness, and loneliness. With those obstacles come triumphs, joys, and accomplishments.

Don’t be ashamed of your past. I need to focus on my relationship with Christ before I can let anybody else in. I’m blessed to have gone through this and to be able to look back and see how far I’ve come. Don’t give up on trusting God, despite your current situation. He can and will turn it around. Galatians 6:9 says, “Let us not grow weary while doing good, for in due season we shall reap if we do not lose heart” (NKJV).

Francine Eulizier, Wethersfield, Connecticut, USA

friday
DECEMBER 29
2 Cor. 5:18–20
Exploration
Reconciled?


CONCLUDE
Once we are reconciled with God, you’d think that it would be easier to be reconciled with those around us. This should be especially true for those who believe the same way that we do. Why is this often not the case? How can Christians become better unified and less concerned that we are all in the exact same spot on the spiritual journey that we are taking?

What can we do in our daily lives to live with mercy and tenderheartedness, with compassion and love, sharing joy, peace, and hope with those whom we meet and work with daily? Why do we need to do this? Is it to please God; or is it to humble ourselves so we can better reflect the character of Christ in our lives? What will the perfect reflection of Christ look like in you today?

CONSIDER
Journaling about how to be at peace with your enemies.
Creating a collage that illustrates ways that Christians can demonstrate unity with one another.
Reviewing situations where you did not feel in unity with fellow believers. What could you do differently in those situations?
Role-playing a scene where Christians are unified in one accord, and demonstrate how they would, with one voice, glorify God.
Discussing with your friends how to dialogue with those in your community who are different from you.
CONNECT
Ellen G. White, Help for Daily Living, pp. 23–53; Christian Service, pp. 35–49.
Jerry D. Thomas, A Thoughtful Hour 2: Living the Beatitudes (Pacific Press®, 2016).
Ashley M. Wagner, Union Springs, New York, USA