---
title:  The Greatest Relationship
date:   24/12/2017
---

**Logos**: Rom. 4:13; 5:1, 2; 10:1, 2

With the arrival of Christ on earth, perceptions of God changed dramatically. The “true Light” (John 1:9, NKJV) shone brightly on planet Earth, clearly revealing God’s character of love, which Satan had tried to hide in darkness. Christ came to show that salvation was not something to be earned by carefully following a rigid set of rules but, rather, “the gift of God, not of works” (Eph. 2:8, 9, NKJV), graciously given by the sacrifice of Jesus. Because our salvation is a gift of grace, then out of love we follow the guidelines given to us by God the Father and work to build a relationship with Him and His Son.

**Peace and Salvation Through Faith** (Rom. 5:1, 2)

In Romans, Paul is constantly asserting that salvation is achieved through faith in Jesus Christ and not through our own works. The Jews had led themselves to believe that counting their steps on the Sabbath, not mixing materials in their garments, being circumcised, being God’s chosen people, and the works of tradition would bring them salvation. But in Romans 5:1, Paul clears up their misconceptions by stating, “Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ” (NKJV). The peace he refers to is freedom from sin, a result of the sacrifice God made by sending His Son to die for our sins. By trusting and having faith in Christ’s merits and not our own, we, too, can “have access by faith into this grace” (Rom. 5:2, NKJV) and ensure our own salvation.

**Abraham’s Great Faith Example** (Rom. 4:13)

In Romans 4, Paul uses a well-known Old Testament story to illustrate the value of faith. He recounts the story of Abraham, bringing to his readers’ minds Abraham and Sarah’s struggle to have children. Despite the fact that Abraham was “a hundred years old” (Rom. 4:19, NKJV) and “Sarah’s womb was also dead” (Rom. 4:19, NIV) in her old age, God promised that they would have a child through whom many nations would be established and the bloodline of the Messiah would come. Many would have scoffed at that promise given their age; but Abraham “did not waver at the promise of God through unbelief” and was “fully convinced that what He [God] had promised He was also able to perform” (Rom. 4:20, 21, NKJV).

Paul illustrates the power of having a strong, unyielding faith in God and trusting in God’s ability to follow through with what He has promised. Abraham believed in the plan of the Lord and followed the instructions given to him. By trusting in God’s ability and not his own, he became the forefather to the “heir of the world” (Rom. 4:13, NKJV). God didn’t make the promise to Abraham “through the law” (verse 13, NKJV) or, in other words, because of Abraham’s works; rather, the promise was made “through the righteousness of faith” (verse 13, NKJV) or because Abraham believed.

Paul uses this story of Abraham’s faith as an illustration and confirmation of how righteousness and the sense of justification are attained. We need to remember to follow Abraham’s example, trusting in God’s plan and ability—even when it seems impossible. Imagine the blessings we have in store when we have faith!

**Build a Relationship with God** (Isa. 64:6; Romans 10)

In Romans 10, Paul discusses the components of faith necessary to achieve salvation through Jesus Christ. He begins the passage by acknowledging that the Israelites had zeal for God, but it was not “according to knowledge” (Rom. 10:2, NKJV), meaning it wasn’t based on an accurate understanding of Scripture. The Israelites, “ignorant of God’s righteousness, and seeking to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted to the righteousness of God” (Rom. 10:3, NKJV). This means that they attempted to secure salvation by their own works and trusting in their goodness, rather than trusting in God’s goodness. Faith means realizing that my “righteousnesses are as filthy rags” (Isa. 64:6) and asking Christ to place His pure garment of righteousness on me.

**React**

`How can you work on deepening your faith relationship with Jesus Christ?`

`What are the essential components of your relationship with God as you travel toward salvation?`

`What are some of your spiritual “works” of righteousness in which you trust above trusting in Christ’s righteousness?`

_Helena Herber, Saint Helena, California, USA_