---
title:  Deeper Unity
date:   26/12/2017
---

**Evidence**: Matt. 15:10–20; Rom. 14:14–23; 1 Corinthians 8

The Jews held the laws of Moses in high regard but held their additional traditional food laws in higher esteem. The Jews looked down on Gentiles because they did not keep these laws concerning food and washing. They even approached Jesus when they thought He was breaking them (Matthew 15). When Paul wrote to the Christians in Rome, he knew there were both Jews and Gentiles in the church. Paul was writing to Jews who felt threatened by this influx of Gentiles in the church and their expression of their faith in Jesus.

After discussing a multitude of topics, Paul finally addresses the eating practices of the Jews and Gentiles. Paul declares in Romans 14:14, “I know and am convinced by the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean of itself; but to him who considers anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean” (NKJV). This verse to the Jews might seem to be Paul’s defection to the side of the Gentiles, declaring their eating rules obsolete and only a matter of opinion; but Paul continues his discourse in verse 15: “Yet if your brother is grieved because of your food, you are no longer walking in love. Do not destroy with your food the one for whom Christ died” (NKJV). He goes on to say in verse 17, “For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit” (NKJV).

Rather than the actual food, Paul discusses a deeper matter: unity in the body of Christ. Paul is not telling the Gentiles to, all of a sudden, become kosher Christians; nor is he telling the Jews to give up their kosher beliefs. He is saying to all of us that human rules about food are not worth tearing up the kingdom of God. Jesus didn’t die for food, buildings, doctrines, clothes, or status; He died for mankind.

How about us today? How concerned are we with the unity of the body of Christ? Are we willing to forgo things in our own lives that may not be sin but are a hindrance to our brothers and sisters? Are we willing to put others ahead of ourselves and live as Christ lived?

**React**

`What are some things in our own lives that may be a hindrance to other believers?`

`Where do we draw the line between compromise and unifying in the body of Christ?`

`Does God actually care about what we eat? (see 1 Cor. 3:19; 6:12–20; 2 Cor. 6:16).`

_J-Fiah Reeves, Houston, Texas, USA_