---
title:  How to Fix Your Neighbor
date:   27/12/2017
---

**How-to**: Rom. 14:19, 22

I tend to be a “fixer.” I see things others overlook. This includes crooked picture frames, wobbly door hinges, and dripping faucets. Each bothers me at a fundamental level because they’re not the way they should be.

An internal drive to improve the world is usually a good trait; but a problem can develop with this type of thinking. Jesus addressed it in His Sermon on the Mount. He first instructed the crowd not to judge. (In this sense, judging can be thought of as self-righteousness that makes others look worse so that we can look better.) Jesus then used dramatic language to make a memorable point: “ ‘Why do you look at the speck in your brother’s eye, but do not consider the plank in your own eye?’ ” (Matt. 7:3, NKJV).

Ellen G. White counseled believers on similar issues. In 1860, she wrote to her friends in Mansville, New York, offering advice to believers battling dissension in the church. While the issue didn’t concern food offered to idols or religious holidays, as in Romans 14, White offered an insight into the nature of this disagreement. She noted that the war waged by Satan against the remnant church is “often started among the brethren.”<sup>1</sup> Further, she observed the coming of the war through members who “fall under the temptations of Satan and commence the war themselves.”<sup>2</sup>

Maybe this desire to improve those around us masks the true motivation for our behavior—we believe our convictions are better than those of our neighbors. Ellen White, Paul, and Jesus call us to look inward before looking outward, to respect others’ convictions as we would like ours to be respected, and to deal with our own problems before attempting to fix perceived problems in others. Maybe it’s a question of magnitude—our own problems need fixing more than those of our friends.

**React**

`What are three situations in which a group’s or an individual’s convictions were imposed upon others?`

`What are the consequences of minimizing the convictions of others?`

`How do we engage others in ways that respect their right to freedom of choice while addressing the many misconceptions about God they may hold dear?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Letter 20, 1860.</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid.</sup>

_David Deemer, Loma Linda, California, USA_