---
title:  Faith Alone
date:   28/12/2017
---

**Opinion**: Eph. 5:8

I became a Seventh-day Adventist on April 19, 2014. God opened my eyes to the Truth at the perfect time. He is an on-time God, and His plan is far greater than any plan I could imagine. I’m the only Seventh-day Adventist in my family. I pray that one day my parents and brothers will realize what the truth is, and my role is to be that beacon of light that God uses to draw them to Him.

At twenty-three years old I was going through a divorce. I felt so empty and alone. I just wanted to cut everyone off and be in solitude. After this major event in my life, I didn’t want to be anywhere near a church. I stopped going completely. I asked myself why God would let this happen. My questions turned into anger, frustration, disappointment, and depression.

My friends and family, who knew what I was going through, told me that everything would be OK. I didn’t want to hear anything that anyone had to say. How could they possibly know? They had no idea.

I started praying again and reading devotionals. I didn’t like the feeling of emptiness that filled my soul. I listened to my car radio and would hear uplifting stories or messages on how God was working in the lives of others. I know that God works things out for our good and His glory. Life on earth is not supposed to easy. God is here to lead us through the valleys.

I wanted to know God more and let Him control everything in my life. I started developing a relationship with God that I never had before. I released all my cares to Him and waited for Him to lead as I followed.

I want others to know that God never leaves you when all hope is lost. When I was at my lowest point, He was there. When I was struggling emotionally, He was there. God is always there.

To start my day, I read a verse in the Bible and recite it in my head throughout the day. I see the Bible as my compass that directs my mind, body, and soul. Day to day, we encounter obstacles in life such as disappointments, sadness, and loneliness. With those obstacles come triumphs, joys, and accomplishments.

Don’t be ashamed of your past. I need to focus on my relationship with Christ before I can let anybody else in. I’m blessed to have gone through this and to be able to look back and see how far I’ve come. Don’t give up on trusting God, despite your current situation. He can and will turn it around. Galatians 6:9 says, “Let us not grow weary while doing good, for in due season we shall reap if we do not lose heart” (NKJV).

_Francine Eulizier, Wethersfield, Connecticut, USA_