---
title:  Reconciled?
date:   29/12/2017
---

**Exploration**: 2 Cor. 5:18–20

**Conclude**

Once we are reconciled with God, you’d think that it would be easier to be reconciled with those around us. This should be especially true for those who believe the same way that we do. Why is this often not the case? How can Christians become better unified and less concerned that we are all in the exact same spot on the spiritual journey that we are taking?

What can we do in our daily lives to live with mercy and tenderheartedness, with compassion and love, sharing joy, peace, and hope with those whom we meet and work with daily? Why do we need to do this? Is it to please God; or is it to humble ourselves so we can better reflect the character of Christ in our lives? What will the perfect reflection of Christ look like in you today?

**Consider**

- Journaling about how to be at peace with your enemies.
- Creating a collage that illustrates ways that Christians can demonstrate unity with one another.
- Reviewing situations where you did not feel in unity with fellow believers. What could you do differently in those situations?
- Role-playing a scene where Christians are unified in one accord, and demonstrate how they would, with one voice, glorify God.
- Discussing with your friends how to dialogue with those in your community who are different from you.

**Connect**

1. Ellen G. White, Help for Daily Living, pp. 23–53; Christian Service, pp. 35–49.
2. Jerry D. Thomas, A Thoughtful Hour 2: Living the Beatitudes (Pacific Press®, 2016).

_Ashley M. Wagner, Union Springs, New York, USA+