---
title: 'Testing the Next Generation'
date: 14/12/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Judges 1, 2

**Testing the Next Generation**

On August 9, 2011, Apple Inc. became the largest company in the world by market cap. The company had reached the pinnacle of success under the strong leadership of Steve Jobs, who had guided the development of groundbreaking Apple products such as the iPod, iPhone, and iPad. However, within weeks of the company reaching this incredible milestone, Steve Jobs stepped down as CEO because of a debilitating relapse of pancreatic cancer. When Steve Jobs passed away on October 5 of that year, businesspeople around the world debated how well Apple Inc. would be able to continue its legacy under the leadership of Steve Jobs’ successor, Tim Cook. Naturally, some things changed under Cook’s leadership, but one major thing hasn’t: Apple Inc. remains one of the most valuable companies in the world.

Whenever people lose a strong leader, the next generation must decide whether they will continue the mission and embrace their predecessors’ values. The book of Joshua ends with the nation of Israel in a position of strength, ready to complete the work God had given them. What happens next is like watching a train wreck in slow motion. The book of Judges summarizes Israel’s condition at the end of Joshua’s life and narrates the following events. It shows what happens when God’s people choose partial obedience instead of entire consecration.

Faced with a choice between continuing the conquest or settling for immediate ease, Israel chose the easy path and relaxed right where they were. They became comfortable peacefully cohabitating with Canaanite tribes who were in rebellion against God. Surrounded by idolatry, it wasn’t long before they succumbed to its allure. God had expressly commanded them, “For my Angel will go before you and bring you in to the Amorites and the Hittites and the Perizzites and the Canaanites and the Hivites and the Jebusites; and I will cut them off. You shall not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do according to their works; but you shall utterly overthrow them and completely break down their sacred pillars” (Exod. 23:23, 24). God’s purpose for Israel was far reaching. They were settled in Canaan to be a light to the entire world. If they had made the effort to conquer their immediate neighbors, God would’ve given them greater victories over more powerful enemies. God’s purpose was for continued growth, yet Israel thwarted that purpose by choosing complacency.

The result was a vicious, devastating cycle that’s repeated with painful regularity throughout the book of Judges. The first step of compromise was marrying idol worshipers. As Psalm 106:35 describes it, “they mingled with the Gentiles and learned their works.” One bad choice led to another and then to another. Marrying Canaanites introduced idol worship and made it convenient, which led to truly despicable ritualistic practices: “They served their idols, which became a snare to them. They even sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons, and shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan” (Ps. 106:36–38). Intermarriage and idolatry opened the door to the most corrupt and abhorrent practices.

From one generation to the next, Israel sank deeper and deeper into idolatry and turned further and further from God. It became a generational cycle of apostasy, being subjugated by their enemies, repenting, and then being delivered and living in freedom until apostasy took hold of them again. The very nations God would’ve helped them subdue became their overlords, repeatedly oppressing them from one generation to the next. However, despite their unfaithfulness, God did not abandon Israel. Though He allowed them to reap the consequences of their choices, He did deliver them. Judges is a book filled with trauma, despair, and the awful consequences of sin. However, it also reveals the love and mercy of God toward a people who did not love Him. Ultimately, it’s a book about choices and the lasting impact they have on our lives.

### inScribe

_Write out Judges 2:11–23 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map all of Judges 1 and 2._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `