---
title: 'Entangled in Sin'
date: 15/12/2025
---

### inGest

Toxic cycles can be hard to break. Broken and sinful as we are, it’s only natural that many of us become trapped in addictive behaviors and unhealthy relationships. Healing is possible, but only if we’re willing to recognize the problem and take active steps to remedy it.

Israel became stuck in a destructive pattern that spanned generations. The slide into apostasy was gradual. Living among communities steeped in idolatry drew Israel to take up heathen practices. They married Canaanites, adopted their customs, and assimilated their cultural habits (Judg. 3:5, 6). God had warned them against idolatry, yet they became entangled deeper and deeper in idolatrous practices as time went on. Sometimes they temporarily came back to the Lord, but then “reverted and behaved more corruptly than their fathers, by following other gods, to serve them and bow down to them” (2:19). It was a cycle of their own making. Eventually, they lost their distinct identity as God’s people.

The Canaanite lifestyle probably looked alluring. At the very least, it was wildly different from what the Israelites were accustomed to, and it must have piqued their curiosity. When they made their first compromise with the surrounding cultures, they probably would’ve been shocked to know how low they would eventually sink. Idolatry would lead them into such a terrible corruption that they would one day sacrifice their own children to idols. On some levels, the story is hard to explain. How could a nation that had experienced such incredible manifestations of God’s power not only turn away from Him to worship powerless, inanimate objects but also sacrifice their own flesh and blood to those objects? They had been seduced into the most corrupt, wicked practices.

Israel fell into sin because their love for God was weak. “They forsook the LORD God of their fathers” (Judg. 2:12). They knew the truth, but they didn’t love it enough to embrace it. Because they didn’t keep their love for God and His truth strong, they were destined for deception. The temptation is just as real today. We too are in danger of excusing sin and forsaking God just as the Israelites did. The Bible warns about people who are deceived “because they did not receive the love of the truth, that they might be saved” (2 Thess. 2:10). The Israelites’ story should prompt us to take a long, hard look at our own stories. Are we stuck in cycles of sin? Do we want to break free? It’s never too late to reach out to Jesus for help.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`How can you break free from destructive cycles of sin?`