---
title: 'The First Chair'
date: 18/12/2025
---

### inVite

Things did not deteriorate immediately after Joshua’s death. The elders who knew Joshua continued to serve the Lord faithfully because they remembered all that God had done for him (Judg. 2:7). However, something was missing. Although these elders didn’t bow to idols, they didn’t embrace the mission as Joshua had. Whereas Joshua stepped forward and led the conquest of Canaan in obedience to God’s commands, the elders left the job unfished. Joshua was a man of action. In contrast, the elders who outlived him rested easily. They didn’t require their children to make the same commitment to God as Joshua had required from them. They lacked the depth of commitment that would’ve left a lasting impression on their children.

The elders’ children were the ones who slid into idolatry. Imagine that each generation is represented by a chair. The first chair represents Joshua, who personally knew God and His power. The second chair represents the elders, who knew about God and His power. The third chair represents the elders’ children, who did not know God or His power. It’s a striking example of why it’s essential for every generation to have their own living and personal connection with God. After a great leader leaves the scene, it’s easy for the next generation’s faith to become less vibrant and for the third and fourth generation to completely lose their spiritual identity. We cannot depend on the faith of our parents or grandparents. There’s a saying that goes, “God does not have any grandchildren.” God cannot be just the God of our fathers (Judg. 2:12); He must be our God personally.

No one should be content to sit in the second or third chair. We should all desire to sit in that first chair, where we make a full and uncompromising commitment to God and have a living connection with Him. In this chair, our faith is not merely theoretical. In this chair, our influence on the next generation is deep and lasting.

Jesus came to this world so that each one of us can know God personally. “And this is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom You have sent” (John 17:3). Jesus warned that in the day of judgment, some will be surprised to learn they didn’t know God when they thought they had. In the parable of the ten virgins, the foolish virgins are shocked and dismayed to hear, “Assuredly, I say to you, I do not know you” (Matt. 25:12). None of us should rest satisfied with a theoretical or distant knowledge of God. We should earnestly seek a living connection with God today.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`Which chair do you sit in? What do you need to do to move to the first chair?`