---
title: inQuire
date: 20/12/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**The next generation:**

1. How did the elders who outlived Joshua prepare the way for national apostasy? _Read Judg. 2:1–6._
2. In what ways did the elders who outlived Joshua remain faithful to God? _Read Judg. 2:7–12._
3. What were the differences between Joshua and the elders who came after him?
4. How were the elders’ children different from their fathers? _Read Judg. 2:11–19._
5. How can someone who’s born into a Christian home form a vibrant connection with God rather than just being a cultural Christian because of family tradition?
6. How can we do a better job of passing our faith to the next generation?

`Personal reflection: Why do you think many people growing up in the church give up their faith in God when they get older?`

**Understanding the sin of idolatry:**

1. Why is the sin of idolatry so degrading and demoralizing? _Consider Jer. 2:11–13; Rom. 1:23, 24._
2. What are some modern examples of idolatry that tempt us today? _See Acts 14:11–15; Phil. 3:19; Col. 3:5._

`Personal reflection: How do we guard our hearts against idolatry and remain faithful to God?`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- None of us can rely on the faith of our parents or grandparents. We must personally know God.
- Being a Christian just because of culture or family tradition is not good enough. We need our own vibrant connection with God.
- Idolatry is anything that diverts my allegiance from God.