### The War Between God and Satan

What if someone asked you, “What is the most important idea in the Bible?” What would be your answer? Jesus? God’s plan to save sinners? The Cross? All these topics are important. But they are part of an even bigger topic in the Bible: the worldwide war between good and evil.

This war started in heaven when Lucifer fought against God. What is this war really all about? The answer may surprise you: God’s love. Is God a God of love? Does He care about the health and happiness of the ones He made? Or does He care only about Himself and expect everyone to obey Him without question?

This quarter’s Bible study guide seeks to answer these questions. We also will look at human history from God’s view. The Bible shows us God’s view of history. We will study what the Bible has to say about God’s view of history. God is love. So, everything He does is loving, even if humans or angels can’t always understand His actions. We see God’s love more and more as the war between good and evil continues to happen. We see God’s love the most at the cross. At Calvary, God showed His love to everyone in heaven and on earth when Jesus poured out His life to save us. At the cross, Jesus won the fight against Satan. The Cross is a promise that God will destroy sin and the devil forever.

In the meantime, the war between good and evil continues. Satan tried to destroy Jesus on the cross. After that, Satan tried to destroy God’s people. Satan has hurt God’s church and killed millions of Christians. But God has always been with His people. He never will leave them.

This quarter, we will look at what already has happened in the worldwide war between God and Satan. We will start with the war in heaven with Lucifer. We will examine the important topics in this war. We also will read about the courage of the Waldenses. The Waldenses stayed loyal to God when Satan used the church to attack them for their faith. We will learn about the Protestant leaders who took a strong stand for Bible truth. These leaders stayed loyal to God and the Bible when they were tortured, put in chains, burned alive, or killed.

Ellen G. White talks about these heroes of faith. She says, “The Bible showed these men God’s plan for their lives. They compared every new teaching and all ideas with Bible truth. These holy men had faith in God and in the Bible. Faith and Bible truth kept these men strong when they were burned alive in fire.”—The Great Controversy, page 249.

This quarter, we will look at the lives of some of these heroes of the Protestant Reformation: Wycliffe, Huss, Jerome, Luther, and Wesley. The Protestant Reformation was the time during the 1500s in Europe when religious leaders made big changes to the Catholic religion. These leaders rejected the false teachings of the Catholic Church. The changes they made led to the start of the Protestant churches. The leaders of the Protestant Reformation believed that God saves us with His mercy because of Jesus. Later on, William Miller accepted this idea and started to preach that Jesus was coming back in the year 1844.

God started the Seventh-day Adventist Church. God built this church on the important rules and beliefs of the Protestant Reformation. God has a very special plan for the Seventh-day Adventist Church in the end times. God wants the church to announce and teach important Bible truths that were hidden for hundreds of years. God also gave the Seventh-day Adventist Church the job of announcing to everyone on earth the Three Angels’ Messages of Revelation 14:6–12. These messages are God’s final warning to a ­planet that is soon to come to an end.

Satan hates the Three Angels’ Messages. In the book of Revelation, John uses a dragon as a word picture for Satan: “Then the dragon was very angry at the woman. He went off to make war against all her other children. Her children are those who obey God’s commands and have the truth that Jesus taught” (Revelation 12:17, ICB). We will study the final things that happen in the war between God and Satan. We will learn how God’s love will win over Satan and his army of evil angels. After Satan and his followers are destroyed, God will make the skies and earth brand new.

We will study what the Bible says about how human history will end. We also will use the book The Great Controversy, by Ellen G. White, as our outline for studying about the war between God and Satan. At the start of each lesson, we will tell you which chapters in The Great Controversy to read for further study. May we all come to know more fully “the love of Christ. His love goes beyond anything we can understand. I pray that you will be filled with God Himself” (Ephesians 3:19, NLV). Paul’s prayer for his readers is our prayer for each of you, too, dear readers.

_Mark Finley was born in the state of Connecticut in the United States of America. He has preached in many different countries worldwide. He worked as a top leader at the General Conference from 2005 to 2010. The General Conference is the headquarters for the Seventh-day Adventist Church. After Pastor Finley retired from full-time work, he worked part-time for the president of the General Conference. Pastor Finley and his wife, Ernestine, have three children and five grandchildren._