---
title:  God With Us
date:  02/12/2020
---

#### inVite

Jesus Himself is the fulfillment of everything the sanctuary seeks to teach.

“His name shall be called Immanuel, . . . God with us.” “The light of the knowledge of the glory of God” is seen “in the face of Jesus Christ.” From the days of eternity the Lord Jesus Christ was one with the Father; He was “the image of God,” the image of His greatness and majesty, “the outshining of His glory.” It was to manifest this glory that He came to our world. To this sin-darkened earth He came to reveal the light of God’s love,—to be “God with us.” Therefore it was prophesied of Him, “His name shall be called Immanuel” (The Desire of Ages, 19).

From the beginning of creation, it has always been God’s purpose to be one with His people. In the beginning He was revealed in all of creation—the heavens, the earth, the mountains, flowers, and streams. All these pointed to the Father’s great love for us. Earth was His sanctuary, and He shared it with us. When sin tried to erase God’s perfect handwriting, hints of God’s love still lingered. For example, though roses now have thorns, they still carry the fragrance of God’s love for His children.

With the entrance of sin, the seed of Satan’s selfishness took root in the heart of humanity. To manifest the love of the Father once again, God declared to Moses, “Let them make Me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them” (Ex. 25:8). The purpose of the sanctuary was to turn the eyes of God’s people to His Son. Although the sanctuary was a great model of God’s purpose to make us holy, it had a major lack. “For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats could take away sins” (Heb. 10:4). Therefore, “Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!” (John 1:29).

Finally, turning away from all shadows and figures, we have God with us in Jesus Christ. The I AM not only became one of us but also pitched His tent among us. He planted Himself in our experience. Through His sacrifice, He became like us so that through our sacrifice, we might become like Him (Rom. 12:1, 2). When the great plan of redemption is complete and sin has been eradicated, one thing will remain: “ ‘Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He will dwell with them, and they shall be His people. God Himself with be with them and be their God’ ” (Rev. 21:3). Amen!

``