---
title:  'Abraham: The Man Of Faith'
date:  30/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 12:1–9; Genesis 12:10–20; Genesis 13:1–18; Genesis 14:1–17; Genesis 14:18–24.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “God called [commanded] Abraham to travel to another place that he promised to give him. Abraham did not know where that other place was. But he obeyed God and started traveling because he had faith” (Hebrews 11:8, ERV).

THE STORY ABOUT ABRAHAM is at the center of the book of Genesis. We read this story in chapters 12–22. These chapters show us the first time that God commands Abraham to go. In answer to this command, Abraham leaves his country (Genesis 12:1). Abraham also must leave his past life behind. Later, God commands Abraham to go again. This time, God commands Abraham to go up a mountain and give Him Isaac, his son, as a burnt offering (Genesis 22:2). Isaac is the future hope of Abraham. So, when God asks Abraham to go kill Isaac, this command shows us that God asks Abraham to let go of his future, too. With no past and no future, Abraham always travels from place to place. That is why Abraham is also named a “stranger” (Genesis 17:8, NLV).

Twice in his life, Abraham is asked to do something big: first at the beginning of his life and then at the end. Along the way, Abraham obeys God, who tells him: “ ‘Do not be afraid’ ” (Genesis 15:1, NKJV). That is why Old Testament writers remember Abraham as the man of faith (Nehemiah 9:7, 8). In the New Testament, many writers talk about Abraham, too. This week, we will start to see why.