---
title:  Abraham Leaves 
date:  01/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Abram in Genesis 12:1–9. Why does God command Abram to leave his country and family? How does Abram answer the command?`

The last time we read in the Bible about God talking to a human is with Noah. God tells Noah that He will make an agreement with every living thing on the earth (Genesis 9:15–17). God promises never to destroy the earth again with a worldwide flood. Now God makes a new promise to Abram: “ ‘I will use you to bless all the people on earth’ ” (Genesis 9:3, ERV).

God starts to keep His promise when Abram leaves his past behind. Abram leaves everything he knows: his family, his country, and part of himself. First, Abram leaves Ur in Babylon, which is the country where he lived (Genesis 11:31; Isaiah 13:19). Elsewhere in the Bible we see that God commands His people to leave Babylon (Isaiah 48:20; Revelation 18:4).

So, Abram must leave his country. Second, Abram also must leave behind much of the ideas and education that he learned growing up.

At the same time, the command of God to Abram to leave includes much more. The Hebrew words for “go” are “lekh lekha.” These words really mean “go yourself” or “go for yourself.” So, these words show us that Abram must leave “for” himself. But he also must leave “himself.” What does that mean? It means that Abram must leave his past. He must get rid of the part of himself connected to Babylon.

God needs Abram to leave his past and his country so that God can show him a new land. This promise of a new land is more than a country on this earth. This promise is about the plan of God to save everyone on earth who will believe in Him: “ ‘I will build a great nation [people group] from you. I will bless you and make your name famous. People will use your name to bless other people. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse those who curse you. I will use you to bless all the people on earth’ ” (Genesis 12:2, 3, ERV). The Savior is the blessing that God will give to everyone on earth (Acts 3:25). This blessing will come to us from the family line of Abraham. (Genesis 22:18; Genesis 26:4; Genesis 28:14).