---
title:  Abram In Egypt 
date:  02/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Abram in Genesis 12:10–20. Why dose Abram leave the Promised Land to go to Egypt? Compare the behavior of Abram with the behavior of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. How does each man behave?`

Shortly after Abram arrives in the Promised Land, he decides to leave it. Then Abram goes to Egypt. The Bible tells us why. “During this time there was not enough food in the land, so Abram went down to Egypt to live” (Genesis 12:10, ERV).

The Bible shows us the Israelites often wanted to go to Egypt when their hearts were not right with God (Numbers 14:3). Then the Israelites got into trouble when they got there (Jeremiah 2:18). So, Egypt became a word picture for humans trusting in humans, and not in God (2 Kings 18:21; Isaiah 36:6, 9).

Compare the Abram who now leaves Canaan to go to Egypt with the Abram who left Ur. The Abram who left Ur is a man of faith. He left His country in answer to the command of God. Now, Abram leaves the Promised Land behind. The Abram who left Ur depended on God. Now Abram behaves the same as a king who thinks only about himself and does whatever he wants. “During his stay in Egypt, Abraham shows human weakness. He shows that his heart is not perfect with God. Abraham hides from Pharaoh important information about Sarah. Abraham does not tell Pharaoh that Sarah is his wife. This behavior shows that Abraham does not trust God to take care of him. This behavior is so different from his usual faith and courage that he showed in his life.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 130, adapted.

What we see here, then, is how a strong man of God can make a mistake. But does God turn away from him? Not at all. God shows Abram His mercy and loving favor. Now we understand better what the New Testament means when it says that Abraham is an example of how we are saved. We are saved only by the mercy of God. If God did not save us by His mercy, then Abraham and all the rest of us have no hope of being saved at all.

`Is it easy for Christians to turn from God and do the wrong thing? Explain. Why is our choice to disobey God never a good choice? What does the story about Abram in Egypt teach us about the answers to these questions?`