---
title:  Abram And Lot 
date:  03/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Abram in Genesis 13:1–18. What does this story teach us about Abram? How does his behavior show us what is in his heart?`

Abram goes back to Canaan. His first stop is Bethel (Genesis 13:3). Abram stopped in Bethel on his first trip to Canaan (Genesis 12:3–6). So, this trip to Bethel shows us that Abram turns from his sin. He is now Abram, the man of faith again.

Abram grows close to God. Their close friendship shows in the way that Abram behaves and solves problems. Soon, a problem happens between Abram and Lot about the land. Abram solves the problem in a calm, loving way. He suggests a peaceful agreement to Lot. Abram allows Lot to choose first where he wants to live (Genesis 13:9, 10). This kind offer shows us that the love of God lives in the heart of Abram.

Lot chooses the best part of the land “for himself” (Genesis 13:11; see also verse 10). Lot does not worry that this land is filled with evil men (Genesis 13:13). The choice of Lot shows us that he has a greedy heart. The words “for himself” (Genesis 13:11) help us remember the people who lived before the Flood. These people also chose all the wives that they wanted (read Genesis 6:2).

Abram does not choose the land he lives in. God gives him the land. Abram looks at this land only because God tells him to do so (Genesis 13:14). God talks to Abram again only after Abram separates from Lot (Genesis 13:14). As far as we know, God has not talked with Abram since he left Ur. Now God says to Abram, “ ‘Look around you. Look north, south, east, west. All this land that you see I will give to you and your people who live after you. This will be your land forever’ ” (Genesis 13:14, 15, ERV). Then God invites Abram to walk on this land to show that he is the owner. “ ‘Go! Walk through the land. See how long and wide it is. I am giving it to you’ ” (Genesis 13:17, NIrV).

The Lord makes sure that Abram knows that the land is a gift from Him. This gift shows Abram the mercy and love of God. Abram must accept this mercy by faith. His faith in the mercy of God will lead him to obey God.

`Think about kind Abram and greedy Lot. How can we learn to be kind and loving to other people who are not very kind and loving to us?`