---
title:  The Babel Group 
date:  04/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read about the war in Genesis 14:1–17. This war happens shortly after God gives Abram the Promised Land. What does this story teach us about Abram?`

This is the first war that the Bible talks about (Genesis 14:2). The four armies from Mesopotamia and Persia fight against the five Canaanite armies. The Canaanites include the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah (Genesis 14:8). So, this fight was big (Genesis 14:9). Why are the two groups fighting? Because the Canaanites fought against the control of the kings of Mesopotamia and Persia (Genesis 14:4, 5). These kings came from Babylonia. This “worldwide” war happens just after God gives Abram Canaan as a gift. So, we see that this war is more than something that happened in human history. This war has a spiritual meaning, too.

As we said, many people groups from the land of Canaan fight in this war. The large number of people shows us that the war is about who owns and controls the land. The funny thing is that the people who fight for control of the land do not own the land. The real owner of the land is Abram.

At first, Abram does not join the fight. He wants to show that he did not get the Promised Land by fighting for it. Abram got the land as a gift from God. The only reason that Abram joins the fight is because his nephew is taken prisoner by the army from Babylonia (Genesis 14:12, 13).

“At the time of the war, Abram lives in the forest of oaks at Mamre. Abram learns about the war from someone who escaped the fighting. This person tells Abram about what happened to his nephew. Lot did not show Abram enough thanks in the past. But Abram does not hold any anger in his heart against Lot. The love of Abram for His nephew is strong. Abram decides to save his nephew. First, Abram asks God for help. Then Abram gets ready for war.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 135, adapted.

Abram does not fight the whole army. He attacks only the camp where Lot is a prisoner. Abram saves Lot and the king of Sodom. Abram shows courage and strength. For sure, the fame of Abram grows in the land. People hear the news about how Abram saves the king. This story teaches them something more about the God that Abram serves.

`What do our actions teach other people about the God that we serve?`