---
title:  Abram Gives Melchizedek One-Tenth 
date:  05/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Abram and Melchizedek in Genesis 14:18–24. Who is Melchizedek? Why does Abram give Melchizedek one-tenth of everything from the war?`

The sudden coming of Melchizedek is not strange at all. After the Canaanite kings thank Abram, Abram now thanks Melchizedek. Melchizedek is a priest, or religious leader. Abram shows Melchizedek his thanks by paying tithe to him, or one-tenth of everything he gets from the war.

Melchizedek comes from the city of Salem. Salem means “peace.” This name is an important message after the war. The other part of the name of Melchizedek is from the Hebrew word “tsedek.” “Tsedek” means “what is fair or right.” Compare the name of Melchizedek with the names of the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah. The king of Sodom is named King Bera. Bera means “in evil” in the Hebrew language. The king of Gomorrah is named King Birsha. Birsha means “in sin” in the Hebrew language. For sure, these names show us much about these men. Their names are word pictures for the evil and sin in their cities (Genesis 14:2).

Melchizedek shows up after Abram beats the kings of Babylonia and reverses the evil things they do. Genesis 14:18–24 also shows us the first time the Bible uses the word “priest” (Genesis 14:18). Melchizedek is connected with “God Most High” (Genesis 14:18, ERV). Abram announces that this God is his God, too (Genesis 14:22). So, Abram accepts Melchizedek as priest of God. Melchizedek is not Jesus. Melchizedek is a servant of God among the people at that time (read Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 1, pages 1092, 1093, adapted.

As a priest, Melchizedek serves bread and wine. The wine is fresh grape juice (Deuteronomy 7:13; 2 Chronicles 31:5). Later, the Bible connects the juice with the tithe again (Deuteronomy 14:23). In the Genesis story, Melchizedek also blesses Abram (Genesis 14:19).

“Then Abram gave Melchizedek a tenth of everything” (Genesis 14:20, NIrV). Abram gives this tithe to Melchizedek to show his thanks to God, “who made heaven and earth” (Genesis 14:23, ERV). So, Abram shows that we give tithe to God because God owns everything (Hebrews 7:2–6; compare with Genesis 28:22). Tithe is not a gift to God. Tithe is a gift from God. Everything we own comes from Him.