---
title:  Further Thought
date:  06/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Abraham in Canaan,” pages 134–136.

“Jesus wants His church to be a blessing. Jesus will bless church members as they bless other people. God chose a special people as His own. He adopted them as His sons and daughters. God wished to bless the people on the earth by the blessings that He gave to His people. The Lord chose Abraham to be His special friend. God also chose to give many blessings to Abraham. God wanted Abraham to share these blessings with the people around him. Abraham was the same as a bright light in the dark.

“God blesses His children with light and Bible truth. God wants them to share this light with the people around them. . . . Jesus says to His followers, “ ‘You are the salt of the earth’ ” [Matthew 5:13, ERV]. God makes His children the same as salt so that He may save them. But not only them. God makes them the same as salt so that they may help Him save other people, too. . . .

“Do you shine as living stones in the building of God? . . . Our religion is not real unless it controls every part of our lives. We should bring our religion into everything we do. We must allow the mercy of Jesus to change our hearts. We need much less of self, and more of Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, Reflecting Christ, page 205, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Look at the blessing that God gives to Abraham: “ ‘I will bless you. . . . You will be a blessing to others [peoples]’ ” (Genesis 12:2). What does it mean to be blessed? How can we be a blessing to other people?`

`Abram lied to the King of Egypt about Sarah. Part of his lie had some truth in it. What is worse, lying or saying some truth and mixing it with a lie? Explain.`

`Read again the answer of Abram to the king of Sodom (Genesis 14:21–23). Why does Abram answer the king the way he does? What important lesson does this story teach us? Do you think Abram should take what the king offers him? Why, or why not?`