---
title:  A Hope or a Promise?
date:  07/09/2019
---

**Introduction**: Titus 2:12, 13

Like most of us, I hope that one day I will get married. It is a nice dream, and I look forward to seeing it fulfilled. There are things that I can do to prepare for this step in life, but a person can go only so far. I can get an education, learn life skills, and continue to grow in my walk with the Lord, but other steps in preparation will have to wait till later.

But what if I get engaged? I would still be hoping to get married, but there’s a difference now: promise. It has been promised to me that I will get married. Now I will buy a dress, make wedding arrangements, maybe look for good deals on kitchen appliances, and prepare to move to a new home. See the difference? Before, I had only a hope to get married, but when I had a promise that I would get married, everything changed.

What about us in our Christian walk? Do we simply hope that Jesus is coming again, or do we have a promise? The Bible says it’s a promise. Jesus Himself said, “I will come again” (John 14:3). This is something we can truly put confidence in. But if our belief in Christ does not govern every thought and action, do we really believe it? His words are so powerful that it is impossible to fully embrace this promise without it changing every aspect of our existence. It will change how we live. It will change our perspective and our actions. It will change how we interact with other people.

For far too many Christians today, and yes, even Seventh-day Adventists, Christianity is just a convenient culture. It governs the things we do, where we go, what we listen to, and what we watch only when it conveniently aligns with our preferences. We choose to do what we like and hope that God will be OK with it. We become very selfish in our mind-set and care only about making ourselves successful. We forget that there is a world to reach, and not much time to do it. And the world to reach is not just in a remote jungle. It can be in our communities, schools, churches, and associations.

Do you live to show others how the promise of Jesus’ soon return has changed your life, or do you hope that someone else will share the light? We have a duty to spread this good news to everyone, especially the least of these, so that they can also be saved in His kingdom. We are called to live this hope—this promise—every day of our lives!

---

_Lesa Downs, Missouri, USA_