---
title:  "People of the Book: Keep Reading"
date:  09/09/2019
---

**Testimony**: Matt. 25:40

Many of us have a wealth of experience in discussing Matthew 24 within a variety of contexts—evangelistic seminars, small group Bible studies, and Sabbath afternoon conversations, for instance. But we would do well to devote just as much time and attention to chapter 25, especially the latter half. Feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, healing the sick, and visiting the lonely mean just as much (if not more) to our preparation for eternity as does being keenly aware of apocalyptic signs.

“Those whom Christ commends in the judgment may have known little of theology, but they have cherished His principles. . . . Among the heathen are those who worship God ignorantly, those to whom the light is never brought by human instrumentality, yet they will not perish. Though ignorant of the written law of God, they have heard His voice speaking to them in nature, and have done the things that the law required. Their works are evidence that the Holy Spirit has touched their hearts, and they are recognized as the children of God. “How surprised and gladdened will be the lowly among the nations, and among the heathen, to hear from the lips of the Saviour, ‘Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these My brethren, ye have done it unto Me’! How glad will be the heart of Infinite Love as His followers look up with surprise and joy at His words of approval!”1

“Love to man is the earthward manifestation of the love of God. It was to implant this love, to make us children of one family, that the King of glory became one with us. And when His parting words are fulfilled, ‘Love one another, as I have loved you’ (John 15:12); when we love the world as He has loved it, then for us His mission is accomplished. We are fitted for heaven; for we have heaven in our hearts.”2

**React**

`1. What is the ideal motivation for exercising loving service to others, even—especially—those who are particularly difficult to love?`

`2. Are there any connections between meeting people’s needs and proclaiming the three angels’ messages and other missives of prophetic import?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 638.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 641.</sup>

_John Simon, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_