---
title:  The Patience of the Saints
date:  10/09/2019
---

**Evidence**: Hab. 1:2; Luke 18:1–8; Rev. 21:1–5

God’s people have looked forward to the end of sin ever since Adam and Eve were kicked out of the Garden of Eden. When God made them leave the Garden, He made known to them His plan for Jesus to come someday and die in their place.

Throughout the centuries and millennia, the faith of God’s people in the blessed hope fluctuated. Even the prophet Habakkuk experienced this. Within the first few verses of the book that bears his name, the prophet cried, “O Lord, how long shall I cry, and thou wilt not hear! Even cry out unto thee of violence, and thou wilt not save!” (Hab. 1:2).

Habakkuk didn’t understand why God wasn’t dealing with the sins of his day. But in Luke 18, Jesus told a parable that helps to answer Habakkuk’s question. No doubt, many of us share the same question today. In this parable, there is a woman who is a widow. She went to a judge and continued going time after time. And time after time, she was rejected.

Eventually, the judge took care of her problem because he was tired of her coming. This parable, by contrast, helps us to understand God’s character. God will one day put an end to sin, and that, quite soon. “Nevertheless,” Jesus says, “when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?” (Luke 18:8).

God has promised. The challenge is with us. Will we let Him transform our hearts? As difficult as waiting may be, God’s people are described in His Word as being patient. “Here is the patience of the saints” (Rev. 14:12). The word in this verse for patience literally means “cheerful (or hopeful) endurance.”

Many people have experienced the heartache of losing loved ones. Others have been abused, attacked, and robbed. Whatever the issue is, we have God’s promises that it will all end someday soon. It is often difficult to wait cheerfully for God’s deliverance. That is why He gave us His promises.

Toward the end of Revelation, God gives us a beautiful promise of what He has prepared for His faithful children: “God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away” (Rev. 21:4).

God will blot out our tears. He will make all things new, and nothing that has made this life miserable will be allowed to bother His children ever again.

**React**

`1. How can we encourage each other to persevere on the way to heaven?`

`2. How do we wait cheerfully and patiently for God to fulfill His promise of a new earth?`

---

_Gabriel Taylor, Jefferson, Texas, USA_