---
title:  Shout It Out
date:  11/09/2019
---

**How-to**: Matt. 10:5–8; 25:31–46; 28:18–20

There is something about getting good news that makes it hard to keep it to yourself. There is a need to share it with others. It makes you want to grab a megaphone and shout it from the mountaintop—or, rather, post it on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, or Snapchat.

There is good news that needs to be shared. The Advent hope! The hope of Jesus’ soon return! Along with great hope comes great responsibility. The world needs to know He is coming soon. Not only do they need to know of His soon return, but they need to be ready.

How do you tell the world about the Advent hope?

The lost sheep (Matt. 10:5–8). Take the message to those who do not know about God. Start with your friends. Do all of them know who God is? Do they all believe in Jesus? Do they all know that Jesus’ return is imminent? Invite them to church socials and vespers. Offer to study the Bible with them. Walk the walk and talk the talk. Show them through the way you live that God is love. But reach the lost sheep.

Do unto the least of these (Matt. 25:31–46). It is a importnat to treat others the way you would treat Jesus. Share your food with someone who is hungry. It could be a homeless person, or it could be someone who didn’t have enough money for groceries that day. Get involved in prison ministries outreach. Sing at a nursing home. Donate unneeded clothing to a shelter or community services. Maybe someone is hungry for the Word of God and not for food. Share the gospel through GLOW tracts, pamphlets, and Bible studies.

The Great Commission (Matt. 28:18–20). Tell the world. Teach all nations. The Great Commission is an imperative. You do not have to go to another country to be a missionary. Each person has their own mission field. It could be in your home, at school, at your job, in your neighborhood. The hardest place to be a missionary is sometimes right in your own home. Teach others about the love of Jesus.

**React**

`1. Do you find it easy or hard to share Jesus with your family? What is one way you could share Jesus with your family this week?`

`2. Think of people outside your circle. What steps could you take to share this great hope? What is something that is preventing you from sharing? Pray that God can help you overcome this obstacle.`

---

_Brandy Taylor, Jefferson, Texas, USA_