---
title:  Restore the Breach
date:  12/09/2019
---

**Opinion**: Isa. 58:1–14

Isaiah 58 starts out by introducing to us a people who are extremely religious. These people delight to worship God. They are fasting for an outpouring of the Holy Spirit. They are going to a camp meeting in search of a special blessing upon their lives. But God says that they are all wrong. They will not receive a special blessing. They will not receive the Spirit. Why?

They are fasting for the wrong reasons. They are doing this for all the wrong reasons. They are going to a camp meeting for strife. They want to fight, argue, and debate with each other. But the Lord also points out another reason they won’t receive the Spirit. His people cherish a spirit of selfishness within their hearts. They take whatever blessings God has given to them and keep them all for themselves.

Isaiah 58 isn’t about political parties. It isn’t about telling you which political agenda or group to identify with and follow on social media so that you can be trending. It’s about character development. It’s about taking personal responsibility for the things that are happening in this world and doing something about it. Since when has Christianity relied upon legislation to tell them it’s OK to do good things? If we believe that we can offload our moral obligation to some political party or government to do the things that we should be doing, how, then, will our characters grow?

Isaiah 58 is about God wanting us to restore His law and His character in this world. When we set about to do this, His righteousness will shine through us. When we purpose in our hearts to reproduce the character of Christ through actions of Christlike selflessness, we will start to see the breach restored in this world. Remember, Christ said that “the poor you will always have with you” (Matt. 26:11, NIV). So the goal isn’t to eradicate poverty. It’s to give us the opportunity to express the Father’s loving-kindness to those in need. Once we learn this self-sacrifice, we will learn the true nature of the Sabbath, which is sacrificing ourselves and learning to delight ourselves in the Lord. This is a promise God wants to keep.

**React**

`1. If God is selfless and self-sacrificing by nature, how could we get along with Him in heaven if we don’t build up a similar character here on earth?`

`2. In many cases, mission trips have become an excuse for tourism. Might it be more effective to reach out to one’s own country and repurpose the funds that would have been used on overly expensive missio-tourism?`

---

_Arthur Ujlaki-Nagy, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_