---
title:  Hope That Is Above and Beyond
date:  13/09/2019
---

**Exploration**: Eccles. 12:13, 14

**Conclude**

In this desolate world on the brink of the most cataclysmic finale, we have been placed for such a time as this. With despair, suffering, homelessness, disease, and death knocking at the door, we need hope. You and I are the ones who must teach people today to look with confidence to the promised return of Jesus to save us from this sin-filled world. The truths of the Bible must be visible in our lives so that we might be living examples to testify of what we profess to believe, as light shining in the darkness.

**Consider**

- Writing down why you have hope in Jesus.
- Looking on YouTube for videos of people who sacrifice to bring hope to others. Then share the videos on your social media accounts.
- Drawing or painting a scene that brings you hope. Share the picture with your class on Sabbath.
- Gathering (GLOW) tracts that talk about hope and passing them out to people in a busy area or throughout your day.
- Singing or playing a song that gives you the hope and encouragement that you need to make it through trials and difficulties.
- Visiting the elderly and asking them about times when they needed hope to make it through challenges.
- Reading stories in the Bible of people who leaned heavily upon hope. Consider Moses, Abraham, Noah, Elijah, Daniel, or Paul, to name a few.


**Connect**

Matthew 24:32–35; 25:1–13.

Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, chap. 40, “God’s People Delivered.”

---

_Alden J. Ho, Jefferson, Texas, USA_