---
title:  Further Thought
date:  22/02/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Snares of Satan,” pp. 518–530, in The Great Controversy.

The purpose of Revelation 12 is, first of all, to tell God’s people that end-time events are a part of the great conflict between Christ and Satan. The book warns God’s people about what they are facing today and are about to confront in an even more serious manner in the future—an experienced and furious enemy. Paul warns us of the end-time activity “of Satan, with all power, signs, and lying wonders, and with all unrighteous deception among those who perish, because they did not receive the love of the truth, that they might be saved” (2 Thess. 2:9, 10, NKJV).

Revelation urges us to take the future seriously and make our dependence on God our priority. On the other side, Revelation assures us that although Satan is a strong and experienced enemy, he is not strong enough to overcome Christ (see Rev. 12:8). For God’s people, hope can be found only in the One who in the past has victoriously defeated Satan and his demonic forces. And He has promised to be with His faithful followers “ ‘always, even to the end of the age’ ” (Matt. 28:20, NKJV).

**Discussion Questions**:

`As Seventh-day Adventists, we see ourselves as fulfilling the characteristics of the end-time remnant. What a privilege! Also, what a responsibility! (See Luke 12:48.) Why must we be careful, however, not to think that this role guarantees our own personal salvation?`

`“We talk altogether too much about the power of Satan. It is true that Satan is a powerful being; but I thank God for a mighty Saviour, who cast the evil one from heaven. We talk of our adversary, we pray about him, we think of him; and he looms up greater and greater in our imagination. Now why not talk of Jesus? Why not think of his power and his love? Satan is pleased to have us magnify his power. Hold up Jesus, meditate upon him, and by beholding, you will become changed into his image.”—Ellen G. White, The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, March 19, 1889. In what ways do Christians magnify Satan’s power? On the other hand, what dangers are there in denying not just the reality of Satan’s power but the reality of his very existence, as well?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Great Controversy_, “Snare of Satan,” pp. 518–530;

_The Upward Look_, “God’s Word Is True,” p. 352.