---
title:  The Unity of the Gospel
date:   08/07/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “Complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind” (Phil. 2:2, ESV).

Even though the gospel includes all people who accept it, there still is a line drawn in the sand that distinguishes the two natures.

**Introduction**:  Phil. 2:2, 3


**Unity in Diversity**

What does Christianity entail? Does it mean being superior or less of a sinner than other humans? How should Christians treat each other, and how do they become the salt of the earth? Paul in Galatians tackled all these questions. He focused on unity among the brethren because he realized that divisions were erupting and hierarchy issues were sprouting.This problem existed long before Paul’s time, and it continues to exist today. It was for this reason that Jesus said, in John 17:21, “ ‘that all of them may be one’ ” (NIV).

**Together we can achieve more.**

Producing a delicious cake requires the baker to use ingredients such as cake flour, baking powder, raw eggs, sugar, and butter. Apart from the sugar, when each of these ingredients are tasted individually, they taste terrible. However, when each of these ingredients are mixed in the correct proportions and placed into a heated oven, they produce a delicious cake. Similarly, even though we are all different, we are all important in our own special way. Together we can achieve more.

Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 12:12–31 that we are like different members of the body of Christ. The body performs at its peak when each part works harmoniously with the other parts to achieve a specific goal. Imagine the heart saying, “Today I am tired, so I refuse to pump any blood,” or the nervous system saying, “I need a break.” Would the body function? No, we would soon have a corpse.

Many clichés have been coined in an effort to promote unity, societies, and communities in order for the problem of division among humans to be reduced. If the world is determined to go an extra mile to promote oneness among nations, shouldn’t Christians be able to do an even better job? The desire of Christ is for unison among His people so that the work of the gospel can be spread throughout the world. However, caution needs to be taken to ensure that the principles of the gospel are not compromised in order to achieve the unity we strive to attain.

Remember, God has given to everyone work according to his/her ability. There are different kinds of work to be done, and workers of varied capabilities are needed. If our hearts are humble, if we have learned in the school of Christ to be meek and lowly, we may all press together in the narrow path marked out. No one is a misfit!

_Velisiwe Nkomo, Johannesburg, South Africa_