---
title:  The Perfect Balance of Compromise
date:   09/07/2017
---

**Logos**:  Isa. 1:18; Matt. 5:38–41

In Isaiah 1:18, God gives us the opportunity to have a discussion with Him. At first glance, this seems like an invitation for a debating session where we can help God see things from our perspective. However, after careful consideration, it is clear to see that this is God giving us an opportunity to elevate our thinking so that we can understand why His way is the best way. Prayer elevates us up to God rather than bringing God down to us.

**He does not see us as who we are now, but He sees the people He is transforming us to become.**

I have always been fascinated by the contrast between the humility of Jesus, while people spat on His face not long before enduring His death on the cross (Matt. 26:67), and His overturning the tables of those who were using the temple courts as a marketplace (Matt. 21:12).

In Matthew 5:38–41, we are instructed that if someone slaps us on the cheek, we should let them slap the other cheek as well. The contrast between Jesus’ humility and the firmness in His character is therefore an application of the principle that we should be of service to others, but when it comes to our biblical principles, there is no room for compromise.

**United We Stand (1 Cor. 1:10–13)**

Marriage is an excellent example to use to explain the concept of compromise. We all know married people, or we have experienced marriage ourselves. Siblings who grew up together in the same house sometimes have a challenge getting along despite having similar backgrounds. This challenge is even greater when two people who have only known each other for a few years get married and begin to live together.

Although it is true that we cannot choose our family, we do choose the person we get married to. The transition into a marriage setting does not always occur as smoothly as it does in love stories and fairy tales.

A perfect balance of compromise needs to be attained in the marriage to ensure that the husband and the wife maintain their individual personalities. They must work harmoniously as a team in raising children who are disciplined and spiritually grounded. In the same way, a perfect balance of compromise in the church needs to be attained in order for the Lord’s work to be performed efficiently.

**Circumcision of the Heart (Gen. 17:1–22; Jer. 4:4; Acts 15:1, 5; Rom. 2:29; Gal. 2:3–5; 5:2, 6)**

When Abram was 99 years old, the Lord made a covenant of circumcision with him and changed his name to Abraham. This signified that he would be the father of many nations. We worship a God who will change our name before we see the change in our lives. He does not see us as who we are now, but He sees the people He is transforming us to become.

A miracle was performed in Sarah’s womb because, even though she previously had been unable to bear children, she bore a son, and they gave him the name Isaac. The covenant attached to the promise of Abraham being the father of many nations was that every male should be circumcised.

During the Council of Jerusalem, certain people were telling the Gentiles that unless they underwent physical circumcision, they could not be saved. Paul and Barnabas took care of this dispute by emphasizing that they should not make life difficult for Gentiles who are turning to God. A special arrangement was made for them so that they too could enjoy the benefits of a relationship with God. This decision was based on the understanding that the circumcision of the heart was even more important than physical circumcision.

**Freedom Through the Cross (John 8:31–36; Rom. 6:6, 7; 8:2, 3; 1 Cor. 15:55; Gal. 3:23–25; 4:7, 8; Heb. 2:14, 15)**

Abraham’s descendants had the misconception that they had automatically attained salvation based on the family they belonged to. Jesus clarified this by explaining that everyone who sins is a slave to sin. Salvation was therefore not attained by a family tree because the only way to receive eternal life was and still is through the Cross.

As young people, we think freedom is being able to go into the world and do as we please. We feel that we are imprisoned by the commandments of the Lord because they restrict us from having fun. However, the law of God gives us freedom from the consequences of sin.

Because we live in a sinful world, we may taste death before Jesus’ second coming, but even though our mortal bodies may be destroyed in this world, the day is coming when at the name of Jesus every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord (Phil. 2:10, 11). It will be on that day when the dead shall be raised in the twinkling of an eye and our mortal bodies will put on immortality (1 Cor. 15:52–54).

**React**

`1. Why is unity in the church so important?`

`2. Why is it important not to compromise godly principles in order to attain unity?`

`3. Would it be fair if we were saved according to the family we were born into?`

_Solwazi Khumalo, Cape Town, South Africa_