---
title:  Unity in the Gospel
date:   12/07/2017
---

**How-to**: Eph. 4:13

There is an African proverb that says, “If you want to go fast . . . go alone. If you want to go far . . .go together.”Evidence from history proves that success is usually achieved when people are united and are working together to achieve a common purpose or goal. An appropriate example of this was on the Day of Pentecost.When all the disciples were in unity, they received the Holy Spirit and preached the gospel with authority.As a result, thousands were converted.

When all the disciples were in unity, they received the Holy Spirit. . . . As a result, thousands were converted.

However, when dissension exists and division occurs, very little is achieved. It is no surprise therefore that Jesus Christ, as well as His disciples, not only advocated and preached about the importance of unity but also demonstrated how and why unity should be achieved.The unity of the church in Galatia was threatened as divisions arose because of the dispute over circumcision. Paul spent much of his time addressing this issue and sought to restore unity.This emphasizes the importance of unity in the church.The concept of unity refers to oneness; that is, the state of being one undivided entity.

Although the church of God is filled with different people with different backgrounds, personalities, gifts, talents, and appearances, it is still God’s design that they be united and work together in order to fulfill the mission of the church (see John 17:20–23).

The apostle Paul defines unity as being of one mind, in one spirit, and in one accord.Therefore, this oneness means more than being in agreement on intellectual terms. It means being one in what we believe as well as working together toward the same mission, purpose, and goal (see 2 Cor. 13:11; Phil. 1:27; 2:2; 1 Pet. 3:8).

Whenever there is division in the church or dissension, differences should be put aside and focus should be directed at implementing the teachings of the Scripture. In studying the Scriptures, we will find that our common mission is the spreading of the gospel (see Acts 2:2–4; Eph. 4:13).

**React**

`1. In the churches at Galatia, one of the issues that was causing division was the issue of circumcision. Is it common for disagreement to arise because of racial, cultural, traditional, and personality differences in the church?`

`2. What are some of the issues that have caused divisions in your local church? How can you work toward restoring unity by following scriptural examples?`

_Lucile Nonhlanhla Mlalazi, Cape Town, South Africa_