---
title:  Unity in Diversity
date:   14/07/2017
---

**Exploration**: 1 Cor. 1:10

**Conclude**

As the early Christian church grew, Paul saw the need to urge the church to continue to work together with a singular focus and goal—to share with passion and authenticity the true gospel message that the world so desperately needed to hear, with as much unity as possible. Today, millennia beyond the time when Paul was writing, we still find this message of unity poignantly relevant.Yet in a global church of more than 18 million people, crossing continents and cultures, unity can be challenging at times, despite the common core truths and doctrines that bind us together. However, when people are in harmony with God, they are more likely to be “perfectly joined in the same mind and the same judgment” (1 Cor. 1:10, NKJV).

**Consider**

- Watching “Our Father” (https://vimeo.com/166303527), a short video clip of various cultures praying the Lord’s Prayer in their own language. Reflect on how prayer brings unity both personally with God as well as globally.
- Praying for unity in your local church, across your division, and globally.
- Interviewing different church members across the age-groups of your local church, discussing the importance of unity and how they think greater unity within the local church, and beyond, can be achieved.
- Writing a social-media post about the challenge of maintaining truth while seeking unity. Engage as many of your friends in the discussion as possible.
- Creating a math equation that includes some of the following concepts: unity, division, God, others, self, differences, and eternity.
- Listening to the song “They’ll Know We Are Christians by Our Love” (various artists sing this old song).

**Connect**

1. Matthew 13; Galatians 2:1–21.
2. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 1, p. 182.
3. Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 2, pp. 159, 160, 374.
4. Jon Paulien, Knowing God in the Real World (Pacific Press®, 2000, 2016).

_Nina Atcheson, Buchanan, Michigan, U.S.A._