---
title:  Temptations of Leadership
date:  09/11/2019
---

#### inTro

Whether it’s by appointment, accomplishment, election, perception, or ability, when individuals are called to serve, they are called to leadership regardless of title. They may not be up front, calling the shots, and directing the masses—traffic officers can do this, but this does not make them leaders. They are not necessarily those who speak publically with eloquence and zeal—actors can do this, but this does not make them leaders.

Leaders are agents of change. Some leaders use the power given them to influence positive change in their spheres. Others use their fame to influence the opinion of others. While yet others maneuver their positions to force a result. There is even a type of leadership that employs wealth to acquire resources for some goal. As many styles as there are of leadership, all Christian disciples are called to leadership of one sort or another. The book of Nehemiah teaches us that we are to use authority, influence, fame, position, or wealth for the kingdom of God under the guidance of the Holy Spirit.

The temptation of leadership though is two-fold. Some leaders fail through overstepping their jurisdiction, while others fail through not using the authority rightfully theirs. Let us study Nehemiah 5 to see how it illustrates these lessons of leadership.

**Read This Week’s Passage: Nehemiah 5**

#### inScribe

Write out Nehemiah 5 from the translation of your choice.If you’re pressed for time, write out Nehemiah 5:6-8, 15, 19.You may also re-write the passage in your own words, outline, or mind-map the chapter.

``