---
title:  Ready for the Seal?
date:  02/02/2019
---

**Introduction**: 2 Pet. 3:13

The thread of Christ’s return runs throughout the Bible from the Old Testament to the New Testament. It is the future, blessed hope that every true Christian lives with. Our view of the future should inform how we live today. Thus the anticipation of Christ’s return comes with a responsibility that we must execute in this life.

Upon His return, every person will stand before the Lord to give an account for how they lived their life. We are stewards, entrusted with gifts, possessions, and responsibilities to use for the advancement of Christ’s kingdom. We have time, money, talents, and other responsibilities bestowed upon us to use for His cause. While we do not know the exact time of His return, we are sure that He will come, and all of us will give an account of how we used what Christ entrusted us with. Therefore, the question that we need to ask is, “Are we ready for His return?” Christ exhorts us to be ready for His return because He will judge everyone accordingly.

Many Christians have become impatient about Christ’s second coming. Some have failed to fulfill their engagements, and some have changed their plans, based on the lapse off time. However, the Bible warns, “The Lord is not slack concerning His promise.” Peter provides a fitting answer to what many people consider slackness on the part of the Lord to fulfill His promise. The Lord is “longsuffering toward us, not willing that any should perish but that all should come to repentance” (2 Pet. 3:9, NKJV). This view is confirmed in Revelation 7:1–3.

The Bible provides the reason that Christ seems to be taking longer to return. He is giving everyone a chance to repent and to join those who will have His seal. In His infinite mercy and love, Christ spares ungodly men, offering them more time for grace so that they can renounce their sins and find salvation through the blood of the Lamb.

So what must we do to be ready for the seal? The qualification to receive the seal of God hinges on our ability to walk in the light, as God Himself is in the light. Peter writes, “Therefore, beloved, seeing that you look for such things, be diligent that you may be found of him in peace, without spot, and blameless” (2 Pet. 3:14, KJ2000).

As we look forward to the second coming of Christ, we have a duty to keep ourselves pure and blameless as a step toward receiving the seal.

---

_Julius Nyerere, Ngong’, Nairobi, Kenya_