---
title:  Are You Among the Sealed?
date:  03/02/2019
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 7:4–8

In understanding Revelation, it is important to note that the figures and imageries used may not be literal. Instead, they point to something bigger, which must be of importance to those living in this era. It is important to ask concerning the number 144,000 in Revelation 7:4–8 not just whether the number is symbolic but whether we shall be among the number when the roll is called up yonder.

Therefore, who are the 144,000 people described in this vision? Considering the entire scene as symbolic, we can conclude that the number refers to those who will be saved at the end. It represents the servants of God, Christians of all ages to the end of the world. The number 144,000 is made up of the number 12 multiplied by itself and the result multiplied by one thousand. According to one commentator, this number stands for “completeness and perfection in the ultimate degree.” What it means is “ ‘that not one of those who are worthy shall be overlooked or forgotten.’ It also carries the thought that the natural universe, the powers of evil, and the ravages of time, shall not interfere with God’s plans until all are accomplished.”1

Thus the number symbolizes the complete number of the redeemed, when this world shall end. God intends to seal a remnant of His people who will remain on the face of the earth when Christ returns.

In Revelation 14, the character of the chosen 144,000 is outlined. This number thence represents a pure and virgin church, free of defilement. John’s vision exhorts us to do what God requires of us so that we can be among the number that will receive the seal of redemption. It also teaches that God always has a remnant on earth, people who will stick with His precepts even in the greatest adversities.

“When God sent the flood upon the earth, He separated Noah and his family from the rest of the human race and the flood did not hurt them. When God destroyed Jericho, He protected Rahab and her household. . . . In a similar way in the time of great tribulation protection will be given to this group of 144,000 Israelites.”2

---

<sup>1. James Burton Coffman, Coffman’s Commentaries on the Bible: Revelation 7, “Verse-by Verse Bible Commentary: Revelation 7:4,” StudyLight.org, accessed May 3, 2018, https://www.studylight.org/commentary/revelation/7-4.html.</sup>

<sup>2. John F. Walvoord, “7. The Saints of the Great Tribulation,” The Revelation of Jesus Christ, Bible.org, Jan. 1, 2008, https://bible.org/seriespage/7-saints-great-tribulation.</sup>

_Mark Gift, Nairobi, Kenya_