---
title:  Reflections About the Sealed
date:  05/02/2019
---

**Testimony**: Rev. 7:14

“As the angels of God cease to hold in check the fierce winds of human passion, all the elements of strife will be let loose. The whole world will be involved in ruin more terrible than that which came upon Jerusalem of old.” 1 Therefore, “the sealing is a pledge from God of perfect security to His chosen ones. . . . Sealing indicates you are God’s chosen. He has appropriated you to Himself.”2

This grand plan by God to save His people makes Satan more enraged. “Satan is now using every device in this sealing time, to keep the minds of God’s people from the present, sealing truth; and to cause them to waver. I saw a covering that God was drawing over His people, to protect them in the time of trouble; and every soul that was decided on the truth, and was pure in heart, was to be covered with the covering of the Almighty God.”3

The seal “is not any seal or mark that can be seen, but a settling into the truth, both intellectually and spiritually, so they cannot be moved.”4 It is “a mark which angels, not human eyes can read; for the destroying angel must see this mark of redemption. The intelligent mind has seen the sign of the cross of Calvary in the Lord’s adopted sons and daughters. The sin of the transgression of the law of God is taken away. They have on the wedding garment, and are obedient and faithful to all God’s commands.”5

But why must God hold on a little longer before He destroys the world? “The bottles of God’s wrath cannot be poured out to destroy the wicked and their works until all the people of God have been judged, and the cases of the living as well as the dead are decided. And even after the saints are sealed with the seal of the living God, His elect will have trials individually. Personal afflictions will come; but the furnace is closely watched by an eye that will not suffer the gold to be consumed. The indelible mark of God is upon them. God can plead that His own name is written there. The Lord has shut them in. Their destination is inscribed—‘God, New Jerusalem.’ They are God’s property, His possession.” 6

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 614.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, vol. 15, p. 225.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, “Dear Brethren and Sisters,” The Present Truth, August 1, 1849.</sup>

<sup>4. Ellen G. White Comments, in Francis D. Nichol, ed., The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 4, rev. ed. (Washington, DC: Review and Herald®, 1977), p. 1161.</sup>

<sup>5. Ellen G. White, “The Abiding Trust,” The Gospel Herald, June 11, 1902, p. 178.</sup>

<sup>6. Ellen G. White, Testimonies to Ministers, p. 446.</sup>

_Jane Oreso, Nairobi, Kenya_