---
title:  Characteristics of the Sealed
date:  06/02/2019
---

**How-to**: Rev. 14:1–5

Our study this week revolves around the sealed people of God. Therefore, it is a requirement for us to take time to analyze what we must do in order to obtain the seal. In its literal meaning, a seal is a device that makes an impression to show ownership, agreement, or authenticity. In ancient times, seals comprised stones, pieces of ivory, or wood with engraved letters or designs (cf. Exod. 28:11; Neh. 9:38). A seal implies a mark of authenticity or possession.

Revelation 14 begins with the final triumph of Christ and His sealed people. John paints a picture of the events just before the ultimate destruction of the wicked world. In the vision, John assures Christians that the Lamb will ultimately triumph together with His chosen followers. The scene in the beginning of this chapter presents Christ in His official capacity as the sacrificial Lamb, with the 144,000 sealed followers.

The sealed followers have special characteristics, one of which is the Father’s name written on their foreheads. This is an open demonstration that they are children of God through faith in Christ Jesus. Of importance for us in this generation is the character that we must cultivate in order to stand counted as the sealed of God.

Chastity and purity. The world offers lots of temporal things with the potential to lure Christians out of their spiritual track. In this vision, John speaks of the multitude with the Lamb as people who have not defiled themselves in any way whatsoever. In order to stand with Christ in the fullness of time, we must shun sin and all its roots (Gal. 5:19–23).

Absolute loyalty to Christ. The main duty of the sealed is to glorify Christ and adhere to His principles. As followers of Christ, we are obliged to follow the conduct of His word, Spirit, and providence. We must leave it to Christ to lead us into wherever and whatever He pleases.

Redemption. “While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us” (Rom. 5:8). In order to receive God’s seal, we must disown our former selves and embrace a new life with Christ. Through His redeeming mercy, Christ will separate the chosen from the rest of the world.

**React**

`How can we identify people who have the seal of God? Is it something visible for all to see?`

---

_Pauline Otieno, Kisumu, Kenya_