---
title:  Blessings of the Sealed
date:  07/02/2019
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 7:9–14

John describes a great multitude that stands in heaven before the throne of God and the Lamb (Rev. 7:9–14). The multitude represents the saved lot— the redeemed and sealed who will inherit the kingdom of God.

To stand before the heavenly throne is a great honor. John describes the multitude as wearing white robes, something that was reserved for saints (Rev. 6:11). The white robes represent the level of purity expected from God’s people. With the palm branches in their hands, they demonstrate a sense victory, celebration, and deliverance (cf. Lev. 23:40).

In a show of solidarity, the multitude cries out with a loud voice, “Salvation to our God . . . , and unto the Lamb” (Rev. 7:10). Their word is a testimony that they rejoice in the truth and that salvation is only through God and the Lamb (cf. John 14:6; Acts 4:12). Our duty as created beings and as a church is to praise and glorify God to eternity. In heaven, our major role will be to praise and acknowledge the glory of God and the Lamb.

But what do the chosen of God stand to benefit? The first blessing is that they have the chance to appear before the throne of God. This is a far greater privilege than sharing a presidential pavilion in this world. Second, God Himself protects the sealed. The Bible explains that “He who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them” (Rev. 7:15, NASB). In the complete presence of the Father and the Lamb, the chosen will enjoy a wonderful intimacy, free from all forms of devastation and tribulation. There is no hunger, thirst, or scorching sun.

Above all, the Lamb Himself is their shepherd (John 10:11). Christ, with all the authority given Him by the Father, will lead the sealed to the springs of living water. There will be no more tears because God will wipe away their tears. This is a great assurance to the saints who suffered for His cause during their life in this world. The choice to remain on God’s side comes with a great responsibility—and a prize. If we hope to inherit the kingdom of God, we must brace ourselves for war with the devil. But the blessings and the ultimate prize of our suffering outweigh the struggle, pain, and suffering that we can experience in this world.

The blessings of the sealed are ours to claim. What we must do is to choose to stick with the Lamb to the end of time.

**React**

`1. What are some of the things that can hinder us from being sealed?`

`2. What can we do in order to receive the seal of God?`

---

_Dorothy Odhiambo, Homa-Bay, Kenya_