---
title:  The Seal of Righteousness
date:  08/02/2019
---

**Exploration**: Rom. 3:22

**Conclude**

The seal of God’s people is proof that they belong to the Sealer. The seal protects; it shows permanence; and it shows the prominence of the sealed people. Above all, the seal demonstrates power and provides peace to both the sealed and the Sealer. Regardless of our past sins, our race, gender, or background, God gives us equal chance to be His sealed people. He is willing to seal us by the blood of Christ through the Holy Spirit.

**Consider**

- Making a list of items in your house or office that you would like to have sealed. What is the difference between the items with the seal and those without it? Think of how this activity relates to this week’s lesson.

- Watching a documentary about Christian persecution in various parts of the world. What does this teach you about the price Christians must pay for their loyalty?

- Writing about the characteristics of Christ. Identify which traits of Christ are lacking in your life. Ask the Holy Spirit to help you develop the lacking traits and to use them for Christ’s cause.

- Reading Revelation 14:1–5 and drawing two columns. In one column write the characteristics of those who are with the Lamb on Mount Zion. In the other column, write your own characteristics. Compare the two columns and identify what is missing and how you can acquire it.

- Listening to Christian songs that highlight the love of God for His chosen people.

- Interpreting John’s vision in relation to the present state of the church. Which issues come up in your interpretation?

**Connect**

Matthew 25:46; John 3:16; Ephesians 4:4.

Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, bk. 1, p. 175.

---

_Sam Ochieng’, Homa-Bay, Kenya_