---
title:  God’s Family Will Be Made New at the Second Coming
date:   22/12/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
John 14:1–3; Isaiah 11:1–10; Revelation 21:1–5; 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18; Isaiah 35:4–10

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “We are looking for what God has promised, which are new heavens and a new earth. Only what is right and good will be there” (2 Peter 3:13, NLV).

ONE OF THE BIGGEST PROMISES that God gives us in the Bible is the promise of Jesus’ Second Coming. Without the Second Coming, we have no hope. That promise, and what it means for us, is the reason for all our hopes. When Jesus comes back in the clouds of heaven, everything on this earth and every man-made thing will end. Then after 1,000 years, this earth will be made new again. It will become the home for the people that God saved. Jesus joins humans with God again at the Second Coming. Then they will live with each other forever.

Our hope in Jesus’ Second Coming is one of the most important teachings in the New Testament. For many hundreds of years, Christians waited for Jesus to come back. As Seventh- day Adventists, we want Jesus to come back. Our name itself says that we hope that He will come back soon.

In this last lesson, we will look at the promise of the Second Coming and how it helps us to have unity. Unity is agreement and peace in Jesus. Unity is the agreement we feel as a church when Jesus joins us in heart, mind, and in the truth. The peace and agreement that Jesus gives us is often hurt by our human weakness. But at the Second Coming, we will join with the Lord and live together as one family.
