---
title:  The Promise of Jesus' Second Coming
date:   23/12/2018
---

`John 14:1–3 is the best-known promise about Jesus’ Second Coming. What does this promise tell you about the life that God’s people will live on the new earth?`

The New Testament Christians said that Jesus’ Second Coming was the “blessed [very precious] hope” (Titus 2:13, NIrV). They looked for all of the Bible’s promises to come true at that time. People who love Jesus wait with joy and hope for the day when they will see Him face-to-face. Jesus’ words in John 14:1–3 hint that we will be close to Jesus and live with Him and each other after He comes back.

As Christians, we believe in the Second Coming because the Bible promises us it will happen. We have this hope because we believe in Jesus’ words: “ ‘I will come back’ ” (John 14:3, ERV). The Bible told us about Jesus’ First Coming before it happened. The Bible also tells us about His Second Coming. We can read about the Second Coming even in the Old Testament. Here is one example: a thousand years before Jesus came to this earth, King David wrote about the Second Coming. He said that the Savior will come to join all God’s people together. David writes, “Our God is coming and will not keep quiet. Fire burns in front of him. There is a great [awful] storm around him. He tells the sky and the earth to be wit- nesses as [at the time when] he judges his people. He says, ‘My followers, gather around me. Come, my worshipers, who made an agreement with me’ ” (Psalm 50:3–5, ERV).

Before the Flood, God tells Enoch that the Savior will come in glory to put an end to sin. Enoch says, “ ‘Look, the Lord is coming with thousands and thousands of his holy angels’ ” (Jude 14, 15, ERV).

Jesus’ Second Coming is connected closely to His First Coming. Before He came to earth the first time, the Bible told us about Jesus’ birth and His work for God on earth. We can read these promises in Genesis 3:15; Micah 5:2; Isaiah 11:1; and Daniel 9:25, 26. These promises about the First Coming give us many reasons for our hope and trust in Jesus’ Second Coming (Hebrews 9:26, 28).

`What hope and comfort do you find in the promise of the Second Coming?`
