---
title:  God Promises to Make All Things New
date:   24/12/2018
---

`In Isaiah 11:1–10, God gives a promise to Israel. What does this promise tell us about the home where God’s people will live forever?`

The Bible starts with the story about how God makes life on earth in six days. God makes a beautiful place for our first parents to live. Everything God makes on earth is perfect. The final two chapters of the Bible also talk about a perfect earth made by God (Revelation 21, 22). But this time, God will take the old earth we now live on and make it new. There will be no sin on this earth at all.

In many places in the Bible, we read that the new home where God’s people will live forever will be a real place. It will not be a dream or a fake place. God’s people will see, hear, smell, touch, and feel a new experience and a new life there. Isaiah 11:1–10 gives us a beautiful promise about the Second Coming.At that time, Jesus will make everything new on earth. He will end all war. Then He will lead us in everlasting peace.

`Revelation 21:1–5 tells us that something will disappear forever because of the everlasting peace that Jesus will bring. What will disappear?`

Ellen White wrote a description about life for God’s people after God makes everything on earth new: “Each year of our everlasting lives, we will learn more beautiful truths about God and Jesus. As we learn more about God, our love, respect for God, and happiness will grow too. The more we learn about God and from Jesus, the more we will admire who God is and what He thinks, feels, and does. Jesus will show His people the rich truths about God’s plan to save them. Jesus will show them the amazing things that God did in the big war between good and evil. The hearts of God’s people will fill with even more love for God. Then they will play their gold harps. Thousands of voices will join as one in a mighty chorus to sing praises to God.”—Ellen G. White, The Story of [about] Redemption [God’s plan to save humans], pages 432, 433, adapted.

`In what ways may we understand who God is now? How can our living in peace and agreement with other believers help to show God’s love to people who do not know Him?`
