---
title:  When God Wakes Up the Dead
date:   25/12/2018
---

Maybe more than any other promise, the Second Coming gives God’s people courage and hope. That has been true since New Testament times. Any time God’s people feel pain or feel sad, they can think about the hope that they have in the Second Coming. Jesus gave us this hope with many other wonderful promises.

`What promises do you find in 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18? What hope do these promises give us that Jesus will wake up our dead loved ones so that we can be with them again?`

Jesus’ Second Coming will change everything for all humans in very powerful ways. God will come to take His people to live with Him in His kingdom in heaven. This act is a very important part of God’s kingdom. “ ‘He will use a loud trumpet to send his angels all around the earth. They will gather [collect] his chosen people from every part of the earth’ ” (Matthew 24:31, ERV). At that time, God will wake up the dead who are His people. Then God will give them everlasting life (1 Corinthians 15:52, 53). That is the time we are waiting for! The dead who belong to Jesus will wake up. They will join again with those believers who waited and wished for them to be alive again. Paul talks about that time with deep joy: “O death, where is your power? O death, where are your pains [power to hurt]?” (1 Corinthians 15:55, NLV).

When Jesus wakes up His people from the dead, they will not come out of the graves with sick or old bodies. No. They will have new, perfect bodies that will never die. Their bodies will not show scars from the sin that caused them to rot in the grave. When God’s people wake up from the dead, they fully will feel Jesus’ work to make them new. They will have perfect bodies that show God’s love and holy life. They will show everyone who God is, just as He always wanted humans to do when He first made them (Genesis 1:26; 1 Corinthians 15:46–49).
At the same time that Jesus wakes up the dead, His people who are alive on the earth also will change. They will be given new, perfect bodies too (1 Corinthians 15:53) and will join Jesus in the air (1 Thessalonians 4:17).

`God promises that He will wake up the dead. What does His promise teach us about why only His power can save us?`
