---
title:  A New Earth
date:   26/12/2018
---

“ ‘Look, I will make new heavens and a new earth. And people will not remember the past. They will not think about those things’ ” (Isaiah 65:17, ICB). Both Isaiah and John (Revelation 21:1) saw in a vision the new earth that God promised.

`In Revelation 21:2, 9–27, John describes the wonderful city named the New Jerusalem where God’s people will live. What do these verses tell us about the peace and agreement that God’s people will see and feel in this city?`

`Revelation 22:1–5 talks about two things that will be in the new city: (1) the river of life that flows from God’s throne and (2) the tree of life. Why will these two things be in the new city? What is God’s plan for them on the new earth?`

Adam lost permission to eat from the tree of life after he sinned (Genesis 3:22–24). But Jesus will plant the tree of life in the New Jerusalem. God will give His people permission to eat its fruit again (Revelation 2:7). The tree of life will produce 12 different crops of fruit. It will produce a different crop of fruit each month. That may explain why God’s people “ ‘will come to worship me [God] . . . every New Moon,’ says the Lord” (Isaiah 66:23, ICB). Revelation also says that “the leaves of the tree are for the healing of all people” (Revelation 22:2, ICB). The leaves show us God’s plan to remove all the pain caused by separations between people. Then God will join His people in one big family who lives in peace with each other and gives glory to God.

“What Micah talked about hundreds of years ago now happens: ‘All fighting between nations will end. They will never again train for war. . . . No one will make them afraid. That is because the Lord All-Powerful said it would hap- pen like [the same as] that’ (Micah 4:3, 4, ERV; read also Isaiah 2:4). There, next to the river of life, God’s people will sit together under the tree of life. The leaves of the tree of life are the same as medicine. They will heal all the ‘deep cuts’ that hurt and divided humans when they were on earth.”—Ranko Stefanovic, Revelation [secrets made known] of [from or about] Jesus Christ: Commentary [explanation] on the Book of Revelation, page 593, adapted.
