---
title:  Our Life on the New Earth
date:   27/12/2018
---

`In Isaiah 35:4–10 and Isaiah 65:21–25, we learn that we will live a very different life on the new earth. What will be different about our life on the new earth?`

The book of Isaiah talks about several “new things” (Isaiah 42:9, NIrV; Isaiah 48:6) that God will show us or give us on the new earth. We will sing “a new song” (Isaiah 42:10, NIrV). We will see “something new” (Isaiah 43:19, ERV) and get “a new name” (Isaiah 62:2, ERV). In Isaiah 65, we read about a new way of doing things. There will be peace and agreement between all living things that God made. God will end the curses that came on the land because of our sins. There will be many blessings, houses to live in, and food to enjoy.

Life on the new earth will be very beautiful. Some people wonder if we will know our friends and family after God gives us new bodies and everlasting life. We know that after Jesus woke up from the dead, His followers knew who He was. Many of Jesus’ followers knew His voice when they heard it after He woke up from the dead (John 20:11–16). Thomas knew who Jesus was when he saw Him (John 20:27, 28). Jesus’ two followers from Emmaus knew who Jesus was by the things He did at the dinner table (Luke 24:30, 31, 35). So, we can see from these verses that our new bodies will be the same as Jesus’ body after He woke up from the dead. That means we will know our friends and loved ones when we see them again after Jesus comes back. We can look forward to spending our lives with our friends and loved ones again. It is safe to say that we will continue our connections and friendships with the people we know and love. They will be there with us on the new earth.

“In the new earth we will love fully. God Himself put these feelings of love and pity inside us. We will speak with holy people. We will be friends with angels and all of God’s loyal people who ever lived on the earth. God’s people washed their ‘robes [thoughts, feelings, actions]’ in the Lamb’s [Jesus’] blood. His blood made their robes white [clean; holy]. Holy friendships connect God’s people in one family in heaven and on earth (Ephesians 3:15). All these things will give God’s people happiness.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 677, adapted.
