---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   28/12/2018
---

Ellen G. White, “ ‘Behold [look], I Come Quickly [soon],’ ” pages 355–359, in Counsels [advice] for the Church . Read the articles “Resurrection [the time when God wakes up the dead],” pages 1082– 1084, and “Heaven and New Earth,” pages 863, 864, in The Ellen G . White Encyclopedia.

“Jesus woke up from the dead and then went to heaven. These two things that Jesus did prove that God’s people will win the fight over death and the grave. Jesus’ waking up from the dead and His going to heaven are God’s promise to His people that heaven is open to everyone who washes his or her robe [thoughts, feelings, and actions] in the blood of the Lamb. The Lamb’s blood will make believers’ robes white [clean; holy]. Jesus also went to the Father for us. God will take to heaven everyone who shows to other people who God is. He will bring His people to see His glory. They will share His glory with Him.

“We are strangers on this earth. But God will make homes for us on the new earth. God also makes robes that He will put on everyone who believes and obeys Him. He will give us crowns of glory and palm branches. These palm branches are a word picture that shows us that God’s people win the war over sin. After Jesus comes back, we will understand everything that confused us on this earth. We will understand those things that are hard to explain now. God will help us understand the truth about His loving-favor. Then everything that confused us will make sense. Our minds will see that God planned everything in the most perfect and beautiful order. We will understand that God let us suffer the most difficult experiences because He loved us. We will know the truth about God’s loving care for us. God makes all things work together for our good. We will feel joy that cannot be put into words. It is a joy that is full of God’s glory.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels [advice] for the Church, page 358, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**

`1 Many other Christians (but not all) believe in Jesus’ Second Coming. But what makes the Seventh-day Adventist belief in the Second Coming special?`

`2 It may be hard to make a picture in our minds of the new earth or really understand how wonderful the new earth will be. But why should we try anyway?`
