---
title: The Journey Back to Galilee
date: 19/10/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 4**

**The Journey Back to Galilee**

Chapter 4 concludes John’s introduction of Jesus’ ministry with an account of Jesus’ trip back to Galilee. Jesus’ lengthy conversation with a woman in Samaria dominates the story.

John didn’t lay out his narrative haphazardly. The first sign Jesus performed was in Cana of Galilee, where He turned water into (unfermented) wine (John 2:1–12). The second event that John specifically identified as another sign was also in Cana, when Jesus healed a nobleman’s son (4:46–54). This bracketing helps us see the way John laid the Gospel out. Between these miracles, John situated two long, personal conversations—one with Nicodemus (3:1–21) and the other with the Samaritan woman (4:4–42). The two conversations could not have been more different.

Some of the notable contrasts are as follows: the setting (Jerusalem versus Sychar), night versus noonday, Nicodemus initiating the conversation versus Jesus initiating it, a teacher of Israel versus an unidentified woman (whom the Jews would not have spoken with), the powerful versus the weak, and one who recognized Jesus’ credentials as a teacher versus one who demanded answers. Nicodemus left the scene questioning and ambivalent, but the woman left and proclaimed the gospel.

John’s readers would not have expected this woman to be receptive to Jesus’ teaching. However, her interaction with and confrontation of Jesus led her to a depth of understanding that Nicodemus didn’t reach until the crucifixion.

This encounter was not happenstance. John revealed that “Jesus needed to go through Samaria” (4:4). This wording can suggest two things: First, it was the shortest route, taking three days instead of five to seven. Pilgrims to Jerusalem went this way instead of crossing the Jordan. Second, Jesus had a divine appointment that He might not have been aware of, but His Father was. John most likely intended to include both meanings.

#### inScribe

As you read through John 4, focus on the center of the conversation between Jesus and the woman. Make a paraphrase of this conversation, write it out in a version you don’t frequently use, or create an outline or a mind map of the verses.

` `