---
title: By the Well
date: 20/10/2024
---

#### inGest

The separation between Jews and Samaritans dates back to the Assyrian conquest of the northern kingdom of Israel. It was the Assyrian custom to bring conquered peoples into new lands, thus diminishing their cultural and religious distinctiveness (2 Kings 17:24–30, 34). The conquered northern Israelite tribes never regained independence. They became deeply blended with the surrounding cultures, and their descendants became known as the Samaritans. The Jews were descendants of the southern kingdom of Judah. They viewed the racial and cultural blend of the Samaritans as going against the Torah and treated them with extreme prejudice. The Jews prided themselves in having Jerusalem as God’s chosen place of worship and despised the Samaritans for developing their own place and customs for worship (John 4:21). In Jesus’ day, the relationship between the Samaritans and Jews remained tense.

Jesus arrived in Sychar at about noon. He was thirsty, hungry, and tired (4:6). Jesus’ simple request that the woman draw Him some water shattered all societal protocols. Her surprised and terse response highlights His social transgression. As John said, the Jews had “no dealings with Samaritans” (v. 9). Though necessary social interaction such as buying food was permitted, sharing common utensils certainly crossed the line. To drink from her clay jar was to be defiled by her. Jesus, however, was unconcerned, for He didn’t see an inappropriate situation but an opportunity to bring life. He abruptly reversed their roles, offering the woman “living water” (v. 10)—another wordplay that can be understood as either moving water, like from a spring, or life-giving water. Instead of giving, she suddenly had the opportunity to receive.

The woman didn’t catch the wordplay and thought only of literal water, doubting Jesus’ ability to provide it and questioning His identity (vv. 11, 12). She didn’t see how Jesus could be greater than Jacob, but even with that lack of understanding, she had already begun pursuing a line of thought far ahead of Nicodemus’ comprehension. Jesus’ response completely circumvented her question and expanded His offer, making it even more attractive (vv. 13, 14). He offered the one thing that satisfies the soul’s thirst. Whoever drinks this water is fulfilled and knows where to come for another drink. She immediately requested the living water despite her lack of full comprehension (v. 15). She longed for something better than the water of Jacob’s well.

Before imparting the living water, Jesus asked her to call her husband (v. 16). The request startled her, and she attempted to deflect further questioning (v. 17). When reading Jesus’ response, it’s important to remember that His words carried no condemnation or judgment. His insight into her history helped her understand that she was speaking with an extraordinary Person, someone she assumed was a prophet. Perceiving this, she led the conversation into theological waters and asked a question regarding where the people should worship God—a contentious issue of the day that originated in the strained history between her people and the Jews (vv. 19, 20). Engaging in controversy is often easier than addressing matters of the heart.

Jesus pointed to the eschatological hour in which it will not matter where people worship (vv. 21–24). In that day, all religious categories will be obsolete. He emphasized this by stating that the hour had already arrived. John wanted his readers to understand the same lesson—that the coming kingdom is not defined by a future date. It breaks into the world today.

#### Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 4. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Where does the conversation in John 4:7–26 make abrupt shifts or changes? What do these instances reveal?`

`How was the woman’s response similar to or different from Nicodemus’?`