---
title: Beginning of a Great Harvest
date: 21/10/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Jesus’ words deeply impressed the Samaritan; her thirst and conviction increased. Still not grasping the import of Jesus’ words that the hour had arrived, she raised the issue of the Messiah’s coming, still looking to the future (John 4:25, 26). The Samaritans understood from Deuteronomy 18:15–18 that a prophet-like figure, the Messiah, would come to restore the true worship of God. The woman looked forward to that time, knowing the Messiah would clarify religious issues.

Once more, Jesus brought the future into the present. The Greek doesn’t have the word “He”—the English translations add it—so verse 26 could be translated as “I who speak to you, I AM.” Jesus was making a direct connection to the divine name used in the Old Testament (Exod. 3:14). He identified Himself as the God who is revealed or known (see also John 6:20; 8:28, 58). Of all the statements in which Jesus acknowledged that He is the Messiah, this is one of the clearest and most direct.

Despite her obscurity (we don’t even know her name), the Samaritan woman was ready to receive this truth. Whereas Nicodemus left his conversation with Jesus perplexed (John 3:9), she left in a hurry to share what she had found and to bring others to see Jesus (4:27–30). In one conversation with Jesus, the Samaritan moved from protest (v. 9) and doubt (v. 12) to the seed of belief (v. 19) and a wholehearted confession and witness (vv. 29, 39). She typifies John’s understanding of a disciple and witness. The well of water within her (v. 14) already gushed with overflowing joy (vv. 28–30).

Before the conversation ended, Jesus’ disciples returned from the city with their provisions (v. 8). They initially watched the exchange in amazed silence but began to urge Jesus to eat after she departed (vv. 27, 31). When Jesus refused the food, the same misunderstanding that afflicted others once again clouded their understanding. They, too, misinterpreted Jesus’ words to speak of earthly, literal things while Jesus spoke of heavenly, spiritual realities (vv. 31–35). The disciples’ confusion compounds over the next several verses (vv. 31–38). Jesus highlighted their lack of comprehension by distinguishing between the food He had and the food the disciples brought. Earthly birth or a heavenly one? Natural water or life-giving water? Common food or nourishment from doing God’s will? The harvest of the nearby fields or the harvest of souls? The conversations recorded in John 3 and 4 highlight these contrasts. In using these symbols, Jesus drew from Old Testament metaphors. For example, Joel 3:12–14 describes people’s spiritual decisions in terms of a harvest.

Before someone can make a decision for Jesus, the seeds of truth must be planted and cultivated in the heart. In some cases, this entire process can happen rather quickly, as seen in the conversation with the Samaritan woman. Whenever someone decides for Jesus, the results of personal effort are evident. Both sowing and reaping require significant effort, but the reaping is especially joyful (Ps. 126:5, 6). Already Christ could see the harvest from seeds He had sown. Looking down the path toward the town, the disciples could see the white head coverings of the first harvest coming to the well, led by the Samaritan woman.

#### Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`As you consider Jesus’ interaction with this woman, what speaks to your heart?`