---
title: Come and See
date: 23/10/2024
---

#### inVite

The Samaritan woman left her water pot behind in her haste to share her discovery with the others in the village (John 4:28). The life-giving water had flowed over its boundaries; she could not keep it to herself (v. 14). She became an inexhaustible well. Rushing into town, she encountered people who knew her history (vv. 29, 39). Her testimony was simple, but her invitation reached the entire village and resulted in large numbers coming to see for themselves. This simple invitation to come see Jesus echoes the invitations some of the disciples received when meeting Christ for the first time (1:39, 46).

Like Andrew and Peter when they were first called, the Samaritans wanted to stay with Jesus (1:38, 39; 4:30, 40). During His two-day stay, many more came to believe (4:41). They were no longer dependent on the woman’s testimony but had experienced Christ themselves. Here is an excellent example of discipleship and effective witness. The woman testified to the evidence of Jesus’ divinity, and as a result, many believed and, in turn, became witnesses themselves. This woman parallels the role of John the Baptist, who testified of Christ and pointed others to Him (1:6–8, 29; 3:29, 30). She, too, brought people to Jesus and shared in the joy of the harvest (4:36).

This story highlights the effect of Jesus’ life across the centuries. Today, through the experiences of others, we are invited to come and see. In turn, we become witnesses ourselves. We may begin by accepting someone else’s testimony, but eventually, we need to have our own defensible reasons to believe (4:42). This woman’s story also reminds us that our experience with Christ need not be based on seeing some wondrous miracle firsthand. This woman did not see Jesus heal, raise the dead, or work some other sign.

John used the verb “to believe,” pisteuō, ninety-eight times in his Gospel. In contrast, he never once used the noun “faith,” pistis. On thirty-six occasions, his Gospel includes “believe” in the sense of believing in Christ. John held faith to be an active kind of belief—an activity that brings us out of ourselves and makes us one with Christ. John 15 describes this as abiding in Christ. John’s goal was to help his readers come to this place of believing, or abiding, in Christ.

The villagers’ belief compelled them to testify that Jesus is “the Savior of the world” (4:42). Anyone who truly knows Jesus is moved to testify of Him, as 1 John 4:14 says. The word “Savior,” used in this verse, means one who can deliver or protect from serious disaster. “The world,” also in this verse, emphasizes the vast extent of Jesus’ ministry. His is a global mission, not restricted to the Jews or Samaritans. In His encounter at the well, Jesus broke down the imaginary barrier between chosen and rejected. There are no insiders and outsiders. Our mission is to reflect God’s love to the entire world (3:16), regardless of social status, culture, or nationality.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 4 again and look for where Jesus is.

`Where are you in the stages of 1. still relying on others’ testimonies, 2. knowing Jesus for yourself, and 3. being a witness for Jesus? How can you begin to progress to the next stage?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`