---
title: A Personal Savior
date: 24/10/2024
---

#### inSight

“The hatred between Jews and Samaritans prevented the woman from offering a kindness to Jesus; but the Saviour was seeking to find the key to this heart, and with the tact born of divine love, He asked, not offered, a favor. The offer of a kindness might have been rejected; but trust awakens trust. The King of heaven came to this outcast soul, asking a service at her hands. He who made the ocean, who controls the waters of the great deep... rested from His weariness at Jacob’s well, and was dependent upon a stranger’s kindness for even the gift of a drink of water” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [1898], 184).

“Our Redeemer thirsts for recognition.... He longs with inexpressible desire that they should come to Him and have life. As the mother watches for the smile of recognition from her little child, which tells of the dawning of intelligence, so does Christ watch for the expression of grateful love, which shows that spiritual life is begun in the soul. The woman had been filled with joy as she listened to Christ’s words. The wonderful revelation was almost overpowering” (Ibid., 191).

“Look, O look to Jesus and live! You cannot but be charmed with the matchless attractions of the Son of God. Christ was God manifest in the flesh, the mystery hidden for ages, and in our acceptance or rejection of the Saviour of the world are involved eternal interests” (Ellen G. White, Fundamentals of Christian Education [1923], 179).

“To talk of religion in a casual way, to pray without soul-hunger and living faith, avails nothing. A nominal faith in Christ, which accepts Him merely as the Saviour of the world, can never bring healing to the soul. The faith that is unto salvation is not a mere intellectual assent to the truth. He who waits for entire knowledge before he will exercise faith, cannot receive blessing from God.

“It is not enough to believe about Christ; we must believe in Him. The only faith that will benefit us is that which embraces Him as a personal Saviour... Many hold faith as an opinion. But saving faith is a transaction, by which those who receive Christ join themselves in covenant relation with God.... A living faith means an increase of vigor, a confiding trust, by which the soul becomes a conquering power” (Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers [1915], 260, 261).

“The Saviour of the world offers to the erring the gift of eternal life. He watches for a response to His offers of love... with a more tender compassion than that which moves the heart of an earthly parent to forgive a wayward, repenting, suffering son. He cries after the wanderer: ‘Return unto Me, and I will return unto you.’ If the sinner still refuses to heed the voice of mercy which calls after him with tender, pitying love, his soul will be left in darkness” (Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4 [1876], 207, 208).

#### Journal:

`After this week’s study, what are some personal applications you are convicted of in your life?`

`What are some practical applications you must make in your school, family, workplace, and church life?`

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`