---
title:  Developing a Winning Attitude
date:  22/08/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
John 4:27–30, 39–42; Matt. 15:21–28; 2 Thess. 1:1–4; Rom. 15:7; Eph. 4:32; 1 Pet. 3:15.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you, with meekness and fear” (1 Peter 3:15, NKJV).

The more we study Jesus’ life, the more we marvel at His ability to accept and affirm people. Although He issued scathing rebukes to the religious leaders of His day, He gladly received those who were struggling with sin, plagued with guilt, and hopelessly condemned. His grace was for them. His mercy extended to even the vilest sinners. The depth of His forgiveness was infinitely deeper than the depths of their sin. His love knew no bounds.

Jesus never exhibited a tinge of pride or superiority. He saw in every human being one created in the image of God, yet fallen by sin, and whom He came to save. No one was beyond His love. None had fallen so low that His grace could not reach them. He showed respect to all He came in contact with and treated them with the dignity they deserved. He influenced people for the kingdom because He believed in people. Their lives were changed in His presence because He cared for them so deeply. They rose to become what He believed they could be.

In this week’s lesson we will explore more deeply Jesus’ attitude toward people and discover how to apply these principles in our own lives.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, August 29._

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"The ministry of Christ was in marked contrast to that of the Jewish elders. Their regard for tradition and formalism had destroyed all real freedom of thought or action. They lived in continual dread of defilement. To avoid contact with the “unclean,” they kept aloof, not only from the Gentiles, but from the majority of their own people, seeking neither to benefit them nor to win their friendship. By dwelling constantly on these matters, they had dwarfed their minds and narrowed the orbit of their lives. Their example encouraged egotism and intolerance among all classes of the people. {DA 150.2}

Jesus began the work of reformation by coming into close sympathy with humanity. While He showed the greatest reverence for the law of God, He rebuked the pretentious piety of the Pharisees, and tried to free the people from the senseless rules that bound them. He was seeking to break down the barriers which separated the different classes of society, that He might bring men together as children of one family. His attendance at the marriage feast was designed to be a step toward effecting this. {DA 150.3}"

"Jesus came to this world in humility. He was of lowly birth. The Majesty of heaven, the King of glory, the Commander of all the angel host, He humbled Himself to accept humanity, and then He chose a life of poverty and humiliation. He had no opportunities that the poor do not have. Toil, hardship, and privation were a part of every day’s experience. “Foxes have holes,” He said, “and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay His head.” Luke 9:58. {MH 197.1}

Jesus did not seek the admiration or the applause of men. He commanded no army. He ruled no earthly kingdom. He did not court the favor of the wealthy and honored of the world. He did not claim a position among the leaders of the nation. He dwelt among the lowly. He set at nought the artificial distinctions of society. The aristocracy of birth, wealth, talent, learning, rank, He ignored. {MH 197.2}

... He ate with publicans and sinners, and mingled with the common people, not to become low and earthly with them, but in order by precept and example to present to them right principles, and to uplift them from their earthliness and debasement. {MH 197.3}"

"In this our day the opportunities for coming into contact with men and women of all classes and many nationalities are much greater than in the days of Israel. The thoroughfares of travel have multiplied a thousandfold. {PK 73.3}

Like Christ, the messengers of the Most High today should take their position in these great thoroughfares, where they can meet the passing multitudes from all parts of the world. Like Him, hiding self in God, they are to sow the gospel seed, presenting before others the precious truths of Holy Scripture that will take deep root in mind and heart, and spring up unto life eternal. {PK 74.1}"