---
title:  The Foundation of Acceptance
date:  26/08/2020
---

`Read Romans 15:7 and Ephesians 4:32. How would you describe the foundation of all acceptance? What is the essence of an accepting attitude?`

In these two passages the apostle Paul presents the principles underlying our acceptance of one another. Because Christ has forgiven and accepted each one of us, can we possibly refuse to forgive and accept one another? In fact, it is precisely because Jesus has received us that we can receive one another, even despite the other’s flaws.

Think hard about what this means. Think about yourself and about some of the things you have done and might still be struggling with—things that, perhaps, you alone know about, things that you’d be terrified if others knew about, too.

And yet, what? By faith, you are accepted in Christ, who knows all about the things that others might not know anything about. Yes, He knows all of that, and yet, He accepts you anyway, not because of your own goodness, but because of His.

What, then, should be your attitude toward others?

Here is a difficult concept for some to understand. Genuine acceptance means that we accept people as they are, with all their sinful habits, because they are human beings created in the image of God. Because Christ died for us “while we were yet sinners” and “reconciled [us] to God” when we were His enemies, we can forgive and accept others. His love toward us becomes the very foundation of our acceptance and forgiveness toward others (Rom. 5:6–10).

But once an accepting, caring relationship has been established, it is often necessary to confront another individual lovingly with the truths of Scripture. To fail to do this is to neglect to love. As friends, we care enough to share life-changing, eternal truths with our friends.

Jesus’ attitude was not, “Do whatever you please. It’s all right. I still accept you.” His attitude was, rather, “No matter what you have done, I am willing to forgive you and provide you with power to change.” Biblical truth presented humbly in Christ’s spirit with a loving attitude wins hearts and changes lives.

`How is it possible to accept an individual without accepting that person’s sinful behavior? How can we be accepting while at the same time not condone or tolerate sin?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"But even in the corrupt condition in which the society of today is, there are souls capable of better things—souls represented by Christ under the symbol of “the lost pearl.” Christ gave up everything, that he might seek and save that which was lost, that He might recover the pearl that He valued at infinite cost. What are we ready to do to cooperate with Him in this work? What sacrifice are we ready to make? ... {LHU 353.4}

When we consider that Christ died for the ungodly while they were yet sinners, we are led to realize how willing and even anxious He is to bless us, that we may be a blessing to others. {LHU 353.5}"

"“He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love. In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent His only-begotten Son into the world, that we might live through Him. Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that He loved us, and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and His love is perfected in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in Him, and He in us, because He hath given us of His Spirit.” {TM 94.2}

This is the very work which the Lord designs that the message He has given His servants shall perform in the heart and mind of every human agent. It is the perpetual life of the church to love God supremely and to love others as they love themselves. {TM 95.1}"

"God’s word is our standard, but how far have His professed people departed from it! Our religious faith must be not only theoretical, but practical. Pure and undefiled religion will not allow us to trample upon the rights of the least of God’s creatures, much less of the members of His body and the members of our own family. God is love, and whoso dwelleth in Him dwelleth in love. The influence of worldly selfishness, which is carried about by some like a cloud, chilling the very atmosphere that others breathe, causes sickness of soul and frequently chills to death. {3T 528.1}

The religion of Christ is something more than talk. The righteousness of Christ consists in right actions and good works from pure, unselfish motives. Outside righteousness, while the inward adorning is wanting, will be of no avail. ... If we have not the light and love of God we are not His children. If we gather not with Christ we scatter abroad. We all have an influence, and that influence is telling upon the destiny of others for their present and future good or for their eternal loss. {3T 528.3}"