---
title:  Further Thought
date:  28/08/2020
---

“In Christ is the tenderness of the shepherd, the affection of the parent, and the matchless grace of the compassionate Saviour. His blessings He presents in the most alluring terms. He is not content merely to announce these blessings; He presents them in the most attractive way, to excite a desire to possess them. So His servants are to present the riches of the glory of the unspeakable Gift. The wonderful love of Christ will melt and subdue hearts, when the mere reiteration of doctrines would accomplish nothing. ‘Comfort ye, comfort ye My people, saith your God.’ ‘O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the high mountain; O Jerusalem, that bringest good tidings, lift up thy voice with strength; lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of Judah, Behold your God!...He shall feed His flock like a shepherd: He shall gather the lambs with His arm, and carry them in His bosom.’ Isaiah 40:1, 9–11.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 826, 827.

**Discussion Questions**:

`It’s unfortunate, but some people can make themselves feel better by pointing out the faults of others. How can we be sure that we don’t fall into that same mind-frame?`

`Consider this scenario: A friend has just returned from a funeral and makes this comment: “I am so glad my aunt is up in heaven looking down at me. It makes me feel so good.” Based on the principles we studied in our lesson this week, how would you respond? That is, however important the state of the dead is, why might this not be the best time to give that person a Bible study on this topic?`

`Discuss the following statement in the light of our witness to others: “The very act of looking for evil in others develops evil in those who look. By dwelling upon the faults of others, we are changed into the same image. But by beholding Jesus, talking of His love and perfection of character, we become changed into His image. By contemplating the lofty ideal He has placed before us, we shall be uplifted into a pure and holy atmosphere, even the presence of God. When we abide here, there goes forth from us a light that irradiates all who are connected with us.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers, p. 479.`