---
title:  The Wisdom and Knowledge of God
date:  01/03/2026
---

Job asked, “Where can wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding?” (Job 28:12, NKJV). Paul answers: in Christ, “in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge” (Col. 2:3, NKJV; compare 1 Cor. 1:30). If we have Christ, we have everything, even the “full assurance of understanding” the purpose of life (Col. 2:2, NKJV). Through Him the mystery of God, which embraces the entire plan of salvation, has been revealed.

`Read Colossians 2:1–7. What is Paul’s purpose in writing this epistle?`

The Greek word _paraklēthōsin_ means “encouraged” or “strengthened” (Col. 2:2). Paul’s desire is not only to help the believers in Colossae recognize false teachings but also to “unite” (sumbibasthentes) them in Christian love. The tense used for both verbs—“encouraged”  and “united”—indicates Paul’s confidence that this epistle will achieve its intended purpose.

He did, however, commend them for “your good order, and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ” (Col. 2:5, NKJV).

The Greek term _taxis_, translated “order,” is used in the New Testament in reference to the priestly orders of Aaron (Luke 1:8, Heb. 7:11) and Melchizedek (Heb. 5:6, 10, NKJV; Heb. 6:20, NKJV; Heb. 7:11, 17, NKJV), but Paul applies it to order in the church (1 Cor. 14:40), including here. Sometimes there is a tendency to consider church order and organization as merely an ecclesiastical institution with no theological significance.

But by prescribing proper decorum in worship (see, for example, 1 Corinthians 11), and specifying how elders and deacons should be selected (1 Timothy 3, Titus 1), Paul was very careful to preserve order in the church. Through these measures, God’s wisdom and the teachings of the Bible are preserved and promulgated.

As a result of the correct teaching that the Colossians had received from Paul’s associates, they had “steadfastness” of faith. It cannot be shaken because it rests on a solid biblical foundation that, if adhered to, would help protect them from the errors being promoted by the false teachers.

`What has been your experience with the need for “order” in your own spiritual life?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The revelation of God’s love to man centers in the cross. Its full significance tongue cannot utter; pen cannot portray; the mind of man cannot comprehend. . . . Christ crucified for our sins, Christ risen from the dead, Christ ascended on high, is the science of salvation that we are to learn and to teach.\
“Who, being in the form of God, counted it not a thing to be grasped to be on an equality with God, but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men; and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, becoming obedient even unto death, yea, the death of the cross” (Philippians 2:6–8, R.V., margin). “It is Christ that died, yea rather, that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God.” “Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them” (Romans 8:34; Hebrews 7:25). . . .\
Here are infinite wisdom, infinite love, infinite justice, infinite mercy—“the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God” (Romans 11:33).\
It is through the gift of Christ that we receive every blessing. Through that gift there comes to us day by day the unfailing flow of Jehovah’s goodness. Every flower, with its delicate tints and sweet fragrance, is given for our enjoyment through that one Gift. The sun and moon were made by Him; there is not a star that beautifies the heavens which He did not make. There is not an article of food upon our tables that He has not provided for our sustenance. The superscription of Christ is upon it all. Everything is supplied to man through the one unspeakable Gift, the only-begotten Son of God. He was nailed to the cross that all these bounties might flow to God’s workmanship.\
“Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him” (1 Corinthians 2:9). Surely there are none that, beholding the riches of His grace, can forbear to exclaim with the apostle: “Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift.”—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 178.

The Word of God, like the character of its divine Author, presents mysteries that can never be fully comprehended by finite beings. . . .\
If it were possible for created beings to attain to a full understanding of God and His works, then, having reached this point, there would be for them no further discovery of truth, no growth in knowledge, no further development of mind or heart. God would no longer be supreme; and men, having reached the limit of knowledge and attainment, would cease to advance. Let us thank God that it is not so. God is infinite; in Him are “all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.” Colossians 2:3. And to all eternity men may be ever searching, ever learning, and yet they can never exhaust the treasures of His wisdom, His goodness, and His power.—The Faith I Live By, p. 14.