---
title: 'Growing Complacency'
date: 07/12/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Joshua 23, 24

**Growing Complacency**

At the close of their careers, leaders often look for ways to cement their legacies. As they prepare to transition responsibilities, leaders sometimes emphasize their achievements and remind everyone of their successes. As Joshua prepared to lay down his responsibilities at an elderly age, he had no burden to establish his own personal legacy. His focus was on God’s faithfulness and the choices that lay before God’s people.

Like a runner passing the baton to the next teammate in a relay race, Joshua was handing off a work that needed to be continued. He knew that God’s purpose for Israel would continue after his chapter closed—that his chapter was only a small part of a much larger story. The leaders of any organization, be it a nation, business, church, etc., understand that unless they successfully pass their values and their mission to their successors, their entity is only one generation away from dying out. Joshua was deeply concerned about Israels’ future. He recognized how easily they could sabotage their own destiny.

Life in Canaan was far easier than it had been in the wilderness. Gone were the days of wondering if the manna would fall every morning, of watching dwindling water supplies or drying pastureland in growing trepidation. The struggles they faced in the wilderness that compelled them to rely on God were greatly diminished in their new home. Here, in this land flowing with milk and honey, they could put their worries to rest and rely on the steady rhythms of the natural world to sustain them. Here, they could regain some semblance of control over their lives. They could plow their own land, produce their own harvests, and graze their livestock without the same anxiety. They didn’t have to wonder where they would camp next because they had permanent homes. Life was good, especially because it had been mostly stripped of the unknown. When they were wandering in the wilderness, they had controlled very little in their lives; here it seemed they controlled nearly every aspect. This increased prosperity brought with it a drowsy, numbing complacency, which in turn brought gradual spiritual declension. God was present, but He didn’t feel as necessary to their existence as He had been. He was nice to have, but He diminished in importance as they prospered. The situation worried Joshua. He saw his people settling into their comfortable lives while parts of Canaan remained unconquered. They seemed satisfied to leave the job unfinished.

On one hand, God delivered the land of Canaan into the Israelites’ hands and gave them rest from their enemies (Josh. 21:43–45). On the other hand, there were small pockets of resistance left, and the Israelite tribes still had work to do in driving out the remaining Canaanites (15:63; 16:10; 17:12, 13). Israel had paused to rest when the bulk of the conquest was complete, but that rest began to stretch into a lengthy hiatus. They had conquered enough of their enemies that the remaining groups posed no imminent threat. It was easy to lay down their arms and not be motivated to pick them up again. Israel became content to cohabitate with the Canaanite tribes around them despite God explicitly telling them to eliminate them completely. They were content to soak in the bliss of a peaceful existence after a lifetime of wandering, struggling, and fighting.

As Joshua addressed the nation in his final speeches, the future of God’s people was at stake. Everything depended on whether they would be loyal to God. In his dying years, Joshua made his final appeals to the people he loved. He reminded them of their mission and urged them to be faithful.

### inScribe

_Write out Joshua 24:1–15 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map all of Joshua 23 and 24._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `