---
title: 'Making the Appeal'
date: 08/12/2025
---

### inGest

As Joshua considered Israel’s future, he reflected on their past experiences. Israel had repeatedly demonstrated a tendency toward unbelief and unfaithfulness. When they were trapped between the Egyptians and the Red Sea, they were quick to indulge in harsh accusations against Moses and, by extension, God, for leading them out of slavery in the first place. When Moses lingered on Mt. Sinai communing with God, they constructed a golden calf even though God had explicitly forbidden idolatry. Throughout their wilderness wanderings, they struggled with doubts despite clear manifestations of God’s power and willingness to deliver them from the most impossible circumstances. Here, a generation later, they were slacking off and resting indefinitely. Instead of finishing the work God had given them, they chose to settle for an unfinished task.

As one who loved Israel and cared deeply for their future, Joshua appealed to the people from the depths of his heart. He reminded them of how God had led Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He repeated the story of how God had sent Moses to deliver their ancestors from Egypt. He reviewed how God had led them through the wilderness and brought them safely to Canaan. He emphasized how God had driven out their enemies. He acknowledged God’s power and faithfulness in every part of their journey. Based on God’s goodness and the reliability of His promises, Joshua pled with them to forsake all idols and make a full and uncompromising commitment to serve God and God alone. Four times in chapter 24, Joshua appealed to the people. Four times the people responded by promising their allegiance to God. Knowing their history of broken promises, Joshua didn’t accept their initial response or their second response. He pressed them, as if to test the depth of their resolve.

Joshua didn’t ask for any commitment that he and his household were unwilling to make: “As for me and my house, we will serve the LORD” (v. 15). The decision Joshua called for addressed every dimension of human existence: actions, thinking, relationships, and heart. With their minds, they had to choose whom they would serve. Choosing God had to result in completely forsaking their idols and fully committing to keeping God’s law. None of these decisions or changes would last unless they inclined their hearts toward God (v. 23). This was a recommitment to the covenant God had made with Israel at Mount Sinai.

Today, God needs leaders like Joshua who will call people to a decision—leaders who will make an appeal and ask for a true commitment. Joshua was not manipulating or forcing the people. He was being a loving leader, knowing that the best path for his people was to commit themselves to the Lord, and insisting that they truly consider what it would mean to make such a commitment instead of allowing them to make a frivolous promise that they would all too easily abandon later.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`Are there people who have called you to make a spiritual decision? How did you respond?`

`How can we guard against making promises we aren’t fully committed to keeping?`