---
title: 'A Divided Heart'
date: 09/12/2025
---

### inTerpret

Joshua’s response to the people’s initial answer is a bit alarming. Part of his statement seems to warn the people that they had better obey, because God “will not forgive your transgressions nor your sins” (Josh. 24:19). If this half sentence is isolated on its own, it conveys a message that directly contradicts the many Bible promises that God is willing to forgive. However, when we read the full statement as one complete thought, the meaning changes: “But Joshua said to the people, ‘You cannot serve the LORD, for He is a holy God. He is a jealous God; He will not forgive your transgressions nor your sins. If you forsake the LORD and serve foreign gods, then He will turn and do you harm and consume you, after He has done you good’ ” (vv. 19, 20). Joshua was explaining that God will not accept partial worship or partial service. There’s no forgiveness for someone who appears to serve God but hides secret idols. God requires full surrender. He asks for the whole heart, not a divided one. Israel had no room to vacillate between two options. They needed to make a choice.

The same is true throughout the Bible. To the church of Laodicea, Jesus said, “I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot.… So then, because you are lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will vomit you out of my mouth” (Rev. 3:15, 16). This message was a rebuke against lukewarm spirituality. Like Israel in the aftermath of the unified conquest of Canaan, the Laodiceans were certain of their superiority: “You say, ‘I am rich, have become wealthy, and have need of nothing’ ” (v. 17). Like Israel, the Laodiceans felt secure because of their past victories. Israel had, after all, subdued some of the fiercest tribes in Canaan. Yet they failed to recognize their true condition. While they had made significant inroads in the conquest of Canaan, their task was incomplete, and they were in danger of embracing false gods.

The Laodicean church, which is a symbol of God’s last-day church, finds themselves in the same predicament. They think they’re spiritually secure when they’re actually spiritually dying. Despite their assumptions, Jesus told the Laodiceans that they were “wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked” (v. 17). The message to Laodicea is a call to repentance. Spiritual poverty is easy to miss, mostly because we’re often unaware of its presence in our lives. This is why Jesus sent this message to the Laodiceans and, by extension, to us, His last-day church. May we receive that message and choose Jesus today.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Take some time to pray and ask God to show you any areas in your life where you need to make a spiritual recommitment.`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Joshua 23 and 24. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._