---
title: 'Pleading On Christ’s Behalf'
date: 11/12/2025
---

### inVite

Joshua called people to make a public decision when he said, “Choose for yourselves this day whom you will serve” (Josh. 24:15). Joshua was so serious about this decision that he engaged in a back-and-forth conversation with them to confirm their commitment, pressing the issue until he felt more secure in their response.

Jesus often appealed to people, both individually and in larger audiences. Like Joshua, He sometimes pressed His questions multiple times to test a person’s level of commitment. With Peter, Jesus asked him three consecutive times, “Do you love me?” Three times Peter answered, “You know that I love You” (John 21:15–17). Peter felt pained to hear Jesus repeat this heart-searching question three times. This probing query reminded him of how he had denied Christ three times. The repetition of this question helped Peter focus in on what mattered most: his love for Jesus. With each question, Christ gave Peter another opportunity to affirm his love and deepen his commitment. It was a remarkable demonstration of Christ’s forgiveness and His willingness to restore a disciple who had openly and vehemently denied his Lord.

When Jesus ascended to heaven, His disciples continued His work of inviting people to make decisions. Peter himself appealed to the crowd in Jerusalem, “Repent, and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins” (Acts 2:38). Paul wanted every believer in the church to allow Christ to plead through them: “Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were pleading through us: we implore you on Christ’s behalf, be reconciled to God” (2 Cor. 5:20). When we invite people to make spiritual decisions, we aren’t asking them to do anything for us; we’re inviting people on Christ’s behalf. Knowing that God pleads through us gives us boldness, as Peter had when he preached in Jerusalem.

Today, people need friends who will ask heart-searching questions and call for decisions when they’re ready. When someone’s considering making a life-changing decision such as baptism or keeping the Sabbath, nothing is more helpful than having a friend walk with them to help them understand and to give them confidence that God will be with them as they follow Scripture’s instructions and the Holy Spirit’s leading. Sometimes people pay a high price for these decisions. They may lose a job, be rejected by friends, or become alienated from family. It’s important in these moments of decision for people to have someone who can build their faith and help them trust God in the face of these difficult circumstances.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`Is there someone you need to plead with on Christ’s behalf?`