---
title: inQuire
date: 13/12/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**A time to choose:**

1. Why is it important to remember God’s goodness in the past if we want to remain faithful in the future? _Read Josh. 24:1–13._
2. Why was Joshua so strong and emphatic in his appeal to the nation of Israel? How much was at stake? _Read Josh. 24:14, 15._
3. Why do you think Joshua kept pressing his questions, as if he wasn’t quite accepting their answers? _Read Josh. 24:16–22._
4. What was Joshua’s concern with the commitment the people were making? Would a halfhearted commitment be enough to keep them faithful? _Read Josh. 24:23._
5. Is it appropriate to make strong appeals? What other examples can you think of? _Consider Deut. 30:15–20; 1 Kings 18:17–21; Ezek. 33:10, 11; John 21:15–19._

`Personal reflection: Have you ever made a spiritual decision in response to an appeal? What was the significance of that decision? What practical steps can you take to help your family and friends remain faithful to God?`

**Partial allegiance:**

1. Why do you think idolatry was such a strong temptation for the Israelites? _See Josh. 23:7, 16; 24:2, 14–16, 23._
2. What are the dangers of making a halfhearted commitment and giving God only partial obedience? _Read 2 Kings 17:33; Jer. 3:10; Ezek. 33:31._

`Personal reflection: How can you guard yourself against distractions and compromises in your faith?`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- It is important to directly appeal to people to make a full commitment to God.
- It is easy to make halfhearted commitments while holding onto secret idols.
- God does not accept divided hearts or partial allegiance.