---
title:  Mad About Jesus
date:  15/09/2018
---

**Introduction**: Luke 9:24

While reacquainting myself with Paul’s story, I found myself echoing Festus when he shouted, “Paul, you are insane” (Acts 26:24, NLT). To be clear, I don’t find Paul’s compliance with God’s plan for his life particularly insane; instead, I take exception to his willingness to so completely subordinate his own will.

From the moment he accepts God’s call after his Damascus Road encounter with Christ, Paul seems never to hesitate at any task. Even Moses and Elijah, great servants of God, exhibited reluctance to follow God’s plan for them, considering the extraordinary sacrifices concomitant. Yet Paul yields completely. It’s as though he relishes walking the martyr’s path. When warned by a prophet that he would be captured should he journey to Jerusalem, Paul declares his readiness “not only to be jailed . . . but even to die for the sake of the Lord Jesus” (Acts 21:10–13, NLT). And when captured by the Jewish leaders in Jerusalem, rather than conducting himself with deference, Paul’s direct speech so infuriates the high priest and the council that it nearly costs him his life (Acts 23:1–10). Paul’s apparent disregard for his own continued existence makes it appear that he must be mad!

As I type this I am reminded of the story of another martyr—Jim Elliot. He felt called to minister to the Waodani people of Ecuador, who were a violent people known to their neighbors as Aucas (from aqwa, the Quechuan word for “savage”). Jim knew this but did not let it deter him from his mission. He spent several years preparing for contact by first learning Quechuan language and culture, installing a campsite near Waodani tribal lands, and recruiting others to aid him in his work.

One of Jim’s recruits, Nate Saint, was a pilot who managed to locate a nearby Waodani community while flying; Nate’s sister, Rachel, befriended a Waodani exile who taught the mission team Waodani phrases. By airdropping gifts and calling out to the Waodani in their own language, the mission team sought to win their trust. And it seemed to work when the Waodani reciprocated.

Encouraged by this, Jim and four other male missionaries decided to meet with the Waodani face to face. All five were speared within the week. Complete submission of one’s will to God’s is crazy—if one measures sanity by human standards. But as servants of God, subordinating our will to His is the only thing we can safely do. “ ‘If you try to hang on to your life, you will lose it. But if you give up your life for my sake, you will save it’ ” (Luke 9:24, NLT).

_Malcolm Thomson, Orlando, Florida, USA_