---
title:  History Repeats Itself
date:  16/09/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 25:11

If Paul remained in Jerusalem or Caesarea, certain inherent dangers could have imperiled him since the Jews schemed to assassinate him. It is ironic that the Jews tried to kill Paul, while the Gentile governors tried to protect him from the “savage wolves.” Felix and Festus knew the history of tensions and, in this instance, did not want to administer a ruling on a case that was embroiled in Jewish doctrine. Therefore they were anxious to avoid unnecessary confrontation with the Jewish leaders. Not wanting to repeat a similar situation to Pilate’s over Jesus’ trial, knowing that He was innocent, Festus, like Felix, had no choice but to allow Paul’s decision, as a Roman citizen, to be tried by Caesar in Rome.

The secondary reason for Paul’s decision to go to Rome highlighted the notion that he was safer with the heathens. With the Jews’ hatred of Paul, born of bigotry and self-righteousness, his only option for selfpreservation was to follow the examples of David and Elijah, who felt safer among the heathen than with those who had rejected light from heaven.* 1 Samuel 27, 28 paints a grim picture of David, as he escapes Saul’s pursuits and decides to become a tenant of the Philistines. This was ironic because David was their chief menace, having killed Goliath and others. Likewise, the prophet Elijah was forced to get sustenance from the widow of Zarephath (1 Kings 17:9).

History was repeating itself, as God’s so-called people demonstrated the spirit of pride and selfishness and hardened their hearts against God’s true calling. In each case, the living Word of God was propagated to new communities, leading to conversions, which sped up the growth of the early church. As we await Christ’s return, it makes one wonder whether similar phenomena could be happening in today’s faith communities.

**React**

`Do you feel safer in the company of nonbelievers, where there might be less judgmental criticism and faultfinding, than in the presence of your faith community, where unholy, un-Christlike behaviors might be on display?`

_Hope Williams, Orlando, Florida, USA_