---
title:  The Unshackled Message
date:  17/09/2018
---

**Logos**: Acts 9:15; 20:22–24; 21:8–24; Gal. 1:15

**All Things Work Together . . . for Good? (Rom. 8:28)**

The story of the apostle Paul’s arrest and imprisonment, as outlined in the book of Acts, is an amazing example of God’s providential working for His people as He works out His purpose and establishes the Christian church.

This is done against powerful forces that were intent on maintaining established traditions and denying prophetic truths. On the surface, we observe the apparent struggle between Paul and the Jewish establishment. But we must also recognize the great controversy between Christ and Satan being played out against the backdrop—God is constantly snatching the victory when things seem bleak and apparently hopeless.

“All things work together for good” (Rom. 8:28). But we should be careful about how we interpret the meaning of good. Things working together for good does not necessarily mean that everything will work out in a manner that is pleasing to us; but things will work out according to God’s will and His good purpose.

**God Is Not Surprised by Arrest and Imprisonment (Acts 9:15)**

When Saul is persecuting and killing the members of the new church, God is not taken by surprise by this dilemma. We see a worried Ananias complaining to God about Saul, not knowing that God has already converted the murderous Saul to become His new mouthpiece. The Lord’s answer to Ananias in Acts 9:15, 16 was, “Go, for he is a chosen vessel of Mine to bear My name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel. For I will show him how many things he must suffer for My name’s sake” (NKJV).

**Paul Willingly Complied With God’s Plan to Be His Witness (Gal. 1:15, 16; Acts 20:22–24; 21:8–24)**

After Paul’s conversion, he became acutely aware of God’s plan for his life. God said that He would show Paul just how much he would have to suffer for Him while spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ. Before traveling to Jerusalem, Paul mentioned that he was going to that city, not knowing exactly what would happen to him. He only knew that the Holy Spirit warned him that prison and hardship awaited him (Acts 20:22–24).

But almost predictably, Paul, who was arrested and beaten by his fellow Jews and imprisoned and tried by the Roman powers, looked beyond all these trials and hardships and considered himself not only a prisoner of the Roman or Jewish state but also a prisoner of Jesus Christ (Eph. 3:1; 4:1; Philem. 1:1).

**Paul Before the Jewish and Roman Leaders (Acts 9:16; 26:17)**

Paul was a Jew as well as a Roman citizen. These two facts affected how he was treated by his captors. Paul’s Jewish heritage was well known to the Sanhedrin because he was once one of their preeminent members and did exactly as they were now doing. To the surprise of his Gentile captors, Paul revealed his Roman citizenship, which gave him certain privileges that enhanced his ministry in captivity. Because of his Roman citizenship, Paul should not have been placed in chains or beaten without first being found guilty. Paul also had the right to face his accusers to answer the charges brought against him. These facts meant that the Jews had to come to Caesarea to make their case against Paul.

The Jewish leaders started their appeal to Felix not by bringing any evidence of their charges against Paul but by flattering Felix. This was done because they felt that flattering Felix would be the most effective way of having Paul delivered to them so that they might have him killed. This tells us more about the perceived character of the governor than the value of the evidence the Jewish leaders had to present to Felix. Paul, on the other hand, was more interested in using this opportunity to present the truth of the gospel to leaders who might never again have had the opportunity to hear this truth.

God’s promised providential care for Paul, even while he suffered for the gospel of Jesus Christ, is amazing (Acts 9:16). God promised to rescue Paul from his own people as well as from the Gentiles (Acts 26:17). Paul’s Roman heritage gave him certain privileges that protected him from the Jewish hordes, who wanted to falsely accuse and kill him without a fair trial.

**Paul’s Message to Roman Authorities (Acts 24:22–27)**

In all his responses, Paul wanted to make it clear that the opposition he faced from the Jewish establishment was not based on wrongs against the Jews, their laws, their traditions, or any Roman laws. He wanted everyone to know that the real reason he was hated, beaten, and imprisoned was because of the gospel he preached, which included the resurrection of Jesus. This, Paul added, was in direct fulfillment of all that the prophets had prophesied. Paul spoke about faith in Christ Jesus and gave a discourse on righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come. Felix could hear no more, “That’s enough for now!” he said. “You may leave.”

Festus accused Paul of being insane, while King Agrippa asked Paul whether he thought he could convert him in such a short time. The dictates of the Roman rulers demonstrated that the Holy Spirit had convicted these hearers of Paul’s unshackled message. As Paul’s attack before his conversion was an attack of Jesus, even so his new, unambiguous declaration was a defense of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The gospel is certainly the power of God to convict and convert men.

_Robert Miller, Orlando, Florida, USA_