---
title:  Living for the Light, Even in the Darkness
date:  18/09/2018
---

**Testimony**: Acts 24:10–19

There are moments in our lives when we may feel like giving in. Some of us, like Paul, have been placed in situations where the walls appear to be closing in, and options of hope seem few. Paul, however, teaches us a lesson about standing for God, even in these desperate moments.

“Paul considered this God-given opportunity, and he improved it faithfully. He knew that the man and woman before him had the power to put him to death, or to preserve his life; yet he did not address them with praise or flattery. He knew that his words would be to them a savor of life or of death, and, forgetting all selfish considerations, he sought to arouse them to the peril of their souls.”1

“The apostle felt that whoever might listen to his words, the gospel had a claim upon them; they would either stand among the pure and holy around the great white throne, or with those to whom Christ should say: ‘Depart from me, ye that work iniquity.’ He knew that he must meet every hearer before the tribunal of Heaven, and must there render an account, not only for all that he had said and done, but for the motive and spirit of his words and deeds.

“He presented before his hearers the character of God—his righteousness, justice, and equity—and the nature and obligation of his law. He clearly showed man’s duty to live a life of sobriety and temperance, keeping the passions under the control of reason, in conformity to God’s law, and preserving the physical and mental powers in a healthful condition.”2

“Paul then endeavored to direct the minds of his hearers to the one great Sacrifice for sin. He pointed back to those sacrifices that were shadows of good things to come, and then presented Christ as the antitype of all those ceremonies,—the object to which they pointed as the one only source of life and hope for fallen man.”3

**React**

`1. Why do you think that Paul felt it was important to honor God, even when on trial?`

`2. How can we, as Christians, find the strength to be lights for God, while we are going through difficult situations?`

_Jillian Haughton, Orlando, Florida, USA_