---
title:  How Long, Lord?
date:  19/09/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 25:13–27; 26:12–32

Our divine confinement may come in various forms. You may experience a delay in your quest for academic or professional achievement. There may be a health issue that keeps you from reaching personal goals. For others, it may be that the plan you have for your life is completely changed, and life may feel like an out-of-control whirlwind.

How do we experience “divine confinement” and remain faithful and resolute? It is important to draw from previous experiences and spiritual lessons. This may seem almost incomprehensible, when faced with what seems like the fight of your life. However, faith is the one thing that we have when earthly freedoms or possessions are removed. Paul, no doubt, reflected upon the call that was on his life and his experiences with proclaiming the gospel (Acts 9:15, 16; 26:1–11; Rom. 1:1). How can we overcome, in times of spiritual or literal confinement?

Remember that God has a purpose for each of our lives. His ways and thoughts do not compare to ours (Isa. 55:8, 9), nor do we always understand His plan. Your “confinement” may become a testimony that leads others to know Jesus. Your story may not end like Paul’s, but when it is grounded in the faith and hope that only Christ gives, the result is eternal life.

A “confinement” is not a punishment but, instead, is an opportunity. Paul’s confinement resulted in opportunities to witness and share the gospel (Acts 26:27–31). Having a mind-set that reflects Jesus’ commission will help us to see opportunities, rather than setbacks (Matt. 28:19, 20).

We must be resolute in our belief in the supreme will of God. Abraham did not question God’s will when he required Isaac as a sacrifice; neither did Job during his trials (Gen. 22:12; Job 1:21). It is only through daily study and sincerely seeking God’s face that we grow to understand Him and His divine will (1 Pet. 5:10).

**React**

`What are some strategies you use to stay faithful during times when it seems there is no way out? How do you think Paul’s example shows us how to endure “divine confinement” in our own lives?`

_Autherene Opal Leighvard, Orlando, Florida, USA_