---
title:  Bold Witness in the Face of Death
date:  20/09/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 16:6–8

You have to like the godly boldness of the apostle Paul as he fearlessly did God’s bidding. It must be noted that whatever decision he made was under the guidance and promptings of the Holy Spirit. Normally, anytime we have an opportunity to witness for the Lord, the conventional wisdom is that we should. But notice Paul’s refusal to share the gospel with the people of Asia (see Acts 16:6–8). He did not refuse for personal reasons; Paul refused because he was wholly infused with and dutiful to the Holy Spirit. There lies the problem with commandment-keeping Christians. They feel their only obligation is to keep the letter of the Decalogue.

Attempting to keep God’s law without the guidance and infusion of the Holy Spirit is self-righteousness. The commandment keeper is one who listens to all the commands of God through the Holy Spirit, who at times commands us to do unconventional things, as was the case for Paul. This was evidenced again when a prophet revealed to him that in Jerusalem his freedom would be threatened; but Paul felt he had a Spirit-led obligation to be there, and therefore went.

When Paul and Silas were jailed, instead of lamenting their plight, itself a consequence of their faithfulness to the Holy Spirit, they prayed and sang. They both had an opportunity to escape after the earthquake, but again being led by the Holy Spirit and not putting self-preservation ahead of salvation, they remained in their chains, thus demonstrating their acceptance of Christ’s plan for their lives. As a result, the jailer, who was about to commit suicide, repented and accepted the gospel because of the witness of these two brave Spirit-filled men.

Even though Paul wasn’t afraid to die for his Master, he did not carelessly put his rights or his life in harm’s way but used the law to fight for fair and legal treatment. This gave him the opportunity to witness not just to the common people but to King Agrippa and other nobles of the day. King Agrippa came close to accepting the terms of the gospel, but despite his ultimate rejection, several others accepted Paul’s testimony.

Paul had a passion for Truth and was willing to go to great lengths to execute those who countered his faith. God saw that passion and gave him the opportunity to use it to spread the gospel. Possibly feeling some guilt for the innocent lives he destroyed earlier, he now faithfully resigned himself to that same fate.

He faced his executioners fearlessly because he knew there’s a crown awaiting him. His bold witness caused many souls to accept Christ and the good news of salvation.

_Paul Clarke, Orlando, Florida, USA_