---
title:  Convicted by a Convict
date:  21/09/2018
---

**Exploration**: Acts 26:24–32

**Conclude**

Paul, now a dedicated Christian convert after personally meeting Christ, is committed to bearing Christ’s name before the Gentiles, regardless of the inevitable sufferings he will endure. Enduring an unjust and illegitimate two-year imprisonment in Caesarea does not deter him from proclaiming the resurrected Christ before governors Felix and Festus and before King Agrippa—to the point where they were convinced and almost converted to Christianity. What an example of steadfastness Paul has left for us to follow! No form of suffering or punishment, just or unjust, must prohibit us from proclaiming the risen Christ. Let us purpose in our hearts and declare like Paul, “For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain” (Phil. 1:21, NIV).

**Consider**

- Creating a Venn diagram comparing and contrasting “freedom” and “imprisonment.” Try to derive at least four similarities and four differences.

- Interviewing someone who has spent time in prison or in jail to get their perspective as to what life behind bars is like and what freedoms they now enjoy.

- Visiting a jail or prison to get a firsthand impression of that institution.

- Sharing your testimony and/or faith with an influential person in your community or country, someone like a congressperson, senator, member of parliament, justice of the peace, judge, or president or prime minister of your country.

- Composing song lyrics about freedom, reminding us of the freedom we have in Christ.

- Taking a long walk by yourself where you can talk to Jesus, expressing how grateful you are to worship freely.

- Praying for those who are imprisoned for their Christian beliefs and for those who are mentally imprisoned.

- Drawing a person or another creature (bird or animal) that was at first imprisoned but has since been set free and capturing the expressions of the face and body in your illustration.

**Connect**

Revelation 2:10.

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 38, “Paul a Prisoner”; chapter 39, “The Trial at Caesarea.”

_Arlene Thomson, Orlando, Florida, USA_