---
title:  The Hour of His JudgmentSabbath Afternoon
date:  29/04/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Daniel 8, Daniel 9, Ezra 7, Matt. 3:13–17, Rom. 5:6–9, Mark 15:38, Lev. 16:16.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “And do this, knowing the time, that now it is high time to awake out of sleep; for now our salvation is nearer than when we first believed. The night is far spent, the day is at hand” (Romans 13:11, 12, NKJV).

Several years ago, _National Geographic_ magazine described a forest fire in Yellowstone National Park in the United States. After it ended, forest rangers trekked up a mountain to assess the damage. One ranger found a bird literally burned to ashes at the base of a tree. Somewhat sickened by the eerie sight, he knocked over the bird with a stick.

When he struck it, three tiny baby birds scurried from under their dead mother’s wings. The loving mother, keenly aware of impending disaster, had carried her offspring to the base of the tree and had gathered them under her wings. She could have flown to safety but had refused to abandon her babies. What a picture of the believer who is safe in Christ!

The fires of God’s judgment burned themselves out on Him, at Calvary, and all who are in Christ are safe forever beneath His wings. At the cross, Christ was judged as a condemned sinner so that we could be judged as righteous citizens of the heavenly kingdom. He was judged as a criminal so that we could be set free from the destructive fires of eternal loss, both figuratively and, yes, literally, as well.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, May 6._---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We form a part of the great web of humanity, and a mutual influence passes from one to another, not only in the church but the family in heaven and the family on earth blend, in order that Christ may become a power in the world. All the jewels of truth given to patriarchs and prophets, which have been accumulating from age to age, and from generation to generation, are to be gathered up, as hereditary trusts. . . .<br/>
God’s people of today have all the privileges and opportunities of former generations and increased light to make them more powerful in the work of God than the people of preceding generations have been. These advantages demand corresponding returns. In harmony with our heavenly treasures are to be our efforts to open the way before others.<br/>
The Lord is at hand. Heavenly intelligences united with sanctified influences of earth are to proclaim the third angel’s message and sound the warning, The end of all things is at hand. “For yet a little while, and he that shall come will come, and will not tarry” (Hebrews 10:37). A people are to be prepared to stand in the day of the Lord, and having done all, to stand.—This Day With God, p. 170.

The night is far spent, the day is at hand: let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light. Romans 13:12. . . .<br/>
The coming of the Lord draweth nigh. We have but a little time in which to make ready. If precious opportunities are slighted, it will result in eternal loss. We need a close connection with God. We are not safe a moment unless guided and controlled by the Holy Spirit. . . .<br/>
Life is short. The things of the world must perish with the using. Let us be wise, and build for eternity. We cannot afford to idle away our precious moments, or engage in busy activities that will bring forth no fruit for eternity. Let the time . . . be spent in gaining a knowledge of the Scriptures, in beautifying our life, and blessing and ennobling the life and character of others. This work will meet the approval of God, and win for us the heavenly benediction of “Well done.”—Our High Calling, p. 187.

The omnipotent power of the Holy Spirit is the defense of every contrite soul. No one who in penitence and faith has claimed His protection will Christ permit to pass under the enemy’s power. It is true that Satan is a powerful being; but, thank God, we have a mighty Saviour, who cast out the evil one from heaven. Satan is pleased when we magnify his power. Why not talk of Jesus? Why not magnify His power and His love?—The Ministry of Healing, p. 94.