---
title:  The Messiah “Cut Off”
date:  03/05/2023
---

Gabriel began this 490-year prophecy with an event that was extremely important to Daniel and to the Jews—the command to restore and build Jerusalem. Though various decrees had been passed regarding Jerusalem, in Ezra 7, we discover that the decree passed in 457 b.c. allowed the Jews not only to return to their homeland but also to establish themselves as a religious community (see Ezra 7:13, 27).

It is significant to note that Artaxerxes’s decree was issued in the autumn of 457 b.c. From this decree, in 457 b.c., to the Messiah, according to Daniel, would be 69 weeks, or 483 years. If we begin at 457 b.c. and move forward on history’s time line, we arrive at a.d. 27.

The word Messiah means “the anointed one.” In a.d. 27, Jesus Christ, the Messiah, was baptized. (See Matt. 3:13–17.) Daniel predicted hundreds of years in advance the exact year for the baptism of Christ, the time at which Jesus would begin His three and a half years of ministry.

`Read Romans 5:6–9 along with Daniel 9:26. What great truths are revealed here?`

“ ‘And after the sixty-two weeks Messiah shall be cut off, but not for Himself’ ” (Dan. 9:26, NKJV). The Messiah would be “cut off,” or crucified. The verse adds “ ‘but not for Himself.’ ” In other words, the death of Christ on Calvary’s cross was for us, not for Himself, which is why Paul could write: “But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us” (Rom. 5:8, NKJV).

In Daniel 9:27, we read that in the middle of the week, the last seven years, Christ would “ ‘bring an end to sacrifice and offering’ ” (NKJV). In the middle of this seventieth week, in a.d. 31, Christ confirmed the everlasting covenant with His blood by dying on the cross, and the sacrificial system lost any and all prophetic significance.

These prophecies reveal that Christ, the Messiah, would be crucified and cause the sacrificial system to cease its prophetic importance in the spring of a.d. 31. These predictions were fulfilled in every detail. Exactly at Passover, when the high priest was offering the Passover lamb, Christ was sacrificed for us.

`With what has been written above in mind, read Mark 15:38 and Matthew 3:15, 16. How do these verses help us understand the prophecy of Daniel 9:24–27?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The time of the first advent and of some of the chief events clustering about the Saviour’s lifework was made known by the angel Gabriel to Daniel. “Seventy weeks,” said the angel, “are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy.” Daniel 9:24. . . .<br/>
The seventy weeks, or four hundred and ninety days, represent four hundred and ninety years. A starting point for this ­period is given: “Know therefore and understand, that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the Prince shall be seven weeks, and threescore and two weeks” (Daniel 9:25), sixty-nine weeks, or four hundred and eighty-three years. The commandment to restore and build Jerusalem . . . went into effect in the autumn of 457 b.c. See Ezra 6:14; 7:1, 9. From this time four hundred and eighty-three years extend to the autumn of a.d. 27. According to the prophecy, this period was to reach to the Messiah, the Anointed One. In a.d. 27, Jesus at His baptism received the anointing of the Holy Spirit and soon afterward began His ministry. Then the message was proclaimed, “The time is fulfilled.” Mark 1:15.—Prophets and Kings, p. 698.

For seven years after the Saviour entered on His ministry, the gospel was to be preached especially to the Jews; for three and a half years by Christ Himself, and afterward by the apostles. “In the midst of the week He shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease.” Daniel 9:27. In the spring of a.d. 31, Christ, the true Sacrifice, was offered on Calvary. Then the veil of the temple was rent in twain, showing that the sacredness and significance of the sacrificial service had departed. The time had come for the earthly sacrifice and oblation to cease.<br/>
The one week—seven years—ended in a.d. 34. Then by the stoning of Stephen the Jews finally sealed their rejection of the ­gospel.—Prophets and Kings, p. 699.

Beyond the cross of Calvary, with its agony and shame, Jesus looked forward to the great final day, when the prince of the power of the air will meet his destruction in the earth so long marred by his rebellion. . . .<br/>
Henceforward Christ’s followers were to look upon Satan as a conquered foe. Upon the cross, Jesus was to gain the victory for them; that victory He desired them to accept as their own. “Behold,” He said, “I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt you.” . . .<br/>
The Saviour is by the side of His tempted and tried ones. With Him there can be no such thing as failure, loss, impossibility, or defeat; we can do all things through Him who strengthens us.—The Desire of Ages, p. 490.