---
title:  Further Thought
date:  05/05/2023
---

Here’s a quick and easy way to look at the 70-week prophecy of Daniel 9:24–27.

First, there are the 70 weeks (Dan. 9:24),

Next, there are the seven weeks and 62 weeks, or 69 weeks (Dan. 9:25) of the 70 weeks.

There’s the last week, the seventieth (Dan. 9:27).

And, finally, that last week is divided—“in the middle of the week” (Dan. 9:27)—into two three-and-a-half-year sections.

That’s it. Seventy weeks, which are composed of sixty-nine weeks and one week. And that one week is divided in half. Just plug in the date, 457 b.c., at the beginning, and with simple math—yes, we come to 1844 on the time line.

Also, in describing the 2,300 days, Daniel 8 never said when the 2,300 days began. “Unto two thousand and three hundred days; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed” (Dan. 8:14). “Unto two thousand and three hundred days”—from what time? Why not from the time when Daniel had the vision itself, the “third year of the reign of King Belshazzar” (Dan. 8:1)?

That doesn’t work. The vision in Daniel 8 didn’t include Babylon. It started with kingdoms after it (i.e., Media-Persia, Greece, and Rome, up to “the end”). Why date an event, the cleansing of the sanctuary, which is in the vision, from an event, the reign of the kingdom of Babylon, which is not? The starting date for the climax of the vision should come from within the vision itself, which started with Media-Persia and extends to “the end.” That’s a lot of years.

Which one began it? We are not told in Daniel 8. We are told in Daniel 9.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In class, discuss the close relationship between the gospel and judgment as seen in these two parts of what is, really, one prophec­y. Why is the link between the two such good news for us? How should this link help alleviate the fear that many have had regarding the idea of judgment?`

`Dwell more on the truth, revealed in Daniel 9:26, that the Messiah was cut off, but “ ‘not for Himself’ ” (NKJV). What is this about? For whom was He cut off, and why?`

`Read again Leviticus 16:16 and Leviticus 23:26–29. Talk about the reason for the cleansing of the sanctuary (Lev. 16:16) and how the people were supposed to act when it happened (Lev. 23:26–29). What is the relationship between what happened then and what it should mean for us today?`