---
title:  Rest, Friendships, And Healing
date:  07/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 42:7–20; Genesis 42:21–24; Matthew 18:21–35; Luke 23:34; Genesis 50:15–21.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Now don’t be worried. Don’t be angry with yourselves for what you did. It was God’s plan for me to come here. I am here to save people’s lives’ ” (Genesis 45:5, ERV).

A WOMAN accuses of man of a crime. She tells the police that the man forced her to have sex. Some people have questions about her story. But the woman points to the man in a police lineup. She says that he hurt her, for sure.

The man, Johnny, goes to prison. 14 years later, scientific tests prove Johnny did not do the crime. The woman, Joan, understands she blamed the wrong man.

Joan wants to meet Johnny after he is released from prison. What will Johnny do when he comes face-to-face with the woman who destroyed his life for so many years?

Joan waits in a room at the prison. When Johnny comes in, he and Joan look at each other. Joan starts to cry.

Joan tells someone later, “Johnny took my hands. He looked at me and said, ‘I forgive you.’ For 14 years I hated this man. I wanted him to die. But he told me he forgave me after I did him so much wrong. I cannot believe it! That is when I started to understand forgiveness. I started to heal and have real rest.”

This week we study the topic of forgiveness. We will learn how forgiveness can heal human hearts that need rest.