---
title:  Facing The Past 
date:  08/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Soon, the life of Joseph improves in big ways. Joseph gets out of prison after he tells Pharaoh, the king, the correct meaning of his dreams. Then Pharaoh puts Joseph in charge of the whole country (Genesis 41). Joseph marries Asenath, the daughter of an Egyptian holy leader. Joseph and Asenath have two sons. Thanks to Joseph, the warehouses in Egypt are full of food. Just as Joseph said, the food shortage starts. Then the brothers of Joseph come to Egypt.

`Read about the first meeting between Joseph and his brothers in Genesis 42:7–20. Why does Joseph behave the way he does? What is he trying to do?`

Joseph is now a powerful man. He can get even with his brothers if he wants to. He can get away with revenge too. But Joseph does not choose revenge. He chooses mercy. He worries about his family at home. He worries about his father most of all. Is his father alive? And what about Benjamin, the younger brother of Joseph? Is Benjamin in the same danger that Joseph was in from their older brothers? Joseph now is powerful enough to look after the helpless members in his family. He can take good care of them. That is exactly what Joseph chooses to do.

We must act the same as Joseph. When our family members are harmed by other family members, we must not ever accept this behavior. Each of us is precious in the eyes of God. Jesus paid the price on the cross for us all.

`Why does Jesus care so deeply about the pain we suffer? For the answer, read Matthew 25:41–46.`

Jesus bought each one of us with His blood. We belong to Him. Anyone who attacks another person and hurts them really attacks the property of Jesus.

Forcing anyone to have sex is wrong. So is hitting or beating someone. When these two things happen in families, we need to get help. These problems are not private. You will need outside help. Are you or someone in your family being hurt or forced to have sex with another family member? Then please get help from a professional you can trust.

`What are some Bible rules that you can follow to help you with whatever family problem you may have right now?`