---
title:  The Tests 
date:  09/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Joseph forgives his brothers. We do not know when this happens. But he must do so shortly after they come to Egypt. For sure, Joseph never can have success if he refuses to forgive. Why? Because the anger will eat away at his heart. Anger will hurt our friendship with God, too.

Studies show that people who heal from awful suffering do so because they forgive the ones who hurt them. When we refuse to forgive, our lives continue to be destroyed by our suffering. Forgiveness frees us from pain. Forgiveness is about us more than the person who wronged us.

Yes, Joseph forgives his brothers. But he is not willing to let things be the way they were in the past. So, Joseph must make sure his brothers really have changed.

`What does Joseph hear his brothers say? For the answer, read Genesis 42:21–24. What does Joseph learn about his brothers from their conversation?`

The brothers are not aware that Joseph can understand anything they say. Joseph hears his brothers confess their sin against him. The brothers thought that by selling Joseph into slavery they will be free of his dreams, his bad reports about them, and watching their father show Joseph more love. Did they find the rest they wanted when they got rid of Joseph? Not at all. They have felt guilty all these years. Their evil act against Joseph has made them tired and worn out. They have been filled with awful fear that God will make them pay for what they did to Joseph. Joseph feels sorry for their suffering. He cries for them.

Joseph knows the food shortage will continue for several more years. So, He tells them to bring Benjamin with them the next time they come to buy food (Genesis 42:20). Joseph also keeps Simeon prisoner (Genesis 42:24).

When Joseph sees Benjamin alive, he holds a feast. At the feast, Joseph shows that Benjamin is his favorite person there (Genesis 43:34). This is a test. Joseph wants to see if his brothers will behave with jealous hearts the way they did in the past. They do not. But Joseph is still not ready to trust his brothers. He knows how tricky they can be. They lied to a whole town, remember (Genesis 34:13)? Joseph knows they must have lied to their father about selling him into slavery (Genesis 37:31–34). So, Joseph will give them one more test (read Genesis 44).