---
title:  Forgive And Forget? 
date:  10/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What does our forgiving other people do for us? For the answer, read Matthew 18:21–35.`

We must understand all the things that God has forgiven us for because of Jesus. This understanding is one of the most important parts of learning how to forgive other people. We all have sinned. We have sinned against other people and against God Himself.

Every sin is a sin against our Lord. But because of Jesus, we can ask God for full forgiveness for all our sins. We have done nothing to earn this precious gift from heaven. God forgives us because of His mercy. Not because of anything we do. When we understand these Bible truths, we can accept this perfect gift of forgiveness from God. Then we can forgive the ones who have hurt us, too. Why do we need to forgive them? Do we need to forgive others because they have earned forgiveness? No, we forgive the ones who wronged us because God forgives us. We all need forgiveness that we did nothing to earn.

As we saw, Joseph offers a second chance to his brothers. Joseph feels no anger in his heart for the evil things his brothers did to him in the past.

In a family when we each become experts at how to hurt each other, can we have a new start? Difficult, yes. But we can start over with the help of God. Joseph does not hurt his brothers for all they did to him. Joseph does not try to get revenge against them. Joseph puts the past behind him. He moves on with life. He accepts his brothers and shows them love. What if Joseph had a different feeling in his heart? Then, for sure, this story will have a different ending, and not a happy one.

`“ ‘It is a great [wonderful] blessing when people are forgiven for the wrongs they have done, when their sins are erased! It is a great blessing when the Lord accepts people as if they are without sin!’ ” (Romans 4:7, 8, ERV). What is Paul telling us in these verses about the gift God has given us in Jesus? How should this wonderful promise change our lives for the better? How should this promise also help us to show love and forgiveness to the people who have hurt us the most?`