---
title:  Making Forgiveness Personal 
date:  11/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Do you need to forgive someone? Then here is what you must do. You must confess that you are hurt. This is not always easy to do. Sometimes we want to hide our feelings or behave as if no one hurt us. But telling God we are angry is fine. We see the writers in the Psalms do this all the time. So, feel free to tell God you do not like what happened. Tell God that the way someone behaved hurts you, makes you sad, or angry.

In the story about Joseph, we see him cry when he      meets his brothers again. For sure, in that moment Joseph feels some of the pain from his past.

`What does Jesus say on the cross? What do His words tell us about the best time to forgive someone? For the answer, read Luke 23:34.`

Jesus did not wait for us to ask for His forgiveness. So, we do not need to wait for the person who wronged us to ask for forgiveness. We can forgive other people without having them accept our forgiveness first.

`What do Luke 6:28 and Matthew 5:44 teach us about how we should feel about the people who hurt us? What do we need to show them?`

Forgiveness and love both start with a choice. They do not start with a feeling. We can make the choice to forgive people, even if we do not feel ready to forgive them yet. God knows “ ‘that is something people cannot do, but God can. He can do anything’ ” (Mark 10:27, ERV). Jesus tells us to pray for those who hurt us. What if the person who hurt us is already dead? Then we can pray for God to heal our hearts so that we can forgive.

Forgiveness is not always easy. The pain that other people caused us can be awful. Our suffering can leave us hurt, broken, and with crippled hearts. Healing will come if we allow it. But we must not hold on to anger and hate. Anger and hate make healing harder. Healing may not be possible at all when our hearts are full of anger and hate.

The Cross is the best example of the price God paid to forgive us. He knew many people will reject Him. But the Lord went to the cross to die for us anyway. If the Lord can do that for us, we can learn to forgive other people.