---
title:  Finding Rest After We Forgive 
date:  12/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The family of Joseph finally arrives in Egypt. The brothers of Joseph must have explained to their father how they sold Joseph as a slave years ago. The son that Jacob thought wild animals killed is now in charge of Egypt!

`What are the brothers of Joseph worried about in Genesis 50:15–21? Why do you think they are worried? What does this fear say about them?`

The brothers of Joseph have been living in Egypt for 17 years now (Genesis 47:28). But when Jacob dies, the brothers are afraid Joseph will take his revenge on them. The brothers understand all over again how much they hurt Joseph. Joseph tells them again that he forgives them after their father dies. This experience of forgiving again is good for both Joseph and his brothers, for sure.

When someone hurts us deeply, we may need to forgive them many times. When we remember the wrong, we must go to God right away in prayer. We must ask God to help us. We must make the choice to forgive again.

`Read Genesis 50:20. How does this verse help explain why Joseph is so willing to forgive his brothers for the wrong they did to him?`

Joseph firmly believes that his life is part of the big plan that God made to help save the people on the earth from famine at that time. A famine is a food shortage. Joseph also believes that God chose him to help his family become a mighty and important nation. Joseph knows that God turned the evil plans of his brothers into something good. That is why Joseph can forgive his brothers for the sin they did against them.

`The story about Joseph has a happy ending. How do we feel when the ending to a story is not so happy? When Jesus comes back a second time, He will put an end to sin. Jesus will also end the worldwide war between good and evil. Then we will have a real happy ending to everything bad that has happened on this earth. How does this hope help you to live with the experiences and stories in life that are not so happy now?`