---
title:  Further Thought
date:  13/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Joseph shows us Jesus in many ways. “Joseph was sold by his own brothers to men who did not believe in God. Jesus was sold to His worst enemies by one of His own followers. Joseph was accused of something he did not do. Then he was thrown into prison because he was innocent. In the same way, people hated and rejected Jesus because He was holy. Jesus was not guilty of doing any wrong. But He was sent to the cross anyway because false witnesses lied about Him. Joseph is patient and gentle when people hurt him and are not fair to him. Joseph also is ready to forgive his brothers. His heart is filled with mercy for his brothers who should love him. But the hearts of his brothers are filled with hate for Joseph. This hate is not natural. Joseph shows us the Savior who did not complain when evil men hurt him and were filled with hate against Him. Joseph shows us the forgiveness of Jesus for His killers. Joseph also shows us the forgiveness Jesus gives to all people who come to Him, confess their sins, and wish to be pardoned.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 239, 240, adapted.

“We have no excuse for having unforgiving hearts. When someone shows no mercy to other people, he shows that he does not know anything about the mercy and forgiveness that comes from God. When God forgives, the heart of the sinner comes close to the mighty heart of the One whose love has no limits. Love from God pours into the heart of the sinner. From the sinner, this love pours out to other people. Jesus showed tender mercy in His own life. This mercy will be seen in the people who share in His loving favor and forgiveness.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 251, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Someone said, “Our not forgiving someone is the same as drinking poison and hoping the other person will die.” These words are strong. What do you think they mean?`

`Why do you think Joseph gave his brothers so many “tests” to pass before he told them who he really was? What did all these tests do for Joseph and for his brothers?`

`The manager of the house of Joseph must know some of the story about the brothers of Joseph (read Genesis 44:1–12. How do you think this experience of watching Joseph forgive his brothers changed the manager? How does your experience of forgiveness change the lives of people who watch what is happening in your life?`