---
title:  The New Way To God
date:  26/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Hebrews 9:24; Hebrews 12:18–21; Leviticus 16:1, 2; Hebrews 10:19–22; Hebrews 12:22–24.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ Christ [Jesus] went into the Most Holy Place. But it was not the man-made one, which is only a copy of the real one. He went into heaven, and he is there now before [in front of] God to help us” (Hebrews 9:24, ERV).

THE FOLLOWERS OF JESUS are filled with joy. A little while ago, they were on the Hill of Olives with Jesus, their Master and Friend. Before Jesus left the earth, He invited His followers to come to God in His Name. Then the followers watched Jesus go to heaven. In heaven, God made Jesus the King of the whole earth. Now the followers of Jesus know that God will answer their prayers with favor (John 14:13, 14). Yes, the followers must keep living on earth where evil people may hurt them. But the followers are full of hope. They know that Jesus went to heaven to make a home for them (John 14:1–3). Jesus is in charge of saving them from sin. Jesus also made a new way for them into heaven. Jesus made this way by His blood.

The teaching that Jesus went to heaven is important to the book of Hebrews. After He went to heaven, Jesus started His work as our High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader, and King. Most important, the New Agreement started. Now we can come to God with firm trust and bold faith. We can do these things because of Jesus and His holy life.