---
title:  When Jesus Comes To The Father 
date:  27/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Why does Jesus leave this earth and go to heaven? For the answer, read Hebrews 9:24.`

To help us understand Hebrews 9:24, let us first look at the feasts that God gave to Israel: “ ‘Three times a year you must celebrate a feast in my honor. Celebrate the Feast of Unleavened [flat] Bread. For seven days, eat bread made without yeast [makes dough rise], just as I commanded you. Do it at the appointed [chosen] time in the month of Aviv [late March]. You came out of Egypt in that month. You must not come to worship me with your hands empty [with no offering]. Celebrate the Feast of Weeks. Bring the first share [part] of your crops from your fields. Celebrate the Feast of Booths [shelters]. Hold it in the fall when you gather in [collect] your crops from your fields. Three times a year all your men must come to worship me. I am your Lord and King’ ” (Exodus 23:14–17, NIrV).

So, the Feast of Unleavened Bread, or Passover, showed the time when God freed Israel from Egypt. Next came the Feast of Weeks, also named Pentecost. By New Testament times, the Jews celebrated Pentecost as the time when God gave Israel the law at Sinai. Finally, the Feast of Booths showed the time when God cared for Israel in the desert.

Now that we reviewed the feasts, let us go back to Hebrews 9:24. This verse shows Jesus coming to the Father after He wakes up from the dead. Jesus does not come empty-handed. He offers God a better gift than any priest, or holy leader, can give: His own blood (Hebrews 9:23, 24).

Jesus honors all the special feasts right on time. He dies at the ninth hour the day before Passover. The ninth hour is the time when the Passover lamb is killed (John 19:14; Matthew 27:45–50). Then Jesus wakes up from the dead and goes to heaven where God accepts His offering for our sins (John 20:17; 1 Corinthians 15:20). On this day, the priest waves the ripe barley to show thanks to God for the first crops (Leviticus 23:10–12). 40 days later, Jesus sits down at the right side of God on the day of Pentecost (Acts 1, 2). At this time, the New Agreement starts.

`Why did males in Bible times travel to the feasts? They went to “see [God’s] face” (Psalm 17:15, ERV). To “see the face of God” shows us someone who asks God for help (2 Chronicles 7:14; Psalm 27:8; Psalm 105:4). That is what Jesus does when He goes to heaven. He asks God to help us.`