---
title:  The Invitation From God 
date:  28/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What experience does Israel have at Sinai? For the answer, read Hebrews 12:18–21.`

God has a special plan for His people after He frees them from Egypt. What is this plan? God wants a special, personal friendship with His people. God tells Israel, “ ‘You people saw what I did to the people of Egypt. You saw that I carried you out of Egypt like [the same as] an eagle and brought you here to me’ ” (Exodus 19:3, 4, ERV).

So, God tells Moses to help the people get ready to meet Him (Exodus 19:10–15). The people who do not get ready will die. So, the people get ready for two days. They wash their clothes. They pray. They ask God to clean their hearts from sin. On the third day, the people “wait until the trumpet blows” first before they “go near the mountain” (Exodus 19:13, NIrV). God wants the people to have the same experience Moses and the leaders will have later when they go up the mountain to meet God. At that time, the leaders “saw God, and ate and drank” and did not die (Exodus 24:9–11, NLV). Later, Israel understands that God showed His glory to them when He came down on the mountain. They also learned that humans can “continue living even after God speaks to” them (Deuteronomy 5:24, ERV). But when the time comes for the people to come near the mountain, they do not have enough faith. Moses talks about this time many years later: “ ‘You were afraid of the fire and did not want to approach the mountain” (Deuteronomy 5:5, NLT). So, the people ask Moses to go up the mountain to talk to God for them (Deuteronomy 5:25–27; compare with Exodus 20:18–21).

God showed His glory at Sinai to teach His people an important lesson. God wanted His people to “fear” or respect Him. When we “respect” the Lord, we will have life, wisdom, and honor (Deuteronomy 4:10; compare with Psalm 111:10; Proverbs 1:7; Proverbs 9:10; Proverbs 10:27). God also wanted His people to see that He is full of mercy and love for His people (Exodus 34:4–8). God wanted His people to come to meet with Him so much. But they were afraid and asked Moses to go to God for them. God did not want His people to be afraid of Him. Their fear was not part of His plan. The people felt fear because they had no faith.

`Why should we not be afraid to come near our holy God? What must we do first to get ready to come near Him?`