---
title:  The Need For A Curtain 
date:  01/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Israelites in the desert built the Tent of the Agreement. There they met God and worshiped Him. The Tent had several “curtains,” a word written as “katepetasma” in the Hebrew language. First, a curtain or screen went around the whole yard for the Tent (Exodus 38:18). This screen was the same as a wall. Second, a curtain separated the Tent from the yard outside (Exodus 36:37). Third, a curtain hung between the Holy Room and the Most Holy Room inside the Tent (Exodus 26:31–35). So, these curtains were the same as doors and walls. Only some people were allowed across them.

`Read Leviticus 16:1, 2 and Leviticus 10:1–3. What warning do we read about in these verses?`

After Israel worshiped the gold cow, God refused to lead the people to the Promised Land. The people were stubborn. God did not want the people to do anything that caused Him to destroy them on the way (Exodus 33:3). So, Moses moved the Tent of the Agreement far away from the camp (Exodus 33:7). Then Moses asked God to forgive Israel. God forgave them. God also agreed to take the people to the Promised Land (Exodus 33:12–20). But first God made rules to protect Israel while He lived with them.

The Israelites set up their camp in the shape of an empty square. The Tent of the Agreement was put in the middle of this square. Then the Levites camped around the Tent to protect it and its furniture from anyone who was not a Levite (Numbers 1:51). So, we see that the Levites were the same as a human “curtain” that protected the people of Israel: “The Levites will set up their tents so that they surround [go all the way around] the Tent of the Agreement. They will serve as guards [watchmen] and keep the people away from the Tent. This will protect the Israelites from the Lord’s anger” (Numbers 1:53, ERV).

Jesus, our High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader, is our “curtain.” Jesus became a man to show us the saving mercy of God (John 1:14–18). God lived in His Son and made His home with us. Because of Jesus, a holy and perfect God can live among people who are far from perfect.

`God made the earth and sky. This same God lived among people who were slaves that escaped from Egypt. What does that Bible truth teach us about how close God can be to us?`