---
title:  The New And Living Way 
date:  02/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 10:19–22. What invitation does Paul share with us in these verses?`

Paul tells us that Jesus invites us to follow Him inside the temple in heaven. This idea agrees with Bible truth we already learned in Hebrews. Jesus is the “leader of our faith” (Hebrews 12:2, ERV). Jesus went ahead of us to open a new way behind the curtain in the Most Holy Room (Hebrews 6:19, 20; Hebrews 2:10). This new way is named the New Agreement. The Agreement started when Jesus went back to heaven and God accepted His offering for our sins. The new way is different from the Old Agreement. Paul says the Old Agreement is “old and useless” and “ready to disappear” (Hebrews 8:13, ERV). Under the New Agreement, God forgives us for our sins. God also writes His law in our hearts. Now we can come to God with sure faith. Have we done anything to make ourselves worthy to come near to God? Of course not! We can come near to God only because of Jesus. Jesus did everything the Agreement said needed to be done so that God can freely forgive us.

Paul says that Old Agreement started when two things happened: (1) The Holy Tent of Meeting was built. (2) Also, the priests, or religious leaders, were separated from the rest of Israel to serve God (Hebrews 9:18–21; compare with Exodus 40; Leviticus 8, 9). God made the Old Agreement because He wanted a close personal connection with His people, Israel (Exodus 19:4–6). When Israel accepted the agreement, God right away commanded them to build Him a house. Then He lived among them. The agreement started when God came to live with His people. The New Agreement works the same way for us (Hebrews 5:1–10; Hebrews 7:1–8:13).

Jesus did something else for us when He became our High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader. Jesus put a stop to the visits Satan made to heaven to accuse us in front of God. Zechariah 3 shows how Satan went to God and accused Joshua the high priest. Joshua is a word picture for the people of God. Satan accused Job, too (Job 1, 2). But because Jesus made an offering for our sins, God threw Satan out of heaven (Revelation 12:7–12; compare with John 12:31; John 16:11). Now Jesus fights for us and saves us!

`What will Satan say against you to God if God allowed Satan to accuse you? What is your only hope?`