---
title:  They Will See His Face 
date:  03/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 12:22–24. In these verses, Paul says, “You have come to a hill called [named] Zion. You have come to the city of the living God. It is the Jerusalem in heaven” (Hebrews 12:22–24, WE). What is Paul talking about?`

Paul says the followers of Jesus “come” to Zion. Zion is another name for Jerusalem. By faith, the followers come to the Jerusalem in heaven where they will live in the future. The city of heaven is part of the things they “do not see” now but “hope to get” by faith (Hebrews 11:1, WE).

But this Bible truth is not the whole meaning of Hebrews 12:22–24. We also come to Zion because of Jesus. Jesus gives us a place where we may sit with Him right now in heaven (Ephesians 2:5, 6; Colossians 3:1). His being in heaven right now is not just Bible truth. His being in heaven right now is Bible fact and history. This history encourages us to “keep our trust in Jesus Christ” and “hold on to the things we believe” (Hebrews 4:14, 16, NLV, ERV).

So, because of Jesus we can live in heaven right now with God. Our lives should show we believe this Bible truth. Because of Jesus, we are “blessed to hear God’s good message and see the great power of his new world” (Hebrews 6:4, 5, ERV). Jesus is our High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader, in heaven right now. “This promise gives our hearts something to hold on to. It keeps our hearts strong and steady. It will take us into the Holy Place right inside God's house” (Hebrews 6:19, WE). We can trust in this promise, for sure (Hebrews 7:22).

`God has a plan not only for Jesus, but for us, too. Remember how we said that when Jesus went to heaven, He honored all the special feasts right on time? We saw how Jesus honored the Passover and the Feast of Weeks (read the study for Sunday). Hebrews and Revelation show us that Jesus will keep the final feast in the future: the Feast of Booths, or Shelters. We will celebrate this feast with Jesus when we are in “the city that is planned and built by God” (Hebrews 11:10, 13–16, ERV). This city is the New Jerusalem in heaven. We will not build shelters there in the city the way the Israelites did in the city of old Jerusalem. God is our shelter or tent. God Himself will come from heaven to this earth. Then we will live with Him forever (Revelation 7:15–17; Revelation 21:1–4; Revelation 22:1–5; Numbers 6:24–26).`