---
title:  Further Thought
date:  04/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Jesus goes back to heaven. His followers know that His leaving is a sign that God will keep His promise. God will send them the Holy Spirit. The followers of Jesus must wait for this blessing before they start their work for God. When Jesus enters the gates of heaven, God tells Jesus to sit on His throne. Angels stand all around the throne and give Jesus honor and praise. Then God pours His Holy Spirit on the followers of Jesus. God gives them a large amount of His Spirit. The large gift gives glory to Jesus. This glory is the same glory that Jesus always had with the Father from the beginning. The gift of the Holy Spirit shows the followers that God made Jesus their High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader, and King. The gift of the Holy Spirit also shows the followers that God gave Jesus, their High Priest and King, control over everything in heaven and on earth. . . .

“So, the followers of Jesus can talk about Him with sure hearts. Jesus is their Friend. He is their Older Brother, too. Jesus brought His followers into close friendship with Himself. Now by faith, the followers sit with Jesus in heaven.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 38, 46, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`A writer of the psalms said, “I am thirsty for God. I am thirsty for the living God. When can I go and meet with him?” (Psalm 42:2, NIrV). How can we also have this same “thirst” or wish to come near God? What are the things that help us feel joy in knowing God and meeting with Him?`

`Israel asked Moses to meet with God for them so they did not need to. This story shows us an important Bible truth. We need to come to God on our own. We often allow other people to study the Bible for us. Some people may feel that the prayers of other people are better than their own, too. So, they let other people do their praying for them. Why must we avoid these mistakes? Why can we, because of Jesus, come to God on our own without needing anyone else to go to God for us?`

`Hebrews is about having hope in the saving mercy of God. We can be sure God saves us because of everything Jesus does for us. Why must we be careful not to have false faith? A person shows false faith when he refuses to obey God and expects God to continue to bless Him and give him His loving favor.`