---
title:  Jesus Makes Everything New!
date:   23/03/2019
---

_It is now time for Jesus to be our King._

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Revelation 19:6–9; John 14:1–3; Revelation 19:11–16; Revelation 20:1–3; Jeremiah 4:23–26; Revelation 20:4–6; Revelation 21:2–8, 9–21.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “The One who was sitting on the throne said, ‘Look! I am making everything new!’ Then he said, ‘Write this, because these words are true and can be trusted’ ” (Revelation 21:5, ICB)

**BABYLON WILL BE DESTROYED**. That is bad news for the people who support this evil religious power. But Babylon’s end is good news for God’s people (Revelation 19:1–7). Babylon caused the governments on the earth to hurt God’s people (Revelation 18:24). So, the end of Babylon shows us that God will free His people and save them.

When Babylon is destroyed, the prayer of God’s peo- ple in the 5th lock, or seal, finally is answered. They cry out, “ ‘How long will it be . . . before You will punish those [people] on the earth for killing [because they killed] us?’ ” (Revelation 6:10, NLV). Their cry is a symbol for the cries of all people from Abel to the end of time who suffered and were hurt because of sin. God will finally give His people peace and punish the people who hurt them or killed them (Psalm 79:5; Habakkuk 1:2; Daniel 12:6, 7). The book of Revelation shows us that God will end evil and suffering.

It is now time for Jesus to be our King. Revelation’s last chapters show us the end of Babylon, Satan, and all evil. We also see that God will make this earth new and bring His kingdom to this earth forever.