---
title:  The Lamb’S Wedding Feast
date:   24/03/2019
---

_In the book of Revelation, the Lamb’s “bride” is a word picture for the New Jerusalem._

`Revelation 19:6–9 talk about the Lamb’s wedding (Revelation 19:7) and His wedding feast (Revelation 19:9). Also read John 14:1–3. How does a wedding feast show us that God wants us near Him always, the same as good friends and family?`

Jesus left His home in heaven 2,000 years ago to invite His followers to a wedding supper (Matthew 22). This supper will happen after He marries His bride. In other places in the Bible and the writings of Ellen G. White, a “bride” is a word picture for the church. But the word “bride” has a different meaning in the book of Revelation (read Revelation 21:9). Ellen White explains: “The Holy City is named the New Jerusalem. This New Jerusalem is the ‘bride, the Lamb’s wife.’ . . . The book of Revelation shows us God’s people as guests at the Lamb’s wedding supper. Revelation 19:9. So, if God’s people are His guests, then they cannot also be the bride.”—The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], pages 426, 427, adapted. After Jesus paid the price for our sins at Calvary to show that He was good for His bride, the New Jerusalem (Revelation 21:2), He went back to His Father’s house to get a place ready for His follow- ers (read John 14:2, 3), who were His wedding guests. While they wait for Jesus, the guests get ready for Him to come back to take them to live in His Father’s house.

Revelation 19:8 says Jesus gave His bride clean, white clothes to wear. Clean, white clothes are a word picture for Jesus’ holy life. That shows us something important about the guests who live in the city. It shows us that they obey God’s law. It also shows us that the good things they do come only from God, who lives in them (Revelation 14:12).

While He was on earth, Jesus told a picture story about a wedding feast (Matthew 22:1–14). One of the guests decided to wear his own clothes, not the wedding clothes that the king gave him. When the king saw this man, the king commanded his servants to throw the man out of the room. Revelation 3:18 shows us that God’s people living in the end time need the clothes that He has for them. Jesus tells His people in the end time to “buy” these clothes from Him. That shows us He wants us to give up something to get the clothes. He wants us to give up our trust in our- selves and to trust Him. Our trust in God is the only thing that will save us.


