---
title:  Armageddon Ends
date:   25/03/2019
---

_“The bottom of the cloud is burning fire. Above the cloud, there is a rainbow. This rainbow shows God’s Special Agreement with His people.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war], page 641, adapted._

`Revelation 19:11–16 tell us that Jesus has another name: “Word of God” (Revelation 19:13, ERV). Revelation 19:15 says a “sharp sword came out of” His mouth (ERV). What do these things tell us about the war of Armageddon between Jesus and Satan?`

These verses use word pictures to show us that Jesus will win. Jesus beat Satan in heaven. Jesus beat Satan in the wil- derness. Jesus beat Satan at the cross. And Jesus will beat Satan at the Second Coming.

“Soon a small black cloud appears in the east. It is half the size of a man’s hand. It is the cloud that is around the Savior. Far away, this cloud looks dark. God’s people know that this cloud is Jesus coming back. In silence they watch the cloud while it comes near the earth. The cloud turns from dark to light the nearer it comes to the earth until it is a huge white cloud. The bottom of the cloud is a burning fire. Above the cloud, there is a rainbow. This rainbow shows God’s Special Agreement with His people. Jesus is a brave and strong warrior who never loses a fight. He is no longer a ‘Man of sadness [sorrows]’ [Isaiah 53:3, NKJV] who came to earth to drink the cup filled with shame and suffering. Now He comes as the winner in heaven and on earth. He comes to judge all people: both living and dead. He is the One who is Loyal and True. ‘He is right when he judges and makes war.’ The armies of holy angels that were in heaven (Revelation 19:11, 14) follow Him. The holy angels sing a beau- tiful song. . . . No human words can explain how wonderful Jesus’ coming will be! No human can make a picture in his or her mind of its beauty.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan],page 641, adapted. In 2 Thessalonians 1:8–10, Paul also writes about Jesus’ Second Coming. At that time, all the governments and religious powers on earth that turned against Jesus are destroyed. God’s people will be saved forever.

`Revelation 19:9, 17, 18 talk about two dinners. If you are a guest at the first dinner, you can eat. If you are a guest at the second dinner, you ARE the food! The difference between the two dinners shows us how the war between Jesus and Satan touches everyone on earth. What do the two dinners teach us about why we need to be loyal to Bible truth and the work that God gives us to do in the end time?`


