---
title:  The 1,000 Years In Heaven
date:   26/03/2019
---

_During the 1,000 years, all Satan and his demons can do is think about the awful things that happened because they turned against God._

`Revelation 20:1–3 and Jeremiah 4:23–26 show us what happens during the 1,000 years after Jesus takes His peo­ ple to heaven. What happens on earth at that time? What is John really telling us when he says that Satan is “tied . . . with the chain for 1,000 years” (Revelation 20:2, ERV)?`

The 1,000 years is named the “millennium.” It starts with the Second Coming. At that time, Satan and his evil angels are “tied . . . with the chain.” Spiritual bodies cannot be tied with a real chain, right? So, this chain is a symbol. It shows us that Satan is “tied up” and trapped by the things that happened because of his evil choices. God’s Seven Last Troubles destroy the earth and kill all the evil people living on it. The earth is now the same as it was before God made everything in it (Genesis 1:2). The earth becomes Satan’s prison during the 1,000 years that God’s people are in heaven. There are no more humans on earth for Satan to lead into sin and to harm. So, during that time, Satan and his demons only can think about the awful things that hap- pened because they turned against God.

`Revelation 20:4–6 talk about God’s holy people during the 1,000 years. Where are they?`

During the 1,000 years, God’s people live in the places Jesus made ready for them (read John 14:1–3). They sit on thrones as kings and priests, or holy leaders. They judge the people who lived on the earth. Jesus promised His fol- lowers, “ ‘you who followed me will also sit on 12 thrones. And you will judge the 12 tribes [family groups] of Israel’ ” (Matthew 19:28, ICB). Paul says that the saints will judge the people who lived on the earth (1 Corinthians 6:2, 3).

At this time, God’s people will look at His decisions. All during history, Satan caused humans to not believe that God was fair. During the 1,000 years, God allows His peo- ple to study His records of earth’s history. They will find answers to all their questions about why some people were not saved. They will have the answers to questions about their own lives. At the end of the 1,000 years, all their ques- tions about God’s fair decisions will be forever answered. God’s people will see that everything that Satan said about God was a lie. Then they will be ready to witness what God will do to Satan and his followers.