---
title:  A New Heaven And A New Earth
date:   27/03/2019
---

_For John, a new earth with no sea means we will not be alone and sad anymore._

After the 1,000 years end, God will destroy sin fully. Then He will make the earth new again. The new earth will be the home of God’s people. What will we see on the new earth? In Revelation 21:1, John saw “a new heaven and a new earth” (ERV). The Bible talks about three heavens: the sky, outer space, and the place where God lives (read 2 Corinthians 12:2). In Revelation 21:1, John means the first heaven: God makes new the sky or the air we breathe. The word “new” in Greek is “kainos” (ki-‘nos). “Kainos” means something made better than it used to be. “Kainos” does not mean God makes something new that was not there before. No. God will clean this planet with fire. Then He will make it the way it used to be before sin, but even more beautiful.

It is interesting that the first thing that John says about the new earth is that there is no sea. When John says “there was no sea” (Revelation 21:1, ERV), he no doubt means the sea around him on Patmos Island. This island was a word picture for what John felt while he lived there as a prisoner. He felt alone and sad. So, for John, a new earth with no sea means we will not be alone and sad anymore.

`Read about the new earth in Revelation 21:2–8 and also in Revelation 7:15–17. How is the new earth the same as the Garden of Eden in Genesis 2?`

God’s people will live free from suffering and death on the earth after God makes the earth new again. God will live with His people forever. God’s living with His people helps us understand that there will be no more suffering or death ever again. Our God living with us on the new earth will turn the earth into a temple.

There will be no more tears, death, sorrow, crying, or pain. All of these things happen because of sin. When God ends sin forever, “all the old ways are gone” (Revelation 21:4, ERV).

Mary and Martha understood that God has the power to make all things new. When their brother, Lazarus, dies, Martha says to Jesus, “ ‘Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died’ ” (John 11:21, ERV). The sisters knew that death had no power when Jesus was around. In the same way, God will live with us on the new earth, and free us from the pain and the suffering we now see and feel in this life. Jesus promises us that hope.