---
title:  THE NEW JERUSALEM 
date:   28/03/2019
---

_The tree of life grows on both sides of the river of life. God’s people use the tree’s leaves for healing (Revelation 22:2)._

`In Revelation 21:9–21, John gives us a picture of the capital city of the new earth: the New Jerusalem. What will we see on the outside of the city?`

The New Jerusalem is named the Lamb’s bride. John uses the word picture of a bride to show us that the city is the Lamb’s wife. The New Jerusalem also is the place where Jesus will live with His people. The city has a very high wall around it. The wall has 12 gates. There are three gates on each of the four walls around the city. That means you can enter the city from any direction. It shows us that in the New Jerusalem anyone can come to God anytime.

The city also is built in the shape of a cube. A cube is a square that has a top, bottom, and sides, the same as a box. All sides of a cube are the same length, width, and height. When all sides of a cube are the same size, the cube is named a perfect cube: “The city was 12,000 stadia [about 1,500 miles] long, 12,000 stadia wide, and 12,000 stadia high” (Revelation 21:16, 17, ERV). What happens when we multiply the 12 edges of this perfect cube with how long each side of the cube is (12,000 stadia)? Then we get: 12 sides x 12,000 stadia = 144,000 stadia. The number 144,000 is a word picture for the 144,000 people in Revelation 14:1–5 who are alive on earth at the Second Coming. We must remember that in the Old Testament tem- ple the Most Holy Room also was a perfect cube: the room was 30 feet long, 30 feet tall, and 30 feet wide (1 Kings 6:20, ICB, NIrV). The cube shape of the New Jerusalem helps us see that the holy city also is meant to be the same as the Most Holy Room on the new earth. So, the New Jerusalem will be the center of our worship of God.

`How does the inside of the New Jerusalem, in Revelation 21:21–22:5, look the same as the Garden of Eden? What does it mean that “nothing that God judges guilty will be there in that city” (Revelation 22:3, NLV)?`

The river of life flows from God’s throne down the middle of the city (Revelation 22:1, 2; Genesis 2:10). The tree of life grows on both sides of the river. God’s people use the tree’s leaves for healing (Revelation 22:2). There is no sickness in the new earth. But God’s people use the leaves to heal the pain that sin caused them in the past.


