---
title:  Additional Though
date:   29/03/2019
---

_Jesus holds the future of this earth and our future in His hands._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: Read Ellen G. White, “Without [not wearing] a wedding garment [clothes],” pages 307–319; “Desolation [ruin] of [on] the Earth,” pages 653–661; “The Controversy [war between God and Satan] Ended,” pages 662–678 in The Great Controversy.

The book of Revelation ends with the same promise that it started with: the promise of Jesus’ Second Coming and His kingdom that lasts forever. Jesus’ Second Coming is the most important part of the book.

Jesus is coming soon. We continue to wait for Him to come back. While we wait, we must have a clear under- standing of the messages in the book of Revelation. We can get this understanding by reading the book again and again until this earth’s history ends. The messages in the book of Revelation help us remember some important things while we wait: (1) We must keep our eyes on Jesus, who is our only hope. (2) Jesus is the answer to everything our hearts wish for in life. And (3) Jesus holds the future of this earth and our own future in His hands.

The book of Revelation helps us remember something else important that we must do before the end of this earth’s history can happen. God gave us the job of telling everyone on earth the message that He is coming back soon. We must not wait until that time and do nothing now. We must share God’s special message for this time. “The Spirit and the bride say, ‘Come!’ ” (Revelation 22:17, ERV). We must join the Spirit and the Bride in sharing God’s invi- tation with other people. The Bible names this invitation the Good News about Jesus. We must announce this Good News to all the people on the earth.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Think about the 1,000 years and the judgment that happens after the 1,000 years are over. God gives the saved 1,000 years to get all their questions answered before He punishes the people who turned away from Him. What does that tell us about God’s love for us and His mercy?`

`2. Revelation 1:3 promises blessing to the people who listen to, read, follow, and obey the special warnings and messages in the book of Revelation. What have you learned from this book that you need to follow and obey?`