---
title:  The Lord Is King
date:   13/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 8; Psalm 100; Psalm 97; Psalm 75; Psalm 94:14; Galatians 3:26-29; Psalm 19:7.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The Lord is King. The Lord wears majesty [royal beauty] and strength like [the same as] clothes. He is ready [strong], so the whole world [the earth] is safe [will continue for as long as the Lord plans]. It [the earth] will not be shaken [will not end until God says so]” (Psalm 93:1, ERV).

The book of Psalms teaches us that the Lord is King of the whole earth. The Lord made everything. He keeps everything going, too. As our King, the Lord is fair and holy. His laws are good. His laws give life to everyone who obeys them. The Lord is also a fair Judge. He protects life on this earth. He rewards the people who obey His law and punishes the ones who disobey Him. The Lord decides when He will punish and when He will reward. He will reward and punish when He is ready, in His own time and not ours.

God’s promise with Israel is why He keeps this earth safe. His promise shows us His saving plan. As part of His promise, God adopted Israel as His people above all other people groups on the earth. The Lord keeps His promise to His people. He continues to care for us even when, at times, we sin against Him.

Because the Lord is King, we can trust Him to keep us safe on this earth. The poets who wrote the Book of Psalms want us to understand this Bible truth. When we do, we can serve God, as the poets did, with our whole heart.