---
title:  The Lord Made Us
date:   14/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 8 and Psalm 100. What do these two psalms, or poems, teach us about God and His people?`

The Bible teaches us that God made everything. The beauty of the skies shows us that our God is very powerful (Psalm 19:1-4; Psalm 97:6). God’s name is the most wonderful Name in the whole earth (Psalm 8:1, 9)! The Lord has been alive forever (Psalm 93:2). The Lord will continue to live forever, too (Psalm 102:25-27). He is more powerful than the “gods” of other nations or people groups. “The ‘gods’ of those nations are only statues that some human made from gold and silver” (Psalm 115:4, ERV), nothing more. These statues “have hands, but cannot feel” (Psalm 115:7, ERV). But “the deep places of the earth are in His [God’s] hand. . . . And His hands made the dry land” (Psalm 95:4, 5, NLV).

Several psalms, or poems, taught Israel that God controls nature. The other nations worshiped nature as a god. Psalm 29, Psalm 93, and Psalm 104 tell us that the Lord is the King over the whole earth. The Lord is more powerful than anyone or any other god. Not all statues are made from stone, wood, or gold. Some people worship false ideas the same as gods. These people trust in self, and not God. This false idea is the same as bowing down to a statue. Psalm 100:3 tells us God is the only One we should worship because He made us.

Everything God made shows us His love. Everything in the skies and earth owes its life to God. God keeps everything alive and going (Psalm 95:7; Psalm 147:4-9). God also chose Israel to be His people and His sheep (Psalm 100:3). These two ideas show us that God wants to be close to us in His heart. Only the Lord can bless us and give us success. So, the Lord is the only One worthy of our worship and trust. In the Book of Psalms, the poets tell every living thing on earth to praise God and be joyful. Yes, this earth is not perfect because of sin. But we see God’s wonderful love in everything He made. That’s why the Book of Psalms tells us we should worship God.

`“But why is man important to you? Why do you take care of human beings?” (Psalm 8:4, ICB). What does this verse teach you about God’s love? The Bible says that God “counts the stars and names each one” (Psalm 147:4, ICB). How much more do you think God cares for you than the stars?`