---
title:  The Lord Is King
date:   15/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The idea that God made everything is connected closely to the teaching that God is King. Psalm 93:1, Psalm 96:10, Psalm 97:1, and Psalm 99:1 announce: “The Lord is King” (ERV). We see this idea in the whole book of Psalms.

The Lord has honor, royal beauty, and strength (Psalm 93:1; Psalm 104:1). “Clouds and darkness are all around Him” (Psalm 97:2, NLV). The Lord also wears “light like [the same as] a robe [a coat]” (Psalm 104:2, ERV). These word pictures teach us that the Lord is very powerful. They also teach us that the Lord’s strength and royal beauty are beyond anything we can imagine in our minds.

`Read Psalm 97. What does Psalm 97:2, 10 tell us about the Lord as King? How big is the Lord’s kingdom? (Read Psalm 97:1, 5, 9 for the answer.)`

The Lord is King over the whole earth (Psalm 47:6-9). As King, the Lord shows us mercy. He is fair and holy. He makes the earth safe. He does what is right for His people (Psalm 98:3; Psalm 99:4). He is our Savior (Psalm 98:2) and our Judge (Psalm 96:10). The things that God made show us His kingdom (Psalm 96:5). God’s kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. No other kingdom is more powerful or as wonderful (Psalm 45:6; Psalm 93:1, 2; Psalm 103:19). God’s kingdom joins everyone in heaven and on earth in praise to God (Psalm 103:20-22; Psalm 148). The Book of Psalms shows us that humans everywhere will announce that the Lord is King (Psalm 96:10; Psalm 97:1; Psalm 99:1; Psalm 145:11-13).

But not all people say the Lord is King now. Evil people refuse to honor God as King. They make fun of God and hurt His people (Psalm 14:1; Psalm 74:3-22). Worse, many evil people enjoy much success. God is very patient with them. The poets who wrote the Book of Psalms are troubled when they see that God is patient with evil people. But the poets trust in God’s strength and in His holy work as Judge (Psalm 68:21; Psalm 73:17-20). In the same way, God’s people today trust in Jesus’ saving work for them (Matthew 12:26-28). They wait with joy for Him to come as King at the Second Coming (1 Corinthians 15:20-28).

`“Hate evil, you who love the Lord” (Psalm 97:10, ERV). Why should our love for God cause us to hate evil? How is our love for God connected to our hating evil?`