---
title:  God Is The Judge
date:   16/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 75. This psalm shows us that evil people like to brag. Why does God warn them not to brag?`

The Lord is the All-powerful King. He is also the Giver of the Law (Psalm 99:7) and a Judge (Psalm 98:9; Psalm 97:2). The Lord will judge and destroy the evil ones who attack His kingdom (Psalm 75:8-10; Psalm 96:13).

In Psalm 75, several word pictures show us that God will destroy evil people. In Psalm 75:8, we see a cup with red wine. This cup shows us that God is very angry because of sin and suffering (Jeremiah 25:15; Revelation 14:10). In Psalm 75:10, God says He will destroy evil people, but He will honor His people who love and obey Him. God chooses the time (Psalm 75:2) when He will judge everyone. The Bible teaches us that His work as Judge will happen at the end of time (Psalm 96:13; 1 Corinthians 15:23-26).

Part of God’s work as Judge includes looking into people’s hearts. Read Psalm 14:2. This verse helps us remember Genesis 6:5, 8. Both sets of verses show us that God will look at people’s lives. He will save as many people as He can. He will do this work before He comes again to reward His children and punish evil people.

How will God do this special work as Judge?

First, God saves His people from the evil ones who are trying to hurt them (Psalm 97:10; Psalm 146:9). God gives everlasting life to His followers who have no pride in their hearts (Psalm 149:4). Second, evil people will be destroyed forever (Psalm 97:3). Some poets in the Book of Psalms talk about how human weapons are useless against the Judge from heaven (Psalm 76:3-6). The Lord is a forgiving God. At the same time, He punishes the sins of the people (Psalm 99:8). Both evil people and holy people must explain to God the reasons for their behavior in this life.

God’s work as Judge starts with His people. Next, God judges everyone else on earth (Deuteronomy 32:36; 1 Peter 4:17). One poet in the Book of Psalms asks God to judge him. At the same time, the poet depends on God’s holy life and mercy to protect him (Psalm 7:8-11; Psalm 139:23, 24).

`The Book of Psalms invites us to feel joyful that God is our Judge (Psalm 67:4; Psalm 96:10-13; Psalm 98:4-9). Why is God’s work as Judge good news for everyone?`