---
title:  Remembering God’s Promise
date:   17/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`In Daniel 7:9, 10, we read about the time when God will judge all people, both the dead and the living. Why can God’s people have peace with God during this time? Read Psalm 94:14 and Psalm 105:7-10 for the answer.`

God’s people can trust in God to save them because the Lord “lives in Jerusalem. His home is on Mount Zion” (Psalm 76:1, 2, ICB). So, God is with His people. God also gives His people His everlasting promise (Psalm 94:14; Psalm 105:8-10). God’s people are very precious to Him. God works to keep His people safe in Him. He forgives their sins (Psalm 103:3). God teaches and blesses His people. He makes them strong (Psalm 25:8-11; Psalm 29:11; Psalm 105:24). God judges His people and accepts them. God helps them to become holy. He shows His people that He cares (Psalm 94:8-15).

In Psalm 105, we read about Israel’s history. In everything that happened, good or bad, God was there. He kept His promise to His people. God led Joseph to Egypt. God used Joseph to save his family and other people from the terrible food shortage (Psalm 105:16-24). The Lord chose Moses to lead His people out of Egypt. God did many miracles to save His people at that time (Psalm 105:25-38).

The Lord gave His people the Promised Land (Psalm 105:11, 44). God protected His people (Psalm 105:12-15). God made His people grow large in number (Psalm 105:24). He saved His people from their enemies (Psalm 105:37, 38). God gave His people what they needed each day to live (Psalm 105:39-41). The Lord controls everything that happens to His people. The poets who wrote the Book of Psalms wanted God’s people to always remember this Bible truth.

When God remembers His promise, He does more than think about it. He takes action. He helps His people (Genesis 8:1; Psalm 98:3; Psalm 105:42-44). How do God’s people remember Him? They honor Him.

God commands His people to obey His laws (Psalm 78:5-7; Psalm 105:45). God also wants Israel to tell other people about Him. The Lord wants everyone to join Israel in enjoying the blessings of His promise (Psalm 105:1, 2). Then God can protect them, too (Psalm 89:28-34).

`Why are the promises that God made to Israel also for us? What does Jesus give us that helps us answer the question? Hint: read Galatians 3:26-29.`