---
title:  The Lord’s Teachings Are Perfect
date:   18/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 19:7; Psalm 93:5; Psalm 119:165; Psalm 1:2, 6; Psalm 18:30; and Psalm 25:10. What same message do we read in all of these verses?`

The Lord is the One who made us. He is our King and our Judge. He controls the earth. These Bible truths help us to trust in His laws and teachings. The Lord’s laws teach His people how to worship Him and live for Him (Exodus 32:15). The Lord’s laws and teachings “do not change” (Psalm 93:5, NIrV). God’s kingdom continues forever. He made this earth and keeps it going (Psalm 93:1, 2). So, we always can depend on God and His laws.

God tells us that we can trust His promises and His commands. God also commands His people to trust in Him and obey His laws.

At the same time, we live on an earth filled with sin. Sometimes, human laws and human judges are not fair. The poets who wrote the Book of Psalms use a special word picture to show that human laws are not always fair. The word picture they use is an earthquake or a shaking (Psalm 18:7; Isaiah 24:18-21). God’s law teaches His people how to live so that they will not be afraid or lost when He judges them. God’s people obey His law. So, nothing will “shake” or destroy their faith in God during that time (Psalm 112:1, 6, 7). Psalm 119 says, “Those [people] who love your law enjoy great [much] peace. Nothing can make them trip and fall” into sin (Psalm 119:165, NIrV). God protects His people and leads them all their lives (Psalm 1:2, 3, 6).

God’s Word, the Bible, is the same as a lamp. It shows His people the road that leads to God. The Bible also protects God’s people from the traps of their enemies (Psalm 119:105, 110). Does the peace we get from loving God’s law (Psalm 119:165) mean that we won’t have troubles? Of course not! What Psalm 119 means is that we get peace from letting God and His love live in our hearts.

`How does keeping God’s laws and following His teachings make your life better? Did you suffer when you broke God’s laws and didn’t follow His teachings?`