---
title:  Additional thought
date:   19/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Psalm 86:5, 15; Ellen G. White, “God’s Love for Man,” pages 9-15, in _Steps to Christ_. We know that God is love. How does this Bible truth help us better understand who God is and how He helps His people? What does the Book of Psalms teach us?

As we continue to study the Book of Psalms, we must think about what the Psalms teach us about God’s love, mercy, and His plan to save us and make the earth new. “The cross teaches us about God and His love. The more we study this topic, the more we will understand God’s mercy, care, and forgiveness. We will see that God and His laws are fair. We also will see the proof of His love. God’s love doesn’t have limits. His love for us is bigger than a mother’s love for her child even if the child refuses to obey her.”—Ellen G. White, _Steps to Christ_, page 15, adapted. In the Book of Psalms, when God judges people for refusing to obey Him, what do these people do? They come back to the Lord and continue to pray to Him for help to save them! Why? Because they know that God’s anger is only for a short time. But His mercy is everlasting (Psalm 103:8).

**Discussion Questions**:

`The Book of Psalms teaches us that God is the King. God is in control of everything that happens on this earth. At the same time, why do we need to understand that a worldwide war between God and Satan is happening all around us? How does this Bible truth help us understand why there is so much sin and suffering on this earth?`

`The Bible also teaches us that God made us. How does this teaching help us understand who we are and how we must take care of everything God made on this earth? What happens when people don’t follow this teaching? Read Psalm 106:35-42 for the answer.`

`What was wrong with the false gods that the people worshiped in Bible times (Psalm 115:4-8)? What about modern false gods? Why are they also a danger to our relationship with the Lord?`

`The Bible tells us that God’s work as Judge will start with His people. So, how should God’s people live? How does God judge His people?`