---
title:  Caring for Others
date:  08/07/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 2, 7:9–14**

**Caring for Others**

Leviticus 2 reveals another value God holds dear: caring for others. To paraphrase M. L. Andreasen, a well-known theologian, the burnt offering declares all we are to be the Lord’s while the grain offering (also called the meat or meal offering) declares all we have to be His (The Sanctuary Service [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Pub. Assn., 1937], p. 108). Interestingly, the two sacrifices were offered together. Both were to be used for His glory and for the good of others. Although the grain offering did not require any blood, it represented another kind of sacrifice: giving up something of value for others’ benefit.

A small portion of the grain offering was burned on the altar, but the remainder went to the priests for food (Lev. 2:1–3). Interestingly, it could be given to them in different forms: baked into loaves, cooked, or grilled. Notice that in verses 2 and 9 God considered this sacrificial care offering to be “a sweet aroma to the Lord.” Caring for others is a major theme in Leviticus. Another example is found in Leviticus 23, where landowners were commanded not to overharvest their grain and to instead leave some for the “poor” and “foreigner” to harvest (v. 22).

God wants us to give because He gave to us first (see also John 4:19). All the care we pour into others’ lives should flow from a heart of gratitude for all the care and love we have received from our heavenly Father. Leviticus 19:33, 34 makes this very clear: “And if a stranger dwells with you in your land, you shall not mistreat him. The stranger who dwells among you shall be to you as one born among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you were strangers in the land of Egypt.” Our experience of God’s care should be reciprocated and passed on to others.

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 2 and 7:9–14 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Leviticus 2:11–13. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `