---
title:  Salt and Grain
date:  09/07/2023
---

#### inGest

Leviticus 2:13 adds a fascinating practice to the grain offering: the priest was to always include salt with the offerings (see also Ezek. 43:24). In Matthew 5:13 God’s people are described as salt, and the apostle Paul wrote, “Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one” (Col. 4:6). As Adventists around the world embrace the Great Commission, they must see themselves as conduits of God’s care for others. As salt, they must spread out into all the world, turning people from sin and helping them discover the joy of walking with Jesus.

Caring for others is a wonderful form of praise. It’s an expression of gratitude for all that God has done and is doing in our lives (Heb. 13:15, 16). Praise is angelic! Though praying is a human act, praising is an act of the angels. When we care for others, we are embodying what it means to express gratitude to God. Matthew 25 reminds us that when we give care to the “least of these,” we are in fact giving care directly to God Himself (v. 40). There’s no better offering to bring to God than to care for the “least of these.”

Now notice that the grain offerings were given entirely to God, but they benefited the priests (Lev. 2). Throughout the book of Leviticus, the reader is reminded that it is his or her responsibility to care for the spiritual leaders in the church. This sentiment is repeated in the New Testament (1 Cor. 9:13, 14; 1 Tim. 5:18). By giving to pastors what they and their families need, we are giving to God. The priest received food not only from the grain offering but also from the fellowship, sin, and guilt offerings (Lev. 6:26; 7:6, 14, 31). They even received the hide from the burnt offering, which could be sold or used for clothing (Lev. 1:6; 7:8). In fact, the more the people loved and appreciated God, the more they brought offerings that provided for the practical needs of their spiritual leaders. In the Seventh-day Adventist Church, tithe supports pastors, teachers, and church leaders around the world. Offerings, on the other hand, go directly to local church expenses. Through these two systems of giving, Adventists care for others in an ancient and biblical way.

**Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.**

` `

`What does it mean to care for “the least of these” in this day and age? What does that look like in modern life?`