---
title:  The Bread of Life
date:  10/07/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Imagine for a moment that you are with the 5,000 on the hillside where Jesus is preaching in John 6. Your stomach is growling, and you wonder if you will have the energy necessary to make it home. Then Jesus miraculously takes a little boy’s gift of five loaves and two fish and starts handing out lunch. After you have eaten the food—which, by the way, tastes better than anything you have eaten before or since—Jesus says these powerful words: “I am the bread of life.” Whoever eats Me will live forever (John 6:35). This sounds like cannibalism to the modern mind, but to a Jewish mind educated in Leviticus, Jesus was identifying Himself as the long-anticipated and promised Messiah—the one represented in the grain offering.

Although this offering did not require a blood sacrifice and was therefore not designed to provide atonement for sin, Jesus is still beautifully portrayed in the sacrificial practice. In John 6:33 Jesus describes Himself as “the bread of God.” The grain offering points clearly to Jesus, who sustains us with both physical and spiritual food. When Jesus referred to Himself as “the bread of God,” He was again identifying Himself in the grain offering of Leviticus 2.

In Isaiah 53:5, Jesus is described as having been bruised and beaten for us. To produce the “finest flour” needed for the grain offering, the heads of grain had to be “crushed” and refined through beating and thrashing (Lev. 2:1, 14, NIV). Again, we see that the grain offering pointed clearly to Jesus and His suffering for humanity.

In 1 Corinthians 5:8 we learn that yeast is a symbol of sin. Since Jesus was sinless and perfect in every way, we can understand why the grain offering was to be “without any yeast” (Lev. 2:4, NLT). Interestingly, wine was often included in the grain offerings (Num. 15:10, 24), pointing to how Jesus served His disciples both bread and wine and compared His body and blood to bread and wine at the Last Supper (1 Cor. 11:24, 25). Now, as mentioned earlier, the grain offering did not require any blood. However, accompanied offerings such as the burnt offering did require blood, and the burnt, sin, and fellowship offerings were accompanied by the grain offering (Lev. 9:4; Num. 15:4; 28:3–6; 6:14, 15, 17). Combine this knowledge with the fact that wine, a symbol of Christ’s blood, was included in this offering, and we again see Jesus and His sacrifice on the cross represented by the grain offering in addition to the accompanied offerings.

There are still other components of the grain offering that point to Christ, such as the oil, which represents the Holy Spirit, that was poured out on this offering (Zech. 4:6). Furthermore, the Holy Spirit is called the “Spirit of Christ” (Rom. 8:9) and Matthew 1:20 declares that Christ was “of the Holy Spirit” even before He was born. The phrase “a sweet aroma to the Lord” is yet another messianic pointer, found 17 times in the book of Leviticus. This same phrase is used to describe Jesus in Ephesians 5:2 and Philippians 4:18. The only thing that pleased God about the sacrificial death of the innocent animals was the fact that they pointed to His innocent Son Jesus, who would come as a “sweet aroma” to save guilty and lost humanity.

`What questions emerge after studying Leviticus 2? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Jesus identified Himself as the “bread of God” and the “bread of life” (John 6:33, 35), both of which identified Him in the grain offering. What significance does this have for us today?`

`Jesus is the grain offering, which was not designed to atone for sin. What implications does this have for our relationship with Him?`