---
title:  No Bible, No Breakfast
date:  12/07/2023
---

#### inVite

Some argue that the grain offering proves that a person does not need to be saved by the shed blood of Jesus. In their minds, acts of kindness are enough to save the soul. This concept is more popular than one might think and is the core philosophy of the false religions of the world. Perhaps you have heard of various famous people who led morally corrupt lives only to dramatically change when they got older and perhaps more aware of their mortality—celebrities who began to give liberally to others and even establish organizations of philanthropy.

Although at first glance the grain offering seems to imply that shedding blood is not necessary for salvation and the forgiveness of sins, the truth is that the grain offering was always offered with the other sacrifices that did require the death of a substitute. Also, as previously mentioned, wine, which Jesus said was representative of His blood, was offered along with the grain offering. Without Jesus’ blood, there can be no salvation. The grain offering is therefore another offering that points to Jesus and is motivated by His grace and amazing sacrifice on Calvary. It is not an exaltation of humanity’s attempt to please God, nor is it a means of earning one’s salvation.

There are many today who choose to skip church and therefore miss hearing the Word of God preached in the sermon or shared during the Sabbath School lesson. However, church is where our faith is strengthened and our spiritual stomach is filled. The Bible specifically warns against getting in the habit of skipping church, especially as we get closer to the end of time (Heb. 10:25). When preachers and teachers exalt Jesus, our grain offering and bread, we experience spiritual fullness. Interestingly, when David was being threatened by King Saul, he chose to go to church (1 Sam. 21:1). In the city of Nob, just northeast of Jerusalem, there was a place where 85 priests lived and served. It was there that David and his men ate the 12 loaves of showbread that were placed in the Holy Place of the sanctuary every Sabbath (v. 6).

This bread gave David and his men the strength they needed to endure their journey and escape their enemy. Jesus is our strength as well. He is our showbread, our spiritual grain offering! Perhaps you’ve heard someone say, “I don’t go to church because I don’t get spiritually fed there.” This is usually because they don’t fill up on Jesus every day of the week. Imagine if you ate physical food only once a week. It wouldn’t matter how much food you ate or how good the food was; you would still be hungry. Jesus is our grain offering not only on the Sabbath but every day of the week.

Try enacting this little motto each morning: “No Bible, no breakfast!” Make it your custom to rise early every morning and feed on the Word of God before doing anything else. Take in as much of Christ’s Word as you can handle! You may have to eat quickly sometimes, but other times you should savor and enjoy His presence and power in your life, especially on the Sabbath! There are some who listen to the Bread of Life in the cars during their commute. If you do this, you will experience tremendous growth in your faith.

**Meditate on Leviticus 2 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`What is Jesus saying to you through the main text?`

`What implications does the story of David going to the Holy Place for the showbread have for our spiritual lives? What message should we take away from it?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`