---
title:  Jesus Takes the Curses for You!
date:  01/12/2021
---

#### inVite

This is the most exciting part of the covenant curses! People often shy away from them because they seem so antithetical to Jesus and the gospel, but that is a complete misunderstanding of the covenant. God wants to bless us most of all, and that is why the blessings come first. God wants to save and bless us so much that He is willing to spend lots of time in sending warnings to us when we are going the wrong way. These warnings often take the form of some of the curses, as we see through the books of Judges, Samuel, Kings, and Chronicles. However, the full-blown curses are God’s last resort, and He only turns to them when the nation is totally given over to evil, and the smaller curses do not work anymore. And yet, even when He sends Israel into exile, He saves a remnant. Deuteronomy 30 reminds the people that God will bring them back from the exile, and that this ultimate curse was also meant for redemption. All the prophets point to the inevitability of the exile if the people continue in their sin and rebellion, but also that God always has a plan to bring them back to Him and back to their land.

In addition, when God brings the covenant lawsuit charges (basically a covenant, but showing where the people broke it, and that the curses will come as a result) against the people, God provides a way of escape for any individual who chooses to follow Him instead of the sinful nation. Micah 7 is one example of this, where God will plead the case of any who turn to Him, and longs to redeem them. There is always hope! And ultimately that hope is in Jesus Himself, who takes the curses on Himself, instead of placing them on us who deserve them. Isaiah 1 paints the picture of the sinful nation of Israel, who are feeling the effects of some of the curses already, and warns them that if they do not turn back to God, their path will lead to more curses and ultimately death. But God wants to save them, and make their sins as white as snow (Isa. 1:16–18). And Isaiah 53 shows how God will do this, by voluntarily taking the same curses from Isaiah 1 on Himself as the Suffering Servant and dying for our sins. God wants to redeem us, and is willing to die for us to do so. This should bring our hearts back to gladness and joy as we contemplate this very center of the gospel found in the covenant curses. The final curses in Revelation do not have to come on anyone, when we choose to accept Jesus’ death on the cross for our sins. Hallelujah!

` `