---
title:  “Only Noah Was Left”
date:  15/04/2020
---

“He blotted out every living thing that was upon the face of the ground, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the air; they were blotted out from the earth. Only Noah was left, and those that were with him in the ark” (Gen. 7:23, RSV).

In this text one finds the first mention of the concept of “the remnant” in the Scriptures. The word translated “was left” comes from another word whose root forms are used many times in the Old Testament where the idea of a remnant is conveyed.

“ ‘And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth, and to keep alive for you many survivors’ ” (Gen. 45:7, RSV; emphasis supplied).

“And he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy, every one who has been recorded for life in Jerusalem” (Isa. 4:3, RSV; emphasis supplied).

“In that day the Lord will extend his hand yet a second time to recover the remnant which is left of his people” (Isa. 11:11, RSV; emphasis supplied).

In all these cases, the italicized words are linked to the similar words “was left” found in Genesis 7:23, (RSV).

`Look at Genesis 7:23 and the other examples. How do you understand the concept of a remnant here? What are the surrounding conditions that led to a remnant? How does the covenant fit in with the idea of a remnant?`

At the time of the Flood, the Creator of the world became the Judge of the world. The nearing worldwide judgment raised the question whether all life on earth—even human life—would be destroyed. If not, who would be the survivors? Who would be the remnant?

In this case, it was Noah and his family. Yet Noah’s salvation was linked to God’s covenant with him (Gen. 6:18)—a covenant that originated and was executed by a God of mercy and grace. They survived only because of what God did for them, however important their cooperation was. Whatever Noah’s covenant obligations were, and no matter how faithfully he executed them, his only hope was in God’s mercy.

`Based upon our understanding of last-day events, which includes a time when God will have a remnant (see Rev. 12:17), what parallels can we learn from the story of Noah that will help us prepare to be part of the remnant? In what ways are we making decisions every day that could impact just where we finally stand at that time?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The inhabitants of the Noachian world were destroyed because, after being granted a period of one hundred and twenty years in which to choose between the evil and the good, they deliberately chose to follow their own wicked ways. Because they did not avail themselves of the opportunity God gave them to repent and turn to Him, they were destroyed by the flood.

Once again, before the great destruction of the world by fire, there is granted a period of test and trial. Men are given opportunity to show whether or not they will be loyal to God. Satan is seeking to lead men in positions of trust to seek the regeneration of the world by plans of their own devising. These men desire to be reformers, but they fail because they do not work in Christ’s lines. Can they reform others, when they cannot reform themselves?

As God’s witnesses, we have a message to bear to all the world. The Lord has many children who have never heard the truth for this time. God’s servants must give them the final warning.—_The Upward Look_, p. 88.

Of special value to God’s church on earth today—the keepers of His vineyard—are the messages of counsel and admonition given through the prophets who have made plain His eternal purpose in behalf of mankind. In the teachings of the prophets, His love for the lost race and His plan for their salvation are clearly revealed. The story of Israel’s call, of their successes and failures, of their restoration to divine favor, of their rejection of the Master of the vineyard, and of the carrying out of the plan of the ages by a goodly remnant to whom are to be fulfilled all the covenant promises—this has been the theme of God’s messengers to His church throughout the centuries that have passed. . . .

Let Israel hope in God. The Master of the vineyard is even now gathering from among men of all nations and peoples the precious fruits for which He has long been waiting. Soon He will come unto His own; and in that glad day His eternal purpose for the house of Israel will finally be fulfilled.—_Prophets and Kings_, p. 22.

Look at the cross of Calvary. It is a standing pledge of the boundless love, the measureless mercy, of the heavenly Father. O that all might repent and do their first works. When the churches do this, they will love God supremely and their neighbors as themselves. . . . The people of God will . . . abide in Christ, the love of Jesus will be revealed, and one Spirit will animate all hearts, regenerating and renewing all in the image of Christ, fashioning all hearts alike. As living branches of the True Vine, all will be united to Christ, the living head. Christ will abide in every heart, guiding, comforting, sanctifying, and presenting to the world the unity of the followers of Jesus, thus bearing testimony that the heavenly credentials are supplied to the remnant church. In the oneness of Christ’s church it will be proved that God sent His only-begotten Son into the world. —_Selected Messages_, book 1, p. 385.