---
title:  A Most Treasured Possession
date:   25/04/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Psalm 119

Think back to when you received your first Bible. Perhaps a Christian relative gave it to you when you were a child. Or perhaps you purchased it yourself as an adult. However long you’ve had your Bible, consider the value that you place on this book. Is it one of your most precious, treasured possessions? Or do you take for granted that you have the living Word of God at your very fingertips? Do you struggle to be consistent in reading it? Perhaps you’ve wondered where to start or how to read this book to grow closer to God.

Martin Luther said, “For a number of years I have now annually read through the Bible twice. If the Bible were a large, mighty tree and all its words were little branches, I have tapped at all the branches, eager to know what was there and what it had to offer.”<sup>1</sup> Whether you experience a thriving daily Bible study time or your Bible remains unopened on the bookshelf or in your device, the reality is that we can all develop stronger Bible study habits.

It’s not always easy for busy people to develop a routine of regular, unrushed time in the Bible. Do you ever set your alarm a little earlier than usual in order to wake and read your Bible? Or do you sometimes struggle to drag yourself out of bed and then look at the clock and think, _I have fifteen minutes before I need to begin the day. I’d better hurry!_ Have you ever gone through the motions of having a brief prayer or skimming a chapter before you rushed into the day, only to find your conscience appeased but your heart unsatisfied with the result? The busyness of life has a way of squeezing our time alone with God until it loses its power.

Ellen White put it this way: “There is but little benefit derived from a hasty reading of the Scriptures. One may read the whole Bible and yet fail to see its beauty or comprehend its deep and hidden meaning.”<sup>2</sup> While there are indeed blessings that come from reading the Bible—like drinking from a fire hydrant (lots and fast)—it’s possible to read the Bible through and yet miss so much. God gave us His inspired, precious Word so that we would come to know more about Him—and, in the process, more about ourselves, too. When we take time to see the beautiful, indescribable character of God and the ways He has interacted with humanity throughout history, we can only love Him more. The record of His interactions is right there in our hands, but we must find time, and take time, to know God through reading His Word (Acts 17:11). Consider the following suggestions:

**Ask God to place a desire in your heart for Him.** Claim the promises in Jeremiah 29:13 and Psalm 37:4. Invite Him to wake you up earlier than usual or to free up some time in your day to spend with Him.

**Surrender your time to God.** Yes, you’re busy, and there are so many urgent things to do. But time with God is invaluable. Go to a quiet place by yourself and read Psalm 46:10. Read the words or sing a song such as the hymn “I Surrender All.” Think about the areas of your life that may not be surrendered and offer them to God.

**Spend time with God even when you may not feel like it.** Just as it takes a conscious choice and an action plan to be healthy (e.g., exercising, eating well, getting sufficient sleep), it takes a conscious choice to maintain a close relationship with God. Remember that new habits take at least twenty-one days to form, and we can never succeed without the Holy Spirit’s help.

This week we’ll explore more practical ways to improve our study of God’s Word.

### inScribe

`Write out Psalm 119:97–104 from the translation of your choice. What can we learn from these verses about God’s Word and those who receive God’s Word?`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Martin Luther, What Luther Says: An Anthology, vol. 1, comp. Ewald M. Plass (Concordia Publishing House, 1959), 83.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ (1892), 90.