---
title: '’Tis So Sweet'
date: 27/04/2026
---

### inGest

Think about your favorite dessert. Is it good for your health? Perhaps you use honey as a sweetener, or you may even use Manuka honey for its purported medicinal benefits. If you’ve ever tried honeycomb, you’ll know how sweet the flavor is and soft the texture is as it melts on your tongue. In Psalm 119:103, 104, the Bible describes itself as honey, a metaphor for delight: “How sweet are Your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth! Through Your precepts I get understanding.” Yes, God’s words are indeed sweet to our souls and distinct from anything the world offers us. Unlike many desserts, the sweetness of God’s Word is healing for our souls and life-changing for our characters.

Again and again, Psalm 119 invites us to take delight in God’s words (Ps. 119:16, 24, 35, 47, 70, 77, 92, 174). This is not a forced response but the genuine experience of all who say, “My heart stands in awe of Your word. I rejoice at Your word as one who finds great treasure” (Ps. 119:161, 162). When we recognize that God’s Word contains the greatest treasure in all the world, we make reading it a priority, we search it diligently, and we study how to better understand it.

As we grow more knowledgeable in God’s Word, instead of becoming complacent or satisfied, we want more. “My eyes are awake through the night watches, that I may meditate on Your word” (Ps. 119:148). This kind of meditation on God’s Word is not something that can be quickly accomplished in a few seconds or minutes. This kind of immersion requires focused time and attention. In today’s busy world, this means turning off the noise, putting the phone away, disengaging from social media, finding a quiet place, and listening to God’s voice without distractions. For Jesus, this meant withdrawing to a solitary place long before sunrise, while the crowds were still asleep (Mark 1:35).

Is there a place you can go each morning to be with God? Perhaps you can find a chair by a window, a quiet spot outside, or even the kitchen table—somewhere you can come daily to sit at the feet of Jesus to learn from God’s Word. Sitting at Christ’s feet is the best place to be (Luke 10:39–42). By going to a specific place to spend time with God, you’ll be more likely to return there each day. Don’t become discouraged when you miss a day here or there, because emergencies arise and you may not always be able to spend a lot of time with God. But try not to let too many days, weeks, or months pass by without spending time with God. Remember that having an abiding relationship with the Father is a daily decision—one that you can restart today if you choose to.

**Questions to explore:**

`In the past week, how much time have you spent in prayer and Bible reading? What does your answer tell you about changes you might have to make in your priorities?`