---
title:  Deep Bible Study
date:   27/04/2026
---

### inTerpret

While we don’t have to be scholars to study the Bible, let’s explore ways anyone can engage deeply with God’s Word.

**Pray:** It’s impossible to overstate the importance of prayer as bookends to (and bookmarks throughout) your Bible study time. When we come to read the Bible, we are not alone. The Holy Spirit is available to be our guide. Ellen G. White commented on this: “The Bible should never be studied without prayer. The Holy Spirit alone can cause us to feel the importance of those things easy to be understood, or prevent us from wresting [distorting] truths difficult of comprehension.”<sup>1</sup> In other words, the Holy Spirit helps us understand the significance of the parts of the Bible we can easily understand and helps us discover the meaning of those parts that are less clear.

**Read and Write:** It could be said that the main difference between merely reading the Bible and studying it comes down to one key act: writing. Writing helps us slow our thoughts down, reflect on God’s Word, and work through it at a pace where observation, interpretation, application, and conviction can occur. It also helps our initial scattered ideas work themselves out—it takes them from our heads to our pens and then into our hearts for the day. We’re also more likely to remember something we’ve written down. If you’re not able to write, try reading the Bible aloud (or listening to it as you read along), followed by your thoughts as a prayer to God.

**Share:** Tell someone what you’ve learned. “My tongue shall speak of Your word” (Ps. 119:172). This will solidify it in your mind and encourage someone else.

Select a short book of the Bible to begin with (such as Jonah, Mark, Philippians, or 1 John), and slowly work your way through it. Here’s a simple approach you can apply to a single verse, a passage, or an entire chapter:

1. Pray that the Holy Spirit will guide your mind and soften your heart as you read.
2. Choose a Bible verse or passage.
3. In a journal, write the entire passage or portions of the passage that stand out as you read.
4. Prayerfully read the passage again and underline the key ideas.
5. Write down what the underlined ideas tell you.
6. Pray about these ideas and ponder in prayer how they impact your relationship with God.
7. Consider with whom you might share what you’ve learned.

These are simple steps you can share with anyone who wants help with personal Bible study. Practiced consistently, you can develop strong Bible study skills and make your time in God’s Word dynamic.

`In what ways have you found the promise in Psalm 119:105 to be true for you?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Psalm 119. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy (1911), 599, 600.