---
title:  A Double Blessing
date:   29/04/2026
---

### inVite

There are many ways we can study our Bibles, such as the verse-by-verse method, a chapter study, a theme study, a word study, or a book study. We can study with a concordance, reputable commentary, or Bible dictionary, or we can read the Bible alongside the Conflict of the Ages series by Ellen White for additional insight. We can go for a walk in nature and listen to the Bible or meet with a friend or small group to study together. In the same way that we keep our friendships alive with variety and new adventures, we should keep our daily appointments with God fresh and vibrant by using different methods as we study. There is always more to learn!

Something that will help keep our Bible study time vibrant is sharing with others what we’ve discovered. When we explain what we’ve learned, the summarizing, synthesizing process consolidates our thoughts. This helps us retain knowledge. The double blessing is that when we share and discuss with others, the spiritual conversation often challenges and strengthens both participants. It’s often when we share with or teach others that the deepest learning occurs in our own minds.

We will also come to see that what we study each day is not only God’s message for us but also a message for others. Isaiah promises that our time alone with God will have a far-reaching impact on others. God will give us words to speak to others. “The Lord God has given Me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary. He awakens Me morning by morning, He awakens My ear to hear as the learned” (Isa. 50:4). Our personal Bible study time not only strengthens us but also enables us to encourage those we meet. It is a double blessing.

Our spiritual lives are a marathon. Ask the Lord to keep you running your race with constancy, keeping your eyes on the goal (Phil. 3:14). Don’t feel discouraged if you’ve gone a bit slack for a while, but do make the necessary changes in your life to strengthen your relationship with God through Bible study and prayer. Prioritize your daily, unrushed time alone with God. As you leave your worship time to go to school or work make room for Christ and His Word to continue abiding in you throughout the day.

**Questions to consider:**

`What are you studying at the moment? With whom could you share what you’re learning?`