---
title: inQuire
date: 02/05/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Immersed in God’s Word:**

1. What are the benefits of studying God’s Word, law, commandments, testimonies, precepts, and judgments? Ps. 119:97–104
2. How much do God’s people delight in His Word? Ps. 119:103
3. What does it look like to meditate on God’s law and His Word? Ps. 119:97, 148

`Personal reflection: What are the things that make it difficult for you to have regular, unrushed Bible study time, and how can you overcome these challenges?`

**Seeking God through His Word:**

1. What’s the importance of God’s Word and of seeking God with our whole hearts? Ps. 119:9–11
2. What does God send to help those who are seeking Him? Isa. 55:6–11
3. How does God invite us to seek Him personally? Ps. 27:8

`Personal reflection: What have been your most impactful Bible study experiences? They could be with a group or during your own personal Bible study time.`

**Sharing God’s Word:**

1. What’s the natural result of studying God’s Word? Ps. 119:171, 172
2. How does God prepare us to share His Word? Isa. 50:4
3. Besides sharing the things you study, what other practical tips can enrich your Bible study? See this week’s inTerpret.

`Personal reflection: Based on your own experiences, what tools or techniques have helped make your Bible study time more meaningful?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Personal Bible study is at the heart of having a vibrant and enduring relationship with God.
- In a similar way to keeping any friendship alive, we should look for ways to keep our devotional time dynamic.
- Sharing the things we learn helps us better comprehend and remember what we study.