---
title:  God’s Provision
date:   21/06/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Isaiah 6

**God’s Provision**

Have you had life experiences where God’s provision is undeniable? I saw God work mightily when my wife and I wanted to purchase a home. The realtor had shown us several places, but none of them seemed just right. We saw one house online that excited us, but our realtor refused to take us to see it. She explained that it was a bank-owned house that had been on the market for years because the bank wouldn’t accept any offers. We kept bugging her until she finally gave in and took us to see the house. The years had not been kind to the property. The trees and lawn were overgrown, and animals had gotten inside—the house was a wreck. In spite of that, we felt like it was the right house for us.

We told our realtor we were people of faith. If God wanted us to have that house, it would be ours, and no bank could stop it. After convincing our realtor, we proceeded to make the bank an offer. To everyone’s surprise, the bank accepted it in less than a week. At the closing meeting with the realtor, title company representative, and several other people, I led a prayer of thanksgiving for the miracle God had performed. I then gave each of them some Christian literature to show my appreciation for what God had done.

After I finished, one executive exclaimed, “Well, this is a first. I’ve never been to a closing like this before.” When we see God move, how can we not speak for Him? As we close our study this quarter, we will hear God’s call to rise from our altars of worship and embrace His mission to the lost.

### inScribe

Write out Isaiah 6:1–8 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 8. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `