---
title:  A Turning Point
date:   22/06/2025
---

### inGest

The prophet Isaiah served as God’s messenger to the southern kingdom of Judah. Scholars believe Isaiah’s tenure as a prophet lasted close to sixty years. Isaiah is one of the preeminent Old Testament prophets because of the wide historical and prophetic sweep of his book and the beauty of his writing. The first verse of the book introduces his ministry as spanning the reigns of four kings of Judah—Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah. The prophet’s ministry began when King Uzziah died (6:1), which occurred around 740 B.C. and signaled a turning point in the nation’s direction. At that same time, the Assyrians were developing a fearsome military presence that would one day sweep the northern kingdom of Israel into captivity (2 Kings 17:6).

Isaiah 6 begins with Isaiah at the temple in Jerusalem, no doubt worshiping God. The experience left him nearly speechless. God appeared in His heavenly throne room, “high and lifted up,” with the train of His robe filling the temple (v. 1). Seraphim punctuated the scene, exchanging praises as if trying to outdo each other. “Holy is the LORD” they sang, “The whole earth is full of His glory” (v. 3).

The foundations began to shake, and smoke filled the temple. The scene was so overwhelming that Isaiah cried out, “Woe is me, for I am undone! Because I am a man of unclean lips” (v. 5). In an act of grace and mercy, God dispatched one of the seraphim to touch his lips, remove his iniquity, and purge his sin (v. 7). What an amazing God we serve! Isaiah’s response to God’s grace was a heart ready to do whatever God wanted. When God asked for someone to go on His mission, Isaiah responded, “Here am I! Send me” (v. 8).

Isaiah learned more about the mission in verses 9 and 10. God would send messages to the people, but they would continue to do what they had always done—not listen. They would see God’s movements, but they would not follow. In short, Isaiah was called to deliver a message of warning that would not be heeded. However, the prophet’s message was not all bad news. In verse 13, God promised that even though destruction was ahead, a tenth of the nation would be preserved. A remnant would remain. That was exciting news, for from this remnant in Judah, Jesus, the Messiah, would come. What a wonderful God we serve!

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from Isaiah 6. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How would you feel if you saw God’s glory like Isaiah did?`

`Why would Isaiah go on God’s mission if he knew ahead of time that there would be limited results?`