---
title:  Called to Go
date:   23/06/2025
---

### inTerpret

A few years ago, I visited a country where my father had conducted evangelistic meetings. After I finished presenting one of my messages, a group of people met me at the front of the auditorium and introduced themselves. “You won’t remember us,” said one woman, “but your dad baptized us more than forty years ago.” My heart was deeply moved as they shared their love for my father. Forty years prior, they had attended a worship service where God had called them. Their whole life had been dramatically changed because of responding to God’s call four decades before.

Isaiah 6 is a powerful story of God’s call to His servant while he was at the temple worshiping. Our personal devotional altar is no substitute for collective worship at church. We should not neglect to worship with our brothers and sisters, especially as we see the time of Jesus’ return approaching (Heb. 10:25). God appeared to Isaiah in the public place of worship. When Isaiah saw God, he instantly recognized his unworthiness and shrank back (Isa. 6:5). Ellen White commented that “Isaiah’s [humility] was genuine. As the contrast between humanity and the divine character was made plain to him, he felt altogether inefficient and unworthy” (Gospel Workers [1915], 22).

Isaiah’s response to the vision from God revealed the heart of someone who had a relationship with God. His heart was tender. He understood his nothingness. He knew he was unworthy of such a holy God, and he was prepared to do whatever God asked. Another critical point to grasp is that Isaiah was not moved simply by what he saw with his eyes. He saw fire, smoke, and the angels praising God continually. God’s majestic robe filled the temple. All this amazed the humble prophet, but it was God’s holiness that truly awed him.

Perhaps the most beautiful part of this wonderful scene is when the seraphim took a fiery coal from the altar and touched the sinful prophet’s lips. In that moment, God equipped Isaiah for the call. The prophet’s iniquity was removed, and his sins were purged (Isa. 6:7). God didn’t ask who would go until He had cleaned Isaiah up. Isaiah’s answer is the spontaneous response of one who has experienced God’s amazing grace. People for whom God has done amazing things ought to be ready to say, “Here am I! Send me” (v. 8). “Back to the Altar” is a call to return to personal worship and devotion to God, but rest assured that the call back is also a call to mission. God calls us to ministry when we worship Him.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How did Isaiah’s encounter with God make him feel about himself?`