---
title:  The Blessing of His Presence
date:   25/06/2025
---

### inVite

Think again of the worship experience Isaiah had as he witnessed God in all His holiness. What picture of worship do you see? Is there anything that stands out?

Isaiah 6 has several powerful takeaways that we can apply to help give us amazing views of God. The first thing we ought to notice is the way the angels in God’s presence worshiped Him. Here we glimpse a picture of what true worship is. If this worship was not what God wanted, Isaiah would not have witnessed it. The angels’ worship was focused on God. They were not obsessed with themselves in any way. They focused entirely on God, and their praise extolled His character. When we worship God, we are often tempted to focus on our needs and desires. While this isn’t wrong—God Himself encourages us to cast all our cares on Him (1 Pet. 5:7)—God’s goodness, character, and mighty acts in our lives should be the focus of our time with Him.

The second thing we notice is that the angels’ worship was simple. No complex words––perhaps because no words can fully capture God’s majesty. No elaborate display––God’s magnificence took center stage. We know that countless angels worship and praise God in heaven (Luke 2:13, 14), but in Isaiah’s vision, there were only two. Perhaps God was giving Isaiah (and us) an example to follow in our worship of Him. Worship need not be elaborate to please Him. If we come with honest hearts, understanding our nothingness and His greatness, if we come with hearts filled with thanksgiving, God accepts our worship as surely as He accepts the angelic choirs singing His praises.

Finally, we should expect God to do things for us at our worship altars. This quarter, we learned that altars are places of sacrifice, consecration, commitment, and service. When we daily meet God at our devotional altars, wherever they may be, God will do mighty things in and through us. Isaiah was cleansed and forgiven in God’s presence (Isa. 6:7). The prophet found his life’s purpose and career in God’s presence. The servant of God was given the message he was called to share while in God’s presence. Oh, how much we miss when we fail to meet God at the altar!

Do you know your purpose? Want to know if that job is right for you? Are you uncertain about the future? I urge you to get back to your altar. The answers you seek are waiting there, but even better, God is waiting for you there.

### Journal

`Meditate on Isaiah 6 again and look for Jesus.`

`What is the focus of true worship?`

`What does Isaiah teach us about our need to get back to the altar?`

`Prayer Response:`