---
title:  A Divine Appointment
date:   26/06/2025
---

### inSight

“Isaiah had a message from the God of heaven to give to the backsliding people of Israel, and he gave them this message. He knew what elements he had to deal with; he knew the stubbornness and perversity of the heart, and how hard it would be to make any impression upon them. As he stood in the portico of the temple, the Lord revealed himself to him. The vail of the temple was withdrawn, the door lifted, and he had a view of the holy of holies within the vail. He saw the God of Israel before the throne high and lifted up, and the train of his glory filled the temple. As Isaiah senses his own sinfulness, he cries out, ‘I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips.’ And there was seen the hand that took the live coal from off the altar, and touched his lips, and bade him be clean. Then he was ready to go with the message, and he said, ‘Send me;’ for he knew that the Spirit of God would be with the message.

“To those who are engaged in the work of God, in the conversion of souls, it would seem as though it was impossible to reach the obdurate heart. This is how Isaiah felt, but when he saw that there was a God above the cherubim, and that they were ready to work with God, he was ready to carry the message. We have a great work to accomplish here in our world.

“The Saviour of the world chose his disciples from among the humble fishermen, and thus the foundation of the Christian church was laid by these humble men connecting themselves with Jesus Christ. As they entered the school of Christ they became learners in that school. They profited by the lessons that Jesus was continually giving them to fit them for the great trials and the important work that would come to them after the burial and resurrection of the Redeemer. Their hopes, although for a time seemingly blighted, still existed; and after the resurrection of Jesus these hopes revived. Now these unlearned men could stand before princes and kings and councils of the learned, and give to them the reasons of their faith which even their adversaries could not gainsay or resist. They were astonished at the boldness and fluency of their speech, and took knowledge of them, saying, These men have been with Jesus and learned of him; for they talk like him. These men were able to stand bravely for the truth. They stood before the council, and declared, This is the Prince of life, whom wicked hands have taken and have crucified, and who is risen from the dead as he told us he would rise before his crucifixion” (Ellen G. White, The Review and Herald, May 3, 1887).

### Journal

`After this week’s study, what can you apply to your walk with God right now?`

`How can the message of Isaiah 6 encourage us when we feel like our mission is impossible?`

`Review your memory verse. How did it apply to your life this week?`