---
title: Midnight Visit
date: 12/10/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 3**

**Midnight Visit**

In this lesson, we continue exploring Jesus’ opening ministry. John’s narration of Christ’s life adds richness to our understanding. John recorded events from the beginning of Jesus’ ministry that are new to readers of the other three Gospels. These stories give us context and insights into Jesus’ life. John revealed Jesus to be “the Son of God” (John 20:31) by describing signs Jesus performed as well as discourses He was involved in. The conversation with Nicodemus (3:1–21) and the disciples’ discussion with John the Baptist (vv. 22–36) are found only in this Gospel.

As we read of Jesus’ personal interaction with Nicodemus, keep in mind that chapter divisions were not added to the text until well after their composition. The story of this nighttime meeting directly follows the statements that Jesus knew what was in people’s hearts (2:22–25). The conversation with Nicodemus is an explication of the idea that Jesus did not entrust Himself to men because He knew what they were like. John made this link by saying that Jesus “knew what was in man” (v. 25) and then described Nicodemus as a “man of the Pharisees” (3:1). The latter expression is unusual, suggesting that John chose it specifically to connect these passages.

We read that Nicodemus came to Jesus at night (3:2). John used light to describe God’s presence (1:4–5); darkness and night to describe God’s absence (3:19–21; 8:12; 13:30). Nicodemus represents those in darkness who are open to the light. Naturally, coming at night would also provide cover so as not to be seen by the crowds or fellow Pharisees. This would afford an opportunity for a long, uninterrupted conversation. Here, John layered several meanings, as he often did in his Gospel.

Nicodemus’ experience emphasizes that we cannot simply categorize people as either for or against Jesus. Some declare their allegiance to Christ but ultimately reject Him (6:60). Others appear ambivalent but ultimately become His followers (19:39, 40), even in the most extreme situations.

Read through the entire chapter several times to get the contour of the discussions clear in your mind.

#### inScribe

As you read through John 3 again, choose either vv. 1–9 or 10–21 as a section to focus on. Rewrite the section you choose in your own words, creating your own paraphrase. Or create an outline or a mind map of the verses.

` `