---
title: The Teacher of Israel
date: 13/10/2024
---

#### inGest

John first presented Nicodemus’ background. He was a Pharisee and a “ruler of the Jews” (John 3:1). Later, Jesus called him “the teacher of Israel” (v. 10—the Greek uses a definite article). In other words, as a preeminent teacher, he came to Jesus to talk things over teacher to teacher (v. 2). However, Jesus was not inclined to discuss pleasantries. He cut to the central issue: the need to be “born again” (v. 3).

Read this conversation carefully, for John included multiple layers of meaning in his words. He did this intentionally and frequently in his Gospel (4:4–42; 11:11–16, 23–27). This Gospel is not intended to be read in a hasty manner. John had a definite purpose in his choice of words and did not merely employ catchphrases. The central point of Jesus’ response is that to enter or even see the kingdom of God, one must be “born again” (3:3). Other versions translate this as “born from above,” as the word anōthen used here means from above, again, or anew. Which meaning did Nicodemus understand? What was Jesus’ intent? Today, the expression “born again” is commonly used as a term for heart conversion. Jesus used it as a metaphor that attempts to portray an experience beyond anything words can describe.

As Jesus explained that we need to experience a rebirth from above to see and enter His kingdom, He connected it to the heavenly work of the Spirit (see John 1:12, 13). Jesus was not pointing to some future new life in eternity; this new life begins now (3:15, 16). Jesus offered Nicodemus an experience like His own—one in which God would be present in Nicodemus’ life starting right then. John extended Jesus’ words to every reader of his Gospel.

Jesus used the expression “Most assuredly, I say to you” three times (3:3, 5, 11). The final instance marked a change in the conversation where Jesus suddenly started speaking in the plural (“you” in 3:11 is a second-person plural pronoun). Clearly, this conversation was recorded for the benefit of a wider audience beyond Nicodemus. Jesus also did not identify the “we” when He shifted to the first-person plural. The unidentified nature of both groups (“we” and “you”) invites deeper study. Does “we” include John the Baptist and the Old Testament prophets who testified of Christ? Or does it refer to later believers who receive and share this testimony?

As Jesus expanded the audience, Nicodemus faded from the conversation, full of wonder (3:9). This leaves us uncertain as to how much he understood, though we do know that as a Pharisee, he certainly would’ve recognized the illustration of Moses lifting the serpent (vv. 14, 15). Indeed, at Jesus’ death, the “light from that secret interview illumined the cross upon Calvary, and Nicodemus saw in Jesus the world’s Redeemer” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [1898], 177). Only as we contemplate the crucifixion can we understand Jesus’ words about new life. When Jesus laid down His life (John 10:18), He made it possible for us to experience eternal life.

#### Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 3. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How much progress did Jesus make with Nicodemus during this secret conversation?`

`Why was it difficult for Nicodemus to comprehend his own spiritual need?`

`Why is it sometimes difficult for us to comprehend our own spiritual needs?`