---
title: The Gospel’s Source and Function
date: 14/10/2024
---

#### inTerpret

John 3:14–21 concludes Jesus’ conversation with Nicodemus. Notwithstanding red letters in today’s Bibles, it’s unclear where Jesus’ speech ends. Ancient writing contained nothing comparable to quotation marks. Many sense that Jesus’ words end in verse 15 and that verses 16–21 are the apostle John’s meditations on the topic. Others view these verses as a continuation of Jesus’ discourse. Either way, verses 16–21 are rich with meaning.

Verses 14–16 discuss an important theme: how eternal life comes to the believer. Jesus said eternal life results from Him being lifted up, a reference to His crucifixion (cf. John 8:28; 12:32, 33). Therefore, salvation is made possible by Christ’s death. God gave the ultimate gift—His own Son—because of His infinite love for the entire world. God’s love embraces everyone, everywhere. No spiritual elite or national group takes priority. A full view of God’s impartial love transforms the way we see others, who are as loved by God as we are.

The concept of God giving His Son raises an ambiguity. Do these words describe the incarnation or the crucifixion? As is common with John, both views are likely. The popularity of John 3:16 should not diminish its importance. This verse presents one of the clearest expressions of God’s love for a rebellious world. Jesus’ death reveals that salvation is not grudgingly granted by an unwilling God; it’s a manifestation of the deep love that resides within His heart.

Verses 17–21 explore the importance of our response to God’s gift of Jesus. The goal of Jesus coming to earth as God incarnate was eternal life, not condemnation. This reality confronts each of us daily, calling us to make the decision to believe. If we reject Christ, we will not receive eternal life. For John, this equated with already being judged or condemned. The language of judgment needs to be clearly understood. Eternal life and condemnation are two sides of the same coin—both result from our choice. Embracing Christ, we receive light and eternal life. Rejecting Him, we remain trapped in darkness (1:4, 5, 9). As we accept or reject light, we reveal our response to God’s gift of His Son. Thus, judgment results from our choices (8:12; 9:5; 12:46). The world judges itself by its response to the gift of God’s love. With a superficial reading, the Gospel may seem highly judgmental. However, it’s essential to remember John’s meaning: we pass judgment on ourselves. God always desires that we receive eternal life.

What began as a conversation between Christ and Nicodemus ended with a deep discussion about salvation. The passage employs metaphors, irony, and wordplay. John’s stories are rich with theological language, helping us know how to live our lives with God.

#### Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? Which parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Do you need to accept God’s gift of eternal life, whether for the first time or again?`