---
title: The Testimony of John the Baptist
date: 16/10/2024
---

#### inVite

The rest of the chapter discusses John the Baptist’s testimony. The conflict the Baptist experienced was part of Jesus’ motivation for traveling through Samaria to Galilee (John 4:4–6). Chapter 3 ends with John the Baptist’s final witness. The Gospel of John scarcely mentions the Baptist’s imprisonment (3:24; cf. Matt. 14:1–12; Mark 6:14–29; Luke 3:19, 20), likely because the book’s primary purpose is to give the reader an understanding of Jesus and His work. John the Baptist was sent to testify of Christ (John 1:6–8; 3:19–36).

Using the metaphor of a wedding (3:29, 30), the Baptist showed that his ministry was one of preparation. In those days, the “friend of the bridegroom” had many important responsibilities, including guest preparation, wedding arrangements, and bringing the bride to the groom. The whole time, the friend’s focus was solely on the bridegroom’s happiness. John the Baptist viewed his work as being similar—he was preparing for the Bridegroom (see Isa. 61:1–10; Jer. 2:2; Hosea 1, 2). As Jesus’ ministry grew, John’s diminished (John 3:30).This discourse marks the last time the Baptist is mentioned in this Gospel book.

John the Baptist’s words echo Jesus’ conversation with Nicodemus. Once again, we find that Jesus “comes from above” (3:31; see also v. 3). The Baptist understood that Jesus spoke from what He had seen (3:32; cf. v. 11). He reiterated the idea that in receiving Christ, one moves from death to life. To resist Jesus is to choose death (3:36; cf. 17–21). John’s witness confirms what the reader has already learned about who Jesus is, where He came from, and what His purpose is.

John the Baptist was motivated by his calling to prepare the way for the Bridegroom. His testimony convicts many and bears fruit. John’s disciples recognized that the purpose of his ministry was to testify to Christ. (The verb in 3:26 is in a perfect form, indicating an ongoing testimony and focusing the reader’s attention on John’s calling.) John the Baptist’s life challenges us to consider the ongoing influence that our words and life leave.

John 3:3–21 and 31–36 reveal an important aspect of salvation that is often ignored. God gave us everything in the gift of His Son, and He desires everyone to be saved. Through Christ’s sacrifice, everyone can be saved. However, He cannot force humanity to make a free choice for eternal life. God cannot save everyone, because not everyone chooses to accept His gift. May we each choose to accept Christ in our lives.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 3 again and look for where Jesus is.

`In what ways should we live by the motto, “He must increase, but I must decrease” (v. 30)?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`