---
title:  The Lord And The Agreement With Abraham 
date:  18/04/2021
---

**He said to Abram, ‘I am the LORD who led you from Ur of Babylonia. I did this so that I could give you this land. You will own this land’ ” (Genesis 15:7, ERV).**

What do you think of when you read these names: Albert Einstein? Martin Luther King Jr.? Ghandi? Or Dorcas? Each name makes you think of the beliefs, personality, or success of that person, right?

During Bible times, people who lived in the Near East felt that names were very important. “The Hebrew people always felt that the name of a person showed them something special about his or her personality. Or they believed that names showed them what the parents were thinking or feeling at the time they named their child. Sometimes names showed something important about what was happening in the land during the time the child was born.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 1, page 523, adapted.

When God first makes an agreement with Abram, God tells Abram that His name is YAHWEH. YAHWEH is written as LORD, in upper case letters, in the ERV (read Genesis 15:7). So, really, Genesis 15:7 says, “I am YAHWEH who led you from Ur of Babylonia . . . .”

The name YAHWEH is written 6,828 times in the Old Testament. The name itself is a mystery. It may come from the Hebrew verb “hayah,” which means “to be.” This information tells us that the name YAHWEH may mean “the Everlasting One,” or “the One Who Lives Always and Forever.” These names show us that God always has been alive. He also is Someone we can trust. He is the living God. All life starts with Him. Compare YAHWEH to the gods of the people in Bible times. These gods did not have any life until people invented them first.

In Exodus 3:14, God Himself explains what the name YAHWEH means: “ ‘I AM WHO I AM’ ” (ERV). This meaning shows us that God always has been alive. His name also shows us that God controls the past, now, and the future.

YAHWEH is the personal name of God too. YAHWEH is the One who brings Abram out of Ur. This name connects the Lord to the agreement God makes with Abram in Genesis 12:1–3. God wants Abram to know His personal name. The name of God shows us who God is in His heart: God is love. This special knowledge about God will teach us to trust His promises (Psalm 9:10; Psalm 91:14).