---
title:  God All-Powerful 
date:  19/04/2021
---

**When Abram was 99 years old, the LORD appeared [showed Himself] to him. He said, ‘I am God All-Powerful. Obey me and live the right way’” (Genesis 17:1, ERV).**

The Lord showed Himself to Abraham several times before (Genesis 12:1, 7; Genesis 13:14; Genesis 15:1, 7, 18). Now, in Genesis 17:1, the Lord again shows Himself to Abram. The Lord announces his name as “God All-Powerful.” This name is used only in the book of Genesis and in the book of Job. The name “God All-Powerful” has two parts: “El Shaddai.” “El” is the basic name for God that people used at the time. We are not really sure what the name “Shaddai” means exactly. But we believe that it means “All-Powerful.” (Compare Isaiah 13:6 and Joel 1:15.) The name “El-Shaddi” shows us an important idea about God. He is powerful and mighty, while humans are weak.

`Read Genesis 17:1–6. In these verses, the Lord announces to Abram His might and power. Why do you think the Lord wants Abram to know about His might and power at this time? What is the Lord saying that shows Abram his need to trust in that might and power?`

Genesis 17:1–6 can also be written this way: “The Lord shows Himself to Abram. The Lord says, “I am ‘El-Shaddai [the All-Powerful God]. Obey Me. Live the right way. If you do, I will make an agreement with you. I will give you many children. . . . You shall be the father of many people groups. . . . I will give you much success.” The name ‘El Shaddai also is written in Genesis 28:3. In this verse, Isaac says that ‘El Shaddai will bless Jacob and give him many children and much success.

In other places in Genesis, ‘El Shaddai makes promises to people that are much the same as the promise He makes to Abram. Read Genesis 35:11; Genesis 43:14; and Genesis 49:25. In these verses, we see that God wants to give good gifts to the ones who obey Him and search for Him in faith.

`Some people say that names are not important. What if the name of the Lord was “The Weak God”? How much hope does that give you? None, right? How does the name ‘El-Shaddai give us comfort?`