---
title:  From Abram To Abraham 
date:  20/04/2021
---

Names of people in the Near East during Bible times have deep meaning. If someone today names his or her child Mary or Suzy, the meaning of the name often is not very important. But for people living in the Near East during Bible times, human names have deep spiritual meaning. A name from that time may be a short sentence that shows thankfulness or the wish of a parent for something. Here are some examples: Daniel means “God is judge.” Joel means “Yahweh is God.” Nathan means “Gift of God.”

So, names are very important in Bible times. So why are names in the Bible changed? They are changed to show a big change in the life of someone.

**Look up the following verses. What is happening in these verses? Why are the names changed?**

`1. Genesis 32:28`

`2. Genesis 41:45`

`3. Daniel 1:7`

Let us say that someone is named “stupid” or “ugly” all the time by other people. Sooner or later, those names may change the way a person thinks about himself or herself. A name change can also change what a person will think, feel, do.

Now that we know this information, we will better understand why God wants to change the name of Abram to Abraham. Abram means “Father is praised.” Abraham means “Father of many people.” Now let us look at a promise in the agreement between God and Abraham. God says, “ ‘I will give you many descendants [future children]. New nations [countries] and kings will come from you’ ” (Genesis 17:6, ERV). This promise makes sense now that we know that the name Abraham means “Father of many people.” Maybe the name change is part of the plan of God to help Abraham have faith in the special agreement with God. God makes this agreement with Abraham when Abraham in 99 years old. His wife, Sarai, is an old woman who has no children. So, God changes the name of Abram to Abraham to help Abraham believe in the promises of God.