---
title:  Parts Of The Agreement 
date:  21/04/2021
---

Genesis 12:1, 2 shows us the first two parts of the agreement between God and Abram. The agreement has three parts: (1) God comes to Abram. (2) God gives Abram an order. (3) God makes Abram a promise. Part 1 is the choice. This part shows us that God is very kind to choose Abram to enter into this special agreement with Him. Part 2 is the command. This part shows us the test of trust that God gives to Abram. Abram will need to show total trust in God (Hebrew 11:8). Part 3 is the promise (Genesis 12:1–3, 7). God makes a promise to the future children of Abraham. At the same time, this promise includes the whole human family (Genesis 12:3; Galatians 3:6–9).

**Part 2 of the special agreement of God with Abram is shown in Genesis 15:7–18. Which of these verses shows us the same three things that happen in Part 1? Write the verses on the lines below that show each part.**

`God comes to man. Verses`

`God commands man to obey Him. Verses`

`The promise of God. Verses`

In Part 2 of the agreement, the Lord comes to Abram and passes between pieces of three animals. First, the three animals are killed. Then they are cut in half. The two halves of each animal are placed next to each other with a space between them. The birds are killed. But they are not cut in half. When people made agreements in Bible times, they walked between cut-up pieces of meat. Their walking between the meat is a word picture. It shows us that the people will do everything they promise.

`What happens during Part 3 of the agreement between God and Abraham? (For the answer, read Genesis 17:1–14.)`

The meaning of the name Abraham shows us that God wants to save all people. That includes both Jews and non-Jews. The true children of Abraham are people who have the faith of Abraham. They trust in the blood of Jesus to save them. (Read Galatians 3:7, 29.) As far back as Abraham, God wanted to save as many people as possible. God has not changed. He wants to do the same thing today.