---
title:  The Special Things That Abraham Must Do 
date:  22/04/2021
---

**I have chosen him. He must direct [command] his children to live in the way that pleases me. And he must direct the members of his family after him to do the same [thing]. So he must guide [lead] all of them in doing what is right [good] and fair. Then I, the LORD, will do for Abraham what I have promised him” (Genesis 18:19, NIrV).**

As we have seen so far, the special agreement of God is always an agreement of grace. As you know, grace is the gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power of sin that God gives us. We cannot earn this gift. We can accept it only by faith. So this agreement shows us that God does for us what we cannot do for ourselves. God saves us from sin.

God chooses Abraham to help Him announce His saving plan and His mercy to the people on the earth. God will keep His promise to Abraham. But Abraham must do what is right and obey God by faith. If Abraham does not obey, then God cannot use Abraham to do special work on the earth.

Genesis 18:19 shows us how the mercy of God and His law are connected. The verse starts with “I have chosen him.” This sentence shows us the mercy of God. Then the verse shows us that Abraham is someone who will obey the Lord. Abraham will teach His family to obey God too. So, in this verse, we see faith and works in a close connection. (Read James 2:17.)

`Do you see the last part of Genesis 18:19? What is this verse saying about the obedience of Abraham? Our obedience does not save us. But why is obedience important? What does this verse show us in answer to this question? Can the agreement between God and Abraham be kept with no obedience? Explain.`

Abraham cannot enjoy the blessings of the agreement if he does not do the things that God asks him to do. God promises to do His part too. Abraham must do his part. He must show God love, faith, and obedience. If Abraham obeys, then God can keep His part of the agreement.

What happens if a human beaks the agreement with God? We must understand that the agreement itself does not change. But when someone breaks the agreement, God cannot keep His promises. The special connection of love and trust between God and humans is broken too.