---
title:  Further Thought
date:  23/04/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Call of Abraham,” pages 125–131, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “Jew and Gentile,” pages 188–200, in The Acts of the Apostles.

The rainbow shows the special agreement of God with Noah. Read Genesis 17:10 to learn about the sign that shows the agreement of God with Abraham. What is it? The answer is circumcision. Circumcision is cutting off the tip of the male sex parts. Circumcision “shows: (1) that the children of Abraham are different from the non-Jews (Ephesians 2:11). Circumcision helps the Jews remember their agreement with God (Genesis 17:11). (3) Circumcision helps the people to live in the right way (Deuteronomy 10:16). (4) Circumcision shows us that we are saved by faith alone (Romans 4:11). (5) Circumcision shows us that we must have clean hearts (Romans 2:29). Finally, (6) circumcision shows us baptism (Colossians 2:11, 12).”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 1, pages 322, 323, adapted.

The rainbow will always show us the promise of God not to destroy the earth again with a Flood. This promise will continue until the end of time. Circumcision will not. Paul tells us that Abraham accepted circumcision as a sign of His faith in God to save him (Romans 4:11). As time passed, the meaning of circumcision changed. Later, circumcision had a bad meaning. It showed humans who tried to earn the favor of God. These people believed that their obedience to the law of God saved them. By New Testament times, circumcision no longer had special meaning. A new belief replaced it. It is the belief that our faith in Jesus changes us. Our faith in Jesus causes us to live an obedient life. Read Galatians 5:6; Galatians 6:15; and 1 Corinthians 7:18, 19.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What is the connection between faith and works? Can we have one and not the other? If no, why not?`

`“God gave Abram a test. In the same way, God gives many people a test today too. Maybe they do not hear the voice of God talking to them. But God talks to them from the teachings in the Bible. . . . God has work for them to do. . .  Who is ready to do this work?”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 126, 127, adapted. Talk in class about modern examples of people that God invited to do special work for Him.`

**Summary**: God invites Abraham to have a special friendship with Him. This friendship will show the people on the earth the plan of God to save humans from sin.