#### Hebrews: A Message for the End-times

A young man sees a painting of a girl in his church for the first time. The painting touches his heart deeply. He cannot stop staring at the girl. Why? he wonders. What is so special about the girl in the painting? For a long time, the young man tries to figure out why. At last, the young man understands the reason he cannot stop staring at her: her eyes. The painting shows only the face of the girl. She looks very carefully at something that is not in the painting. But what is she staring at? Why does she look so carefully at it? For a long time after the young man sees the painting, he cannot stop thinking about the eyes of the girl.

Several years later, the young man meets the artist of the painting. The artist is named Arnold Jiménez. Arnold tells the young man the secret of the painting. Arnold painted the eyes of the girl in a special way. Arnold painted her eyes to make people look straight into them. How did the artist do this? If you look closely, you will see that the artist carefully painted in her eyes the object of her attention: Jesus on the cross. 

In the letter to the Hebrews, Paul “paints” for us a picture of Jesus. The picture is so powerful. We cannot stop staring. Paul tells us that Jesus is the King of heaven and earth. Jesus sits on the right side of God in heaven. Angels worship Him: thousands and thousands of angels. There are so many angels no one can count them. All of these angels serve Jesus (Hebrews 1:5–14; Hebrews 12:22–24). Jesus controls everything in heaven and on earth because He died on the cross. His death is a promise about the future: God will destroy the devil forever (Hebrews 2:14–16). Jesus is also our High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader. Jesus never sinned. So, He is perfect and holy. Now He lives forever. He works for us in the temple in heaven (Hebrews 7:26–8:5). Jesus can help us because He gave Himself as a perfect offering for our sins. He needed to make this offering only one time. Jesus died for everyone (Hebrews 10:1–14). Jesus also made a new way for us to go to God. This new way to God is named the New Agreement. The New Agreement between God and His people will continue forever (Hebrews 8:6–13).

What touches our hearts the most about the picture of Jesus in Hebrews? More than what Jesus did, we are touched by who Jesus is. Jesus was born from a woman. We were, too. The devil tried to get Jesus to sin. As sinners, we know how that feels. People made fun of Jesus and laughed at Him. We have been laughed at and made fun of, too. Now Jesus sits on the throne in heaven. When we make a picture in our minds of Jesus on the throne, our eyes cannot stop staring at Him. He looks so much the way we do because He became one of us. Jesus is our Brother. Now Jesus, our Brother, is in heaven. He stands between God and sinners. Jesus loves us so much. Because of His love, Jesus goes to God to get help for us. 

In Jesus, we see the story about the love of God for sinners and His plan to save us. This story has three parts: (1) Jesus is our Savior. (2) Jesus is our King. (3) Jesus is the new Adam. Are you worn and tired? Have you suffered insults and hard times because of your faith (Hebrews 10:32–34)? Let Jesus lead you. Jesus is the Leader of your faith. Jesus will save you and make you perfect. He will not stop helping you. Look to Him. He suffered as you have from evil men (Hebrews 12:1–4). He understands suffering better than anyone. Jesus also knows how to bring us safely home. He traveled the way to heaven before us. Jesus is the new Joshua. Follow Him to the Promised Land (Hebrews 3, 4, 11, 12). Jesus also is the new Adam. As the new Adam, Jesus did everything God needed Him to do. Because of Jesus, God can show us mercy (Hebrews 2:5–10; Hebrews 12:22–28).

The picture of Jesus in Hebrews is our topic this quarter. Jesus shows us the love of God. Jesus shows us that this love is very deep. When we see this love, we cannot stop staring at Jesus, our Brother in heaven. 

_Félix H. Cortez-Valles is a professor at Andrews University. He teaches New Testament studies. He is married to Alma Gloria Alvarez. They have two children. Hadid, their son, is a pastor in New Jersey. Alma, their daughter, is a student at Andrews University._