---
title: "Are You Ready For Life's Big Changes"
date: 13/04/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
1 Corinthians 10:1–13; 1 Corinthians 13:4–8; 1 Samuel 1:27; Psalm 71; 1 Kings 2:1–4.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “God’s holiness leads the way in front of him. It prepares [gets things ready] the way for his coming” (Psalm 85:13, NIrV).

**LIFE IS FULL OF CHANGES**. Things change all the time. The only thing that does not change is change itself. Change is part of what it means to be alive. Science teaches us that change is a basic part of life.

Many changes happen with no warning. We are going along in life, and then, boom! Everything changes in a second. We never even saw the change coming.

But sometimes we do see change coming. God in His mercy gives us warnings that things in life will be different very soon. When this happens, we must start to get ready as much as we can. Many changes are big: getting married, having children, growing old, and dying.

Most of us have a lot of other people in our lives. So, big changes can make life very different for our families too. Also, not every family member will think or feel the same way about the changes that happen. 

This week, we will look at some of the big changes that are part of life. Sooner or later, these changes will happen to most of us. We will look at the important ways these things can change our lives.