src/en/2019-02-er/03/02.md, before:

---
title: "Are You Ready For Life's Many Changes"
date: 14/04/2019
---

The Bible does not hide the truth about life. It shows us that life can be hard at times. Yes, life can be very sad and full of pain. Really, if you think about it, the sad parts of the Bible fill most of the Book. Only the first few pages in the Bible and the last few at the end show us times free from pain. All the pages in between show us that humans behave in awful ways. Paul was right when he said: “Everyone has sinned. No one measures up to [can match] God’s glory [goodness; holy life]” (Romans 3:23, NIrV).  

`Read 1 Corinthians 10:1–13. What do these verses warn us about? What promises do these verses give us too?`

In many ways, our behavior shows the choices we make when change happens. Change will always come. As Christians, we must meet life’s changes with faith. We must trust in God during times of change. We show our faith by obeying God. We must trust Him even when that is not easy to do. 

“What do people on this earth need to see more than anything else? They need to see an example of people who will do what is right every time. These people will never do wrong. Not even if someone offers them a lot of money. People who will not do wrong are true and honest. They are not afraid to show other people that sin is evil. The lives of honest people always point us in the right direction. Honest people will always do what is right even when no one else will.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 57, adapted. 

**Read about the people in the verses below. What mistakes did the people make? What can we learn from them?**

`Acts 5:1–10`

`Genesis 16:1, 2, 5, 6`

`Matthew 20:20–22`

Change can make us feel afraid. It can lead us to do the wrong thing. So, we must be ready. We must put on God’s battle suit to help us stay strong (Ephesians 6:11). Then we can fight against the devil’s sneaky tricks and evil plans.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/03/02.md, after:

---
title: "Are You Ready For Life's Many Changes"
date: 14/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible does not hide the truth about life. It shows us that life can be hard at times. Yes, life can be very sad and full of pain. Really, if you think about it, the sad parts of the Bible fill most of the Book. Only the first few pages in the Bible and the last few at the end show us times free from pain. All the pages in between show us that humans behave in awful ways. Paul was right when he said: “Everyone has sinned. No one measures up to [can match] God’s glory [goodness; holy life]” (Romans 3:23, NIrV).  

`Read 1 Corinthians 10:1–13. What do these verses warn us about? What promises do these verses give us too?`

In many ways, our behavior shows the choices we make when change happens. Change will always come. As Christians, we must meet life’s changes with faith. We must trust in God during times of change. We show our faith by obeying God. We must trust Him even when that is not easy to do. 

“What do people on this earth need to see more than anything else? They need to see an example of people who will do what is right every time. These people will never do wrong. Not even if someone offers them a lot of money. People who will not do wrong are true and honest. They are not afraid to show other people that sin is evil. The lives of honest people always point us in the right direction. Honest people will always do what is right even when no one else will.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 57, adapted. 

**Read about the people in the verses below. What mistakes did the people make? What can we learn from them?**

`Acts 5:1–10`

`Genesis 16:1, 2, 5, 6`

`Matthew 20:20–22`

Change can make us feel afraid. It can lead us to do the wrong thing. So, we must be ready. We must put on God’s battle suit to help us stay strong (Ephesians 6:11). Then we can fight against the devil’s sneaky tricks and evil plans.
