src/en/2019-02-er/03/03.md, before:

---
title: 'Are You Ready For Marriage'
date: 15/04/2019
---

One of the biggest changes in life is marriage. Of course, not everyone gets married. Jesus never did. Many other people in the Bible also did not get married. But most people do marry. So, the Bible has some important things to say about marriage.

Did you know that marriage is one of the first things the Bible talks about? That is because marriage is very important to God. God told Adam and Eve about His special plan for marriage: “That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is joined to his wife. In this way two people become one” (Genesis 2:24, ERV). God’s plan for marriage is so important that it gets said again in three more places in the Bible: Matthew 19:5; Mark 10:7; and Ephesians 5:31. When you are married, your husband or wife should be the most important person in your life. You should love your husband or wife even more than you love your parents. Marriage shows the love between Jesus and His church. The church is Jesus’ bride (Ephesians 5:32).

Before you build a house, you must figure out how much money it will cost (Luke 14:28–30). So, how much more should you think about what it costs to start a family? We build houses with brick, wood, metal, wires, and glass. But we make a home with things we cannot see and touch.

**What things do we need to start a good marriage? Why do we need these same things to be a success in life too?**

`1 Corinthians 13:4–8`

`Galatians 5:22, 23`

How do you get ready for marriage? You must first start with yourself. At the same time, you need to look carefully at your future husband or wife. Will he or she make a good life partner? Is he or she a hard worker (Proverbs 24:30–34)? Does he or she get mad easily? (Proverbs 22:24). Do you both share the same beliefs? Do your family and friends like this person? (Proverbs 11:14). What things control your choice? Is it your faith? Or is it feelings? (Proverbs 3:5, 6). The answers to these questions can help you have a happy marriage.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/03/03.md, after:

---
title: 'Are You Ready For Marriage'
date: 15/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

One of the biggest changes in life is marriage. Of course, not everyone gets married. Jesus never did. Many other people in the Bible also did not get married. But most people do marry. So, the Bible has some important things to say about marriage.

Did you know that marriage is one of the first things the Bible talks about? That is because marriage is very important to God. God told Adam and Eve about His special plan for marriage: “That is why a man leaves his father and mother and is joined to his wife. In this way two people become one” (Genesis 2:24, ERV). God’s plan for marriage is so important that it gets said again in three more places in the Bible: Matthew 19:5; Mark 10:7; and Ephesians 5:31. When you are married, your husband or wife should be the most important person in your life. You should love your husband or wife even more than you love your parents. Marriage shows the love between Jesus and His church. The church is Jesus’ bride (Ephesians 5:32).

Before you build a house, you must figure out how much money it will cost (Luke 14:28–30). So, how much more should you think about what it costs to start a family? We build houses with brick, wood, metal, wires, and glass. But we make a home with things we cannot see and touch.

**What things do we need to start a good marriage? Why do we need these same things to be a success in life too?**

`1 Corinthians 13:4–8`

`Galatians 5:22, 23`

How do you get ready for marriage? You must first start with yourself. At the same time, you need to look carefully at your future husband or wife. Will he or she make a good life partner? Is he or she a hard worker (Proverbs 24:30–34)? Does he or she get mad easily? (Proverbs 22:24). Do you both share the same beliefs? Do your family and friends like this person? (Proverbs 11:14). What things control your choice? Is it your faith? Or is it feelings? (Proverbs 3:5, 6). The answers to these questions can help you have a happy marriage.
