---
title:  "ARE YOU READY TO BE A PARENT? (1 Samuel 1:27)"
date:   16/04/2019
---



Few things can change our lives as much as a baby. Nothing in the family will ever be the same again!

“Children who are born to people when they [the parents] are young are like [the same as] arrows in the hands of a soldier. Blessed [happy] are those [people] who have many children. They won’t [will not] be put to shame when they go up against their enemies in court” (Psalm 127:4, 5, NIrV).

As parents, we do not get children with a book that teaches us how to take care of them. Even parents who have a lot of experience with kids do not always know what to do. That is why it is important to get ready to become good parents.

**The Bible tells us stories about babies. What impor-tant rules can you learn from these stories about becoming good parents?**

`1 Samuel 1:27`

`Judges 13:7`

`Luke 1:6, 13–17, 46–55, 76–79`

The parents in these Bible stories have a big job! Three of these babies will be future leaders and special messengers, or prophets, for God’s people. One child will grow up to get Israel ready for their Savior. One of the babies is the Savior Himself. But what if our babies do not grow up to be prophets? Parents should do everything they can to get ready to be good parents anyway.

“Even before a child is born, parents should start to get ready. They should do everything they can to help their child fight and win the war against sin.

“But what happens if a mother is selfish, bossy, and mean before her child is born? These same feelings and behavior will be seen in her child. In this way, many children are born wanting to do evil things. They have almost no control over the evil wishes in their hearts.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, page 256, adapted.

`How can we help our children grow up to be better people? What can we do to show our children how much God loves them?`