src/en/2019-02-er/03/05.md, before:

---
title: 'Are You Ready For Old Age'
date: 17/04/2019
---

“Our lifetime is 70 years. If we are strong, we may live to be 80. But the years are full of hard work and pain. They pass quickly [very fast], and then we are gone” (Psalm 90:10, ICB). Moses wrote this psalm. His words show us that time passes very fast. As the years come and go, we see and feel changes in our bodies. Our hair turns gray or falls out. We start to slow down. We may feel pain every day. But maybe we are married and have children. Our children may have babies too. Then we can enjoy our grandchildren at this time. The life we have lived already helps us get ready for the last part of life too. 

`Read Psalm 71. How does this psalm teach us to get ready for old age? What does this psalm also teach us about life?`

An older person wrote Psalm 71. He talks about getting old. But he also is happy. Why? Because he always put his trust in God. The best way to grow old is to put our trust in God when we are young. The writer of Psalm 71 shares three important lessons. These lessons helped him get ready for old age. They can help us too: 

**1. Learn who God is**. Learn to trust in God when you are young (Psalm 71:17). Make God your place of safety (Psalm 71:1, 7). Accept God as your Savior (Psalm 71:2). God is a rock and strong tower (Psalm 71:3). God gives us hope (Psalm 71:5). Tell other people about all the wonderful things God does for you (Psalm 71:16, 17, 19). Trust in God’s strength and power (Psalm 71:18). The writer of Psalm 71 shouts: “O God, who is like [the same as] You?” (Psalm 71:19, NKJV). Pray daily. Study God’s Word. Think about all He does for you. Then your love for Him will grow deeper.

**2. Form good habits**. Eat a healthy diet. Exercise. Drink plenty of water. Get enough sunshine and rest. These things will help you enjoy life longer. Trust in God (Psalm 71:3). Praise Him (Psalm 71:6). Do not give up hope (Psalm 71:14).

**3. Serve God with your whole heart**. Continue to serve God in your old age. Keep praising Him and telling other people that God is wonderful (Psalm 71:15–18)!

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/03/05.md, after:

---
title: 'Are You Ready For Old Age'
date: 17/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Our lifetime is 70 years. If we are strong, we may live to be 80. But the years are full of hard work and pain. They pass quickly [very fast], and then we are gone” (Psalm 90:10, ICB). Moses wrote this psalm. His words show us that time passes very fast. As the years come and go, we see and feel changes in our bodies. Our hair turns gray or falls out. We start to slow down. We may feel pain every day. But maybe we are married and have children. Our children may have babies too. Then we can enjoy our grandchildren at this time. The life we have lived already helps us get ready for the last part of life too. 

`Read Psalm 71. How does this psalm teach us to get ready for old age? What does this psalm also teach us about life?`

An older person wrote Psalm 71. He talks about getting old. But he also is happy. Why? Because he always put his trust in God. The best way to grow old is to put our trust in God when we are young. The writer of Psalm 71 shares three important lessons. These lessons helped him get ready for old age. They can help us too: 

**1. Learn who God is**. Learn to trust in God when you are young (Psalm 71:17). Make God your place of safety (Psalm 71:1, 7). Accept God as your Savior (Psalm 71:2). God is a rock and strong tower (Psalm 71:3). God gives us hope (Psalm 71:5). Tell other people about all the wonderful things God does for you (Psalm 71:16, 17, 19). Trust in God’s strength and power (Psalm 71:18). The writer of Psalm 71 shouts: “O God, who is like [the same as] You?” (Psalm 71:19, NKJV). Pray daily. Study God’s Word. Think about all He does for you. Then your love for Him will grow deeper.

**2. Form good habits**. Eat a healthy diet. Exercise. Drink plenty of water. Get enough sunshine and rest. These things will help you enjoy life longer. Trust in God (Psalm 71:3). Praise Him (Psalm 71:6). Do not give up hope (Psalm 71:14).

**3. Serve God with your whole heart**. Continue to serve God in your old age. Keep praising Him and telling other people that God is wonderful (Psalm 71:15–18)!
