src/en/2019-02-er/03/06.md, before:

---
title: Death
date: 18/04/2019
---

We all hope we will live to see the Second Coming. But if we do not, then we can expect to die. Death is the biggest change of all. Nothing can change a family more than the death of a family member.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:24–26. What do these verses teach us about death?`

Of course, many times death happens with no warning. So, what can we do to be ready when it comes? We must make sure we stay connected to the Lord by faith. We must ask Him to cover us in His holy life every second of our lives (Romans 3:22). But in the end, we really cannot get ready for death if we do not see it coming. 

What can you do if you know you have only a few months to live? We may not know for sure when death will come. But we may know when we are nearing the end of our lives. So, it is very important to get ourselves and our families ready.

`First Kings 2:1–4 shows us some of the last words David spoke to his son Solomon. What lessons do David’s words teach us about getting ourselves ready for death? What can we do to help our families get ready too?`

David tells his son to obey God. Yes, David made many mistakes in his life (read 2 Samuel 11). He did not always follow God. But he learned the hard way that we should put God first at all times. David’s past sins and mistakes made his words to Solomon very powerful. David wanted to warn his son not to do what he did. David’s sins caused him a lot of pain and sadness in life. He paid an awful price for his sins. No doubt David wanted Solomon to learn from his mistakes.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/03/06.md, after:

---
title: Death
date: 18/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We all hope we will live to see the Second Coming. But if we do not, then we can expect to die. Death is the biggest change of all. Nothing can change a family more than the death of a family member.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:24–26. What do these verses teach us about death?`

Of course, many times death happens with no warning. So, what can we do to be ready when it comes? We must make sure we stay connected to the Lord by faith. We must ask Him to cover us in His holy life every second of our lives (Romans 3:22). But in the end, we really cannot get ready for death if we do not see it coming. 

What can you do if you know you have only a few months to live? We may not know for sure when death will come. But we may know when we are nearing the end of our lives. So, it is very important to get ourselves and our families ready.

`First Kings 2:1–4 shows us some of the last words David spoke to his son Solomon. What lessons do David’s words teach us about getting ourselves ready for death? What can we do to help our families get ready too?`

David tells his son to obey God. Yes, David made many mistakes in his life (read 2 Samuel 11). He did not always follow God. But he learned the hard way that we should put God first at all times. David’s past sins and mistakes made his words to Solomon very powerful. David wanted to warn his son not to do what he did. David’s sins caused him a lot of pain and sadness in life. He paid an awful price for his sins. No doubt David wanted Solomon to learn from his mistakes.
