src/en/2019-02-er/03/07.md, before:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 19/04/2019
---

When you read about Israel’s time in the desert, what do you see? Many changes happened in their lives. They made so many mistakes. Even so, God showed His people that He loved them during every big change in their lives. Do you remember what happened before Israel entered the Promised Land? They met another big change. Moses told the people: “ ‘You have seen what the Lord did at Baal Peor. The Lord your God destroyed all your people who followed the false god Baal at that place. But all of you who stayed with the Lord your God are alive today. I taught you the laws and rules that the Lord my God commanded me. I did this so you could obey them in the land you are ready to enter and take for your own. Obey these laws carefully. This will show the people of the other nations that you are wise and sensible [smart]. They will hear about these laws and say, “Truly, the people of this great [wonderful] nation are wise and sensible [smart].” The Lord our God is near when we ask him to help us. No other nation has a god like that! And no other nation is great [wonderful] enough to have laws and rules as good as the teachings I give you today. But you must be careful! Be sure that as long as you live you never forget what you have seen. You must teach these things to your children and grandchildren’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:3–9, ERV). We must remember the things the Lord does for us. What is the best way to remember? We can teach other people about God. We can share with them all the wonderful things God does for us. Look again at Moses’ words. Do you see how important Moses makes the family? Moses told Israel that they must teach their children about God’s laws. We also can see that the sin at Baal Peor was very bad for family life. “God punished Israel for their awful sin at Baal Peor. The people were guilty of sex sins. These sins showed that they did not care about God’s holy law. The women were very bold. They used sex to trap the men of Israel in sin. Sadly, it was not the last time that God’s people sinned against Him in this way.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, page 326, adapted. 
 
**Discussion questions**

`1. Share with the class some things you did to get ready for the big changes in life. How did these things change the lives of your family members? What did you learn that can help other people?`

`2. Think again about David’s sin against Bathsheba. This sin hurt his family very deeply. Later, many awful things happened. How do David’s words to Solomon show us God’s mercy at work in David’s life?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/03/07.md, after:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 19/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When you read about Israel’s time in the desert, what do you see? Many changes happened in their lives. They made so many mistakes. Even so, God showed His people that He loved them during every big change in their lives. Do you remember what happened before Israel entered the Promised Land? They met another big change. Moses told the people: “ ‘You have seen what the Lord did at Baal Peor. The Lord your God destroyed all your people who followed the false god Baal at that place. But all of you who stayed with the Lord your God are alive today. I taught you the laws and rules that the Lord my God commanded me. I did this so you could obey them in the land you are ready to enter and take for your own. Obey these laws carefully. This will show the people of the other nations that you are wise and sensible [smart]. They will hear about these laws and say, “Truly, the people of this great [wonderful] nation are wise and sensible [smart].” The Lord our God is near when we ask him to help us. No other nation has a god like that! And no other nation is great [wonderful] enough to have laws and rules as good as the teachings I give you today. But you must be careful! Be sure that as long as you live you never forget what you have seen. You must teach these things to your children and grandchildren’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:3–9, ERV). We must remember the things the Lord does for us. What is the best way to remember? We can teach other people about God. We can share with them all the wonderful things God does for us. Look again at Moses’ words. Do you see how important Moses makes the family? Moses told Israel that they must teach their children about God’s laws. We also can see that the sin at Baal Peor was very bad for family life. “God punished Israel for their awful sin at Baal Peor. The people were guilty of sex sins. These sins showed that they did not care about God’s holy law. The women were very bold. They used sex to trap the men of Israel in sin. Sadly, it was not the last time that God’s people sinned against Him in this way.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, page 326, adapted. 
 
**Discussion questions**

`1. Share with the class some things you did to get ready for the big changes in life. How did these things change the lives of your family members? What did you learn that can help other people?`

`2. Think again about David’s sin against Bathsheba. This sin hurt his family very deeply. Later, many awful things happened. How do David’s words to Solomon show us God’s mercy at work in David’s life?`
