---
title:  Seeing The God No One Can See
date:  13/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Romans 8:28–39; John 14:1–14; Ephesians 1:18–23; 1 Peter 5:7; Psalm 55:22; Matthew 6:25–33; Isaiah 40:27–31; Isaiah 40:11; Revelation 13:15.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Moses left Egypt because he had faith. He was not afraid of the king’s anger. He continued strong as if he could see the God no one can see” (Hebrews 11:27, ERV).

WHAT IS FAITH? The book of Hebrews best explains the meaning of faith for us: “Now faith is being sure we will get what we hope for. It [faith] is being sure of what we cannot see” (Hebrews 11:1, NLV). How can we be sure about what we don’t see? Paul tells us that Moses shows us how: “He continued strong as if he could see the God no one can see” (Hebrews 11:27, ERV).

God invites all of us to see “the God no one can see.” God wants us to know we can trust Him when times are good, for sure. More than that, God wants us to know we can trust Him when anything goes wrong in life. We need strong faith in Bible truth to do that. So, we must believe in God and His kingdom. We also must believe that our Father is good. We must believe in the power of Jesus’ name. We must believe that Jesus can wake us and our loved ones from the dead. These Bible truths will help us to stand strong when we are suffering and want to doubt everything we believe.