---
title:  Our Father’s Love 
date:  14/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“If God really loves me, He will do ________________ for me!” How many times do we feel this way? We look at our lives and then wonder if God really loves us. We feel that if He really does, then things should be different, right?

Two ideas cause us to doubt that God is good. First, we may have a wish for something that we believe is good. So, the idea that God may want something different for us may seem crazy. Second, we may doubt that God is good because our experience goes against our beliefs. So, if something looks good, feels good, or tastes good, we think it must be good. We get angry with God when we can’t have what we want.

We need faith to help us during these times. Faith helps us when we doubt God and His love.

`Romans 8:28–39 are powerful verses that show God’s love and care for us. What can you find in the verses to help protect your mind against doubting God’s love?`

In Romans 8:32, we see an idea that is very helpful in protecting us from doubt and fear during difficult experiences. “He even [also] let his own Son suffer for us. God gave his Son for all of us. So now with [because of] Jesus, God will surely [for sure] give us all things” (Romans 8:32, ERV). How can we possibly think that God is mean and selfish if He sent Jesus to die for us?

Romans 8:32 helps us see something important about the death of Jesus for us on the cross. We must let the cross change our thinking. The Bible truth about the cross must become stronger than all the doubts that come to us from our difficult experiences and our hard tests.

`How is it possible for God’s love to be more powerful in your mind than your doubts? Spend some time thinking about the Bible truth that God sent Jesus to die for our sins. How does this thought make your faith grow stronger?`