---
title:  In The Name Of Jesus 
date:  15/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“ ‘If you ask me for anything in my name, I will do it’ ” (John 14:14, ERV).

Jesus wasn’t going to be with His followers much longer. He was going to heaven soon. Jesus’ followers started to feel confused and powerless. Jesus had encouraged and supported His followers. Now they were not going to see Jesus face-to-face anymore. So, Jesus gave His followers a surprising promise to comfort them and give them hope.

Read John 14:1–14. In John 14:13, 14, Jesus promises to do for us “anything” that we ask in His name. Because of this promise, we almost always end our prayers with “In Jesus’ name, amen.”

`Why do we say “In Jesus’ name, amen” at the end of our prayers? What do these words mean? Why does Jesus encourage us to pray in this way? What hints do we find in the verses we just read to help us understand the important Bible truth that Jesus talks about?`

When we ask for things “in the name of Jesus,” we can be sure that all heaven will help us. We may not see the angels working all around us. But in the name of Jesus, God sends the angels from His throne of heaven. God sends His angels to answer our prayers.

Have you prayed in the name of Jesus and expected everything to be changed when you said “Amen”? Maybe you expected God to answer your prayer right away or do a miracle. While God can do powerful miracles, sometimes God answers our prayers in quiet ways that we don’t expect or understand right away. Yes, Jesus commanded a storm to stop blowing. That was a powerful miracle, for sure. But sometimes God helps us in ways we don’t expect. Think about how God answered Jesus’ prayers in Gethsemane. Something big may not happen right away when we pray. While we wait, we can trust that God is working for us.

`Read again John 14:1–14. As you read, believe that Jesus talks to you face-to-face. What hope and encouragement do these promises give you? At the same time, ask yourself, “What things in my life block God from keeping His promises to me? What changes must I make?”`