---
title:  Our Hope Of Waking Up From The Dead 
date:  16/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We believe in the resurrection. The resurrection is the time when God will wake up His people from the dead at the Second Coming. The resurrection gives us hope. When we think about Jesus’ life, death, and resurrection, we think about how His death made it possible for God to forgive us and accept us.

At the same time, the Resurrection shows us that God will wake us up from the dead, too. The Resurrection is important for another reason. After Jesus woke up from the dead, He sat down at the right side of His father. The place where Jesus sat shows us that Jesus has control and power. Now think about this idea: the resurrection power that woke Jesus up from the dead is the same power that God gives us today!

`In Ephesians 1:18–23, Paul talks about God’s power. What do these verses teach us about the Resurrection? What hope and promises for yourself do you see in these verses?`

Paul prays that the Ephesians will understand a few things. We can understand these things, too, only with God’s help: (1) God promises to change our lives. He also promises us a future of everlasting life with Jesus. Jesus invites us to have hope in these promises. (2) Paul also wants Christians to understand all the wonderful things that God and His power did, and do, for us.

Paul explains that God’s power is surprising and wonderful. The power that God gives us today is the same power that woke Jesus up out of the ground and back to life. Then this same power put Jesus at the Father’s right side in heaven.

But Paul doesn’t stop there. (3) The Resurrection didn’t only give control over everything to Jesus. The Resurrection also gave Jesus the power to offer His people every possible thing they will ever need forever!

`Do you have things in your life that only Jesus can change? Make a list of these things. When you finish your list, please pray that God’s power will change all these parts of your life. At the same time, what can you do better right now? What choices can you make to allow God’s power to work more fully in your life?`