---
title:  Let God Carry Your Heavy Load Of Worry 
date:  17/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Some people have a funny sign in their homes. The sign says: “Why pray when we can worry?” Sure, this sign makes us laugh. That’s because we know how often we worry and don’t come to God to let Him solve our troubles.

But God wants to help solve our troubles. Sad to say, we carry our problems and worries until the load gets so heavy. Why do we wait until our load is about to crush us with its weight before we come to the Lord for help?

`Read 1 Peter 5:7. Peter uses a quote from Psalm 55:22 in 1 Peter 5:7. What is Peter’s message for us in 1 Peter 5:7? Also read Matthew 6:25–33.`

1 Peter 5:7 is a very simple verse. There is no mystery or secret hidden in it: “Give all your worries to him, because he cares for you” (1 Peter 5:7, ERV). When we give our worries to our Father in heaven, He promises to solve our problems. Jesus tells us the same thing in Matthew 6:25–33. The problem for us is not that giving our worries to God is hard. The problem is we feel that giving our worries to God just seems too easy and too good to be true.

Worry is caused by many different things. Maybe you feel pressure from your job. Or someone tells you that you’re not doing something very well and can do better. Or maybe you feel that no one wants you or loves you. We worry about money and health. Many people also feel they are not good enough for God. Some people believe they are not forgiven.

Whatever our reasons for worry are, we hold on to our problems because we think we can solve them better than anyone else can. But Peter tells us to stop thinking this way. The reason we don’t need to worry is that God cares about us. Does God care enough to stop a divorce from happening or to keep us from losing our jobs? Does God care enough to save us from feeling as if we are useless? The Bible tells us that God cares enough to change any experience in our lives if that is His plan for us!

`What things do you worry about now? Is anything too hard for the Lord to fix? Maybe you believe God can fix your problems. But you don’t believe He will solve things in the way you want them solved. How true is this for you?`