---
title:  Staying Loyal To The God We Can’t See 
date:  18/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Do you sometimes think that no one cares about you? That’s a very sad thought, right? What if we thought that God Himself didn’t care about us? Sometimes our thoughts hurt us.

What do you think the Jews believed when Babylonian soldiers forced them to move to Babylon? The Jews thought God didn’t really care about them. They felt God left them because of their sin. Isaiah gives the Jews hope. In Isaiah 40, Isaiah tells the Jews that the Lord loves them so much: “Like [the same as] a good shepherd, he takes care of his people. He gathers [carries] them like lambs in his arms. He holds them close, while their mothers walk beside him” (Isaiah 40:11, ERV). Isaiah 40 is a beautiful chapter! But it was hard for the Jews in Babylon to believe these words. The Jews kept thinking, “Where are You, O Lord? We can’t see any proof that You are with us or care about us!”

`Read Isaiah 40:27–31. What does Isaiah compare God to? How do these word pictures show the Jews that God cares about them?`

Maybe the Jews in the book of Esther also thought that God didn’t care about them. God’s name is not in the book of Esther. But the whole story shows us that God saves His people from a law that will destroy them. This story is a record of Jewish history. At the same time, the story is a word picture for what will happen in the future. It shows us a time when evil people will again hurt God’s people and make a law to destroy them (Revelation 13:15). Even today, we may think that God forgot about us when bad things happen. But we must learn to trust. The same God who saved His people in the book of Esther will save His people again in the end times.

`Think about the way that Isaiah talked about God to the Jews in Babylon. What if you were Isaiah? What can you say to people who feel that God left them alone? How will you teach them to look to God in faith and not depend on what they see with their human eyes?`