---
title:  Further Thought
date:  19/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “In the Days of Queen Esther,” pages 598–606, in Prophets and Kings.

“God will give us the Holy Spirit if we ask Him. His Spirit is real. He will guide us. Some people are afraid to trust God. They feel that trusting God is the same as expecting God to do something He hasn’t promised to do. They pray for the Lord to teach His people. But these same men are afraid to trust God’s promises or believe He has taught us already. We must come to God with an open heart. We also must be willing to learn. Then we can trust that God will keep His own promise to teach us. Don’t for one second doubt God. If you doubt Him, you will fail to show Him honor and respect. You must believe that God will lead you and guide you. Then He will bless you when you do His commands. Sure, we may not trust ourselves to be wise enough to understand God’s teachings. So, we must pray and fully trust God to help us understand. Then the Holy Spirit will lead us to understand God’s plans for us. Then we will see God’s leading and blessings in our lives.”—Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, volume 6, page 225, adapted.

“Our faith grows strong when we fight against doubt or when God gives us a test. These experiences will help our faith grow stronger. These experiences are worth more to us than expensive jewels.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 3, page 555, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Name some things that we can’t see that we believe are real. We know they are real, but we don’t see them with our eyes. How can these things help us understand what it means to see “Him who can’t be seen”?`

`What can we do to help ourselves trust in the Lord’s way, even if we want to do something else?`

`Read the final quote from Ellen G. White again. How may this idea help us during hard times?`

`Sometimes we pray and do our best. But things don’t get better. What did we learn this week that can help us understand why God allows bad things to happen?`