---
title:  Offerings of Gratitude
date:   24/02/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matt. 6:19-21; Eph. 2:8; 1 Pet. 4:10; Luke 7:37-47; 2 Cor. 8:8-15; 2 Cor. 9:6, 7.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life” (John 3:16, NKJV).

Our God is a giving God; this great truth is seen most powerfully in the sacrifice of Jesus. “For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life” (John 3:16, NKJV). Or in this verse: “If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him!” (Luke 11:13, NKJV).

God gives and gives; it’s His character. Thus, we who seek to reflect that character need to give as well. It’s hard to imagine more of a contradiction in terms than that of “a selfish Christian.”

One way to give back what we have been given is through offerings. Our offerings present an opportunity to express gratitude and love. On the day that Jesus welcomes the redeemed into heaven we will see those who accepted His grace, and realize that those acceptances were made possible by our sacrificial offerings.

This week we will look at important aspects of offerings. Giving generously, whether from means, time, or talent, is a powerful means of living our faith and revealing the character of the God whom we serve.

*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, March 3.*
