---
title:  “Where Your Treasure Is”
date:   25/02/2018
---

`Read Matthew 6:19-21. Though we are so familiar with these texts, how can we nevertheless be free from the powerful hold earthly treasures can have on us? See Col. 3:1, 2.`

“‘For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also” (Matt. 6:21, NKJV) is an appeal from Jesus. The full magnitude of this statement can be seen from the preceding two verses, which contrast storing our treasures on earth with storing them in heaven. Three words describe earth: moths, rust, and thieves (see Matt. 6:19), all of which imply just how temporal and transient our earthly treasure is. Who hasn’t learned just how quickly earthly things can vanish? “On earth everything is unstable, uncertain, and insecure; it is subject to decay, destruction, stealing, and loss. Heaven is the opposite: everything is eternal, durable, secure, and imperishable. In heaven there is no loss.” - C. Adelina Alexe, “Where Your Heart Belongs”, in Beyond Blessings, edited by Nikolaus Satelmajer, (Nampa, Idaho: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 2013), p. 22.

Look at your possessions. Even if you have only a very few, sooner or later most of them will be thrown away. The exception might be an heirloom. But a wise steward should be concerned with putting treasures in heaven for safekeeping. There, unlike here, you don’t have to worry about recessions, thieves, or even plunderers.

Matthew 6:19-21 contains one of the most important concepts on stewardship. Your treasure pulls, tugs, coerces, draws, demands, allures, and desires to control your heart. In the material world your heart follows your treasure, so where your treasure is remains vitally important. The more we focus on earthly needs and gains, the harder it is to think on heavenly matters.

Professing belief in God but keeping our treasure here on earth is hypocritical. Our actions must agree with our words. In other words, we see our treasures on earth by sight, but we must see our offerings as treasures in heaven by faith (2 Cor. 5:7). Though we, of course, need to be practical and provide for our needs (even retirement), it’s crucial to always keep the big picture, eternity, in mind.

`Read Hebrews 10:34. What important point is Paul making here about the contrast between treasure on earth and treasure in heaven?`
