---
title:  Buy Something That Is Free? 
date:  07/03/2021
---

`Read this verse: “ ‘Listen! Every one who is thirsty, come to the waters. And you who have no money, come, buy and eat’ ” (Isaiah 55:1 NLV). How can you buy something if it is free?`

Let us say you took some food and stood on a street in a big city. Then you announced to the hungry and homeless people: “Hey, do you have no money? That is OK! Come, buy and eat anyway!” But how can they buy if they have no money?

But what if you added these words as Isaiah does: “ ‘You will not have [need] to pay anything for it’ ” (Isaiah 55:1, NIrV). Then the verse makes more sense, right? Isaiah asks the people to accept forgiveness from God (Isaiah 55:7). God freely gives this forgiveness to them. So, then, why does Isaiah write the word “buy”? The word “buy” shows us what God offers people. God offers to meet our needs. The word “buy” also shows that what God offers is worth a lot. So, if we want to get these gifts, we must ask for them. God freely offers forgiveness to us. The gift of forgiveness is part of His special agreement that God makes with His people. God offers forgiveness for free. But not because forgiveness was free for Him. God “bought” forgiveness for us at an awful price. His Servant died to buy it for us. So, it is free for us. But forgiveness came with a big price tag for God. That is what the word “buy” shows us.

`What price did God pay to save us? For the answer, read 1 Peter 1:18, 19.`

`Read Ephesians 2:8, 9. What do these verses teach us about our being saved? Compare this teaching to the teaching of Isaiah. How are they the same?`

Isaiah teaches us about the Good News. The teaching about the Good News in the Old Testament is the same as the Good News in the New Testament. The Old Testament did not teach that we are saved by our good behavior. There is only one way that we can be saved. God saves us by our faith in His mercy (Ephesians 2:8). He gives us “the free gift of life forever in Christ Jesus our Lord” (Romans 6:23, ICB).