---
title:  Deep Thoughts And Ways 
date:  08/03/2021
---

`The Lord says, “ ‘My thoughts are not like your thoughts. And your ways are not like my ways. . . . The heavens are higher than the earth. And my ways are higher than your ways’ ” (Isaiah 55:8, 9, NIrV). Why does the Lord say this?`

We cannot fully understand God or things that He made. He is stronger and more powerful than we are. That should make it easier for us to accept His help (read Isaiah 57:15).

`Read Isaiah 55:6–9. What is the Lord saying in these verses? And why? What does the Lord do that is so hard for us to understand?`

Life is full of mystery. Maybe the hardest one for the human mind to understand is the plan of God to save humans from sin (read Ephesians 6:19). The same God who made the stars and planets became a human. He lived a hard life. He suffered. Then He offered Himself for our sins. He died on the cross. He did these things to forgive us and to show us mercy. How can we ever fully understand this wonderful truth?

“The angels wish to look into the plan of God to save sinners. The people that God saves will study this Bible truth forever. They will sing about it too. So, why not study about it carefully now?

“We cannot ever learn or know everything there is to know about this topic. It includes how Jesus became a human and how He gave Himself for our sins. It also includes His work in heaven for us now. We will study these topics forever.”—Ellen G. White, My Life Today, page 360, adapted.

`Who have you hurt? What mean words have you said to someone? How many promises have you made and then not kept? Jesus forgives you for all these things. He helps you to stand, right now, perfect and holy in the eyes of God. He gives you the power over sin and evil in your life. Wow! It is hard to understand this beautiful Bible truth. It is a mystery. Why not thank God right now for this wonderful gift?`