---
title:  Not Eating Food For A Short Time 
date:  09/03/2021
---

`A fast is a time when someone chooses not to eat any food for religious reasons for a little while. What “fast” is God talking about in Isaiah 58:3?`

For sure, this must be the fast that happens on the Day of Atonement. The Day of Atonement is the time each year when the temple on earth was made clean from sin. On this day, the people of God did not eat any food. This is the only time that God commands His people to fast, or not eat for a short time (Leviticus 16:29, 31; Leviticus 23:27–32). Isaiah talks about what we should do when we fast (Isaiah 58:3). He writes the same words that we see in Leviticus about fasting. When we fast, God wants us to say No to pride. Both Leviticus and Isaiah talk about our need to empty our hearts of pride. Another name for doing this is humbling our hearts. Humbling our hearts is a part of a spiritual fast (compare Psalm 35:13; Daniel 10:2, 3, 12).

The Day of Atonement helps us understand the command from the Lord: “ ‘Shout like [the same as] a trumpet!’ ” (Isaiah 58:1, ERV). On the Day of Atonement, the holy leaders blew a special trumpet named a “shofar.” The “shofar” was made from the horn of a male sheep. The holy leaders blew the shofar 10 days before the Day of Atonement (Leviticus 23:24). This helped the people remember the Day of Atonement and to get ready for it. Also, every 50 years, on the Day of Atonement, the holy leaders blew the shofar to announce the start of the Jubilee (Leviticus 25:9, 10; compare Isaiah 27:13). That is the time when slaves were made free. Land that had been sold in the past was given back to its first owners.

`Read Isaiah 58:3–7. What is the Lord complaining about in these verses? What is wrong with the “fast” that His people are doing?`

On the Day of Atonement, the chief religious leader went into the most holy room of the temple to make it clean from sin. God already forgave His people for these sins. That is why the people did not eat any food. Their fasting showed God their thankfulness for His gift of forgiveness. But the people in the time of Isaiah are filled with pride. They fast to show they are very holy. They do not see that their sins made the temple dirty.