---
title:  Not Eating Food For The Wrong Reasons 
date:  10/03/2021
---

The holy leaders blow the shofar 10 days before the Day of Atonement. The shofar is a special horn made from the horn of a male ram. The holy leaders blow it to help the people remember to get ready for the Day of Atonement 10 days later. The Day of Atonement is the time when the chief religious leader will go into the most holy room of the temple. Then he will make it clean from all the sins of the people. God has already forgiven these sins. The shofar also helps the people of God remember that He is their king. Ten days after the shofar is blown, Isaiah announces a message in a loud voice the same as a trumpet. His message announces to the people that they are turning against God (Isaiah 58:1).

`Read Isaiah 58:6–12. What actions does God consider to be part of a fast that He will accept? Remember, a fast is a time when people choose to not eat any food for a short while. What is harder to do? Is it harder to skip a few meals? Or is it harder to use your own time and money to feed the homeless in your town? What is the Bible rule that helps us answer these questions? How does helping other people show what Bible religion really is all about?`

Anyone can be religious. But that is not the only thing the Lord wants from us. Look at the life of Jesus. Yes, He was loyal to His religion. He did everything that He needed to do. At the same time, do you see how much the Bible writers showed us about His acts of mercy, healing, feeding the hungry, and His forgiveness? The New Testament writers showed us much more about these things than they did about the religious things Jesus needed to do to be a good Jew.

What does the Lord want from us today? He wants a church and a people who will preach Bible truth to everyone on the earth. What will lead people to accept the truth about Jesus? Will it be our strict obedience to the laws of health? Or will it be our feeding the hungry? Will it be our strict way of keeping the Sabbath? Or our spending time in helping people in need?

`Read Matthew 25:40 and James 1:27. What do these verses tell us in answer to the questions in the paragraph above?`