---
title:  A Time For Us 
date:  11/03/2021
---

`Why does Isaiah talk about the Sabbath in Isaiah 58:13, 14? What connection does the Sabbath have with the Day of Atonement? As we saw, the Day of Atonement is the time each year when the temple on earth was made clean from sin.`

The Day of Atonement happened one time each year on the Sabbath day. No one is allowed to do any work on this day (Leviticus 23:27–32), the same as on the weekly Sabbath day. So, what is true about working on the Sabbath day each week is also true about the Day of Atonement.

`Read Isaiah 58:13. As this verse shows, how does God want us to keep the Sabbath? How can we make our Sabbath experience the same as the one in this verse? Why should it be that way for us?`

Isaiah 58 talks about three main ideas: (1) saying no to sin and giving up things we love to help other people; (2) being kind to other people; and (3) the Sabbath.

How are these three ideas connected?

First, all three ideas show that we should put God first. We need to understand that we fully depend on Him. Second, when we live these three ideas in our lives, we live a holy life by doing what God asks us to do (read Leviticus 19:2). God showed Himself to us in the Person of Jesus. Jesus left His glory in heaven and became a human Servant (Philippians 2:8). Jesus showed us how to be kind and how to give up things to help save other people (John 3:16). After He made the earth, Jesus rested from His work (Genesis 2:2, 3; Exodus 20:11).

`Look some more at these three ideas in Isaiah 58. We see that the Sabbath gives us freedom from our work each week. This freedom is kind to people. Why? Because it lets people rest (Exodus 23:12; Mark 2:27). Jesus shows that kind acts are good and right to do on the Sabbath (Mark 3:1–5; John 5:1–17). Sabbath keeping makes us happy (Isaiah 58:14). So does helping other people (Isaiah 58:10, 11). What must change in your own life so that this experience can be yours?`