---
title:  Further Thought
date:  12/03/2021
---

“No one can be kind and giving without first knowing how to say No to self. You must live a simple life. You must give up wanting things that you do not need. You must be very careful with money. Then it will be possible for us to do the work that Jesus asks us to do. We must empty our hearts of all pride and the wish to get ahead in this life. In all our work, we must show the Bible rule of an unselfish life. This is the life Jesus lived. The walls, pictures, and furniture in our homes should show the Bible rule in Isaiah 58:7. Our clothing closets and our dining room table should show this important rule too. ‘I want you to share your food with the hungry. I want you to find the poor who don’t have homes and bring them into your own homes. When you see people who have no clothes, give them your clothes!’ Isaiah 58:7 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 206, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Isaiah asked the people of his time a question: “ ‘Why waste your money on something that is not real food? Why should you work for something that does not really satisfy [make happy] you?’ ” (Isaiah 55:2, ERV). In what way are we doing the same thing as the people in the time of Isaiah? That is, how are we working for things that do not make us happy? Why is it so easy to work for the wrong things?`

`Saying No to things you do not need was important in the time of Isaiah. So was being kind and keeping the Sabbath. How important are they to us in the end time? (For the answer, read 1 Corinthians 15:52; compare Leviticus 25:9, 10).`

`In class, talk about Sabbath keeping. What is Isaiah talking about when he says we should turn away from doing what pleases us on the Sabbath? At the same time, the Sabbath should be a joyful experience for us (Isaiah 58:13). How can we keep the Sabbath holy and have a happy experience at the same time?`

**Summary**: In Isaiah 55 and 58, Isaiah asks his people to give up their way of doing things and their way of thinking. He asks them to come back to God. God shows mercy to His people. He pardons their sin. Then God asks His people to show other people the mercy He showed them. This mercy shows the real meaning of the Sabbath. If we accept the gift of forgiveness, then our hearts and lives will be changed.