---
title:  God Makes Us Right by Faith
date:   21/10/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Romans 3:19–28.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “A man is made right with God by putting his trust in Christ. It is not by his doing what the Law says” (Romans 3:28, NLV)

Now we come to the most important topic in Romans: justifcation by faith. Justifcation by faith means God makes us right with Him by our faith in Jesus. Martin Luther’s teaching about this wonderful truth led to the start of the Protestant churches. The Catholic Church tried to stop Luther. In 1520, Pope Leo sent out a letter that showed he disapproved of Luther and his teachings. Luther burned a copy of the letter. He never could give up his belief in justifcation by faith. 

How does “justifcation by faith” work? Here is a picture story that helps explain how this truth works. A person who breaks the law comes before a judge. The judge sentences this person to death. But a substitute appears and takes this person’s guilt on himself. The person who broke the law is now no longer guilty. The judge now views this person as someone who never broke the law. All because the substitute has a perfect record of obeying the law. The substitute offers this perfect record to the guilty person who accepts it and then goes free.  

In God’s plan to save us, everyone of us is the guilty person. Jesus is our Substitute. Jesus has a perfect record. He stands in the court of heaven in our place. God accepts Jesus’ perfect life in place of our record. Then we are made right with God.  
