---
title:  The Works of the Law
date:   22/10/2017
---

`Read Romans 3:19, 20. What is Paul saying here about the law? What does the law do? And what can the law not do? Why is this truth about the law so important for every Christian to understand?`

Paul uses the word “law” to mean the moral law. The moral law is another name for the God’s Ten Commandments. The moral law is explained in the judgments and statutes. Statutes are written rules and laws. The judgments and statutes give examples that show us how the Ten Commandments can be useful in everyday life. Another part of the Old Testament laws is the ceremonial law. The ceremonial law explained the use of animals in the Jewish plan of worship. All these different laws together made up the plan of the Jewish religion. 

What does it mean to be “under the Law” (Romans 3:19, NLV)? The wording “under the law” means to be under the control of the law’s legal power. The law shows a person’s faults and guilt in God’s eyes. But the law cannot remove a sinner’s guilt. What the law can do is lead the sinner to God. God can free the sinner from guilt. 

Now, let us put to use this idea about the law found in Romans. Today, we are no longer under the control of the law that explained the use of animals in the Jewish plan of worship. So, for us, the word “law” means the moral law, or the Ten Commandments. The moral law cannot save us any more than the plan of the Jewish religion could save the Jews. But saving the sinner is not what the moral law is meant to do. Instead, the moral law is meant to show us how perfect, holy, and good God is. The moral law also is meant to point out to people where they fail to show God’s perfect love in their lives.    

No part of the law will make a person right with God. In fact, the law never was meant to do that. The law was made to do a completely different task. 

The law was meant to point out our faults and lead us to Jesus. The law cannot save us from the sickness of sin. Instead, God made the law to point to our need for healing. That healing comes only from Jesus.

`Do you have a perfect record of obeying the law? What should that answer tell you about how useless it is to try to save yourself by obeying the law?`
