---
title:  The Saving Power of God
date:   23/10/2017
---

`“But now God has made another way to make men right with Himself. It is not by the Law. The Law and the early preachers tell about it” (Romans 3:21, NLV). What does this verse mean?`

In Romans 3:21, Paul talks about God’s saving power, or righteousness. Righteousness is God’s power to make us obedient to His law. Paul says this new saving power is different from the law’s power. Then Paul tells us more about this new saving power. First, this new saving power is named “the righteousness of God” (NIV). So, its name tells us that it is a power that comes only from God. Second, it is the only power that God accepts as true saving power.

This power is the same saving power Jesus showed in His life while He was on this earth. Jesus offers this same power to all who accept it by faith. We do not get this saving power because we are worthy of it. No, God gives us this wonderful saving power because we need it. God uses this saving power to make us right with Him.

“ ‘God’s saving power’ means obedience to the law. The law asks for perfect obedience from everyone. The sinner owes the law this obedience. But the sinner can-not obey the law on his own. The only way the sinner can do all that the law asks is by faith. By faith, the sinner can bring to God Jesus’ holy life. Then God accepts Jesus’ perfect life in place of the sinner’s life. Now God can accept the believing soul as His child. God can forgive and make the sinner right with Him. God treats the sinner as if the sinner were holy. And God loves the sinner as He loves His Son.”—Ellen G. White, *Selected Messages*, book 1, page 367, adapted. 

`How can you learn to accept this wonderful truth for yourself? Read also Romans 3:22 for a hint.`

Faith in Jesus includes much more than belief in a teach-ing. Faith in Jesus includes more than accepting facts about Jesus’ life and death as true. Instead, true faith in Jesus means accepting Him as Savior, Substitute, and Lord. True faith means choosing Jesus’ way of life. It means trusting Him and following His Ten Commandments.
