---
title:  Accepted By God
date:   24/10/2017
---

`What is Paul saying in Romans 3:24? What does it mean that “Christ Jesus paid the price to set us free” (NIrV)?`

Romans 3:24 says that God makes us right with Him by His grace. Grace is God’s gift to us of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. So, what does this idea about “God’s grace mak[ing] us right” (NIrV) with Him mean? The wording “makes us right” in Romans 3:24 comes from the Greek word *dikaioo*. *Dikaioo* means to “make a person right” with God. *Dikaioo* also can be written as “make holy,” “make known that a person is holy,” or “to think of someone as holy.” The word *dikaioo* comes from the same Greek word as two other Greek words: (1) *dikaiosune*, a word that means “being holy” and (2) *dikaioma*, a word that means “holy thing that is needed.” So, these words show us the close connection between “being made right with God” and “being made holy.” Another name for “being made right with God” is justifcation. And another name for “being made holy” is righteousness. Some Bibles do not show clearly this connection between our being made right with God and our being made holy. But Paul wants us to understand we are made right with God when God says we are holy.

Before we are made right with God, we are full of sin. So, God cannot accept us. But after God makes us right with Himself, then God thinks of us as holy, and He accepts us.

Our being made right with God and our becoming holy happen only by grace. Grace means gift. What happens when a sinner accepts God’s gift of grace and turns to God to be saved? Then grace allows God to say that this person is holy. We can do nothing to earn this grace. We are not worthy of grace. Our own good behavior cannot make us right with God. Instead, God gives us grace because of our big need. We are helpless to save ourselves. So, we must be made right with God by our faith in Jesus. Jesus paid the price to free us from sin. 

God makes us right in an instant. One minute we are not holy or accepted by God. But the next minute, God makes us right with Him, and we are made holy. 
 
What happens when we fall away from God and then come back to Him? Then we must be made right with God all over again. Also, our being made right with God is something that happens again and again every day of our Christian lives.

