---
title:  The Holy Life of Jesus
date:   25/10/2017
---

In Romans 3:25, Paul explains more about the Good News that Jesus saves. Paul says, “God gave Christ as a sacrifce [gift] to pay for sins . . . [by] the spilling of his blood” (NIrV). “Sacrifce” comes from the Greek word *hilasterion*. *Hilasterion* is found only in Romans 3:25 and Hebrews 9:5. 

In Romans 3:25, *hilasterion* is used to mean God’s offer to make us right with Him and to save us in Jesus. But in Hebrews 9:5, *hilasterion* is written as “mercy seat” (NKJV) or “over the place where sin was paid for” (NIrV). The mercy seat was found in the Old Testament sanctuary. The sanctuary was the place where God was worshiped. The mercy seat was a symbol that pointed to Jesus’ death and God’s promise to save us. So, *hilasterion*, or “sacrifce” (NIrV), in Romans 3:25 seems to say that everything the mercy seat promised us came true in Jesus’ death for us on the cross. By His death, Jesus became The Way of saving us. So, Romans 3:25 means that God did everything that needed to be done to save us. 

Romans 3:25 also says God “did not punish for their sins the people who lived before Jesus lived” (NIrV). Our sins stop God from accepting us. We can do nothing to get rid of our sins. But God made a way to take our sins away. That way is by our faith in Jesus’ blood. 

Some Bibles write “did not punish” (NIrV) as “remission [pardon]” (KJV). Both wordings come from the Greek word *paresis*. *Paresis* means “passing over” or “passing by.” But “passing over” does not mean that God pays no attention to our sins. Instead, God can pass over the sins of our past. Why? Because Jesus’ death paid the price for all of our sins. So, people who have faith in the power of Jesus’ blood can have their sins taken away.

`What truth does Paul show in Romans 3:26, 27?`

The Cross allows God to announce that sinners are holy. The Cross allows God to appear right and fair before the people He made on other planets who never sinned. So, Satan cannot accuse God of being unfair. The Cross proves Satan wrong. 

`No doubt Satan thought God would destroy humans after they sinned. Instead, God sent Jesus to save us. What does that tell us about God?`
