---
title:  Not Saved By Obeying the Law
date:   26/10/2017
---

`Romans 3:28 says “a person is made right with God” (NIrV) because of his or her faith. No one is “saved by obeying the law” (NIrV). But does this verse also mean we do not need to obey the law? Explain.`

Let us be clear: “the law” that Paul talks about in Romans 3:28 means all of the Old Testament laws. Now, picture in your mind a Jew who tried very hard to obey all those laws. In the end, his obedience would make no difference. Why? Because he could not be made right with God without frst accepting Jesus as the Messiah. The Messiah was the One God chose to take away our sins.

In Romans 3:28, Paul says that, because of the Messiah, we have nothing to brag about. We are saved by faith alone. What if we could be made right with God by doing good? Then we could brag. But we are made right with God by our faith in Jesus. So, all the praise belongs to God. God alone makes the sinner right with Him. 

Ellen G. White gives an interesting answer to the question, “What does it mean for humans to be made right with God?” She writes: “It is God’s work to put the glory of man in the dust. God does for man the things that  man  cannot do for himself.” —*Testimonies [Messages] to Ministers [Pastors] and Gospel [Good News] Workers*, page 456, adapted.

Our obeying the law cannot get rid of our past sins. We cannot earn the gift of being made right with God either. God gives this gift to us only by our faith in Jesus’ death. So, we can say that our obeying the law has nothing to do with our being made right with God. Our being made right with God by faith means we are justifed—or made right—without our having done anything to earn that gift. Nothing we do makes us worthy of that gift either. 

But many Christians misunderstand Paul’s words in Romans 3:28. These Christians say the only thing a person must do to be saved is believe. These Christians completely misread Paul. In Romans and in other places in the Bible, Paul puts a lot of importance on obeying the Ten Commandments. Jesus does too. So do James and John (Matthew 19:17; Romans 2:13; James 2:10, 11; Revelation 14:12). True, our obedience to the law does not make us right with God. But Paul wants us to understand that the person who is made right with God obeys God’s law. In fact, this person is the only one who can obey the law.
