---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   27/10/2017
---

“The law cannot get rid of our penalty for breaking it. Instead, the law points to the sinner’s guilt. But Jesus promises to pardon all people who turn away from sin. They must believe in Jesus’ mercy. God freely offers His love to those believing souls who feel sorry for the sins they did. Sin can be washed away from the soul only by the blood of Jesus’ death on the cross. Jesus was equal with God the Father. But He died for us anyway. The work of Jesus includes His life, His suffering, His death, and His work as a go-between for us with God. All this work brings great praise and honor to the law.”—Ellen G. White, *Selected Messages*, book 1, page 371, adapted.

“God puts Jesus’ holy life in place of your past sins. Then God accepts you as if you never sinned.” —Ellen G. White, *Steps to Christ*, page 62, adapted.

“Paul says we ‘are not saved by obeying the law’ [Romans 3:28, NIrV]. Instead, in that same verse, Paul says believers are ‘made right with God because of their faith.’ Notice Paul does not say ‘their works of faith or mercy.’ The person who does good works does not believe doing them makes him right with God. But while he does them, he wants to be made right with God by faith. Now, what does Paul mean by ‘obeying the law’? Paul means those things that certain people do to make themselves right with God. These people feel they are holy because of the things they do. They do not want to be made holy by God. Instead, they want to brag about how they have been made holy by their own works.”—Martin Luther, *Commentary [Explanation] on Romans*, page 80, adapted.  

**Discussion Questions**

`1. Read the verses again for this week. In your own words, write a paragraph that explains what these verses mean to you. Share what you wrote with the class.`

`2. Read the quotation from Martin Luther again. Why did the truth about being made right with God lead Luther to do the things he did? Why are Luther’s words so important for us to understand today?`

`3. Today, how are we the "owners" of the important truths taught by Paul and Martin Luther? These truths include: (1) God makes us right with Himself. (2) God’s loving-favor saves us by faith alone.`
