---
title:  Paul’s First Missionary Journey
date:   11/08/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Acts 13, 2 Cor. 4:7–10, Rom. 10:1–4, Rom. 3:19, Acts 14:1–26, Romans 9–11.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Therefore, my friends, I want you to know that through Jesus the forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. Through [H]im everyone who believes is set free from every sin, a justification you were not able to obtain under the law of Moses’ ” (Acts 13:38, 39, NIV).

Most certainly, the gospel was to go to the  Gentiles as well as the Jews. This was a message that, slowly but surely, the early Jewish Christians were starting to grasp.

Our first explicit report of Gentiles joining the faith in large scale relates to Antioch. In other words, it was in Antioch that the first Gentile church was founded, even if it also had a substantial contingent of Jewish believers (Gal. 2:11–13). Due to the missionary zeal of its founders and the new impetus provided by the arrival of Barnabas and Paul, the church there grew rapidly, and it became the first important Christian center outside Judea. In fact, in some aspects it even surpassed the church in Jerusalem.

With the apostles still stationed in Jerusalem, Antioch became the birthplace of Christian missions. It was from there, and with the initial support of the local believers, that Paul left on all three of his missionary journeys. It was because of their commitment that Christianity became what Jesus had intended: a world religion, one in which the gospel would be spread to “every nation, tribe, tongue, and people” (Rev. 14:6, NKJV).

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, August 18._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[Paul’s] labors were more abundant than any of the disciples, his stripes above measure. He was beaten with rods, stoned, shipwrecked, in deaths oft. He was in peril by land and sea, in the city and in the wilderness, from robbers and from his own countrymen. He prosecuted his mission under continual infirmities, in painfulness, in weariness, in watchings often, in cold, in nakedness. . . . When he answered the bloodthirsty Nero, no man stood with him. . . . 

But did Paul devote his precious time to the relation of his grievous abuses? No, he called the attention from himself to Jesus. He did not live for his own happiness, yet he was happy. . . . “I am exceeding joyful in all our tribulation.” 2 Corinthians 7:4. . . .

Paul was a living example of what every true Christian should be. He lived for God’s glory. . . . “For me to live is Christ.” Philippians 1:21.—_Our High Calling_, p. 363. 

Much so-called Christianity passes for genuine, faithful soundness, but it is because those who profess it have no persecution to endure for the truth’s sake. When the day comes when the law of God is made void, and the church is sifted by the fiery trials that are to try all that live upon the earth, a great proportion of those who are supposed to be genuine will give heed to seducing spirits, and will turn traitors and betray sacred trusts. They will prove our very worst persecutors. “Of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them;” and many will give heed to seducing spirits. 

Those who have lived on the flesh and blood of the Son of God—His Holy Word—will be strengthened, rooted, and grounded in the faith. They will see increased evidence why they should prize and obey the Word of God. With David, they will say, “They have made void thy law. Therefore love I thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold.” While others count them dross, they will arise to defend the faith. All who study their convenience, their pleasure, their enjoyment, will not stand in their trial.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 6, p. 1065. 

To all people and nations and kindreds and tongues the truth is to be proclaimed. The time has come for much aggressive work to be done in the cities, and in all neglected, unworked fields.

Diligent work is now called for. In this crisis, no halfhearted efforts will prove successful. In all our city work, we are to hunt for souls. Wise plans are to be laid, in order that such work may be done to the best possible advantage. . . . 

Oh, how I seem to hear the voice day and night, “Go forward; add new territory; enter new territory with the tent, and give the last message of warning to the world. There is no time to be lost. Leave My memorial in every place where ye shall go. My Spirit will go before you, and the glory of the Lord shall be your rearward.”—_Evangelism_, pp. 59, 61. 