---
title:  Digital Church
date:  13/06/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Ephesians 4:11–16

Digital Church

With the increasing prevalence of digital worship services and sermons, the temptation to stay home for church is getting harder to resist, especially for those who have younger children, difficult-to-awaken family members (or yourself!), or high-intensity schedules through the week. Whereas societies in the past were based on small communities, these building blocks are slowly eroding away, at least their pew version of them. Ironically, with the rise of megacities and the aggregation of people, we are more isolated than ever before. Through digital means, we can choose our spiritual communities and forms of worship based on our personal taste. Though there are clear benefits to the digitalization of worship, one must clearly compare the practice with biblical principles and use the best of both worlds to develop our spiritual relationships further.

Though we have digital communities, they are customizable and can be turned on or off at any time. Though we have online churches, they are now competing in the marketplace of other venues. Though we have streaming sermons, they are packaged, labeled, advertised, and billed amidst a plethora of other forms of spoken word. These resources are beneficial and not to be seen as the result of technology’s malevolence. Rather, this shift brings an opportunity to reassess our understanding of worship altogether.

In the digital age, why does one even attend church? How does one choose a church? Is the pew preferable to the mouse? What is God’s will concerning our interaction with church?  And why is church important for our spirituality? These are the questions that will be addressed in this lesson.

#### inScribe

Write out Ephesians 4:11–16 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``