---
title:  Hope Rediscovered
date:   30/09/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 25:1–13**

**Hope Rediscovered**

The Seventh-day Adventist Church’s story is of people seeking Jesus. The Advent movement began with one core idea: the hope that Jesus would soon return to this earth. They looked for Jesus to appear in the clouds of heaven, in the glory of the Father, with all the holy angels.

When William Miller was first convicted that Jesus would be coming within the next twenty-five years, he had no desire to ever preach about it. He wasn’t a university-trained scholar, pastor, or teacher; he was a farmer who had slipped away from Christianity, become a deist, and found his way back to the Christian faith through methodical personal Bible study. He studied and restudied his conclusions for fifteen years. In 1833, he finally yielded to God’s call, leading him to publicly share his Bible studies. Coming from a skeptical background himself, his messages converted thousands of agnostics, deists, and other skeptics. His messages also revived lifelong Christians who had been spiritually dead. Hearing Miller explain the fulfilled prophecies from Daniel and Revelation gave people a reason to have firm faith in God, and his messages about Christ’s soon return gave an urgency to his appeals.

The consistent emphasis on the Second Coming within our movement (as evidenced in our name, Adventist), can be traced back to the significant impact and influence of the Millerite movement of the 1830s and 40s. The revival in the belief of the Second Coming’s imminence at this time was felt worldwide, with other significant proponents being Manuel De Lacunza in South America, Edward Irving in England, and Johann Bengel across Germany, Europe, Asia, and Africa. These two decades saw significant advances in the discovery of truth as it relates to the second coming and the sanctuary, but there were also significant errors that had to be rectified and, in some cases, unlearned. It was a revival that affected Christians across denominational lines and was truly based on people knowing the Bible for themselves.

Today, in a culture absorbed in materialistic thinking and living, the message of the Second Coming is as revolutionary as ever. May we also help others orient their lives to the immanent reality of Jesus’ return.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 25:1–13 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `