---
title:  Go Tell the World
date:   01/10/2023
---

#### inGest

The Great Advent Awakening of the late 18th and early 19th centuries laid the foundation for the Millerite movement. There was great interest during this time in the study of Revelation 6, which covers the events that precede the Second Coming. Verses 12 and 13 outline three separate events that took place during that time: the Great Lisbon Earthquake in 1755, the Dark Day of May 19, 1780, and the day the stars fell from the heavens—November 13, 1833. All three pointed toward Christ’s second coming, and the people’s interest and anticipation grew in the wake of these fulfilled prophecies.

There are several key passages that drove the Millerite movement, but Daniel 8:14, which predicted a sanctuary being cleansed at the conclusion of the 2,300-day timeline, was especially influential. Unfortunately, in their study, the Adventist pioneers wrongly accepted the popular interpretation that the cleansing of the sanctuary referred to the earth being cleansed by fire at the Second Coming. Combining this interpretation with their understanding of the 2,300-day prophecy, they reached the conclusion that Jesus would come in the year 1843.

William Miller started actively preaching in 1833, traveling thousands of miles and preaching to thousands of people over the next ten years. He initially believed Jesus would come sometime between March 21, 1843 and March 21, 1844, but when both dates passed, he returned to the biblical texts and embraced the 10th day of the 7th month, the Day of Atonement (Lev. 16:29), as the date of Jesus’ coming. This led them to determine that October 22, 1844 would finally bring the anticipated event.

Matthew 25 and the parable of the ten virgins became a key passage for the waiting believers. The chapter continues the dialogue from Matthew 24, in which Jesus gave the signs for both Jerusalem’s destruction and the end of the world since the disciples couldn’t comprehend that the two events would be separated by at least two thousand years. He then told a few parables that have direct relevance to the Second Coming. Chapter 25 has three such parables, the first of which is about the ten virgins. As the Millerites looked at this parable, they understood that Jesus is the bridegroom and the waiting church is the ten virgins. In the story, five virgins are wise, having brought extra oil to last them while the bridegroom postpones His coming, and five are foolish, being unprepared for the delay. These thirteen verses encapsulate the experience of those who expected Jesus to return in 1844, but they’re also relevant to the church today as we continue to wait.

The history of early Adventism should remind us to be humble and very careful in our Bible study. Even people who were used by God in remarkable ways have at times accepted popular errors and been incorrect in their study. It’s encouraging to see that God uses imperfect people in His work, but it should also warn us that just because God is blessing our ministry doesn’t mean we won’t make mistakes in our study.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`What can cause us to be like the five virgins who traveled to the wedding, brought their lamps, but didn’t realize they had no oil until it was too late? How can we avoid being like them?`

`As you read through this chapter, which of these signs do you see as particularly relevant?`