---
title:  Build up the Reserves
date:   02/10/2023
---

### inTerpret

Life for the early Advent believers was a mixture of faith and action. Leonard Hastings didn’t harvest his potatoes because he believed Jesus was coming. Joseph Bates invested all his money in writing articles and preaching. The Stowell family sold their farm and moved in with the Andrews family. When Jesus failed to appear as they had hoped first in the spring of 1844 and then in October, the disappointment was deep and painful. They wrestled with humiliation, fear, and confusion as a thousand questions about what they believed assaulted them.

The parable of the ten virgins applies to both the waiting time in 1844 and the much longer waiting time the church has endured since then. Matthew 25:1–13 places particular emphasis on the importance of personal preparation for Christ’s coming. Verses 3 and 4 outline the difference between the two types of women: the wise brought oil while the foolish didn’t. Oil is a common symbol of the Holy Spirit (Zech. 4:1–5), something the foolish virgins lacked in their lives. They clearly had a biblical knowledge of truth and an outward appearance of deep piety, but that alone proved insufficient in the end.

This parable is the second of four parables that Jesus gave in Matthew 24:45—25:46. All four depict two groups in the church. The first three parables have a significant delay that tests the character of those waiting. Since at least the 1840s, God’s people have been waiting for Jesus to return. The delay has caused many to doubt His promise to return; many have renounced their faith. These parables illustrate that those who continue to trust Jesus’ promises will not be disappointed in the end.

One interesting aspect of this parable is that both the wise and foolish virgins “slumbered and slept” (v. 5) until midnight, when the call to meet the bridegroom woke them. Even the wise who brought the extra oil were unable to stay awake. Midnight signifies the spiritual darkness that will cover the world in the last days—“the darkest period of this earth’s history” (Ellen White, Christ’s Object Lessons [1900], 414). The sleeping virgins represent a sleeping church in the final moments before Jesus returns.

As the women awoke to the call to join the wedding procession, they realized they needed to trim their lamps so they would once again burn brightly after being unattended for such a long time. Sadly, it was impossible at this critical hour to share the remaining oil, for each of the wise had only enough for herself. When the emergency hit, it was too late to prepare. The crisis only revealed what they had lacked all along. What we will do in the crisis is determined by how we prepare today.

This parable ends on a sad note as the foolish return to the wedding feast after trying to buy more oil. They hear the devastating words uttered: “I do not know you” (v. 12). They had enough of a relationship with the bridegroom for them to at least join the procession, but in the end, the relationship was revealed to be superficial, lacking real depth and commitment.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`The women carried their reserve supply of oil in special vessels. In what ways can we have the Holy Spirit in reserve? How can we apply this principle to our lives?`