---
title:  A Painful Delay
date:   04/10/2023
---

### inVite

Jesus is the bridegroom in the parable. He longs to be united to His bride, the church, you. There is nothing Jesus wants more than to take His children to heaven. This delay is something that pains God’s heart, perhaps more than it pains us. This week’s passage uses the example of a wedding celebration to illustrate the struggles the waiting church faces. No one likes a delayed wedding. Guests get restless, the groom gets fidgety, and the bride becomes fretful. Waiting for a long-anticipated event can be torture. That’s why the parable of the ten virgins illustrates the emotional upheaval the church faces so well. Waiting is hard for everyone.

The misinterpretation of the Bible resulted in a painful disappointment for the waiting church in 1844. The events of October 22, which have come to be known as the Great Disappointment, splintered the Millerite movement. They had an understanding of Scripture, but when their faith met test and trial, it was not rooted deeply enough to hold them, and they gave up hope in Jesus’ soon coming.

Just like in Matthew 25, the Millerites needed extra oil for their lamps after they had waited until their darkest hour—their midnight. From their experience, we can see that the oil is not transferable. When the crisis hits, nobody can borrow trust in God from a friend. Everybody must live out their own faith. Jesus freely offers salvation to all, but He expects each of us to individually surrender to Him and develop the character of Christ in our lives. Just like Jesus had a role in salvation that He alone could fill, we too must play our own parts: we must surrender all to Christ and allow Him to work freely in our lives. The character that has been transformed by the Holy Spirit (Rom. 8:13) is not something that can be shared with others. We can share His love and be a light to the world in this dark time, but character is not transferable. Soon the cry, “Behold, the bridegroom is coming” (Matt. 25:6) will go out to the world. As the waiting and working church, we need to be abiding in Christ daily in the here and now so we’re ready when He comes. We can only be prepared through the oil of the of the Holy Spirit daily filling our hearts and shaping our characters.

While the ten virgins slept, nobody could see any difference between the wise and the foolish. The difference was discovered only when the crisis came. How many of us in church look fine on the outside but lack the personal work of the Holy Spirit in our daily lives? Perhaps the real crisis happens before the emergency. Perhaps times of normality and even prosperity are the most hazardous. Now, while things are still a little bit normal, is the time to let the Holy Spirit into every corner of our lives so that when peoples’ characters are revealed, the living, indwelling Christ is seen in us.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How do you think Jesus feels about being perceived as late for His own celebration?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`