---
title:  What Jesus Felt About People
date:   22/08/2020
---

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

John 4:7–30, 39–42; Matthew 15:21–28; 2 Thessalonians 1:1–4; Romans 15:7; 1 Peter 3:15.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “But keep the Lord Christ holy in your hearts. Always be ready to answer everyone who asks you to explain about the hope you have” (1 Peter 3:15, ERV).

THE MORE WE STUDY JESUS’ LIFE, the more we are surprised by His skill to accept people and make them feel that they have worth. True, Jesus scolds the religious leaders of His day. But Jesus also gladly accepts people who fight against sin. Jesus accepts people who feel awful guilt and have given up hope in life. Jesus gives them His grace. Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. Jesus gives His grace to the worst sinners. His forgiveness is deep. It goes deeper than their sins. Jesus’ love has no limits.

Jesus has no pride in His heart. He does not behave as if He is better than anyone. He sees in every person someone that God made. Yes, humans are fallen, but Jesus came to save them from sin. No one is too far away for His love to reach. Jesus shows respect to everyone He meets. He causes people to want to join His kingdom because He believes in people. Their lives are changed by His life because He cares for them so deeply. So, people become what He believes they can become.

In this week’s lesson, we will explore more deeply Jesus’ thoughts and feelings about people. We will learn how to  live this way in our own lives.
