---
title:  HEARTS THAT ARE OPEN TO THE GOOD NEWS
date:   23/08/2020
---

`Read Jesus’ conversation with the Samaritan woman in John 4:7–30, 39–42. How does this conversation show the truth that all types of people are open to the Good News, even in places we do not expect?`

Samaria is the last place that Jesus’ followers expect to find anyone ready to accept the Good News. The Samaritans always fought with the Jews about correct teachings and worship. This disagreement went on for many years. Hundreds of years before, the Samaritans wanted to help build the temple in Jerusalem. But the Jews did not let them. Why not? The Samaritans married wives who worshiped false gods. Also, the Samaritans had wrong beliefs about religion. So, the Jews refused their help. Because of this, the Samaritans built their own temple on Mount Gerizim. No wonder Jesus’ followers are more than ready to skip going to Samaria to share the Good News!

Jesus sees in Samaria what His followers do not see: hearts open to the Good News. John’s story about the Samaritan woman at the well starts with these words: “ ‘So he left Judea and went back to Galilee. On the way to Galilee, he had to go through [into] the country of Samaria’ ” (John 4:3, 4, ERV). Jesus “had to” go into Samaria because the Holy Spirit told Him about people there who were open to the Good News. When the Holy Spirit opens our eyes, our vision changes. We see all the wonderful things that are possible where other people see only trouble.

`Read Acts 8:4, 5, 14. What happens in Acts because of Jesus’ visit to Samaria and the work He does there?`

Jesus’ followers wanted to pass by Samaria without giving the Samaritans the chance to know about the Good News. Jesus sees what His followers do not see. Jesus understands that the Holy Spirit helps the woman to be willing to accept the Good News. She gives her life to Jesus. It is a miracle that changes the lives of many people in that city. We will not always see fast or big changes happen from the work we do to share Jesus. But we must share the Good News with people anyway. We must plant the seeds of truth in their hearts. Then later on, when the seeds grow, these people will bring other people with them into God’s kingdom.
