---
title:  A HEART CHANGE
date:   24/08/2020
---

Our thoughts and feelings often can change people’s lives for the better. A mean and nasty spirit will push people away from you. They often will not want to hear anything you have to say, even if you share the truth.

But thinking good things about other people causes people to want to be with us. Kind words and acts help friendships to grow. Jesus makes this rule plain and clear when He says, “ ‘I no longer call you servants, because servants don’t know what their master is doing. But now I call you friends, because I have told you everything that my Father told me’ ” (John 15:15, ERV). Friends accept each other, even if they make mistakes. Friends freely share with each other their joys and sorrows.

`Read Matthew 15:21–28 and Mark 14:6–9. These verses tell us about two women who are very different. Jesus does not act the same with both women. He is gentle with one woman. But He does not pay attention to the other woman at first. What do you see in each story that shows you that Jesus tries to save each woman and build her trust in Him?`

The woman in Matthew 15 is a Canaanite. Jesus does not give her what she wants at first. But she continues to ask Him to help her. This causes her faith to grow. In the end, Jesus gives the woman what she wants. Then Jesus says something so surprising. No Jewish religious leader at the time would say this to a suffering Canaanite woman. Jesus says to her in front of everyone, “ ‘Woman, you have much faith’ ” (Matthew 15:28, NLV). Jesus praises the Canaanite woman’s faith. He says one of the best things a religious teacher could say to someone searching for truth. The woman’s heart must have been filled with joy! For sure, Jesus’ words changed her life in a big way.

The woman who washes Jesus’ feet with expensive perfume is a Jew. She also is a woman that other people look down on. They do not think well of her at all because of her past. She has made many mistakes and sinned often. But Jesus forgave her. He changed her and made her new again. When other people talk bad about her, Jesus praises her actions. He says, “ ‘For sure, I tell you, wherever this Good News is preached in all the world, this woman will be remembered for what she has done’ ” (Mark 14:9, NLV).
