---
title: 'Sharing The Truth In Love'
date: 25/08/2020
---

Friendship by itself does not win people to Jesus. We may have many friends. Friends are people we enjoy being with. They also enjoy being with us. But what if we never tell our friends what Jesus means to us? Or let them know how He changed our lives? Then our friendships will not help anyone find everlasting life. Sure, we may be fun to be around. But God asks us to be more than that because friendship is not enough to bring people to Jesus. Worse, unkind words and feelings can drive people away from Jesus.

Paul tells us to say “the truth in love” (Ephesians 4:15, KJV). Friendship grows when we agree with people as much as possible. Friendship also grows when we show people that we accept them and praise them when they do something good. It is important that we make a habit of looking for the good in people. We must not look for the bad.

`Read 2 Thessalonians 1:1–4. Make a list of some of the things that Paul praises the Thessalonians for.`

There are some people who love to look for things that are wrong with other people. They feel joy when they can find something wrong that a person has done. It makes them feel better to think about the mistakes other people make!

Paul is different. He looks for the good in the churches he serves. Yes, Paul shows the churches their mistakes. Paul does not accept sin. But Paul wants to build up the churches that he started. One way that Paul does this is to talk about what the churches do right.

Ellen G. White also tells us that good friendships are important. “We must empty our hearts of pride. Then we must be kind and full of pity for other people. We must be nice to them and have tender hearts. If we do this, one hundred people will join the church where there is only one person who joins it now.”—Testimonies for the Church, volume 9, page 189, adapted.

`Think about Ellen G. White’s quotation above. What will happen if the heart of every member in your church is kind, sweet, and full of mercy? What will people say about your church? Look into your heart. How can you do better in showing God’s love to other people?`
