---
title:  THE BIBLE REASON FOR ACCEPTING PEOPLE AS THEY ARE
date:   26/08/2020
---

`Read Romans 15:7 and Ephesians 4:32. As these verses show us, what is the reason for accepting other people as they are? What does it mean to have a heart that accepts other people?`

In Romans 15:7 and Ephesians 4:32, Paul talks about the important rules that explain why we should accept each other. Jesus forgives and accepts each one of us. So, how can we refuse to forgive and accept each other? Because Jesus accepts us, we can accept each other, even if we have made mistakes or are not perfect.

Think hard about what this means. Think about who you really are. Think about some of the things you have done and are fighting against right now. Maybe these are things that only you know about. But you are scared at the thought about what will happen if other people know.

By your faith, Jesus accepts you anyway. He knows  about all the things in your life that other people may not know anything about. Yes, He knows all of that and accepts you anyway. Not because of any good you have done. But because of His holy life and good works. Knowing all this, how should you think and feel about other people?

Accepting people means that we accept them as they are. We accept them with all their sins and bad habits. Why? Because God made them as copies of Himself. Because Jesus died for us “while we were still [anyway] sinners” (Romans 5:8, ERV) and “brought us back to God” (Romans 5:10, NLV).

First, we must build an accepting, caring friendship with someone. Then we need to share Bible truth with them in a loving way. If we do not do this, then we do not really love our friends. As friends, we care enough to share life-changing, everlasting truths with our friends.

Did Jesus say to His followers to “do whatever you want. It is all right. I will accept you anyway”? No. Jesus made it clear that “Even if you made mistakes, I will forgive you and give you power to change.” When we share Bible truth in Jesus’ spirit and with loving hearts, we will win hearts to Jesus and change lives.

`How can we accept people and, at the same time, not accept their bad behavior or sin?`
