---
title: 'God Asks Us To Share The Truth In Love'
date: 27/08/2020
---

Jesus did not fail to share the truth in love. If He had failed to share it, then that would not have been love. Love always wants the best for another person. There is no disagreement between love and truth. So, we must share the truth in a kind way with no pride in our hearts. When we do that, we show love. Jesus says, “ ‘I am the way, the truth, and the life’ ” (John 14:6, ERV). Jesus is the only way for us to be saved (Acts 4:12). Jesus’ mercy and loving-favor save us so that we can know His truth and live His life. Truth without love leads to obedience without any real spiritual life. “Love” without truth leads to a religion of feelings that cannot save you. That is why truth always must be shared in love. Then truth can lead us to a real Christian experience that gives us the true reason to live.

`Read 1 Peter 3:15; 2 Timothy 4:2; and Titus 3:4, 5. How important is it for our hearts to be empty of pride when we share Bible truth? What words in these verses show us the answer?`

The New Testament writers never put love above truth. The writers mix love and truth in a beautiful way, and mercy with the law, and being kind with being honest. Peter tells Christians to “Always be ready to answer everyone who asks you to explain about the hope you have” (1 Peter 3:15, ERV). You need to know what you believe and why you believe it so you can convince other people about your beliefs. But we can do this only if our hearts are empty of pride.

Paul tells Timothy to “Preach the word. Be ready to serve God in good times and bad. Correct people’s mistakes. Warn them. Encourage them with words of hope. Be very patient as you do these things. Teach them carefully” (2 Timothy 4:2, NIrV). Paul tells Titus that God saves us because He is kind and loving. That is why we have new life in Him (Titus 3:5).

God also asks us to share the truth in love with a heart empty of pride. Our Lord has an end-time message for the people living on this earth. The Lord invites us to join Him in sharing His truth in love.

`What if someone asks you, “Why are you a Christian?” What will you answer, and why?`
