---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 28/08/2020
---

Jesus is as gentle as a shepherd. He is as loving as a parent. His mercy cannot be matched by anything. Jesus is our loving Savior. He shows us His blessings in the most attractive way. Jesus does not only want to tell us about His blessings for us. But He also wants us to want them with all our hearts. As His servants, we must talk about heaven’s Gift: Jesus. The wonderful love of Jesus will melt hearts. His love will do what talking only about teachings and Bible truth cannot do. “Your God says, ‘Comfort, comfort my people.’ ‘Zion, you have good news to tell. Go up on a high mountain and shout the good news. Jerusalem, you have good news to tell. Don’t be afraid; speak loudly. Tell this news to all the cities of Judah: “Look, here is your God! . . . Like [the same as] a good shepherd, he takes care of his people. He gathers [holds] them like lambs in his arms.” ’ Isaiah 40:1, 9–11 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 826, 827, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. It is sad that some people try to feel better by talking about the mistakes other people make. How can we be sure not to fall into this same trap?`

`2. A friend of yours comes back from a funeral. He says to you, “I am so glad my aunt is up in heaven looking down at me. It makes me feel so good.” From what we learned this week about how to share the truth, how will you answer?`

`3. “The act of looking for evil in other people causes evil in the ones who look for it. When we think about the mistakes of other people, we are changed. We become the same as them. But when we look at Jesus and talk about His love and perfect life, we become changed. Then we start to become the same as Jesus is. When we think about the beautiful holy life Jesus lived, we shall become holy and pure in heart. We shall live with God. When we live with God, a light shines from our lives that brightens the life of everyone who is connected with us.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers, page 479, adapted.`
