---
title:  Meeting in Galilee
date:  22/12/2024
---

`Read John 21:1–19. What crucial truths are revealed here, especially about God’s grace—and human humility?`

John 20 ends with the purpose of the book, which would be the logical place to conclude, but there is one more chapter. Chapter 21 begins with some of the disciples back in Galilee, with Peter suggesting a night on the lake. It looks as though old times have returned, and the disciples are back to their old trade, fishing. But they catch nothing that night.

In the morning, a mysterious stranger on the shore tells them to cast their net on the right side of the boat. They then catch so many fish that they cannot pull in the net. It was like the beginning of their ministry with Jesus (see Luke 5:1–11). John immediately recognizes Jesus and tells Peter, who immediately jumps in the water and swims ashore.

Jesus asks Peter three questions, all concerning love for his Master. Before the Crucifixion, Peter insisted that he would lay down his life for Jesus (John 13:37). That is when Jesus predicted his threefold denial (John 13:38). At this meeting in Galilee, Peter does not make himself the reference point but rather makes it Jesus: “ ‘Lord, you know everything; you know that I love you’ ” (John 21:17, ESV).

Some note that Jesus uses the verb agapaō, which means to love, in questioning Peter (except for the last time), and that Peter always responds with phileō, which means to love, but just as a friend. The implication is that Peter has not achieved the higher kind of love.

Actually, Peter’s response is focused on humility. With Peter’s failure ever before him, it is more likely that he humbly uses a “lower term,” daring not to claim too much for himself. And it is this humility that Jesus affirms, and which becomes crucial in restoring Peter to ministry. No question, humility is one of the greatest qualifications for ministry because the focus then becomes Jesus Christ and not self.

Peter’s restoration and role as leader in the early church is one of the strongest evidences that Jesus rose from the dead. It would be hard to explain Peter’s prominence if Jesus had not, in the presence of the other disciples, restored him to ministry.

`Why is humility so key in anyone seeking to know the Lord? In light of the Cross, what do any of us have to be proud of?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Peter, who still had much of his old love for boats and fishing, proposed that they should go out upon the sea and cast their nets. In this plan all were ready to join. . . . So they went out in their boat, but they caught nothing. All night they toiled, without success. . . .\
A stranger standing upon the beach . . . accosted them with the question, “Children, have ye any meat?” When they answered, “No,” “He said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes.”\
John recognized the stranger, and exclaimed to Peter, “It is the Lord.” Peter was so elated and so glad that in his eagerness he cast himself into the water and was soon standing by the side of his Master.—The Desire of Ages, p. 810.

When, the third time, Christ said to Peter, “Lovest thou me?” the probe reached the soul center. Self-judged, Peter fell upon the Rock, saying, “Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee.” . . .\
Some assert that if a soul stumbles and falls, he can never regain his position; but the case before us contradicts this. . . . In committing to his stewardship the souls for whom He had given His life, Christ gave to Peter the strongest evidence of His confidence in his restoration. . . .\
Peter was now humble enough to understand the words of Christ, and without further questioning, the once restless, boastful, self-confident disciple became subdued and contrite. He followed his Lord indeed—the Lord he had denied. The thought that Christ had not denied and rejected him was to Peter a light and comfort and blessing.—Conflict and Courage, p. 322.

We must behold Christ. It is ignorance of Him that makes men so uplifted in their own righteousness. When we contemplate His purity and excellence, we shall see our own weakness and poverty and defects as they really are. We shall see ourselves lost and hopeless, clad in garments of self-righteousness, like every other sinner. . . .\
The nearer we come to Jesus and the more clearly we discern the purity of His character, the more clearly we shall discern the exceeding sinfulness of sin and the less we shall feel like exalting ourselves. Those whom heaven recognizes as holy ones are the last to parade their own goodness. The apostle Peter became a faithful minister of Christ, and he was greatly honored with divine light and power; he had an active part in the upbuilding of Christ’s church; but Peter never forgot the fearful experience of his humiliation; his sin was forgiven; yet well he knew that for the weakness of character which had caused his fall only the grace of Christ could avail. He found in himself nothing in which to glory.—Christ’s Object Lessons, pp. 159, 160.