---
title:  Keeping Your Eyes on Jesus
date:  23/12/2024
---

`Read John 21:20–22. What question led Peter down a wrong path? How did Jesus straighten the path?`

Jesus had just restored Peter to ministry and told him, “Follow me” (John 21:19). It was probably an actual physical following of Jesus down the beach. And that is because Peter turns and sees John following Jesus as well, and he inquires about John. “ ‘But Lord, what about this man?’ ” (John 21:21, NKJV).

In restoring Peter to ministry, Jesus had predicted Peter’s manner of death (John 21:18). It seems Peter was curious about John’s death, as well. Jesus redirects Peter’s attention instead to the issue of following Him, not worrying about what will happen to another disciple.

`Read John 21:23–25. How was Jesus’ statement misunderstood? How did the apostle John correct that misunderstanding?`

People misunderstood what Jesus meant when He said, “ ‘If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me!’ ” (John 21:22, ESV). They thought it meant that Jesus would come back before John died. As time passed and John grew old, it would become a crisis if he were to die (which, of course, he did) and Jesus had not returned. John corrects this misconception by indicating that it was a matter of Jesus’ will, not a prophecy of what would happen.

The idea of focusing on Jesus, instead of on other people, is a powerful lead into the rest of the week’s lesson. Jesus, and Jesus alone, is our Savior. People will inevitably disappoint you, perhaps even hurt you, as well.

The truths covered for Tuesday through Thursday will pick up on the theme of understanding the Word of God, with the aim of knowing and following Jesus, who alone should be our Master and Guide—regardless of the help, counsel, and guidance that others might give us.

`How often have others, whom you might have looked up to, disap­pointed you? What lessons, however hard, did you learn from that experience?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Jesus walked alone with Peter, for there was something which He wished to communicate to him only. . . . That he might be strengthened for the final test of his faith, the Saviour opened to him his future. He told him that after living a life of usefulness, when age was telling upon his strength, he would indeed follow his Lord. . . .\
Jesus thus made known to Peter the very manner of his death; He even foretold the stretching forth of his hands upon the cross. Again He bade His disciple, “Follow Me.” Peter was not disheartened by the revelation. He felt willing to suffer any death for his Lord.\
Heretofore Peter had known Christ after the flesh, as many know Him now; but he was no more to be thus limited. He knew Him no more as he had known Him in his association with Him in humanity. He had loved Him as a man, as a heaven-sent teacher; he now loved Him as God. He had been learning the lesson that to him Christ was all in all. Now he was prepared to share in his Lord’s mission of sacrifice. When at last brought to the cross, he was, at his own request, crucified with his head downward. He thought it too great an honor to suffer in the same way as his Master did.—The Desire of Ages, p. 815.

As Peter walked beside Jesus, he saw that John was following. A desire came over him to know his future, and he “saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do? Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? follow thou Me.” Peter should have considered that his Lord would reveal to him all that it was best for him to know. It is the duty of everyone to follow Christ, without undue anxiety as to the work assigned to others. In saying of John, “If I will that he tarry till I come,” Jesus gave no assurance that this disciple should live until the Lord’s second coming. He merely asserted His own supreme power, and that even if He should will this to be so, it would in no way affect Peter’s work. The future of both John and Peter was in the hands of their Lord.—The Desire of Ages, p. 816.

We shall find that we must let loose of all hands except the hand of Jesus Christ. Friends will prove treacherous and will betray us. . . . But we may trust our hand in the hand of Christ amid darkness and peril.\
The only way in which men will be able to stand firm in the conflict is to be rooted and grounded in Christ. They must receive the truth as it is in Jesus. And it is only as the truth is presented thus that it can meet the wants of the soul. The preaching of Christ crucified, Christ our righteousness, is what satisfies the soul’s hunger.—Last Day Events, pp. 150, 151.