---
title:  “Walltogether” Now
date:  21/10/2019
---

#### inTerpret

What is so amazing about chapter 3 is that they are implementing what the Adventist church calls Total Member Involvement. It seems that whenever the Lord moves, He involves everyone. For example, people from far regions such as Jericho are mentioned in verse 7; the tradespeople such as goldsmiths and perfumers are mentioned in verse 8; and the daughters of Shallum are mentioned in verse 12. Regardless of geography, profession, or gender, the rebuilding of Jerusalem incorporated everyone.

Nehemiah, when designating sections of the wall, did not assign the sections randomly. In verse 26, the Nethinims (temple servants) built near the temple, the place where they worked. In verses 1, 10, 23, and 28-30, the groups were building near their houses. This gave the groups less anxiety, more convenience, less time wasted, and a form of ownership of the project, for they had to see it every day. Their respective families would then be involved and the work would be more synergistic as well as efficient.

The work was thoroughly organized. Every person knew where they were in relation to the whole project. In complete harmony and teamwork, the city reflected an orchestra. Sometimes all the instruments played in unison, while sometimes only some, and at other times only one. This concerted action was directed under the guidance of the conductor.

In the case of God’s work, the leader conducts under the Holy Spirit, who organizes the orchestra to play the music of God’s will. When all are in tune and cooperative, the music is beautiful.

``