---
title:  The Organized God
date:  23/10/2019
---

#### inVite

“I’m against organized religion.”

“Why?”

“Why?!Because religion does all these bad things in the name of religion.” “Then that abuse is indeed bad. But a religion should be judged on the merits of its ideal teachings, not its abuses, don’t you think?”

“I think I just don’t like the concept of organized anything.”

“Well, aren’t corporations organized? Governments? The local sports team?!” No, God doesn’t have all of heaven organized into containers all labelled in corresponding colors with alphabetical and chronological legends. But He is indeed an organized God. One need only read the Pentateuch, the genealogies, and chapters like Nehemiah 3, to see that God loves lists, records, and registries. But they do not exist merely for order’s sake as though God had an organizational disorder. Rather all things are organized for a purpose. Just as corporate organizations are arranged in an organized manner for some objective, namely profit, spiritual organizations are also organized for the purpose of fulfilling the Great Commission. Sure, organizations have neglected their original purpose and abused their organizational structure, but while this should never happen at all, it is not unique to church organizations.

The true church of the Bible as identified in Revelation 12, keeps the Ten Commandments and has the spirit of prophecy (Rev. 12:17; 19:10); it is also a global organization (Rev. 14:6). And who is the CEO of this organization? Jesus Christ Himself.

“For God is not the author of confusion but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints… Let all things be done decently and in order” (1 Cor. 14:33, 40).

``