---
title: The Male Sheep And The Goat
date: 2/23/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read the dream in Daniel 8. What is this dream about? How does it show us many of the same things we have seen in Daniel 2 and Daniel 7?`

As we saw, Daniel 2 and Daniel 7 show us the kingdoms that will control the earth. Daniel 8 shows us the same thing. But Daniel 8 uses new word pictures. These word pictures show us the animals used in God’s temple on earth. So, we see a male sheep and a goat. Both animals are connected with God’s end-time work of cleaning His temple in heaven. In the Old Testament, Israel’s holy leaders used male sheep and goats in their worship of God. The holy leaders gave the male sheep and goats to God as offerings. When is the only time that we read about male sheep and goats together in the worship plan for God’s temple? During the time when God cleans His temple from sin. So, those two animals help us think about God’s work to remove sin from heaven’s temple in the end times.

In the dream, Daniel sees a male sheep with two horns. The sheep pushes in three different directions: west, north, and south (Daniel 8:4). The three directions show that the male sheep grows very powerful: “No animal could stop the ram [male sheep], and no one could save the other animals. The ram did whatever it wanted, and it became very powerful” (Daniel 8:4, ERV). The angel in Daniel’s dream explains that the male sheep is a word picture for the kingdom of Media-Persia. The three directions show us the three kingdoms that Media-Persia beat in war.

Next, Daniel sees a goat with a big horn. This goat is the kingdom of Greece. The big horn shows us King Alexander (Daniel 8:21). Do you see that the goat moves so fast that “his feet did not touch the ground” (Daniel 8:5, ICB)? That shows us that Alexander’s kingdom grew fast. That is why Daniel 7 shows us Alexander’s army as a winged leopard. Daniel 8 shows us what happens next to the goat (Greece): “But after he became strong, his big horn broke off” (Daniel 8:8, ERV). Then four horns grow out of the goat’s head. What do all of these horns show? The big horn shows us that Alexander will die when he is young. He dies in Babylon in June of 323 b.c. Then his kingdom is divided up. His four generals (the four horns) take control of it.

The goat moves so fast that his feet do not touch the ground.
