---
title:  The Little Horn’S Government
date:   24/2/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 8:8–12 carefully. How does the little horn move? Why is this information important?`

Yesterday, we saw four horns move in four different directions. The Bible says the little horn comes from one of them. One what? One of the four directions? Or from one of the four horns? (We saw that the four horns show King Alexander’s four generals.) The Hebrew language shows us that the little horn comes from one of the four directions. These four directions also are named the four winds of heaven. The little horn rises after the Greek Kingdom. So, we easily see that the little horn is Rome. First, the little horn shows us the kingdom of Rome. Then the little horn shows us the Roman Catholic Church. “So, the little horn shows us Rome. First, Daniel saw the horn as the kingdom of Rome. It fought against Jews and Christians in New Testament times. Then Daniel saw the little horn as the Roman Catholic Church. Daniel saw this power continue in the future to our time.”—The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 4, page 841, adapted.

The Bible shows us that the little horn first moves across the earth. It “grew to the south and to the east and toward the beautiful land of Israel” (Daniel 8:9, NIrV). These three directions show the three areas on the earth that Rome took under its control.

Then the little horn moves toward heaven. In this way, the little horn behaves the same as the little horn in Daniel 7. (1) Both horns are little in the beginning (Daniel 7:8; Daniel 8:9). (2) Both horns become powerful later on (Daniel 7:20; Daniel 8:9). (3) Both horns hurt people (Daniel 7:21, 25; Daniel 8:10, 24). (4) Both horns brag and do not respect God (Daniel 7:8, 20, 25; Daniel 8:10, 11, 25). (5) Both horns hurt God’s special people (Daniel 7:25; Daniel 8:24). (6) Both horns work for a certain time (Daniel 7:25; Daniel 8:13, 14). (7) Both horns continue until the end times (Daniel 7:25, 26; Daniel 8:17, 19). (8) Both horns will be destroyed by God (Daniel 7:11, 26; Daniel 8:25). As we saw, the little horn in Daniel 7 shows us the Roman Catholic Church. The little horn in Daniel 8 also shows us this same power. So, in Daniel 2, Daniel 7, and in Daniel 8, the final power on earth is Rome: first as the kingdom of Rome, then as the Roman Catholic Church.

The little horn moves toward heaven.
