---
title: The Attack On God’S Temple In Heaven 
date: 2/18/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the little horn’s actions in Daniel 8:10–12. What does the little horn do in these verses?`

The words “heaven’s army” (Daniel 8:10, ERV) and “the stars in the sky” (Daniel 8:10, NIrV) are Old Testament word pictures. They show God’s people. Israel is named “the armies of the Lord” (Exodus 12:41, ERV). Daniel also says God’s loyal people are the same as shining stars (Daniel 12:3). So, we can see that Daniel 8:10 is not talking about the little horn’s war against the angels in heaven. The little horn’s war is against God’s people. They are “citizens of heaven” (Philippians 3:20, NIrV). Yes, several Roman kings killed hundreds of Christians. But that is not what Daniel 8:10 talks about. Daniel 8:10 shows us the little horn’s work when it is the Roman Catholic Church. So, the special message, in Daniel 8:10 shows us the church’s war against God’s people in history.

Also, Daniel 8:11 talks about a “Prince.” Daniel tells us this Prince also is named “‘the chosen king’” (Daniel 9:25, ERV), “Michael your prince” (Daniel 10:21, KJV; read also Daniel 12:1). Who is this Michael? It can only be Jesus. He is the Prince of the “stars in the sky” (Daniel 8:10, NIrV). As we just saw, these stars are a word picture for God’s people. Michael also is our Holy Leader in heaven. Daniel 8 shows us that the little horn, or Roman Catholic Church, tries to replace Jesus’ work in heaven.

In Daniel 8:11, the little horn stops the daily sacrifices, or burnt gifts, that were offered to God. In the Old Testament temple, these gifts were word pictures. They showed the work Jesus does to save sinners. He forgives sin. He will clean sin from the temple too. So, Daniel shows that the Roman Catholic Church tries to replace Jesus’ work in heaven with work done by holy leaders on earth. In this way, the little horn removes Jesus’ work in heaven and throws down His work for us in heaven’s temple. “Truth was thrown down to the ground. The little horn did these things and was very successful [had success]” (ERV). Jesus says that He is the Truth (John 14:6). The Bible is the truth too (John 17:17). The Roman Catholic Church did not allow the Bible to be written in the language of the people in the Middle Ages. Only the church was allowed to say what the Bible meant. The church also made their teachings more important than the Bible.

God’s loyal people are the same as shining stars.
