---
title: The 2,300 Days
date: 2/27/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 8:13. What question does one of the holy ones ask in this verse? How does the holy one’s question help us understand the answer in the next verse?`

When do the 2,300 evenings and mornings happen? First, let us remember some things about Daniel’s dream before we answer the question. Daniel sees the male sheep and the goat. Next, Daniel sees the little horn make war. Then Daniel hears a holy one ask a question: “ ‘How long will it take for the things seen in the dream to happen?’ ” (Daniel 8:13, NLV). We must not limit the time for everything to happen to only the little horn’s time in power. Daniel’s dream includes everything from the male sheep to the actions of the little horn. So, the time for things to happen will take a long time in history.

Now we can understand the holy one’s question better. How long will it take for the things seen in the dream to happen? Or, how long will the male sheep (kingdom of Media-Persia), the goat (kingdom of Greece), and the little horn (the kingdom of Rome and the Roman Catholic Church) be in power? Another angel answers: “ ‘It will take 2,300 evenings and mornings. Then the temple will be made holy again’ ” (Daniel 8:14, NIrV). This special message about time is very long because it starts during the kingdom of Media-Persia. It includes the kingdom of Greece, the kingdom of Rome, and the Roman Catholic Church during the Middle Ages too. So, the 2,300 days includes hundreds and thousands of years. The year-day rule in Numbers 14:34 and Ezekiel 4:5, 6 shows us that the 2,300 evenings and mornings equal 2,300 years. If we do not use the year-day rule to understand this time message, what will happen? Then the 2,300 days will add up to only six real years. That is not enough time for all these things in Daniel’s dream to happen.

When do the 2,300 years start? Daniel’s dream does not give us this very important piece of information. But Daniel 9 tells us. We will study Daniel 9 next week. After we know when the 2,300 years start, we can figure out when this time will end.

How long will the male sheep, the goat, and the little horn be in power? The angel answers: 2,300 evenings and mornings.
