---
title: Additional Thought
date: 2/21/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:**

Here is a chart that helps us understand what we studied so far in Daniel 2, 7, and 8. What does this chart tell us about God’s cleaning the temple in heaven?

| | | |

|---|---|---|

| Daniel 2 | Daniel 7 | Daniel 8 |

| Babylon | Babylon | ––– |

| Media-Persia | Media-Persia | Media-Persia |

| Greece | Greece | Greece |

| Rome | Rome | Rome |

| Roman Catholic Church | Roman Catholic  Church | Roman Catholic Church |

| —–– | God’s work as Judge in heaven | God cleans the temple in heaven |

| Second Coming <br/> [Jesus’ kingdom is the stone that is not cut by human hands] | Second Coming <br/> [God’s people get the kingdom] | Second Coming <br/> [God destroys the kingdoms on earth] |



The chart shows us that these chapters give the same information. We see the same kingdoms rise to power. Then we see God’s work as Judge in Daniel 7. His work starts after the little horn works for 1,260 years (a.d. 538–1798). The little horn’s work during this time shows us the Roman Catholic Church in the Middle Ages. God’s work as Judge in Daniel 7 happens at the same time that Jesus cleans heaven’s temple. The cleaning happens after the little horn’s power ends in Daniel 8. So, we see that God’s work as Judge in Daniel 7 leads to the end of earth’s history. God’s work as Judge is the same thing as cleaning heaven’s temple in Daniel 8. So, Daniel 7 and 8 show us the same thing in different ways. Both the cleaning of the temple and God’s work as Judge happen after the little horn makes war against God’s people for 1,260 years.

DISCUSSION QUESTION:

1.	How does the chart above show us that cleaning heaven’s temple is the same thing as God’s work as Judge in Daniel 7? Why must these two things happen after the 1,260 years that the little horn works and before God’s kingdom starts?

We see that God’s work as Judge in Daniel 7 leads to the end of this earth’s history.
