---
title:  The Godhead
date:  02/01/2019
---

Revelation begins with a greeting similar to the ones found in Paul’s letters. The book was sent ostensibly as a letter to the seven churches in Asia Minor in John’s day (see Rev. 1:11). However, Revelation was not written for them only, but for all generations of Christians throughout history.

`Read Revelation 1:4, 5 and Romans 1:7. What common greeting is found in both texts, and from whom is the greeting given?`

Both texts offer an epistolary greeting: “Grace and peace to you.” This phrase consists of the Greek greeting *charis* (“grace”) and the Hebrew greeting shalom (“peace,” “well-being”). As we can see from these texts, the Givers of grace and peace are the three Persons of the Godhead.

God the Father is identified as the One “who is and who was and who is to come” (see Rev. 1:8, Rev. 4:8, NKJV). This designation refers to the divine name Yahweh, “I AM WHO I AM” (Exod. 3:14, NKJV), referring to God’s eternal existence.

The Holy Spirit is referred to as “the seven Spirits” (compare with Rev. 4:5 and Rev. 5:6). In Scripture, seven is a number of fullness. “The seven Spirits” means the Holy Spirit is active in all seven churches. This image refers to the omnipresence of the Holy Spirit and His constant work among God’s people through history, enabling them to fulfill their calling.

Jesus Christ is identified by three titles: “the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler over the kings of the earth” (Rev. 1:5, NKJV). They refer to His death on the cross, His resurrection, and His reign in heaven. Then John states what Jesus has done: He “loved us and washed us from our sins in His own blood, and has made us kings and priests to His God and Father” (Rev. 1:5, 6, NKJV).

In the original Greek, He “loved us” refers to Christ’s ongoing love, which embraces the past, the present, and the future. The One who loves us has released us from our sins by His blood. In the Greek, the verb “released” refers to a completed act in the past: when Jesus died on the cross He provided a perfect atonement for our sins.

`Ephesians 2:6 and Philippians 3:20 describe the redeemed as citizens of heaven who are raised up and made to sit with Jesus in heavenly places. What might these texts mean, and how do we presently enjoy this glorious status in Christ as “kings and priests” (Rev. 1:6, NKJV) while still in this sin-cursed world? How should this answer impact how we live?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In Christ the world beheld the invisible God. “I am in the Father,” He said, “and the Father in Me.” “He that hath seen Me hath seen the Father.” “If ye had known Me, ye should have known My Father also: and from henceforth ye know Him, and have seen Him.” In all our acts of true devotion we fix our eye of faith upon our Advocate, who is standing between man and the eternal throne, waiting to meet our every effort and by His Spirit assist us to a more perfect knowledge of God.

The Lamb of God is represented before us as “in the midst of the throne” of God. He is the great ordinance by which man and God are united and commune together. Thus men are represented as sitting in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. This is the appointed place of meeting between God and humanity.—_Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers_, pp. 123, 124.

With all our sins and weaknesses, we are not cast aside as worthless. . . . The glory that rested upon Christ [at His baptism] is a pledge of the love of God for us. It tells us of the power of prayer—how the human voice may reach the ear of God, and our petition find acceptance in the courts of heaven. By sin, earth was cut off from heaven, and alienated from its communion; but Jesus has connected it again with the sphere of glory. His love has encircled man, and reached the highest heaven. The light which fell from the open portals upon the head of our Saviour will fall upon us as we pray for help to resist temptation. The voice which spoke to Jesus says to every believing soul, This is My beloved child, in whom I am well pleased. . . . Our Redeemer has opened the way so that the most sinful, the most needy, . . . may find access to the Father. All may have a home in the mansions which Jesus has gone to prepare.—_God’s Amazing Grace_, p. 83.

Do we believe with all the heart that Christ is soon coming and that we are now having the last message of mercy that is ever to be given to a guilty world? Is our example what it should be? Do we, by our lives and holy conversation, show to those around us that we are looking for the glorious appearing of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, who shall change these vile bodies and fashion them like unto His glorious body? I fear that we do not believe and realize these things as we should. Those who believe the important truths that we profess, should act out their faith. There is too much seeking after amusements and things to take the attention in this world; the mind is left to run too much upon dress, and the tongue is engaged too often in light and trifling conversation, which gives the lie to our profession, for our conversation is not in heaven, whence we look for the Saviour.—_Early Writings_, p. 111.
