---
title:  Further Thought
date:  07/11/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Fall of Jericho,” pp. 493–498, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“The deadly sin that led to Achan’s ruin had its root in covetousness, of all sins one of the most common and the most lightly regarded. . . .

“Achan acknowledged his guilt, but when it was too late for the confession to benefit himself. He had seen the armies of Israel return from Ai defeated and disheartened; yet he did not come forward and confess his sin. He had seen Joshua and the elders of Israel bowed to the earth in grief too great for words. Had he then made confession, he would have given some proof of true penitence; but he still kept silence. He had listened to the proclamation that a great crime had been committed, and had even heard its character definitely stated. But his lips were sealed. Then came the solemn investigation. How his soul thrilled with terror as he saw his tribe pointed out, then his family and his household! But still he uttered no confession, until the finger of God was placed upon him. Then, when his sin could no longer be concealed, he admitted the truth. How often are similar confessions made. There is a vast difference between admitting facts after they have been proved and confessing sins known only to ourselves and to God. Achan would not have confessed had he not hoped by so doing to avert the consequences of his crime. But his confession only served to show that his punishment was just. There was no genuine repentance for sin, no contrition, no change of purpose, no abhorrence of evil.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 496–498.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Discuss the implications of the tenth commandment (Exod. 20:17) in a world dominated by advertisements and consumerism. How can we practically distinguish between a want and a need, and why is that distinction important?`

`Read Daniel’s prayer in Daniel 9:4–19. Why is it significant that Daniel, in confessing Israel’s sins, kept on saying “we” did all these bad things, even though we have no record of Daniel himself ever doing evil?`

`Think about the question at the end of Thursday’s study. Why was the Israelites’ obedience to all the “statutes and judgments” so important to their witness? How does this same principle apply to our church today? That is, how much more effective would our witness be if we actually followed all that we have been given by God?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Upward Look, “True Love Cannot Be Hidden,” April 22, p. 126.\
To Be Like Jesus, “God’s Word and Love Will Open Hearts to Jesus,” November 27, p. 348.\