---
title:  A Kingdom That Cannot Be Destroyed
date:  12/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Hebrews 12:22–24; Daniel 7:9, 10, 13–22; Hebrews 12:26, 27; Psalm 15:5; Hebrews 13:15, 16.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “So we should be thankful because we have a kingdom that cannot be shaken [destroyed]. And because we are thankful, we should worship God in a way that will please him. We should do this with respect and fear [wonder]” (Hebrews 12:28, ERV).

THIS WEEK, we will study Hebrews 12:18–29. These verses are the most exciting and important part of Hebrews. We will learn many important ideas from Hebrews 12:18–29. These verses show us the idea that Paul started his letter with: God communicated to us by His Son. So, we need to pay careful attention to Jesus (Hebrews 1:1, 2; Hebrews 12:25). In Hebrews 12:22–24, Paul gives us a review of His most important ideas about Jesus: (1) Jesus is the One who brings the New Agreement from God to His people. (2) The blood of Jesus saves us. (3) The angels in heaven celebrate because Jesus is our High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader. Jesus is also our King. Finally, Hebrews 12:25–29 tells us that the time for God to Judge the earth is soon coming. Then God will destroy His enemies. But God will give favor and a kingdom to His people (Hebrews 12:28, 29).

Paul wants his readers to remember that God gave Jesus a kingdom (Daniel 7:9–14). So, Paul uses word pictures from Daniel 7 to help his readers understand this idea. Jesus will share His kingdom with His followers. The kingdom will “belong to them for ever and ever” (Daniel 7:18, NIrV).