---
title:  You Have Come To The Hill Of Zion 
date:  13/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What does Paul tell us in Hebrews 12:22–24?`

Paul says we come to the Hill of Zion. Thousands and thousands of angels are there. We come to Zion to celebrate with the angels. “But you have come to Mount [the very high hill named] Zion. You have come to the city of the living God. This is the heavenly [in heaven] Jerusalem. You have come to a joyful gathering [group] of angels. There are thousands and thousands of them” (Hebrews 12:22, NIrV). We come by faith in Jesus, who goes to God for us. At this celebration in heaven, we join God, Jesus, and the angels. There are so many angels! We cannot count them all. Jesus is the reason for the celebration. Paul says we “have come to the meeting of God’s firstborn children” (Hebrews 12:23 ERV). The first son born in a Jewish family had the most important place in the family and got special blessings. In the eyes of God, all of His children are the same as the first son who is born.

We are the “firstborn” because we share the blessings that God gives Jesus, His Firstborn Son (Hebrews 1:6). So, we do not come to Zion as guests. We come as citizens (compare with Philippians 3:20). As citizens, our names are written in the books of heaven (Exodus 32:32; Psalm 56:8; Daniel 12:1; Malachi 3:16; Luke 10:20; Revelation 13:8; Revelation 17:8). Paul also says that we will be perfect and holy. “The spirits of all those [people who are] right with God are there. They have been made perfect” (Hebrews 12:23, NLV). God is “the Father of spirits” (Hebrews 12:9, NIrV). “Spirits” is a word picture for humans.

The reason for the celebration is because God made Jesus our Priest, or Religious Leader, and King. We also celebrate the New Covenant that Jesus brings us from God. In Hebrews, Zion is the place where all these things happen. The quotes from three psalms, or songs, in Hebrews 1:5–14 show us that Jesus becomes our King on Zion (read Psalm 2:6, 7; Psalm 110:1, 2; Psalm 102:21–27). Zion is also the place where God makes Jesus our “priest forever” (Hebrews 5:6, ERV). This quote comes from Psalm 110:4. Psalm 110 also shows us that on Zion the Son is made our High Priest (Psalm 110:2). Finally, Paul shows us that when Jesus becomes our High Priest, He starts the New Agreement (Hebrews 7:11–22). So, Hebrews 12:22–24 shows us the celebration that happens after Jesus goes back to heaven.