---
title:  God, The Judge Of All People 
date:  14/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read about the celebration in Hebrews 12:23. If these verses really show us a celebration, why is God the Judge there? How can a judge be part of a celebration or a reason for it? (Read also Daniel 7:9, 10, 13–22 for the answer.)`

As we saw yesterday, Hebrews 12:22–24 shows us a celebration. The work God does as Judge in the future is part of this celebration. In His work as Judge, God examines the books in heaven. Then God makes His final decision: God gives His people the kingdom (Hebrews 12:28).

So, Hebrews shows us the work God does as Judge before the Second Coming. Daniel also saw this work. In a dream, Daniel shows us the court in heaven (Daniel 7). Then “the One Who has lived forever took His seat” as Judge (Daniel 7:9). God sits on a throne made from fire. Thousands of angels serve God (Daniel 7:10). Books are opened (Daniel 7:10). Then God decides in favor of His “holy people, and they received [got] the kingdom” (Daniel 7:22, ERV).

In Hebrews 12:22–29, we see “God, the judge of all people” (Hebrews 12:22, ERV). He is on the High Hill Named Zion. Another name for this place in heaven is Jerusalem. Around God are “thousands and thousands of” angels (Hebrews 12:22, NIrV). God uses books in His work as Judge. The names of His people are written in these books (Hebrews 12:23, ERV). This information shows us that God will decide in favor of His people.

Jesus has an important part in this work in the court in heaven (Hebrews 12:24). He is the One who brings the people of God to Zion. Zion is a name for the city of the New Jerusalem in heaven. The New Agreement allows Jesus to bring His people (Hebrews 12:22–24) to heaven. There, God will give His people the gift He promised them. God will give His people the kingdom (Hebrews 12:28).

So, Hebrews 12:23 shows us that the work that God does as our Judge really is good news. God will decide in favor of His people. God will show that His people are innocent of every wrong thing that Satan accuses them of doing. This decision will show that Satan loses, and God wins. Satan, the dragon, is the evil power that controls the awful kingdoms in Daniel 7. These animals are word pictures for kingdoms that hurt the people of God in the past. Revelation 13 shows us how Satan again will use the leaders on this earth to hurt the people of God in the end-times.