---
title:  The Day God Shakes The Earth And Sky 
date:  15/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Paul warns his readers to pay attention to what God says. They need to be careful to obey God because He is about to do something big. God warns, “ ‘Only once [one time] more I will shake the earth and the sky also’ ” (Hebrews 12:26, WE). Paul warns us to obey because God has not finished giving us the things that He promised us. Yes, Jesus is our High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader, and King in heaven. But we can choose to turn away from Him and be lost. So, we need to obey Him. We also need to pay attention because something important is about to happen.

`Compare Haggai 2:6–9, 20–22; Psalm 96:9, 10; Psalm 99:1; and Hebrews 12:26, 27. Why does God shake the earth and sky? What does this word picture show us?`

In the Old Testament, the shaking of the earth was a word picture for the coming of God Himself, who shows up to save His people. When Deborah and Barak fight against Sisera, God fights from heaven for them (Judges 5:20). The power of God is shown by a mighty earthquake. This earthquake shakes the earth and the mountains when God comes to help His people (Judges 5:4, 5). We see this same word picture all through the Old Testament when God shows up to free His people from their enemies (Psalm 68:7, 8; Psalm 60:2; Psalm 77:17, 18). So, a shaking shows us that the time comes for God to judge and show His control over the people on the earth. The prophets, or holy messengers, also show that God will shake the earth when He comes to punish evil people (Isaiah 13:13; Isaiah 24:18–23).

In Hebrews, the “shaking” of earth and sky also shows the time when God will destroy His enemies. God made this promise to Jesus when Jesus sat on His throne. God said to Jesus: “ ‘Sit at my right side until I put your enemies under your power [control]’ ” (Hebrews 1:13, ERV). Yes, Jesus beat the Satan, the enemy (Hebrews 2:14–16), when He sat on His throne (Hebrews 1:5–14). But the devil and the ones who hate Jesus must be destroyed in the future (Hebrews 10:11–14; 1 Corinthians 15:23–25).

God will destroy these enemies forever when He shakes the earth and sky. So, the shaking shows us that God will destroy the humans on this earth who hurt the people of God. God also will destroy the ones who control these leaders: Satan and his angels.