---
title:  A Kingdom That Cannot Be Destroyed 
date:  16/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw, God announces that He will “shake” the earth and sky. This word picture shows us that God will destroy His enemies. But some things will not be destroyed.

`Compare Psalm 15:5; Psalm 16:8; Psalm 21:7; Palm 62:2; Palm 112:6; and Hebrews 12:27. What things will stand strong and not be destroyed?`

Today, Hebrews 12:27 confuses many readers of modern Bibles. These modern Bibles say that God will “shake” the earth and the sky. So, many people think that the earth and sky will be gone forever. But the Bible shows us that God will make new skies and a new earth (Isaiah 65:17; Revelation 21:1–4). So, the “shaking” really shows us that God will make the earth clean and new again. God will not completely remove or destroy the earth.

What else will not be “shaken” or destroyed? The people of God will not be destroyed (1 Thessalonians 4:13–17; Philemon 3:20). The people of God will not be destroyed because they trust in God. The God who made them keeps them alive when they see Him at the Second Coming.

Do you see how in Hebrews the things that stand forever are connected with Jesus? Paul shows us this connection when he says, “ ‘Lord, you made the world in the beginning. The sky was made by your hands. These things will come to an end, but you will live on. They will all wear out like [the same as] clothes. You will fold up the world and the sky as if they were a blanket. They will not stay as they are now. But you will always be as you are now. The years of your life will never end’ ” (Hebrews 1:10–12, WE). Hebrews also says, “Jesus lives forever. He will never stop serving as a priest [religious leader]” (Hebrews 7:3, 24). The ones that Jesus saves have better things in heaven that will always “continue forever,” too (Hebrews 10:34, ERV). When God does His work as Judge, His people will not be shaken or destroyed (Psalm 46:5). They will live forever because Jesus lives in them.

Paul also says, “we have a kingdom that cannot be shaken” (Hebrews 12:28, ERV). Daniel talks about this kingdom (Daniel 7:18). This kingdom “will continue forever” (Daniel 2:44, ERV). This kingdom belongs to the Son. But Jesus, the Son, will share His kingdom with us.