---
title:  Let Us Give Thanks All The Time To God 
date:  17/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

How should we thank God for all His wonderful gifts? The answer is: we should worship God in a way that pleases Him.

`Compare Hebrews 12:28 and Hebrews 13:15, 16. How do we worship God in a way that pleases Him?`

The Israelites offered animal gifts to God to show Him they were thankful or sorry. These animals were only word pictures. They showed the feelings in the hearts of the givers. God did not really like animal offerings. God wanted His people to be kind, holy, and to give Him thanks. God was pleased by these gifts. These gifts showed worship.

In the same way, Paul invites us to worship God by offering Him praise and thanks. When we are sorry for sin and are kind to other people, God is happy. God loves these gifts! Sure, we cannot offer our gifts to God in person.  But God in heaven accepts our gifts. That is why Paul encourages us through his whole letter to think about Jesus (Hebrews 3:1; Hebrews 4:14; Hebrews 10:23). Then we will continue to do good things for other people (Hebrews 6:10–12; Hebrews 13:1, 2, 16).

Now we understand more fully what Paul means when he invites his readers to “worship God in a way that will please him” (Hebrews 12:28, ERV). The invitation also shows Christians that they are now a holy group of priests, or religious leaders. God chose Israel in the past to be a kingdom of priests. God wanted Israel to announce the Good News that Jesus saves people from sin (Exodus 19:4–6; 1 Peter 2:9 10; Revelation 1:6; Revelation 5:10). But Israel did not obey God. Then Jesus came. Jesus “did the things God wanted Him to do. Because of Jesus, we are made holy by the offering He made for us” (Hebrews 10:10–14, 19–23). God now gives us the plan He gave Israel. As part of this plan, God asks us to share what we have and to do good.

Hebrews 13:1–6 also shows us the good we should do. We must love people as if they were our family. Jesus showed this love to us (Hebrews 2:11, 12). We must be kind and helpful. We must visit prisoners and the suffering (Hebrews 13:3). We must turn from sex sins. We must not be greedy.

`Praise is an important part of worship. Why are good works and sharing an important part of our worship, too?`