---
title:  Further Thought
date:  18/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“After the Second Coming, 1,000 years will pass. During this time, God and His people will judge the evil dead who continue to sleep in their graves. Paul tells us about this time: ‘Do not be quick to say who is right or wrong. Wait until the Lord comes. He will bring into the light the things that are hidden in men’s hearts. He will show why men have done these things. Every man will receive [get] from God the thanks [reward] he should have.’ 1 Corinthians 4:5 [NLV]. Daniel also talks about this time: “ ‘Judgment [the work of judging] was given to the saints [holy people] of the Most High [God].’ ” Daniel 7:22 [KJV]. At this time, the holy people of God will serve God as kings and priests [religious leaders]. John says: ‘Then I saw some thrones and people sitting on them. These [people] were the ones who had been given the power to judge.’ Revelation 20:4 [ERV]. ‘They will be priests for God and for Christ. They will rule with him for 1000 years.’ Revelation 20:6 [ERV]. At this time, Paul shows us, “God’s people will judge the world.” 1 Corinthians 6:2 [ERV]. Together with Jesus, the people of God will judge all the evil people who ever lived. The people of God will compare the things the evil ones did with the Bible. Then the people of God will make a final decision. They will decide how much each person must suffer for his or her sins. The final decision will be written next to each name in the Book of Death.

“Jesus and His people also judge Satan and his evil angels. Paul says: ‘Do you not know that we shall judge angels?’ 1 Corinthians 6:3 [WE]. Jude announces: “Remember the angels also. Some of them did not keep the high [important] place [work] they had. But they left their home. God has them tied in chains for ever, and he is keeping them in a very dark place. He will keep them there until that big day when they will be judged.” Jude 1:6 [WE].”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 660, 661, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`The people of God will judge the evil dead (1 Corinthians 6:3; Jude 1:6). What does this Bible truth tell us about God and how honest He is with us? How will this work show us how fair and kind God was to the ones who refused His mercy?`

`Read Exodus 32:32; Psalm 56:8; Psalm 69:28; Psalm 139:16; Isaiah 4:3; Daniel 12:1; Malachi 3:16; Luke 10:20; Revelation 13:8; and Revelation 17:8. These verses talk about the books of God in heaven. What is written in these books? Why is it important that God keeps a record of our tears (Psalm 56:8)? God know everything, right? So, why does He need to keep books or records?`