---
title:  One Little Act of Kindness
date:  20/07/2019
---

**Introduction**: Ps. 82:3, 4

“I don’t think I can go another step,” Martin said as he shook his head wearily and motioned for his friend to stop. They stood at the edge of Saint George’s Square in Eisenach, Germany. His friend nodded. “I feel the same, Martin,” he agreed, “but we have not eaten anything all day.”

Martin looked out across the square. “I know,” he said, dejectedly. “But after the way they treated us at that last door, I think I don’t want to try another one.”

**“But we have not eaten anything all day.”**

It was 1497, and Martin Luther was fourteen years old. His father wanted him to have a good education but couldn’t afford to give him one. The best option available to Hans Luther was to send his son to a chorister school. The church ran the chorister schools and made provision for poor scholars to “earn” their way through school. They were required to do odd jobs at the local parish church and sing from door-to-door to beg for food.

Life was hard for chorister scholars. They were abused, belittled, and antagonized and often went to bed hungry.

One particularly bleak day, Martin and a friend were begging for food as usual. It was bitterly cold, and they were starving. As they made their way down the street, a young woman named Ursula watched them from the second-story window of her home.

She recognized them from her local church and knew they were chorister scholars. She saw how they were abused as they made their way down the street, and her heart was touched. She was determined to give them a different experience.

When they reached her door, she threw it open and greeted them with a warm smile. Then, to their amazement, she invited them in, seated them in front of a warm fire, and gave them a hearty meal. Martin Luther was so overwhelmed by her kindness that he broke down in tears.

Ursula soon found out that Martin’s parents were relatives of her husband, Conrad Cotta. The Cottas invited Martin Luther to live with them and financially supported him for the remainder of his time in Eisenach. He lived with them until 1501, when he went to the University of Erfurt.

Ursula Cotta’s simple act of kindness had a profound impact on Martin Luther’s life. Amid the despair and oppression that colored his daily life, her kindness was a lifeline that not only lifted his spirits but gave him a glimpse of the character of God that he had never seen before.1

---

<sup>1. Story of Ursula Cotta and Martin Luther taken from James Anderson, Ladies of The Reformation (Edinburgh, Scotland: Blackie and Son, 1855).</sup>

_Sukeshini Goonatilleke, Melbourne, Australia_