---
title:  Twenty-First-Century Samaritan
date:  21/07/2019
---

**Evidence**: Luke 10:25–37

In 723–722 b.c., many of the Jews in Israel were exiled to Assyria. During that exile, however, some were left behind and intermingled with the people of pagan cultures who were brought there. This corrupted the Jewish religion as Judaism and pagan customs were mixed together.1 Practices such as idolatry (see Exod. 20:4, 5) were now being accepted by this remnant in Israel. Because of their differences in religion and other contentious events leading up to Christ’s time, the Jews shunned the Samaritans (John 4:9).

With this historical context in mind, Jesus, a Jew, talking about the story of the good Samaritan (Luke 10:25–37) is appreciated with greater significance. Jesus talks about this Samaritan in a good light, which was not a common perspective among the Jews. In the story, two people, a priest and a Levite, passed by the Jewish man who was lying on the road nearly dead. A religious man and one of his own ethnicity passed by him! Though they were technically enemies, it was the Samaritan who stopped and cared for the man, going to great lengths to make sure he was cared for. Likewise, Jesus asks for us to do the same within our own context.

The story of the good Samaritan teaches us to “ ‘ “love your neighbor as yourself” ’ ” (Mark 12:31, NKJV). If you can love your enemy, how much easier will it be to love your friend? As the world becomes more broken, as it becomes more like the days before the Flood, more selfish desire will arise, and the wellbeing of people will be increasingly ignored. The greater focus will be on self. It is our responsibility to develop immunity from these growing worldly trends and to care for the needy around us. We must focus not only on the physical needs but also the spiritual. God’s mercy toward us should transform us; He promises to meet our needs (Phil. 4:19). To think that the King of the universe supports us—what a great joy that is! Should not this mercy of God prompt us to show the same mercy to others? Just as God meets our needs, should we not try to help meet the needs of others?

**React**

`1. Is it possible to love God but at the same time disregard everyone around us?`

`2. Through action, how can we represent ourselves to the world as Christians?`

---

<sup>1. Francis D. Nichol, ed., The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 5 (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1953), pp. 45, 46.</sup>

_Alec Janli Bofetiado, Glen Allen, Virginia, USA_