---
title:  Freely You Have Freely Give
date:  23/07/2019
---

**Testimony**: Matt. 10:8

“Those who, so far as it is possible, engage in the work of doing good to others by giving practical demonstration of their interest in them, are not only relieving the ills of human life in helping them bear their burdens, but are at the same time contributing largely to their own health of soul and body. Doing good is a work that benefits both giver and receiver. If you forget self in your interest for others, you gain a victory over your infirmities. The satisfaction you will realize in doing good will aid you greatly in the recovery of the healthy tone of the imagination.”1

“Dear young friends, remember that it is not necessary to be an ordained minister in order to serve the Lord. There are many ways of working for Christ. Human hands may never have been laid on you in ordination, but God can give you fitness for His service. He can work through you to the saving of souls. If, having learned in the school of Christ, you are meek and lowly in heart, He will give you words to speak for Him.”2

“Christ’s method alone will give true success in reaching the people. The Saviour mingled with men as one who desired their good. He showed His sympathy for them, ministered to their needs, and won their confidence. Then He bade them, ‘Follow Me.’

“There is need of coming close to the people by personal effort. If less time were given to sermonizing, and more time were spent in personal ministry, greater results would be seen. The poor are to be relieved, the sick cared for, the sorrowing and the bereaved comforted, the ignorant instructed, the inexperienced counseled. We are to weep with those that weep, and rejoice with those that rejoice. Accompanied by the power of persuasion, the power of prayer, the power of the love of God, this work will not, cannot, be without fruit.”3

**React**

`1. Knowing that Christ’s method (serving before calling) is the best way to reach out to others, what “small” acts can you start practicing in service to others?`

`2. “Actions speak louder than words.” How did Jesus serve others in such a way that they would be willing to leave everything behind to follow Him?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Messages to Young People, p. 209.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid. p. 226.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pp. 143, 144.</sup>

_Wendy Reyes, Falls Church, Virginia, USA_