---
title:  Being Just and Merciful
date:  24/07/2019
---

**How-to**: Ps. 82:3, 4

God is the greatest Judge in the universe. He is the One we should seek to emulate in justice and mercy. In the Bible, He outlines some basic guidelines to help us be more like Him.

God tells us that first, to be just and merciful, we must be righteous. But we cannot be righteous by ourselves. Only by the grace of Jesus are we able to obey and follow God’s will for us. This means we must commune with God daily through prayer and meditating upon His Word to be able to discern His will and find strength in Him to obey.

Justice and mercy are not easy concepts for humans to grasp. Because of our inherently sinful natures, we desire revenge against those who have wronged us. However, God tells us that we should do good to those who have mistreated us (Luke 6:27, 28). He challenges us to rise above our sinful natures and strive to emulate His character. We should forgive as He does, be courteous, respectful, and maintain an open mind and an optimistic attitude about giving second chances. Jesus tells us that we should forgive seventy times seven times. This instruction means to forgive more times than we can count—we should forgive others countless times (Matt. 18:21, 22).

God also instructs us to help those who are less fortunate. He asks us to have mercy on those who are poor, to give to them, and not oppress them (Prov. 14:31; 19:17; 22:22). This instruction means we should do our best to help people who are in need. Although we may not always see the full spectrum of the impact we can have on others, we should serve anyway because we love Jesus and desire to be more like Him.

We are called to help those in need, to do justly and mercifully, and to imitate God’s loving character by surrendering our lives to Jesus. We are to give 100 percent of ourselves to God and allow Him to work through us to help guide others closer to Him. If we follow the guidelines given to us in the Bible, we can shine with God’s character and bring others closer to Him, showing them that our God is a just and merciful God.

**React**

`1. Why does God ask us to help others by being just and merciful to them, and how can we do that if they are unkind to us?`

`2. How does our being just and merciful to others relate to God being just and merciful to us?`

---

_Clara Kolinek, Richmond, Virginia, USA_