---
title:  Alms for the . . . Responsible People
date:  25/07/2019
---

**Opinion**: Deut. 15:7–11

If you give a homeless person a dollar, have you helped? For most of us, the easy answer to this questions is “yes,” or at least a sympathetic “sure” (said with a shrug). What if the homeless person spends the dollar on drugs or alcohol? Have you still helped?

I am no expert in ethics or philosophy, but I have done a little reading and exploration into deontology versus consequentialism. Deontology “uses rules to distinguish right from wrong,” meaning the world and choices are very blackand- white.1 Consequentialism determines, as the name suggests, “whether or not something is right by what its consequences are.”2 (I encourage you to Google “trolley problem” later.) I will not try to convince you God is one way or the other. However, I think it is clear that God calls us to help regardless of the consequences. Most important, He knows the best way to help.

Yes, the homeless person could spend that dollar on something that you might not agree with, but you do not know whether they will or not. Should we not help because of a stereotype? I think the answer becomes clear if we look at examples of times that Jesus helped. Did He stop to think about the day of the week, the person’s race, the seriousness of the situation (demon possession versus running out of wine), or the person’s past? He simply helped.

We do not know what happened to everyone after their miracles occurred, and it is technically possible that the crippled man from Matthew 9 went home and said mean things to his mother! I highly doubt it, but the point I am trying to make is that I believe Jesus helped because helping is good, and it is the right thing to do. Jesus helped, and by helping others, He led people to the Father. We, as Christians, can get so bogged down in the details that I think we underestimate the power of God. In a situation where we are not sure what to do, we can ask Him for wisdom. Moreover, we should simply be Christlike examples to those we are helping and lead them to the Father.

**React**

`1. Has a fear of consequences ever prevented you from helping?`

`2. As complicated as the world is, what does helping look like?`

---

<sup>1. “Deontology,” Ethics Unwrapped, http://ethicsunwrapped.utexas.edu/glossary/deontology.</sup>

<sup>2. “Consequentialism,” Ethics Unwrapped, http://ethicsunwrapped.utexas.edu/glossary/consequentialism.</sup>

_Brody Wiedemann, Richmond, Virginia, USA_