---
title:  The Least of These
date:  26/07/2019
---

**Exploration**: Ps. 82:3, 4; Matt. 25:45

**Conclude**

Paul tells us to be imitators of Christ (Eph. 5:1, 2). While Jesus was on earth, He spent a lot of time ministering to those who were considered outcasts in society. If we profess to be followers of God, we will work to meet the needs of others. We must be a refuge for the poor and seek justice for the afflicted. In our ministry to the less fortunate, we should also point them to the Savior and eternal life. When we assist those who are least among us, we are doing it to Christ!

**Consider**

- Searching the Scriptures for stories about someone who helped those in need. Contemplate telling one of the stories you found to a small group or for a children’s story at church.
- Listening to the song “Not Too Far From Here” by Hilary Weeks, which talks about how people around you are hurting and need your help.
- Writing the names of people that you know personally who are sick, poor, depressed, or in need of help. Pray for these people, and ask God to show you just how you can make a difference in their lives.
- Volunteering at a food pantry, homeless shelter, nursing home, or a hospital for a few hours.
- Looking for opportunities to lend a hand to anyone who needs help throughout the day.
- Going on a mission trip with your local church or a Christian organization. This is an excellent way to minister to those who are less fortunate.


**Connect**

Psalms 9:9, 17, 18; 82:3–5; Micah 6:8; Matthew 25:45; Ephesians 5:1, 2; Isaiah 58:6–10; James 1:27.

Ellen G. White, A Call To Stand Apart, chap. 15, “Social Justice.”

---

__