---
title: 'What We Owe To The God Who Made Us'
date: 14/05/2023
---

Genesis 1 and 2 tell us how we were made and why we are here. The Genesis story gives us a reason for living. God made us. We must answer to Him for our behavior. The One who made us makes us responsible for all that we say and do. God has made important rules that He expects us to obey.

`We know that God is our Judge. What does His work as Judge show us about what He expects from us? How are God’s job as Judge, His law, and worship all connected? Read Revelation 14:7; Romans 14:10; and James 2:8–13 for the answers.`

The first angel announces: “ ‘The time has come for God to judge all people’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). God made us free to choose between good and evil. So, we are responsible for the decisions we make.

But God also asks us to make decisions about everlasting life and heaven. The First Angel’s Message commands us to “ ‘Worship God. He made the heavens [the skies], the earth, the sea, and the springs of water [the places where water comes out of the earth]’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). This verse shows us that we worship God because He made us.

Also, we keep the Sabbath because Jesus made us. So, Jesus is worthy of our worship. Our Sabbath keeping shows God and everyone else that we accept God’s Ten Commandments. When we keep the Sabbath holy, we show God that we want to be obedient to His whole law. God’s law shows us how to live in the best way possible. God’s law is part of His government. The law shows us God’s love, too. That’s why God uses the law to judge us.

`How does our understanding of the story in Genesis 1 and 2 change our behavior? In what way do the people, places, and ideas in your life have a part in the choices you make? How can God’s mercy help us to win the fight against our bad habits?`