---
title: 'The Sabbath And The God Who Made Us'
date: 15/05/2023
---

God gave us the Sabbath because we need to remember that He made us. In the mid-1800s, people everywhere started to accept the teaching of evolution. Evolution is the false teaching that life on earth started because of an accident from slow changes in plants and animals that happened over a very long time. So, God sent the people on this earth a message of wonderful hope. We have been studying this message all quarter: the First Angel’s Message, in Revelation 14:6, 7.

Satan hates Jesus. So, Satan tries hard to make people misunderstand the story, in Genesis 1 and 2, about how God made us. Satan doesn’t want us to worship Jesus as the One who made us and saves us. God’s end-time message commands people to worship Jesus as the One who made heaven and earth. So, we should worship Jesus because He made us.

`Read Revelation 14:6, 7. Then read Genesis 2:1–3; Exodus 20:8–11; and Deuteronomy 5:12–15. How does the Sabbath commandment show us the connection between the Genesis story about how life started and the Good News?`

The final war between God and Satan will be about the Sabbath. The Sabbath is a word picture of our rest in Jesus. The Sabbath is a special sign that shows we are loyal to God (Ezekiel 20:12, 20). The Sabbath also shows that we trust in God to save us and not our good behavior. The Sabbath shows that God does for us the thing we can’t do for ourselves. God saves us from our sins.

The Bible asks us to rest in God’s love and His care each Sabbath. That is another reason why the Sabbath is a word picture for rest and trust. Our keeping the Sabbath shows that we don’t trust in our good behavior to save us. The Sabbath is about mercy, not about keeping rules to earn God’s pardon. The Sabbath is about love, not punishment. The Sabbath is about depending on God, not on ourselves. Each Sabbath we praise God for saving us in Jesus.

The Sabbath is the everlasting connection between Eden in the past and the promise of the new sky and earth in the future (Isaiah 65:17; Revelation 21:1).

`How does Revelation 14:6, 7 show us a hint of the Sabbath commandment? Why is the Sabbath so important to our end-time message? (Also read Exodus 20:8–11.)`