---
title: 'The Devil’s Sneaky Lie'
date: 16/05/2023
---

The devil hates the teaching that God made the earth and sky in six days. So, the devil came up with a lie to attack Bible truth. Satan’s lie says that God took a long time to make life on earth. The lie also says God didn’t make the earth in six days. He used evolution. As we saw, evolution is the false teaching that life on earth started because of chance from slow changes in plants and animals that happened over a very long time. Do you see how sneaky this teaching is? Satan mixes the teaching of evolution with Bible truth. This false teaching says that the days in Genesis 1 are not real days but millions of years. So, this lie teaches that life on earth is billions of years old.

`Read Psalm 33:6, 9 and Hebrews 11:3. What do these Bible verses tell us about how God made the earth?`

The Bible teaches us how God made the earth: “He spoke, and it [the earth] happened. He commanded, and it appeared” (Psalm 33:9, ICB). Genesis 1 shows us that God made the earth in six real days that were each 24 hours long. Then God rested on the 7th day. Bible thinkers who don’t believe in the real six-day Genesis story accept that the person who wrote Genesis meant to teach the idea that God made the earth in six days.

The Hebrew word for “day” in Genesis 1 is “yom.” In the Bible a number is often written before the word “yom” or day. Some examples are third day, first day, and so on. Whenever a number is written before the word “yom,” then the number limits the day to 24 hours. Nowhere in the Bible do we see an example where a number before “yom” means more than a real day. So, the word “yom” with a number written in front of it always means 24 hours.

Also, if God didn’t make the skies and earth in six days, how can we keep the seventh-day Sabbath? Why would God command us to keep it? So, if we accept that God waited long ages to make the earth, we attack the Sabbath truth.

Satan’s attack on the Sabbath really is an attack on God’s control. Satan’s sneaky plan is to trick people into accepting evolution. Then Satan will destroy their belief in the Sabbath. Sad to say, many people today, including Christians, don’t accept the Sabbath.