---
title: 'The Sabbath And The End Time'
date: 17/05/2023
---

The worldwide war between God and Satan started in heaven many thousands of years ago. Satan started the war when he questioned God’s control. This war continues today.

**Read Revelation 14:7, 9, and 12. Write what these verses mean by finishing the sentences on the lines below.**

`Revelation 14:7 commands us to`

`Revelation 14:9 asks us not to`

`Revelation 14:12 describes a people who`

These verses teach us that the war between God and Satan in the end times is about worship. Do we worship God? Or do we worship the wild animal power from the sea? All our Bible teachings come from our belief that God made the earth and everything in it. Without that belief, nothing else we believe matters. The Genesis story teaches us about the seventh-day Sabbath (Genesis 2:1–3). So, the Sabbath is a sign that God made the earth in six days and rested on the seventh day. The Sabbath is proof that God made us.

So, anyone who teaches that the Sabbath isn’t important is trying to remove God from His throne and replace Him (2 Thessalonians 2:4). An attack on the Sabbath is an attack on God.

The real test in the end times will be about our love for Jesus. Are we loyal to Him? The Bible says that we show our love for God by our obedience to His commandments (1 John 5:3; Revelation 14:12). The Sabbath is the only commandment that shows us God as the One who made us (Exodus 20:8–11). No wonder the Sabbath will be the test that separates the ones who worship God from the ones who worship the wild animal power from the sea (Revelation 14:11, 12). Think about how important the Sabbath is to you. Do you really think the final test can be about anything else?

`Many people argue that it doesn’t matter which day we keep, as long as we keep a day holy. How do we use Bible truth to answer this false teaching?`