---
title: 'The Sabbath And Everlasting Rest'
date: 18/05/2023
---

The Sabbath is the same as a place of safety in this life. Each week we let go of our worries and cares and enter God’s rest center: the Sabbath. Abraham Heschel, the famous Jewish writer, said that Sabbath is “the same as a castle. This castle is not made with stone. This castle is made of time.”—The Sabbath: Its Meaning for Modern Man (New York: Farrar, Straus, and Giroux, 2005), page 12, adapted. Every seventh day, God’s Sabbath or “palace” comes down from heaven to earth. The Lord invites us to spend these 24 hours in fellowship with Him each week.

At the start of Heschel’s book, Susannah Heschel, his daughter, writes about the Sabbath in these words: “The Sabbath is a word picture for heaven. The Sabbath is a story about God and His love. In our prayers, we ask God to send His Chosen One. When the Chosen One comes, His coming will be the same as a Sabbath. Each Sabbath helps us get ready for heaven. So, we must learn how to love the Sabbath now. If we don’t, then we won’t know how to enjoy everlasting life later.”—The Sabbath: Its Meaning for Modern Man, page XV, adapted.

So, we can see that when God made the earth, He made the Sabbath for us. When we rest on the Sabbath, we rest in God’s loving care. We rest in hope of the everlasting rest God will give us in the new earth that is soon to come.

`Read Isaiah 65:17; Isaiah 66:22; 2 Peter 3:13; and Revelation 21:1. How does keeping the Sabbath help us understand everlasting life on the new earth?`

The same God who made the earth the first time will make it new again. The Sabbath will be an everlasting word picture for God as the One who made us (read Isaiah 66:23). That’s why the Jews saw the Sabbath as a sign of the future life in heaven. The Jews named the Sabbath the “olam haba.” This name means “the new life to come.” The Sabbath is a “taste” of everlasting life.

The three angels tell everyone to worship God. Their message helps us understand better the One who made us. He says, “ ‘Look! I am making everything new!’ Then he said, ‘Write this, because these words are true and can be trusted’ ” (Revelation 21:5, ICB).

`How can you make the Sabbath a “taste” of everlasting life in your own life and in your family?`