---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 19/05/2023
---

“We worship God because He is the One who made us. God’s holy angels give us this reason in these words: ‘You made all things’ ([Revelation] 4:11, [ERV]). On earth, people need to remember that God is the One who made them. That’s why the first angel says, ‘Worship God. He made the heavens [skies], the earth, the sea, and the springs of water’ ([Revelation] 14:7, [ERV]). Bible thinkers believe that the first angel uses the language from the fourth commandment in his command to humans to worship God (Exodus 20:11). . . .

“The Sabbath is the sign of God’s government. The Sabbath shows us who God is. God is the One who made us. The Sabbath shows us God’s kingdom, too. God’s kingdom includes everything He made. Finally, the Sabbath shows us that God is the only One who can be King. Why? Because He made everything. So, for the dragon [Satan] to win his war against God, he must get rid of the Sabbath.”—Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, from an unpublished paper, “The Closing of the Cosmic Conflict: Role of the Three Angels’ Messages,” (from an unpublished article), pages 40, 41, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What message does the Sabbath teach us? How does this message answer the important questions about life? These questions include: “Where did I come from?” “Why am I here?” “What will happen to me in the future?”`

`Think about all the beautiful things God made in nature. Each week, the Sabbath comes to us to help us remember these wonderful things God made. What does the weekly Sabbath teach us about how important the story is in Genesis 1 and 2?`

`Read the stories in Daniel 3 and Daniel 6. What part does worship have in these stories? How can these stories help us get ready for the end times?`