---
title:  The Biblical Worldview
date:  10/12/2022
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Luke 2:52; Matt. 4:23; 1 Cor. 6:19, 20; Ps. 24:3, 4; Acts 8:4–24; 1 John 3:1–3.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Now may the God of peace Himself sanctify you completely; and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ” (1 Thessalonians 5:23, NKJV).

The book of Revelation speaks of two major “globalizations” prior to the second coming of Christ. Revelation 13 describes the globalization of _error_, when “all the world” will marvel and follow the beast from the sea (Rev. 13:3, 7, 8, 12, 16, NKJV). Revelation 14 highlights the globalization of _truth_, when the “everlasting gospel” will be preached “to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people” (Rev. 14:6, 7, NKJV). During those “distressing times” (2 Tim. 3:1, NRSV), “every wind of doctrine” will be blowing (Eph. 4:14, NKJV), and people will “turn away from listening to the truth and wander away to myths” (2 Tim. 4:4, NRSV). “Through the two great errors, the immortality of the soul and Sunday sacredness, Satan will bring the people under his deceptions. While the former lays the foundation of spiritualism, the latter creates a bond of sympathy with Rome.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 588.

Until these final events unfold, we must remain firm in our belief in all the truth that we have, which includes the nature of humanity and of death, as we seek to be guided by the Holy Spirit with the purpose of being ready for Christ’s glorious appearing.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, December 17._---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

If we are fighting in the strength of the Mighty One, we are on the side that will win at last. In the end we shall conquer. The greatest work, the most perilous scenes are before us. The deadly conflict we must meet. Are we prepared for it? God is still speaking to the children of men. He is speaking in many different ways. Will they hear His voice? Will we place our hands confidingly in His and say, “Lead me, guide me”?<br/>
There is cheap religion in abundance, but there is no such thing as cheap Christianity. Self may figure largely in a false religion, but it cannot appear in Christian experience. You are workers together with God. “Without Me,” said Christ, “ye can do nothing.” We cannot be shepherds of the flock unless we are divested of our own peculiar habits, manners, and customs, and come into Christ’s likeness.—Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers, p. 339.

It is positively necessary for those who believe the truth, to be making continual advancement, growing up into the full stature of men and women in Christ Jesus. There is no time for backsliding and indifference. Each one must have a living experience in the things of God. Have root in yourselves. Become grounded in the faith, so that having done all you may stand, with unwavering confidence in God, through the time that will try every man’s work and character. Exercise your powers in spiritual things, till you can appreciate the deep things of God’s Word, and go on from strength to strength.<br/>
There are thousands who claim to have the light of truth who take no steps in advance. They have no living experience, notwithstanding they have had every advantage. . . . The Word of God offers spiritual liberty and enlightenment to those who seek for it earnestly. Those who accept the promises of God, and act on them with living faith, will have the light of heaven in their lives. They will drink of the fountain of life, and lead others to the waters that have refreshed their own souls.—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 332.

“The time will come,” Paul wrote to Timothy, “when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears; and they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables. But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry.” [2 Timothy 4:3-5.]<br/>
“Sound doctrine” is Bible truth—truth that will promote piety and devotion, confirming God’s people in the faith. Sound doctrine means much to the receiver; and it means much, too, to the teacher, the minister of righteousness; for wherever the gospel is preached, every laborer, whatever his line of service, is either true or untrue to his responsibility as the Lord’s messenger.—Gospel Workers, p. 311.