---
title:  The Guidance of the Spirit
date:  14/12/2022
---

The Holy Spirit is God’s powerful Agent who pours out the love of God into our hearts (Rom. 5:5), leads us into a true saving experience (John 16:7–11), guides us into all the truth (John 16:13), and empowers us to fulfill the gospel mission (Acts 1:8). Because it is the Holy Spirit who counteracts the degenerating work of Satan, it is no surprise that Satan tries by all means to distort our understanding of the nature and work of the Holy Spirit. While some deny His personality, others emphasize the gifts of the Spirit over His transforming power.

`Read Acts 8:4–24. Simon the sorcerer of Samaria wanted to receive the gifts of the Holy Spirit without being regenerated by the Spirit. How is this very same attitude still being manifested in our day?`

The children of God are those who are being guided by the Holy Spirit (Rom. 8:14) into all the truth of God’s Word (John 16:13, John 17:17). Jesus warned in clear terms, “ ‘Not everyone who says to me, “Lord, Lord,” will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. Many will say to me on that day, “Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your name drive out demons and in your name perform many miracles?” Then I will tell them plainly, “I never knew you. Away from me, you evildoers!” ’ ” (Matt. 7:21–23, NIV). This means that the Holy Spirit never guides anyone away from God’s Word—which He Himself inspired—but rather always leads us into conformity to that Word.

The same Holy Spirit that guides us into all the truth also empowers us in leading others into that wonderful truth (Matt. 28:18–20, Acts 1:8). While fulfilling our sacred mission, we have His special assistance. So, morning by morning, we must kneel before the Lord and renew our vows of consecration to Him. If we do this, He will grant us the presence of His Spirit, with His reviving, sanctifying power.

We must, however, be open to His leading by making conscious choices, every day, to do what we know is right and avoid what we know is wrong. That is, only by seeking, in our God-given strength, to live as we should will we be open to receiving that power of the Holy Spirit in our lives, which God promises us.

`Why is it so important, morning after morning, to pray ourselves into an openness to the Holy Spirit’s leading in our lives?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“When He, the Spirit of truth, is come,” said Jesus, “He will guide you into all truth.”<br/>
The Comforter is called “the Spirit of truth.” His work is to define and maintain the truth. He first dwells in the heart as the Spirit of truth, and thus He becomes the Comforter. There is comfort and peace in the truth, but no real peace or comfort can be found in falsehood. . . . Through the Scriptures the Holy Spirit speaks to the mind, and impresses truth upon the heart. Thus He exposes error, and expels it from the soul. It is by the Spirit of truth, working through the word of God, that Christ subdues His chosen people to Himself. . . .<br/>
. . . The Holy Spirit was the highest of all gifts that He could solicit from His Father for the exaltation of His people. The Spirit was to be given as a regenerating agent, and without this the sacrifice of Christ would have been of no avail. The power of evil had been strengthening for centuries, and the submission of men to this satanic captivity was amazing. Sin could be resisted and overcome only through the mighty agency of the Third Person of the Godhead, who would come with no modified energy, but in the fullness of divine power. It is the Spirit that makes effectual what has been wrought out by the world’s Redeemer. It is by the Spirit that the heart is made pure. Through the Spirit the believer becomes a partaker of the divine nature.—The Desire of Ages, pp. 670, 671.

We must individually seek God. This is a personal work. Let us draw near to God, allowing nothing to come into our efforts that would misrepresent the truth for this time. Let everyone confess, not his brother’s sin, but his own sin. Let him humble his heart before God and become so filled with the Holy Spirit that his life will show that he has been born again. We read: “As many as received Him, to them gave He power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on His name.” John 1:12.<br/>
The gospel of Christ is to be lived, practiced in the daily life. The servants of God are to be cleansed from all coldness, all selfishness. Simplicity, meekness, lowliness are of great value in the work of God. Try to unite the workers in confidence and love. If you cannot do this, be right yourselves, and leave the rest with God. Labor in faith and prayer. Select Christian youth, and train them to be, not workers with hearts like iron, but workers who are willing to harmonize.<br/>
I pray that the Lord will change the hearts of those who, unless they receive more grace, will enter into temptation. I pray that He will soften and subdue every heart. We need to live in close fellowship with God, that we may love one another as Christ has loved us. It is by this that the world is to know that we are His disciples. Let there be no self-exaltation. If the workers will humble their hearts before God, the blessing will come.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, pp. 218, 219.