---
title:  Further Thought
date:  16/12/2022
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Mind Cure,” pp. 241–259, in The Ministry of Healing; “True and False Theories Contrasted,” pp. 7–16, in The Sanctified Life.

“The great controversy is nearing its end. Every report of calamity by sea or land is a testimony to the fact that the end of all things is at hand. Wars and rumors of wars declare it. Is there a Christian whose pulse does not beat with quickened action as he anticipates the great events opening before us? The Lord is coming. We hear the footsteps of an approaching God.”—Ellen G. White, Maranatha, p. 220.

“Live the life of faith day by day. Do not become anxious and distressed about the time of trouble, and thus have a time of trouble beforehand. Do not keep thinking, ‘I am afraid I shall not stand in the great testing day.’ You are to live for the present, for this day only. Tomorrow is not yours. Today you are to maintain the victory over self. Today you are to live a life of prayer. Today you are to fight the good fight of faith. Today you are to believe that God blesses you. And as you gain the victory over darkness and unbelief, you will meet the requirements of the Master, and will become a blessing to those around you.”—Ellen G. White, “The Light of the World,” Signs of the Times, October 20, 1887.

“The Lord is soon to come, and we must be prepared to meet Him in peace. Let us be determined to do all in our power to impart light to those around us. We are not to be sad, but cheerful, and we are to keep the Lord Jesus ever before us. . . . We must be ready and waiting for His appearing. Oh, how glorious it will be to see Him, and be welcomed as His redeemed ones! Long have we waited, but our faith is not to become weak. If we can but see the King in His beauty, we shall be forever and forever blessed. I feel as if I must cry aloud, ‘Homeward bound.’ We are nearing the time when Christ will come with power and great glory, to take His ransomed ones to their eternal home.”—Ellen G. White, Heaven, pp. 165, 166.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How can the notion of the person—body, soul, and spirit as an indivisible whole—help us better understand the all-­encompassing scope of religion and the importance of our personal lifestyle?`

`All true revivals and reformations are theocentric (centered in God) and never anthropocentric (centered in human behavior). How does the parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector _(see Luke 18:9–14)_ illustrate this principle?`

`In class, discuss your answer to Thursday’s final question. How can you know if you are ready, and can you have assurance without being presumptuous?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Upward Look, “As a Thief in the Night,” p. 365;<br/>
The Sanctified Life, “True and False Theories Contrasted,” pp. 7–16.<br/>