---
title:  The Example of Jesus
date:   06/09/2026
---

Paul encourages the church in Corinth to finish collect­ing an offering for the poor churches in Judea. The Corinthians already decided to do this task (2 Corinthians 8:10, 11; 2 Corinthians 9:5; also read 1 Corinthians 16:1–4). But a misunderstanding between Paul and the Corinthians causes problems. After the problems are solved (2 Corinthians 1–7), Paul wants the church to finish the task.

Paul tells the Corinthians about the example of the Macedonians (2 Corinthians 8:1–7). The Macedonians were very poor. But “they give to others as if they were rich” (2 Corinthians 8:2, WE). For sure, we don’t need to be rich to give as the Macedonians gave. The Macedonians’ example shows us Jesus’ gift in giving Himself for us (2 Corinthians 8:8–15).

`Read 2 Corinthians 8:9. What does this verse tell us about the example of Jesus?`

This verse is one of the most powerful truths in the whole Bible. In just a few words, Paul tells the story of Jesus’ work. We see God’s saving plan in just one verse.

Yes, Jesus was rich. As God, He lived in heaven (John 17:5). But He decided to leave heaven and come to this earth. His life here was filled with sorrows and suffering. He became poor (Luke 9:58). Jesus was One with God in heaven. But He left “everything that belonged to Him and made Himself the same as a servant who is owned by someone. He became human by being born as a man” (Philippians 2:7, NLV). “And when he lived as a man, he made himself even less important. He obeyed God completely, so that he died. He even died on a cross” (Philippians 2:8, EASY).

Jesus gave His life so that we may live forever with Him. He offered Himself to save us. Serving God and giving go together. As we saw, 2 Corinthians 8 and 9 is a story about a money offering. But it is also really about Jesus and how He gave Himself to us. During this week, we will see how other gifts also show us Jesus’ gift of Himself to us.

`Think about everything Jesus did for us. How do His being born, His life, death, and waking up from the dead give you hope?`