---
title:  Our Reason For Giving
date:   07/09/2026
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 8:1, 5 and 2 Corinthians 9:7, 9, 13, 15. What is the important message in these verses?`

In 2 Corinthians 8 and 9, Paul talks a lot about giving: 2 Corinthians 8:1; 2 Corinthians 8:5; 2 Corinthians 9:7; 2 Corinthians 9:9; 2 Corinthians 9:13; and 2 Corinthians 9:15. As we can see, 2 Corinthians 8 and 9 start and end with giving (2 Corinthians 8:1; 2 Corinthians 9:15). These two chapters talk about four reasons for giving our offerings. We give because:

**1. We are thankful for God’s love and forgiveness (2 Corinthians 8:1; 2 Corinthians 9:14, 15).** In 2 Corinthians 8 and 9, Paul starts with this topic: “the grace [love and forgiveness] that God has given to the churches in Macedonia” (2 Corinthians 8:1, NIrV). A little later, Paul says, “You know how much love our Lord Jesus Christ had” (2 Corinthians 8:9, WE). The love of Jesus is one of the most important reasons for giving. God did so much for us when He gave us Jesus. When we give offerings to God, we show Him our thankfulness for His love in our lives.

**2. We want to follow the example of Jesus (2 Corinthians 8:9).** Jesus was rich and became poor. (Remember, “rich” is a symbol for Jesus’ life in heaven before He came to this earth as a Baby. “Poor” is a symbol for Jesus’ life after He was born.) How did Jesus become poor? He gave up everything that belonged to Him in heaven to come to this earth to save us. In the same way, our offerings help other people learn about Jesus.

**3. We want to share God’s blessings (2 Corinthians 9:10, 11).** We give to other people because God first gave to us. God makes us rich with His gifts. Then we may share these blessings with others.

**4. We love God and other people (2 Corinthians 8:8, 24).** Giving is the test of real love. Giving is powerful proof that love fills our hearts.

`How much do you give to the Lord? When you look at the Cross, how much do you really give compared with how much you really should give?`