---
title:  Planning
date:   08/09/2026
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 9:7. What does this verse teach us about giving?`

God decided to save us before Adam and Eve sinned. Jesus’ death for us was part of a very old plan (Revelation 13:8). So, the sin problem didn’t surprise God. He was ready. As part of His plan, He gave us Jesus. In 2 Corinthians 8 and 9, we learn that planning is an important part of giving. Here are two important rules to follow:

**Rule #1: Planning starts with a decision.** Paul gives us this advice: “Each of you should think carefully and then decide how much you can give” (2 Corinthians 9:7, EASY). The word “decide” comes from the word _‘proaireō’_ in the Greek language. This word is made from joining two words together: _‘pro’_ and _‘aireō_.’ The word ‘pro’ means doing something ahead of time. The word _‘aireō’_ means “to decide” in this verse. So, _‘proaireō’_ means deciding to do something ahead of time. Also, do you see that Paul starts 2 Corinthians 9:7 with the words “each of you”? These words show us that not everyone will give the same amount of offering. Paul is saying that people should think carefully about the amount before they give it.

**Rule #2. Planning includes knowing how much to give.** First, Paul gives an example of rule number two in 2 Corinthians 8:3. Paul says that the Macedonians “gave as much as they could and even more than that” (2 Corinthians 8:3, WE). Next, Paul uses Rule #2 to encourage the Corinthians to finish collecting money for the poor. Paul wants the Corinthians to give what they can (2 Corinthians 8:11). That’s why Paul says, “God does not want you to give more than you are able to [can] give. He will be happy about what you can give” (2 Corinthians 8:12, EASY). The Bible tells us how much we should give for tithe. Tithe is 10% of all the money we get. We don’t follow the same rule for offerings. As Paul says, “Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give” (2 Corinthians 9:7, NIrV). In other words, we must look carefully at how much money we earn or get. Then we must decide how much we will give as an offering. Each of us must give from how much we earn or get. We can’t do that without planning.

`Do you give God what you owe Him in tithes and offerings? If your answer is “No,” what is your excuse?`