---
title:  A Joyful Giver
date:   09/09/2026
---

Why did the Macedonians give a big offering? What made them want to do that? Read 2 Corinthians 8:1–5 for the answer.

There are many reasons why the Macedonians gave a big offering:

**1. They were filled with joy (2 Corinthians 8:2).** The Macedonians gave because they were filled with joy. Later, Paul says, “God loves those [people] who are happy to give” (2 Corinthians 9:7, ERV). The word for “happy” in the Greek language is used only here in the New Testament. A word from the same word family is “gladly.” This word is used in Romans 12:8: “If a person can help someone, he must do it gladly” (WE). This word can be used to mean “happiness,” “being glad” or “joyful.” In 2 Corinthians 9:7, a cheerful or happy giver is someone who wants to give.

**2. They give much (2 Corinthians 8:2).** Paul says that the Macedonians gave a lot. But first he says that they are very poor. Being poor doesn’t stop them from giving. The more we give, the more God will give to us to give. Paul says, “God will make you rich in every way so that you can always give freely” (2 Corinthians 9:11, ERV). When we give, we show that the Good News about Jesus changed our lives (2 Corinthians 9:13).

**3. They gave because they wanted to (2 Corinthians 8:3).** The Macedonians didn’t have much to give. But they gave anyway because they wanted to. Their money was very limited.

**4. They believed giving was a blessing (2 Corinthians 8:4).** The Macedonians volunteered to give money to the poor in Judea. Paul says, “They asked from their hearts if they could help the Christians in Jerusalem” (2 Corinthians 8:4, NLV).

**5. They believed that giving an offering was part of giving their lives fully to God (2 Corinthians 8:5).** Paul says, “They did more than we had even hoped for! First, they gave themselves [their whole hearts and lives] to the Lord. Then they also gave themselves to us. They did that because God wanted them to do it” (2 Corinthians 8:5, EASY). When we give ourselves to the Lord, we also will serve other people. We will give them what they need. The Macedonians gave their lives to God. So, giving can be other things, not just our money.