---
title:  Working Together in Peace and Love
date:   10/09/2026
---

We saw that Paul encourages the church members in Corinth to collect money for the poor churches in Judea. Paul hopes that the offering will help the Corinthians to work together in peace and love. Paul also wants to show that the non-­Jewish churches are part of the same family of God as the Jewish Christians in Jerusalem. In the past, the non-Jews were the enemies of the Jews. Now, they are all God’s people. Paul wants the whole Christian family, both Jews and non-Jews, to work together in peace and love. That will be powerful proof of God’s love for years to come.

Titus and two other Christians were responsible for the offering. God filled Titus’s heart with love for the church (2 Corinthians 8:16). God also chose two other brothers in Jesus to help Titus (2 Corinthians 8:18–23). Paul says these two men “bring glory [honor] to Christ [the Savior]” (2 Corinthians 8:23, ICB). When we give offerings, we show we are loyal to Jesus. Jesus is the Head of the church (Ephesians 4:15).

In 2 Corinthians 8–9, Paul says that the offerings should be given to the people in the church that God chooses. When we bring offerings to the church, we show our love for God and the church. That’s why Paul says, “So show these men that you love them. Then all the churches will be sure about you. They will know that we were right to be proud of you” (2 Corinthians 8:24, EASY).

When we bring offerings to the church, we cause peace and love in the church to grow. At the same time, we also give offerings because of the peace and love already in the church. God chose the church to help Him finish His work on the earth. Money can help the church to finish its work and to work together in peace and love. But if members are selfish, then money can cause separation in the church.

`How does Romans 15:26, 27 show Paul’s wish for the church to work together in peace and love?`

Paul shows that collecting and giving offerings is a way of serving God. Giving also shows that God’s love and forgiveness is alive in our hearts. Giving is worship and fellowship, too. All that from offering? Think about it.

`How do our offerings to our local churches help peace and love to grow in the church worldwide?`