---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   11/09/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “A Liberal Church,” pages 335–345, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“Are your hearts filled with Jesus’ love? If yes, you will follow His example. He became poor for us to make us rich. Money, time, and our relationships with others are all gifts God gave us. These gifts have no worth if we don’t use them to serve the Lord. The church in New Testament times used all its gifts to do God’s work and build up His kingdom. We must do the same today. We must let the Holy Spirit remove from our hearts a love for the things of this life. We must be ready to give up whatever Jesus asks us to give up so that we may share the Good News about Him with other people. When we do these things, the Good News will change lives in a powerful way.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 71, adapted.

“The Lord doesn’t need our offerings. We can’t make the Lord rich with our gifts. King David says: ‘Everything that we have comes from you. So we are giving back to you things that already belong to you.’ [1 Chronicles 29:14, EASY]. At the same time, God allows us to show Him how much we are thankful for His love. We can save our money and not spend it all on ourselves. Then we can give it as an offering to God to help other people learn about His love and forgiveness. Our offerings show God how much we love and thank Him for everything He does. God made no other way for us to show our love and thankfulness to Him.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, pages 18, 19, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think some more about 2 Corinthians 8:9. How does the example of Jesus help us to be better managers of everything God gives us?`

`John 3:16 helps us to understand that everyone in heaven loves to give. Read John 15:13; Ephesians 5:2, 25; Galatians 2:19, 20; and 1 John 3:16. What is the same about these verses and John 3:16? What message do they teach us?`

`How does giving bless our lives? Read 2 Corinthians 8, 9 for the answer. What else can we give God, along with our offerings? What does Jesus’ example of giving teach us?`