---
title:  Further Thought
date:  13/06/2025
---

“The First King of Israel,” pp. 605, 606, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Satan will arouse indignation against the minority who refuse to accept popular customs and traditions. Men of position and reputation will join with the lawless and the vile to take counsel against the people of God. Wealth, genius, education, will combine to cover them with contempt. Persecuting rulers, ministers, and church members will conspire against them. With voice and pen, by boasts, threats, and ridicule, they will seek to overthrow their faith. By false representations and angry appeals, men will stir up the passions of the people. Not having a ‘Thus saith the Scriptures’ to bring against the advocates of the Bible Sabbath, they will resort to oppressive enactments to supply the lack. To secure popularity and patronage, legislators will yield to the demand for Sunday laws. But those who fear God, cannot accept an institution that violates a precept of the Decalogue. On this battlefield will be fought the last great conflict in the controversy between truth and error. And we are not left in doubt as to the issue. Today, as in the days of Esther and Mordecai, the Lord will vindicate His truth and His people.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 605, 606.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why do you think God allows His people to pass through trying times? What is the point of allowing it?`

`How does a believer prepare himself or herself for any potential hardship that may come with loyalty to Christ? Where do you find hope in the midst of difficult circumstances?`

`Why do you think we tend to dwell on the harder things of prophecy and allow them to eclipse the bigger picture that provides good news?`

`A friend comes to you after reading the book of Revelation and confides that she finds it “terrifying.” What approach would you use to help her understand more clearly and find peace of mind?`

`Someone says, “I’m not convinced that God loves me or wants me. If you knew what I’ve done, you would understand why.” What response would you give? How do the stories of Ruth and Esther inform your approach?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“In the Days of Queen Esther,” in Prophets and Kings, pp. 598–605.\
“Christ’s Followers the Light of the World,” in Gospel Workers, pp. 433–437.\