---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/08/2022
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Jehoshaphat,” pp. 190–203, in Prophets and Kings; “The Fall of Jericho,” pp. 487–498, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Then let us educate our hearts and lips to speak the praise of God for His matchless love. Let us educate our souls to be hopeful and to abide in the light shining from the cross of Calvary. Never should we forget that we are children of the heavenly King, sons and daughters of the Lord of hosts. It is our privilege to maintain a calm repose in God.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, p. 253.

“And while I adore and magnify Him, I want you to magnify Him with me. Praise the Lord even when you fall into darkness. Praise Him even in temptation. ‘Rejoice in the Lord alway,’ says the apostle; ‘and again I say, Rejoice.’ Will that bring gloom and darkness into your families? No, indeed; it will bring a sunbeam. You will thus gather rays of eternal light from the throne of glory and scatter them around you. Let me exhort you to engage in this work, scatter this light and life around you, not only in your own path, but in the paths of those with whom you associate. Let it be your object to make those around you better, to elevate them, to point them to heaven and glory, and lead them to seek, above all earthly things, the eternal substance, the immortal inheritance, the riches which are imperishable.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2, pp. 593, 594.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What role does community praise have in the life of the Christian? How would you describe the praise in your Sabbath services? Is it uplifting? Does it encourage members to maintain faithfulness amid trial and trauma? If not, what can be done?`

`What does it mean to “praise the Lord even when you fall into darkness” or to “praise Him even in temptation”? How can praise help us through these situations?`

`Let members give testimonies on how praise has affected their lives. What can you learn from one another’s experiences?`

`As a class, pick a psalm of praise and spend time reading it. What does it teach you about praise? What impact does praise have on your faith?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Sons and Daughters of God, “Be Strong, for God Is With Us,” p. 202;<br/>
Patriarchs and Prophets, “The Fall of Jericho,” pp. 487–498.<br/>