---
title: Serving Out of Gratefulness
date: 31/08/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 20:1–16**

**Serving Out of
Gratefulness**

When a friend of mine was growing up, her father often gave her special treats when she did extra work at home. One day, when a lot of cleaning up had to be done, her father promised they would go out for lunch and eat pizza together once the job was finished. My friend didn’t feel like helping that day, though she was very interested in the pizza. She let her dad clean up without her help, figuring she would still get pizza for lunch. When her dad invited her along to the pizzeria, she was delighted. She thought she had managed to avoid the work and still get the reward. To her surprise, her dad ordered only one serving. She thought perhaps he wasn’t hungry and the pizza would be for her. Once the pizza arrived, however, he placed it in front of himself and said that since she had not helped with the assigned task of the day, he would enjoy the pizza alone. Her first reaction was, “How can he do this to me? This isn’t fair!” Suddenly, she realized she had not kept her side of the deal.

Then her father smiled, pushed the pizza toward her, and said he would take the consequences of her actions by letting her enjoy his pizza. She shared with me how this experience made the gospel come alive and positively changed her perspective on God. Jesus took the penalty for our sins so we can be rewarded with grace, something we certainly do not deserve. My friend also gained a new perspective on helping out at home. She realized that we don’t serve to get what we want; we serve out of gratefulness.

In this lesson, we will examine a parable that illustrates God’s gift of grace. The story also reveals our calling to serve in God’s great vineyard. We all have a special place where we can make a difference for people around us. Jesus calls us to trust Him as we step out in faith and allow the gospel to shine through us.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 20:1–16 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 8–16. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `