---
title: A Matter of Trust
date: 01/09/2024
---

#### inGest

The scenario Jesus depicted in this parable was familiar to His audience. In that time, laborers often stood in the marketplace waiting to be employed for the day. Perhaps some in the crowd had themselves been workers hoping for a job. Once a landowner chose a worker, they reached an agreement regarding wages. In the parable, the first group, working from the start of the day, agreed on one denarius for the work. This wage was reasonable; it was a standard day’s wage for an unskilled worker in first-century Judea. A few hours later, the landowner found more laborers “standing idle in the marketplace” (Matt. 20:3). This doesn’t mean they were lazy; they simply had yet to receive an invitation to work for someone. Immediately after the landowner extended an invitation, these workers entered the vineyard. This scene repeated itself three more times throughout the day, ending in the evening.

There’s a major difference between the first group of workers and those who came later in the day. It’s not just the shorter workday; the real difference is they didn’t have a work contract. They didn’t know what they were going to earn, but they trusted the landowner, who said, “Whatever is right I will give you” (v. 4). Would we enter such a work contract today? I suppose it would depend on whether it was “right” for us or for our employer! We would likely have questions about such an arrangement. However, it would be different if we knew the employer to be a fair, honest, and extremely generous person. Then the statement, “Whatever is right I will give you” would be appealing.

The parable takes on a deeper meaning when we identify God as the landowner. He invites us to work in His vineyard, which is the world. According to Jesus, work must be done to spread the gospel to all nations before the end comes (Matt. 24:14). He first invited the nation of Israel to spread a knowledge of God’s character, and the blessings and curses of Deuteronomy 28 clearly describe the recompense promised for their actions. They knew what they could expect regardless of whether they chose to accept God’s invitation or reject it. Some Israelites heeded the call, but sadly, many did not. Later, the call to “work in the vineyard” was extended to the Gentiles. They too were promised “whatever is right.” This invitation is given to all who receive Jesus as their Messiah, and the agreement is based on trust.

The parable speaks to us today, whether we are full-time church workers, entrepreneurs, ministry leaders, lay evangelists, students, or at-home parents. We all have a sphere of influence that can be used to spread the good news about Jesus. When we respond to God’s call to work in His vineyard, He takes care of us. So, what are the wages? A few seconds into eternity, we will know God gives what is right! Eternity is our reward, and it is equally available to all. However, the joy of service can start now. Our reward includes the wonderful experiences we gain with Jesus when we share His love with others.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Have you discovered your spiritual gifts? How can you use them to witness to others?`

`What do you consider to be the rewards of your service?`