---
title: Eleventh-hour Workers
date: 02/09/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Toward the end of the day, the landowner realized he needed more laborers to finish the work. Back at the market, he found more workers willing to enter the vineyard. These eleventh-hour laborers worked for only one hour. The parable ends in a remarkable and unexpected way. The landowner could have first paid those who had worked all day. They would have happily received the denarius they agreed on and left satisfied. Instead, the landowner made them stand in the back of the line, and they saw the eleventh-hour workers receiving the same payment they had agreed on. How would you respond if you had worked all day? Your first reaction would probably be to do some simple math. One hour = one denarius, so twelve hours = twelve denarii! When reality hit and you only got one denarius, what’s the next reaction? “This is not fair!” That is exactly the response of the laborers who had worked since the first hour.

The parable reveals a simple yet vitally important gospel principle: we cannot earn our reward. It is simply a gift of grace, offered equally to everyone who responds to Jesus’ call. We deserve nothing. Salvation is simply a gift to be received by faith, not by works. Remember the parable of the prodigal son? He left and squandered everything only to return to his father, who organized a feast. The older brother was very upset, as it seemed unfair. We can either live our lives on a contract basis with God, expecting rewards for our work, or we can trust Him, knowing He will always give us what is right.

Discontentment sets in when we don’t consider other workers on our team. If the goal is to complete the work in the vineyard, it doesn’t really matter what everyone is paid. Our focus becomes, “We finished the work!” and the first workers can rejoice with the eleventh-hour workers. If the goal is salvation, let’s celebrate every prodigal son! How freeing to live by simply trusting God with “whatever is right” (Matt. 20:4, 7)!

This parable stretches over a day of twelve hours. In a special way, the eleventh-hour workers are called to help all the other workers finish the job. When we think of this parable as spanning the history of the world, we are living in the eleventh hour. Prophecy is being fulfilled before our eyes, and soon this world will be reaped at the Second Coming. We are all called to use our talents and spiritual gifts to proclaim the gospel to the world. We can join the work in the vineyard as eleventh-hour workers. Perhaps you’re waiting in the marketplace—waiting to be hired or looking for opportunities to serve. Take a step of faith and ask God where you can serve best in your local setting. He is inviting you into His vineyard.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can the mindset that God will give “whatever is right” set us free? What does it free us from?`