---
title: Looking unto Jesus
date: 04/09/2024
---

#### inVite

The call to labor and reward of grace described in the parable reveal how God’s kingdom works. Those who responded to the call trusted the landowner as we are to trust God’s dealings with us today. The key is to look to Christ. Some workers in the parable became frustrated when they compared themselves with others. The moment our eyes stray from Jesus and focus on others, we miss the amazing reward Christ has for us. When Peter took his eyes off Jesus and looked at the other disciples and the waves surrounding him, he began to sink (Matt. 14:29, 30). He could only walk on water while he gazed at the One who could enable him to do what was humanly impossible. The vineyard in the parable represents the work we are called to participate in. We cannot, in human strength, accomplish the task of preaching the gospel to the world. We need power from above.

The concept of finishing the work is also described as finishing the race. The apostle Paul wrote, “Therefore we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith” (Heb. 12:1, 2). In Paul’s last letter to Timothy, a fellow gospel worker, he reflected on his life of service: “For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Finally, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will give to me on that Day, and not to me only but also to all who have loved His appearing” (2 Tim. 4:6–8). Paul looked forward to his final reward with confidence, because he could look back on a life lived in service. He had trusted Jesus and kept his eyes on Him until the very end. He had completed the race that was set before him. We are part of an even greater race. It’s like a relay race: Paul passed the baton to Timothy, who ran his race and passed the baton to the next generation of gospel workers. Many centuries have passed, and the baton has now been given to us. What are we going to do with it?

Let’s pause and ask ourselves some deep and important questions: What do I want to do with the life God has given me? What do I want to accomplish with the years I will spend on this planet? Am I running the race that matters? Am I fighting the good fight that matters? In ten, twenty, thirty, or forty years, will I look back on my life with satisfaction? When you have a clear vision ahead of you, run the race set before you, looking ever unto Jesus!

`How does the prospect of eternity change our earthly perspective of what matters most?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you personally through the text of the week?`

`Prayer Response:`