---
title:  Transparency and Justice
date:  08/06/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 16**

**Transparency and Justice**

The Watergate scandal of 1970 exposed corruption, illegal spying, and coverups within President Richard Nixon’s administration. The persistent efforts of investigative journalists to expose the scandal demonstrated the role a free press plays in holding those in power accountable, especially when there’s a lack of transparency surrounding their activities. This scandal led to the indictment and conviction of numerous high-ranking officials. Justice prevailed, affirming that no one, including the president, is above the law. Nixon’s resignation in 1974 marked the climax of the scandal, reinforcing the importance of transparency and unbiased justice in maintaining a democratic society.

From the beginning, the great controversy has centered around the fairness of God’s leadership. His character has been questioned; doubts regarding His integrity have been suggested. Satan claimed to be able to form a government that would be more transparent than God’s, with laws that would be more just. These accusations had to be dealt with in a public and open manner, in no small part because they were made in a public and open manner. Through Christ’s death on the cross, God vindicated His character to the heavenly beings. For them, His death silenced any doubts about His intentions; His goodness shown through and unmasked Satan’s falsehoods and lies. Christ’s death allows God to legally restore fallen humanity to its original sinless state and its special role in God’s kingdom while also providing justice for the harm sin has caused and answering the numerous questions about God and His actions. That one monumental act of love demonstrated to the entire universe why God alone is worthy to be Judge over all.

The judgment, with its complex and multifaceted procedures, will ensure that sin will never rise again while also establishing free will and true love as the foundations for all eternal relationships. God’s judgments will once again demonstrate God’s character of justice and mercy blended together. The onlooking universe will again acknowledge the fairness and goodness of God’s leadership. And as a judgment that is made “in favor of the saints” (Dan. 7:22), all who trust God can look forward to this judgment with assurance.

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 16 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 29 and 30. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._