---
title:  Genuine Repentance
date:  09/06/2024
---

#### inGest

The practices of the earthly sanctuary, given to the Israelites at Mount Sinai, vividly illustrate the great themes of salvation. The wilderness sanctuary is a miniature copy of God’s real sanctuary in heaven, where Jesus ministers as our High Priest (Exod. 25:9; Heb. 8:1–6). The sanctuary system explains God’s work of salvation and justice on a granular, immersive, and educational level. God’s judgment process is specifically represented through the Day of Atonement. Various rituals performed on that day have their eschatological echo in the final judgment, also known as the antitypical day of atonement.

The sanctuary system, established by God Himself, included a daily and yearly cycle of activities and festivals, all based on the Tabernacle. The more prominent daily activities included all kinds of sacrifices for a variety of different sins (see Lev. 1–7). Each sacrifice taught the Israelites the need for the substitutionary death of an innocent life to satisfy the law. This served as a daily reminder to the Israelites that God had promised to provide a substitute (Gen. 22:11–14).

While these daily, symbolic sacrificial services provided forgiveness and grace to the repenting Israelites, God’s justice also needed to be explained. That’s where the annual Day of Atonement as outlined in Leviticus 16 and 23:26–32 comes into play. All who had repented and claimed the sacrifice for their sins were safe, for the animal symbolically took the penalty that justice required. However, the originator of sin, and any unrepentant individual, would have to bear their sin and its consequences alone, as illustrated by the scapegoat (vv. 20–22). In addition, the authenticity of a believer’s repentance was expressed by deep heart-searching and afflicting of soul on the Day of Atonement (v. 29). This activity of self-examination helped ensure the Israelite’s genuine contrition so that their sin would be not only forgiven but legally blotted out as well. Anyone who refused this offer of grace and atonement “on that same day shall be cut off from his people” (Lev. 23:29).

The Day of Atonement was a solemn experience for the Israelites. Its implications should make every Christian pause. It teaches us that salvation is about not only the forgiveness of sin but also uprooting sin’s cause. In other words, am I truly sorry for the sin I repent of, which leads to no more indulgence in it? or am I only sorry that I got caught and therefore keep going back to it?

God desires to bring about true and lasting repentance in us. Through Christ, faith in His Word, and the ministry of the Holy Spirit, we are provided with both pardon and power. He stands ready to give us victory over our addictions and sins. He understands that, sometimes, this change doesn’t happen overnight and can take time, but either way, His victory is available. We must claim it if we want our sins to be blotted out.

Journal:

`How does the Day of Atonement illustrate the concept of justice for both the repentant and unrepentant?`

`Which sins have you not truly repented of? Why not pray right now and give them to Jesus?`