---
title:  Cosmic Courtroom
date:  10/06/2024
---

#### inTerpret

In many ways, the great controversy unfolds like a court case. In one sense, God is on trial for Satan’s charges against Him, and in another sense, humans are on trial for Satan’s accusations against them and to satisfy the demands of God’s law. In a third sense, Satan and his legions of fallen angels are on trial for their rebellion and sins. Justice must be served in every aspect of this case. It is a legal situation of epic proportions and complexity. The judgment will address and resolve all these things.

The end goal of the judgment is for every being in the universe, whether unfallen, saved, or lost, to know the truth about God’s character and Satan’s lies. It will also explain why some are redeemed and will live forever while others will be destroyed and cease to exist. In the end, all will acknowledge the righteousness of God’s judgments. Every case will end with saints and angels declaring, “Just and true are Your ways” (Rev. 15:3). To accomplish this monumental task, the judgment unfolds in three phases: the investigative judgment, the millennial judgment, and the executive judgment.

The Investigative Judgment: Any court that follows the proper process takes time to investigate the evidence before settling on a verdict. The court in heaven, which determines eternal destinies, is no exception; it is careful to consider all the evidence in its investigation. Every record is examined in the full view of innumerable angels, who are no doubt interested in seeing that God isn’t making any mistakes (Dan. 7:10). Various aspects of this solemn judgment were foreshadowed by the Day of Atonement. The Israelites knew this day to be one of judgment wherein those who searched their souls and repented could remain in the community while those who didn’t had to be cut off (Lev. 23:29). Before Jesus returns, each and every one of our eternal fates will be determined. Our Advocate, Lawyer, and Savior, Jesus, is there, making sure everyone covered by His blood is saved. Any claims of the law and of Satan against the saved will be legally dismissed, for they are covered by Christ’s righteousness. After every case has been decided, Jesus will come to reward every person according to his or her choices (Rev. 22:12).

The Millennial Judgment: The second phase of the judgment will begin at Jesus’ second coming and will last for 1,000 years (Rev. 20:4–6). During this millennium, the redeemed will participate in the judgment process by reviewing the records of the unrighteous as well as the actions of the fallen angels (1 Cor. 6:3). This phase of the judgment allows the redeemed to understand God’s choices and to confirm that His decisions are fair and righteous.

The Executive Judgment: The third phase of the judgment takes place after the millennium, when every case has been reviewed and the rulings understood. Satan, the demons, and the resurrected wicked will be destroyed by consuming fire, and all sin will be forever eradicated (Rev. 21:4, 27).

God is love and justice. One cannot exist without the other. As messy as this life and cosmic war can be, we can take courage, for one day soon, it will all be in the past. Justice will have been served, all trauma will have been healed, and every living creature will again be in harmony with God, the law, and each other.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`In what way should understanding God’s judgment impact the way you live your daily life?`