---
title:  Confidence in Our High Priest
date:  12/06/2024
---

#### inVite

The role of the high priest in Israel was multifaceted. He was the spiritual leader of the people and carried the most sacred responsibilities. As the only person allowed to enter the Most Holy Place—and only on the Day of Atonement—he conducted special rituals and sacrifices. The high priest also served as an intercessor and had judicial authority over the people. Even with all these responsibilities, however, he was still a sinful human being—only a shadow of our true, perfect, and sinless High Priest, Jesus Christ.

The heavenly sanctuary, of which the earthly was simply an illustrative copy, is where Jesus works to apply the benefits of His life, death, and resurrection to believers. Christ ascended to heaven in human form, which acts as a sign that He went to be our Representative, Advocate, and Intercessor. As Ellen White puts it, “In taking our nature, the Saviour has bound Himself to humanity by a tie that is never to be broken. Through the eternal ages He is linked with us” (The Desire of Ages [1898], 25). Having lived as one of us, Jesus is there working on our behalf. He is our guarantee and assurance that we are not overlooked, forgotten, or misunderstood, “For we do not have a High Priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need” (Heb. 4:15, 16).

This shared experience is why we can have confidence in Jesus’ grace, guidance, and support in the judgment hour. Just like the Israelites engaged in deep heart searching, we too should take a serious look at our lives and let the Holy Spirit shine into every corner of our hearts. The investigative judgment is drawing to a close. It’s a solemn time, and we should not trifle with sin for even a moment. Satan knows how truly short his time is and will throw everything at believers to distract, discourage, and entice them to feel comfortable in sin.

If there were ever a time to be serious and committed, it is today! We have work of the utmost importance to do: the worldwide proclamation of God’s end-time call to repentance. Our salvation depends not on our performance but on Jesus. God has called us to live in grace-enabled surrender, in devotion to Him and His mission, and in gratitude for His abundant love and mercy. His perfect love casts out all fear and emboldens our work of witnessing for Him. Jesus combined His divinity with our humanity so that we, as humans, can become “partakers of the divine nature” (2 Pet. 1:4).

Many people struggle with walking consistently with God, but those who grasp Jesus’ work as our High Priest have a hope that can solidly anchor them. As Hebrews 6 says, “This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, and which enters the Presence behind the veil, where the forerunner has entered for us, even Jesus, having become High Priest forever” (vv. 19, 20). An understanding of what Jesus is currently doing for us will give us a confidence and assurance that nothing can take away.

Journal:

`Meditate on Leviticus 16 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What keeps you from totally trusting Jesus as a faithful High Priest and Savior?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`