---
title:  Worshiping Our Creator And Redeemer
date:  09/12/2018
---

In discussions about worship, we often highlight elements of worship, what it includes and how it is done. But what is the deep meaning of worship? What does it mean to worship God? And why do we do it? In Psalm 29:2, David states: “Give unto the Lord the glory due to His name; worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness” (Ps. 29:2, NKJV). This psalm points us in the right direction to understand the meaning of worship. To worship the Lord is to give Him the glory and honor He deserves.

`Read Revelation 4 and 5. What reasons do the inhabitants of heaven give for worshiping God and Jesus, the Lamb of God? See Rev. 4:8, 11; 5:9, 10, 12, 13.`

This depiction of worship in the throne room of heaven as Jesus is introduced as the Lamb of God and Savior of the world is awe- inspiring. Worship happens when God’s creation responds to Him with words of adoration and thankfulness for what He has done. Worship is the response of a grateful person for God’s creation and salvation. At the end of time, the redeemed also will join in adoration and respond in a similar way to God’s salvation. “ ‘Great and marvelous are Your works, Lord God Almighty! Just and true are Your ways, O King of the saints! Who shall not fear You, O Lord, and glorify Your name? For You alone are holy. For all nations shall come and worship before You, for Your judgments have been manifested’ ” (Rev. 15:3, 4, NKJV).

So, worship is a response of our faith in God for His mighty works: first, for creating us, and, second, for redeeming us. In worship we give to God the adoration, reverence, praise, love, and obedience we believe He is worthy to receive. Of course, what we know about God, as our Creator and Savior, comes from what He revealed to us in Scripture. Furthermore, what Christians know about God was revealed more fully in the person and ministry of Jesus (see John 14:8-14). That is why Christians worship Jesus as Savior and Redeemer, as His sacrificial death and resurrection are at the very core of worship.

When Christians come together in worship, it is out of this sense of awe and thankfulness that our worship should proceed.

`Think about what we have been given in Christ as our Creator and Savior, about what He has spared us from, and about what He offers us—all because He willingly died in our stead. Why should these truths be the foundation of all our worship?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[God] desires every soul to triumph in the keeping power of the Redeemer. The psalmist says: “Give unto the Lord, O ye mighty, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto His name; worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness.” . . . Psalm 29:1, 2. . . .  

The church of God below is one with the church of God above. Believers on the earth and the beings in heaven who have never fallen constitute one church. Every heavenly intelligence is interested in the assemblies of the saints who on earth meet to worship God. In the inner court of heaven they listen to the testimony of the witnesses for Christ in the outer court on earth, and the praise and thanksgiving from the worshipers below is taken up in the heavenly anthem, and praise and rejoicing sound through the heavenly courts because Christ has not died in vain for the fallen sons of Adam.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 6, p. 366.

The crowning glory of Christ’s attributes is His holiness. The angels bow before Him in adoration, exclaiming, “Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty.” Revelation 4:8. He is declared to be glorious in His holiness. Study the character of God. By beholding Christ, by seeking Him in faith and prayer, you may become like Him.—_Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students_, p. 402.

The whole of the natural world bears testimony of the works of the living God. Nature is our lesson book, given to us by God, the Creator of all things. These things of nature are not to be called God. They are the expression of God’s character, but they are not God. By the things of His creation, we may understand God, and His love, His power, and His glory, but there is a great danger of men worshiping nature as God. 

 . . . The Lord’s power is constantly revealed as a miracle-working power, that the human family may see an infinity above and beyond the things made, that they may know that He who formed such a being as man, has also created all the beauties of the natural world.—_This Day With God_, p. 273.

Our house of worship may be very humble, but it is none the less acknowledged by God. If we worship in spirit and in truth and in the beauty of holiness, it will be to us the very gate of heaven. As lessons of the wondrous works of God are repeated, and as the heart’s gratitude is expressed in prayer and song, angels from heaven take up the strain and unite in praise and thanksgiving to God. These exercises drive back the power of Satan. They expel murmurings and complainings, and Satan loses ground. 

God teaches us that we should assemble in His house to cultivate the attributes of perfect love. This will fit the dwellers of earth for the mansions Christ has gone to prepare for those who love Him, where, from Sabbath to Sabbath, from one new moon to another, they will assemble in the sanctuary to unite in loftier strains of song, in thanksgiving and praise to Him that sitteth upon the throne and to the Lamb forever and ever.—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 288.