---
title:  False Worship
date:  10/12/2018
---

`Read Matthew 4:8, 9. What was Jesus’ third temptation in the wilderness?`

With pride and arrogance, Satan declared himself to be the rightful ruler of the world, the owner of all its riches and glory, claiming the honor and respect of all who live in it, as if he had created the world. What an insult to God, the Creator. Satan revealed that he knows exactly what worship is about: it is to give honor and respect to the rightful owner of the universe.

`Compare the experience of the three Hebrew friends in Daniel 3 (especially verses 8-18) with that of the believers who will face the end-time power of Revelation 13:4 and 14:9-11. What is at stake at the time of the end? What is the core issue in both accounts?`

From Cain and Abel, to the three Hebrew boys in Babylon, to final events regarding “the mark of the beast” (Rev. 16:2), Satan seeks to establish a false system of worship, one that takes people away from the true God and, even if subtly, direct worship toward himself. After all, even from before the Fall, he wanted to be like God (Isa. 14:14). It’s no coincidence that just as the three young men faced the threat of death unless they were to worship an “image,” in the last days God’s faithful people will face the threat of death unless they will worship an “image,” as well. Why worship any “image” when we are called to worship the true God instead?

“Important are the lessons to be learned from the experience of the Hebrew youth on the plain of Dura. . . .

“The season of distress before God’s people will call for a faith that will not falter. His children must make it manifest that He is the only object of their worship, and that no consideration, not even that of life itself, can induce them to make the least concession to false worship. To the loyal heart the commands of sinful, finite men will sink into insignificance beside the word of the eternal God. Truth will be obeyed though the result be imprisonment or exile or death.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 512, 513.

`What are different ways, even now, that we can be tempted into worshiping anyone else other than the only Being worthy of our worship? How might false worship be a more subtle threat than we realize? What are some things that we might even now be tempted to worship?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Satan beguiles men now as he beguiled Eve in Eden by flattery, by kindling a desire to obtain forbidden knowledge, by exciting ambition for self-exaltation. It was cherishing these evils that caused his fall, and through them he aims to compass the ruin of men. “Ye shall be as gods,” he declares, “knowing good and evil.” Genesis 3:5. Spiritualism teaches “that man is the creature of progression; that it is his destiny from his birth to progress, even to eternity, toward the Godhead.” . . . Said a spiritualistic teacher, as the “spiritual consciousness” awoke within him: “My fellow men, all were unfallen demigods.” And another declares: “Any just and perfect being is Christ.” 

Thus, in place of the righteousness and perfection of the infinite God, the true object of adoration; in place of the perfect righteousness of His law, the true standard of human attainment, Satan has substituted the sinful, erring nature of man himself as the only object of adoration, the only rule of judgment, or standard of character.—_The Great Controversy_, pp. 554, 555.

The appointed day has come, and the vast company is assembled, when word is brought to the king that the three Hebrews whom he has set over the province of Babylon have refused to worship the image. . . . Full of rage, the monarch calls them before him, and pointing to the angry furnace, tells them the punishment that will be theirs if they refuse obedience to his will.  

In vain were the king’s threats. He could not turn these noble men from their allegiance to the great Ruler of nations. They had learned from the history of their fathers that disobedience to God is dishonor, disaster, and ruin; that the fear of the Lord is not only the beginning of wisdom but the foundation of all true prosperity. They look with calmness upon the fiery furnace and the idolatrous throng. They have trusted in God, and He will not fail them now. Their answer is respectful, but decided: “Be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up” (Daniel 3:18).—_The Sanctified Life_, p. 37. 

The Lord urges His supremacy. But Satan well knows that the worship of the living God elevates, ennobles, and exalts a nation. He knows that idol-worship does not elevate, but that it degrades man’s ideas, by associating with worship that which is base and corrupt. He is at work constantly to draw the mind away from the only true and living God. . . . 

Let men worship and serve the Lord God, and Him only. Let not selfish pride be lifted up and served as a god. Let not money be made a god. If sensuality is not kept under the control of the higher powers of the mind, base passion will rule the being. Anything that is made the subject of undue thought and admiration, absorbing the mind, is a god chosen before the Lord. God is a searcher of the heart. He distinguishes between true heart-service and idolatry.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 4, p. 1145. 