---
title:  The First Angel’s Message
date:  11/12/2018
---

Seventh-day Adventists see the three angels’ messages of Revelation 14:6-12 as depicting their mission and the core of their message just before the second coming of Jesus (Rev. 14:14-20). These are the important messages to be preached with “a loud voice” to all inhabitants of the earth.

`Read Revelation 14:6, 7. What is the first angel’s message, and what does it say about God? Why is there a reference to worship in this message?`

The first of the three angels’ messages proclaims a message to the entire world. This is the fulfillment of Jesus’ prediction in Matthew 24:14. There is a sense of urgency and haste in the depiction of these three angels and their mission. The first message urges people to focus on God because “ ‘the hour of His judgment has come’ ” (Rev. 14:7, NKJV). The second coming of Jesus is the catalyst for the judgment.

“ ‘Fear God,’ ” the angel says (Rev. 14:7). For those who do not take God seriously, this message and call to action will indeed generate fear in their mind. But for those who have been followers of Jesus, this call invites awe and respect. They look up to God and see the fulfillment of His promises. A sense of grateful reverence for God overtakes them.

“ ‘And worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water’ ” (Rev. 14:7, NKJV). This language makes an unmistakable allusion to the Sabbath commandment, with its reference to Creation (see Exod. 20:8-11). The God of Creation, who instituted the Sabbath as a memorial of His creative power, is the One who is to be worshiped and revered.

It is interesting to note that at the end of time worship is identified as a key issue in the great controversy for the allegiance of the human race. This worldwide announcement is a call to worship the Creator.

“The central issue in the final crisis will be worship. Revelation makes clear that the test will not be denial of worship, but rather who is worshiped. At the time of the end, only two groups of people will be in the world: those who fear and worship the true God (11:1, 18; 14:7) and those who hate the truth and are worshipers of the dragon and the beast (13:4-8, 14:9-11). . . .

“If worship is the central issue in the final conflict, no wonder then that God sends His end-time gospel urging the inhabitants of the earth to take Him seriously and worship Him as the Creator, the only One worthy of worship.”—Ranko Stefanovic, Revelation of Jesus Christ: Commentary on the Book of Revelation (Berrien Springs, Mich.: Andrews University Press, 2002), pp. 444, 445.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God’s claim to reverence and worship, above the gods of the heathen, is based upon the fact that He is the Creator, and that to Him all other beings owe their existence. Thus it is presented in the Bible. . . . The Sabbath, as a memorial of God’s creative power, points to Him as the maker of the heavens and the earth. Hence it is a constant witness to His existence and a reminder of His greatness, His wisdom, and His love. Had the Sabbath always been sacredly observed, there could never have been an atheist or an idolater.—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, p. 336.

In this age, just prior to the second coming of Christ in the clouds of heaven, God calls for men who will prepare a people to stand in the great day of the Lord. Just such a work as that which John did, is to be carried on in these last days. The Lord is giving messages to His people, through the instruments He has chosen, and He would have all heed the admonitions and warnings He sends. . . . Our message is not to be one of peace and safety. As a people who believe in Christ’s soon appearing, we have a definite message to bear,—“Prepare to meet thy God.” . . .

In this time of well-nigh universal apostasy, God calls upon His messengers to proclaim His law in the spirit and power of Elias. As John the Baptist, in preparing a people for Christ’s first advent, called their attention to the Ten Commandments, so we are to give, with no uncertain sound, the message: “Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come.” With the earnestness that characterized Elijah the prophet and John the Baptist, we are to strive to prepare the way for Christ’s second advent.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 4, p. 1184. 

Those who have a hold of the truth theoretically, with their finger tips as it were, who have not brought its principles into the inner sanctuary of the soul, but have kept the vital truth in the outer court, will see nothing sacred in the past history of this people which has made them what they are, and has established them as earnest, determined, missionary workers in the world. 

The truth for this time is precious, but those whose hearts have not been broken by falling on the rock Christ Jesus, will not see and understand what is truth. They will accept that which pleases their ideas, and will begin to manufacture another foundation than that which is laid. They will flatter their own vanity and esteem, thinking that they are capable of removing the pillars of our faith, and replacing them with pillars they have devised.—_Selected Messages_, bk. 2, pp. 388, 389.