---
title:  Further Thought
date:  14/12/2018
---

Read the articles “Prayer,” pp. 1044-1046, and “Worship,” pp. 1290, 1291, in The Ellen G. White Encyclopedia.

“ ‘The importance of the Sabbath as the memorial of creation is that it keeps ever present the true reason why worship is due to God’—because He is the Creator, and we are His creatures. ‘The Sabbath therefore lies at the very foundation of divine worship, for it teaches this great truth in the most impressive manner, and no other institution does this. The true ground of divine worship, not of that on the seventh day merely, but of all worship, is found in the distinction between the Creator and His creatures. This great fact can never become obsolete, and must never be forgotten.’—J. N. Andrews, History of the Sabbath, chapter 27. It was to keep this truth ever before the minds of men, that God instituted the Sabbath in Eden; and so long as the fact that He is our Creator continues to be a reason why we should worship Him, so long the Sabbath will continue as its sign and memorial. Had the Sabbath been universally kept, man’s thoughts and affections would have been led to the Creator as the object of reverence and worship, and there would never have been an idolater, an atheist, or an infidel. The keeping of the Sabbath is a sign of loyalty to the true God, ‘Him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.’ It follows that the message which commands men to worship God and keep His commandments will especially call upon them to keep the fourth commandment.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 437, 438.

**Discussion Questions**

`Since the biblical concepts of worship, creation, and salvation are so closely intertwined, how do you think the celebration of the Sabbath could be God’s antidote to false worship? What role does the Sabbath play in this end-time prophecy of Revelation 14:6, 7? Why is the Sabbath referred to in the first angel’s message?`

`Oftentimes we talk about worship as a matter of content—things we should do or not do during worship. Is that good enough? What is worship really about? How is your local church experiencing meaningful worship?`

`In some societies, Christian community worship slowly is being forgotten or abandoned, even in Adventist communities. What can your local church do to counter this trend?`

**Summary**: Worship is the Christian believer’s thankful response to God for His gift of salvation. It also is an essential element of the Christian community’s experience of unity and fellowship. Without prayer and Bible study in a desire to know God’s truth for us, our community will fail to experience oneness in Christ.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_That I May Know Him_, “Cast Out Every Idol,” p. 322.