---
title:  The Most Powerful Proof That Jesus Is Our Savior
date:   24/11/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
John 11:51, 52; 2 Corinthians 5:17–21; Ephesians 4:25–5:2; Romans 14:1– 6; Luke 22:24

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Caiaphas did not think of these words himself. He spoke what God had said would [will] happen. He was telling [the Jews] before it [Jesus’ death] happened that Jesus must die for the nation. He must die not only for the nation, but also to bring together into one group the children of God who were living in many places” (John 11:51, 52, NLV).

LAST WEEK, we saw that God gave our church a message to share with everyone on earth. This message also shows our unity. Unity is agreement. As a church, we show we are in agreement when we join as one in heart, mind, and belief. Jesus and the Bible are the center of our beliefs and message. We are who we are because of this message.

This week, we will look at what it means for our church to experience unity in everyday life. Jesus told us that the church must do more than share God’s truth. The church itself also must live the truth. Then everyone on earth will see the saving work of Jesus and believe in His power. But if church members are not joined in agreement, then no one on this earth will see the saving power of the cross. “Our being joined as one in Jesus also joins us in agreement with each other. This agreement or unity is the most powerful proof of Jesus’ power to take away sin.” —Ellen G.White Comments [ideas], The SDA Bible Commentary [explanation], volume 5, page 1148, adapted.
