---
title:  Under the Cross of Jesus
date:   25/11/2018
---

God blesses His church with many gifts. One of these gifts is church unity. You will remember that unity is agreement. As a church, we show we are in agreement when we join together as one in heart, mind, and belief. Unity is not made by humans. Unity does not happen in the church because of anything good we do or by our own good behavior. Jesus gives us unity when we accept His death and forgiveness for our sins and are baptized. Then we join in Christian friendship with other believers to share the Three Angels’ Messages with everyone on the earth. Our sharing this message helps make us one with God and joins us together as one family.

`John 11:51, 52 and Ephesians 1:7–10 tell us the reason for our unity as Seventh-day Adventists. What did Jesus do on this earth that joins us as one?`

“Caiaphas did not think of these words himself. He spoke what God had said would [will] happen. He [Caiaphas] was telling [the Jews] before it [Jesus’ death] happened that Jesus must die for the nation. He must die not only for the nation, but also to bring together into one group the children of God who were living in many places” (John 11:51, 52, NLV). It seems strange that God used Caiaphas to explain the meaning of Jesus’ death. Caiaphas did not understand what he did when he judged that Jesus should be put to death. Caiaphas did not understand why his words about Jesus really were true. But the Bible uses those words to show a deeper truth about how Jesus’ death helped all of God’s loyal people everywhere.

As Seventh-day Adventists, Jesus’ death is why we can be in agreement. We start to experience this agreement when we believe in Jesus and get baptized (Galatians 3:26, 27). Baptism shows our faith in Jesus. Baptism helps connect us with other Adventists. Baptism also is a word picture for our faith in Jesus. We all have one Father in Heaven. We are all God’s sons and daughters. We have the same Savior. We are baptized by faith. By faith when we are baptized, we join Jesus in His death and in His waking up from the dead.

`There may be many differences among us as Seventh- day Adventists. But why should our faith in Jesus be more powerful than anything that separates us?`
