---
title:  Jesus' Work to Bring Us Back to God
date:   26/11/2018
---

Human history on Planet Earth is filled with wars and troubles. Sometimes, it seems that all the trouble and fighting will never end. But all disagreements and wars will not go on forever. God works with His people to end disagreements and fighting and to bring everything in heaven and on earth into unity. We learned that unity is agreement. God wants to join everyone in heaven and on earth in one heart, mind, and belief in Jesus.

In Ephesians 2:13–16, Paul talks about what Jesus did to bring peace to believers. Jesus died on the cross. His death made both Jews and non-Jews one people. Jesus’ death broke the “walls” of race and religion that separated them. Jesus did that for both the Jews and the non-Jews in the first century a.d. [years 1–100]. Just think what He can do for us in our time! He can break any “wall” of race or way of life that separates people in our own church today. Then we can reach out to everyone on the earth with the truth that Jesus saves humans from their sins.

`In 2 Corinthians 5:17–21, Paul says that Jesus makes us new in Him and brings us back to God. How does this truth show us the work that God wants us to do for every- one on this earth? When we join as one in the truth, what difference can our church make in the lives of people?`

When Jesus makes us new, God gives us special work to do for Him. This work has three parts: (1) God wants us to invite people everywhere to come back to Him and join us in our work for Him. We, too, were separated from God. But the Holy Spirit joined us to God by our faith in Jesus’ death for us. Now we belong to God’s end-time people. He chose us to give His final message of warning to everyone on earth before Jesus comes back. (2) God wants His people to show everyone on the earth that Jesus is our Savior. How do we do that? Our joining as one in Jesus proves that He is our Savior. When we are joined as one with Jesus, then we also will be joined as one with other believers in Christian love (John 13:35). (3) When we join as one with each other in love and truth, then we show everyone in heaven and on earth that God’s plan to save us is true and powerful. Then everyone in heaven and on earth will see that God’s plan to save us is full of wisdom and love.
