---
title:  A Power for Good
date:   27/11/2018
---

In 1902, Ellen G. White wrote, “Every Christian needs to be what Jesus was in His life on this earth. He is our example. He did not do any evil. He also was patient and gentle. His behavior won people’s love.”—Signs of the Times, July 16, 1902, adapted. These words help us remember Paul’s words in his letter to the Philippians: “In your lives you must think and act like [the same as] Jesus” (Philippians 2:5, ICB).

`Read Ephesians 4:25–5:2 and Colossians 3:1–17 and then answer these two questions: (1) In what parts of our lives can we show that we are loyal to Jesus? (2) How can we share the Good News about Jesus with the people that we see every day?`

Many verses in the Bible encourage Christians to follow Jesus’ example and show God’s mercy to other people. The Bible also asks us to do good to other people (Matthew 7:12); to help carry their heavy loads (Galatians 6:2); to live in a way that is spiritual, not empty (Matthew 16:24–26; 1 Peter 3:3, 4); and to be healthy (1 Corinthians 10:31).

“Dear friends, you are like [the same as] visitors and strangers in this world [on earth]. So I beg you to stay away from the evil things your bodies want to do. These things fight against your soul. People who do not believe are living all around you. They might [may] say that you are doing wrong. So live good lives. Then they will see the good things you do, and they will give glory to God on the day when Christ [Jesus] comes again” (1 Peter 2:11, 12, ICB). We often do not understand that our lives have the power to change the lives of people around us. When people around Jesus became upset or angry, Jesus always stayed calm and patient. Jesus never gave up or stopped doing His duty even when life got tough or hard. He was gentle when people around Him were mean and unkind. The Bible invites us to show to everyone the same spirit that Jesus showed to people who did not know God. Then we will become a power for good and for God’s glory. We also must show people that we care about them. When we as Seventh-day Adventists join as one in this work, then we will be powerful witnesses.

`How can you show Jesus to the people around you?`
