---
title:  Jesus Joins Us as One Even when We have Disagreements
date:   28/11/2018
---

In Romans 14 and 15, Paul talks about the problems that divided the church at Rome. Paul asks the Roman church members to be patient with each other and not to allow their disagreements to separate them. What can we learn from Paul’s advice to the church at Rome?

`In Romans 14:1–6, Paul talks about some of the dis- agreements in the church at Rome. These disagreements caused members to judge each other. What were these disagreements?`

No doubt the problems in the church at Rome were about Jewish rules and laws. Paul’s words in Romans 14:1 tell us that fighting over the answers to these problems was wrong. The answers to these problems were not important. They had nothing to do with anyone being saved. Paul felt that each believer should decide what God wanted him or her to do. But no one should force his or her beliefs or choices on anyone else.

These disagreements first started over eating food. Let us be very clear here. Paul is not talking about the clean and unclean food laws in Leviticus 11. There is no proof that the Christians in Paul’s time started eating pork or other unclean animals. We also know that Peter did not eat unclean foods (read Acts 10:14). Paul is talking about some believers in the church at Rome who did not eat at fellow- ship meals. Maybe they felt the food at the meals was not cooked in the right way. Or maybe they refused to eat the food at fellowship meals because they thought that someone offered the food first to statues of false gods.

There also is a disagreement in the church about what to do on some days. We know that this disagreement has nothing to do with keeping the Sabbath holy. We know that Paul always kept the Sabbath holy (Acts 13:14; Acts 16:13; Acts 17:2). So, it seems that this disagreement is really about different Jewish feast days or days of eating no food at all. Paul wants believers to accept some differences and not try to force everyone to believe the same as they do. They already know that keeping the feast days will not save them. So, Paul feels it is OK to let people honor these days. What can we learn from this story? We must be patient and accepting with people, even when we do not agree with each other.
