---
title:  Jesus Joins Us as One in Our Work for God
date:   29/11/2018
---

`In Luke 22:24, we read about how Jesus’ followers behaved and felt about each other at the Last Supper. In Acts 1:14 and Acts 2:1, 46, we read about how Jesus’ followers behaved shortly before God poured His Spirit on them. What a big difference! What changed their lives?`

The words written as “these [Jesus’ followers] all agreed” in Acts 1:14 (NLV) and as “they all had the same purpose” in Acts 2:46 (ICB) also mean to “not give up, but to go for- ward with one mind.” Jesus’ followers were all in agreement because they came together in one place to pray for God to send them the Holy Spirit.

As Jesus’ followers waited, they did not blame or accuse each other of the mistakes they made in the past. No one told Peter he was an awful person because he turned away from Jesus (John 18:15–18; John 18:25–27). No one blamed Thomas for doubting that Jesus really woke up from the dead (John 20:25). No one blamed John and James for ask- ing Jesus to give them more power and honor than anyone else in Jesus’ kingdom (Mark 10:35–41). No one talked about how Matthew collected taxes in the past (Matthew 9:9).

Jesus’ followers did not do any of those things. The friend- ships that they shared and their prayers helped get them ready for the Holy Spirit. They grew closer to God. They put aside their personal differences. The Holy Spirit helped them to become brave witnesses for Jesus. Jesus’ followers knew that Jesus forgave their mistakes. His forgiveness helped them to feel brave to do God’s work. Jesus’ followers knew what Jesus had done for them in their lives. They trusted in the promise that Jesus saved them. “They wanted more than anything to show the love of Jesus to everyone on the earth. They also wanted to build up Jesus’ kingdom.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 48, adapted. No wonder the Lord used these people to do powerful things in His Name! What a wonderful lesson for us as a church today!

`It is always so easy to find something wrong with other people’s lives. How can we learn to forgive the mistakes of other people so that we as a church can join as one in Jesus to do God’s work?`
