---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   30/11/2018
---

Ellen G. White, “Unit y [agreement] in Diversity [differences],” pages 98–103, in Evangelism [sharing the truth about Jesus everywhere on the earth] .

The Christian church in New Testament times was joined as one in Jesus. There were many differences in the church. But the church was a powerful witness to the people around it. So, how did the church stay together as one in Jesus? “The Bible shows us that the Holy Spirit guided the New Testament church in the decisions it made. The Spirit guided the church’s decisions in three ways: (1) the Spirit told people what to do. (Examples include the stories about Cornelius, Ananias, and Philip.) (2) the Holy Spirit guided the church to use the Bible to make decisions. And (3) the Holy Spirit led the church to come together and join as one to make big decisions about things. (The Holy Spirit led the church to discuss their problems together, study the Bible for answers, and then agree on the right decisions.) The Spirit brought the church together to discuss problems when they did not agree about Bible teachings and ways of life. These meetings show us that leaders and believers must agree to come together to discuss their problems and pray about them. These examples clearly show us that the Holy Spirit led the church.”—Denis Fortin, “The Holy Spirit and the Church,” in Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, editor, Message, Mission [special work for God], and Unity [agreement] of [in] the Church, pages 321, 322, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**

`1 Is there anything that we believe and do as Seventh-day Adventists that other Seventh-day Adventists do not need to believe and do? If yes, what things are they? How do we, as a church, decide what teachings and ways of life we need to follow? How do we decide what teachings and ways of life we do not need to follow?`

`2 As Christians, we believe in the death of Jesus and His Resurrection. Jesus’ Resurrection is the teaching that Jesus died on the cross for our sins and then woke up from the dead and came back to life. How can this belief help us make strong friend- ships with other Christians?`
