---
title:  Escape From the Evil Ways of This Life
date:   20/01/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Psalm 119:11; Ephesians 6:18; Romans 8:5, 6; Hebrews 11:1–6. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Riches are of no use in the day of God’s anger, but being right with God saves [us] from death. . . . He who trusts in his riches will fall [be ruined], but those who are right with God will grow like [in the same way as] a green leaf” (Proverbs 11:4, 28, NLV). 

Satan failed to defeat Jesus. But Satan succeeded with everyone else. He will continue to ruin us if we do not fight against his lies. How do we do that? We must put on “all of God’s armor [battle suit]” (Ephesians 6:13, NIrV) and fight in His power against a love for riches. God alone offers to set us free from the power of loving the things on this earth. 

So, God must remain at the center of our thoughts. He is the One who provides for us. He will help us understand the true value of life. David learned about the true value of life. He wrote about it in his psalms. He says, “The lions may grow weak and hungry. But those who look to the LORD have every good thing they need” (Psalm 34:10, NIrV). Solomon also saw that wisdom and understanding were worth more than silver and gold (Proverbs 3:13, 14). Solomon learned that true happiness and right living come from turning our eyes from the things we own and looking to the living Christ. He is the One who owns us. 

A love for the things of this life will try to pull us into sin. Our only hope of escape from this power is staying connected to Jesus. This week, we will study what we need to make our connection to Jesus a success.