---
title:  Having a living connection to Jesus
date:   21/01/2018
---

Loving the things we own can “chain” us to the things on this earth. But what if we do not have many things in this life? The desire for riches can trap even those who do not own much. Wanting more riches and things can become an awful curse. So, we must bring this desire under control. Or it will lead us away from Jesus. Satan knows that riches can lead us away from Jesus. So, Satan uses our love for the things on this earth to trap us. 

What is our only protection? 

`How do we do what Paul tells us to do in Colossians 3:2? (Read also Psalm 119:11 and Ephesians 6:18 for hints.)` 

`Read Philippians 4:8. As this verse shows us, what should we fill our minds with?` 

There is only one way to stop loving the things on this earth more than we love God. It is to love and serve Jesus with all our hearts, every minute of each day (Psalm 34:1). Life will have its good and bad times. But we must continue to serve God even after we fail to do what is right. And we must not forget Him when we have success. Moses understood this truth (read Hebrews 11:26). Jesus must be number one in our lives. We must serve Him because He is God and He died for us. But we must not think that serving Him will make us rich. 

We must give our lives to Jesus. Then His plans become ours. True loyalty to God means turning away from anything that gets in the way of our service to Him. As Jesus says, “ ‘Anyone who begins to plow a field but keeps [continues] looking back is of no use in the kingdom of God’ ” (Luke 9:62, ICB). So, we must give up everything for Jesus. Then He will break the grip that riches have on our souls. He will raise us up to be all we were meant to be in Him. How do we make that happen? We must put Jesus at the center of our lives. He must be in control. Not self. Jesus will fill the empty feeling in our souls better than anything on this earth ever can fill us. 

`Think about a time when you got something you wanted very badly. How long did the joy you felt in owning it last until you felt empty again? How does knowing that help us understand that the things on this earth never can make us happy?`