---
title:  Studying the Bible
date:   22/01/2018
---

More than 6 billion Bibles have been given out all over the whole earth. That is a lot of Bibles! But how many people who have those Bibles believe that the Bible is the real Word of the living God? And how many people read those Bibles with sincere hearts that are open to knowing the truth? 

How do we learn the truth? We learn it by studying the Bible in the right way. Studying the Bible will help us to avoid ideas that are both false and unclear. The Bible is a Living Book. God is the starting point for the whole Bible. The Bible comes from Him (Hebrews 4:12). The Bible points us to truths that we cannot find anywhere else. The Bible is our map to God. The Bible shows us how to live our lives each day. It teaches us. It causes the powers of our mind to grow stronger and larger. Daily Bible study changes us. We start to think, feel, talk, and act the same as Jesus. 

`The clearest and most correct information about Jesus is found in the Gospels. The Gospels are the first four books of the New Testament. They include the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Read John 5:39; John 14:6; and John 20:31. What do these verses in John say about Jesus? What reason do they give us for why He is very important to us and to all we believe?` 

We study the Bible because it shows us the Truth [God]. Jesus is the Truth. In the Bible, we find Jesus. In the Old and New Testaments, we read about Jesus and everything He has done for us. Then we fall in love with Him. We give our lives and souls to Him. He puts us under His protection forever. So, we must follow Jesus and obey His words as shown to us in the Bible. Then we will be free from the slavery of sin. And we will stop loving the things of this earth too much (John 3:36). 

`What does Romans 8:5, 6 warn about? How can Bible study help us in this fight for the control over our minds?` 

Love for the things of this life can pull us away from God. So, we need to be careful. That is why we must continue to study the Bible. It points us to everlasting life and to spiritual truths that we need for success in the Christian life.