---
title:  The life of prayer
date:   23/01/2018
---

John 17:3 shows why Christians often say faith is about knowing God. Knowing God means having “life that lasts forever” (John 17:3, NLV). We can find that life when we connect with God. Of course, a main part of our connection with God is good communication. Yesterday, we learned about one of the ways God talks with us. God uses the Bible to talk with us. Prayer is the way we talk with God. 

Prayer points our hearts and minds to heaven and away from earth. But we must be careful. It is easy to pray in a selfish way. So, first we need to give ourselves to God. We must pray for what God wants, not only what we want.Then our prayers will honor God’s holy plan for our lives. 

`Read Hebrews 11:1–6. As these verses show us, what must we add to all our prayers? Also, what does it mean to come to God in faith and to pray in faith?` 

We must add faith to our prayers. What happens when we pray without faith? Then we expect God to do things He never promised to do. This faith is false faith. Satan uses false faith to take the place of real faith. “Prayer and faith are joined together in a close way. So, they need to be studied together. The prayer of faith includes important truth from God. We must learn what this truth is. Then we will have success in the work God gives us in this life. . . . Jesus makes it clear that we must “ ‘ask for things’ ” that support God’s plan for us [Mark 11:24, ICB]. We must ask for the things God has promised us. We must use the things we get to bring God honor and praise in this life. Then God’s promises to us will come true.”—Ellen G. White, Prayer, page 57, adapted. 

`Look at your own prayer life. What do you pray for? What do your prayers say about the things that are important to you? What other things do you need to pray for?`