---
title:  The life of wisdom
date:   24/01/2018
---

1 Kings 3 contains one of the most beautiful stories in the Bible. In this story, Solomon asks God for wisdom. He prays, “ ‘So I ask that you give me wisdom. Then I can rule the people in the right way. Then I will know the difference between right and wrong. Without wisdom, it is impossible to rule this great people of yours’ ” (1 Kings 3:9, ICB). 

`What important words did God say to Solomon in 1 Kings 3:14? Solomon did not follow these words. But how could these words have saved Solomon from the ruin that his love for riches and the things on this earth caused him? Why are God’s words to Solomon so important for all of us? Read also 1 John 5:3 and 1 Peter 4:17 for more hints.` 

Solomon had great wisdom. But wisdom must be obeyed. If not, wisdom is nothing more than good information. Many people know plenty of correct information. But these people will not be in heaven. Why? Because they did not follow what they knew was right. It does us no good to know the truth and not follow it. Solomon did not obey what he knew was right. His disobedience caused him to leave the paths of goodness the Lord wanted him to follow. Later in life, Solomon understood that he did not act wisely. He writes, “Wisdom is more precious than rubies. Nothing you want is equal to it” (Proverbs 8:11, ICB). 

Wisdom means using knowledge and understanding in the right way. Knowledge is a collection of facts. Understanding is the skill to know clearly what is going on around you. Wisdom helps us use both our understanding and knowledge. So, we must be wise managers of the knowledge God gives us. Wise managers need to use both knowledge and understanding. But wise managers also need experience that grows out of obeying knowledge and understanding. 

Solomon’s example shows us how easy it is for even the wisest people to get pulled into the trap of a love for riches and owning things. The only safety we have against this trap is to obey the knowledge God gives us. 

`Read 1 Corinthians 3:19 and Proverbs 24:13, 14. What is the difference between the two types of wisdom talked about in these verses? Share your answer on Sabbath.`