---
title:  The Holy Spirit
date:   25/01/2018
---

The war between good and evil is real. Two sides are battling for our souls. One side is trying to pull us to Jesus (John 6:44). The other side is trying to pull us away from Jesus and to the things on this earth. The power of the Holy Spirit in our lives can and will pull us to Jesus. But we must surrender our lives to Jesus first. 

“ ‘But when the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth’ ” (John 16:13, NIrV; read also John 14:16). The Holy Spirit gives us the power to live by faith and obey God’s law. Then we no longer live by our feelings or wishes as we did in the past. People who do not belong to God live to make themselves happy. But we live to make God happy. The Holy Spirit prepares God’s people on this earth to live in heaven with God. 

Paul tells us this faith is from God. “You do not have faith in Christ because of the wisdom of men. You have faith in Christ [Jesus] because of the power of God” (1 Corinthians 2:5, NLV). Loving the things on this earth pulls us away from God. But the Spirit works to pull us toward Jesus. 

`Read Ezekiel 36:26, 27; John 14:26; and Ephesians 3:16, 17. As we can see from these verses, it is possible for us to have success in the fight against loving the things on this earth. But the power comes only from the Holy Spirit, not from us. We must let the Spirit take full control of us. When that happens, what will God do to make sure we win the battle?` 

“The Holy Spirit speaks to our minds when we read the Bible. In this way, He plants the truth deep in our hearts. He shows us what is false. Then He removes it from our souls. The Holy Spirit is the Spirit of Truth. Jesus works by His Spirit of Truth while we read the Bible.Then, Jesus leads us to give our lives fully to Him.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 671, adapted. 

The Holy Spirit tells us what is true. He shows us God. The Spirit is the best gift Jesus gave to us after He went to heaven. Jesus sent His Spirit to give us power to win the war we fight against our love for things. 

`The Holy Spirit alone can give you power to stop loving the things on this earth more than you love God. What can you do right now to surrender your life to Him?`