---
title:  Additional thought
date:   26/01/2018
---

God asks us to be good stewards. Stewards for God are managers over all the gifts, things, and riches God gives them in this life. A good manager follows the laws of duty and love. “Remember that Duty has a twin sister. Duty’s twin sister is named Love. What happens when Love and Duty meet? Then the two together can do almost anything. But what happens if they are separated? Then they cannot do much good alone.” —Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 4, page 62, adapted. Duty is love in action. We need only to think about Jesus’ death for us on the cross. Then love for Him will help us know our duty. 

But the twin laws that control this earth are not duty and love. The twin laws that control this earth are hate and war. The law of war means fighting against God’s law. War against God is hate in action. Lucifer fought against God (Ezekiel 28:16, 17). And Satan never will stop fighting until God destroys him. Satan turned the power of love into the love for power. The religious leaders of Israel also hated Jesus’ power (Matthew 22:29). They ran away from Jesus’ power in the temple and refused to look at His eyes. But in the end, they did not change their behavior. 

**Discussion questions** 

`1 Think more about the laws of love and duty. What does Ellen G. White mean when she says that duty with no love, or love with no duty, cannot do “much good alone”? What happens to love without duty? And duty without love? Why must they both be together?` 

`2 The memory verse for this week is really two verses in one. What do these verses mean? What do they say about riches? What do they not say?` 

`3 Why did Solomon go so far away from God? Solomon wrote the book of Ecclesiastes in the Bible. What verses can you find in Ecclesiastes that show how a life full of stuff is really an empty life? What have we learned this week about prayer, Bible study, and our connection with Jesus that can help us to stay close to God?` 

`4 Some people may not own many things. But how can they get caught in Satan’s trap of loving riches and the things on this earth anyway?` 