### The Book of Leviticus

Recently, I shared with a friend that I was writing the inVerse lessons on the book of Leviticus. I told him I was really enjoying the study. He smiled and said, “That’s good, but why not just skip it and read the New Testament? Doesn’t it all point to Jesus anyway?” As I thought about his comments, I was quite impressed. My friend, who may have never read the book of Leviticus, understood correctly that the book points unapologetically to Jesus. In fact, every book in the Bible does! Leviticus is like a gospel puzzle book—the more you read it, the better you get at seeing Jesus and understanding the depth of the plan of salvation. If that isn’t motivation enough to study Leviticus, here are six other important aspects of this Pentateuchal book.

First, when we read the book of Leviticus, we gain greater insight into why Jesus and others said and did certain things in the New Testament. For example, what did Jesus mean when He warned that “no one comes to the Father except through Me” (John 14:6)? And what did John the Baptist mean when He said, “Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world” (John 1:29)? This book will deepen your understanding of Scripture—especially of the New Testament. It will cause Jesus’ words and actions to come alive in a new way as you understand them in the context found in Leviticus.

Second, the book of Leviticus helps us identify Jesus as the promised Messiah and Savior of the world (Lev. 1–7). Had the Jews who lived in the New Testament times really understood this book, they might have received Jesus instead of rejecting Him. They might have understood His mission as a suffering Savior, not a conquering king. They might have grasped that His claims to be sinless (John 8:46) and to “always do those things that please Him [the Father]” (John 8:29) qualified Him to be their Messiah and Savior rather than precluded Him from it. Incredibly, it was the rituals taught in the book of Leviticus that awakened Jesus to His role as Savior of the world when as a child He visited the temple (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1898, 1940], p. 78).

Third, the book of Leviticus teaches us what God expects from His people by way of obedience. In the book of Exodus, God gave His people the Ten Commandments, but in Leviticus, He expanded on the law in practical ways. Leviticus speaks to our modern culture and helps us better understand the Christian’s role in promoting health, purity, and justice; protecting the weak; helping the poor; and loving the immigrant (Lev. 11–27). In more succinct words, the book teaches practical Christianity, which is based on love and deep respect for God.

Fourth, the book of Leviticus is prophetic in that it points not only to Jesus’ coming and death on the cross but also to His ministry as our high priest in the heavenly sanctuary, the end of sin, and Satan’s final demise. This amazing book predicts the investigative judgment, the first and second comings of Jesus, and the restoration of all things—when the earth will be made brand-new (Lev. 16; 23).

Fifth, the book of Leviticus is like an autostereogram; it’s a two-dimensional picture that, when you stare at it intensely, reveals a three-dimensional picture hidden within. The more you study Leviticus, the more Jesus and the good news of the gospel will jump out at you in every chapter. From my own study I’ve found that Jesus is everywhere in this book. It has stories, as Genesis and Exodus do (e.g., Lev. 10, 24), but it mostly communicates the gospel through rituals, symbols, laws, and regulations.

Finally, the sixth reason we must study the book of Leviticus is that it affirms the unique calling God has given us as Seventh-day Adventists. This book affirms our teachings regarding the Sabbath, the Second Coming, spiritual gifts, the “holy priesthood” of believers (1 Peter 2:5), Christ’s work of atonement and investigation in the heavenly sanctuary, our commitment to a healthy lifestyle, and ultimately our confidence in salvation through the blood of Christ. Leviticus encourages Adventists to keep moving forward, to never give up, and to boldly tell the world what an amazing friend we’ve found in Jesus.

Most likely Leviticus may not be in your list of top 10 books of the Bible to read. In fact, some of you may be experts in Genesis and Exodus simply because you can’t seem to get through Leviticus and on to the other books. However, I hope and pray that this lesson study changes that for you. Leviticus is a wonderful book that contains many deep concepts, especially regarding what God values. These are things we can understand only when we compare scripture to scripture, guided by the Holy Spirit (John 16:13; 14:26; 1 Cor. 2:13; 14).

This book is divided into 14 lessons, each of which reveals a variety of God’s values that He wants His people to embrace as well. Each value reveals something beautiful about God’s heart and encourages action on behalf of His people. I challenge you to read this book humbly and prayerfully over the next 14 weeks and let the Holy Spirit lead and challenge you.

_Gary Blanchard_