---
title:  Our Responsibility as Stewards
date:   01/02/2018
---

Wise stewards are defined by their willingness to accept and execute the moral principle of personal responsibility. Acceptance of personal responsibility is the choice we make and the actions we take. It recognizes the relationship between cause and effect. Willingness to accept personal responsibility is a key trait that cannot be ignored when we define what a steward is, for stewards must be single-minded in having the best interest of the Owner at heart. Hence, such willingness is a choice that defines the desired relationship a steward has with God.

“God desires to bring men into direct relation with Himself. In all His dealings with human beings He recognizes the principle of personal responsibility. He seeks to encourage a sense of personal dependence and to impress the need of personal guidance. His gifts are committed to men as individuals. Every man has been made a steward of sacred trusts; each is to discharge his trust according to the direction of the Giver; and by each an account of his stewardship must be rendered to God.” - Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, p. 176.

When we become stewards, we will not shift our responsibility to another individual or to an organization. Our personal responsibility is to God and will be reflected in all of our interactions with those around us (Gen. 39:9; see also Dan. 3:16). We will embrace the task at hand to the best of our abilities. Success in God’s eyes will depend more on our faith and on our purity than on intelligence and talent.

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:10. How do we understand these words in the context of what it means to be a wise steward?`

Theologians and philosophers have for centuries debated the difficult question of free will. But the Scripture is clear: we as human beings do have free will and free choice. The idea of being judged by our deeds makes no sense otherwise. Hence, we do have a personal responsibility, by the grace of God, to choose to make the right decisions in all that we do, which includes being faithful stewards of all our Master’s goods.