---
title: 'God S Servants In The New Testament Church'
date: 24/08/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 2:42–47; Acts 9:36; 2 Corinthians 8:7–15; Romans 12; James 2:1–9.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Here are the beliefs and way of life that God our Father accepts as pure [holy] and without [with no; not having any] fault [problem]. When widows are in trouble, take care of them. Do the same for children who have no parents. And don’t [do not] let the world [the ways of life on this earth] make you impure [full of sin]” (James 1:27, NIrV).

IN MATTHEW 28:18–20, Jesus told His followers what He wanted them to do. Matthew 28:18–20 is Jesus’ Last Command. Many Christians today say that these verses show us our work as a church. These verses led Christians in the past to serve God. Today, these verses lead Christians to share the Good News about Jesus with other people too. 

What did Jesus say exactly in His Last Command? He told His followers to “ ‘go and make followers of all people in the world [on the earth]. Baptize them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teach them to obey everything that I have told you to do’ ” (Matthew 28:19, 20, ERV). Jesus’ words show us that He wants His people to take care of people in need. Jesus wants us to take care of people who are hurting. He wants us to take care of sick people. Jesus’ orders to His followers were nothing new. He was not giving His followers new work to do. He wanted them to keep doing the work that He did on earth. We can see Jesus’ followers doing this work in the New Testament church. 

*Jesus said, “ ‘Go and make followers of all people in the world [on the earth]. Baptize them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit’ ” (Matthew 28:19, ERV).*