---
title:  A NEW COMMUNITY
date:   25/08/2019
---

Jesus went to heaven. A little while later, God sent the Holy Spirit to Jesus’ followers. Then the group of believers grew fast. They started the New Testament church. The group of believers became a new community. This community was not something they made. No, Jesus started the church. It was built on His teachings, His work, and the Hebrew Bible.

`Read about the New Testament church in Acts 2:42–47 and Acts 4:32–37. What important work did the church do?`

The Israelites in the Old Testament failed to fully live God’s plan for their lives. God wanted Israel to be fair. But the New Testament church was different from Israel. They followed God’s words in Deuteronomy 15:4 very closely. “ ‘There should not be any poor people in your country’ ” (Deuteronomy 15:4, ERV). What did Christians do to show their faith? They sold the things they owned. They even sold their land. Then they used the money to help poor believers. The New Testament church also helped sick people who needed to be healed in the community (read Acts 3:1–11; Acts 5:12–16).

The New Testament church was not perfect. As the church grew bigger, the problems grew bigger too. One of the problems was about the food given each day to widows (read Acts 6:1). The leaders of the church wanted to preach the Good News about Jesus. How did the church solve the problem? They chose seven men to be in charge of giving food to the widows.

The church chose these seven men to take care of the everyday business in the church. The church started to put different people in charge of different parts of God’s work. The daily work of the church included taking care of widows and healing the sick. The church felt that it was important to witness to other people by helping them. 

`Make a picture in your mind of life in the New Testament church. How did New Testament Christians show that they cared about other people? What can we, as a church, do to show that we care about other people too?`

*The leaders of the New Testament church chose seven men to be in charge of giving food to the widows.*