---
title: 'Dorcas S Work For Jesus'
date: 26/08/2019
---

The New Testament church starts to grow fast. Jesus tells His followers how this will happen: “ ‘But the Holy Spirit will come on you and give you power. You will be my witnesses. You will tell people everywhere about me—in Jerusalem, in the rest of Judea, in Samaria, and in every part of the world’ ” (Acts 1:8, ERV). Many new believers joined the church. One new believer was Dorcas. She also was named Tabitha. Dorcas lived in the city of Joppa. Clearly, Dorcas believed Jesus’ words about giving clothes to the poor. Jesus told His followers to give clothes to the poor. Jesus said it was the same as giving the clothes to Him (read Matthew 25:38, 40).

`Read about Dorcas and her special work for Jesus in Acts 9:36. What special work do you do for Jesus? What work do you want people to remember that you did for God?`

Many people knew about Dorcas and her work for Jesus. “She was always doing good and helping poor people” (see Acts 9:36, NLV). 

Peter visited Lydda, a town near Joppa where Dorcas lived. The people of Joppa heard that Peter was in Lydda. They asked Peter to come to their city because Dorcas died (read Acts 9:37–41). When Peter arrived in Joppa, many people met him. They were people Dorcas helped when she was alive. The people showed Peter the clothes Dorcas made them. Surely, they told Peter many stories about all the wonderful things Dorcas did to help them and other people.

Peter prayed for Dorcas. Then God woke Dorcas up from the dead. Of course, we cannot say that life always will turn out well for Christians who serve the poor and the needy their whole lives. We must remember that Dorcas got sick before she died. We also must remember what happened to another Christian named Stephen. He was one of the seven men chosen to take care of the widows in the church. Stephen was killed with stones (read Acts 7:54–60). So, our life of service does not mean that life will be easy. 

During her life, Dorcas showed God’s love in the work she did to help the poor. So, God used Dorcas’s death to work a miracle. Her coming back to life showed the people in Joppa the power of God. “News of this went through all Joppa. Many people put their trust in the Lord” (Acts 9:42, NLV).

*During her life, Dorcas showed God’s love in the work she did to help the poor.*