---
title:  GIVING IS ANOTHER WAY OF SHARING
date:   27/08/2019
---

What does Paul do after he accepts Jesus? He preaches the Good News to the non-Jews. God gives Paul much success. Many non-Jews join the church. Then Jewish Christians start to worry about all the non-Jews joining the church. They worry that the non-Jewish Christians will not respect Jewish practices and beliefs. So, the New Testament church leaders meet together to talk about the problem. They ask God for help. This big meeting was named the Jerusalem Group. You can read about it and what happened in Acts 15.

Paul gives a report about the meeting in Galatians 2. He gives more information about the Jerusalem Group’s decision about Paul’s work for the non-Jews. “They asked only one thing. They wanted us to continue to remember poor people. That was what I had wanted to do all along” (Galatians 2:10, NIrV).

Paul always continued to help the poor in all his future work for God. 

`Read 2 Corinthians 8:7–15. How does Paul show the connection between the Good News and giving?`

Paul told believers to give a lot and to take care of each other in hard times. He told the story about the time God gave manna to the Israelites. Paul used this story to show the church an example of giving and sharing (read 2 Corinthians 8:15). Paul also told believers to remember what the author of Psalm 112:9 wrote: “The Holy Writings say, ‘He has given much to the poor. His right-standing with God lasts forever’ ” (2 Corinthians 9:9, NLV).

Paul tells his members to give with all their hearts. Believers also should save part of the money they earned. Soon, Paul or Titus will come to visit their church. Then Paul will take the offerings the church collected back to Jerusalem. The money will be used to help the poor Christians there. Paul uses the example of one church to encourage other churches to want to give more. Paul writes, “You are proving by this act of love what you are. They will give thanks to God for your gift to them and to others [people]. This proves you obey the Good News of Christ” (2 Corinthians 9:13, NLV).

`Of course, we cannot give money to every good cause that needs help. We must choose. So, how do we make the right choice about how much to give and who to give to?`

*Paul tells church members to give a lot and to take care of each other in hard times.*
