---
title: 'Paul S Advice About Living And Loving Well'
date: 28/08/2019
---

In Romans 1–11, Paul talks about how God saves us by faith in Jesus. But in chapter 12, Paul starts talking about something else. He gives us advice about showing other people God’s love and living a good Christian life. “Christian brothers, I ask you from my heart to give your bodies to God because of His loving-kindness to us. Let your bodies be a living and holy gift given to God. He is pleased with this kind of gift. This is the true worship that you should give Him” (Romans 12:1, NLV). Why does Paul say we should give our bodies as a holy gift to God? Because of what God did for us in Jesus. That is why we should live for God.

`Read Romans 12. What is this chapter about? What does Paul say about love and taking care of other people? What does he say we should do for people in need?`

In Romans 12, Paul talks about the different jobs we do as Christians in the church. He also talks about the gifts God gives us to do His work. Some of these gifts include serving other people and encouraging them. Another spiritual gift is giving offerings to God (read Romans 12:3–8). Yes, Christians should do these things. We also should do them with love (read Romans 12:9–11).

What does it mean to work for God with a heart of love? Paul explains. He says believers should be patient during hard times. Christians also must take care of the needy. Believers also should work hard for peace. They should be kind when people are not fair. They should fight the war against evil by doing good (read Romans 12:20, 21).

Romans 12 shows us how to live as a new person. It also shows God’s people how to serve God in their personal lives and in their communities. Paul told the new Christians that their faith should change their whole lives. The Roman Christians had difficult lives. They lived in the capital city of the Roman Kingdom. Paul tells them to stay strong. He also tells them not to live the way non-Christians around them live. “Don’t [do not] change yourselves to be like [the same as] the people of [on] this world [earth], but let God change you inside with a new way of thinking. Then you will be able to understand and accept what God wants for you. You will be able to know what is good and pleasing to him and what is perfect” (Romans 12:2, ERV).

*Paul says we should give our bodies as a holy gift to God because Jesus died for us.*