---
title: 'James The Fair'
date: 29/08/2019
---

Many Christians believe that Jesus’ brother, James, became a leader in the New Testament church in Jerusalem. They also believe James was the leader of the Jerusalem Group (read Acts 15; also read Galatians 1, 2). If so, then it is possible that James also wrote the book of James.

There was a church leader in New Testament times named James the Fair. He got this name because he cared about people that no one thought were important. He fought hard to make life better for them. Many people believe that James the Fair is the same person as Jesus’ brother. The book of James is the New Testament’s book of proverbs. Proverbs are wise sayings. The book of James gives Christians wise advice about how to live for God.

The author of James wanted his Christian readers to “Obey the Word of God. If you hear only and do not act, you are only fooling yourself” (James 1:22, NLV). James also talks about the only religion that God accepts. God wants us to take care of the needy and to keep our hearts clean (read James 1:27). 

`Read James 2:1–9 and James 5:1–5. How does James think and feel about the rich? How is his thinking different from the way most people think? How should we think about the rich and the poor in our churches? What does James say we should do for them?`

James says that it is not enough to give God’s blessing to people with no food or clothes. You need to give them clothes and feed them first. We must show people we care about them by taking care of their needs. Then they will believe us when we tell them about God’s love (read James 2:14–16). James said that it was important that our faith be more than words. Our faith is made perfect by our good works or the things we do for other people. James also explains what loving your neighbor means. We must show this love every day by serving other people. We do not help other people as a way for us to earn God’s love or to be saved. We help other people because God saved us. Then our lives will show this truth in all the good things we do.

*James cared about people who no one thought were important.*