---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 30/08/2019
---

**Additional thought**

Read Ellen G. White, “Dorcas—Her Ministry and Its Influence,” pages 66, 67, in Welfare Ministry; “A Liberal Church,” pages 335–345, in The Acts of the Apostles; “This Is Pure Religion,” pages 35–41, in Welfare Ministry.

“The Savior wanted His church to care for people who were sad. He also wanted His church to help people who were fighting against sin. So, the Savior gave His life to start a church that takes care of people. A group of believers may be poor. They may have only a little education. No one may really know who they are. But in Jesus, this same group of believers may do God’s work in the home, the neighborhood, the church, and even in places far away. The work Jesus’ followers do will change other people’s lives forever.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 640, adapted. 

“The Christians during New Testament times had unselfish hearts. They gave a lot. They gave all the time. They loved to give. Giving filled the whole church with joy. The believers knew that their gifts helped send Jesus’ followers to work for God in other places. There, Jesus’ followers shared the Good News about Jesus with people who did not know it. The believers’ gifts and offerings showed that their faith in God’s loving favor was real. The Holy Spirit changed their lives. He made them holy. That is why they gave so much. Their giving was a miracle. It showed God’s grace working in their lives. [Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin.]”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [teachers and leaders], page 344, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1. How can your local church become the same as the church that we read about in Acts 1–3?`

`2. This week we learned about how the New Testament churches collected offerings and shared them with other believers in different places. The Seventh-day Adventist Church follows some of these same rules. We send offerings to different places on earth, too, so that we can help God’s work grow there. Why is this plan for sharing a good one to follow?`

`3. James 5:1–5 gives us a strong warning about money. Why is this strong warning necessary?`

*“The believers’ gifts and offerings showed that their faith in God’s loving favor was real.”*