---
title:  GOD MADE THE EARTH
date:   29/06/2019
---

*SABBATH—JUNE 29*

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Genesis 1:26–31; Genesis 2:15; Genesis 3:16–19; Genesis 4:9; Proverbs 22:2.

> **MEMORY VERSE:** <p></p>
> “Anyone who crushes [hurts] poor people makes fun of their Maker [the God who made them]. But anyone who is kind to those [people] in need honors God” (Proverbs 14:31, NIrV).

DID YOU EVER WORK HARD to make something beautiful? Maybe you painted a picture. Or maybe you cooked a special meal. Then you gave your picture or the meal as a gift to someone you loved. But what did this person do? Did he or she want the gift? No! He or she threw the meal in the trash! Or maybe this person ripped the picture! Did that ever happen to you? If yes, then you will understand something that happened to God. God made the earth beautiful. But then sin hurt everything He made. 

The Bible says that God made everything. He saw that everything He made was “very good” (Genesis 1:31, ERV). The Bible shows us how God felt about everything He made too. We can read about how God felt in Genesis 1 and 2. Then we will understand why God’s heart is so sad when He talks to Adam and Eve after they sinned. 

Since that time, people continue to sin. Often, they are not fair or kind. They hurt each other. They fight against God. But God never stops loving humans. He made a plan to save us. He also gave us a part in His plan to help Him save other people too. Wow! We serve a wonderful God! 

_God never stops loving humans._