---
title:  THE GOD WHO MADE US
date:   30/06/2019
---

All life starts with God. Your life too. So do the lives of all humans. This earth and everything on it starts with God too. The Bible says: “ ‘By his power we live and move and exist [keep on living]’ ” (Acts 17:28, ICB). 

The Bible story about life starts with these words: “In the beginning God created [made] the sky and the earth” (Genesis 1:1, ICB). How did God do that? He used only words! He made all life by using only the words that came out of His mouth. Yes, He made Eve from Adam’s bone. And before that, God made Adam himself from the dirt. But where did the dirt come from? God used words to make the dirt, right? He said the words. Then the thing He said appeared out of nothing! Make a picture of that in your head if you can!

`Read the story in Genesis 1:26–31 about how God made Adam and Eve. What important things does this story tell us about God? What important things does this story tell us about people?`

We should spend time in nature. Nature can teach us many things about God. But did you know our knowledge about God also can teach us about how He made the earth? For example, we know that God likes everything to be neat and in a nice way. So, we should expect to find things in nature to be set in a nice way too. We believe God loves beauty. So, we should not be surprised to see examples of beauty on the earth He made.

In the same way, we believe God loves people. God made people to connect with each other. So, we should find many examples of connections in nature. Everything God made on this earth connects together. He made the animals to get along. God made humans to connect with Himself, with each other, and with the rest of nature.

We do not understand everything about God. But what we can see should help us think more about the way God wanted life to be. 

`The earth and all that God made show us God. Yes, we live on an earth broken by sin. But how does your knowledge about God help you to understand life on this earth better?`

_Nature can teach us many things about God._