---
title: 'A Perfect Earth'
date: 01/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Do you wish sometimes that you lived in the Garden of Eden? It is easy for us to feel that way. Read about the Garden of Eden in the Bible. Yes, the Bible’s story about Eden is very short. But the Bible tells us enough to make us want to live there. 

God was very happy with everything He made. “God saw everything he had made. And it was very good” (Genesis 1:31, NIrV). The earth was both beautiful and useful. It was filled with life and color. But God also filled the earth with everything that life needed to grow. No wonder God stopped at the end of each day when He made the earth to think about how good everything was! 

`Read Genesis 1. In this chapter, the Bible tells us that God saw that the things He made were “good.” Do you see how many times the Bible says that? (Read Genesis 1:4, 10, 12, 18, 25, and 31.) What do you think that means?`

The Bible was written after humans sinned. But it shows us the wonders of nature. Job 38–41 and Psalm 148 are examples that show us nature’s beauty. We must remember that these chapters in the Bible were not written about the earth before there was sin. No. These chapters show us the same beauty that fills the earth today.

Jesus gave us examples in nature that show us God’s love (read Matthew 6:26, 28–30). These examples from nature teach us to depend on God. They also fill us with wonder. Open your heart and mind to the beauty in nature around you. Then you will see just how much God gave us. We should thank God every day for all His gifts from nature. When we do, we will want to give Him our hearts. Then we will want to serve Him forever. 

As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe God made us and saves us. We wait for His kingdom. While we wait, we should understand something important about the beauty, joy, and good things we see. All this beauty shows us our earth was very wonderful before sin. The beauty we see also is a promise that God will make the earth beautiful again.

`What do you like the most about nature? What does the beauty in nature tell you about the Lord?`

_We should thank God every day for all His gifts from nature._