---
title:  MANAGERS OF THE EARTH 
date:   02/07/2019
---

What does the Bible tell us about the Garden of Eden and this earth after God made it? The Bible says that God filled the Garden of Eden and this planet with life. He filled them with beautiful things to make humans happy.

God also gave the first man and woman a special job. God gave this work to the whole human family too. God put Adam and Eve in charge of everything on earth.

First, God gave Adam the job of naming all the animals and birds (read Genesis 2:19). Then God gave Adam another job. This job was a gift and a blessing from God Himself. “God blessed them and said to them, ‘Have many children. Fill the earth and take control of it. Rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the air. Rule over every living thing that moves on the earth’ ” (Genesis 1:28, ERV). 

`Read Genesis 1:28 and Genesis 2:15. What is the same about both verses? What work did God give humans? Write Adam and Eve’s job description below in one or two sentences.`

Sadly, many Christians in the past have used Genesis 1:28 in the wrong way. They used it as an excuse to take what they wanted from the earth. Some of these people did not care if they destroyed the earth. They cared only about getting rich. Yes, it is true that God made the earth for humans. But “the Lord God put the man in the Garden of Eden. He put him there to farm its land and take care of it” (Genesis 2:15, NIrV).

God made us managers of everything He made. What is the first thing we think about when someone asks us, “What does a good manager do?” We often think about money. But our being good managers is not only about money. What is the first command God gives us as His managers? He tells us to take care of the earth and everything He made. God also included Adam and Eve’s future children in His command. It was God’s first plan for the earth to be filled with life, beauty, and good things for all humans. Adam and Eve had a big part in taking care of everything.

The earth belongs to God (read Psalm 24:1). He continues to ask us to take care of everything He gives us. But we live on an earth hurt by sin. So, it is even more important for us to be good managers.

_God gave Adam the job of naming all the animals and birds._
