---
title: 'The Human Family'
date: 04/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Adam and Eve chose to sin. Not long after, sin started to break things on the earth in new and awful ways. Cain was very jealous of his brother Abel. Cain’s heart was filled with anger and hate for his brother. So, Cain killed Abel. Later, God asked Cain: “ ‘Where is your brother Abel?’ ” (Genesis 4:9, ICB). Cain said, “ ‘I don’t [do not] know. Is it my job to take care of my brother?’ ” (Genesis 4:9, ICB). God’s question shows what God thinks the answer is. “Yes, Cain, it is your job to take care of your brother.”

`Read Proverbs 22:2. What truth does this simple verse teach us? What else does this verse tell us about our connections with other humans?`

God made every person we meet. God made humans to look the same as He does and to be the same as He is in many ways. Each person is connected with other people. We are all part of the human family. Yes, that family is broken and hurt in many ways. But “we are all connected together. We are all part of the human family. The evil that happens to one part of our human family brings hurt and pain to all of us.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry [work done for God] of Healing, page 345, adapted. Clearly, we are all connected to each other. Because of our connection, God wants us to take care of each other and everything He gave us (read Matthew 22:37–39). 

The Bible teaches us again and again that God made us. It is one of the reasons God commands us to keep the Sabbath holy (read Exodus 20:11). It also is why we should worship God in the end time (read Revelation 14:7). It is why we should take care of other people and the poor too.

God made us. That truth connects everyone together. “Anyone who crushes [hurts] poor people makes fun of their Maker [the God who made them]. But anyone who is kind to those [people] in need honors God” (Proverbs 14:31, NIrV). This verse makes it very clear. We are all connected closely to each other.

God made us. That is why He asks us to give Him our hearts and lives. He also asks us to worship Him, work for Him, and care for other people. Maybe at times it can be hard to love people. But even so, it is our “job to take care of [our] brother” (Genesis 4:9, ICB).

_It is our “job to take care of [our] brother” (Genesis 4:9, ICB)._