---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   05/07/2019
---

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

_Read Ellen G. White, “The Creation” pages 44–51, in Patriarchs and Prophets._

“ ‘God is love’ [1 John 4:8, ERV]. . . . God’s heart is filled with love. So is His law. It has always been that way. It always will be that way too. ‘God is high and lifted up. He lives forever. His name is holy. He says, “I live in a high and holy place” ’ [Isaiah 57:15, ERV]. ‘His ways last [continue] forever’ [Habakkuk 3:6, NLV]. ‘He does not change’ [James 1:17, NLV].

“Everything God makes shows us His love. God’s power pours a blessing on everything He made.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs [Old Testament fathers and leaders] and Prophets [special messengers], page 33, adapted. 

“What will happen if men will do their duty as loyal managers of God’s gifts? Here is what will happen. No one will cry for bread. No one will be poor or in need. No one will be naked because he or she has no clothes. What causes all these awful things? They are caused by selfishness in human hearts. . . . God made men His managers. So, we must not blame God for the pain, the suffering, and the hunger we see in life.”—Ellen G. White, Welfare [the help we give to people in need] Ministry [work done for God], page 16, adapted. 

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Look at the second Ellen G. White quote above. What is she saying? Who does she say is responsible for why people are poor? What should this answer tell us about why it is important for us to be good managers of God’s gifts?`

`2. Many hundreds of years have passed since Adam and Eve first sinned. Is it possible for us to see God’s love for us in nature after all this time? If yes, in what ways do you see it? As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe God made the earth and all nature. What can we do to help other people see God’s love in nature too?`

`3. What does being a good manager of God’s gifts mean to you? How has this week’s lesson given you new ideas about being a good manager?`

`4. What if every person we saw wore a sign that said: “God made me and loves me”? How can that sign change the way we behave with other people? In what ways can it help us to show other people more love?`

_“We must not blame God for the pain, the suffering, and the hunger we see in life.”_