---
title:  Too Much Pressure!
date:  01/03/2025
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 11:25–30**

**Too Much
Pressure!**

Today’s world is a very stressful place. It seems everyone is constantly on the go. Media, messages, and alerts constantly stimulate our brains. This can contribute to elevated levels of stress. High stress generally results in a lack of sleep, which causes high cortisol levels and an imbalance of other hormones such as estrogen, progesterone, serotonin, and thyroid hormones. Distressed feelings lead to an overactive amygdala in the brain, which also impacts our emotional state and can lead to anxiety and depression. Stress can also exhaust the adrenal glands, which can result in chronic pain and other health problems. Stress may also cause headaches and digestive problems and even heart problems.

Some stress can be positive; this is called eustress. Positive stressors might include child birth, moving, getting a new job, or changing schools. High-pressure situations can teach us certain lessons and prompt us to make improvements, such as compartmentalizing or responding wisely in difficult or dangerous circumstances. Stress, whether positive or negative, can provide an opportunity to find a deeper rest in Christ. “Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest” (Matt. 11:28). In every tense moment, the stress-calming Savior invites us to find rest in Him.

This week, we will study what it means to find rest in Christ and will consider some practical steps we can take to relieve the stress in our lives. God is able!

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 11:25–30 in the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 28–30. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `