---
title:  Finding Rest in Christ
date:  02/03/2025
---

#### inGest

Many people are very familiar with Jesus’ invitation in Matthew 11:28–30. It’s one of those passages that many of us could probably quote in our sleep. However, living it out in daily life can still be challenging. It’s easy to quote scriptures by rote memory without really internalizing their meaning and applying them practically.

When we accept Christ’s invitation to rest in Him, we slow down and don’t respond to problems impulsively. To hear Him say, “Come to Me,” we must quiet our minds and then listen. Jesus is not ambiguous; He says, “Come to Me.” It’s a personal invitation that awaits a response. Through this passage, Christ is calling us during the moments we’re carrying the heaviest burdens. The rest is there, just waiting. It has to be a choice that we make. When stress is building, we can reach out to God by quoting this passage and asking Christ to help us come to Him and find rest. Resting in Christ means we trust God with the outcome of stressful situations. Christ does not remove us from every situation that overwhelms us, but He can give us an inner peace and fortitude despite the pressure. Christ also wants to give us physical rest every night when we sleep (Ps. 3:5; 4:8) and every week when we rest on the Sabbath day (Exod. 20:8–11), but the rest we find in Christ is a comprehensive rest that goes beyond the spiritual, emotional, and physical dimensions.

Jesus promises to give us rest if we yoke up with Him. What does that mean? In Jesus’ day, yoking up with a person meant in part that the individual was your rabbi, or spiritual teacher or mentor. To yoke up with Jesus means we accept Him as our instructor, which is why the verse says, “learn from Me” (v. 29). When a difficult situation arises, we should learn what to do from Jesus. We can receive counsel from Him by praying and meditating on applicable passages of Scripture that speak to our needs and challenges. Memorizing scriptures makes it more easily accessible in the moments when help is most needed. Hiding God’s Word in our hearts can help calm our nerves and put our minds and bodies at ease as we recall God’s goodness and claim His promises.

Jesus invites us to find rest in Him today, just as He invited the disciples of old. The more strenuous our labor, the heavier our burdens, the more eager Jesus is to give us rest. He specializes in handling the most difficult cases. The farther out of reach rest seems to us, the more glory God receives when He gives us the miracle of rest.

Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verse from Matthew 11:25–30. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What makes it difficult to go to Christ in a stressful situation?`

`What steps can we take to learn to find rest in Christ no matter what we’re confronted with? Take a few minutes to brainstorm with God.`

` `