---
title:  Yoking Up with Christ
date:  03/03/2025
---

#### inTerpret

When Jesus preached, He used illustrations ordinary people of His time could relate to. The word “yoke” is translated from the Greek word zugos, which refers to a wooden yoke that joins two animals together so they can combine their strength to pull a load that would be too much for one animal alone. The idea of having a yoke around our necks doesn’t sound too appealing, and it does denote work. However, when we consider that this yoke would join us to Christ, we can appreciate the message of the illustration.

Matthew Henry’s well-known commentary beautifully expresses the relief that comes from accepting Christ’s yoke: “To call those who are weary and heavy laden, to take a yoke upon them, looks like adding affliction to the afflicted; but the pertinency of it lies in the word my: ‘You are under a yoke which makes you weary: shake that off and try mine, which will make you easy’ “ ([Hendrickson, 1994], 1607). Wearing the yoke of sin drags us into heavy bondage, which is one of Satan’s goals. When charting our own course, we become misguided and are pulled in all kinds of wrong directions that often end in chaos, pain, and disaster. Trudging through life alone, we become overwhelmed with fear, shame, and bitterness. Christ wants to set us free from these distressing burdens. By casting off the yoke of this world and accepting Christ’s, we bind ourselves to something better. Becoming yoked with Christ means we allow Him to walk with us and share life’s load. At times, He even carries it for us!

To take Christ’s yoke is to yield ourselves to the Lord and obey His gospel. Oxen that are yoked together are not free to roam wherever they desire. These animals are bound together by a common cause that keeps them moving forward in a specific direction. Christ does not turn His followers loose to do whatever they feel like. He gives instructions that He expects us to follow and commissions work that He expects us to accomplish. Though the work Christ assigns does require sacrifice, diligence, and discipline, the reward is beyond measure. Paul considered his worst sufferings a very light thing in view of the heavenly things to come: “For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, is working for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory” (2 Cor. 4:17). The way of the world may sometimes appear easier, but it grows heavier and harder and ultimately ends in bitter disappointment. Jesus’ way is difficult sometimes, but it grows sweeter and ends with great reward.

#### Journal

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What things seem easier under the world’s yoke? What things are easier under Christ’s? Which do you choose?`