---
title:  Practical Steps
date:  05/03/2025
---

#### inVite

We were created to be in relationship with both God and one another. However, our jam-packed schedules leave little room for health, friends, or quality time with God. We often find ourselves overwhelmed with responsibilities at work, school, church, and home. We spend so much time racing around trying to accomplish everything, yet so little actually gets accomplished. When our lives are running out of control, we are not yoked up with Christ; we’re actually yoked up with the demands of others and sometimes with our own pride! A lot of time gets taken up by useless busyness, including wasting time on entertainment and consumerism. With Christ we find the courage to evaluate our values, adjust our priorities, set needed boundaries, and pace ourselves.

Praying and meditating on God’s Word improve our focus and ability to plan well. Ideally, we should pray and meditate each morning, at midday, and in the evening (Ps. 55:17). At home, you can sit at the edge of your bed or kneel before God when you wake up. Spend time calming your mind as you meditate and talk to the God of the universe. If you’re at work, try to find a secluded place, close your eyes, and pray. At school, you can sometimes find a quiet corner in the library or outside to pause and pray silently. Learn to spend time quietly with the Lord. Memorizing Scripture also guides us how to shape our lives and strengthens us to do the right thing. Inviting the Word of God into your mind and reciting its promises brings peace, joy, and tranquility. “You will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on You, because he trusts in You” (Isa. 26:3). Meditating on God’s Word anchors us to withstand the worst situations. Even as we lie in bed at night, Scripture can calm our minds in order to sleep. “I will both lie down in peace, and sleep; for You alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety” (Ps. 4:8).

List everything that needs to be done to help prioritize goals and set boundaries. Start by categorizing the most important things on your to-do list, then identify the things that can wait. A to-do list can also help identify things you should say “no” to. Say “yes” only to the things that are in harmony with biblical principles and that you know you can realistically accomplish. For every time you say “yes,” there are a thousand times you’ll say “no,” so choose what you agree to wisely. Remember to process what others are asking you to do before you say yes. A good first response is, “Let me think about it.” Then take time to evaluate the request to see if it fits with your schedule, goals, and calling. Also remember that we are not alone. Do your part, but share the load, delegate certain tasks, or off-load responsibilities to others—friends, family, co-workers, ministry partners, etc. You can’t always handle everything on your own.

If you do these things, you will see that most, if not all, of the things on your list will eventually get done. Seek guidance from God to know what God has called you to do.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Matthew 11:25–30 again and look for where Jesus is. How have you seen Him differently or seen Him again in your study this week?`

`What changes is Jesus asking you to make in your life to better yoke up with Him?`

`What is He saying to you personally through the text of the week?`

`Prayer Response:`