---
title:  The Calling of Ezra and Nehemiah
date:  13/10/2019
---

We could say that Ezra was chosen for various reasons: (1) he was willing to go; (2) he was a leader; and (3) he was a skilled scribe and teacher. There are additional reasons that we could find, as well. But there is one verse that perhaps best demonstrates why Ezra was given this task.

`What does Ezra 7:10 say about Ezra? How might Ezra have “prepared” or “set” his heart to seek “the law of the Lord” and to do it?`

The word for “prepared,” or “set,” is kun in Hebrew. The word can be translated as “prepared, set, be firm, to firmly establish, be stable, or secure.” Therefore, the true meaning of this statement seems to mean that Ezra firmly set his heart or established in his heart to seek God.

After arriving in Jerusalem, Ezra modeled what it means to be dedicated to God, and he taught God’s Word in Jerusalem for 13 years. It may have seemed to him that he wasn’t making any difference during those 13 years, but then, after the walls were completed, the people called an assembly—not because anyone forced them, but because they wanted to do it. The Word of God that they had been hearing from Ezra had taken root.

`Why was Nehemiah chosen? Read Nehemiah 1:1–11.`

Nehemiah had a heart for God and the people. He was troubled when he found out that the work in Jerusalem had stopped. Nehemiah had a passion for the cause, and just like Ezra, he volunteered for the job. God answered their prayers and desires. Sometimes we get the idea that if we love something it must not be from God, because God will give us only difficult tasks that we might not want to do. But if we are walking with God, the desire to do something we love are often God-given. God wants us to have a passion for what we do for Him.

`In what ways have you experienced the reality that God calls you to do for Him things that you love?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God chose Ezra to be an instrument of good to Israel, that He might put honor upon the priesthood, the glory of which had been greatly eclipsed during the captivity. Ezra developed into a man of extraordinary learning and became “a ready scribe in the law of Moses.” Verse 6. These qualifications made him an eminent man in the Medo-Persian kingdom. 

Ezra became a mouthpiece for God, educating those about him in the principles that govern heaven. During the remaining years of his life, whether near the court of the king of Medo-Persia or at Jerusalem, his principal work was that of a teacher. As he communicated to others the truths he learned, his capacity for labor increased. He became a man of piety and zeal. He was the Lord’s witness to the world of the power of Bible truth to ennoble the daily life.—_Prophets and Kings_, p. 609. 

Christians should be preparing for what is soon to break upon the world as an overwhelming surprise, and this preparation they should make by diligently studying the word of God and striving to conform their lives to its precepts. The tremendous issues of eternity demand of us something besides an imaginary religion, a religion of words and forms, where truth is kept in the outer court. . . .  

 . . . Shall we let the example of Ezra teach us the use we should make of our knowledge of the Scriptures? The life of this servant of God should be an inspiration to us to serve the Lord with heart and mind and strength. We each have an appointed work to do, and this can be accomplished only by consecrated effort. We need first to set ourselves to know the requirements of God, and then to practice them. Then we can sow seeds of truth that will bear fruit unto eternal life.—_Conflict and Courage_, p. 260. 

As His representatives among men, Christ does not choose angels who have never fallen, but human beings, men of like passions with those they seek to save. Christ took upon Himself humanity, that He might reach humanity. Divinity needed humanity; for it required both the divine and the human to bring salvation to the world. Divinity needed humanity, that humanity might afford a channel of communication between God and man.

With almost impatient eagerness the angels wait for our cooperation; for man must be the channel to communicate with man. And when we give ourselves to Christ in whole-hearted devotion, angels rejoice that they may speak through our voices to reveal God’s love.

We must be laborers together with God; for God will not complete His work without human agencies. . . .

To save souls should be the life work of every one who professes Christ. We are debtors to the world for the grace given us of God, for the light which has shone upon us, and for the discovered beauty and power of the truth.—_Christian Service_, pp. 8–10. 