---
title:  inTro
date:   30/08/2026
---

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Matthew 27:32–56

### Not Listening

Have you ever tried to have a really important conversation with someone only to have them miss the point entirely? Or perhaps you’ve had multiple conversations with someone with no signs of them understanding what you were saying. Jesus was in this situation when trying to warn His disciples that He was about to be horribly mistreated by the religious leaders, executed like an abhorrent criminal, and resurrected on the third day (Mark 8:31–33; 9:30–32). His unwelcome predictions were the exact opposite of everything they expected. After two unsuccessful conversations, Jesus made a third attempt to help them understand what was coming. While walking the road to Jerusalem, He explained in the clearest terms possible what was about to happen: “Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and to the scribes; and they will condemn Him to death and deliver Him to the Gentiles; and they will mock Him, and scourge Him, and spit on Him, and kill Him. And the third day He will rise again” (Mark 10:33, 34). He could not be more direct! What more could He say?

Unfortunately, the very next thing that happened reveals that the disciples still were not listening. James and John came to Jesus with an urgent request about the throne they expected Jesus to establish in Jerusalem: “Grant us that we may sit, one on Your right hand and the other on Your left, in Your glory” (Mark 10:37).

Jesus was heartbroken. He had just revealed the agonizing experience of His imminent crucifixion, and they were more concerned about earthly greatness. Jesus replied by telling them, “You do not know what you ask” (Mark 10:38). Truly, they didn’t.

Jesus asked James and John, “Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?” (Mark 10:38). They said they were able, showing how little they understood their own weakness and the extreme suffering Jesus was about to experience.

When they asked to be next to Christ, they had visions of being promoted to the top positions of government when Jesus established His throne. They did not know that being next to Christ would mean crucifixion.

Later, James and John did indeed drink from His cup—the cup of suffering. Of the twelve disciples, James was the first to die and John was the last. James was killed by Herod (Acts 12:1, 2), and John was banished as a prisoner to the rugged island of Patmos (Rev. 1:9). According to one tradition passed on by the early Christian apologist Tertullian, Roman Emperor Domitian issued John a death sentence and had him placed in a pot of boiling oil. Miraculously, he didn’t die and was later released from prison to live out his days in Ephesus.

The cross was never supposed to be a surprise to the twelve disciples, but when it happened, they were completely unprepared. Their story reminds us how easy it is to tune out messages that don’t align with our preconceived ideas. The future can be spelled out in extremely clear terms, yet events can still catch us off guard as if we had never been warned.

The disciples were nowhere near Jesus as He was led bound and bleeding to Calvary. This was not the journey they had signed up for. By that point, no disciples were begging to be at His right or left hand.

Jesus had tried to prepare the disciples to witness the cross, and the time had come. Everything led up to this moment. Jesus was stripped and nailed to the wooden beams. The soldiers raised the cross and heaved it into place. They cast lots over who would take His tunic. There He hung, wearing a crown of thorns, crucified for being exactly who He claimed to be: the Son of God, the King of the Jews.

### inScribe

Make an outline or mind map of Matthew 27:32–56. Especially focus on verses 38–44, writing them out from the translation of your choice or rewriting them in your own words.

Review your scribed passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [Arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`What special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`