---
title:  inGest
date:   31/08/2026
---

### Save Yourself!

Jesus’ crucifixion took place just outside the city, beside the road many people traveled regularly. Large crowds of travelers were visiting from places as far away as Africa, Asia, and Europe for the Passover. The multitudes passing by looked at Jesus with contempt and yelled curses at Him. They “blasphemed Him, wagging their heads and saying, ‘You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, save Yourself! If You are the Son of God, come down from the cross’” (Matt. 27:39, 40).

Out-of-town visitors weren’t the only ones to criticize Jesus. The religious leaders from Jerusalem also ridiculed Him, saying He saved others but was unable to save Himself. With utter disdain they told one another, “If He is the King of Israel, let Him now come down from the cross, and we will believe Him. He trusted in God; let Him deliver Him now” (Matt. 27:42, 43). They taunted Him for claiming to be the Son of God.

The soldiers mocked Jesus as well, saying, “If You are the King of the Jews, save Yourself” (Luke 23:37). One of the criminals crucified next to Him sneered: “If You are the Christ, save Yourself and us” (Luke 23:39).

Can you imagine hearing a real audio recording of the cross that day? The anger; the cacophony of voices. It was quite the scene. Jesus, the Lord of glory, bearing the weight of the world’s sins, was met not with honor but with scorn. Satan was doing everything he could to discourage Jesus and get Him to quit. The repeated mention of “coming down from the cross” was a direct temptation from Satan—because He could have done it.

Satan knew this was the pivotal moment in the great controversy—the moment in which he would either win everything or lose everything. Once again, he challenged Jesus’ identity with the same phrase he used in the desert: “If You are the Son of God” (Matt. 27:40; Matt. 4:6). Satan knows Jesus is the Son of God, and Jesus knows it too. However, Satan was trying to provoke Him into using His divinity for personal benefit.

The irony in the statement, “If You are the Son of God, come down from the cross” (Matt. 27:40) is that it’s precisely because He is the Son of God that He won’t come down from the cross. As for the plea from the man beside Him, “Save Yourself and us” (Luke 23:39), Jesus was already in the process of providing them salvation. They just hadn’t figured it out yet.

Amazingly, in the face of all this scorn and abuse, Jesus still extended forgiveness. For all those who contributed to His death He prayed, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do” (Luke 24:34).

**Questions to consider:**

`People around the cross mocked Jesus for claiming to the be Son of God. Have you ever been tempted to doubt whether God truly views you as His child?`

`Have you ever had someone challenge your identity and push you to prove your worth? How did you respond?`