---
title:  inTerpret
date:   01/09/2026
---

### Abandoned, Rejected, Heartbroken

The jeering crowds were hushed by a darkness that fell around Calvary at the sixth hour of the day (noon). After three hours of intense spiritual suffering, Jesus cried out, “My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?” (Matt. 27:46). There is perhaps no worse feeling in the universe than to be forsaken. Being forsaken is worse than just being punished. During these hours of darkness, His physical pain was only a tiny shadow compared to His much more intense internal suffering.

Jesus normally began His prayers with the endearing term “Father.” He abandoned that term here, as He felt completely separated and alone. Our sins separated Him from His Father. He was afflicted by possibly the most haunting question in history: “Why?” Why this? Why me? Why now? With no answer from heaven, everything had to be by faith. There was no voice from heaven saying, “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased” as there was at His baptism (Matt 3:17). He no longer sensed the smile of heaven upon Him. Thick darkness surrounded His soul.

“My God, My God, why…?” These exact words, written under divine inspiration, were first uttered by King David in Psalm 22:1, a beautiful Messianic prophecy. The accuracy of Psalm 22 is incredible. Verse 16 says Jesus’ hands and feet would be pierced. Crucifixion wasn’t known at that time; it was a Roman practice introduced centuries later. Verses 7–8 foretell the scorn Jesus would endure on the cross. Verse 18 states they would divide His garments among them and cast lots for His clothing. It’s truly remarkable that these things were written hundreds of years before they happened—and they were all fulfilled as Jesus hung on the cross.

That lingering question, which at first sounds like a cry of defeat, is not the only part of Psalm 22 that Jesus claimed. Throughout the psalm, we read of the strong feelings Jesus wrestled with on the cross—abandonment, rejection, and heartbreak. However, verse 21 marks a shift. The tone of verses 1–20 sounds like that of someone who feels unheard and overlooked, but verse 21 ends by saying, “You have answered Me.” From there, the psalm transitions into praise and a song of victory. This transition is significant. When Jesus quoted verse 1, He was also claiming the rest of the psalm, which ends in triumph. His faith pierced through the darkness and rested in the Father’s love, even though He couldn’t feel it. It was a beautiful manifestation of His faith.

`What’s the worst pain you’ve ever experienced? How do you imagine the pain Jesus experienced?`

`Memorize your favorite passage from Matthew 27:32–56. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`