---
title:  inVite
date:   03/09/2026
---

### How Do We Respond?

Jesus, the Messiah, the Son of God, paid the price for the sins of the entire world. This event is the most spectacular and significant one the world has ever seen or ever will see—yet the response from the crowd was largely indifference. How is that possible?

Since that day, people who’ve read about this event or heard it preached in sermons have been reduced to tears and deeply convicted by the power of the gospel. However, the majority of those who were actual eyewitnesses to the event remained unfazed. This reality should be deeply convicting for us—to realize it’s possible to know a great deal about the cross, yet have it do nothing for our hearts. Lord, help us!

Ellen White warned us of this danger many years ago:

Many who profess to be Christians become excited over worldly enterprises, and their interest is awakened for new and exciting amusements, while they are coldhearted, and appear as if frozen, in the cause of God. Here is a theme, poor formalist, which is of sufficient importance to excite you. Eternal interests are here involved. Upon this theme [the Cross] it is sin to be calm and unimpassioned. The scenes of Calvary call for the deepest emotion. Upon this subject you will be excusable if you manifest enthusiasm.<sup>1</sup>

There is a danger in thinking, “We already know Jesus died for us” and treating it as something common. This is sacred ground and deserves our heartfelt attention. We need to pray that God will soften our stony hearts, touch us anew with the power of the cross, and help us see it with new eyes.

Thankfully, one eyewitness changed his opinion of Jesus and openly expressed His new belief. It was an unexpected person with an equally unexpected response. As Jesus breathed His last and an earthquake tore through the land, one man spoke his mind: “Truly this was the Son of God!” (Matt. 27:54). Who had spoken? The well-read priests? No; it was a Roman centurion. A pagan. A military commander. One who had a direct hand in carrying out Jesus’ execution. Beholding Jesus’ suffering on the cross brought this heathen man to the clear conclusion that Jesus is indeed the Son of God.

We need to pray that God gives us tender hearts to appreciate the magnitude of Christ’s sacrifice, and that this realization leads us to share the powerful message of the everlasting gospel with the world around us.

**Questions to consider:**

`How does the story of the cross move you when you read it? Or does it seem more like old news than something life-changing?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 2 (1885), 212, 213.