---
title:  inQuire
date:   05/09/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Scornful voices:**

1. What did the crowds and the religious leaders say at the cross? Matt. 27:39–43
2. How did these voices echo Satan’s first temptation in the desert? Matt. 4:6
3. How was this kind of rejection prophesied by David? Ps. 22:4–18

`Personal reflection: Have you ever heard someone say, “If _____ happened, then I would believe in God”? How did you respond?`

**Darkness and silence:**

1. What happened for three hours and what painful question from Jesus gave insight into His internal sufferings? Matt. 27:45, 46
2. Though Christ’s question sounded like defeat, how did quoting from Psalm 22 also indicate faith? Ps. 22:1, 2, 22–31

`Personal reflection: Have you ever asked God why? Why is this happening to me? What lessons did you learn?`

**Responding:**

1. What surprising response came from the Roman centurion, a pagan man? Matt. 27:54
2. What various kinds of responses can you identify from among the others gathered around the cross? Where do you see yourself in that crowd?

`Personal reflection: Have you ever felt ambivalent about the crucifixion? What has helped you develop a deeper appreciation for the cross?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Satan used the taunting crowds and religious leaders, who pressed Jesus to question His identity, to deter Him from completing His mission.
- The worst of Christ’s suffering was caused by separation from His Father, a pain that far exceeded any physical pain He felt.
- The Roman centurion was deeply impacted by the scene—a worthy example for everyone who encounters the story of the cross.