---
title:  Further Thought
date:  23/05/2025
---

“The psalms of David pass through the whole range of experience, from the depths of conscious guilt and self-­condemnation to the loftiest faith and the most exalted communing with God. His life record declares that sin can bring only shame and woe, but that God’s love and mercy can reach to the deepest depths, that faith will lift up the repenting soul to share the adoption of the sons of God. Of all the assurances which His word contains, it is one of the strongest testimonies to the faithfulness, the justice, and the covenant mercy of God. . . .

“ ‘I have sworn unto David My servant . . . with whom My hand shall be established: Mine arm also shall strengthen him. . . . My faithfulness and My mercy shall be with him: and in My name shall his horn be exalted. I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers. He shall cry unto Me, Thou art my Father, my God, and the Rock of my salvation. Also I will make him My first-born, higher than the kings of the earth. My mercy will I keep for him forevermore, and My covenant shall stand fast with him.’ Psalm 89:3–28.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 754, 755.

**Discussion Questions**:

`The human race has been a miserable failure in keeping up our end of God’s covenants with us. David, the “man after God’s own heart” despite some big mistakes, was still used powerfully to communicate the terms of our salvation to us. In what sense does David foreshadow Jesus, who did keep God’s covenant perfectly in our behalf? And why is what Jesus did in our behalf our only hope?`

`What passages in the Psalms have you found particularly helpful or meaningful in that they reflect the kind of experiences that you have gone through yourself?`

`Why do the Psalms make such frequent reference to the temple? What can we learn from David’s love for the sanctuary? How can this help us appreciate what we have in Jesus, as our heavenly High Priest “who is even at the right hand of God, who also makes intercession for us” (Rom. 8:34, NKJV)? Why do we, even as redeemed people, need Christ interceding for us in heaven?`

`Based on the Ellen G. White quote above, what has been your own experience with how God has lifted your “repenting soul to share the adoption of the sons of God” after the “shame and woe” of sin?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Character of the Law Revealed in Christ’s Life,” Signs of the Times, December 12, 1895, par. 5–10;\
“The Perils and Privileges of the Last Days,” Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, November 22, 1892, par. 7, 8.\