---
title:  Ezra Reads the Law
date:   02/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Nehemiah 8:1–18. 

> **MEMORY VERSE**: <p></p> 
> “They read the Book of the Law of God. They made it easy to understand, and explained what it meant. They did this so that the people could understand what was being read” (Nehemiah 8:8, ERV).

**THE JEWS FINISH** building the city wall. Nehemiah is their leader. He helps the builders put the gates into the wall. Then the work is done. When the Jews finish the wall, the people from the lands around Jerusalem are surprised. These people are Israel’s enemies. Then Nehemiah says, the enemies understand that “our God had helped us finish the work” (Nehemiah 6:16, NIrV). The enemies also understand that God is real. The enemies hate the Jews. They do everything they can to stop Israel from building. But the Jews finish the work God gives them to do anyway. 

After the Jews finish the wall, Nehemiah makes his brother Hanani the governor of Jerusalem. Nehemiah also makes Hananiah the leader of the city’s watchtower. Nehemiah chooses these two men because they trust and honor God (Nehemiah 7:2). The Jews finish the wall during the month of Elul (the 6th month; read Nehemiah 6:15).

So, what should the Jews do now? Nehemiah 8–10 shows us the things that happen next. These chapters show us that the Jews want to obey God’s law with all their hearts. God’s law fills the hearts of His people with joy. These wonderful things happen during the month of Tishri (Nehemiah 8:2). Tishri is the 7th month. As we shall see, it is an important time in Israel’s history.

_Nehemiah helps the builders put the gates in the wall._