---
title: 'God S People Meet Together'
date: 03/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 8:1, 2. These verses tell us why God’s law is important to His people. Why is it important?`

The Jews finish building Jerusalem’s wall. They move into the city. Then they all meet in the open in Jerusalem’s square, or public area. This meeting happens in the 7th month, the month of Tishri. Tishri is one of the most important months of the year for Israelites. During this month, the Jews celebrate the Feast of Trumpets on the 1st day of the month. The Feast of Trumpets is a holy day that helps the Jews get ready for God’s judgment. On the 10th day of Tishri, the Jews keep the Day of Judgment. Then on the 15th day of Tishri, the Jews keep the Feast of Tabernacles. This holy day helps the Jews remember everything God did for them in Egypt. He freed them from slavery. Then He took care of them in the desert for 40 years. 

After the Jews finish the wall, they meet on the 1st day of the month. On this day, the Jews also celebrate the Feast of Trumpets. The leaders invite everyone to meet in the public square in Jerusalem. All the men and the women in the land come for this special meeting. The Jewish leaders wish to read the law to the people. The leaders want the people to have a chance to learn about God and their own history.

The people invite Ezra to read to them from Moses’ law. Then the people build a special platform, or raised floor. They ask Ezra to stand on the platform where everyone can see him. Then they ask Ezra to read. The leaders do not force the people to come to the meeting. The people ask Ezra to bring the book of Moses’ law. They want Ezra to read God’s words to them. What parts does Ezra read? We think Ezra reads from the five books of Moses. These books include the law that God gave Moses on Mount Sinai. 

`Read Deuteronomy 31:9–13. What does the Lord tell His people in these verses? What lessons can we learn for ourselves from God’s Word?`

In Deuteronomy 31:9–13, Moses tells the Israelites to meet together and read God’s law. He tells them to read the law during the Feast of Tabernacles. Moses says Israel’s holy leaders should read God’s law to all the men, women, children, and the strangers in the land.

_The people want Ezra to read God’s words to them._