---
title:  READ AND OBEY THE LAW!
date:   04/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Ezra brings the law to read to the people. Yesterday, we wondered which parts of the law Ezra reads. Does Ezra read only the Ten Commandments again and again for half a day? To help us answer this question, we must understand what “the law” means. The law includes the five books Moses wrote: Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. These five books are named the Torah. The Torah includes the Ten Commandments. But the Torah is much more than that. It includes the history of God’s people. It shows God’s leading. The law helps show the people who they are and where they come from. The word “law” also includes all God’s commands to His people. God’s commands help us to know the spiritual road we should walk on. When Ezra reads, the people learn about their history. This history includes the seven days that God made heaven and earth and the stories about Joshua. Ezra reads to the people the stories, songs, poems, blessings, and rules in Book of the Law. Ezra reads about the trouble that God’s people have when they disobey God. As Ezra reads, the Jews remember that God is always there for His people.  

`Read Nehemiah 8:3; Deuteronomy 4:1; Deuteronomy 6:3, 4; Joshua 1:9; Psalm 1:2; Proverbs 19:20; Ezekiel 37:4; and Matthew 17:5. What do these verses teach us about studying the Bible? What should we do to understand it better?`

The people want to know more about God’s law. Why do the people feel this way? Remember, Ezra has read the law to the people since he arrived in Jerusalem 13 years ago. Ezra teaches them because he wants to serve God fully. He also wants to make the people’s lives better. As Ezra reads the law year after year, something wonderful happens. God’s words become real to the people. That is why the people ask Ezra to read to them when they finish the wall. They are interested in knowing more about God. So, they come gladly to the big meeting to hear Ezra read. Their hearts are full of respect for God. They have a deep wish to learn more about Him. In the same way, we should fill our minds with the Bible. Then we will want God to fill our lives fully.

_We should fill our minds with the Bible. Then we will want God to fill our lives fully._