---
title: 'How To Read And Understand The Law'
date: 05/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 8:4–8. As we see in these verses, who helps Ezra read the law to the people?`

Two groups of 13 men help Ezra during the public reading. The 1st group of 13 men (Nehemiah 8:4) helps Ezra to read the law. The 2nd group of 13 men (Nehemiah 8:7) helps the people understand the verses better. We do not have any information about how this plan worked exactly in the public square. It is possible that the men who helped Ezra read also held the Torah. As we saw, the Torah is the name for the five books Moses wrote. The Torah was written on scrolls. Scrolls are rolled up pieces of writing paper. Hebrew scrolls are heavy. They need to be opened, or unrolled. So, maybe the 2nd group of 13 men holds the scrolls and helps open them. These 13 men also may take turns reading the scrolls. Remember, the men read to the people from morning to noon. So, they need to find a way to reach everyone in the square.

What else do these men do to help Ezra read the law? “They read so the people could [can] understand. And they explained what it meant” (Nehemiah 8:8, ICB). What does this verse mean exactly? Maybe the men are explaining the meaning of the law. Or, maybe they are saying the words in a language the people can understand. Ezra reads to them in the Hebrew language. But many of the Jews may not understand Hebrew. Remember, the people lived in Babylon for many years. The Babylonians spoke Aramaic. So, maybe the Jews forgot their own language. At the same time, Nehemiah 8:8 may mean that 13 men also help explain the verses. As these verses show, sometimes it is helpful when people explain the Bible to us. Their explanations can help us understand God’s words better.

`Read Acts 8:26–38. What happens in these verses that is the same as what happens in Jerusalem in Nehemiah 8:4–8? What lessons can we learn from comparing these two stories?`

As Protestants, we believe that each person must know the Bible for himself or herself. We must not blindly accept what anyone says about Bible truth. We must see for ourselves if what they say is true. At the same time, we can be blessed by the teachings of other people too.

_As Protestants, we believe that each person must know the Bible for himself or herself._