---
title: 'The People Say Amen'
date: 06/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

What happens when Ezra opens the Torah, the Hebrew Bible? The people stand up. Before Ezra reads, he blesses God. After he reads, all the people say, “ ‘Amen, Amen’ ” (Nehemiah 8:6, NKJV). They lift their hands up to heaven. Then they bow their heads and worship God. They press their faces to the ground.

`Read what happens next in Nehemiah 8:9–12. Why do the leaders tell the people not to cry or be sad?`

“When the Jews come back home from Babylon, Ezra reads them the law. The people cry because of their sins. Then Nehemiah, Ezra, and the Levites [the holy men who helped Ezra teach the law] say kind words to the people. ‘Don’t [do not] be sad and cry. . . . Go and enjoy the good food and sweet drinks. Give some food and drinks to those [people] who didn’t [did not] prepare [cook] any food. Today is a special day to our Lord. Don’t [do not] be sad, because the joy of the Lord will make you strong.’ Nehemiah 8:9, 10 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 281, adapted.

As we see, the law helps the people to see that they are sinners. Then they start to cry. The same thing happens when God shows Himself to us. We start to understand that God is full of love and mercy. He is good and true. We see how weak we are. We see our mistakes. We understand we cannot save ourselves. The Bible helps us to see that God is holy. When we see that God is holy, we see that our sins are awful. That is why the people in Jerusalem start to cry. But God does not want them to be sad. Nehemiah, Ezra, and the Levites tell the people, “ ‘Don’t [do not] be sad, because the joy of the Lord will make you strong’ ” (Nehemiah 8:10, ERV). Yes, the people failed in the past. But they can trust in God’s power to save them and make them new.

Remember, Ezra reads to the people on the Feast of Trumpets. It is a holy day. On this day, trumpets will be played. The trumpets help the people remember to get ready for the Day when God will judge His people. That will happen ten days later. So, the people need to get their hearts ready now. That is why they cry. But the leaders tell them that God hears their cries. So, they can stop. God forgives their sins. Now it is time to be happy.

_“The people cry because of their sins.”_