---
title:  THE JOY OF THE LORD
date:   07/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

“ ‘The joy of the Lord will make you strong’ ” (Nehemiah 8:10, ERV). These words help us remember that God wants us to be happy. That is part of His plan for our lives. The joy we feel comes from our knowing God and His love. We should be happy because of everything God gives us. We should be glad because He is good. These thoughts should give us joy every day. When we find joy in God, then our joy will make us strong. Then we can meet whatever troubles come our way.

`Read Nehemiah 8:13–18. What happens in these verses? What do they tell us about the people and the leaders at this time?`

The next day the leaders of the people come to Ezra. They want to learn more about the Bible. The leaders show that they want to lead their community to God. The leaders understand that they must put God first in their lives. Then they will have success when they lead the people. That is why the leaders want Ezra to teach them more about God.

`Read Leviticus 23:39–43. What does God tell the Israelites to do? Why does God give them this command?`

Do you see that Nehemiah 8:14, 15, ERV, says that the people do what is written “in the law”? They obey the teachings that God gave Moses to give to Israel. So, we see from these verses how much the people want to obey God. After being prisoners in Babylon for 70 years, God’s people finally learn their lesson about obedience. 

In the verses in Leviticus, God tells the people to celebrate the feast with joy. God commands them, “ ‘You must be filled with joy in front of the Lord your God for seven days’ ” (Leviticus 23:40, NIrV). God wants the people to remember His mercy and forgiveness. Then they will be joyful about everything the Lord does for them.

`Why is it important to be joyful in the Lord during difficult times?`

_“ ‘The joy of the Lord will make you strong’ ” (Nehemiah 8:10, ERV). These words help us remember that God wants us to be happy._