---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 08/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**Additional thought**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “Instructed in the Law of God,” pages 661–668, in Prophets and Kings.

“Now the people must show faith in God’s promises. God accepts their sorrow for sin. Now, God wants His people to be joyful because He forgives them. God gives them His favor again. ... 

“Something happens every time a sinner turns back to the Lord. The sinner’s life is filled with joy. The sinner opens his heart to the Holy Spirit’s power. Then the sinner sees his own guilt. He sees how unclean his own heart is next to the heart of God. God searches the hearts of humans. He is holy. Next to a holy God, the sorrowful human sees himself as he really is. He is a sinner who is guilty of breaking the law. His punishment is death. But the sinner must not be sad and give up. God pardons him. So, the sinner feels joyful because God forgives his sins. The sinner finds joy in the love of his Father in heaven. It gives God glory to take back sinners who turn away from sin. God takes them into His arms of love. He heals their deep cuts from sin. He makes them clean. He covers them in His love the same as clothes.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 668, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`1. “ ‘The joy of the Lord will make you strong’ ” (Nehemiah 8:10, ERV). Is there something we need to do to have this experience of joy in our lives? If yes, what do we need to do?`

`2. We must be sorry for our sins. At the same time, we must be joyful in the Lord. How is it possible to do these things when they are so different from each other? How do God’s law and the Good News help us do that? For the answer, read Romans 3:19–24.`

`3. Read Nehemiah 8:10, ERV: “ ‘Go and enjoy the good food and sweet drinks. Give some food and drinks to those [people] who didn’t [did not] prepare [cook] any food. Today is a special day to our Lord. Don’t [do not] be sad, because the joy of the Lord will make you strong.’ ” What does this verse teach us about the different ways we can be joyful in the Lord?`

_God takes back sinners who turn from sin. He “takes them in His arms of love.”_