---
title:  Blessed through Curses
date:  28/06/2025
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 1

**Blessed through Curses**

Have you ever seen something explode in growth only for the circumstances to change drastically—to the point where you thought it would all come to nothing? How did that feel? That’s how the Israelites must have felt as the story of the book of Exodus unfolded.

In the closing chapters of Genesis, God told Jacob not to fear leaving the Promised Land and moving to Egypt with his entire family. God promised to make his family into a great nation there (Gen. 46:3). This must have been challenging for Jacob to accept because of the family story of his father Isaac waiting for a wife. Grandfather Abraham had expressly forbidden his servant, Eliezer, from taking Isaac away from the land of Canaan to find a wife for him (Gen. 24:6, 7). The Promised Land was more important to Abraham than the children a wife could bring. This value was clearly passed down, for even after Jacob had moved from Canaan to Egypt and lived there for seventeen years, when he was about to die, he had his son, Joseph, swear to bury his body back in Canaan (Gen. 47:29).

Yes, the Israelites had moved to Egypt and had grown. In language very reminiscent of the original command given by God to Adam and Eve (Gen. 1:28), the children of Israel had multiplied and filled the land (Exod. 1:7). However, that was the past. Things had turned in a very different direction. Even though their numbers had grown, or perhaps because their numbers had grown, they were oppressed and persecuted. God had promised that they would become a great nation, but now they were in danger of being wiped out.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 1:7–14 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind map all of Exodus 1.

` `