---
title:  Timing Is Everything
date:  29/06/2025
---

#### inGest

The Bible hints only briefly at the details of the Israelite sojourn in Egypt. It’s unclear why the biblical narrative skips over this period almost entirely. We are left with only a few descriptive phrases. We don’t know at what point they became enslaved, but we do know the Israelites grew so rapidly in number that the pharaoh feared they would join with an invading force, overrun the Egyptians, and then leave Egypt. At first glance, this seems like a strange idea. If they were so numerous, why couldn’t they just leave before being enslaved? For some reason, they didn’t. Likely, they had established homes and were comfortably settled, and therefore were not motivated to leave. Perhaps the whole enslavement process happened over time and in stages.

This is an important point in beginning to study this ancient story. When did the enslavement take place? This question is one that scholars of antiquity and biblical studies have long debated. Modern culture has struggled with the challenges of Creation and the Flood as those events are quite inaccessible to modern investigation. However, ancient Egypt has been studied in great detail. Archaeology conducted in both Egypt and the land of Canaan has led some skeptical scholars to believe that the Exodus, if it happened at all, must have occurred around 1230 to 1220 B.C. However, some details in the biblical story challenge this conclusion. 1 Kings 6:1 tells us that King Solomon began building the temple 480 years after the Israelites left Egypt. Many Christian scholars place the temple construction around 966–67 B.C., which would place the date for Exodus from Egypt around 1446–47 B.C.

These two historical interpretations are very clearly at odds with each other. While there are a few scholars today—even some who do not believe in the God of the Exodus—who think they can harmonize the biblical account with modern archaeological finds, most do not. It remains to be seen what future archeological discoveries might reveal. What’s important to remember is that many stories in the Bible have been proven true in the last two hundred years of archaeological excavations. At the same time, however, our faith that what’s in the Bible is true cannot rest entirely on whether modern methods of exploring our world’s history match the biblical narrative. While our faith should not be mistaken for belief without evidence, it is, nonetheless, still faith.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 1. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How do you deal with parts of the Bible where you long for more information?`

`How has your relationship with God been impacted by times when others have made your life difficult?`