---
title:  Two Amazing Women
date:  30/06/2025
---

#### inTerpret

Slavery did not effectively reduce the Israelite population as Pharoah intended. In fact, they spread even further throughout Egypt, so Pharaoh implemented a different strategy. His new plan was to kill the male children but allow the female babies to live. This strategy seems a bit strange; it would take years to lower the population of men by killing only newborn boys rather than killing adult males. We are also left to wonder how long this practice could be carried out before it impacted the Egyptian desire for a slave workforce. Apparently, Pharaoh was so desperate to counter the growing numbers of Israelites that he was willing to weaken the slave population that was so crucial for expanding infrastructure, such as building the cities of Raamses and Pithom.

Either way, in order to implement this, Pharaoh tasked two midwives, Shiphrah and Puah, with carrying out his plans. Given what Exodus 1 has already said about the growth of the Israelite people along with Moses’ later report of 600,000 Israelite men who left Egypt in the Exodus event (Exod. 12:37), it’s not easy to say exactly what role these two midwives played. Were they simply the two midwives in charge of a specific group of women? Or were there only two delivery nurses for the entire population of Israel? We can’t say for certain, but what the story does emphasize is that these two were God-fearing women. Because of their willingness to stand against Pharoah’s command, God rewarded them. Furthermore, in the biblical narrative, they have a place of honor by being named. So many actors in the Bible go unnamed, but not these two. God wanted us to know their names—Shiphrah (Beautiful) and Puah (Fragrant).

The most striking part of the story is perhaps that the two midwives acted against Pharaoh before any supernatural plagues had demonstrated God’s superior power over the gods of Egypt. These women stood for God’s people when all the signs around them said the gods of Egypt were more powerful than the God of Israel. Then, in an ironic twist, when Pharaoh questioned the midwives, they reported that the Israelite women were not like the Egyptian women. They said the Israelite women were “lively” when it came time to give birth (1:19). In other words, they were fast! They gave birth so quickly that the midwives, according to their report, didn’t even have time to show up. This word “lively” is, of course, a play on words—the exact opposite of what Pharaoh was attempting to accomplish. God used two common women to stand up to the most powerful man on earth. He often uses the unlikeliest people to carry out His plan.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Have you ever been so angry that you were willing to sabotage your own future, like Pharaoh did in trying to kill the baby boys?`