---
title:  Jesus, the New Israel
date:  02/07/2025
---

#### inVite

There are certain Christians today who believe in Jesus and yet find themselves doubting the stories recorded in the books of Moses. It seems they want to accept the person of Jesus and yet reject Moses’ testimony. They spiritualize the stories of Exodus as mere devotional material that has no real basis in history. This becomes a problem when we recall that Jesus quoted authoritatively from Exodus and the other books of Moses (e.g., Mark 12:26; Luke 16:31; 24:27). Jesus argued that to reject Moses is to reject Him (John 5:46, 47). An honest faith in Jesus must take seriously the writings and claims of Moses.

Jesus’ life, ministry, and mission cannot be properly understood separate from Israel’s history as recorded in the books of Moses. In a very real sense, Jesus personally relived the history of the nation of Israel. To begin with, Israel took refuge in Egypt, where they grew into a mighty nation before being called into the land of promise. Likewise, Egypt became a place of refuge for Jesus when He was a very young child (Matt. 2:14, 15).

Just as Jacob (renamed Israel; Gen. 32:28) had twelve sons (Gen. 35:22), Jesus also called twelve disciples (Matt. 10:1–4) who would go out and multiply His teachings in the lives of the new people of God. As the children of Israel multiplied, they became a threat to those around them, resulting in persecution and attempts to wipe them out. In the same way, the early followers of Christ multiplied rapidly (Acts 2, 4, 5) but were seen as a threat to the people, and attempts were made to destroy them. The growth of the church did not happen in an idyllic setting.

As with the nation of Israel, Christ’s life followed a pattern of difficulty. When things seemed to be going well in His ministry, He inevitably faced great challenges and threats to His work. Christ’s ministry grew exponentially, as recorded in the Gospel of Mark. However, too many people clamoring for Christ’s attention was always a threat to the success of His ministry. Jesus tried to deflect attention to avoid stirring up opposition, which is why He sometimes tried to convince people not to tell others about all the miraculous things He had done for them.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 1 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What other parallels do you see between the life and ministry of Christ and the history of the Israelite nation?`

`Have you ever seen success in the church bring about unexpected problems? How did you deal with them?`

`Prayer Response:`