---
title:  The Beginnings of Egyptian Slavery
date:  03/07/2025
---

#### inSight

“On account of the service that Joseph had rendered the Egyptian nation, they were not only granted a part of the country as a home, but were exempted from taxation, and liberally supplied with food during the continuance of the famine. The king publicly acknowledged that it was through the merciful interposition of the God of Joseph that Egypt enjoyed plenty while other nations were perishing from famine. He saw, too, that Joseph’s management had greatly enriched the kingdom, and his gratitude surrounded the family of Jacob with royal favor.

“But as time rolled on, the great man to whom Egypt owed so much, and the generation blessed by his labors, passed to the grave. And ‘there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph.’ Not that he was ignorant of Joseph’s services to the nation, but he wished to make no recognition of them, and, so far as possible, to bury them in oblivion. ‘And he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we: come on, let us deal wisely with them; lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that, when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies, and fight against us, and so get them up out of the land.’

“The Israelites had already become very numerous; they ‘were fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding mighty; and the land was filled with them.’ Under Joseph’s fostering care, and the favor of the king who was then ruling, they had spread rapidly over the land. But they had kept themselves a distinct race, having nothing in common with the Egyptians in customs or religion; and their increasing numbers now excited the fears of the king and his people, lest in case of war they should join themselves with the enemies of Egypt. Yet policy forbade their banishment from the country. Many of them were able and understanding workmen, and they added greatly to the wealth of the nation; the king needed such laborers for the erection of his magnificent palaces and temples. Accordingly he ranked them with the Egyptians who had sold themselves with their possessions to the kingdom. Soon taskmasters were set over them, and their slavery became complete. ‘And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigor: and they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in mortar, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field: all their service, wherein they made them serve, was with rigor.’ ‘But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew’ ” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [1890], 241, 242).

#### Journal

`After this week’s study, what personal applications are you convicted of in your life?`

`How are you able to trust God when trapped in a situation where you don’t see any way out?`

`Review your memory verse. How did it apply to your life this week?`