---
title:  The Missing Element
date:  06/08/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Hebrews 4:1–11**

**The Missing Element**

If the Bible is the word of God, and God’s word is powerful, then how is it that there are Bible scholars who profess atheism? If Jesus saves all those who call upon His name, then how is it that there are Christians who will go to hell? If the Sabbath is a day of rest, then how is it that there are stressed-out Sabbath keepers?

Apparently, merely having access to the Bible, even with an understanding of its original language, is not sufficient to engender Christianity. Knowing enough about Jesus to profess following Him is insufficient to secure salvation. And ceasing from your secular labor every seventh day is not adequate to ensure that you are experiencing the rest that God intends for the Sabbath.

In all three scenarios, the missing ingredient is the element of faith. Hebrews 11:6 tells us, “But without faith it is impossible to please Him.” Because while salvation is the free gift of God’s grace, faith is necessary to access the salvation: “For by grace you have been saved through faith” (Eph. 2:8, emphasis supplied). In order to enter into true Sabbath rest, we need to exercise faith in the One who gives the rest: “We who have believed do enter that rest” (Heb. 4:3).

#### inScribe

Write out Hebrews 4:1–11 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Hebrews 4:9, 10. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, outline, or mind-map the chapter.

` `