---
title:  Sabbath Rest Every Day
date:  07/08/2022
---

#### inGest

After Lot selfishly chose the well-watered, grassy plain of Jordan (Gen. 13:10, 11), God said to Abraham, “Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward: For all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever” (Gen. 13:14, 15, KJV). This promise was literally and initially fulfilled when the Israelites, led by Joshua, conquered Canaan. The same promise will be ultimately fulfilled when the seed of Abraham (the redeemed) inherit the entire earth, “northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward” (Rom. 4:13; Gen. 13:14, KJV).

In a similar fashion, the promise of rest made by God to the landless, wandering Israelites extended beyond a weekly day of rest. The promise “I will give thee rest” (Exod. 33:14, KJV) embraced a lifestyle, not just a day—a life of total trust in God, of oneness with Him. It was based on faith in Christ, which is why “they could not enter in [into God’s rest] because of unbelief” (Heb. 3:19). They went through the motions of keeping the weekly Sabbath without experiencing “My rest” (Heb. 3:11, 18, 19; 4:3, 5).

Since God refers to this rest as “My rest,” it follows that it must be a divine gift. Any unbeliever can rest from his or her physical work; but only a believer can rest in God’s work (past, present, and future). But since man cannot do God’s work, it follows that man cannot rest from it. That rest must be gifted to him . . . by active faith! This faith the Israelites did not exercise, and consequently they did not enjoy the rest from God—not under Moses, nor under Joshua, nor in David’s time, nor in Paul’s time.

The Bible declares, “But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe” (Heb. 11:6, KJV). This is non-negotiable and was required in Adam’s time, and without even minimal dilution, is required today. There never was a time in the history of salvation when it was not required. The “must believe” command is strengthened by God’s oath that without it no one can enter His rest (Ps. 95:11; Heb. 3:11).

Quite possibly, there are thousands of Seventh-day Adventists who “keep the Sabbath” by resting from secular work but who never experience what God calls “My rest.” Even for those who, by faith, accept “My rest,” there still remains the very fullest expression of that rest: when the redeemed will rest eternally from temptation, from the consequences of sin, and from life in a decaying world. Like Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, this comprehensive rest must be seen afar off and embraced by active faith . . . daily.

“There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God” (Heb. 4:9, KJV).

May the reader purpose in the heart daily to enter into that lifestyle rest “through active, living faith that works by love and purifies the soul.” (White, Faith and Works, 100.)

**Memorize your favorite verse in Hebrews 4:1–11. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`What does a life of rest in God look like?`

`How does the weekly Sabbath prepare us to live a life of rest?`