---
title:  Don’t Forget to Remember
date:  08/08/2022
---

#### inTerpret

From God’s view, an obedient life is the most blessed way to live (Deut. 28:1–14). The very basis of God’s covenant with Israel was the Ten Commandments (Exod. 19:4–6). While this obedience is anchored in the Decalogue, it is expressed in all other commands of God, all of which in some way express the principles of the Ten Commandments. Some examples are (1) not oppressing the stranger (Exod. 22:21); (2) compassion for widows and orphans (Exod. 22:22); and (3) respecting church leaders (1 Tim. 5:19).

None will argue that in the wording of the fourth commandment, the “rest” requirement is dominant. To some, avoiding wage-earning activities on the seventh day is the essence of Sabbath observance. However, there are two other stated requirements (sub-commands) not usually stressed but deserving of closer scrutiny. They are “work” and “remember.” Whatever else the fourth commandment requires, it clearly calls believers to (1) remember, (2) work, and (3) rest. Absent the remembering, there can be no proper Sabbath rest. These three requirements seem to follow a logical order.

The Sabbath commandment is directly connected to a specific time in a way none of the other nine are. In “teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you” (Matt. 28:19), pastors and Bible workers instruct baptismal candidates to rest on the seventh day after working six days. But no one is told when to remember! This neglect damages the spiritual aspect of Sabbath observance. As surely as the other nine commandments apply every day, the fourth commandment also has a daily application—in the area of remembering. As a principle, the Sabbath commandment must be remembered every day. Ellen White writes, “After the transgression of Adam the principles of the law were not changed, but were definitely arranged and expressed to meet man in his fallen condition.” (White, The Faith I Live By, 80.)

Each commandment is a verbal rendering of a principle. Principles are not time-bound. The Sabbath principle (recognition of and dependence upon the Creator) demands a moment-by-moment, day-by-day application or remembering. After all, the Ten Commandments are “the whole duty of man” (Eccles. 12:13, KJV). There can be no rest from this duty.

The temporal Sabbath day is once weekly; the spiritual Sabbath rest is daily. Sabbath keepers must be Sabbath keepers seven days a week!

` `