---
title:  The Facts of Faith
date:  10/08/2022
---

#### inVite

The King James Version states, “Without faith it is impossible to please him” (Heb. 11:6). Forty-four other translations express this precise thought! Hebrews 11:6 is inseparable from the idea that “the just shall live by faith” (Gal. 3:11). There is even a form of negative support in these words: “For whatsoever is not of faith is sin” (Rom. 14:23, KJV).

In salvation, faith is indispensable.

Jesus said, “Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God” (Matt. 4:4, KJV). But Paul says, “Live by faith” (Gal. 3:11). There is no conflict, because faith exists where the word exists. The Bible says, “So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God” (Rom. 10:17, KJV). What word? “The word of faith” (Rom. 10:8). Faith and the word cannot be separated, because to live by faith is to live by the word! Salvation itself results from faith in the word.

The reader is now directed to creation. Scripture states, “By the word of the Lord were the heavens made” (Ps. 33:6, KJV). The Psalmist fortifies this proposition thus: “For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast” (Ps. 33:9, KJV). Ellen White writes, “All things, material or spiritual, stood up before the Lord Jehovah at His voice.” (White, The Ministry of Healing (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1905), 414.)

This has everything to do with Sabbath keeping. Sabbath keepers honor the Creator who created by His word and sustains creation by His word. True Sabbath keeping, therefore, is an act of faith in the word of God. Ultimately, this is faith in the Living Word, Jesus Christ, the Creator, who also saves by the word. True Sabbath-keeping is an expression of active faith in the word of God.

`What impact does observing the Sabbath have on your faith in Jesus?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`