---
title:  Called to Make a Difference
date:  14/09/2019
---

**Introduction**: Ps. 112:4, 5

As a Christian, I feel I have a moral obligation to share the good news of salvation with the world—in doing so, I follow the example of Christ. To fully follow His example, however, I have to do more than speak truth—I have to live it. We are called to be the hands and feet of Christ to those around us, seeking, in whatever way possible, to lighten the load and ease the burden of our neighbor. If we overlook meeting the physical, mental, and emotional needs of those to whom we long to share the gospel, we will never truly be able to meet their spiritual needs.

It’s like people say: “Nobody cares how much you know until they know how much you care.”

This task of ministering to the whole person, especially in times of dire need, may be conceivable when considering those we consider dear to our hearts— our family and friends—but when we expand our view . . .

It can be overwhelming.

Everywhere you turn, something terrible is happening in the world. People are being subjected to extreme violence and oppression, communities are going hungry, children are being exploited and separated from their families, abject poverty is spreading, and the greed and selfishness of leaders at various levels of government victimize those most vulnerable in their communities.

How can we meet all of these needs? Is it even feasible to do or to try?

In and of ourselves, tackling the trials and challenges of the human race as a result of sin is an impossible feat. But when God calls us to accomplish a task, He does not leave us without the means to succeed. We are granted the tools needed to make a difference in our congregations, our communities, and sometimes even the world.

We have a world to win for Christ, but we are not meant to do it alone. By the power and guidance of the Holy Spirit, we can be compassionate, creative, and courageous in showing people that we care. Doing this opens the door to sharing the truths of Scripture that will not only improve people’s lives today but also give them a chance to accept eternity with a loving Savior and Friend.

I encourage you to look at your community today. As you study this week’s lesson, ask yourself, What can I, with the Holy Spirit’s help, do to show others that I care and want to make a difference? You may be surprised what doors will open when you start looking for opportunities to show mercy and love to a hurting world.

---

_Juliana Baioni, Rockville, Maryland, USA_