---
title:  The Sin of Inequality
date:  15/09/2019
---

**Evidence**: Ps. 139:13–16; Jer. 1:5; Matt. 6:25–33

Matthew 6:25–33 indicates that the God who provides for the birds, flowers, and grass can meet our needs for food, water, and clothing—we need not worry. But such an understanding of this text generates troubling questions to the social conscience of the believer.

More than three million children die from hunger in the world each year.1 They don’t say “I’m starving to death” when they’ve missed a couple of meals. They really are starving to death! Moreover, particularly in the developed world, many of us have practiced the principle of “shop till you drop.” But to quote David Bornstein, “For very poor people, clothing is shelter. ‘In earthquakes, the shake kills people; in a tsunami, the water kills people; but in winter, the cold does not kill people. It’s the lack of proper clothing.’ ”2

How do I reconcile this teaching in Matthew 6 with those realities? First, we can’t simply say, “Those people don’t trust God enough.” Nonsense! A baby doesn’t even know how to trust yet. And the God I know, the God who loves me and whom I love, according to Scripture, loves and values the life of each baby even before it comes forth from its mother’s womb (cf. Ps. 139:13–16; Jer. 1:5)! So what is the answer to this dilemma?

The primary cause of hunger, poverty, and lack of clothing in this world must be people’s sinful decisions that cause inequity. The truth is, God has provided amply, but we have hoarded, damaged, or wasted the resources He has provided. Romans tells us that creation—and Paul is not speaking there of humanity but the earth—groans under the consequence of sin.

It is not lack of divine provision but lack of equity through my sinful choices and yours that contribute to the suffering in this world. We can’t be Bible believers and deny that our choices affect the impoverished of this world. When I read Matthew 6, I see that I have a personal responsibility that I can’t ignore. I must have some role in feeding and clothing humanity.

**React**

`1. Am I contributing to the inequity of food and clothing in our world?`

`2. What can I do to decrease the suffering in our world in the following four areas: (1) time, (2) finances, (3) spiritual witness, (4) mission service?`

---

<sup>1. “World Child Hunger Facts,” Hunger Notes, updated July 2018, https://www.world hunger.org/world-child-hunger-facts/.</sup>

<sup>2. David Bornstein, “Bridging the Clothing Divide,” New York Times, October 3, 2012, https://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/03/clothing-the-poorest-for-survival/.</sup>

_Chad Stuart, Spencerville, Maryland, USA_