---
title:  The Cause
date:  17/09/2019
---

**Testimony**: Prov. 31:8, 9

“Among all whose needs demand our interest, the widow and the fatherless have the strongest claims upon our tender sympathy and care. ‘Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.’

“. . . And how does the Lord provide for these bereaved ones? . . . He works a miracle upon human hearts. He expels selfishness from the soul; He unseals the fountain of benevolence. He tests the love of His professed followers by committing to their tender mercies the afflicted and bereaved ones, the poor and the orphan. . . . Every kind act done to them in the name of Jesus is accepted by Him as if done to Himself, for He identifies His interest with that of suffering humanity, and He has entrusted to His church the grand work of ministering to Jesus by helping and blessing the needy and suffering. On all who shall minister to them with willing hearts the blessing of the Lord will rest.”1

“In lowly, miserable places, surrounded with poverty, disease, and guilt, many are patiently bearing their own burden of suffering, and trying to comfort the hopeless and sin-stricken about them. Many of them are almost unknown to the churches or to the ministers; but they are the Lord’s lights, shining amid the darkness. For these the Lord has a special care, and He calls upon His people to be His helping hand in relieving their wants. Wherever there is a church, special attention should be given to searching out this class and ministering to them.”2

“In a special sense Christ has laid upon His church the duty of caring for the needy among its own members. He suffers His poor to be in the borders of every church. They are always to be among us, and He places upon the members of the church a personal responsibility to care for them. “It is the duty of each church to make careful, judicious arrangements for the care of its poor and sick.”3

**React**

`1. God asks us to take up the cause of those who are poor, widowed, or orphaned. Why does He ask this of us? What does it have to do with our relationship with Him?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Welfare Ministry, p. 214.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Counsels on Health, p. 14.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, My Life Today, p. 245.</sup>

_Brianna Lale, Nice, France_