---
title:  "SJW: So as Jesus Walked"
date:  18/09/2019
---

**How-to**: 1 John 2:5, 6

Social justice issues flood the headlines of the media. Injustice affects all from the rich down to the poor of all ethnicities. Some take the causes of social injustices to the extreme, perhaps even using them for selfish reasons; these are called social justice warriors, or SJWs.

Followers of Christ are encouraged “to walk, even as he [Christ] walked” (1 John 2:6), and He walked in love because “in him verily is the love of God perfected” (verse 5). We see examples of this walk in the early church in Acts 2 and 4. We see examples of this in our Master Himself in His ministry to the untouchables: lepers, blind, lame, prostitutes, and social outcasts. But what are we to do in the twenty-first century? And how are we different from the next SJW?

Always point to Christ and the blessed hope soon to come. When you go out to minister to others, you may be asked why you do it. Point them to Christ (cf. 1 Pet. 3:15). Confess Christ before men (cf. Luke 12:8). Tell them of what He has done in your life. Even if you think of it as small or uninteresting, confess Him. Take God at His promise that as you acknowledge Him publicly, He will do likewise for you (Matt. 10:32). Tell them that this present life of sorrow and pain will soon end. Tell them of the promise of a “new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness” (2 Pet. 3:13) and of the glories that come with the earth made new (Revelation 21; 22). Herein lies one difference between us helping and ministering to others and others who know not Christ—we have hope to share.

Remember and share why you are doing this. When going out to help in any respect, remember that you are a tool. You are not doing this, but Christ working in you (Phil. 2:13). Christ is the handyman; you are the hammer.

Seek to minister every day. Before embarking on your day, ask God to place opportunities in your way so that you can minister to others and share Christ. Ask for discernment to see situations as God sees.

**React**

`1. Why do we go out and march for social reforms?`

`2. What are some social injustices you are passionate about?`

`3. Do you think Jesus would march, and for what cause?`

---

_Jamaal Roberts, College Park, Maryland, USA_