---
title:  It’s Easy! (Or Is It?)
date:  19/09/2019
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 22:35–40; 1 Corinthians 13

In church, we tend to skip over the “love” mandate (Matt. 22:35–40), because, well, we already know that part. And love is easy. Isn’t it?

Truthfully, it’s the hardest thing God asks of us, and it’s not something that we can do on our own. Why not? For one thing, people are terrible. People traffick other people; They are greedy, maximizing their profits at the expense of others’ well-being. People are lazy, trying to take the easy way out. People are cruel and cause destruction everywhere they go.

It’s easier for us to love those who look and live like us; the ones whose lives we approve of; those who have the “right” aspirations. We must not only love the nice ones: We are to love everyone.

As everything gets busier and more chaotic, finding time and energy to put into loving nonstop gets harder. Because love is hard work. It requires vulnerability, authenticity, and a God-given love for others. This doesn’t come naturally, and it also takes practice.

You can be too busy to love. You can also forget that this is your most important mission from God. Find a way to plan for love—schedule it, come up with creative ways to demonstrate God’s love in your community, and keep yourself accountable. Love multiplies. When you share it, you never run out, because love keeps growing.

You can and should be generous—recklessly so—with your love. It’s God’s gift that we are meant to share, and it takes many forms. Love looks like standing up with and for the voiceless (Prov. 31:8, 9), advocating for the downtrodden and outcasts (Isa. 1:17), and treating the strangers among us fairly and kindly (Lev. 19:33, 34). The Bible makes it clear that actions are expected, not just words. Jesus tells of a people so dedicated to living out God’s love in practical ways that they don’t question who they are helping (Matt. 25:31–46). They just love.

Trust God to be glorified through your humility. Trust Him to work miracles. He only asked you to love. He didn’t ask you to save the world. But by throwing yourself wholeheartedly into love, the world just might be saved anyway, one person at a time.

**React**

`1. What is the connection between social justice and love? Why are these intertwined?`

`2. What holds you back from being recklessly generous with your love?`

---

_Kayla J. Ewert, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_