---
title:  Come, You Blessed of My Father
date:  20/09/2019
---

**Exploration**: Isa. 61:1, 2; 58:6

**Conclude**

Social justice has become heavily politicized in recent decades, and especially so in recent years. This has caused many Christians to abstain from becoming involved in such issues. However, by Jesus’ example, we see that we are called to be active participants in this arena.

Much of Jesus’ ministry while on earth was focused on providing justice and mercy to oppressed and marginalized individuals. Jesus fulfilled the words of Isaiah that stated that He would “ ‘tell the Good News to the poor’ ” and “ ‘tell the prisoners of sin that they are free, . . . tell the blind that they can see again’ ”and “ ‘free those who have been treated unfairly, and to announce the time when the Lord will show kindness to his people’ ” (Luke 4:18, 19, ICB).

Ultimately, as we seek to follow Jesus’ mandate to feed the hungry, welcome the stranger, clothe the naked, take care of the sick, and visit the imprisoned, our involvement must be rooted in a desire to see God’s love and mercy shared with all people across all sectors of life.

**Consider**

- Reading about a few of Jesus’ miracles and interactions with people of questionable character (suggestions: Mark 2:13–17; Luke 5:12–16; 7:1–10; 14:1–6; John 7:53–8:11) and identifying the individuals who received His physical and spiritual healing. Compare and contrast how He treated each person with how society might treat that person today.
- Researching the term social justice and prayerfully allowing the Holy Spirit to guide your personal philosophy on issues of social justice.
- Connecting with a local community organization to learn more about how you can become involved in current projects to assist marginalized individuals in your community. If no opportunities exist, consider creating an opportunity.
- Writing an encouraging letter to someone you know who may be experiencing injustice or discrimination in his or her life.
- Creating a visual representation of compassion through a drawing, painting, or another art form.


**Connect**

Matthew 25:31–46; Luke 4:14–30; 17:1–4; John 4:5–42.

Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chap. 43, “Barriers Broken Down.”

C. S. Lewis, The Screwtape Letters, chap. 23.

---

_Lerone Carson, Columbia, Maryland, USA_