---
title:  The Second Return of the Exiles
date:  01/10/2019
---

In Ezra 7:1–10 and 8:1–14, we see that King Artaxerxes I allows Ezra to return to Jerusalem (the year is 457 b.c.) and to take with him anyone who would like to return. Not much is known about the relationship between the king and Ezra, or whether Ezra worked for the court. Ezra 8 lists the heads of the families of those who returned, starting with the priestly returnees, followed by the royal line, and ending with the general Jewish population. Twelve families are named specifically, giving the impression that this is a deliberate reminder of the 12 tribes of Israel.

The passage lists about 1,500 men, which would approximate 5,000 to 6,000 total, counting women and children. This was a much smaller group than the first group that had returned with Zerubbabel and Joshua.

`Read Ezra 7:1–10. What does it teach us about Ezra?`

Ezra is a scribe with a priestly legacy. As a priest, he is a descendant of Aaron (the brother of Moses), who was the first priest of the nation of Israel. Because of the accounts recorded in Ezra, as well as in Jewish tradition, Ezra’s name stands very high even today. Whether Ezra served as a scribe in the court of King Artaxerxes is not known; thus, this description of Ezra as a scribe refers either to his previous responsibilities or to his abilities, which he begins to use after his arrival in Judah. However, Ezra must have worked for Artaxerxes in some close capacity in order for the king to send him out as the leader of the expedition.

In Ezra 7:6 and 10, Ezra is labeled as a “skilled” and “devoted” scribe or teacher. The word “skilled” literally means “rapid,” connoting someone who is quick in comprehension and mental maneuvering of information. Ezra had a quick mind—he was known for his knowledge and mental astuteness regarding the law of God. Moreover, the fact that the king chose Ezra to bring a group of Israelites to Judah is a testament to Ezra’s courage and leadership abilities.

`Notice, Ezra prepared his heart to seek “the law of the Lord” (Ezra 7:10). How would we apply that principle to our own lives now?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

About seventy years after the return of the first company of exiles under Zerubbabel and Joshua, Artaxerxes Longimanus came to the throne of Medo-Persia. The name of this king is connected with sacred history by a series of remarkable providences. It was during his reign that Ezra and Nehemiah lived and labored. He is the one who in 457 B.C. issued the third and final decree for the restoration of Jerusalem. His reign saw the return of a company of Jews under Ezra, the completion of the walls of Jerusalem by Nehemiah and his associates, the reorganization of the temple services, and the great religious reformations instituted by Ezra and Nehemiah. During his long rule he often showed favor to God’s people, and in his trusted and well-beloved Jewish friends, Ezra and Nehemiah, he recognized men of God’s appointment, raised up for a special work. 

The experience of Ezra while living among the Jews who remained in Babylon was so unusual that it attracted the favorable notice of King Artaxerxes, with whom he talked freely regarding the power of the God of heaven, and the divine purpose in restoring the Jews to Jerusalem. . . . 

. . . As he learned more and still more concerning God’s dealings with His children, and comprehended the sacredness of the law given at Sinai, Ezra’s heart was stirred. He experienced a new and thorough conversion and determined to master the records of sacred history, that he might use this knowledge to bring blessing and light to his people.  

Ezra endeavored to gain a heart preparation for the work he believed was before him. He sought God earnestly, that he might be a wise teacher in Israel. As he learned to yield mind and will to divine control, there were brought into his life the principles of true sanctification, which, in later years, had a molding influence, not only upon the youth who sought his instruction, but upon all others associated with him.—_Prophets and Kings_, pp. 607, 608. 

Christ would have everyone possess in abundance the grace of heaven. He desires that His joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. Every soul is to discipline himself in strict, faithful service, just as verily out of meeting as in meeting. You are in full view of the heavenly angels, and every faithful disciple may be, if he will, as was Ezra before the king. The hand of God is upon all those for good who seek Him, but His power and His wrath are against those who forsake Him, and who trust in the help and friendship of the world, going to the god of Ekron to inquire, and heeding not the counsel of the living God. 

The children of God will know who is their helper. They will know in whom they can trust implicitly, and with Christ’s help, they may, without presumption, have a holy confidence.—_This Day With God_, p. 354.  