---
title:  The Blessing of the Family
date:  25/05/2022
---

For Jacob, the last seven years of exile are a burden, and yet, these also are the most fruitful years. In them, Jacob will father 11 of the 12 children who will become the ancestors of God’s people.

This section constitutes the center of Jacob’s story (Gen. 25:19–35:26), and it begins and ends with the key phrase God “opened her womb,” referring to Leah (Gen. 29:31) and to Rachel (Gen. 30:22). Each time, this statement is followed by births; the evidence is that these births are the result of God’s miraculous action.

`Read Genesis 29:31–30:22. How are we, today, to understand the meaning of what takes place here?`

God opened Leah’s womb, and she had a son Reuben, whose name contains the verb ra’ah, which means to “see.” Because God “saw” that she was unloved by Jacob (Gen. 29:31), this child was compensation for her in her pain and suffering.

In addition, she gives the name of Simeon, which contains the verb shama‘, “heard,” to her second son, because God had “heard” (shama‘) the depth and the humiliation of her pain and, thus, had pity on her just as He had heard Hagar’s affliction (Gen. 29:33).

Leah’s son “Simeon” also will resonate with the name of Hagar’s son “Ishmael,” which means “God will hear” (see Gen. 16:11). When Leah gives birth to her last son, she calls him Judah, which means “praise.” Leah does not refer to her pain or even her blessing anymore. She just focuses on God and praises Him for His grace.

Strangely, it is only when Leah cannot give birth again that God “remembers” Rachel and opens Rachel’s womb (Gen. 30:22). Rachel, the loved wife, had to wait seven years after her marriage, and 14 years after her betrothal with Jacob, to have her first son (Gen. 29:18, 27; compare with Gen. 30:25). She gave him the name of “Joseph” to signify that God had “ ‘taken away [’asaf ] my reproach’ ” and “ ‘shall add [yasaf ] to me another son’ ” (Gen. 30:23, 24, NKJV). However wrong some of these situations were, God was still able to use them, even if He didn’t condone them, in order to create a nation from the seed of Abraham.

`In what ways does this story reveal that God’s purposes will be fulfilled in heaven and on earth, despite human foibles and errors?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When Jacob realized the deception that had been practiced upon him, and that Leah had acted her part in deceiving him, he could not love Leah. Laban wished to retain the faithful services of Jacob a greater length of time, therefore deceived him by giving him Leah, instead of Rachel. Jacob reproved Laban for thus trifling with his affections, in giving him Leah, whom he had not loved. Laban entreated Jacob not to put away Leah, for this was considered a great disgrace, not only to the wife, but to the whole family. Jacob was placed in a most trying position, but he decided to still retain Leah, and also marry her sister. Leah was loved in a much less degree than Rachel.—Spiritual Gifts, vol. 3, pp. 117, 118.

Inspiration faithfully records the faults of good men, those who were distinguished by the favor of God; indeed, their faults are more fully presented than their virtues. This has been a subject of wonder to many, and has given the infidel occasion to scoff at the Bible. But it is one of the strongest evidences of the truth of Scripture, that facts are not glossed over, nor the sins of its chief characters suppressed. The minds of men are so subject to prejudice that it is not possible for human histories to be absolutely impartial. Had the Bible been written by uninspired persons, it would no doubt have presented the character of its honored men in a more flattering light. But as it is, we have a correct record of their experiences.<br/>
Men whom God favored, and to whom He entrusted great responsibilities, were sometimes overcome by temptation and committed sin, even as we at the present day strive, waver, and frequently fall into error. Their lives, with all their faults and follies, are open before us, both for our encouragement and warning. If they had been represented as without fault, we, with our sinful nature, might despair at our own mistakes and failures. But seeing where others struggled through discouragements like our own, where they fell under temptations as we have done, and yet took heart again and conquered through the grace of God, we are encouraged in our striving after righteousness. As they, though sometimes beaten back, recovered their ground, and were blessed of God, so we too may be overcomers in the strength of Jesus. On the other hand, the record of their lives may serve as a warning to us. It shows that God will by no means clear the guilty. He sees sin in His most favored ones, and He deals with it in them even more strictly than in those who have less light and responsibility.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 238.

We are wholly dependent on God, and our faith is strengthened by still believing, though we cannot see God’s purpose in His dealing with us, or the consequence of this dealing. Faith points forward and upward to things to come, laying hold of the only power that can make us complete in Him. “Let him take hold of My strength, that he may make peace with Me,” God declares, “and he shall make peace with Me.”—Temperance, pp. 195, 196.