---
title:  Jacob Leaves
date:  26/05/2022
---

In this story, Jacob—who deceived his father and his brother to acquire the family birthright, and who stole the blessing that Isaac designed to give to his elder son—nevertheless remained passive toward Laban and served him faithfully. Jacob knows well that he has been deceived by his father-in-law, and yet, he let it go. It is difficult to understand Jacob’s passivity considering his temperament. Jacob could have revolted, or at least resisted Laban or bargained with him. But he didn’t. He just did what Laban asked, no matter how unfair it all was.

Nevertheless, at the birth of Rachel’s first son, Joseph, Jacob finally reached the fourteenth year of his “service” to Laban (Gen. 30:26), and now considers leaving Laban in order to return to the Promised Land. But Jacob is concerned about providing for his “ ‘own house’ ” (Gen. 30:30).

`Read Genesis 30:25–32. What is happening here, and what kind of reasoning does Jacob use? What is Laban’s response?`

It had been a very long detour for Jacob, who had long been gone from home. It probably had not been his original intention to stay away from his country for so long, but events kept him away for years. It’s now time to return home, and what a family he will return with too!

Meanwhile, Jacob’s unnatural compliance suggests that Jacob has perhaps changed; he has understood the lesson of faith. That is, Jacob waits for God’s signal to go. It is only when God speaks to him that Jacob decides to move.

God reveals Himself to Jacob as “ ‘the God of Bethel’ ” and commands Jacob to leave Laban’s house and return to “ ‘your family’ ” (Gen. 31:13, NKJV) with the same words that God used to call Abram to leave “ ‘from your family’ ” (Gen. 12:1, NKJV).

What helped him see that it was time to go, too, was the attitude of Laban’s sons and Laban himself (see Gen. 31:1, 2). “Jacob would have left his crafty kinsman long before but for the fear of encountering Esau. Now he felt that he was in danger from the sons of Laban, who, looking upon his wealth as their own, might endeavor to secure it by violence.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 193.

Hence, he took his family and possessions and left, thus beginning another phase in the great saga of God’s covenant people.---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

As time passed on, Laban became envious of the greater prosperity of Jacob, who “increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses.” Laban’s sons shared their father’s jealousy, and their malicious speeches came to Jacob’s ears: He “hath taken away all that was our father’s, and of that which was our father’s hath he gotten all this glory. And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was not toward him as before.”<br/>
Jacob would have left his crafty kinsman long before but for the fear of encountering Esau. Now he felt that he was in danger from the sons of Laban, who, looking upon his wealth as their own, might endeavor to secure it by violence.—Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 192, 193.

Jacob was distressed. He knew not which way to turn. He carried his case to God and interceded for direction from Him. The Lord mercifully answered his distressed prayer. “And the Lord said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.<br/>
“And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his flock, and said unto them, I see your father’s countenance, that it is not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been with me. And ye know that with all my power I have served your father. And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten times; but God suffered him not to hurt me.” Jacob related to them the dream given him of God, to leave Laban and go unto his kindred. Rachel and Leah expressed their dissatisfaction of their father’s proceedings. As Jacob rehearsed his wrongs to them and proposed to leave Laban, Rachel and Leah said to Jacob, “Is there yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father’s house? Are we not counted of him strangers? for he hath sold us, and hath quite devoured also our money. For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that is ours, and our children’s; now then, whatsoever God hath said unto thee, do.”—The Story of Redemption, pp. 90, 91.

Since the sin of our first parents there has been no direct communication between God and man. The Father has given the world into the hands of Christ, that through His mediatorial work He may redeem man and vindicate the authority and holiness of the law of God. All the communion between heaven and the fallen race has been through Christ. It was the Son of God that gave to our first parents the promise of redemption. It was He who revealed Himself to the patriarchs. Adam, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Moses understood the gospel. They looked for salvation through man’s Substitute and Surety. These holy men of old held communion with the Saviour who was to come to our world in human flesh; and some of them talked with Christ and heavenly angels face to face.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 366.