---
title:  The Process of Judgment
date:  16/03/2019
---

**Introduction**: Rev. 17:1, 2

A news item online caught my attention. A judge in South Africa had ruled against two paramedics who abandoned an elderly, sick woman in an ambulance and disappeared. Delivering the judgment, the judge ruled that the conduct displayed by the paramedics contravened the patient’s dignity and right to proper health care.

The court heard that back in 2009, two paramedics were assigned the duty to transport the sick woman to a health facility in Port Shepstone—a task that they never completed. Instead of handing over the patient to the hospital, the paramedics left the patient in the back of the ambulance in the hospital’s ambulance depot.

In his ruling, the judge delivering the sentence said, “The conduct of the employees is unacceptable and unprofessional. They abandoned a vulnerable, sick elderly woman in an ambulance so that they could knock off. The treatment the patient received is inhuman and degrading.”1

Before this court ruling, the paramedics had been dismissed from their positions in the hospital but challenged their dismissal in a labor court, which ruled that they be reinstated. This is just one episode of a worldly judgment, which is often riddled with twists and turns.

A judgment is an explanation that a court of law gives at the end of the hearing of a case. The judgment also explains why the court made a particular order. In some instances, a judge or a team of judges delivers reasons for the judgment.

Worldly judgments are not always just. Human judges are prone to threats, bribery, and bias, while other legal machineries are prone to manipulation by interested parties. In the end, many worldly court rulings turn out inaccurate and unfair. We can draw a difference between worldly judgments that take place in worldly courts manned by humans and a heavenly judgment that God delivers. In a heavenly judgment, nothing is compromised. Unlike worldly judges whose judgment can be compromised, God’s decision is final. The Bible in Galatians 6:7 teaches that “whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.” This week we study about the final judgment that God will deliver upon Babylon. May the Holy Spirit lead us to a deeper understanding.

---

<sup>1. Ernest Mabuza, “Judge Has Harsh Word for Paramedics Who Abandoned Elderly Patient,” Times Live, April 6, 2018, https://www.timeslive.co.za/news/south-africa/2018 -04-06-judge-has-harsh-words-for-paramedics-who-abandoned-elderly-patient/.</sup>

_Benard Mutuku, Makueni, Kenya_