---
title:  Babylon of Our Time
date:  17/03/2019
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 14:8

Religious Babylon, much as it existed in the time of John, is with us in the twenty-first century. With what goes around in religious circles today, we may say that we are living in the times of the great apostasy. Today, many churches proclaim Christianity but practice a different thing. This simply fulfills what Paul wrote: “The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance to their own desires; and will turn away their ears from the truth and will turn aside to myths” (2 Tim. 4:3, 4, NASB).

As predicted in 2 Timothy, many professedly Christian churches today openly approve of homosexuality while others have embraced the theory of evolution. These activities only point to the workings of the dragon through the beast. It is clear that Satan is working day and night to mix up things, confuse people, and lead them to make decisions contrary to what the Bible teaches.

In Revelation 14:8, John describes a scene of destruction upon Babylon. Apparently God will finally judge the world. However, before He destroys a wayward society forever, God has given His children a chance to repent of their sins and turn to Him. Only those who will remain unrepentant to the end will face destruction with the prince of darkness.

What we see today in society and in the church are warnings of an impending judgment that God will bring upon this world. Unfortunately, many people are still in the dark and choose to ignore the warnings. God is becoming increasingly displeased with what the world calls modern civilization. The Bible teaches that in the last days people will be ignorant of the impending judgment (Matt. 24:37–41; 2 Pet. 3:3–10). The moral and spiritual corruptions that are becoming more prevalent, disbelief in Christ’s second coming, and the emergence of false christs all confirm that God will soon pronounce judgment on the world.

But as children of God, we have the assurance that God will intervene and give us the power to survive. Ours is to accept the truth and live by it.

**React**

`In what ways do you see 2 Timothy 4:3, 4 being fulfilled?`

---

_Joseph Wambua, Makueni, Kenya_