---
title:  On the Judgment Day
date:  19/03/2019
---

**Testimony**: Jer. 51:13

“At the close of the thousand years, Christ again returns to the earth. He is accompanied by the host of the redeemed and attended by a retinue of angels. As He descends in terrific majesty He bids the wicked dead arise to receive their doom. They come forth, a mighty host, numberless as the sands of the sea. What a contrast to those who were raised at the first resurrection! The righteous were clothed with immortal youth and beauty. The wicked bear the traces of disease and death.”1

“Now Satan prepares for a last mighty struggle for the supremacy. While deprived of his power and cut off from his work of deception, the prince of evil was miserable and dejected; but as the wicked dead are raised and he sees the vast multitudes upon his side, his hopes revive, and he determines not to yield the great controversy. He will marshal all the armies of the lost under his banner and through them endeavor to execute his plans. The wicked are Satan’s captives. In rejecting Christ they have accepted the rule of the rebel leader. They are ready to receive his suggestions and to do his bidding.”2

As Satan and his army prepare for the final attack, they seem unaware of what awaits them; the hour of their judgment has just come. In the end, they will be consumed in eternal fire.

“The great controversy is ended. Sin and sinners are no more. The entire universe is clean. One pulse of harmony and gladness beats through the vast creation. From Him who created all, flow life and light and gladness, throughout the realms of illimitable space. From the minutest atom to the greatest world, all things, animate and inanimate, in their unshadowed beauty and perfect joy, declare that God is love.” 3

This is just a glimpse of what will happen on that final day of judgment. One thing is sure: Christ and His faithful shall carry the day.

**React**

`Why can’t everyone be saved and inherit the kingdom of God?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 662.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 663.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., p. 678.</sup>

_Josephine Nduku, Makueni, Kenya_