---
title:  Can We Avoid the Beast?
date:  20/03/2019
---

**How-to How**: Rev. 17:3

Revelation reveals that the dragon has distributed power to his agents worldwide, with whom he works to deceive God’s people. Even among Christians, there are sons and daughters of evil. They are tares growing together with the wheat. However, when the time comes, Christ will send His angels to gather the weeds, burn them, and harvest the wheat (Matt. 13:36–43).

But before Christ comes to take us home, we must avoid being part of the spiritual rot that takes place in our churches today. There is a breach of faith that is increasingly happening in our society. This is attributable to the work of the dragon, the beast, and their agents, whose presentation, character, and influence are outlined in Revelation 17.

For a long time there have been various forms of apostasy that have crept into the church. We need to identify the false teachers and their false teachings. To begin with, false teachings drift from the key and true doctrines of the Bible, lacing them with a worldly touch. In other words, they sound like the real Christian doctrines, yet they are not. But apostasy can also happen as a complete renunciation of the Christian faith, where one becomes completely antichrist.

We must guard against the false teachings engineered by the beast. And the best way to do that is to know the truth. To identify a counterfeit, we must study the real thing. Jesus taught that we should recognize a tree by its fruit (Matt. 12:33). Here are some ways to identify false teachers of Christianity: Their teachings about Christ. If the teachings do not uphold Christ and His work of redemption, then they are wanting.

Their understanding of the gospel. Paul warns, “If anybody is preaching to you a gospel other than what you accepted, let them be under God’s curse” (Gal. 1:9, NIV).

Their character traits that glorify the Lord. If they reject God’s plan, prophesy for wealth, or promote themselves over Christ, then they miss the point (Matt. 7:15–20; Jude 11).

**React**

`Can you identify any apostate doctrines in your society?`

---

_Rose Ndanu, Matuu, Kenya_