---
title:  The Beast in the Church
date:  21/03/2019
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 17:9–11

The case of Judas Iscariot as the betrayer of Christ is an indication of how the dragon could find his way right into the church of Christ. Judas did not wholly surrender to Christ, and in the end, his actions revealed him to be totally antichrist.

While John sees images and figures in his visions, the Bible clearly explains itself regarding the symbols, figures, and images so that no one is left in doubt. The heads, mountains, and kings mentioned in Revelation 17:1–3 all portray the scale of worldly influence and power that the dragon wields. The dragon, of course, is Satan (Rev. 12:9), and his influence continues to infiltrate the church.

Today, there are many satanic agencies in the church, not unlike Judas Iscariot, who are trying to rob God and His people both spiritually and materially. They have sold their allegiance to Christ and now stand against Him and His principles.

The Bible, through Jude, teaches how Christians can recognize apostasy in the church and stand with Christ to the end. Jude advises Christians to “earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints” (Jude 3). This teaching implies that the war will be continuous. True Christians have a constant battle against false teachings and their teachers.

Every Christian is, in fact, involved in this fight—not just leaders in our churches. As believers, we should sharpen our discernment skills so that we are able, through the power of the Holy Spirit, to identify and prevent any form of apostasy in our midst. “For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of our God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, and our Lord Jesus Christ” (Jude 4).

False teachers sneak in, in a manner that is not easy to detect. For example, think of Judas, whom people thought of as one of the disciples; little did they know that he would betray his Master. In addition, false teachers specialize in imitating the truth so that their subjects cannot tell the difference between truth and error. Finally, they deny the only Master, Jesus Christ.

**React**

`If we are able to identify false teachers in the church, how can we help them to come back to Christ?`

---

_Patrick Nzuve, Nairobi, Kenya_