---
title:  The Final Judgment
date:  22/03/2019
---

**Exploration**: Rev. 16:15

**Conclude**

A beginning must have an end. No matter how long it takes, God will finally judge the world. The prostitute Babylon, the beast, and all related to them will come to an end. It will be a time for saints to celebrate and to confirm that God is, indeed, just and fair in His ruling. Every Christian, from all corners of the world, looks to that day—when God will finally declare the fate of sin and sinners.

**Consider**

- Visiting a court of law to witness how judgment is delivered. Note the options that the accused person has before the final judgment is made. Compare how this is similar to or different from heavenly judgment.

- Offering a Bible study on the fall of Babylon. Which evidences can you cite in your lesson to support that spiritual Babylon will fall?

- Organizing a skit about the false teachers in the church. Use your play to spread awareness about this challenge.

- Writing descriptions of the animals used in Revelation 13:1–8. For each animal, note the characteristics that make it fit the imagery in John’s vision.

- Using technology to spread the three angels’ messages. Utilize social media platforms such as Facebook, WhatsApp, and Instagram. Think of how you can avert modern-day apostasy. Use Revelation 13:6–8 as your guide.

- Making a list of all the bad things associated with harlotry. Note how the components of your list give meaning to the spiritual Babylon described in Revelation 17:3.

- Researching the ancient kingdoms of Greece, Babylon, and Rome. Dig out more facts about them and note why they fit John’s description.

**Connect**

Daniel 7:23, 24; Luke 4:6, 7; 2 Peter 2:1, 2.

Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, chap. 42, “The Controversy Ended.”

Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 2nd ed., vol. 7, p. 849.

---

_Siprose Ngina, Makueni, Kenya_