---
title:  Worship the Lord!
date:   30/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week’s lesson
Nehemiah 12:27–29; 1 Chronicles 25:6–8; 1 John 1:7–9; Nehemiah 12:31–42; Hebrews 9:1–11.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “They sang to the Lord. They praised him. They gave thanks to him. They said, ‘The Lord is good. His faithful [loyal] love to Israel continues forever’ ” (Ezra 3:11, NIrV).

**THIS WEEK’S MEMORY VERSE** helps us understand how the Jews worship God in Ezra’s time. We see how thankful to God they are. So, they start to praise Him. In 515 b.c., the Jews finish building the temple (Ezra 6:15–18). Then “they gave the Temple to God to honor him” (Ezra 6:16, ICB). About 60 years later, the people finish building Jerusalem’s wall. The Jews also give the city’s wall to God. They celebrate that time too (Nehemiah 6:15–7:3; Nehemiah 12:27–43).

In those days, God’s people often gave Him the things they built. It was part of their way of life. What else did the Jews give to God? They also gave Him houses and public buildings. They celebrated these times with singing, music, feasts, and joy. The priests, or religious leaders, made God’s people clean during these times. In the past, King David gave an animal gift to God during a celebration. The animal was killed. So, after that, Israel’s leaders copied what David did. Solomon gave God an animal offering. Then he brought God’s ark back to the temple (1 Kings 8:5).

This week, we will look at how the Jews worshiped God in Nehemiah’s time. What can we learn from their worship?

_The people “gave the temple to God to honor him” (Ezra 6:16, ICB)._