---
title:  SONGS ABOUT THE LORD
date:   01/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The Levites helped the priests, or holy leaders, in God’s temple. A special group of Levites was put in charge of singing and music. God wanted worship in the temple to be beautiful. So, God gave the Levites special rules to follow when they sang and played music in the temple. 

King David chose Asaph to be the worship leader in the temple. So, all Asaph’s future sons were singers. They were “musicians in charge of the worship services at the house of God” (Nehemiah 11:22, NIrV). 

`In 1 Chronicles 25:6–8, we read about the singers in the temple. “They played music for the Lord’s temple” (1 Chronicles 25:6, NIrV). What do these verses teach us about how important music is to their worship?`

The singers are Levites. They come from one of the 12 family groups of Israel. As Levites, they already work in the temple. So, it is part of their job to provide music during worship in the temple. In King David’s day, a music school is opened. David is in charge of the school. The school has teachers and students. The students are young and old. They take turns working in the temple. They play music for worship. Some Levites use instruments. Some Levites sing. Other Levites take care of the music instruments and the clothes the musicians wore. Why does the temple in David’s time have so many musicians with different jobs? God wants His people to grow as musicians. He wants their music skills to get better and better. Then their worship in the temple will be better too. God wants their worship to be excellent. 

What else can we learn from the school of music in David’s time? When we praise God, we must praise Him from our hearts. Then our praises will bring other people to God. 

`How do the songs and music in your church give you joy? What has been your experience with music and worship?`

_When we praise God, we must praise Him from our hearts._