---
title: 'Clean Hearts And Minds'
date: 02/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The Bible tells us that the people give the city’s wall to God. Next, the singers come to Jerusalem. Then “the religious leaders and the Levites made themselves holy, and they made the people, the gates, and the wall holy” (Nehemiah 12:30, NLV). The Hebrew word written as “made holy” is “ta-HAR.” It means “to be clean.” This word is used in many parts of the Old Testament. It shows that God makes us clean. He cleans our hearts and minds from sin.

**“God is in the light. We should live in the light, too. If we live in the light, we share fellowship with each other. And when we live in the light, the blood of the death of Jesus, God’s Son, is making us clean from every sin. If we say that we have no sin, we are fooling ourselves, and the truth is not in us. But if we confess our sins, he will forgive our sins. We can trust God. He does what is right. He will make us clean from all the wrongs we have done” (1 John 1:7–9, ICB).** 

`What do these verses teach us about God’s power in our lives? Why do we need God’s forgiveness?`

The temple is an important part of the Jewish religion in Bible times. God wants the worship in the temple to lead people to Him to be saved. Animal offerings are an important part of that worship. They are word pictures. They help God’s people see that Jesus’ blood makes them clean from sin. In the same way, we must understand what Jesus does for us. Then we will learn to love Him more. That is why the Israelites often talked about what God did for them in the past. It helped them to know God’s love. It helped them to see that God is good. The same thing is true for us. When we know God’s love, we will worship Him with joy. 

Today, we should feel joy in the Lord too. We should thank God for His forgiveness. A thankful heart helps us to have hope. Then it is easy to praise the Lord. We will see that God’s love is beautiful. What is the most beautiful picture of God’s love? Jesus’ death for us on the cross. 

`We all have sinned in the past. Each of us fight against sin every day. But there is hope at the cross. There, Jesus forgives us fully. Why not ask Jesus for this forgiveness right now?`

_God cleans our hearts and minds from sin._