---
title: 'Animal Offerings'
date: 04/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the worship celebration in Nehemiah 12:43. Why do the priests, or religious leaders, offer God many animal gifts? Why are these gifts an important part of the worship celebration?`

As we read yesterday, animal gifts are the most important part of worship at the temple. These animal gifts have a special name: sacrifices. That name shows us two things. The animals must be killed. And their death is a word picture. It shows the Jews Jesus’ death on the cross for sin. There are many different sacrifices in Old Testament times. Some animals are killed to show God’s forgiveness for sin. People also bring animal gifts to the temple to thank God for His love. The sacrifices help the people to remember the truth about God. He is holy. He is a God of love. These animal gifts also help the people to remember God’s promise. God promises to send a Savior to His people. The Savior will die for them. That is why the Savior is named God’s Lamb.

`Read Nehemiah 12:43 again. Then read John 1:29, 36; 1 Corinthians 5:7; and Revelation 5:6, 12, 13. What do these verses teach us about the sacrifices or animal gifts? What truth do these animal gifts show?`

Do you know how many times Nehemiah writes the word “happy” in Nehemiah 12:43? Four times! What does that show us? The people are happy. Yes, they also feel respect for God. They honor Him and feel holy fear for Him too. At the same time, look at all the joy they feel! When they worship God, they feel happy. When we worship God, we must respect Him. We also must have holy fear for Him in our hearts. But we also must remember to feel happy. Psalm 95 shows us how to worship God with hearts full of joy: “Come, let us sing praise to the Lord! Let us shout praises to the Rock [Jesus] who saves us” (Psalm 95:1, ERV). We also must remember to bow down and kneel in front of the Lord (Psalm 95:6). So, we must be happy when we worship God. We must worship Him with a joyful heart. At the same time, we also must remember to honor and respect Him. 

`Make a picture in your mind of Jesus on the cross. What do you feel? How can we find joy in the cross too?`

_We must worship God with a joyful heart. At the same time, we also must remember to honor and respect Him._