---
title:  RELIGIOUS LEADERS AND LEVITES
date:   05/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the gifts that the people bring for the priest, or religious leaders, and the Levites in Nehemiah 12:44–47. Why are the Jewish people happy about the priests and the Levites who serve God?`

`What is the work of the Levites a word picture for? For the answer, read Hebrews 9:1–11.`

“Jesus works for us right now in heaven. This work is a very important part of God’s plan to save us. It is as important as Jesus’ death on the cross. Jesus started His work for us on the cross. Then He went to finish that work in heaven. With faith, we must join Him in heaven. He is on the other side of the curtain in the Most Holy Room of the temple in heaven. ‘Jesus has already gone there. He has become our Religious Leader forever and has made the way for man to go to God. He is like [the same as] Melchizedek.’ Hebrews 6:20 [NLV].”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 489, adapted. 

The people back then do not understand God’s saving plan the way we do today. But the people understand enough to know that the Levites’ work is important. The Levites help serve in the temple. So, the people are excited to help the Levites. Remember, the Jews spend a lot of time with God. They read the Bible. They pray. They worship. They give their lives to God again. As they do these things, God helps His people to understand something important. They need to start taking care of God’s house. The special work done in the temple stopped. So, it needs to start again. The people are happy when it does. 

_“By faith, we must join [Jesus] in heaven.”_