---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   06/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: Read Ellen G. White, “Growing Up Into Christ,” pages 67–75, in Steps to Christ. 

“God will take His saved people to heaven. There, they will learn more about the cross. They will sing about the cross forever. In Jesus our King, we will see Jesus our Savior. We always will remember that Jesus’ power made the planets. He is God’s Beloved. He is the King of heaven. The angels love to praise Him. This same Jesus made Himself lower than the angels. He accepted the guilt and shame of our sins. Then His Father hid His face from Jesus. Jesus’ heart broke. His heart was filled with sadness for this lost planet. That sadness crushed out His life on the cross. This same Jesus made all the planets in outer space. He will decide what happens to everyone who ever lives. This same Jesus put aside His glory. He came down to this earth to save us. He loves us so much. This Bible truth will fill the minds and hearts of everyone in heaven. God’s story will fill everyone with wonder forever. They will never stop being excited about it. God’s saved people will look at their Savior in wonder. They will see the Father’s glory shining in Jesus’ face. God’s people also will look at Jesus’ throne. His throne will never end. When God’s people think about that, they will start singing: ‘The Lamb is very worthy! He was killed. He saved us. He buys us back from sin with His own precious blood!’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 651, 652.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Why must we worship God with joy and respect? Talk about your answer in class.`

`2. The Jews finish building their city wall. Then they give the wall to God. They ask Him to protect their wall. They understand that no wall by itself can keep them safe. So, God must protect their wall. Solomon says: “If it is not the Lord who builds a house, the builders are wasting their time. If it is not the Lord who watches over the city, the guards are wasting their time” (Psalm 127:1, ERV). What does Solomon’s wisdom here show us we should do first before we start any work for the Lord?`

_“The angels love to praise [Jesus].”_