---
title:  Jesus Makes Our Faith Complete
date:  05/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Hebrews 10:35–39; Hebrews 11:1–19; Hebrews 11:20–28; Hebrews 11:31; Hebrews 12:1–3.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “We must never stop looking to Jesus. He is the leader of our faith, and he is the one who makes our faith complete. He suffered death on a cross. But he accepted the shame of the cross as if it were nothing because of the joy he could see waiting for him. And now he is sitting at the right side of God’s throne” (Hebrews 12:2, ERV).

WHAT ARE YOUR FAVORITE chapters in Hebrews? Most people will say they like chapters 11 and 12 the best. These chapters show us how the Christian life is the same as a race. If we run to the end, we will get a rich reward.

We now run the final part of this “race.” Jesus stands at the finish line to cheer us on. Jesus already ran the race for us. So, He is the best example of how we should run. Jesus ran ahead of us to open a way to God in heaven (Hebrews 6:19, 20; Hebrews 10:19–23). So, we can trust the reward that waits for us when we finish the race.

Hebrews 11 also explains the meaning of faith. When we have faith, we trust in the promises of God before we see them happen. In our lesson for this week, we will ask: What is faith? How did people in the Bible show faith? Most of all, how did Jesus show us faith? Jesus “is the who makes our faith complete” (Hebrews 12:2, ERV). So, He is our best example, for sure.