---
title:  Living By Faith 
date:  06/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 10:35–39. What does God say to us in these verses?`

As Seventh-day Adventists, we are the end-time people of God. So, God expects us to be patient and not give up. Then we will get the things God promised us (Revelation 13:10; Revelation 14:12). What is the secret to not giving up? Paul tells us: “We must hold on to the hope we have” (Hebrews 10:23, ERV; Hebrews 4:14). Paul already showed us that God did not give the promise of rest to the Israelites in the desert. The Israelites failed to get the promise because they had no faith (Hebrews 3:19). The book of Hebrews shows us that God is ready to give Christians the things that He promised (Hebrews 9:28; Hebrews 10:25, 36–38). So, Christians must show faith if they want to get these things (Hebrews 10:39).

Paul starts his talk about faith with a quote from Habakkuk 2:2–4. In these verses, Habakkuk asks God why He lets evil people continue to hurt good people (Habakkuk 1:12–17). Habakkuk and his people are suffering. So, they want God to punish right away the ones who hurt them. God promises Habakkuk that He will help the people. But the people must be patient (Habakkuk 2:2–4). Habakkuk and his people live at a time before the promise will happen. In the same way, we live at a time when we must wait for God to keep all His promises to us. God promises Habakkuk: “ ‘In just a little while, he who is coming will come. He will not wait any longer’ ” (Hebrews 10:37, NIrV; read also Habakkuk 2:3).

This message is really about Jesus. Jesus is the One who comes. So, does Jesus really delay His coming and put off His promises to us? Not at all! Jesus already came to die for us (Hebrews 9:15–26). He also will come again at the right time, for sure (Hebrews 9:27, 28; Hebrews 10:25).

God also says to Habakkuk: “ ‘The one who is right with God will live by faith’ ” (Hebrews 10:38, ERV). Paul says the same thing in Romans 1:17 and Galatians 3:11. Romans 1 is helpful because it says that “we are made right with God by faith in Him” (Romans 1:17, NLV). This verse shows us that God saves us by His mercy. His faith makes us loyal to Him. Because God keeps His promises to us (2 Timothy 2:13), we stay loyal to Him.