---
title:  The Faith Of Abraham 
date:  07/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Paul explains what faith is: “Now faith is being sure we will get what we hope for. It is being sure of what we cannot see” (Hebrews 11:1, NLV). Then Paul gives us a list of people in the Bible who showed faith. They showed their faith by the way they lived.

`Read Hebrews 11:1–19. What did these heroes of faith do that showed their faith? How do their actions show us that they were sure of getting the things that God promised them?`

For sure, the most important person in Hebrews 11 is Abraham. Abraham offered to give Isaac to God as a burnt offering. This act teaches us many things about faith.

Isaac was not the only son Abraham had. Abraham also had a son with Hagar, the servant of Sarah. Sarah did not want Ishmael or his mother to live with the family anymore. God told Abraham to honor the wish of Sarah. God promised to take care of Ishmael and Hagar. So, Abraham sent Ishmael and Hagar away. God promised to make Abraham the father of His special people. God chose Isaac, not Ishmael, to help start this family (Genesis 21:12, 13). But in Genesis 22, God asks Abraham to offer Isaac as a burnt offering. At first look, this command goes against the promise God made to Abraham in Genesis 12–21, right? Paul talks about this strange command in Hebrews 11:17, 18.

`Paul tells us how Abraham solves the problem about what to do. Abraham believes that God will wake up Isaac from the dead after Abraham gives him to God as a burnt offering. The faith of Abraham is surprising because we do not read about anyone in the Bible who woke up from the dead before this time. How did Abraham come to believe this powerful Bible truth? Hebrews 11:12 says that Isaac was born by the power of God. At that time, Abraham was a very old man. Sarah herself was old. She never had any children before. Paul says, “When there was no reason for hope, Abraham believed” (Romans 4:18, NIrV). Abraham “believed that God could make dead people live” (Romans 4:17, WE; read also Romans 4:19, 20). Abraham and Sarah had as much chance of having a child as a dead person! But God caused Isaac to be born from their “dead” bodies anyway. So, Abraham believed God can work this same miracle in the future. God can wake up Isaac from the dead.`