---
title:  'Moses: Believing In What Cannot Be Seen'
date:  08/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Hebrews 11:20–28 tells us about men in Bible history who had strong faith. What things did these men do? How do these men show their hope in the things they cannot see?

Moses is the second most important person in this chapter about faith. When Moses was born, his parents hid him from Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Pharaoh commanded that all baby Hebrew boys should be killed. But the parents of Moses “were not afraid of the king” (Hebrews 11:23, NLV). Later, when Moses “was grown up, he did not want to be called [named] the son of Pharaoh’s daughter” (Hebrews 11:24, WE). The daughter of Pharaoh is the Egyptian princess who adopted Moses. As her adopted son, Moses was chosen to be the next king of Egypt. But Moses chose to become the leader of freed slaves.

`Compare the experience of Moses in Hebrews 11:24–27 with the Christians in Hebrews 10:32–35. What is the same about both experiences?`

Moses sees that God offers him a better reward than Pharaoh offers him. Pharaoh promises Moses something he can see: riches and power on this earth. God promises Moses something that he can see only by faith. Moses chooses the reward God offers him. The reward from God is the same reward we read about in Hebrews 10:35. God promises this reward to everyone who believes in Him.

For sure, these words about Moses touched the readers of Paul in a powerful way. The Christians suffered insults because of their faith. Evil people hurt them and took their belongings (Hebrews 10:32–34). Some of the Christians were thrown in prison because they chose to follow Jesus (Hebrews 13:3). In the same way, Moses chose to join the people of God. Moses lost much that this life offers because of his choice. Moses exchanged the riches of Egypt for insults. Why? Because he believed that the reward God offered him was better than anything Egypt offered him.

`What tests and troubles have you had because of your faith? What did you give up or lose because of your faith? How does the reward waiting for you cheer your heart?`