---
title:  The Faith Of Rahab 
date:  09/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 11:31 and Joshua 2:9–11. In these verses, we read about Rahab. Rahab was born among people who did not worship God. Rahab also was a prostitute. As a prostitute, Rahab sold her body for sex to get money. So, why is this woman included in the list of Bible heroes?`

For sure, Rahab is the last person we may expect to see on the list in Hebrews 11. Rahab is one of only two women that Paul names in his list. Rahab is number ten on the list. The nine names before her name are the early fathers of Israel. Each of these men is known to be holy. When we come to Rahab, we are surprised for two reasons. She is a woman. She is also, as we said, a prostitute.

The most surprising thing about Rahab is that she is at the center of the list. Paul writes his list in a special form. Whenever Paul adds a new name to his list, Paul introduces this new person by telling us what this person did by faith. Paul starts with the story of Cain and Abel and tells us what Abel did by faith. Then Paul tells us about the next heroes of faith in his list: Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Sarah, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, and Moses. The next big hero of faith in Bible history is Joshua. We may expect Paul to say to us, “By faith, Joshua leads the people to the Promised Land.” But Paul leaves Joshua off the list and moves on to the faith of Rahab. Then Paul adds, “ ‘What more should I say?’ ” (Hebrews 11:32, WE). Paul then adds some names and tells us about things that happen later on in Bible history. But Paul does not give us a lot of information about these things.

So, why is Rahab on the list of heroes of faith? What was her act of faith? Rahab heard, believed, and obeyed without seeing the things she believed in. She did not see the Ten Awful Curses God put on Egypt. Rahab did not see God lead His people on dry land through the Red Sea. Rahab did not see water flow from the rock. Or bread fall from heaven. But Rahab believed in God anyway. She is a good example of faith for the Christians that Paul writes to in the Book of Hebrews. These Christians did not hear Jesus preach or see Him do a miracle. But they believe in Jesus and accepted Him as their Savior. Rahab is a good example for us, too. We also did not see Jesus do any of these wonderful miracles. God asks us to believe in Jesus anyway, the same as Rahab.