---
title:  Jesus Makes Our Faith Complete 
date:  10/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 12:1–3. What do these verses ask us to do?`

Paul starts his list of heroes of faith in Hebrews 11. Paul ends his list in chapter 12 with Jesus. In the same way, Paul ends his letter to the Hebrews with Jesus. (Paul also starts his letter with Jesus.) Jesus is the “ ‘one who is coming’” and who “ ‘will not be late’ ” (Hebrews 10:37, ERV). Jesus also “is the one who makes our faith complete” (Hebrews 12:2, ERV). This verse shows us that Jesus makes our faith in God possible. Jesus also is our perfect example of what a life of faith is all about.

Jesus is the pioneer of our faith in three ways:

First, Jesus is the only One who ran the “race” of faith and crossed the “finish line.” The other people on the list in Hebrews 11 did not fully finish the race because they did not get what God promised them (Hebrews 11:39, 40). After Jesus ran the race of faith on earth, Jesus went to heaven. He sat down on the right side of God the Father. We will join Jesus there in the future. The other heroes of faith Paul talks about in Hebrews 11 will be there, too (Revelation 20:4).

Second, the perfect life that Jesus lived made it possible for Bible heroes to run the race of faith (Hebrews 10:5–14). What if Jesus never came to this earth and ran the race of faith? Then no one can finish the race.

Third, Jesus is the reason for our faith. He showed us the love of God for sinners. God never stops trying to save us. That is why we will get our reward in the end. So, we must not give up. We must do what Jesus did. Jesus stayed patient and loyal to God. Jesus obeyed God in every way. Jesus did these things for us when we had no faith (2 Timothy 2:13). Our faith in Jesus really shows His love for us.

`Jesus “is the one who makes our faith complete” (Hebrews 12:2, ERV) because He showed us how to run the race of faith. How did Jesus run? He gave up everything for us (Philippians 2:5–8). Jesus never sinned. He looked far ahead to the reward that waited for Him in the future. His reward will be the joy He gets from seeing people saved by His mercy. That is why Jesus put up with misunderstanding when He lived on this earth. That is why He accepted the shame of the cross (Hebrews 12:2, 3).`