---
title:  Further Thought
date:  11/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“By faith you accepted Jesus. You belong to Him now. So, you must also grow in Him by faith. You grow by giving and taking. You must give everything to Him: your heart, your plans, your life. Give yourself to Jesus to obey all His commands. You also must take everything He offers you. You must take His full blessing. Then Jesus will live in your heart. He will be your strength. He will make you holy. He will be your Helper forever. He will help you to obey.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 70, adapted.

“God does not ask us to believe without first giving us enough proof for our faith. God gives us many reasons to trust Bible truth about Himself. But we can always choose to doubt. Our faith must rest on the proof God gives us. We should not trust our feelings to help us decide what we believe. People who wish to doubt will have the chance to doubt. People who really want to know Bible truth will find plenty of proof for their faith.

“Our minds cannot completely understand the love and works of our Everlasting God. He is the Holy One. He will forever be a mystery. The smartest person on this earth cannot solve this holy mystery. ‘Do you think you really understand God? Do you completely understand God All-Powerful? That knowledge is higher than the heavens and deeper than the place of death. So what can you do? How can you learn it all?’ Job 11:7, 8 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 105, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Paul says, “Faith helps us understand” (Hebrews 11:3, ERV). What is the connection between faith and understanding? What exactly does faith help us understand?`

`The Greek word “pistis” means “faith.” “Pistis” shows us (1) belief in God and (2) loyalty to Him. Why are both meanings important to our understanding about how we live “by faith”? How did the people in Hebrews 11 show their loyalty to God? How did their loyalty show their faith? How can we live as they lived?`