---
title:  The Letter To The Hebrews And To Us
date:  25/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Hebrews 2:3, 4; Hebrews 10:32–34; Hebrews 2:18; 1 Kings 19:5–18; Hebrews 1:2.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “You must be patient. After you have done what God wants, you will get what he promised you” (Hebrews 10:36, ERV).

HAVE YOU EVER WANTED TO TRAVEL BACK IN TIME to hear Jesus or one of His 12 followers preach? Sure, we can read parts of their sermons in the Bible. But that is not the same thing as hearing Jesus or His followers preach a whole sermon in person. God does give us one complete sermon in the Bible: the letter to the Hebrews. Some Bible experts say that this letter is the first full sermon we have.

Paul wrote the letter to the Hebrews. He tells his readers that he wrote the letter “to help you” (Hebrews 13:22, WE). Paul wrote Hebrews to Christians who were attacked and hurt after they accepted Jesus. These Christians lived through many hard times. People lied and said mean and nasty things against the Christians in public to hurt them (Hebrews 10:32–34). Some of the Christians lost money and riches when they accepted Jesus (Hebrews 13:5, 6). We all have suffered some of these same things today for our faith, right?

So, Paul encourages his readers (and us) to stay strong in faith. We must have faith in Jesus. When times are hard, we must look only at Jesus. Jesus is in the temple in heaven right now. There, He works hard to save us. He answers our prayers and gives us power over sin.