---
title:  A Strong And Beautiful Start 
date:  26/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

If we want to understand Hebrews, we must first know more about the people Paul wrote to. Who were they? What happened to them in the past? What is happening in their lives when they get the letter from Paul?

`Paul writes his letter to a group of Christians. What experience do these Christians have after they accept Jesus? Read Hebrews 2:3, 4 for the answer.`

Hebrews 2:3, 4 shows us that the people Paul writes to did not hear Jesus Himself preach. These people heard the Good News from other preachers.

Paul also says the preachers “proved to us” that their message came from God (Hebrews 2:3, ERV). God Himself  “showed that this message is true by signs and wonders. He showed that it’s true by different kinds [types] of miracles. God also showed that this message is true by the gifts of the Holy Spirit” (Hebrews 2:4, NIrV). Often, many miracles happened when preachers announced the Good News in new places. These preachers healed the sick and cast demons out of people. Often God poured His Spirit on people, too. Then these new Christians got spiritual gifts.

This same thing happened when the Christian church first started. God poured His Spirit on His followers in Jerusalem. They started to talk in languages they never knew before. They did many miracles (Acts 2, 3). Philip did miracles in Samaria (Acts 8). Peter did miracles, too, in Joppa and Caesarea (Acts 9, 10). So did Paul in Asia Minor and Europe (Acts 13–28). The miracles showed that the messages of these men came from God (Hebrews 12:25–29).

The Holy Spirit helped Christians to believe that God forgave their sins. So, Christians were not afraid to be judged by God. Their prayers were bold. Their faith was strong. Their religious experience was filled with joy (Acts 2:37–47). The Holy Spirit also made people free from demons. This work was powerful proof that God was stronger than Satan. The Spirit showed that the kingdom of God was alive in the hearts of people that God freed from Satan.

`When did you first accept Jesus as your Savior? What is your story? How has your faith in Jesus grown stronger since that time? Why should we take time to remember how God first worked in our lives to bring us to Him?`