---
title:  Hard Times 
date:  27/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When people joined the church, their whole lives changed. They became different from the people in the community around them. The people in the community felt judged by the holy lifestyle of the Christians. So, the people caused a lot of trouble for the church.

`What experience did the Christians in the book of Hebrews have after they accepted Jesus as their Savior? Read Hebrews 10:32–34 and Hebrews 13:3 for the answer.`

Paul writes to Christians who suffered because of their faith. (You can read in Acts 16:19–22 and Acts 17:1–9 about other Christians who were attacked because of their faith). People locked the Christians in prison. Possibly, the Christians were beaten. Leaders at that time were not fair. They often punished people without proof that the people were guilty (read Acts 16:22, 23 for an example).

`Read Hebrews 11:24–26 and 1 Peter 4:14, 16. How do the experiences of Moses and the Christians in 1 Peter help us understand why Christians were hurt and beaten?`

Do you see the words “to suffer with God’s people” in Hebrews 11:25 (NLV)? Moses chose to suffer shame and insults when he gave His life to God. In the same way, we may suffer for Jesus when we follow Him, just as He suffered for us. Christians had this same experience in New Testament times. Many people hated Christians. Why? Because Christians had beliefs that many non-Christians thought were strange. People can get upset easily when they do not understand your beliefs. They also can get angry when your lifestyle makes them feel guilty or ashamed. About 20 years after Jesus woke up from the dead, Tacitus, a Roman leader, believed that Christians were guilty of hating all people accept other Christians. Why did Tacitus say this? We do not know for sure. Whatever his reason, we know his charge was false. But his words show us that many Christians suffered for their faith. That group included the Christians that Paul wrote to in his letter.

`What does it mean to suffer for Jesus?`