---
title:  Sickness 
date:  28/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Christians that Paul writes to in Hebrews were hurt and rejected by members of their own community. The Christians fought hard to keep their faith. They fought a good fight. Now they are tired and worn out.

`Read Hebrews 2:18; Hebrews 3:12, 13; Hebrews 4:15; Hebrews 10:25; Hebrews 12:3, 12, 13; and Hebrews 13:1–9, 13. What problems did the Christians have?`

Paul says that the Christians continued to have many troubles. People continued to say awful things in public about the Christians (Hebrews 13:13). Some Christians had not gotten out of prison (Hebrews 13:3). Their being in prison may have cost the church much money. So, the Christians were worn out from all their troubles (Hebrews 12:12, 13). Paul did not want them to “get discouraged” (Hebrews 12:3, ERV) and “lose hope” (Hebrews 12:3, NIrV).

Sometimes we have a hard time after we win big. When our success is over, we relax. So, we are not ready for the next time our enemies attack us. We do not have enough strength to fight back when we are hurt a second time.

`Read about Elijah in 1 Kings 19:1–4. What happens to Elijah in this story?`

“Elijah has the same experience many people have after they show a lot of faith and are a success. Elijah fears that the changes that started on Carmel may not continue. He becomes sad. God honored Elijah very much. This honor made Elijah feel as if he stood on top of the very high hill named Pisgah. Now Elijah feels as if he is down low in a valley. When the Holy Spirit led Elijah, Elijah stayed strong in faith. But now he feels discouraged. Jezebel swears she will kill Elijah. Satan works hard in the heart of this evil woman and her plans. Fear causes Elijah to let go of his faith in God. Elijah forgets God and runs. Elijah runs on and on until he comes alone to a desert.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 161, 162, adapted.

`Think about the times when you failed in your Christian life. What caused you to fail? If you can go back and do things over again, what changes will you make?`