---
title:  Stay Close To Each Other 
date:  29/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

What advice does Paul give to his readers about their problems? What can we learn from Paul to help us with our own problems? Before we look at this advice, let us first look at how God helps Elijah heal after he loses hope.

`Read 1 Kings 19:5–18. As we see from these verses, what does God do to help Elijah have faith again?`

1 Kings 19:5–18 shows us the tender care and wisdom of God. God takes care of His servants when they suffer. He helps them become strong in faith again. God does several things for Elijah: (1) God gives Elijah food and lets him rest. (2) Then, in the cave, God gently scolds Elijah by saying, “ ‘What are you doing here, Elijah?’ ” (1 Kings 19:9, NLV). (3) God also shows Elijah how He works. God shows his servant that He is not in the wind. God is not in the earthquake. God is not in the fire. God is only in a “gentle blowing” (1 Kings 19:12, NLV). The gentle wind shows us important Bible truth. We may not always see or feel God work, but we must believe God works for us and keeps His promises. (4) After this lesson, God gives Elijah work to do. God helps Elijah to trust Him about the future.

`What advice does Paul give his readers in Hebrews 2:1; Hebrews 3:12–14; Hebrews 5:11–6:3; and Hebrews 10:19–25?`

Several times in Hebrews Paul tells his readers things they must do to grow strong again in faith: (1) Take care of each other. (2) Share meals together. (3) Visit the Christians in prison and take care of their needs, too. (4) Share their things and give freely to everyone in need. If they do, God will not forget about you (Hebrews 13:1–6). Paul scolds his readers, then encourages them. (5) Paul warns them not to “be pulled away” from Bible truth (Hebrews 2:1, ERV). (6) He also warns them to “be careful that none of you has the evil thoughts that cause so much doubt that you stop following the living God” (Hebrews 3:12, ERV). (7) Paul also encourages his readers to go church meetings (Hebrews 10:25). So, in short, Paul says: (1) stay close to each other, (2) encourage each other, (3) show love, and (4) do good works. Then Paul tells his readers to remember that Jesus works for them in the temple in heaven (Hebrews 8:1, 2 Hebrews 12:1–4).