---
title:  In These Last Days 
date:  30/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 1:2; Hebrews 9:26–28; Hebrews 10:25, 36–38; and Hebrews 12:25–28. What is the message in these verses? What does Paul want us to understand about time?`

Paul wants his readers to understand a very important idea about time that makes his message more powerful. His readers live in the “last days” (Hebrews 1:2, ERV) when the promises God made to them will finally happen (Hebrews 10:36–38). So, Paul warns his readers to pay careful attention to his message. Paul often compares his readers to the Israelites in the desert who were about to enter the Promised Land. Paul wants his readers to remember, “ ‘Very soon now, the one who is coming will come and will not be late’ ” (Hebrews 10:37, ERV). Then Paul encourages his readers: “We are not the people who turn back and so are lost. But we are people who believe, and are saved” (Hebrews 10:39, WE). The people of God in the past often met many dangers just before God kept His promises to them. As modern Israel, we should remember this important lesson.

The book of Numbers talks about these dangers. Israel suffered important losses two times right before they entered the Promised Land. We may read about the first time in Numbers 13 and 14. These chapters tell us that several evil leaders “poison” the minds of the people with doubts. The doubts cause the people to lose faith. Then the people decide to choose a new leader to replace Moses and lead them back to Egypt. Just before the Israelites enter the Promised Land, they sin a second time. The Israelites fall into a trap of sex sins and false worship at Baal Peor (Numbers 24, 25). Satan leads the Israelites to sin and cause God to be angry with them.

Paul warns his readers against both dangers: sex sins and false worship. First, Paul tells his readers to hold on to their faith and look only at Jesus (Hebrews 4:14; Hebrews 10:23; Hebrews 12:1–4). Second, Paul warns his readers against sex sins and loving money (Hebrews 13:4–6). Finally, Paul tells his readers to obey their leaders (Hebrews 13:7, 17).