---
title:  Further Thought
date:  31/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

David A. deSilva explains why the Christians in New Testament times suffered public shame and insult: “Christians chose a lifestyle that was different from their old way of life. Their lifestyle caused other people to think that they did not want to be friends or meet them because they were not Christian. Most everyone thought Christians were against the government, too. People in New Testament times felt that they should be loyal to the gods and make offerings to them. When people did these things, they showed they were loyal to the government, their leaders, friends, and family. So, worship of the gods was a word picture. It showed that a person who did these things kept the community strong. That is why people did not trust the Christians and Jews who did not worship the gods. The Christians and Jews were seen as lawbreakers who were against the government of the kingdom of Rome.”—Perseverance in Gratitude (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans Publishing Company, 2000), page 12, adapted.

“God has medicine that will not fail to heal people who have lost hope. The medicine is faith, prayer, and work. Faith and serving God will help a person feel trust and joy. This trust and joy will grow stronger every day. Is your heart filled with worry or a hopeless feeling? When things look the worst, do not fear. Have faith in God. He knows the things you need. God has all power. His love never fails or ends. He never grows tired of showing you mercy. Do not fear that He will fail to keep His promise. God is everlasting Truth. He will never change the agreement He made with the people who love Him. He will give His loyal servants exactly what they need. Paul tells us what Jesus Christ told him: ‘ “I am all you need. I give you My loving-favor. My power works best in weak people.” I am happy to be weak and have troubles so I can have Christ’s power in me’ (2 Corinthians 12:9, 10 [NLV]).”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 164, 165, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`We have a Christian lifestyle that makes us different and often separates us from other people. How can we live this lifestyle without causing other people to think we do not care about them?`

`How is the experience of the Christians in Hebrews the same as the Laodicean church in Revelation 3:14–22? What can we learn from the experience of the Christians in Hebrews?`