---
title:  Helpful Habits for a Strong Prayer Life
date:   09/05/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
1 Kings 19:1–18; Matthew 7:7; Matthew 6:5–15; Daniel 9:4–19; Romans 8:26, 27.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “People, trust God all the time. Tell him all your problems. God is our protection” (Psalm 62:8, ICB).

How strong and healthy is your prayer life? How often do you pray? Do you pray every day? Do you pray with all your heart? Do you expect God to answer your prayers? Or only in emergencies? Are you always asking God for something? Or do you praise God in your prayers, too?

Also, do you pray in the morning before you eat? Do you pray in the middle of your busy day? Maybe you are part of a prayer group that meets every week. Or maybe you pray all the time. Do you believe that God is with you when you pray? How does meeting with God in prayer change everything in your life?

Prayer is the unchanging connection between us and Jesus. Jesus is the same as the Vine. We are the same as branches. “Do you want your spiritual life to grow? Then you must get sap and food from the Living Vine. When we separate from the Vine, we don’t have strength.”—Ellen G. White, Early Writings, page 73, adapted. God hears us when we pray. God may not always answer in the way we expect. But He always answers in His time and in His perfect way.

This week, we will continue to study more examples of people in the Bible who prayed. We will look at some of the useful habits from their prayer lives. How can these daily habits help make our own prayer lives grow strong?