---
title:  Waiting For Answers
date:   11/05/2026
---

`Did you pray for something for a long time and feel that God didn’t hear you? The Bible tells us to “go on asking God for what you need. Then God will give it to you” (Matthew 7:7, EASY). And “when we ask for anything that he wants us to have, he listens to us” (1 John 5:14, EASY). What do these promises mean to you?`

Hannah prayed for something she wanted (1 Samuel 1:10–17). At first, we may think that God didn’t hear Hannah. But Hannah continued to pray. God answered at the right time. Often as we wait for God’s answer, our faith grows strong. We learn to trust God more, too.

Psalm 62:8 says, “People, trust God all the time. Tell him all your problems. God is our protection” (ICB). We may not see our prayers answered right away. But do we continue to trust that God will answer at the right time?

Sometimes God may not answer our prayers as fast as we want. Or in the way that we expect or hope for. What advice does the Bible give us when we feel this way?

- **Seek God’s plan, and not your own** (Matthew 6:10; 1 John 5:14, 15).
- **Think about your reasons for asking God to answer your prayer** (Proverbs 16:2; James 4:3).
- **Are you holding on to any sin in your life** (Psalm 66:18; 1 Peter 3:12; Proverbs 15:29)?
- **Live in God and obey His Word, the Bible** (John 15:7).
- **Pray with faith** (Hebrews 11:6; James 1:6; Mark 11:24; Matthew 21:22).
- **Ask God to show you what may be getting in the way of His answering your prayer** (James 4:6; 1 Peter 5:6).
- **Continue to pray. Don’t give up!** (1 Thessalonians 5:17, 18).
- **Forgive other people** (Mark 11:25, 26).
- **Trust that God knows what’s best** (Romans 8:28; Ephesians 3:20; Jeremiah 29:11–13). Sometimes God’s answer is the same as His answer to Paul: “ ‘My grace [mercy] is all you need’ ” (2 Corinthians 12:9, ERV).

`What is your picture of God? If we think God doesn’t care about us, we may believe He doesn’t hear us. During these times, search the Bible for proof of God’s love for you. Pray that your picture of Him will become more loving.`