---
title:  Jesus Teaches Us How To Pray
date:   12/05/2026
---

In Jesus’ day, people prayed long prayers with big words. The people in Jesus’ day respected these prayers. But Jesus had nothing good to say about these prayers (read Matthew 6:5–8). Jesus said that people who prayed these prayers were showing off and pretending to be holy.

Jesus’ followers saw Him pray (read Luke 5:16; Luke 6:12; Luke 9:18; Luke 22:41; Luke 24:30; Mark 1:35; Mark 6:46). As the followers watched Jesus, they saw that His prayers were so very different from the prayers of the religious leaders. So, the followers came to Jesus and asked, “ ‘Lord, teach us how to pray’ ” (Luke 11:1, ERV).

Jesus showed His followers (and us) that we can pray in everyday language. He showed us that our prayers should be honest and come from our hearts.

Read Luke 11:2–4 and Matthew 6:5–15 (ICB). Notice the different parts of the prayer that Jesus taught us:

- **Our Father in heaven.** Honor your personal relationship with the Father who made everyone and everything.
- **We pray that your name will always be kept holy.** When we understand that God is holy, we will respect Him.
- **We pray that your kingdom will come.** We want God to come back. We pray for the Holy Spirit to fill us until Jesus comes again.
- **We pray that what you want will be done, here on earth as it [what you want] is [done] in heaven.** We give our lives to God. We do not pray just for the things we want. We trust that God knows what is best.
- **Give us the food we need for each day.** Ask God for what we need to live (food and water) and for what our hearts need (Jesus and His living Word, the Bible.)
- **Forgive the sins we have done, just as we have forgiven those who did wrong to us.** Confess our sins. Stop sinning. Ask for forgiveness. Remember to forgive the people who hurt us.
- **Do not cause us to be tested; but save us from the Evil One.** Ask God to protect us from Satan (Psalm 91).
- **The kingdom, the power, and the glory are yours forever. Amen.** Know that all we are, have, and do belongs to God. He is the only Person we should praise and honor (1 Chronicles 29:11).

`Take time right now to pray to God as Jesus taught us.`