---
title:  Other Questions About Prayer
date:   14/05/2026
---

**Do we need to pray if God already knows everything?** Ellen G. White answers this question: “We do not need to tell God what we are. We pray so that we may accept God into our hearts. Prayer doesn’t bring God down to us. Prayer brings us up to Him.”—Steps to Christ, page 93, ­adapted. Yes, God knows what we want and need. God knows everything we plan to do. So, why pray? Prayer invites us to stop and remember that God is in control. When we pray, we bow at Jesus’ feet. God can solve our problems when we invite Him to do so. The Holy Spirit helps us when we don’t know the right words to pray (Romans 8:26, 27).

**Why do we need to pray if everything is okay?** Pride can be one of the worst things that separates us from God. If we knew how much we need God, we’d come to Him much more! Perfect angels love and worship God. So, why should we sinners think that we need God less than His angels do? What do Matthew 5:6 and Isaiah 44:3 say about this idea?

**What is the connection of faith with prayer?** Read Hebrews 11:6 and then think about this quote: “Prayer and faith are closely connected. . . . Jesus says, ‘Whatever you ask for when you pray, have faith that you will receive [get] it. Then you will get it.’ Mark 11:24 [NLV]. Jesus helps us understand that we must ask for the things that God promises. Whatever we get, we must use it to honor God. When we follow these important rules, God will keep His promises to us. . . . We don’t need to look for proof of the blessing that God promised.”—Ellen G. White, Education, pages 257, 258, adapted.

**Should I pray with anyone?** First, you should pray in private (just God and you). Make time to look into your heart as you talk and listen to God (Matthew 6:6). Next, you also should pray with your family or in small groups (Acts 12:12). When two or three people meet together to pray, Jesus is with them (Matthew 18:20). Finally, you should pray with your church family (James 5:13–16).

**How do I listen?** Prayer is more than talking to God. We must allow Him to talk with us. The best way to do that is to read the Bible as you pray and spend time with God. Be careful. Don’t empty your mind or just listen to your own thoughts. Search the Bible. Fill your mind with its verses.

`Which one of the parts above do you need to work on the most?`