---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   15/05/2026
---

“We should think less about self. We should think more and talk more about Jesus. Then Jesus will fill our hearts and lives more. We will have much more of Him than we do now.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 102, adapted.

“Don’t talk about your doubts and fears. Don’t try to solve all your troubles and problems. You can’t see how they will be solved. Don’t wait for your troubles to be solved before you have faith. If you do, then your troubles will get worse. Come to God first. Come as you really are. You are helpless. You need Him. Empty your heart of all pride. With trust and faith, tell God what you need. God knows everything. He sees everything in heaven and on earth. God controls everything, too. God can help us. He hears our prayers. He will cause Bible truth to shine in our hearts, the same as light.”—Steps to Christ, pages 96, 97, adapted.

“You can come closer to God when you praise Him. The angels in heaven worship God with song and music. When we thank God for our blessings, we worship Him in the way that angels worship Him above. . . . So, let joy fill your heart as you come to the God who made you. ‘Give thanks and sing songs of praise’ to God. Isaiah 51:3 [ICB].”—Steps to Christ, page 104, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Which ideas in the quotes do you like the most? Which parts fill your heart with hope? Which ideas in the quotes above show you things about yourself that you need to change and improve?`

`Read the following verses about people in the Bible who prayed: Ezra 10:1; 2 Kings 13:4; Jonah 4:2, 3; Habakkuk 3:1; 2 Kings 19:14–19; Jeremiah 32:16–25; Nehemiah 1:4–11; and 1 Kings 8:22–54. What can we learn from their prayer lives?`

`How is prayer connected with fasting? Fasting is going for a short time without any food for religious reasons.`

`Is there any new idea that you learned this week that you want to add to your prayer life? Why not ask God right now to help you make that change?`