---
title:  The Separation Solution
date:  13/10/2018
---

**Introduction**: John 17

Satan had so successfully painted a picture of God that resembled his own attributes that humans worshiped Him as a vengeful dictator more than an omni-benevolent Lord. So Jesus shows up to fix that, and by His life and ministry He reveals the true character of God because of His intimacy with Him. This oneness between Father and Son is thematic throughout John 17, but Jesus goes further in His prayer, including His disciples in that unity, praying “that they may be one, as we are” (verse 11).

If we take a quick glance at society, it’s clear that any vertical rift between God and humankind is definitely mirrored or even rivaled by the horizontal rifts that we see every day among humanity. In fact, during the building of the Tower of Babel the sin of pride had literally almost made its way up into the heavens, so God divided humanity by languages. Sin causes separation from God and from our fellow humans through not only linguistic but cultural, ethnic, economic, and ideological boundaries! Our polarized world of varying opinions, origins, and perspectives is due to the fact of sin’s existence. Conservatives and liberals, Androids and iPhones, Red Sox and Yankees, and the list goes on!

When my Anglophone, Caucasian, iPhone-using, Republican friend is seen washing the feet of a Filipino, Android-using, Democrat, there is harmony, just like Jesus standing between humanity and God, each of them become a window into seeing individuals of their background in a more positive light. Thus they then become a window to the world: “By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another” (John 13:35). As people of the world view harmony where there is typically hate, charity where there is typically a challenge, it shows them that God’s love could actually transcend the pitfalls of human nature! This is evidenced in part after Jesus’ crucifixion, where God works for the removal of not only sin but also its effect: separation. The newly formed church soon after receives the gift of tongues, and believers can see that God’s ideal for restoration of unity is not just the vertical sense but the horizontal as well! And believe it or not, it’s happening again.

According to a survey conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2015, the Seventh-day Adventist Church is actually recorded as being not just the most ethnically diverse Christian denomination but, rather, the most racially diverse of all major religious groups in the United States! God is revealing once again and for the final time that He is uniting human beings with a bond that is infinitely stronger than what men use to divide.

---

_Nwamiko Madden, Lacombe, Alberta, Canada_