---
title:  What Must I Do to Have Oneness in Christ?
date:  15/10/2018
---

**Testimony**: Gal. 3:8, 9

“Listen to Jesus, follow His counsel and you will not go astray from the wise and mighty Counsellor, the only true Guide, the only One who can give you peace, happiness, and fullness of joy. . . . Whatever others may think of us or may do to us, it need not disturb this oneness with Christ, this fellowship of the Spirit. You know we cannot find rest anywhere out of Christ.”1

“The terms of this oneness between God and man in the great covenant of redemption were arranged with Christ from all eternity. The covenant of grace was revealed to the patriarchs. The covenant made with Abraham four hundred and thirty years before the law was spoken on Sinai was a covenant confirmed by God in Christ, the very same gospel which is preached to us.”2

“The great truths of the Word of God are so clearly stated that none need make a mistake in understanding them. When you as individual members of the church love God supremely and your neighbor as yourself, then there will be no labored efforts to be in unity; there will be a oneness in Christ, the ears to reports will be closed, and no one will take up a reproach against his neighbor. The members of the church will cherish love and unity and be as one great family.”3

“When Christ’s prayer is fully believed, when its instruction is brought into the daily life of God’s people, unity of action will be seen in our ranks. Brother will be bound to brother by the golden bonds of the love of Christ. The Spirit of God alone can bring about this oneness. He who sanctified Himself can sanctify His disciples. United with Him, they will be united with one another in the most holy faith. When we strive for this unity as God desires us to strive for it, it will come to us.”4

**React**

`1. If God has called us to be one with Him, what can help us learn to be at one with Christ?`

`2. What can happen if we learn to love God more than anything else and to love our neighbors as we love ourselves?`

`3. God longs to be one with us. With that in mind, what are some things that may disrupt the oneness with God in our own personal lives?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Sons and Daughters of God, p. 298 (ellipses in original).</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, “Christ Our Hope,” Signs of the Times, August 24, 1891.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, vol. 15, p. 150.</sup>

<sup>4. Ellen G. White, Counsels for the Church, p. 45.</sup>

_Levi Collins, Lenhartsville, Pennsylvania, USA_