---
title:  Say Your Last Prayer
date:  16/10/2018
---

**Evidence**: John 17

Though some English translations supply the word “prayer,” John records that Jesus simply lifted His eyes up to heaven and talked to His Father. It was a conversation He had. Sometimes Jesus knelt as He prayed (Luke 22:41), but more often Jesus preferred to look toward heaven as He prayed (John 11:41; Mark 7:34).

Jesus’ prayer was truly informal—He was speaking to His Father, not to some distant, brooding deity. “Father” was Jesus’ strikingly intimate way to address the God of the universe. “There is no evidence in pre-Christian Jewish literature that Jews addressed God as ‘Abba’ ” (“Father”). While God does refer to Himself as a father 15 times in the Old Testament, when you turn to the New Testament, God is addressed as “Father” more than 150 times in the Gospels alone!1

Jesus’ insistence on seeing God as His Father—and getting us to call Him that too—is a key part of John’s Gospel, in which the central focus is knowing Jesus (John 1:1–3). This theme is picked up in a big way in John 17, when Jesus declares that eternal life is all about knowing the Father and the Son (John 17:3). We are meant to have the same relationship with Jesus that He had with His Father.

Who did Jesus pray for on the eve of His crucible? Mainly, us. Jesus’ final prayer can be broken up into several subjects. First (John 17:1–5), Jesus prayed that He might glorify His Father. Second (verses 6–19), Jesus prayed for His disciples (those followers He was working with), that they might know the Father as He did. Third (verses 20–26), Jesus prayed for all future generations of Christians (those the disciples would work with). With the Cross blocking His way, Jesus looked up and beyond it. “Because of the joy awaiting him, he endured the cross, disregarding its shame” (Heb. 12:2, NLT). When He most needed it, He prayed for us.

And what was the key subject of Jesus’ prayer? Unity. Four times, Jesus prays that His followers may be as united with each other as He is with His Father. Drawing closer to Jesus will naturally mean we draw closer His other followers. God in Jesus has torn off the labels the world sticks on—race, sex, ethnicity, age, language—and created “in himself one new humanity” (Eph. 2:15, NIV). Jesus’ last prayer wasn’t a desperate plea for His own life; it was a bold vision for the new world waiting on the other side of the Cross.

---

<sup>1. Walter A. Elwell, Evangelical Dictionary of Theology, 1997, s.v. “Fatherhood of God.”</sup>

_Matthew J. Lucio, Mason City, Iowa, USA_