---
title:  Unity Among Christians
date:  17/10/2018
---

**How-to**: Mark 9:38–41; John 10:16

Jesus prayed for unity among Christians. Much like the unity of marriage (family), church unity is increasingly threatened. We use words such as church family or brother in Christ or sister in Christ, yet what do we do when, or if, the family-like unity is lacking? The Bible says that “brother will betray brother” (Mark 13:12, NIV). In Matthew 24:12, we are told that “the love of many will grow cold” (NKJV). So how do we keep unity in these times?

As in marriage, divorce from the faith must not be an option. We are brothers and sisters for eternity, we are united by something stronger than ourselves: the belief in Jesus as our Savior. So there are a few things we can do to pursue unity, despite the risk of brotherly love growing cold:

Be convicted. Study the Bible. If we don’t have a knowledge of Jesus or His Word, then we have no knowledge of what to unify around. We need the Word—daily. We need to realize that what unites us is stronger than what might divide us. The risk of confusion between unity and uniformity is too high. Spiritual maturity is knowing the difference between core values of our faith and peripheral beliefs.

Be connected. Satan has a billion ways to start fights in the church. He will often target one side in order to destroy the other. We have to stay alert, updated, connected to the Source of power. Your computer needs to stay connected to the internet in order for its antivirus program to get the updates needed to keep up with all the security threats—so do you. Prayer is your Wi-Fi.

Be committed. Spiritual battles—we win some, we lose some. We need to make a daily choice to follow Jesus and stay committed to Him. That’s a main part of long-term, healthy relationships. Have some spiritual grit and determination to stay the course! We must live our Christian lives with intention.

Unity can’t be taken for granted. It doesn’t “ just happen.” It is something we work hard at. That is why one of Jesus’ last prayers was for unity: that we may be one. If it was that important to Him, then we must make it our priority. Unity is difficult to obtain—but not impossible. Let us unite in being an answer to Jesus’ prayer.

**React**

`1. What else can you do to be Jesus’ answered prayer for unity?`

`2. How would you disciple or motivate your brothers and sisters in Christ to stay united?`

---

_Laura Marta Lucio, Mason City, Iowa, USA_