---
title:  Oneness for Won-ness
date:  18/10/2018
---

**Opinion**: John 17:20, 21, 26

“I like your Christ, but I do not like your Christians. Your Christians are so unlike your Christ.” Though largely attributed to Mahahtma Gandhi, there is some speculation as to the origin of this quote. But regardless of the quote’s source, these words carry great resonance with Jesus’ intercession for His disciples, oneness, and soul winning.

In John 17 part of Jesus’ prayer is for those who will believe in Him “through their word” (“their” in this verse referring to the disciples [John 17:6–19]). If we, then, as modern disciples of Jesus, are not living in the unity that Jesus prayed for us in the previous verses, we rob those who would believe in Him through our “word” of the chance to know Him and be brought into the unity of Christ.

In John 17:21 Jesus says to His Father that He wants believers to be one in Them so “the world may believe that You sent Me” (NKJV); believers’ oneness with Christ and the Father directly affects the world’s belief in Him. Then in verse 26 Jesus prays that He has declared God’s name to us, so that we will be filled with the love of the Father. The greatest injustice we as Christians have served the world is not heeding this declaration, thereby making us void of that love, restricting our ability to be effective witnesses.

These verses personally challenge me to live outside of myself and think of how my actions affect others. They cause me to recall the words written in Romans that challenge us not to live in such a way that we would cause anyone to “stumble” (Rom. 14:21, RSV). Despite the controversy that sometimes surrounds Paul’s meaning here, the real questions we should ask ourselves are “Does the thing I’m about to do reflect my oneness with Christ, and will the Father’s love be made manifest through me?”

If we can make it our individual missions to be at one with Jesus and the Father, heaven will have to make room for even more of God’s children to come home, and there will be no room for anyone on earth to even think that we Christians are so unlike our Christ.

**React**

`1. Has anything that you have ever said or done affected someone’s coming to Jesus, inside or outside of the church?`

`2. When was the last time your union with Christ was reflected in your actions?`

`3. How does your personal unity with Christ affect your church’s unity with Christ and its ability to minister to nonbelievers?`

---

_Destinie Candis, Plant City, Florida, USA_