---
title:  That the World May Believe
date:  19/10/2018
---

**Exploration**: John 17:21

**Conclude**

Christ’s prayer in John 17:21 highlights a critical point in understanding the importance of unity and oneness. He says, “That they also may be one in Us; that the world may believe that You sent Me” (NKJV). Our oneness with God is a testimony that the Father truly sent Jesus to Earth! Our oneness with Him and our unity with one another show the world that Christ is exactly who He claimed to be. The closer we are to Christ individually, the more effective our collective efforts to spread the gospel will be.

**Consider**

- Writing a personal reflection on your current role in your local church and what you can do to make your church a more intimate community.
- Organizing a regular meeting for group meals or a time for “breaking bread” with fellow believers, new visitors, and friends in your congregation. Try organizing a day during the week, or consider using Sabbath afternoons for weekly potlucks at your church or in a more intimate setting.
- Spending your morning or evening devotion time in nature. Focus on the patterns of unity and oneness you see in the plants and animals around you.
- Recording an audio diary of your prayers and requests to God. Review them every three to six months to highlight how the Lord has led you.
- Drawing, painting, or sketching a picture that you think best symbolizes the concept of unity or oneness. Transfer your picture onto “Welcome” or “We Miss You” cards and send them to visitors attending your church or to members who have been absent from the congregation.


**Connect**

Genesis 1:26–28; 11:1–9; Amos 3:3; Acts 1:13, 14; 2:41–47; 4:32–37.

Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, chapter 10, “The Tower of Babel”; My Life Today, “Reverence for God,” p. 281; The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 2, “The Training of the Twelve.”

---

_Michelle Odinma, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_