---
title:  Isaiah’s Testing Truth 
date:  28/02/2021
---

If Isaiah intended to convey only information, he would lay out all the details regarding the Messiah at once. But in order to teach, persuade, and give his audience an encounter with the Servant of the Lord, he develops a rich fabric of recurring themes in symphonic fashion. He unfolds God’s message in steps so that each aspect can be grasped in relation to the rest of the picture. Isaiah is an artist whose canvas is the soul of his listener.

`Read Isaiah 50:4–10. Summarize what these verses are saying. How do you see Jesus in this passage?`

We found in Isaiah 49:7 that God’s servant is despised, abhorred, and “the slave of rulers” (NRSV) but that “ ‘Kings shall see and stand up, princes, and they shall prostrate themselves’ ” (NRSV). Here in Isaiah 50, we learn that the valley is deeper for the gentle teacher whose words sustain the weary (Isa. 50:4). The path to vindication leads through physical abuse (Isa. 50:6).

This abuse sounds bad to those of us in modern Western cultures. But in an ancient Near Eastern culture, honor was a life and death matter for a person and his/her group. If you insulted and mistreated someone like this, you’d better be well protected; if they got half a chance, the victim and/or his clan would surely retaliate.

King David attacked and conquered the country of Ammon (2 Samuel 10:1–12) because its king had merely “seized David’s envoys, shaved off half the beard of each, cut off their garments in the middle at their hips, and sent them away” (2 Sam. 10:4, NRSV). But in Isaiah 50 people strike the servant, painfully pluck out hairs from his beard, and spit at him. What makes these actions an international, intercosmic incident is that the victim is the envoy of the divine King of kings. In fact, by comparing Isaiah 9:6, 7 and Isaiah 11:1–16 with other “servant” passages, we found that the servant is the King, the mighty Deliverer! But with all this power and honor, for some unthinkable reason, He does not save Himself! This is so strange that people didn’t believe it. At Jesus’ cross, leaders mocked him:

“ ‘He saved others; let him save himself if he is the Messiah of God, his chosen one!’ ”(Luke 23:35, NRSV);

“ ‘Let him come down from the cross now, and we will believe in him’ ” (Matt. 27:42, NRSV).

`Read through Isaiah 50:4–10. Write down the spiritual principles depicted here that should be applied to our own lives. Look at yourself in light of the list you make. In what areas could you do better? If discouraged, then read on for the rest of the week.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“The Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister.” Matthew 20:28. Not for Himself, but for others, He lived and thought and prayed. From hours spent with God He came forth morning by morning, to bring the light of heaven to men. Daily He received a fresh baptism of the Holy Spirit. In the early hours of the new day the Lord awakened Him from His slumbers, and His soul and His lips were anointed with grace, that He might impart to others. His words were given Him fresh from the heavenly courts, words that He might speak in season to the weary and oppressed. “The Lord God hath given Me,” He said, “the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him that is weary: He wakeneth morning by morning, He wakeneth Mine ear to hear as the learned.” Isaiah 50:4.—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 139.

It was to bring the bread of life to His enemies that our Saviour left His home in heaven. Though calumny and persecution were heaped upon Him from the cradle to the grave, they called forth from Him only the expression of forgiving love. Through the prophet Isaiah He says, “I gave My back to the smiters, and My cheeks to them that plucked off the hair: I hid not My face from shame and spitting.” Isaiah 50:6. . . .

. . . The blow that is aimed at him falls upon the Saviour, who surrounds him with His presence. Whatever comes to him comes from Christ. He has no need to resist evil, for Christ is his defense. Nothing can touch him except by our Lord’s permission, and “all things” that are permitted “work together for good to them that love God.” Romans 8:28.—_Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, p. 71.

“He saved others; himself he cannot save” (Mark 15:31). It is because Christ would not save Himself that the sinner has any hope of pardon or favor with God. If, in His undertaking to save the sinner, Christ had failed or become discouraged, the last hope of every son and daughter of Adam would have been at an end. The entire life of Christ was one of self-denial and self-sacrifice. . . .

Oh, what soul hunger and longing had Christ to save that which was lost! The body crucified upon the cross did not detract from His divinity, His power of God to save through the human sacrifice, all who would accept His righteousness. In dying upon the cross, He transferred the guilt from the person of the transgressor to that of the divine Substitute through faith in Him as his personal Redeemer.—_This Day With God_, p. 236.