---
title:  The Unreachable Is Us! 
date:  03/03/2021
---

Like a vulnerable plant, apparently of no special value, and despised (Isa. 53:2, 3)—that’s the depiction we are given here of the Suffering Servant. Isaiah has quickly brought us through innocent youth to the brink of the abyss. Even with the background provided earlier, we are not prepared in the sense that we are resigned to the Servant’s fate. To the contrary! Isaiah has taught us to cherish the Child born to us, the supreme Prince of Peace. Others despise Him, but we know who He really is.

As someone has said: “We have met the enemy and they are us.” The servant is not the first to be despised, rejected, or a man of suffering. King David was all of those when he fled from his son Absalom (2 Sam. 15:30). But the suffering borne by this Servant is not His own and does not result from His own sin. Nor does He bear it merely for another individual; “the LORD has laid on him the iniquity of us all” (Isa. 53:6, NRSV).

The answer to the question “Why?” is Isaiah’s testing truth: Because of God’s love, His Messiah would choose to suffer. But why? Isaiah drives the “golden spike” to complete the unthinkable truth: He would choose to suffer in order to reach the unreachable, and the unreachable is us!

Those who do not understand regard the Servant as “struck down by God” (Isa. 53:4, NRSV). Just as Job’s friends thought his sin must have caused his suffering, and just as Jesus’ disciples asked Him “ ‘who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?’ ” (John 9:2, NRSV), those who saw Jesus on the cross assumed the worst. Didn’t Moses say that “anyone hung on a tree is under God’s curse” (Deut. 21:23, NRSV; compare Num. 25:4)?

Yet, all this was God’s will (Isa. 53:10). Why? Because “Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us” (Gal. 3:13, NRSV). Because God “made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God” (2 Cor. 5:21).

“What a price has been paid for us! Behold the cross, and the Victim uplifted upon it. Look at those hands, pierced with the cruel nails. Look at His feet, fastened with spikes to the tree. Christ bore our sins in His own body. That suffering, that agony, is the price of your redemption.”—Ellen G. White, God’s Amazing Grace, p. 172.

`The weight, the guilt, the punishment for the sins of the whole world—every sin, by every sinner—fell upon Christ at the Cross, at once, as the only means to save us! What does this tell us about how bad sin is, that such a price had to be paid in order to redeem us from it? What does it tell us about God’s love that He would do this for us, even at such a great cost?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

A short time before, Jesus had stood like a mighty cedar, withstanding the storm of opposition that spent its fury upon Him. Stubborn wills, and hearts filled with malice and subtlety, had striven in vain to confuse and overpower Him. He stood forth in divine majesty as the Son of God. Now He was like a reed beaten and bent by the angry storm. He had approached the consummation of His work a conqueror, having at each step gained the victory over the powers of darkness. As one already glorified, He had claimed oneness with God. In unfaltering accents He had poured out His songs of praise. He had spoken to His disciples in words of courage and tenderness. Now had come the hour of the power of darkness. Now His voice was heard on the still evening air, not in tones of triumph, but full of human anguish. . . . “O My Father, if this cup may not pass away from Me, except I drink it, Thy will be done.”—_The Desire of Ages_, pp. 689, 690.

The heart of God yearns over His earthly children with a love stronger than death. In giving up His Son, He has poured out to us all heaven in one gift. The Saviour’s life and death and intercession, the ministry of angels, the pleading of the Spirit, the Father working above and through all, the unceasing interest of heavenly beings,—all are enlisted in behalf of man’s redemption.

Oh, let us contemplate the amazing sacrifice that has been made for us! Let us try to appreciate the labor and energy that Heaven is expending to reclaim the lost, and bring them back to the Father’s house. Motives stronger, and agencies more powerful, could never be brought into operation; the exceeding rewards for right-doing, the enjoyment of heaven, the society of the angels, the communion and love of God and His Son, the elevation and extension of all our powers throughout eternal ages—are these not mighty incentives and encouragements to urge us to give the heart’s loving service to our Creator and Redeemer?—_Steps to Christ_, p. 21.

Christ might, because of our guilt, have moved far from us. But instead of moving farther away from us, He came and dwelt among us, filled with all the fullness of the Godhead, to be one with us, that through His grace we might attain to perfection. By a death of shame and suffering He paid man’s ransom. What self-sacrificing love is this! From the highest excellency He came, His divinity clothed with humanity, descending step by step to the very depths of humiliation. No line can measure the depth of this love. Christ has shown us how much God can love and our Redeemer suffer in order to secure our complete restoration. He desires His children to reveal His character, to exert His influence, that other minds may be drawn into harmony with His mind.—_The Upward Look_, p. 191.