---
title:  A Transforming Reparation Offering 
date:  04/03/2021
---

`What does it mean that the Servant’s life is “an offering for sin” (Isa. 53:10, NRSV)?`

The Hebrew word refers to a “guilt/reparation offering” (Lev. 5:14–6:7, Lev. 7:1–7), which could atone for deliberate wrongs against other people (Lev. 6:2, 3). Such sins were singled out by Isaiah (Isaiah 1–3; Isa. 10:1, 2; Isaiah 58). Also, the sinner must restore to the wronged person that which was taken, plus a penalty, before offering the sacrifice to receive forgiveness from God (Lev. 6:4–7; compare Matt. 5:23, 24). In a case of inadvertent misuse of something that belongs to God, the reparation goes to Him (Lev. 5:16).

Now we can understand Isaiah 40:2, where God comforts His exiled people by telling them they have paid enough reparation for their sins.

But following the reparation, there must be a sacrifice. Here it is in Isaiah 53: God’s Servant, instead of a ram, is led like a sheep to the slaughter (Isa. 53:7) on behalf of people who have gone astray (Isa. 53:6).

Although “cut off from the land of the living” (Isa. 53:8, NRSV; compare Dan. 9:26), completely consumed in the sacrifice that kindles the flame of hope for us, the Servant comes forth from death, the land of no return, to receive exaltation, see His “offspring,” and prolong His days (Isa. 53:10–12).

**Look up each of the following verses. How does each one reflect the same basic message as Isaiah 53?**

`Ps. 32:1, 2`

`Rom. 5:8`

`Gal. 2:16`

`Phil. 3:9`

`Heb. 2:9`

`1 Pet. 2:24`

`If someone were to ask you to summarize in a single paragraph the good news of Isaiah 52:13–53:12, what would you write?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ, our Saviour, in whom dwelt absolute perfection, became sin for the fallen race. He did not know sin by the experience of sinning, but He bore the terrible weight of the guilt of the whole world. He became our propitiation, that all who receive Him may become sons of God. The cross was erected to save man. Christ lifted on the cross was the means devised in heaven for awakening in the repenting soul a sense of the sinfulness of sin. By the cross Christ sought to draw all to Himself. He died as the only hope of saving those who, because of sin, were in the gall of bitterness. Through the agency of the Holy Spirit, a new principle of mental and spiritual power was to be brought to man, who, through association with divinity, was to become one with God.

To break down the barriers that Satan had erected between God and man, Christ made a full and complete sacrifice, revealing unexampled self-denial. He revealed to the world the amazing spectacle of God living in human flesh, and sacrificing Himself to save fallen man. What wonderful love!—_The Upward Look_, p. 191.

In all this conflict with the power of evil there was ever before Christ the darkened shadow into which He Himself must enter. Ever before Him was the means by which He must pay the ransom for these souls. . . . When He raised Lazarus from the dead He knew that for that life He must pay the ransom on the cross of Calvary. Every rescue made was to cause Him the deepest humiliation. He was to taste death for every man. . . . Of the suffering multitudes brought to Christ it is said, “He healed them all” (Matthew 12:15). Thus He expressed His love for the children of men. His miracles were part of His mission. . . . He knows how to speak the word “Be whole,” and when He has healed the sufferer He says, “Go and sin no more.”—_That I Might Know Him_, p. 48.

Upon Christ as our substitute and surety was laid the iniquity of us all. He was counted a transgressor, that He might redeem us from the condemnation of the law. The guilt of every descendant of Adam was pressing upon His heart. The wrath of God against sin, the terrible manifestation of His displeasure because of iniquity, filled the soul of His Son with consternation. All His life Christ had been publishing to a fallen world the good news of the Father’s mercy and pardoning love. Salvation for the chief of sinners was His theme. But now with the terrible weight of guilt He bears, He cannot see the Father’s reconciling face. The withdrawal of the divine countenance from the Saviour in this hour of supreme anguish pierced His heart with a sorrow that can never be fully understood by man. So great was this agony that His physical pain was hardly felt.

Satan with his fierce temptations wrung the heart of Jesus. The Saviour could not see through the portals of the tomb. Hope did not present to Him His coming forth from the grave a conqueror, or tell Him of the Father’s acceptance of the sacrifice. He feared that sin was so offensive to God that Their separation was to be eternal. Christ felt the anguish which the sinner will feel when mercy shall no longer plead for the guilty race. It was the sense of sin, bringing the Father’s wrath upon Him as man’s substitute, that made the cup He drank so bitter, and broke the heart of the Son of God.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 753