---
title:  A People Chosen To Serve 
date:  21/02/2021
---

`In Isaiah 41:8, ERV, God says, “ ‘You, Israel, are my servant.’ ” Then in Isaiah 42:1, ERV, God introduces the One who is “ ‘my servant.’ ” Who is this servant?`

Is this servant Jacob, who was the father of the people of Israel? Or is this servant Israel itself? Or is this servant the Chosen One of God, who is known as Jesus in the New Testament?

Isaiah talks about two different servants in chapters 41–53. One servant is named “Israel” or “Jacob.” (Read Isaiah 41:8; Isaiah 44:1, 2, 21; Isaiah 45:4; and Isaiah 48:20.) These verses show us that Jacob is a word picture for all the people of Israel. God also makes His “servant Jacob” (Isaiah 48:20, ERV) free from Babylon. So, these verses also show us that Jacob is another name for the people of Israel.

Now let us look at some other examples in Isaiah. Read Isaiah 42:1; Isaiah 50:10; Isaiah 52:13; and Isaiah 53:11. In these verses, the servant of God is not named. Isaiah first talks about the servant in Isaiah 42:1. At first, we do not know who Isaiah is talking about. Isaiah tells us a little bit more about this servant in later verses. Then we can see that this servant is a special person. He brings Jacob (the people of Israel) back to God (Isaiah 49:5, 6). The servant also dies as an offering for sinners (Isaiah 52:13–53:12; read also Isaiah 49:5, 6). So, this servant cannot be the same as the people of Israel. One servant shows us the people of God. The other servant is a person.

`Why does God choose Israel? What does He want them to do? For the answer, read Isaiah 41:8–20.`

God tells Israel that they will continue to be His people. They are His servant. God says, “ ‘I chose you, and I have not rejected [turned against] you’ ” (Isaiah 41:9, ERV). Then God gives Israel one of the most beautiful and encouraging promises in the whole Bible. He say, “ ‘So, don’t worry, because I am with you. Don’t be afraid, because I am your God. I will make you strong and will help you. I will support you with my right hand that saves you’ ” (Isaiah 41:10, ICB). Israel must show that they trust God to save them. King Ahaz did not trust the Lord. Israel must not trust in other gods and their statues as other people do (Isaiah 41:7, 21–24, 28, 29).