---
title:  The Servant With No Name 
date:  22/02/2021
---

`Read about God’s special servant in Isaiah 42:1–7. God pours His Spirit on this person to do important work. What work does God give this servant to do? Choose the best answer from the list below:`

1. The special servant will show people right from wrong.

2. The special servant will work with a gentle spirit. But He will be a success.

3. He is a teacher.

4. He serves as a living agreement between God and His people.

5. He gives hope to people by healing the blind and making prisoners free.

6. He is all of the above.

`Does this servant do the same work done by the person who is shown by the “stump [part left in the ground after the tree is cut down] . . . of Jesse” in Isaiah 11:1, ICB? If yes, how is the work they do the same?`

The king in Isaiah 11 does what God asks Him to do. He shows the people right from wrong. He makes the prisoners free. He teaches the people wisdom. He shows them who God is. We learned that this “stump” of Jesse is the Chosen One or Savior. He is the same as the holy child in Isaiah 9:6, 7. This child brings peace for the kingdom of David. He also shows the people right from wrong (Isaiah 9:7). Of course, the servant in Isaiah 42 is the Savior.

`How does the New Testament show us the servant in Isaiah 42:1–7? For the answer, read Matthew 12:15–21.`

Part of Isaiah 42 is written in Matthew 12. Matthew shows that the verses from Isaiah are about Jesus, the Son of God (Isaiah 42:1; Matthew 3:16, 17; Matthew 17:5). The work of Jesus helps to bring Israel back to God again (Isaiah 42:6; Daniel 9:27).

What did Jesus and His followers do for people? They made them free from suffering and evil spirits (Luke 10:19). Then Jesus died to make the agreement between God and His people sure (Matthew 26:28). Jesus beats Satan at the cross. Satan stole control of this earth from Adam (read John 12:31–33). But Jesus won that control back.