---
title:  The Persian Savior 
date:  23/02/2021
---

`What surprising message about the future do we read about in Isaiah 44:26–45:6?`

Isaiah worked for God from 745 B.C. to about 685 B.C. One of the special messages God gave Isaiah about the future was about a Persian king. First, Isaiah says that a mighty leader will come from the east and from the north (Isaiah 41:2, 3, 25). Next, Isaiah shows that this is good news for Jerusalem (Isaiah 41:27). Then Isaiah tells us that the name of this Persian King is Cyrus. Isaiah also tells us the different things that Cyrus will do. Isaiah is correct. Cyrus came from the north and east of Babylon. Cyrus beat Babylon in 539 B.C. Cyrus served God by making the Jews free from Babylon. Cyrus also gave the Jews permission to start building again the temple in Jerusalem (read Ezra 1). 146 years pass after Isaiah dies and before Cyrus captures Babylon. So, this shows that this message about Cyrus happens almost 150 years ahead of its time!

Many history writers show that the special message about Cyrus is true. Babylonian records from the time of Cyrus give proof. So does a report made by Cyrus himself and other Bible writers too (2 Chronicles 36:22, 23; Ezra 1; Daniel 5; Daniel 6:28; Daniel 10:1). We cannot doubt that God gave Isaiah this special message. The message helps make our faith strong in the Bible. The message shows that God knows the future before it happens.

`Why does God name Cyrus “his chosen king” (Isaiah 45:1, ERV)?`

Do you see the Hebrew word written as “chosen”? We get the word for Messiah or Savior from this same word. Cyrus is a future king. He is sent by God to make His people free. But Cyrus is a special messiah or savior. Why? Because he is not a Jew. He will do some things that the Savior will do. Cyrus will beat the enemies of God. He will make the people of God in Babylon free again. But Cyrus is not the same as the coming Savior. Cyrus does not come from the line of David.

The special message about Cyrus shows us that only God knows the future (Isaiah 41:4, 21–23, 26–28; Isaiah 44:26). God also invites Cyrus to know Him personally. God knows the name of Cyrus before he is born (Isaiah 45:3).