---
title:  Hope For The Future 
date:  24/02/2021
---

Isaiah shows that God knows the future before it happens. Isaiah names Cyrus 150 years before Cyrus is born. This special message upsets some people because they do not want to believe that God gives messages to His people. So, they believe that another man named Isaiah lived during the time of Cyrus. The “second Isaiah” wrote down Isaiah 40–66.

This idea is false. There is no second “Isaiah.” If he lived, why did the Bible not bother to tell us about him? So, we do not see any proof in the Bible that a new writer wrote the rest of Isaiah after chapter 39.

The message of Isaiah is the same in his whole book: trust in God. Believe in the Savior that God will send. Do not trust in other things. Yes, Bible experts are correct when they say chapters 1–39 talk about Assyria. Chapters 40 until the end of the book talk about the time that the people of God will be prisoners in Babylon. We saw that Isaiah 13–14 and chapter 39 already show that the people of God will be taken to Babylon. Isaiah 1–39 show the punishments of God. Isaiah 40–66 show the comfort God gives His people. But in the chapters before this, God also comforts His people. And in the later chapters of the book, we also read about God’s future punishments against Judah for turning away from Him (Isaiah 42:18–25; Isaiah 43:22–28; and Isaiah 48:1–11).

`Israel suffered awful things because of their sins. But some of the people did not give up hope. They believed the promises of God. Some of these promises are found in Leviticus 26:40–45. Read these verses carefully. Let us say you were alive during the time that Babylon beat Judah. How will these verses give you hope?`

`What important rule do you see in Leviticus 26:40–45? What is the Lord saying to Israel there? How does the same rule work in our own lives?       	`