---
title:  A Suffering Servant Who Feels Our Pain 
date:  25/02/2021
---

`Who is the servant of God in Isaiah 49:1–12?`

God chooses this servant and names him before this person is born. God makes the mouth of His servant the same as a sword. How? He says words that “cut” lies apart. This servant will give God glory. God will use the servant to bring His people back to Himself. Then Israel will be the same as a light. They will show the plan of God to save everyone on earth. The servant will also make prisoners free. As we can see, this servant does many of the same things that the servant does in Isaiah 42. In Isaiah 42, we learn that the servant is the Chosen One or Savior. The New Testament says that this Savior is Jesus Christ.

`Is this servant the same person as the Chosen One or Savior of the New Testament? If yes, why does God name Him “Israel” (Isaiah 49:3)?`

Earlier we saw that in this part of Isaiah, the servant of God shows us the people of God or Israel. But in Isaiah 49:3, the name “Israel” shows us a person. This servant of God brings the people of God back to Him (Isaiah 49:5). The servant is a word picture for the plan of God for His people. Sadly, the people of God have failed to follow the plan of God to teach other people about Him.

`What new information does Isaiah 49:4, 7 give us?`

We learn that the work that God gives His servant will not be easy. He feels sad. He feels that he “ ‘worked hard for nothing. I have used all my power, but I did nothing useful’ ” (Isaiah 49:4, ICB). We see this same idea in Daniel 9:26, ERV: “ ‘the chosen one will be killed. He will be gone.” But his heart is filled with faith: “ ‘But the Lord will decide what my work is worth. God will decide my reward’ ” (Isaiah 49:4, ICB). J. Alec Motyer says: “Isaiah saw a Servant who was a real person. He had a real human heart. He was tested the same as we are tested. He showed Himself to be the one who made the way of faith possible. He had a real, personal faith. He shows us how to keep having faith when all hope fails.”—The Prophecy of Isaiah: An Introduction and Commentary (Downers Grove, Illinois: InterVarsity Press, 1939), page 387, adapted.