---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/02/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “At Capernaum,” The Desire of Ages, pages 252–261.

“When we work to save people, we need wisdom and skill. Jesus never shut His mouth when people needed to hear Bible truth. But Jesus said every word with love. He was always kind to people He worked with and served. Jesus was not mean or nasty to anyone. He did not say anything to cause anyone pain unless He had a good reason. He did not put people down because they were weak. He was not afraid to show people that sin was wrong. Jesus showed people that it was wrong to say you believe in God and not obey Him. He said it was wrong to have no faith. But Jesus had tears in His voice when He scolded people. He did not share Bible truth in a mean way. Jesus always showed a deep love for humans. Every person was precious in His eyes. He behaved the same as a royal king. At the same time, He was kind and loving to every member of the family of God. Jesus saw each person as someone He needed to save.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers, page 117, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In class, read the paragraph from Ellen G. White. What important rules does it teach you about how Jesus worked with other people? How can your church practice these rules?`

`Do you know someone who is the same as a “ ‘crushed [broken] blade of grass’ ” or “ ‘a weak flame’ ” (Isaiah 42:3, ICB)? How can you help a person without “crushing [breaking]” him or her? How can you help them know the Lord? What can you tell them to do to get healing and help?`

`Some people believe that two different people wrote the book of Isaiah. Where does this idea come from? It comes from hearts filled with doubt. These hearts cannot accept that God showed Isaiah the future. What is wrong with this thinking? Why must we, as Christians, turn away fully from it?`

**Summary**: The people of God are not free. They need someone to make them free. The people of God will be made free by two Saviors: first, Cyrus and, then later, a Servant. The servant has no name. Isaiah shows us that God chose this Servant to save people from sin. This Servant will show people right from wrong. He also will make things right. He will bring the people of God back to Him.