---
title:  Saved by Faith Alone
date:   15/07/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Galatians 2:15–21; Ephesians 2:12; Philippians 3:9; Romans 3:10–20.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “I have been crucified [put to death] with Christ. I [do not] live any longer, but Christ lives in me. Now I live my life in my body by faith in the Son of God. He loved me and gave himself for me” (Galatians 2:20, NIrV).

Last week we read about how Paul stood up to Peter in Antioch. Paul scolded Peter for saying one thing but doing another. Peter chose to stop eating with Gentile Christians. Gentile Christians are non-Jewish believers. Peter’s choice sent a negative message to the Gentile Christians. His actions told them they were not as important as Jewish Christians. And what he did made it seem that Gentile believers must first be circumcised. To be circumcised means that the skin at the end of the sex organ of a man or a boy is cut off. Then Gentile males would be accepted into the family of God. But Paul made it clear to Peter that such ideas were wrong.

What were the actual words Paul said to Peter? This week, we will look at what probably happened. The verses in Paul’s letter about this topic pack a lot of information into just a small number of words. These new verses also are very important because they mention several words and groups of words for the first time. These new words also help us to understand the gospel and the rest of Paul’s letter to the Galatians. Some of these words include: works of law, belief, faith, and the faith of Jesus.

What does Paul mean by these words? And what do they teach us about the plan of salvation?
