---
title:  The question of how we are saved
date:   16/07/2017
---

_Galatians 2:15–17_

`In Galatians 2:15, Paul writes, “We are Jews by birth. We are not sinful Gentiles” (NIrV). What does he mean?`

The meaning of this verse can be found if you study the verses that surround it. Keep in mind that Paul wants to win over his fellow Jewish Christians to his way of thinking. So, he starts with a point they all can agree on. And that point is the separation that has been in place for many hundreds of years between Jews and Gentiles. Jews were God’s chosen people. God gave them His law. And the Jews enjoyed the blessings that came from being in a special relationship with God. But Gentiles were outside the promises of God’s covenant (Ephesians 2:12; Romans 2:14). The covenant is God’s special relationship with His people. It means His people will serve Him and obey His law, and God will bless them. Now, it is true that Gentiles were sinners. But in verse 16, Paul warns Jewish Christians that being Jewish does not make them more accepted in God’s eyes. Why? Because no one is made right with God by obeying the law.

`Paul uses the wording “made right with God” (NIrV) four times in Galatians 2:16, 17. Another way of saying “made right with God” is “justified.” What does Paul mean when he uses the wording “made right with God”? Also read Exodus 23:7 and Deuteronomy 25:1.`

The verb “to justify,” or the phrase “to be made right” with God, describes an important idea for Paul. The noun form of the word “to justify” is the word “justification.” Justification means the act of being forgiven and being made right with God. Justification is a word used in courts of law. It has to do with clearing a person of all guilt. Justification is the opposite of saying someone is guilty. A person who is “justified” is someone who also is made holy.

For Jewish believers, justification centered on their relationship with God and His covenant. For them, to be “justified” meant that a person was a faithful member of the family of Abraham.

`Read Galatians 2:15–17. What is Paul saying to you here? And how can you live out the truth of these words in your own Christian experience?`