---
title:  Obeying the law
date:   17/07/2017
---

_Galatians 2:16, 17_

`Three times in Galatians 2:16 Paul says we are not made right with God by “obeying the law” (NIrV). Read Galatians 2:16, 17; Galatians 3:2, 5, 10; and Romans 3:20, 28. How do these verses help explain Paul’s meaning?`

To understand what Paul means by “obeying the law,” we first need to understand what he means by “law.” The word “law” comes from the Greek word nomos. It is found 121 times in Paul’s letters. It can mean many things. For example, “law” can mean God’s plan for His people. Or it can mean the first five books of Moses or all the Old Testament. It can even mean a rule. Paul uses the word “law” to mean all God’s commandments given to His people through Moses.

The wording “obeying the law” likely includes all that God commanded His people to do through Moses. We can try as hard as we can to obey the law. But Paul’s point is that our obedience will never be good enough to save us. It never will be good enough to make us right with God.

In other Bible versions, the wording “obeying the law” is translated as “works of the law” (NET; NASB). The wording “works of the law” does not appear in the Old Testament. And in the New, the wording is found only in Paul’s writings. But the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls, in 1947, helps to show what Paul means. The Dead Sea Scrolls were a collection of writings copied by a group of Jews called Essenes. The Essenes lived at the time of Jesus. One of the Hebrew scrolls contained the wording “obeying the law.” The title of the scroll is Miqsat Ma’as Ha-Torah. This title can be translated as “Important Works of the Law.” The scroll discusses many important topics that deal with the law. For example, it talks about how to prevent holy things from becoming unclean. And it talks about how Jews were to be separate from Gentiles. At the end, the Essene writer of the scroll says that following these “works of the law” will make a person right with God. This writer and Paul do not agree. The Essene writer insists that holiness comes from obeying the law. But Paul says it comes through faith.

`How well do you obey God’s law? Do you feel you follow it so well that your obedience makes you right with God? (Read Romans 3:10–20.) If not, why not? And how does your answer help you understand Paul’s point that works do not save us?`