---
title:  The only foundation for being saved
date:   18/07/2017
---

_Philippians 3:9_

We should not think Jewish Christians felt that faith in Christ was not important. After all, they believed in Jesus. They had faith in Him. But their behavior showed that they felt faith was not enough to make a person right with God. They thought faith needed obedience. So, they insisted that being made right with God came from both faith and works. Paul was very much against this way of thinking. Faith, and faith alone, makes us right with God.

For Paul, faith is not just an idea. Instead, it is being connected to Jesus. The wording that is translated as “faith in Christ” in Galatians 2:16 really cannot be put into words. It is so rich with meaning. In Greek, “faith in Christ” means “the faith,” or “the faithfulness,” of Jesus. These translations show the powerful difference between the works of the law that we do and the work Christ did for us.

It is important to remember that faith itself does not add to whether we are made right with God at all. Instead, faith is how we take hold of Christ and His work in our behalf. We are not justified or made right with God based on our faith. We are made right with God because of Christ’s faithfulness for us. We lay hold of His faithfulness for us through faith.

Christ did what every person has failed to do. He alone was faithful to God in everything He did. So, our hope is in Christ’s faithfulness, not in our own. This great truth helped spark the Protestant Reformation. This religious movement started in the 16th century with Martin Luther. Its purpose was to return to a Christianity based on the Bible. The truth of being justified by faith is as important to us today as it was to Martin Luther all those years ago.

An early translation of Galatians 2:16 in the Syriac language helps us see Paul’s meaning: “We know that a man is not made right with God by obeying the law. He is made right by the faith of Jesus. And we believe in Him. His faith, and not our obedience, makes us right with God.”

`Read Romans 3:22, 26; Galatians 3:22; Ephesians 3:12; and Philippians 3:9. How do these verses help us understand that our salvation is based only on Christ’s perfect obedience to God?`