---
title:  The obedience of faith
date:   19/07/2017
---

_Genesis 15:5, 6_

Paul is clear that faith makes the Christian life possible. Faith helps us lay hold of the promises we have in Christ. But what is faith exactly? What does it include?

`Read Genesis 15:5, 6; John 3:14–16; 2 Corinthians 5:14, 15; and Galatians 5:6. What do these verses teach us about where faith starts?`

Real Bible faith is always an answer to God. Faith is not a feeling that a person decides to have because God demands it. Instead, true faith begins in a heart filled with thankfulness and love for God’s goodness. Faith works in this way in the lives of men and women in the Bible. And faith always comes as a result of steps God has taken. For example, Abraham has faith in the promises God makes to him (Genesis 15:5, 6). In the end, Paul says faith grows out of our understanding of what Christ did for us on the cross.

`Real faith is our answer to God’s love. So, what should our answer include? Read John 8:32, 36; Acts 10:43; Romans 1:5, 8; Romans 6:17; Hebrews 11:6; and James 2:19. What do these verses say about faith?`

Many people say that faith is “belief.” But this meaning causes problems. Why? The Greek word for “faith” is only the noun form of the verb “to believe.” So, to use the verb to explain the noun is the same as saying, “Faith is to have faith.” This explanation tells us nothing!

A careful study of the Bible shows that faith includes knowledge about God. It also includes accepting that knowledge with one’s mind. So, that is one reason why having a true picture of God is so important. Wrong ideas about who God is can make it harder to have faith. But believing the gospel is true is not enough. After all, “even the demons believe” (James 2:19, NIrV). But true faith also changes how a person lives. In Romans 1:5, Paul writes about the need to “obey God” (NIrV). Paul is not saying that obedience is the same as faith. Instead, he means faith affects the whole life, not just the mind. It includes following Jesus—not just a set of rules. So, faith is not just what we believe. It is also what we do, how we live, and in whom we trust.