---
title:  Does faith cause sin?
date:   20/07/2017
---

_Galatians 2:17, 18_

One of the main attacks against Paul was that his gospel encouraged people to sin. Paul taught we are saved by faith alone. No doubt Paul’s accusers thought people would take this teaching to mean the law was not important. They feared people would not bother to live holy lives. Martin Luther also faced the same attacks in the 1500s.

`Read Galatians 2:17, 18. Paul’s accusers say that his teaching that we are saved by faith alone encourages people to sin. How does Paul answer these attacks?`

Paul answers his accusers’ attacks in the strongest words possible: “Certainly not!” (NIrV). True, a person might fall into sin after coming to Christ. But Christ is not the cause. Now, suppose we break the law. Then we are the lawbreakers—never Christ. He never leads us into sin.

`Read Galatians 2:19–21. How does Paul describe his being united to or joined to Christ? In what way does his answer prove his accusers wrong?`

Paul finds the thinking of his accusers ridiculous. God does not make a person right with Him without changing how that person lives. Accepting Christ by faith involves fully joining with Him. It means being united or joined with Him in both His death and His return to life. Paul uses the word picture of our being put to death with Christ on the cross to explain what joining with Him means. Our old sinful ways die (Romans 6:5–14). We break away from our past. We are made new (2 Corinthians 5:17). We also have been “raised” to a new life in Christ. The risen Christ lives within us. Day by day, He makes us more like Himself.

So, faith in Christ is not an excuse for sin. Instead, faith in Christ is a call to a much deeper, richer relationship with Him. This deep relationship could never come from a religion that teaches we are saved by keeping the law.

`How do you feel about the teaching that we are saved by faith alone? Do you feel that this teaching is an excuse for sin? Or does it fill you with joy? What does your answer say about how you understand salvation?`