---
title:  Additional thought
date:   21/07/2017
---

“There is a danger to our people that comes from false ideas about being saved by faith. I saw that Satan would work to confuse minds on this point. The law of God has been preached to our people in a way that is without a true knowledge of Christ or His connection to the law. This way of preaching shows the same wrong understanding of the law that Cain’s offering showed. Many have not become believers because of these confusing ideas. And pastors have worked in the wrong way to reach hearts.

“For years I have felt that we need to spend more time on the topic that faith in Christ alone saves us. This topic more than any other needs to be clear in the minds of all. It is impossible for us fallen humans to earn anything by our own works. Even our best works will not save us. Being saved comes through faith in Jesus Christ alone.” —Adapted, Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, pages 18, 19.

“The law demands perfect obedience. And sinners are responsible for obeying it. But we do not have the power to obey. The only way we can be holy is through faith. By faith, we can bring to God the perfect obedience of Christ. And the Lord gives us credit for the obedience of His Son. Christ’s faithful life of obedience is accepted in place of our failures. God receives, forgives, and makes right with Himself the sorrowing and believing soul. God treats this soul as if he or she were holy. And God loves him or her as He loves His Son.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 367.

**Discussion questions**

`1. In the first quote, Ellen G. White says the topic of being saved by faith, more than any other topic, needs to be clear in the minds of the people. Is this as true for us today as it was when she wrote it more than 100 years ago? If so, why?`

`2. Paul and Martin Luther lived in different times and places. But why was Paul’s truth about how we are saved so important to the work Luther did to free minds from the spiritual slavery of Rome?`

**Summary**: Peter’s behavior in Antioch seemed to say that non-Jews had to be circumcised before they could be true Christians. Paul pointed out how wrong Peter was. Instead, we must accept what God has done for us in Christ. Only then can sinners be made right with God.