---
title:  Time Stands Still
date:   24/05/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Luke 6

**Time Stands Still**

A few years ago, I went through a difficult spiritual time in my life. God felt very distant. My prayer life was almost non-existent. I had little motivation to study the Bible, and when I did, it seemed forced and meaningless.

In the middle of my spiritual wilderness, a voice kept whispering, “Come to Me. Don’t try to fix anything. Just bring it all to Me.” I knew God was calling me, but to be honest, I really didn’t want to go to Him. I felt like He would make me give up things I loved and enjoyed. Some of these very things were responsible for my broken relationship with Him, but I didn’t want to surrender them. After several weeks of running, late one Friday evening, I entered my bedroom, knelt on a cushion on the floor, and poured my heart out to God.

I told Him everything. Every sin, fear, doubt, and pain—everything on my mind and heart. It was a raw, unfiltered moment with God. When I finished, I decided to let God speak to me. Up to that point, prayer had been a one-way conversation. I talked, and God listened. This time, God listened, and then He spoke to me. His voice wasn’t audible, but it was unmistakable to my heart and mind.

The first thing God said was, “I love you. I know you’re hurting. I know you’re running. I feel your pain. I love you just the way you are. You are safe with Me. I will help you. I will not leave you. Just trust Me.” God continued speaking, calming my fears and giving me practical advice on issues that were causing me grief. Tears began to fall as I came to terms with His unconditional love for me. When I looked at the clock, to my surprise, it was 1 a.m.! I had spent hours with God in prayer, and it felt like only a few minutes. I suddenly understood how Jesus could spend entire nights in prayer. This week, we’ll examine some of the instances when Jesus withdrew to spend a lengthy time in communion with God.

### inScribe

Write out Luke 6:12–16 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 12. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `