---
title:  Hypocrisy in Focus
date:   25/05/2025
---

### inGest

“And the whole multitude sought to touch Him, for power went out from Him and healed them all” (Luke 6:19). Take a moment to think about the significance of this single verse. A huge crowd from Judea, Jerusalem, Tyre, and Sidon was following Jesus. Many of the people were sick and “tormented with unclean spirits” (v. 18). Jesus healed all of them, even those who touched Him in passing. Jesus radiated the power of God! If one believed, one could be healed simply by touching Him.

Luke 6 begins with Jesus’ hungry disciples picking grain on the Sabbath and eating it, a grievous error according to the laws concerning Sabbath observance established by the Pharisees. When confronted, Jesus declared Himself to be Lord of the Sabbath. In the next few verses, He demonstrated His authority by healing the withered hand of a worshiper in the synagogue on the Sabbath—again while under the Pharisees’ surveillance. By the end of the chapter, Jesus had shared the Beatitudes, or blessings, that those who live according to God’s code of conduct will receive (vv. 20–23), pronounced woes on the rich and powerful (vv. 24–26), challenged all to love their enemies (vv. 27–36), encouraged His followers not to judge lest they be judged (vv. 37–42), established fruit-bearing as the sign of authentic Christianity (vv. 43–45), and urged all to build on the sure foundation of Christ, the Rock (vv. 46–49).

The focus of Luke 6 seems to be less on the miraculous works of God and more on the contrast that Jesus drew between the kingdom of God and its righteousness and the false “faith” the Pharisees taught. For instance, Jesus taught that the poor in spirit, those hungry for righteousness, and the persecuted would be blessed. This completely contradicted the teaching of the Jews and Pharisees, who believed that prosperity and success were a sign of God’s favor and that their status as God’s chosen people entitled them to God’s blessings. He taught people to love their enemies, even as the Pharisees were plotting to kill Him. In Luke 6, the writer goes to great pains to show how vastly Jesus’ message differed from that of the spiritual teachers of the time.

None of Jesus’ teachings formed without Him wrestling through a time of secret prayer. In Luke 6:12, Jesus ascended a “mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God.” He was burdened with the weighty consequences of the next day’s work. The next morning, He descended the mountain to choose twelve disciples and teach the true gospel. When we consider what Jesus was doing from day to day, is it any wonder that He occasionally withdrew to spend a night in prayer at His worship altar?

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from Luke 6. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What emotions did Jesus feel when interacting with hurting people whom He created and knew?`

`Why did the Pharisees fail to respond to Jesus in Luke 6 when He exposed their hypocrisy?`