---
title:  High-stakes Night Prayers
date:   26/05/2025
---

### inTerpret

The range of needs, threats, and diversions that Jesus faced during His earthly ministry are beyond what anyone else will ever experience. His burdens were made heavier because His own people rejected Him (John 1:11). He was betrayed (Matt. 26:24), captured (v. 50), forsaken by His disciples (v. 56), falsely accused (v. 60; 27:12), spat on and beaten (26:67), whipped, and crucified on a cross (27:26).

During Jesus’ three and a half years of public ministry, He faced daily threats from the Pharisees. We might think Jesus was somehow immune to the fear and anxiety we feel in a threatening situation, but is that true? Jesus often withdrew to pray when facing tense moments during His ministry. In Luke 5:12–15, Jesus healed a leper. To avoid stirring up opposition, Jesus urged him not to tell anyone about the miracle, but the man told anyone who would listen, and the ruling elites became jealous of His increasing popularity. “So He Himself often withdrew into the wilderness and prayed” (v. 16). This is no throwaway comment. Jesus knew His mission was to submit to the cross and die for the sins of the world, but He also knew this mission would become complicated should He gain prominence too quickly. At times, caught between the needs of the people and His call to the cross, Jesus would flee to His wilderness altar, His place of worship, where He would receive comfort, guidance, and power to move forward. However, this was not the only circumstance that drove Jesus to all-night sessions with God.

After Jesus healed a man with a withered hand on the Sabbath, the Pharisees were enraged and “discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus” (Luke 6:11). Can you imagine how Jesus felt at the end of that day? First came the high of healing one in need, swiftly followed by the low of society’s most powerfully connected people plotting His murder. It was in this context that Jesus felt the need for a long night with God. After this long night of worship and prayer, God told Jesus to choose disciples to minister and travel with Him (vv. 12–16). While it’s true that Jesus chose the disciples to prepare them to carry the gospel ministry forward after His death, He also chose them because He needed a friend group. He needed emotional support, and during that night of prayer, God told Him how to find it.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What needs drove Jesus to prayer?`