---
title:  Try This
date:   28/05/2025
---

### inVite

When I was growing up, at the beginning of the year or the launch of a new outreach program, our pastor would call for an all-night prayer meeting. We kids always felt relieved to be spared the experience, as we were too young to be out all night. Typically, we would stay until about 10 p.m., and then someone would take us home and put us to bed.

While regular church services on Sabbath were packed and Wednesday prayer meetings were well attended, not many people came to the all-night prayer services. There were always a few regular attendees, including my mom and dad. For years, I wondered how one could pray all night. Wouldn’t they run out of things to say? How would they fight off sleep? I discovered later that a few sermonettes and hymns went a long way to helping the prayer warriors get through the night. But what about me? Could I ever do that?

The answer came that one Friday night when I poured out my heart to God and listened as He spoke love to me. I also discovered a helpful tip for long prayer sessions with God. If, like me, you’re somewhat apprehensive about spending long stretches at your worship altar, start small. Don’t worry about spending an entire night in prayer; start with perhaps an hour. Remember, the objective is not time; it’s communion with God. No matter how long you plan to be with God, try this formula:

Begin your time with God by inviting the Holy Spirit to join you. He will come, and He will draw you to the altar. Next, open the Bible to a passage of Scripture. It could be only a few verses, or it could be more. It’s up to you. The point is to focus deeply on the Word of God. Ask yourself these things: What’s the main point of this passage? Who’s speaking? Who’s the audience? Is there something to apply to my life? Is there something I need to change? When you’re finished, pray about what you’ve read. Be honest with God. Tell Him everything on your mind, and ask Him to speak to you about the passage or anything else He wants to share with you. It may take a few sessions to quiet the other voices in your head, but the payoff is well worth the effort. Not only will God speak powerfully to you but time will stand still as well. You will come to crave this precious time with God.

### Journal

`Meditate on Luke 6 again and look for Jesus.`

`What do you think Jesus was saying to His Father during His night of prayer in Luke 6:12–16?`

`How did you see Jesus differently or see Him again during this week’s study?`

`Prayer Response:`