---
title:  The Need For Rest In Our Busy Lives
date:  26/06/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 2:1–3; Jeremiah 45:1–5; Deuteronomy 31:16; Mark 6:30–32; Genesis 4:1–12.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “LORD, I cannot wait to enter your Temple. I am so excited! Every part of me cries out to be with the Living God” (Psalm 84:2, ERV).

MARY LOOKS AT THE CLOCK. Only two hours until Sabbath starts. Then Mary looks sadly around the small apartment. Toys lie all around the living room. The kitchen is a mess. Sarah, the youngest child of Mary and Josh, is in bed with a fever. Mary agreed to help greet people at church tomorrow. So, Mary and her family will need to leave home 30 minutes early in the morning. “I hope I can find some quiet time tomorrow,” Mary wishes to herself.

At the same time, on the other side of town, Josh stands in line at the grocery store. Traffic on the way to the store was awful. The checkout line is very long. Why does everyone need to do their shopping right at this time? Josh wonders. “I need some rest,” he groans in his heart. “I cannot keep rushing around in this way. There must be more to this life!”

Our lives are so busy. They are full of rush hours, work hours, visits to the doctor, conversations on Skype and What’s App, shopping, school, and more. Many of these things give us joy and make life worth living. At the same time, we must be careful not to get so busy that we fail to rest or remember what is really important in life.

So, how do we find rest in our busy lives?