---
title:  Worn Out And Tired 
date:  27/06/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Why does God make a rest day before anyone on earth is ever tired? For the answer, read Genesis 2:1–3.`

God made a special day for people to remember to rest: the Sabbath. This day is a time to stop and enjoy life. The Sabbath also is a time for us to celebrate the gift of grass, air, animals, nature, water, and other people. Most of all, the Sabbath is a time for us to remember God. He is the One who made every good gift.

But then Adam and Eve sinned. God told Adam and Eve they must leave the Garden of Eden. Did the invitation that God gave humans to rest on the Sabbath end at that time? No. God wanted to make sure people know that the Sabbath is forever. So, God made the Sabbath a part of time from the very start of life on earth. There will always be the invitation from God to us to rest every seventh day.

Science has given us many inventions to help us save time. So, you may think that we should be less tired than people who lived 200 years ago, right? But today, many of us feel that we do not have enough time to rest. When we do not work, we rush here and there to do so many more things. But no matter how much we get done, we always feel we are behind. There is always more to do!

Studies show that we are getting less sleep, too. Sadly, many people drink coffee to keep going. Yes, we have faster cell phones, faster computers, and faster Internet connections today. But even so, we still feel we do not have enough time for everything.

`Read Mark 6:31; Psalm 4:8; Exodus 23:12; Deuteronomy 5:14; and Matthew 11:28. What do these verses teach us about why we need rest?`

The God who made us knew we needed to rest. God made the night and the Sabbath to give us a chance to rest from our work and sleep. Did you know that accepting Jesus as the Lord of your life includes your making time to rest? Think about this: the Sabbath is not just a good idea or suggestion. The Sabbath is a commandment!

`How busy is your life? What can you do to enjoy better the rest that God wants us to have?`