---
title:  When Our “tank” Is Empty 
date:  28/06/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Many people today do not get enough sleep. They feel very tired and worn out. Worse, many of us feel that our hearts are the same as empty gas tanks. But somehow, we keep going anyway. What happens when we feel tired during these hard times? We often feel hopeless and lost.

Baruch must feel that way too. Baruch is the assistant to Jeremiah. Baruch writes down the messages that Jeremiah gets from God. For sure, Baruch feels sad and tired during the final years before the Babylonians destroy Jerusalem.

`Read Jeremiah 45:1–5. What do these verses tell you about how Baruch feels?`

Baruch gets a message from the throne room of God (Jeremiah 45:2). Wow! What if God sends you a personal message the same as He sends Baruch? How do you think you will feel? God sends Baruch a personal message during the 4th year that Jehoiakim is king in Judah. That happens around 605 or 604 B.C. Jeremiah 45:3 shows us a real picture of how someone feels when his “gas tank” is empty.

We know the history of that time. So, Baruch is not being a crybaby or making a big fuss about nothing. He has good reason to feel hopeless and tired. A lot of bad things are happening. More bad things are on the way.

`How does God answer Baruch? Read Jeremiah 45:4, 5 to answer the question.`

Baruch feels deep pain. God does, too. The answer that God gives Baruch shows us His pain. The pain God feels is much deeper than anything Baruch feels. God built Jerusalem. Soon He will let the Babylonians tear it down. God planted Israel the same as a grape garden (Isaiah 5:1–7). Now God will let the Babylonians “pull out” Israel the same as roots. God does not want this to happen to His people. But they have turned against Him. So, this is the only way God can save them.

But there is hope for Baruch. God will save Baruch at a time of awful loss when Jerusalem will be destroyed.

`What hope and comfort do the words of God to Baruch give you? How do these words show that God is there for us even when bad things happen in our lives?`