---
title:  What The Old Testament Says About Rest 
date:  29/06/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

For sure, we all need rest. That is why the whole Bible talks about this idea. God gave us work to do, yes. But God wants rest to be a part of everything we do, too.

The Old Testament includes several verbs that show rest. In Genesis 2:2, 3, God rests on the seventh day. The Hebrew word for rest in these verses is “shabbat.” “Shabbat” means “to stop work, to rest, to take a holiday.” “Shabbat” also is used in Exodus 5:5, where it means “making someone rest” from work. The king of Egypt is angry because Moses makes the people rest from their work.

The fourth commandment says that God rests on the seventh day. The Hebrew word for rests is “nuakh” (Exodus 20:11; Deuteronomy 5:14). “Nuakh” also is written as “rest” in Job 3:13. But in Numbers 10:36, “nuakh” is written as “put in its place” (ERV) and “stopped” (NIrV) to show that the holy men of Israel put the ark, or Holy Box with the law of the Lord, in the camp. 2 Kings 2:15 shows us that the spirit of Elijah “rested” on Elisha.

Another important Hebrew verb for rest is “shaqat.” “Shaqat” means “to be at rest; to help someone; to be quiet.” “Shaqat” is written as “rest” in Joshua 11:23 to show us that the land rests after Joshua wins many wars. The word “shaqat” also shows “peace” in Joshua and Judges.

The verb raga\` shows rest, too. In Deuteronomy, God warns His people not to disobey Him. God tells Israel that they will not find rest when their enemies carry them away from their land (Deuteronomy 28:65). Raga` is also written in Jeremiah 50:34 to show that the people of God will not have rest in Babylon.

`Read Deuteronomy 31:16 and 2 Samuel 7:12. What rest do these verses talk about?`

Rest, or lying down, in these verses is a word picture for death. God makes a promise to David in 2 Samuel 7:12: “When your days are done and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up [put on your throne] your son after you, who will be born from you. And I will build his nation [country]” (NLV).

What do all these Hebrew verbs show us? They help us understand what the Bible means when it talks about rest. Rest is not limited only to the Sabbath. Our bodies, minds, and hearts all need rest, too.