---
title:  Rest In The New Testament 
date:  30/06/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The New Testament writers often use the Greek word “anapauo.” “Anapauo” means “rest, relax, and to make something fresh and new again.” We see this word written as “rest” in Matthew 11:28. Jesus says: “ ‘Come to me, all you who are tired and are carrying heavy loads. I will give you rest’ ” (Matthew 11:28, NIrV). “Anapauo” also can mean “rest for the body” (Matthew 26:45). Paul writes the word “anapauo” when he says that seeing his friends again fills his spirit with new life (1 Corinthians 16:18).

The word written as “rest” in Luke 23:56 comes from the Greek word “hesychazo.” In this verse, Luke uses the word “hesychazo” to talk about the Sabbath rest. Luke says that the followers of Jesus rest on the Sabbath while Jesus rests in the grave (Luke 23:56). “Hesychazo” also means living a quiet life (1 Thessalonians 4:11). The verb can show someone who does not disagree and so stays quiet (Acts 11:18).

Hebrews 4:4 says that God rested on the seventh day after He made the sky and the earth. The word written as “rest” in Hebrews 4:4 comes from the Greek verb “katapauo.” This verb means to “cause something to stop; to rest.”

`In Mark 6:30–32, Jesus tells His followers to come and rest. His followers have a lot more work to do for God, right? So, why does Jesus command them to stop doing this work? Look at the verses leading up to verses 30–32 to help you understand why Jesus says what He says.`

“ ‘Come with me. . . . You need to get some rest’ ” (Mark 6:31, NIrV). Do you see that the words of Jesus are not an invitation? They are a command! Jesus cares about His followers and their health. His followers just came back from a big trip. Jesus sent them in pairs to do work for God (Mark 6:7). Mark 6:30 tells us that the followers of Jesus are very excited when they get back. Their hearts must be full! They want to share everything with Jesus. But first, Jesus orders them to rest. Mark gives us an explanation for why Jesus says this: “There were so many people that he and his followers did not even have time to eat” (Mark 6:31, ERV). Modern followers of Jesus have the same problem today. Jesus helps us remember that we need to protect our health and hearts by taking time to rest.