---
title:  'Cain: Always Wandering, But Never At Rest '
date:  01/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Genesis 4:1–12. Why does Cain “wander from place to place” on the earth (Genesis 4:12, ERV)?`

God respects Abel and his offering, and not Cain (Genesis 4:4, 5). The Bible does not give us the exact reason. But we know why. “Cain comes to God with wrong feelings in his heart. Cain complains. He is unhappy about the offering God wants him to bring. The animal offering shows that Cain needs a Savior. So, Cain brings God a different gift. This gift does not show God that Cain is sorry for sin. Cain feels he will show he is weak if he follows the exact plan of God. Many people feel the same way today. They do not want to trust in the promise of a Savior. That is why Cain chooses to do things his way. He comes to God with fruit. This offering from Cain is a word picture for his own good behavior.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 72, adapted.

God announces that Cain will “wander from place to place” on the earth (Genesis 4:12, ERV). Does God force Cain to wander? No. Cain is the cause of his own suffering. He wanders because He disobeys. Cain has no rest in God. So, Cain can find no rest on the earth.

The Hebrew word written as “accepted” (Genesis 4:4) also can be written as “to look closely at something; to think about it carefully.” What God really looks at in this verse is the heart. God does not accept the fruit from Cain because God looks deep into the heart of Cain. God sees the real reason Cain brings the fruit offering. This verse is a good example of how God will search the hearts of everyone who ever lived when He does His end-time work as Judge.

`How does Cain feel when God judges the sin in his heart? Read Genesis 4:13—17 for the answer.`

When we run from God, we find no rest. We try to fill our need for God with other things, people, and a busy life. Cain built a city and had many future children. These are not bad things to do. But if we do not work for God, all our hard work will be for nothing.

`Our sins often cause us to suffer. How can the forgiveness that Jesus offers us help us to heal?`