---
title:  Further Thought
date:  02/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“The Jewish Teachers in the time of Jesus believed they needed to show the people they were busy all the time. The people believed that the teachers were very religious because they were so busy. The teachers did not depend on God. They trusted in their own good works and correct behavior to show they were very holy. By doing these things, the teachers separated their spirits from God. We face the same danger today. We do more and more work for God. We have success in the work we do. So, we are in danger of trusting human plans. We also are in danger of praying less and having less faith. The followers of Jesus were in danger of forgetting to depend on God. We are, too. But our good behavior cannot save us. We always must look to Jesus. He is the reason for our success. For sure, we must work hard to save people from sin. At the same time, we also must take time to think about God, pray, and to study the Bible. So, we must remember to pray. We must ask God to bless our work with the love and mercy of Jesus. Then our work will be a blessing to other people.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 362, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Do you feel the never-ending pressure to be on top of everything in your life all the time? Do you feel that you always must be there for anyone who needs you whenever they want? When we try to live up to these false ideas, we can make our hearts, minds, bodies, and spirits tired and sick. How can your church become a welcoming place for worn-out, tired people who wish to rest?`

`We all have busy lives. Is it possible we are busy doing too many good things, even for God? Read the story in Mark 6:30–32 about Jesus and His followers. What lessons does this story have for us today?`

`Everything is faster than it was in the past: airplane travel, cell phones, cars, and computers. So, why do we still feel rushed and tired? How does your answer help you to see why God made rest one of His Ten Commandments?`

`Before humans sinned, God made the Sabbath in Eden. What does this show us about why humans needed rest, even on a perfect earth, before there was any sin?`