---
title:  The Controversy
date:   07/10/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “The law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ” (John 1:17, NKJV).

**Introduction**: John 1:17

**Righteousness by Faith: Not a Dividing Doctrine**

Paul’s letter to the Romans is structured a lot like an argument essay, and as an English teacher who grades hundreds of research papers, I particularly recognize one argumentative strategy that Paul uses: copious amounts of quotes from Scripture to support his points so that his readers will know these ideas predate him and are a part of Jewish religious tradition. Paul labors in this letter: it’s fairly long and quite complicated. He covers the same ground multiple times. It reminds me a lot of Martin Luther King Jr.’s Letter From a Birmingham Jail because King, too, writes a really long, argumentative letter in which he labors because he wants so much for his readers to understand what he means.

**Bear with and accept believers who might believe differently than you do.**

Having been a Seventh-day Adventist all my life, and now having gone beyond middle age, I have frequently seen people struggle with the concept of righteousness by faith. On a personal level, I have seen church members argue heatedly over whether the belief in righteousness by faith might lead to the idea that sinning is inevitable and therefore—on some level—acceptable. On a congregational level, I have seen church members become so upset over this doctrine that they have left their church to find other believers whose interpretation of Scripture, particularly of righteousness by faith, was more like their own. On a denominational level, I have taken a class in Seventh-day Adventist Church history that shows this issue was present back in 1888 at the Minneapolis General Conference Session and caused quite a rift among church leadership. It must give Satan great pleasure to know that a doctrine so beautiful and life-changing can also cause such dissension.

I don’t think Paul wanted to stir up controversy—quite the opposite. Near the end of his letter he writes, “We who are strong ought to bear with the failing of the weak and not to please ourselves” (Rom. 15:1, NIV). He goes on to say, “Accept one another, then, just as Christ accepted you, in order to bring praise to God” (verse 7, NIV).

As you read the following lessons, keep in mind Paul’s advice. Bear with and accept believers who might believe differently than you do. I believe one aspect of faith is believing that God, in His mercy, continues to work with His children and that His Holy Spirit works always to lead us to greater spiritual light. If others do not believe as you do, know that God’s Spirit isn’t through with them, or you, yet.

_Renard Doneskey, Keene, Texas, USA_