---
title:  The Law of the Jews?
date:   08/10/2017
---

**Evidence**: Acts 15:8–10

Some Christians, today, wonder how much of Jewish law we should follow. They are in good company. Our Christian fathers also asked this question, still considering themselves Jews. In the book of Acts we see the newest members of the Christian faith dealing with this question. The answer comes from the mouth of Peter who says, “So God, who knows the heart, acknowledged them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He did to us, and made no distinction between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith. Now therefore, why do you test God by putting a yoke on the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear” (Acts 15:8–10, NKJV). This “yoke” was the law of the Jews that they had kept.

**If the law was too much to bear for them, surely it would prove the same for us.**

Peter says that the yoke of Jewish law was something that “neither [their] fathers nor [they] were able to bear” (verse 10, NKJV). This should be a lesson to us as Christians today. If the law was too much to bear for them, surely it would prove the same for us.

Jesus came to save all people. Jesus’ grace, mercy, and unending love is meant for all people without distinction of race, skin color, social customs, and so on. The Jews had long felt that they were the only ones who were worthy to receive the benefits of God’s love and blessings. They believed other people— Gentiles, and certainly the hated Samaritans—were on the outside in God’s eyes and should be treated as such by the Jews. Many thought that the only way a Gentile could be accepted by the Jews was if he or she were to adopt all the Jewish customs and practices; but this is not the case. Christ came to save Gentiles and Jews alike. This is simply because we are all children of God. We are all loved by Him infinitely, and that love transcended the various customs and laws of the Jews that they held on to so desperately.

**React**

`Do we as Adventists sometimes think of people from other religions, other denominations, and other lifestyle practices in the same way the Jews thought of Gentiles in Jesus’ time?`

`Where should the line be drawn when it comes to accepting others into the church and people’s practices with which we may not agree?`

`How can we reject people in the church because of their lifestyle and practices yet still show them God’s love as Christians?`

_Andre Doneskey, Keene, Texas, USA_