---
title:  New Versus Old - What’s the Difference?
date:   09/10/2017
---

**Logos**: Matt. 19:17; Heb. 8:6; James 2:10; Rev. 12:17; 14:12

**The Rich Young Ruler** (Matt. 19:17)

Jesus came to this earth knowing the difficulty the Jews and Gentiles would face not only in accepting Him as their Savior but also in accepting each other into the fellowship of believers. The interaction between Jesus and the rich young ruler gives us insight into this very dichotomy. The rich young ruler first asks Jesus in Matthew 19:16, “Teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may obtain eternal life?” (NASB, emphasis added). This man was searching for some “good” work that he might do to have salvation. The question he used was based upon a misconception of the Levitical law that the Jewish people had been following for years. When God instituted the sacrificial practice in Eden (Gen. 3:21) and advanced it through Moses (Leviticus 1), He intended to impart a symbol to His people that would guide them in their faith as they sought a relationship with God.

**God Himself shows us that faith and works are inseparable.**

The sacrifice of an unblemished lamb symbolized and pointed to “the Lamb who was slain from the creation of the world” (Rev. 13:8, NIV). Yet, over the hundreds of years that God’s people practiced sacrifice, they lost the true meaning of what the unblemished lamb was pointing toward. Instead of finding their faith and hope in Jesus, God’s people focused on the work of sacrificing a lamb as the means of salvation. Thus, the rich young ruler approached salvation with a “good works” attitude. He was seeking from Jesus the step-by-step process to fulfill his part of the deal. In the next verse, Jesus questions his definition of good, saying, “Why are you asking Me about what is good? There is only One who is good” (Matt. 19:17, NASB). By responding to the rich young ruler this way, Jesus subtly challenges how he thinks about salvation by alluding to the fact that no good work can bring the sinner closer to salvation. However, Jesus still holds the law, or commandments, in high regard by concluding, “But if you wish to enter into life, keep the commandments” (verse 17, NASB).

**Internal Versus External** (Heb. 8:6)

As the early church began to wrestle with what it meant to be a follower of Jesus, a clearer picture of God’s plan of salvation emerged. The author of Hebrews wrote of this clarity: “But now [Jesus] has obtained a more excellent ministry, by as much as He is also the mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted on better promises” (Heb. 8:6, NASB). If there is a better covenant founded on better promises, there must be a broken covenant and promise that preceded the better covenant. We begin to see these two covenants unfold in the following verses. The first covenant, or old covenant, was an external display (physically sacrificing a lamb) to produce an internal change (personal knowledge of and faith in God’s salvation). Hebrews 8:7 tells us that there was a fault in the old covenant: it was not kept by God’s people. However, God, in His infinite wisdom and mercy, provided a better covenant, a new covenant. This covenant would be written on the hearts of His people (verse 10). God shifted the covenant from an external display that was supposed to produce an internal change to a new covenant that started with an internal change (the law of God written on the hearts of His people) which would in turn produce an external display of following the law. Thus, as God writes His law on our hearts, we fulfill the commandments not for the purpose of attaining salvation but because we already have salvation through faith in Jesus.

**Where Is the Balance?** (Rev. 12:17; 14:12)

Thus far we have seen that a new covenant was established by God because His children did not uphold the first covenant. How did the early church balance the new covenant with the law of God in the Jerusalem Council? One way they might have looked at it was through the eyes of John the revelator. Exiled to the Isle of Patmos, John had a glimpse into God’s throne room like none other seen before. John saw a group of people with two distinct characteristics. This group of people kept the commandments of God and held to the testimony of Jesus (Rev. 12:17). Later, in Revelation 14:12, this group kept the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus. John sees the answer to the age-old question of faith and works, of whether or not Gentiles needed to be Jews to be Christians. God Himself shows us that faith and works are inseparable. Those who are true keepers of the commandments of God have had an internal change, a work of the Holy Spirit in their hearts producing faith in Jesus. This faith in Jesus, faith in the sacrifice on the cross, gives the repentant believer hope of salvation and produces in him or her good works that flow like a spring from the mountainside.

**React**

`What similarities do you see between the rich young ruler and yourself?`

`What does it look like today to balance the new covenant and works?`

`Is there somebody in your life with whom you are hesitant to share the gospel because of your cultural or religious differences? Why?`

_Michael Gibson, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_