---
title:  Regarding Righteousness by Faith
date:   10/10/2017
---

**Testimony**: Exod. 20:1–17; Leviticus 12; 16; 23

“This method of presenting the gospel characterized the labors of [Paul] throughout his ministry among the Gentiles. Always he kept before them the cross of Calvary.”1

“The thought that the righteousness of Christ is imputed to us, not because of any merit on our part, but as a free gift from God, is a precious thought. The enemy of God and man is not willing that this truth should be clearly presented; for he knows that if the people receive it fully, his power will be broken. If he can control minds so that doubt and unbelief and darkness shall compose the experience of those who claim to be the children of God, he can overcome them with temptation.

**“The unfailing, inexhaustible righteousness of Christ becomes our righteousness by faith.”**

“That simple faith which takes God at His word should be encouraged. God’s people must have that faith which will lay hold of divine power; ‘for by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God.’ [Ephesians 2:8.] Those who believe that God for Christ’s sake has forgiven their sins, should not, through temptation, fail to press on to fight the good fight of faith.”2

“The Lord Jesus is our strength and happiness, the great storehouse from which, on every occasion, men may draw strength. As we study Him, talk of Him, become more and more able to behold Him—as we avail ourselves of His grace and receive the blessings He proffers us, we have something with which to help others. Filled with gratitude, we communicate to others the blessings that have been freely given us. Thus receiving and imparting, we grow in grace; and a rich current of praise and gratitude constantly flows from our lips; the sweet spirit of Jesus kindles thanksgiving in our hearts, and our souls are uplifted with a sense of security. The unfailing, inexhaustible righteousness of Christ becomes our righteousness by faith.”3

**React**

`Why do you suppose some of us seem to have automatic faith, while others are more skeptical?`

`Do you have complete faith in Jesus Christ at all times, or does that faith sometimes turn into more of a hope?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 208, 209.</sup>
<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers (1915), p. 161.</sup>
<sup>3. Ellen G. White, Our Father Cares, p. 219.</sup>

_Sasha Doneskey, Keene, Texas, USA_