---
title:  The Armor of Light
date:   11/10/2017
---

**How-to**: Acts 15:5–29; Romans 13; 14

We cannot walk the path of righteousness without God’s guidance, but we do not have to worry because we are never on our own. The immediate future is dark, but He is the light that shines upon our long and treacherous journey. What are the next steps moving forward in faith despite the darkness ahead?

Grab your gear. Romans 13:12 states, “The night is nearly over; the day is almost here. So let us put aside the deeds of darkness and put on the armor of light” (NIV). More often than not, we make our own decisions without consulting God. Make your first action each day a meaningful one by praying for the Holy Spirit to guide all of your thoughts and decisions. Put on the armor of light, and you will be at peace knowing that God has everything under control.

**Righteousness by faith is an incredible gift from God.**

Use your compass. God left us with the ultimate tool for determining directions: the Bible. Faithfully delve into His Word to discover answers. According to Paul, all the beliefs we hold are between us and God and should be led by faith (Rom. 14:22, 23). Reexamine your beliefs in accordance with the answers placed in your heart by His hand. Keep in mind that we should help others along the way, being careful not to force our beliefs on anyone.

Look for water. While traveling in the wilderness, plants and animals are signs of a nearby water source. Water is the first thing that should be obtained for survival. Search daily for “the spring of living water” (Jer. 17:13, NIV). Jesus told the woman at the well that she would never thirst if she had living water, the Holy Spirit (John 4:14). Christians today can thrive if we remember the rivers of living water that flow within our hearts.

In Acts 15:9, Peter said, “[God] did not discriminate between us and [the Gentiles], for he purified their hearts by faith” (NIV). We do not have to carry the burden of righteousness on our own shoulders, because God’s grace covers our shortcomings. Righteousness by faith is an incredible gift from God, all we have to do is accept it.

**React**

`Why is righteousness by faith important? What does James say about faith and works?`

`Are there times in your life when you forgot to have faith in God’s plans? With this in mind, how can you help others with this same mind-set?`

`Have you ever tried to force God or your beliefs on someone? How can you approach this differently?`

_Kylie Kurth, Indianola, Iowa, USA_