---
title:  The Church Isn’t a Cult—It’s a Family
date:   12/10/2017
---

**Opinions**: Gal. 1:1–12

In the twenty-first century, there are those who still cling to the gospel of human origins rather than that of divine origin. Paul, when writing to the Galatians, pointed out this same flaw in their time period. He writes, “I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting the one who called you to live in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel—which is really no gospel at all. Evidently some people are throwing you into confusion and are trying to pervert the gospel of Christ” (Gal. 1:6, 7, NIV). In the early church, many people believed that for a Gentile to be saved they must first convert to being a Jew. This was later overturned; however, many still cling to that belief.

**Our God has bestowed upon us the mission to tell of His love to all people—whether they are converted or not.**

There are many aspects of our church that may seem cultlike: we go to church on Saturday, which is different; we don’t eat pork or some of the other popular meats; and so forth. However, the biggest similarity is how we are so closed to the ideas of outsiders.

It’s almost as if a red alarm goes off in our heads when we hear the word non-Adventist, when we should be hearing an opportunity. Non-Adventist does not equate to heathen. It can mean Christian, nondenominational, or someone who is simply looking for answers and has yet to align themselves with one religion. God’s love and salvation are not based on whether or not you sign on the dotted line of your baptism card. His love knows no bounds—it goes beyond the closed doors of our church.

I know that when “nonbelievers” come to church, we will greet and smile at them. But what about outside of church? We are told as children to always show Jesus through our words and actions—to witness. Is it too much to go beyond the boundaries of witnessing and befriend them?

We serve a God who is merciful, kind, loving, and forgiving—He is truly incredible. We serve and love Him and strive for the day when we will see Him face-to-face. Our God has bestowed upon us the mission to tell of His love to all people—whether they are converted or not.

**React**

`How many times have I missed the opportunity in my daily life to go beyond witnessing and befriend someone who is not an Adventist?`

`What can I do to show God’s love and open arms to those around me?`

_DeAndra Merrills, Keene, Texas, USA_