---
title:  Covenants—Then and Now
date:   13/10/2017
---

**Exploration**: Gen. 17:10; Leviticus 12; Matt. 15:6; Acts 15:1–12

**Conclude**

Ever since Paul wrote his passionate and sometimes-hard-to-understand letters dealing with the tension between law and grace, some Christians have had questions. One is, “If I am saved only through faith in Jesus, how much of the law do I need to keep?” Another is, “How am I to treat someone who claims to be a believer but whose ideas and actions seem far less accountable to what I’ve believed is the Truth and to the religious customs I think are important?” The answer is to keep our eyes firmly fixed on Jesus and His sufficiency and His promised Spirit power to overcome.

**Consider**

`Analyzing a homeowners’ association covenant (or using your own if you have one). Summarize the responsibilities of the homeowner and the homeowners’ association board. How is this covenant similar to or different from God’s covenant, such as the one described in Genesis 6:18; 15:18; 17:10; etc.?`

`Drawing a diagram of the tabernacle and courtyard, including all its furniture, and using pens or pencils of different colors to trace the actions and movements of the high priest on the Day of Atonement.`

`Studying the English translation of the “Shabbat” chapter in the Mishnah, rabbinic rules which would have been in force in Jesus’ time. (Link follows.) Try to ascertain the often-sincere motivations of the rabbis as they formulated these guidelines. According to Jesus (Matt. 15:6), many of these traditions vitiated God’s own laws. The Mishnah chapter is located on http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/Talmud/shabbat7.html.`

`Starting a social media discussion on Acts 15:1–12, which tells the Jerusalem Council’s decision about what to require of Gentiles in lieu of Moses’ law. Verse 20 lists only four requirements (abstaining from things polluted by idols, from sexual immorality, from things strangled, and from blood). Why those four requirements and no more?`

`Formulating a rebuttal case to a fictional ACLU-style lawsuit brought against those who teach Leviticus 12, which seems to unfairly discriminate against female babies, whose mothers require twice the time of postpartum uncleanness and purification as those who are born male babies.`

**Connect**

Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 395ff.

_Maylan Schurch, Renton, Washington, USA_