---
title:  Three Options
date:  15/10/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: 2 Corinthians 5:1–10**

**Three Options**

There is perhaps no biblical passage that the Christian world has misunderstood more than 2 Corinthians 5:1–10. There, the apostle Paul expressed his intense desire to be absent from the body and present with the Lord. The critical question in this passage is not whether Paul wanted to be absent from the body and present with the Lord, because he did. The big question is when Paul expected this to occur. Was it at the moment of death or was it at the end of the age, when his mortal body would be transformed into the likeness of Christ’s glorified body?

A close examination of these verses reveals that the apostle did not merely contemplate two options (present with or absent from the Lord) but rather three. There was the possibility of being present in the body on earth and absent from the Lord in heaven or absent from the body on earth and present with the Lord in heaven. Paul also described a third option, which he did not prefer—being found unclothed or naked.

What did the apostle mean by the word unclothed? In order to answer this question, we must carefully analyze the terminology, the immediate context, and other parallel passages in the writings of the apostle Paul. A careful study of this passage reveals that being found “unclothed” is synonymous with the “sleep” of death, that is, the period between this life in a corruptible and mortal body and the future life in our incorruptible and immortal body.

#### inScribe

Write out 2 Corinthians 5:1–10 from the translation of your choice. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `