---
title:  A Tent and a Building
date:  16/10/2022
---

#### inGest

In this passage, the apostle Paul compares our present corruptible and mortal body to a _tent_ that is easily dissolved or destroyed at death (cf. Job 4:19; 10:9). Tents are not permanent structures; with the passing of time they tear and decompose. On the other hand, Paul compares the glorified body of the resurrected saints with a permanent, immortal, and incorruptible _building_ in heaven not made with hands.

Peter, the other pillar of the New Testament church, also compared his fragile earthly body to a tent that he would put off at death: “Yes, I think it is right, as long as I am in this _tent_, to stir you up by reminding you, knowing that shortly I must _put off my tent_, just as our Lord Jesus Christ showed me. Moreover, I will be careful to ensure that you always have a reminder of these things after my _decease_” (2 Pet. 1:13–15; cf. John 21:18, 19). The word decease is also translated “departure,” meaning a departure from life, that is to say, death (cf. Luke 9:31).

While in his earthly tent—the corruptible and mortal body—the apostle Paul _groaned_ for the building that God had prepared for him in heaven, his glorified body not made with hands (cf. Mark 14:58; Heb. 9:11; Dan. 2:34, 44). Elsewhere the apostle used the identical word “groan” to refer to the earnest longing for redemption of the body at the second coming of Christ (Rom. 8:23).

The apostle Paul then introduced a third option other than living in the present tent or receiving the building from heaven. There was also the possibility of being “unclothed” or “naked”: “For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed with our habitation which is from heaven, if indeed, having been clothed, we shall not be found naked” (2 Cor. 5:2, 3). Thus, Paul weighed three options and considered one of them the best. He could live in the present body, or receive his glorified body from heaven, or be “unclothed.”

Paul’s most intense desire was to be absent from the body (the present tent) and present with the Lord (in the future building), but he explicitly stated that it was _not his preference_ to be unclothed or naked (to die). He desired translation to heaven without seeing death. Having carefully studied the context and terminology, we can understand the controversial verse that most Christians misuse to teach the immortality of the soul. “We are confident, yes, well pleased rather to be absent from the body [the tent], and to be present with the Lord [in the building]” (v. 8).

**Memorize your favorite verse in 2 Corinthians 5:1–10. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How has this passage confused you in the past?`

`Beyond the imagery Paul used, what is his point in the entire passage?`