---
title:  Groaning for Immortality
date:  17/10/2022
---

#### inTerpret

The apostle Paul was not groaning to be unclothed, that is, to die, but rather to be further clothed with his resurrected body: “For we who are in this tent _groan_, being burdened, not because we want to be unclothed, but further _clothed_, that _mortality_ may be _swallowed up_ by life” (2 Cor. 5:4). This verse contains some key words Paul used elsewhere that help us understand the passage we are reviewing. In Rom. 8:23 Paul wrote that he groaned, longing for the redemption of his body at Christ’s coming. First Corinthians 15:50–55 contains three key terms that are in the 2 Corinthians 5 passage: “mortal,” “clothed upon,” and “swallowed up.” Here is the Corinthian passage with my own explanatory notes in brackets:

“Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood [the present tent] cannot inherit the kingdom of God; nor does corruption [the present tent] inherit incorruption [the heavenly building]. Behold, I tell you a mystery: We shall not all sleep [be unclothed], but we shall all be changed [receive our resurrected body]—in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye [instantaneously and miraculously], at the last trumpet [at the second coming]. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible [receive the heavenly building], and we shall be changed [from the tent to the building]. For this corruptible must _put on_ [be clothed with] incorruption, and this mortal must _put on_ [be clothed with] immortality. So when this corruptible [the tent] has _put on_ [been clothed with] incorruption, and this _mortal_ [the tent] has _put on_ [been clothed] with immortality [the building] then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written: ‘Death is _swallowed up_ in victory.’ ‘O Death, where is your sting? O Hades, where is your victory?’ ” (Emphasis added.)

The apostle Paul was clear that we do not receive our heavenly building when we die, but rather at the second coming: “For our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body [the tent] that it may be conformed to His glorious body [the building], according to the working by which He is able even to subdue all things to Himself” (Phil. 3:20, 21).

Unfortunately, most Christians embellish the text by inserting words that are not there. This is how they interpret it: “We are confident, yes, well pleased rather that our _immortal soul_ be absent from the body and be present _immediately at death_ with the Lord.” The words “soul,” “immortal,” and “immediately” are not present in the text. When did Paul expect to be present with the Lord? First Thessalonians 4:17 tells us that it was at the second coming.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do we similarly experience Paul’s groaning for the redemption of the body?`