---
title:  Well Pleasing to God
date:  19/10/2022
---

#### inVite

As we have seen, the apostle knew that while he lived in his corruptible tent, he was absent from the Lord (2 Cor. 5:6, 7). He was confident, however, that God had a building in store for him in heaven. At present we walk by faith because we are physically absent from the Lord and groan for our building (v. 7). When we receive our heavenly building, we will no longer need to walk by faith because we will be physically present with the Lord. Hebrews 11:1 tells us that “faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen,” and Romans 8:24 assures us that we now live in hope: “For we were saved in this hope, but hope that is seen is not hope; for why does one still hope for what he sees?” This is not some “pie in the sky” hope. God has given us His Spirit as a guarantee or down payment, thus assuring us that He will give us our building when hope meets fulfillment (2 Cor. 5:8). God is not about to lose His down payment!

Paul considered it most important, whether present or absent, to be well pleasing to the Lord (v. 9), because believers must appear before the judgment seat of Christ to render an account for what they did while they lived in the tent (v. 10). Pleasing God means keeping His commandments and doing what is pleasing in His sight (1 John 3:22). In Colossians 1:10–12 the apostle explained what he meant by pleasing the Lord. It means to “walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing Him, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God; strengthened with all might, according to His glorious power, for all patience and longsuffering with joy; giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in the light” (emphasis supplied).

In the judgment, God will take into account what we did and what we should have done and did not do. Jesus taught this lesson in the parable of the sheep and the goats (Matt. 25:31–46). Ellen White wrote, “We need not go to Nazareth, to Capernaum, or to Bethany, in order to walk in the steps of Jesus. We shall find His footprints beside the sickbed, in the hovels of poverty, in the crowded alleys of the great city, and in every place where there are human hearts in need of consolation. In doing as Jesus did when on earth, we shall walk in His steps.” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1898), 640.)

God calls upon His people to live like Enoch, who pleased God and was the first to receive his heavenly building: “By faith Enoch was taken away so that he did not see death, ‘and was not found, because God had taken him’; for before he was taken he had this testimony, that he pleased God” (Heb. 11:5, emphasis supplied; cf. Gen. 5:21–24).

` `