---
title:  God’s Special Agreement
date:   16/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week’s lesson
Nehemiah 10:1–29; Genesis 9:16; Joshua 24; Nehemiah 10:30–39. 

> <p>Memory verse</p> 
> “ ‘Because of all these things, we are making an agreement that cannot be changed. We are putting this agreement in writing. Our leaders, Levites, and priests [religious leaders] are signing their names to this agreement and sealing [closing] it with a seal [mark]. . . . We all promise that we will take care of the Temple of our God’ ” (Nehemiah 9:38; Nehemiah 10:39, ERV).

**WHAT DOES THE BIBLE MEAN** when it talks about a “covenant”? The best explanation for a Bible covenant is a legal agreement between God and His people. In this agreement, God says, “You are My people. I am your God.” In Bible times, we find many covenants. Often these covenants were between leaders and the people who served them. 

Covenants were helpful. They showed what a leader promised to do for his people. Covenants also showed what the leader expected his people to do. But when God makes a covenant, things are different. God does not get anything from the Covenant. He promises to keep the Covenant, even when the people break it. What happened when the people broke God’s Covenant? Then God punished His people with the curses written in the agreement. So, the people knew when they broke the Covenant. Bad things started happening.

This week, we will look at the Covenant that the Jews made with God in Nehemiah 10. It was not really a new covenant at all. It was the one God made with His people long ago. 

_The people knew when they broke the Covenant. Bad things started happening._