---
title: 'The Bible Teaching About Special Agreements'
date: 17/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about God’s Covenant, or Special Agreement, with His people in Nehemiah 10:1–29. Then read Nehemiah 9:36–38 again. Who makes this Covenant? Why do they agree to it?`

True, only the leaders write their names on the Special Agreement. That means they agree to keep it. But the Bible clearly shows us that “the rest of the people” (Nehemiah 10:28, ERV) “now make this special promise to God” (Nehemiah 10:28, ERV). The “people promise to follow the law of God” (Nehemiah 10:28, ERV). Do you see that all the people want to make this agreement? Why do they all want to do that? What is so powerful about this Covenant that makes everyone agree to it? For the answer, we must study the Bible’s idea about Special Agreements.

The Covenant, or Special Agreement, was important. It was part of God’s story. This story shows how God saves sinners. The Covenant also shows that God wants to be close to His people. The Covenant allows God’s people to show Him how much they want to serve Him too.

Genesis 1 and 2 show us that God made humans. These chapters also show us that God was close to humans. We see how close Adam and Eve were to each other too. But sin changed everything. Sin brought death.

Adam’s sons choose between God and sin. Cain chooses evil (Genesis 4:8–19). Seth chooses to follow God (Genesis 5:3–24). Cain’s future son is named Lamech (Genesis 4:17–19). Lamech starts polygamy. Polygamy is the sin of having more than one wife. Cain’s future children use force to hurt people and take what they want. Seth’s future children include Enoch. Enoch “walked [obeyed] with God” (Genesis 5:24, KJV). So, God takes Enoch to heaven.

Sadly, the human family chooses evil more than it chooses God. A time comes when God does not have many people left on the earth who follow Him. Soon, there may not be any people left that follow God at all. God needs a family who is loyal to Him on the earth. God will save this family. Then God can keep His promise to send a special Child to this earth. This Child will be born from this loyal family. The special Child will save humans from sin. So, God saves Noah and his family. Then God sends the Flood. The Flood is the only way for God to save humans from being fully destroyed by sin (Genesis 6:11–13).

_The Flood is the only way for God to save humans from being fully destroyed by sin._