---
title:  SPECIAL AGREEMENTS IN HISTORY
date:   18/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

God sends the Flood. Then God starts again His plan to save humans from sin. Now God works with Noah and the people who come after him. God wants to be close to His people. God’s Covenant, or Special Agreement, is an important part of His plan to be close to the human family again. The Bible shows us seven important Covenants that God made with His people:

- 1st Covenant: with Adam (Genesis 1–3)
- 2nd Covenant: with Noah (Genesis 6–9)
- 3rd Covenant: with Abraham (Genesis 12:1–3)
- 4th Covenant: with Moses and the Israelite nation. This covenant also is named the “Covenant from Sinai” or “Moses’ Covenant” (Exodus 19–24)
- 5th Covenant: with Phinehas (Numbers 25:10–13)
- 6th Covenant: with David (2 Samuel 7:5–16)
- 7th Covenant: the New Covenant (Jeremiah 31:31–34)

`Read these verses: Genesis 9:16; Genesis 17:7; Isaiah 55:3; and Hebrews 13:20. What is meant in these verses by the words the “agreement that never ends” (Hebrews 13:20, ERV)?`

The Bible uses the words the “agreement that never ends” 16 times. Thirteen of these times talk about the Covenants, or Agreements, with Abraham, Israel at Mount Sinai, and David. Each of the Covenants above are different from each other in many ways. But one thing about them is the same. All of them are Agreements that never end. The 1st Covenant that God makes with Adam shows God’s love for sinners. Each Covenant that comes after the 1st one shows us something more about the idea of God’s love. Each Covenant that comes next deepens our understanding of the 1st Covenant. The rest of the Covenants help explain the 1st one better.

The Old Covenants and the New Covenant have four parts:

1.	**God makes us holy**. “ ‘I will put my teachings in their minds. And I will write them on their hearts’ ” (Jeremiah 31:33, ICB; also read Hebrews 8:10).
2.	**God brings us close to Him again**: “ ‘I will be their God. And they will be my people’ ” (Jeremiah 31:33, NIrV). 
3.	**God tells us His plan**: (Jeremiah 31:34; Hebrews 8:11).
4.	**God forgives us from sin and makes us new**: (Jeremiah 31:34; Hebrews 8:12).

_God made His second covenant with Noah._