---
title: 'The Different Parts Of A Covenant Or Agreement'
date: 19/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Covenants, or Agreements, were an important part of life in Bible times. Bible thinkers teach that most Bible covenants have the same basic parts. We see these basic parts in covenants made by the Hittite people in Bible times too. What does this information tell us? It tells us that God chooses to communicate with His people in a way they will understand best for their time.

The covenants in Old Testament times had six basic parts: (1) a beginning. This part announces who God is. (2) A record of history. This part shows the things that happened in the past between God and His people. (3) Laws or rules. (4) Blessings and curses. (5) The witnesses. And (6) proof that God will keep His promises. This part also can include special things God asks His people to do. 

Now that we know these parts, we can understand the Bible better. It is easy to see that the whole book of Deuteronomy has these six basic parts. The book starts with Moses inviting God’s people to accept God’s agreement. Then we see: (1) the beginning of Israel’s agreement with God (Deuteronomy 1:1–5); (2) a record of Israel’s history (Deuteronomy 1:6–4:43); (3) God’s laws for His people (Deuteronomy 4:44–26:19); (4) blessings and curses (Deuteronomy 27–30); and (5) witnesses (Deuteronomy 30:19). Finally, (6) we see the special commands God gives His people (Deuteronomy 31:9–13).

`Read Joshua 24. This chapter also shows us the six parts of a covenant. What are they?`

God’s Covenant with Joshua in Joshua 24 also has these six parts. In the 1st part, the covenant starts with God saying who He is. He tells Joshua that He is “ ‘The Lord, the God of Israel’ ” (Joshua 24:2, ERV). In the 2nd part, Joshua tells the people to remember everything God did for them in the past (Joshua 24:2–13). In the 3rd part, Joshua announces God’s laws (Joshua 24:14, 15, 23). Then in the 4th part, Joshua announces the blessings and curses (Joshua 24:19, 20). In the 5th part, Joshua names the witnesses of the agreement (Joshua 24:22, 27). Finally, in the 6th part, Joshua puts a big stone under a tree. This stone proves that God will keep His agreement with His people (Joshua 24:25, 26). God uses this covenant to help His people remember that He led them in the past. God also shows His people their part in the agreement.

_Joshua puts a big stone under a tree. This stone is proof that God will keep His agreement with His people._