---
title:  PROMISES
date:   20/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`What four things do the Israelites promise to do as part of their Covenant, or Agreement, with God? For the answer, read Nehemiah 10:30–39.`

The people promise to do four things:

1. They promise not to marry anyone who worships false gods.
2. They promise to keep the Sabbath holy. They will not do business on the Sabbath.
3. They promise to take care of the poor. They agree to free all slaves after seven years. At that time, the Jews also promise not to make the ex-slaves pay back the money they borrowed.
4. They promise to support God’s temple with their offerings.
   
**The 1st three promises show us how the Jews wanted to be fair to each other. The last promise shows that they want to honor God.**

The Jews want to show that they support the covenant. Their promises show that they want to build ties with God and each other. They are not perfect all the time. But they understand that the things they do now can make a big difference in the future. So, they want to do what is right. If they do these things, then God will bless them. They feel that keeping the Sabbath holy and taking care of the temple will help them move in the right direction.

Sadly, not all the people keep their promises. (Look at the last chapters in Nehemiah.) Yes, some people failed to keep the promises. But many people did keep them. God can help us to have good habits. He can give us strength to do the right thing.

`“We must choose to do what is right. God can change our whole lives if we let Him. So, give your heart to Jesus. Choose to serve Him. Then He will become your Friend and Helper. He has more power than all the kingdoms that rule on the earth. Jesus will help you to stay firm and strong. He will help you to give yourself to Him every second of your life. Then you will have His power to live a new life. It is the life of faith.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 48, adapted. How can you have the same experience you read about here? What is in your way?`

_With God’s help we can form good habits._