---
title:  THE TEMPLE
date:   21/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Look at Nehemiah 10:32–39 again. As these verses show, why is the temple important for the faith of the Jews?`

The Jews promise to take care of the temple. True, they are a small group. They do not have a lot of money. The Persian kings make them pay a lot of taxes. But the people decide to give what they can to help the temple. The law commands the Jews to pay 1/3 of a shekel to the temple. A shekel is a coin. The law says that the people only need to pay the shekel during the time of the census. The census is the time when the leaders count the number of people in the different family groups in Israel. But the Jews decide not to wait for the census to happen. They decide to pay 1/3 of a shekel to the temple every year. Why? Because the people see the need to do more for the temple than the law asks. Also, different families are responsible for bringing firewood to the temple. The wood is used for the fire on the altar. The people see that someone needs to be put in charge of the families and the firewood. If not, the families may stop bringing wood soon. Then the fire will die out.  

The people also give the Levites 10% of everything they earn. Then the Levites give 10% of this money to the priests, or religious leaders.

We see that the temple is the most important part of the lives of God’s people. It was awful when Nebuchadnezzar came from Babylon. He destroyed the temple. He stole its holy objects. That was a sad time for the Jews. 

We also see that the temple gives strength to the spiritual lives of God’s people. It shows them God’s plan for solving the sin problem: the death of a lamb. When Jesus died on the cross, God showed us His answer to the sin problem (Romans 5:5–10). So, the temple shows God’s people His plan to end evil and sin forever. The temple shows God’s whole plan to save humans. We can learn many lessons from studying God’s temple. It helps us to see God’s love. It shows us what God does right now to save us.

`“What I say is true, and you should fully accept it: Christ Jesus came into the world [earth] to save sinners. And I am the worst of those sinners” (1 Timothy 1:15, ICB). What was Paul’s hope? How can it become ours?`

_The temple shows the Jews God’s plan for solving the sin problem: the death of the Lamb of God._