---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   22/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**Additional thought**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “Consecration,” pages 43–48, in Steps to Christ.

“The work in God’s house has two parts. The priests, or religious leaders, work daily in the Holy Room. Then one time a year, the high priest, or chief religious leader, does a special work in the Most Holy Room. On that day, he cleans all the sin out of God’s house. Every day, the sinner brings a live animal to the door of God’s house. The sinner shows he is sorry for his sins. He puts his hand on the animal’s head. The sinner confesses his sins. This act is a word picture. It shows us that the man put his sins on the innocent animal. Then the animal is killed. Paul tells us: ‘The law says that almost everything must be made clean by blood. Sins cannot be forgiven without a blood sacrifice [death of an innocent animal]’ [Hebrew 9:22, ERV]. ‘This is because the life of the body is in the blood.’ Leviticus 17:11 [ERV]. Humans broke God’s law. The law says that anyone who breaks the law must die. The blood shows us the life of the sinner. The sinner’s guilt is put on the innocent animal. Then the priest carries the animal’s blood into the Holy Room. There, he sprinkles some blood on the front of the curtain. This curtain separates the Holy Room from the Most Holy Room. God’s ark is behind this curtain. In the ark is the law the sinner broke. This word picture shows us how the priest takes sin from the sinner to God’s house. The priest carries the sin into God’s house by the blood of an innocent animal. Sometimes, the priest does not take the blood into the Holy Room. The priest eats the meat from the animal. Moses told the sons of Aaron the High Priest to eat it. He said, ‘That meat is very holy! God gave it to you to carry away the guilt of the people— to make the people pure [clean] before [in front of] the Lord.’ Leviticus 10:17 [ERV]. So, the priest eats the meat or brings the blood into God’s house. Both of these actions are word pictures. They show us how the high priest moves sin from the sinner to God’s house.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 418, adapted.  

**Discussion questions**:

`1. How does understanding God’s love bring us close to Him? How does it help us to live as we should?`

`2. Why do we need Jesus’ blood to save us?`

_“The priest carries the sin into God’s house by the blood of an innocent animal.”_