---
title:  Babylon Is Fallen
date:   18/06/2018
---

However corrupt and far-reaching the influence of Babylon has been in the world, the book of Revelation teaches that one day it will all end.

`Read Revelation 18:1-10. What do these verses tell us about “Babylon the great”?`

The second angel’s message (Rev. 14:8) about the fall of Babylon is repeated here, in Revelation 18:2. It is an expression of just how corrupt this entity has become.

“The Bible declares that before the coming of the Lord, Satan will work ‘with all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness;’ and they that ‘received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved’, will be left to receive ‘strong delusion, that they should believe a lie.’ 2 Thessalonians 2:9-11. Not until this condition shall be reached, and the union of the church with the world shall be fully accomplished throughout Christendom, will the fall of Babylon be complete. The change is a progressive one, and the perfect fulfillment of Revelation 14:8 is yet future”. — Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy , pp. 389, 390.

Whether that “perfect fulfillment” has now come, only God knows. But what we do know is that, according to these texts, spiritual Babylon will one day face the judgment of God because of her great evil. “For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities” (Rev. 18:5) . This expression reflects language from the Old Testament about ancient Babylon as well (Jer. 51:9), and means that a time of judgment is sure to come.

This coming judgment, of course, shouldn’t be surprising. After all, Babylon of old faced judgment (see Daniel 5). Scripture in numerous places is very clear that one day everyone will have to answer for their deeds, including Babylon. How comforting to know that as Christians, we have an Intercessor in that judgment who will stand for us (1 John 2:1; Dan. 7:22). Otherwise, our fate might not be much better than that of Babylon’s.

`How can you take comfort in the promise that all the injustice and iniquity that seem to go unpunished now will one day face final retribution by God?`
