---
title:  The Standing Dead
date:  19/11/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 20:11–21:1**

**The Standing Dead**

The focus of this week’s lesson is Revelation 20:12: “And I saw the dead, small and great, standing before God, and books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the Book of Life. And the dead were judged according to their works, by the things which were written in the books” (emphasis supplied).

The immediately preceding and succeeding contexts of this verse indicate that it is describing the millennial judgment of the wicked in heaven. Revelation 20:5 affirms that all the wicked will be dead on earth during this judgment: “The rest of the dead did not live again until the thousand years were finished” (NKJV). So the question is, How can dead people stand before God in judgment in heaven while they are dead on earth?

Some of those who believe in the immortality of the soul claim that it is the immortal souls of the wicked that will stand in judgment before God. This is reading into the text what is not there. Furthermore, the text does not say that the dead stood before God after they resurrected. The text explicitly states that the dead stood before God.

The judgment process of the wicked during and after the millennium will follow the same three-step process as the judgment of the righteous dead had done before (see Week 08). First, the heavenly court in heaven will review their life records in the books. Second, based on the evidence, the heavenly jury will pronounce the verdict and sentence. Finally, the sentence will be executed in the lake of fire after the thousand years. So let’s begin our study on the standing dead.

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 20:11–21:1 from the translation of your choice. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `