---
title:  Three Stages
date:  20/11/2022
---

#### inGest

As we pointed out in Week 08, the judgment of the righteous before the millennium follows a three-step process:

`The judgment review in heaven before      the Second Coming (Rev. 14:6, 7; Dan. 8:14).`

`The announcement of the verdict and sentence      in heaven (Rev. 22:11).`

`The implementation of the verdict (the      reward) when Jesus returns to earth (Rev. 22:12).`

The judgment of the wicked during and after the millennium will follow the same three-step process. Before the process begins, however, Jesus will return to earth in power and glory. Revelation 6:14–17 describes the second coming of Jesus, when every mountain and island will be moved out of its place (not be found) and the wicked will cry out for the mountains and rocks to fall on them to hide them from the face of the One who is seated on the throne. Revelation 20:11 further describes the Second Coming, where there is One sitting on a throne before whose face heaven and earth find no place. The brightness of Christ’s coming will destroy the wicked, and they will remain dead for one thousand years (2 Thess. 1:7, 8; Rev. 20:5). The three-step process will then begin:

The      Millennial Review: At the Second      Coming, the faithful martyrs will come to life (Rev. 20:4, 5), and they,      along with the redeemed of all ages (1 Cor. 6:1–3), will participate with      Jesus in the heavenly millennial judgment. During this judgment, the      wicked dead will stand before God’s judgment bar, not in person but      through the record of their lives (Rev. 20:12, 13). It is in this sense      that the dead stand before God.   The      Verdict/Sentence: After the judgment      reviews the lives of the wicked, the heavenly court will pronounce      the verdict and sentence. The redeemed “meted out to the      wicked the portion which they must suffer, according to their works; and      it was written against their names in the book of death.” (Ellen G. White,      Early Writings (Battle Creek, MI: Review and Herald, 1882), 291.)  The      Execution of the Sentence:      The third stage, the execution of the sentence, will take place on      earth after the millennium. The wicked will resurrect and see with their      own eyes the record of their lives, and will confess the justice of their      sentence (Isa. 45:23; Phil. 2:9–11). They will then be cast into the lake      of fire to suffer the second death (Rev. 20:14, 15).

Here is the summary of events from the Second Coming to the destruction of the wicked (Rev. 20:11–15):

`Revelation 20:11: The Second Coming`

`Revelation 20:12: The investigation and      sentencing of the wicked in heaven during the thousand years. The dead      will stand before God, not in person but through the record of their      lives.`

`Revelation 20:13: After the millennium, the      sea and the grave will give up the wicked dead, and they will see with      their own eyes the record of their lives and confess the justice of their      sentence.`

`Revelation 20:14, 15: The sentence will be executed in the lake of fire.`

` `