---
title:  The Second Resurrection
date:  21/11/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Revelation 20:13 describes the resurrection of the wicked after the millennium: “The sea gave up the dead who were in it, and Death and Hades delivered up the dead who were in them. And they were judged, each one according to his works” (emphasis supplied). The expressions “gave up” and “delivered up” are similar to the language of Isaiah 26:19: “Your dead shall live; together with my dead body they shall arise. Awake and sing, you who dwell in dust; for your dew is like the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead” (emphasis supplied).

As with the righteous, the wicked will resurrect with the selfsame character they had in life. They will pick up at the precise point where they left off when they died. God preserved a precise record of their lives on His “heavenly hard drive,” and He will return to them their self-identity without the minutest change. Whereas during the thousand years the wicked dead will appear in judgment through their records, after the thousand years they will live again (Rev. 20:5) and appear in person.

“There are kings and generals who conquered nations, valiant men who never lost a battle, proud, ambitious warriors whose approach made kingdoms tremble. In death these experienced no change. As they come up from the grave, they resume the current of their thoughts just where it ceased. They are actuated by the same desire to conquer that ruled them when they fell.” (Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1911), 664.) Clearly, the wicked not only receive the breath of life but also the precise record of their lives that God preserved on His “heavenly hard drive.”

As we noted in an earlier lesson, the spirit is more than just the breath of life; it is the breath along with the life record and character of the person: “Our personal identity is preserved in the resurrection, though not the same particles of matter or material substance as went into the grave. The wondrous works of God are a mystery to man. The spirit, the character of man, is returned to God, there to be preserved. In the resurrection, every man will have his own character.” (Ellen G. White, Maranatha, 301.)

The wicked will stand before the judgment bar of God for high treason against the government of heaven. Their works will be revealed to them and the irrevocable sentence pronounced: “The whole wicked world stand arraigned at the bar of God on the charge of high treason against the government of heaven. They have none to plead their cause; they are without excuse; and the sentence of eternal death is pronounced against them.” (White, The Great Controversy, 668.) Then the sentence will be executed, when the wicked are cast into the lake of fire to suffer the second death (Rev. 20:11–15).

` `