---
title:  Inside or Outside?
date:  23/11/2022
---

#### inVite

The three-step judgment process has a specific objective—to demonstrate to the entire universe, both to the loyal and the rebellious, that God adjudicated every case correctly. In the pre-Advent investigative judgment, God will prove to the heavenly universe that He has a legal right to take the redeemed to heaven. As the redeemed participate in the heavenly millennial judgment they will agree that God was just and true in condemning Satan, his angels, and the wicked. Finally, the post-millennial judgment of Satan, his angels, and the wicked will persuade them that God was loving, fair, just, and merciful in condemning them to eternal destruction. The prophet Isaiah described this climactic moment of world history: “I have sworn by myself, the word is gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return, that unto me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear” (Isa. 45:23).

Then, and only then, can God destroy sin and sinners and the final enemy, death (1 Cor. 15:27, 28). When the great controversy concludes, the universe will be clean and in perfect harmony. The judgment process will leave no loose ends. No one will blame God for being partial or for the existence of evil.

After the millennium, there will be only two groups, those inside the city of God and those outside. Those inside were saved by grace through faith in the righteousness of Jesus. However, they were judged by their works (Rev. 22:12: Matt. 16:27), because works reveal whether faith is genuine. Human beings are not saved by a bare faith or by works, nor by faith plus works, but by a dynamic faith that works (James. 2:14–26). The “heroes of faith” in Hebrews 11 not only believed but also acted out their faith.

The book of Revelation contrasts those inside the city with those outside: “Blessed are those who do His commandments, that they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter through the gates into the city. But outside are dogs and sorcerers and sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and whoever loves and practices a lie” (Rev. 22:14, 15, NKJV). “He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God and he shall be My son. But the cowardly, unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death” (Rev. 21:7, 8).

We must come to Jesus now and claim Him as our advocate. If we repent of our sins, confess them, and trust His righteousness, He will defend us in the judgment. At death or the close of probation, however, all cases are decided and there will be no changing sides (1 John 2:1, 2; Heb. 7:26; 4:15).

` `