---
title:  'Husbands and Wives: Together at the Cross'
date:   26/08/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 5:21; Ephesians 5:25–27, 29; 2 Corinthians 11:1–4; Ephesians 5:28–30; Genesis 2:15–25.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Husbands, love your wives the same as Christ loved the church and gave his life for it. He died to make the church holy. He used the telling of the Good News to make the church clean by washing it with water. Christ died so that he could give the church to himself like [the same as] a bride in all her beauty. He died so that the church could be holy and without fault, with no evil or sin or any other thing wrong in it” (Ephesians 5:25–27, ERV).

In Ephesians 5:21–33, Paul talks some more about how Christians must serve and care for each other. Then Paul gives advice to Christian wives (Ephesians 5:22–24) and then to husbands (Ephesians 5:25–32). Finally, Paul ends his talk with some advice for them both (Ephesians 5:33).

How do we, as Christians today, understand Paul’s advice? We understand that God wants to make our friendships and family connections new. But Jesus wants to make us new first. This heart change will change all our family connections and friendships. Paul is excited about this change from the old life before Jesus (Ephesians 4:22) to the new life with Him (Ephesians 2:15). When Jesus comes into our hearts, our lives change. We give our lives to Jesus, and His Holy Spirit takes control of us (Ephesians 2:22; Ephesians 3:16; Ephesians 5:18–21; Ephesians 6:17, 18). We live for Jesus and obey Him (Ephesians 4:13, 15, 20–24, 32; Ephesians 5:2, 10, 17, 21–23). This new life is part of God’s plan for the human family.