---
title:  Advice to Wives
date:   27/08/2023
---

`What does Paul mean when he tells church members to serve or obey each other? How do we understand this idea? Read Ephesians 5:21 for the answer.`

Christians must serve each other because of Jesus (compare Mark 10:42–45; Romans 12:10; Philippians 2:3, 4). Jesus’ love for us is the reason we help other people. Our friendship with Jesus is the most important connection we have. When we put Jesus first, He helps us to know how to love and care for everyone else.

Paul also tells Christian wives to obey their husbands (also, read 1 Peter 3:1, 5). What does Paul mean when he says that a wife must obey her husband the same as Jesus? Ephesians 6:7 helps us answer this question. In this verse, Paul tells slaves to serve their masters as if they were serving Jesus and not men. Colossians 3:18, also, is helpful: “Wives, obey your husbands. This is what the Lord wants you to do” (NLV). So, these verses help us understand that Jesus is the most important Person. As Christians, wives must honor Jesus above their husbands if their husbands ask them to do something that Jesus doesn’t want them to do.

In Colossians and Ephesians, we learn that Jesus, and only Jesus, is the Head or Top Leader of the church. The church is the same as Jesus’ body (Ephesians 1:22; Ephesians 5:23; Colossians 1:18). “A husband is the head of his wife, just as Christ is the head of the church. Christ is the Savior of the church, which is his body” (Ephesians 5:23, ERV). The church obeys Jesus. This example helps us understand how the wife must obey her husband. We must be careful not to misunderstand this verse. The Bible commands a wife to obey her husband. The Bible commands the husband to love and care for his wife. This command doesn’t allow a husband to hurt his wife or hit her. The Bible isn’t asking a wife to obey a husband who hurts her in any way.

`Why is this advice about when to obey so important to remember? What if a husband is “a mean, nasty, loud, and controlling man who is full of himself? Then this man should never say that the husband is the boss, and the wife must do whatever he says. This man is not the Lord. This man doesn’t know what the word ‘husband’ really means.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, page 117, adapted.`