---
title:  'The Church as Jesus’ Bride: Part 1'
date:   28/08/2023
---

`Compare Ephesians 5:25–27, 29 with the story in Ezekiel 16:1–14. What parts of the story in Ezekiel does Paul share in Ephesians 5:25–27, 29?`

In Ephesians 5:25–27, 29, Paul uses the word picture of a wedding or marriage to explain Jesus’ love for the church. Jesus is the Bridegroom from heaven who:

**1. Loves the church.** The church is the same as Jesus’ bride (Ephesians 5:25). We must always remember that Jesus loves us the same as a husband loves his wife.

**2. Gives Himself as a wedding gift.** In Bible times, the bridegroom “bought” the bride with a large amount of money and goods. This gift of money and goods was named the “bride price.” Jesus paid the biggest price of all for the church because He died for us (Ephesians 5:25).

**3. Bathes His bride.** In Bible times, the bride’s helpers and her female family members helped the bride get ready for her wedding. In Paul’s picture story, the Bridegroom Jesus helps His bride get ready for the wedding! How? Jesus makes His bride clean and holy. He washes away her sin with water when she is baptized (Ephesians 5:26).

**4. Remembers and says God’s promise.** Jesus also cleans His bride with the “word” (Ephesians 5:26). The “word” is a word picture for God’s promise. Jesus makes this promise to the bride when He marries her (compare Ephesians 1:3–14; Ephesians 2:1–10). This promise is the same as the promise God makes to Christians when they give their lives to Him. Wedding engagements and promises in Bible times included contracts or written agreements. These contracts said how much the husband must pay and how much the bride would bring to the marriage from her family.

**5. Gets the bride ready.** When the bride is finally given to her Groom, she is very beautiful (Ephesians 5:27). Jesus not only washes the bride but also gives the bride clothes to wear and helps her get ready, too.

`How does Ephesians 5:25–27, 29 help us understand the way that Jesus feels about us? Why is this thought so comforting?`