---
title:  'The Church as Jesus’ Bride: Part 2'
date:   29/08/2023
---

`How does Paul use the word picture of a wedding to help Christians understand Jesus’ love for them? When does Paul say that the bride is given to the Bridegroom? Read 2 Corinthians 11:1–4 for the answer.`

In Ephesians 5:25–27, Paul says that Jesus is the One who gives the bride to Himself! In weddings during Bible times, the groom’s best man or the bride’s father gave the bride to the groom. But a groom never gave the bride to himself! Paul shows us a different picture. Jesus is the One who gives the church, His bride, to Himself.

Paul uses marriage as a word picture to help us understand this love that Jesus has for His church:

**1. Engagement.** Jesus offered Himself for the church as the “bride price” or the gift He needed to pay so that He could “marry” her. When Jesus paid this price, He became “engaged” to His bride, the church (Ephesians 5:25).

**2. Getting ready for the wedding.** As Bridegroom, Jesus continues to wash and clean His bride to get her ready for Himself (Ephesians 5:26).

**3. The wedding itself.** Jesus gets the bride ready because He wants to give her to Himself at the wedding (Ephesians 5:27). The wedding is a word picture or symbol of Jesus’ second coming. At that time, Jesus will come to get His bride, the church, and give her to Himself (Ephesians 5:27; compare 2 Corinthians 11:1, 2; Colossians 1:21–23, 28).

In Bible times, weddings often included a nighttime parade (read Matthew 25:1–13). The groom and his wedding party met at the groom’s house, where the new couple would live after they got married. Then the parade started. People in the parade carried lights. Other people played music. Everyone was happy and filled with joy. The crowd of people made their way to the home of the bride’s father. The bride joined the parade at her father’s house. Or sometimes she went out to meet the parade on the way to her father’s house. The parade took the engaged couple to their new home. The guests joined them there for a weeklong feast. At the end of the week, the couple got married. At that time, the bride was given to the bridegroom in marriage.

Paul uses this word picture to help us understand the Second Coming. The long engagement between Jesus and His bride will end. Then they will celebrate the wedding.