---
title:  Love Your Wife as You Love Yourself
date:   30/08/2023
---

`What reason does Paul use to encourage husbands to be loving and kind to their wives? Read Ephesians 5:28–30 for the answer.`

Paul gives us a list of rules for the Christian home (Ephesians 5:21–6:9). In Ephesians 5:28–30, Paul has a message for the husband who “hates his own body” (Ephesians 5:29, ICB, also, read Ephesians 5:28). A man who hates himself may start to beat and hurt his wife. In the Roman Kingdom during Paul’s time, the father of the family was very powerful. By Roman law, the father could punish or kill his wife, children, and slaves.

In Ephesians 5:25–27, Paul gives us the most powerful example of love: Jesus’ love for the church. This example gives husbands a new and different model to follow for how to love. Paul asks Christian husbands to love their wives in the same way (Ephesians 5:28) that Jesus loves His bride, the church. Jesus died for the church. Jesus takes care of her every need (Ephesians 5:25–27). Paul asks Christian husbands to stop behaving as non-Christian husbands behave and to match Christ’s love.

In Ephesians 5:28–30, Paul gives Christian husbands a new reason to love their wives: self-love. Paul says, “No person ever hates his own body” (Ephesians 5:29, ICB). Paul doesn’t want Christian husbands ever to beat or hurt their wives. So, Paul invites husbands to remember that they and their wives are joined together as if they were one person. If a Christian husband hurts his wife, he hurts himself. Most people who aren’t crazy don’t do that.

`Paul says that Jesus is an example to both wives and husbands. What can you learn from Jesus about loving the members of your own family?`