---
title:  The Bible’s Model for Marriage
date:   31/08/2023
---

`Study the story in Genesis 2:15–25 about how God made the skies and the earth. What happens in the story before the husband and wife are “joined” and “become one” (Genesis 2:24, ERV)?`

In Paul’s advice to husbands and wives (Ephesians 5:31), he uses a quote from Genesis 2:24. As Paul talks about how life started, he also talks about the needs of Christian churches and the health of the families that belong to these churches. Paul believes Genesis 2:24 is good advice about marriage for all time. God made sex a part of marriage. Sex is a word picture or symbol for the way that the man and wife join and become one in marriage. Their hearts, minds, bodies, and spirits join together.

Paul uses Genesis 2:24 to help us understand better the love between Christian husbands and wives. When Paul chose a quote from Genesis 2:24, he selected a verse about marriage before there was any sin on earth. But we live on an earth filled with sin. Marriages today and in the past often show us ideas about women that are wrong. Some modern ideas about sex say that a woman should be under the full control of a man and serve him the same as a slave. But the Bible doesn’t teach this idea about sex. Paul says that in the beginning God made sex to be about a man and a woman becoming one body, heart, and spirit in marriage. At the same time, the husband doesn’t control the mind and body of the wife. The wife isn’t the husband’s slave. The Bible teaches that in marriage the husband and wife become the same as one body. So, Ephesians 5:21–33 and Genesis 2:24 are important Bible truths that teach us how husbands and wives should behave and love each other in marriage.

In Ephesians 5:32, Paul talks about a “secret truth” (ERV). This secret truth is the wonderful teaching that Jesus’ love for His church helps us understand Christian marriage, and Christian marriage helps us understand Jesus’ love for His church. When we compare Christian marriage to Jesus’ love for the church, we understand better how husbands and wives should love each other. We also understand better how much Jesus loves us!

`How does Ephesians 5:33 help you understand the important rules in Ephesians 5:21–32? How can you follow these important rules in your marriage?`