---
title:  Additional thought
date:   01/09/2023
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Responsibil-ities of Married Life,” Testimonies for the Church, volume 7, pages 45–50, and “Mutual Obligations,” The Adventist Home, pages 114–120.

Ellen G. White tells husbands and wives to stop trying to control each other. She writes, “Don’t try to force each other to do what you want. You can’t do this thing and expect the other person to continue to love you. Be loving and patient, caring and nice to each other.”—The Adventist Home, page 118, adapted.

Ellen G. White talks about the meaning of Colossians 3:18 and Ephesians 5:22–24. She says, “People often ask the question, ‘Does a wife have freedom to choose what she wants to do in a marriage?’ The Bible says that the husband is the head or the leader of the family. ‘Wives, obey your husbands’ [Colossians 3:18, WE]. If Paul ended the command here, then we can say that most women would not want to be wives. . . . Many husbands stop at the words, ‘Wives, obey.’ But we must read to the end of the whole command Paul gives, which is: ‘Wives, obey your husbands. This is the right way to live when you belong to the Lord’ [Colossians 3:18, WE]. God wants the wife to respect and praise God always. The wife must serve and obey Jesus with her whole heart. Jesus is the only One she can serve and obey in this way. Jesus bought her as His own child. He paid for her with His life. . . . One Person is more important and powerful to the wife than the husband. That Person is Jesus. He is her Savior. The wife must serve and obey her husband as “the Lord wants [her] to do” [Colossians 3:18, NIrV].”—The Adventist Home, pages 115, 116, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What if someone said that Ephesians 5:21–33 was old-fashioned advice and Christians no longer needed to follow it? How would you answer?`

`How can the advice in Ephesians 5:21–33 help people who are in difficult marriages?`

`Think some more about the idea of how the husband and wife become “one body” in marriage. How does this idea help us better understand God’s plan for marriage? What must married couples do to protect marriage?`