---
title:  "Eden: The First School"
date:   26/09/2020
---

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

Genesis 2:7–23; Genesis 3:1–6; Genesis 3:4–6; 2 Peter 1:3–11.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘Look, God’s power makes him great [worthy of praise]! He is the greatest [best] teacher of all’ ” (Job 36:22, ERV).

**MOST BIBLE STUDENTS** know the story in Genesis 1–3. This story is about God, Adam, Eve, the angels, and the snake. The story happens in a beautiful garden named Eden. The story starts with God. God makes the earth. Then He makes Adam and Eve. God tells Adam and Eve what to do to stay happy in their perfect home. But Adam and Eve sin. Then God tells Adam and Eve that they must leave Eden. That is the basic story. But we must look closer at Genesis 1–3 and God’s first plan for education. Then we will see more.

“God made the earth. At that time, God gave humans a plan for education. God wanted this plan to be an example for humans for the future too. So, God started a school in Eden. Eden was the home of our first parents. The school in Eden showed God’s important rules about education. The Garden of Eden itself was the schoolroom. The schoolbook was nature. God Himself was the Teacher. Adam and Eve were the students.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 20, adapted.

God started the first school in Eden. God also was in charge of the school and was the Teacher. As we know, Adam and Eve chose to listen to a different teacher. They learned the wrong lessons from Satan. What happened? What can we learn from this story about Adam and Eve’s education that can help us today?

_God started the first school in Eden._
