---
title:  THE FIRST SCHOOL
date:   27/09/2020
---

We do not think about a garden as a classroom, right? But a garden is really a good place for the first school. God filled Eden with all the beautiful things He made. What do you think that Adam and Eve learned from God in that “classroom”? So many things! We do not know the full story about that!

`Read Genesis 2:7–23. What do you see in these verses about why God made Adam? Where did God put Adam? What work did God give Adam to do?`

God made the man and the woman. Then God gave Adam and Eve a home and work. The work helped them feel that their lives were important. This part of the story shows us an example of the best way for a teacher and a student to work together. God is the perfect Teacher. Adam is a student of God. God knows the skills Adam has because God made Adam. God can teach Adam. God also knows that Adam can grow in wisdom. Adam’s skills can grow stronger and better too. Then Adam can become the person that God planned for him to be.

God gave Adam work. But that is not all. God wanted Adam to be happy. Maybe that is why God gave Adam work. You feel happy, too, when someone gives you work, and you do a good job, right? God knew Adam’s heart. God also knew what Adam needed to be happy. So, God told Adam to take care of the Garden (Genesis 2:15). What work did Adam do? We know a life of sin and death. So, we do not understand fully Adam’s work in Eden. Whatever Adam did, the work taught him important lessons.

In Genesis 2:19–23, God makes animals for Adam. These animals are Adam’s friends. God also makes Adam’s wife, Eve. God knows that Adam needs the friendship and help of someone who is his equal and who is the same as him. So, God makes woman. God also knows that man needs to be close to God. So, God makes Adam a beautiful garden home. All these gifts show God’s love for humans and why He made us. As we already said, we do not know the full story about Eden and its beauty. But we can enjoy thinking about it, right?

`True, we are far away from Eden’s beauty. But we can learn lessons from nature. What are some of those lessons?`

_God knows that Adam needs the friendship and help of someone who is his equal and who is the same as him._
