---
title:  The Unwelcome Guest 
date:  28/09/2020
---

What was God’s plan for the first classroom? When we look at Eden, we can see God’s plan. God put a lot of love and care into making Eden a wonderful place for learning. God put beauty all around Adam and Eve. Everything offered Adam and Eve a chance to learn more about life and God.

But then something goes wrong. An unwelcome guest shows up in the garden. The unwelcome guest is the snake. Satan uses the snake to get Adam and Eve to sin. In Genesis 3 we learn that the snake is “more clever than any of the wild animals the LORD God had made” (Genesis 3:1, NIrV). The words “more clever” are different from any words the Bible uses before. In Genesis 1 and 2, the Bible uses the words “very good” (Genesis 1:31, ERV), “not ashamed” (Genesis 2:25, ERV), and “beautiful” (Genesis 2:9, ERV). These words show us the good things God has made. But now in Genesis 3, we see a change in the language when the snake shows up. He is “more clever.” These words also can be written as “more able to fool others than any animal of the field” (Genesis 3:1, NLV). That tells us the snake was very smart and sneaky.

God is completely different from the snake. God is clear about what He wants Adam and Eve to do. Genesis 2:16, 17 show us God’s command to Adam and Eve. God tells them that they must not eat from the forbidden tree.

God’s command shows us something important about this story. God made Adam and Eve free to choose between good and evil. Our freedom to choose is also known as free will. From the start, we can see that God made humans free to choose between right and wrong.

`Read what the snake says to Eve in Genesis 3:1–6. What does Eve think about the forbidden tree after that?`

In Genesis 2, the Lord tells Adam not to eat from the forbidden tree. If Adam does, he will “ ‘for sure die’” (Genesis 2:17, NLV). In Genesis 3:3 Eve tells the snake God’s command. Do you see that she leaves out the words “ ‘for sure’ ”? We see that Eve does not say the command as strongly as God did. In Genesis 3:4, the snake puts God’s words “for sure” back in. But do you see how the snake changes their meaning? So, the snake makes God’s words say something that God did not mean. All this shows us that Eve did not believe God’s words. She believed the snake.