---
title:  Failing To Obey The Message 
date:  29/09/2020
---

As we saw yesterday, Eve did not believe God’s words. True, Eve did not misunderstand God’s command. But she did not say it as strongly as God did when she told it to the snake. Awful things happened because of Eve’s disobedience.

So, we see that Eve tells the snake God’s command about the trees in the garden. But she does not say God’s words exactly the way God says them (Genesis 3:2, 3). Of course, God’s message is not anything new to the snake. The snake already knew about God’s command. He was ready to change it and lead Eve into sin.

`Read Genesis 3:4–6. Do you see that the snake lies about what God said? What else does the snake say that Eve believes? How does the snake trick her into believing him and not God?`

The snake tells Eve that part of God’s message is not correct. Eve does not go to God to ask Him about it. That is what Eve should do. Eve had the chance to do that. God is her Mighty Teacher. In Eden she spoke with God face-to-face. But Eve does not run away from the snake. She does not go to God and ask for His help. Eve accepts the snake’s message. She doubts God’s words to her.

Soon after, Adam himself must make a difficult decision. “Adam understands that Eve has sinned against God’s command. Eve failed to obey the one thing that God asked them not to do. It was a test of their loyalty and their love. Adam fought a war in his mind. He was sorry that he allowed Eve to wander from his side. But she made her choice. Now Adam must separate from the one who made him so happy. How can he live without her?”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 56, adapted. Sadly, Adam chose to do the wrong thing too. What made his behavior worse? Adam knew better.

`Think of the snake’s lying words. He says that if Adam and Eve eat the forbidden fruit they will “be like [very much the same as] God” (Genesis 3:5, NKJV). But didn’t Genesis 1:27 say that Adam and Eve were already very much the same as God? What does this comparison teach us about how we are easily tricked? Why are faith and obedience the only things that can keep us safe from the danger of Satan’s lies?`