---
title:  GETTING BACK WHAT ADAM AND EVE LOST
date:   30/09/2020
---

As we saw, Adam and Eve accepted the snake’s message. How did God punish them? One of the things that happened was that God made them leave their Eden home. Eden was their classroom too. Adam and Eve lost heir home and school because of sin. That loss helps us to understand God’s plan for education for us today. Life on earth is now spoiled by sin. So, that gives us a new reason for more education.

What was God’s plan for education before the Fall? God wanted to teach Adam and Eve about Him, His law, and His love. After sin, God’s plan for education included helping humans to know Him again. ducation also is about helping God to live in us. True, we no longer can see God face-to-face. But as God’s children, we can learn more about Him and His love. Prayer, serving God, and studying the Bible help us to become friends with God as Adam and Eve were in Eden.

There is good news. Because of Jesus and His plan to save sinners, we have hope. We have hope that Jesus will save us and give us new hearts. Christian education should lead students to Jesus. Teachers should teach students about Jesus’ promise to make all things new again.

`Read 2 Peter 1:3–11. These verses encourage us when we think about everything Adam and Eve lost when they sinned. God wants His Spirit to live in our hearts. He also wants to make us the same way Adam and Eve were before the Fall. What does Peter say that we must do to change?`

Jesus gives us “everything we need to live and to serve God” (2 Peter 1:3, ICB). Wow! This is a powerful promise. What do you think Jesus gives us? Peter gives us a list: faith, a holy life, knowledge, self-control, not giving up, and so on. Do you see that knowledge is on Peter’s list? True education will lead us to true knowledge: the knowledge about Jesus. True education will help us become the same as Jesus in our hearts. Then we also can share our knowledge about Jesus with other people.

`Think about this: the forbidden tree was named “the tree that gives knowledge about good and evil” (Genesis 2:9, ERV). What should that tell us about why some knowledge is not good? How can we know what is good knowledge and what is bad knowledge?`

_Prayer, serving God, and studying the Bible help us to grow close to God as Adam and Eve were in Eden._
