---
title:  PEOPLE WHO DO NOT RESPECT THEIR LEADERS
date:   01/10/2020
---

Some people are “natural students” in the classroom. They do not need to study much to make excellent grades. They learn fast. They remember what they learn. 2 Peter 1 and 2 show us it does not matter how smart you are when you enter the School of Jesus. He gives everyone the same chance to learn.

2 Peter 1 encourages us. But 2 Peter 2 is a warning.

`Read 2 Peter 2:1–17. What is Peter saying in these verses? At the same time, what hope do we find in this warning?`

Do you see what Peter writes in 2 Peter 2:10 about people who do not respect leaders and people in power? Peter’s words are important for our day too. We as a church body must work with our leaders (read Hebrews 13:7, 17, 24). God asks us to respect our leaders and obey them. Of course, our leaders must be loyal to the Lord too.

At the same time, Peter offers us hope (2 Peter 2:9). Peter says that it is true that the Lord will not accept people who choose to believe lies. But “the Lord knows how to save those who serve him” (2 Peter 2:9, ICB). This verse helps us to see that part of our education as Christians is learning how to avoid Satan’s traps. At the same time, our education also includes learning about the many ways that God can make us free and protect us from people who tell lies. “These people will work in secret ways to bring false teaching to you” (2 Peter 2:1, NLV). The Bible says that our not respecting our leaders is wrong. So, our education as Christians also should include learning the right way to obey our leaders (Hebrews 13:7, ERV), right?

Now we really should not say that Adam and Eve hated God or did not respect His power. But in the end, they chose to not obey God’s law. What made their sin so bad was they chose not to trust God’s Word. God told them not to disobey Him for their own good.

`Think more about showing respect for people in power. Why is using power in the right way and obeying it in the right way, too, so important?`

_Our education as Christians includes learning how to avoid Satan’s traps._
