---
title:  Further Thought
date:  02/10/2020
---

“Adam and Eve were God’s children. They also were His students. The God who made them was also their Teacher! Angels visited Adam and Eve. The couple was allowed to talk with God. Nothing blocked their view of God. Adam and Eve were full of health from eating from the tree of life. They were almost as smart as the angels. Nature, with its secrets, taught Adam and Eve many lessons. These “ ‘miracles of God’ ” [Job 37:16, ICB] gave them endless joy. Men have studied nature’s laws for 6,000 years. God explained these laws to Adam and Eve. They studied leaf, flower, and tree. Adam and Eve learned the secrets of the life in each of these things. Adam knew every animal. He knew the mighty whale that swam in the waters. Adam also knew the smallest insect that floats in the sunbeam. Adam gave each animal its name. He knew the habits and behavior of each one. Our first parents studied anything in nature they wanted. They learned about the stars and the many different planets. They also learned “ ‘how the clouds stay up in the sky’ ” (Job 37:16, NIrV). They studied the secrets about light, sound, day, and night. God’s name was written on every forest leaf, on every mountain stone, on every shining star, and in earth, air, and sky. Nature showed Adam and Eve God’s wisdom and power. Adam and Eve always discovered something beautiful that filled their hearts with love and thankfulness.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 50, 51, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`God wanted school and work to be a chance for humans to meet Him and all that He made. Are we following God’s plan in our work today? How can we learn more about God in our jobs? (Our jobs may include the work we do for pay, the time we spend serving God, or as volunteers.)`

`Satan was very sneaky in the Garden of Eden. Just thinking about it can discourage us because it shows us we are very weak. Adam and Eve knew God was close by. But they accepted the snake’s half-truth. We are far away from God. So how can we find strength and help from God to help us fight against sin?`

`Why is it so important to obey our leaders? What happens when people in power hurt the ones they should protect? What should we do when that happens?`