---
title:  The Sin Problem
date:   23/05/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Matthew 5–7

Without a doubt, sin is the greatest obstacle to a close relationship with God. Not only does sin separate us from God now (Isa. 59:2), but it also deceives, hurts, consumes, and eventually destroys us. Our battle against sin and self is the greatest battle we’ll ever face, with tremendous, even eternal, implications.

Some dismiss sin as just a regular part of life. After all, it’s human nature to indulge in pleasure. However, do we make light of sin because society has become so comfortable with it? We can tiptoe around the topic of sin, afraid that we’ll offend someone if we call it what it is, but in the end, the more we choose to live comfortably with it, the further we’ll slip from a healthy relationship with God.

Yes, every person sins, and our thoughts, motives, actions, and words hurt others, ourselves, and God. Ultimately, sin destroys our relationship with God, but God has revealed Himself to us through the knowledge of His law, which shines light on the sin in our lives.

Helping people acknowledge their sinful condition and recognize their need of a Savior was the great burden of Christ’s sermon on the mount. Near the beginning of Jesus’ ministry, there was great excitement to learn what this new Healer would teach. The Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5–7 was Jesus’ opportunity to announce His message and set the tone early for what His ministry would be about. This defining sermon is as relevant today as it was on the day it was preached.

Jesus was speaking to an audience that included many Jews who prided themselves on their religious devotion. Many of them had no doubt that they were the most righteous people on earth. They felt spiritually superior to everybody else and felt secure in their salvation because of their Jewishness and their righteousness (see Matt. 3:9; Rom. 10:3).

Jesus cut through their spiritual pride and confronted their elitist attitude. He exposed their real spiritual poverty and the insufficiency of their own righteousness (Matt. 5:20). Their own righteousness could never save them, and they had to depend on God’s righteousness just like everybody else (Matt. 6:33).

Jesus used the law in a very surprising way. The Jews expected the law to condemn everybody else, but Jesus used the law to show even the scribes and Pharisees that they, too, needed a Savior. In Matthew 5, Jesus quoted repeatedly from the law (Matt. 5:21, 27, 31, 33, 38, 43) to teach the deeper meaning of the law and to show that they were not keeping it. He was very pointed about their issues of hatred, lust, deceit, and selfishness. In Matthew 6, Jesus exposed the superficial, pretentious nature of their religious services they were so proud of. This included demonstrative giving to charities, loud prayers, and showy rituals of fasting. Finally, in Matthew 7, Jesus appealed to them to stop judging everybody else and carefully evaluate the genuineness of their own experience. Christ invited all to earnestly seek God in a new way.

In this groundbreaking sermon, Jesus established the starting point for every person who will be saved, didn’t He? We all must begin by recognizing our own sinful condition and our need of a Savior. We need to allow God’s law to shine a light on our sin and acknowledge that we need cleansing.

This week, let’s explore the role of God’s law in showing us our sins and teaching us to understand better how to rely on Jesus to help us and restore our broken relationship with God.

### inScribe

`Write out Matthew 5:17–20 from the translation of your choice. Read Christ’s whole sermon in Matthew 5–7 and make an outline or mind map of the key points from Christ’s teachings.`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.