---
title: 'Magnifying the Law'
date: 25/05/2026
---

### inGest

The Sermon on the Mount challenges us to look deeper into God’s law and deeper into our own hearts. Many people in His audience prided themselves on their hand washing, their regular prayers and fasting, their tithe paying, etc. They focused on certain externals that made them look good while neglecting more serious heart matters. As Jesus taught the deeper spiritual meaning of the law, He showed them the sins that were hindering their relationship with God. These same issues still challenge our relationship with God today. Consider the words of Jesus:

**“But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment”** (Matt. 5:22). Perhaps you’ve been justifying why you yell at those close to you. How is your anger impacting your relationship with God, not to mention those you’re angry at?

**“But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you”** (Matt. 5:28, 29). To cut off your hand or foot or pluck out your eye because it’s causing you to sin is extreme. It was supposed to be. But this is how seriously Jesus sees sin and its impact in our lives. Ask God to remove the lust from your heart, because this is a barrier to your relationship with God.

**“But I say to you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you”** (Matt. 5:44). Stop hating your enemies. When you feel negatively toward those who mistreat you, it instantly places a barrier in your relationship with God. Instead, start praying for your enemies and see how this changes not just your walk with God but also your relationship with others.

**“Do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do… that they may have glory from men”** (Matt. 6:2). Stop telling everyone how good you are! Be humble, as Jesus was humble.

**“Judge not, that you be not judged. For with what judgment you judge, you will be judged”** (Matt. 7:1, 2). Stop being so critical and judgmental of others. God is the Judge, so let Him be so (1 Cor. 4:5).

These are just a few areas that make us stumble. Jesus magnified the law to show the most religious people that they also stand guilty before God and need a Savior.

**Questions to explore:**

`How do you see your condition before God? How seriously do you take sin?`