---
title:  A Mirror
date:   25/05/2026
---

### inTerpret

The Bible defines sin as “the transgression of the law” (1 John 3:4, KJV). Sin is also wrapped up in our natures (Ps. 51:5; Jer. 17:9). God’s law brings to light what sin really is. The law is like putting on a pair of glasses so we can clearly see what’s really around us or using a mirror to see what we actually look like. It brings clarity and conviction to our lives and our characters, while at the same time telling us about God’s character and what’s important to Him.

The Ten Commandments (Exod. 20:3–17) were written by God’s own finger. Jesus echoed their importance: “‘And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength.’ This is the first commandment. And the second, like it, is this: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ There is no other commandment greater than these” (Mark 12:30, 31). He added: “On these two commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets” (Matt. 22:40). Jesus taught that the law is all about relationships. God gave the law as a safeguard to protect our relationships with Him and with others.

In a similar way to how parents’ boundaries for their child reveal what they value, God’s law tells us about His character and what is important to Him. God gave us His law to protect our relationship with Him and with each other, knowing that His law would guide every aspect of our lives as we grow in Him.

Love for Jesus is at the very center of the law. Jesus said, “If you love me, you will obey my commandments” (John 14:15, NET). When we genuinely love Jesus, we will be naturally compelled to keep His law. When we see His law clearly, we will feel compelled to love Jesus more. Satan has distorted the beauty of God’s law so that some see it as a heavy burden (1 John 5:3). Legalism, rather than love and freedom, is often attached to the law.

However much we believe in the law and in the importance of keeping it, we must always remember that in terms of our legal standing before God, the law only condemns. The law never forgives, never justifies, and never atones. On the contrary, it points out why we need to be forgiven, why we need to be justified, and why we need atonement. That’s why, along with the law, even foundational to our understanding of the law, is the gospel, Christ’s death in our behalf, which does for us what the law can never do: justify us before God.

`Does keeping God’s law restrict you or strengthen you? How can you better understand the law if you think it is restricting you?`

`On a scale of 1 to 5, how precious is the living Word (and the law, as a part of it) to you?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Matthew 5–7. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._