---
title:  Knowing and Doing
date:   27/05/2026
---

### inVite

In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus talks a lot about relationships—with Him and with each other. He says something very poignant toward the end of His message: “Not everyone who says to Me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of My Father in heaven” (Matt. 7:21). Jesus explains that some will call out to Him and clearly know about Him without really knowing Him. Of course, seeking knowledge is important. The Bible tells us that God’s people could be destroyed because they lack a knowledge of God and because they have rejected a knowledge of Him (Hos. 4:1, 6, 10). We should never downplay the importance of timeless biblical truth, but if such knowledge doesn’t change us and deepen our commitment and our walk with God, it’s of no use.

“And this is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom You have sent” (John 17:3). Jesus stated that the prerequisite for entering heaven is to do the will of God and ultimately to know God—for we can’t do His will without knowing Him. This is the defining factor and a very reasonable expectation. If your child says they love you and usually does what you ask, their actions reveal the depth of their love and respect for you. In the same way, when we love God, we’ll want to do His will because we know there is nothing better for us to do! Our response to Him and, ultimately, our obedience to Him as an overflow of our love, show the true nature of our relationship with Him.

Jesus concludes the Sermon on the Mount by leaving His listeners with a poignant final illustration in Matthew 7:24–29. His closing words teach us that our eternal destiny hinges on what we will do with Christ and His teachings. Will we hear His words and do nothing about them? Or will we listen and follow His instructions? Will we allow His words to change us and conform our lives to His teachings?

Jesus invites us to open our hearts and receive Him, so that the blueprint for living in a close relationship with God can be etched upon our very souls with every breath we take. Our lives can be built upon the Rock and God’s perfect plan for us.

This blueprint of a close relationship is no secret. It’s revealed in the pages of God’s inspired Word, and He offers it to every person. It’s each one’s personal choice to accept it by faith, to claim the perfect righteousness of Christ, and then to live out that righteousness.

**Questions to consider:**

`According to Matthew 7:21–23, why do some people have a false assurance of salvation? How can we avoid having a counterfeit assurance of salvation?`