---
title: inQuire
date: 30/05/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it is important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful study discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**The law and sin:**

1. What was Christ’s relationship to the law? Matt. 5:17–19
2. What type of people did Jesus especially confront, that they might acknowledge their sinful condition and need of a Savior? Matt. 5:20
3. How did Jesus give a deeper, spiritual meaning to the law, convicting even the most religious people of sin? Matt. 5:21, 27, 31, 33, 38, 43
4. What is the purpose of the law? Rom. 3:19–23; 4:15; 7:7; James 1:23–25

`Personal reflection: How does popular culture view sin? How should our church respond?`

**The gospel:**

1. Where can we find salvation? Gal. 2:16; 3:13
2. How will love for Christ change my relationship to God’s commandments? John 14:15; 1 John 5:3

`Personal reflection: Has obedience to God’s law been easy or hard in your life? What factors have contributed to this? How can we be faithful to God’s law while avoiding the trap of legalism?`

**Responding:**

1. What is the danger of having a false assurance of salvation while ignoring God’s law? Matt. 7:21–23
2. What comes to those who hear and know Christ’s teachings but fail to follow? Matt. 7:24–27

`Personal reflection: How do you desire to respond to Christ and His teachings?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Our lives are infected with sin, which separates us from God.
- God’s law is a beautiful reflection of His character of love. It shows us our sin and our need of a Savior.
- The law cannot remedy our sin. Only Jesus can save us.