---
title:  Jesus Is First and Most Important in Everything
date:   14/02/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Genesis 1:26, 27; Colossians 1:15–17; Ephesians 1:22; Colossians 1:18.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Christ [Jesus] is as God is. God cannot be seen. Christ lived before anything was made. Christ made everything in the heavens and on the earth. He made everything that is seen and things that are not seen. He made all the powers [angels] of [in] heaven. Everything was made by [with] Him and for Him. Christ was before all things. All things are held together [continue] by [because of] Him” (Colossians 1:15–17, NLV).

This week, we will start our study again of Paul’s letter to the Colossians. We already talked a little about Colossians in Lessons 1 and 2. In Lesson 2, Thursday’s study, we saw that Paul prays for Christians in the city of Colossae (Colossians 1:9–12). In Colossians 1 verses 12 and 13, Paul compares God’s kingdom with Satan’s kingdom. God’s kingdom is compared to light. Satan’s kingdom is compared to the dark. God saved us from Satan’s power. God made us members of His kingdom. Because of Jesus, God the Father also forgives our sins (Colossians 1:13, 14).

Jesus is our God. He made us. This same God saves us. When we believe in Jesus, God removes us from the kingdom of Satan. God makes us members of His family in heaven. God does these things because of everything Jesus did to save us.

This week, we will look at some things in Colossians that Paul says about Jesus. These verses are some of the most beautiful words about Jesus in the whole Bible.