---
title:  Jesus Shows Us Completely Who God Is
date:   15/02/2026
---

When we look in the mirror or at a photo of ourselves, we see a copy of who we are. But a picture is flat. A statue is a better example. An artist can carve a statue of a person out of wood or stone. The statue can give us a better idea than a picture can of how a person looks. But a statue isn’t the same as a living, breathing person. The Bible says that Jesus is a living, breathing copy of God. So, Jesus shows us exactly who God is.

`Read Genesis 1:26, 27; Genesis 5:3; 1 Corinthians 15:49; 2 Corinthians 3:18; and Hebrews 10:1. What do each of these verses talk about? What is a copy? How is a copy very much the same as the thing it is made from? How is Jesus an exact copy of God? At the same time, why is Jesus more than just a copy?`

God made people to be very much the same as He is. We have bodies. We think, feel, and love. We need relationships. God made us this way because we are a copy of Him. At the same time, we are not exactly the same as God. So, we are not a perfect copy of Him. We can show only parts of God. But Jesus helps us to “see” the invisible God. Jesus says, “ ‘Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father too’ ” (John 14:9, ERV). Jesus “is a perfect copy of God’s nature [mind, heart, and spirit]” (Hebrews 1:3, ERV). Jesus says what God thinks. Jesus shows us who God is.

`Why can Jesus show us who the Father is? Read Matthew 11:27 and John 1:1, 2, 14, 18 for the answer.`

Notice other ways that Jesus talks about His relationship with the Father:

- “ ‘My Father never stops working, and so I work too’ ” (John 5:17, ERV).
- “ ‘My Father and I are one’ ” (John 10:30, EASY).
- “ ‘No one can come to my Father unless I take him there’ ” (John 14:6, WE).

Again and again, Jesus also uses God’s name to talk about Himself. God is the “I AM” (read Exodus 3:14, ERV). Jesus says, “ ‘I am the light’ ” of the earth (John 8:12, ERV). “ ‘I am the good shepherd’ ” (John 10:11, ERV). (Also read John 10:14; John 11:25; John 14:11; and John 8:58.)