---
title:  The Son Who is Born First
date:   16/02/2026
---

In the New Testament, the word “firstborn” almost always is used to talk about Jesus (read Luke 2:7; Romans 8:29; Hebrews 1:6; and Revelation 1:5). Today, we use the word “firstborn” to mean a son who is born first. But in the Bible, the word may not mean a son who was born before his other brothers and sisters. That’s because the Bible also uses the word to explain the special relationship a son has with his father. The Bible gives us many examples of young sons who became more powerful than their older brothers. Some examples include Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph.

David is another example of a younger son who became more powerful than his brothers. David had seven brothers. All of David’s brothers were older than he was. But God chose David to be king (1 Samuel 16:10–13). So, God made David the same as His firstborn son. God made David more powerful than any king on the earth (Psalm 89:27). God also tells Moses that Israel is His firstborn son (Exodus 4:22). These verses show us that the word “firstborn” means someone who is more important and powerful than everyone else.

`Read Colossians 1:15–17. What reasons does Paul give for saying that Jesus is the firstborn who is in control of everything in heaven and on earth?`

Paul isn’t saying that God made Jesus before He made anything else. Paul says that Jesus made everything for Himself and with His own power (Colossians 1:16). So, God made the heavens and the earth with Jesus (also read Ephesians 3:9; John 1:1–3; and Revelation 4:11).

When Paul says that Jesus made everything, he means that God made heaven and earth. Jesus made everything we can see and can’t see. Jesus keeps everything alive and working. Jesus has power over everything, including angels (Ephesians 3:10; Ephesians 6:12). Paul says that Jesus was alive before He made everything (Colossians 1:17).

Paul gives another reason for saying that Jesus is the firstborn. Paul says that Jesus joins everything together. Jesus can do this work because He made us and saves us.

`God made us and died for us. Can our good behavior add to this gift? Can our works add to what Jesus already did for us on the cross? Why is this idea so wrong?`