---
title:  Jesus, the Leader of the Whole Church
date:   17/02/2026
---

`Read Ephesians 1:22 and Colossians 2:10. In these verses, Paul says that Jesus is the “head.” What does this symbol mean? What does Paul mean when he says that Jesus “is the head of the church” (Ephesians 5:23)?`

The word “head” is often used as a symbol for the top leader. Both the Old and New Testaments use this symbol many times. Notice the words “head” and “leaders” in the following examples:

1. Exodus 18:25: Moses “chose capable men from all the Israelites. He made them leaders over the people. They were officers over groups of 1,000, 100, 50 and 10 people” (ICB).
2. Numbers 31:26: “Eleazar the religious leader and the heads of the fathers’ houses” (NLV).
3. Deuteronomy 28:13: God will make Israel “leaders, not followers” if they obey Him (NIrV).
4. Isaiah 7:8: “The head of Syria is Damascus and the head of Damascus is Rezin” (NLV).
5. Hosea 1:11: “The people of Judah and the people of Israel will come together again. They will choose a single [one] leader to rule them” (EASY).
6. Micah 3:9: “Listen to me, you leaders of Jacob’s people!” (NIrV).
7. 1 Corinthians 11:3: “The head of every man is Christ” (ERV).

So, Jesus is the head or leader of the church. As the leader, Jesus guides the church. He teaches us and helps us grow. Jesus also gives the church peace. He helps us agree with each other about Bible truth.

`In 1 Corinthians 12:12–27, Paul also talks about the church as a “body.” What does this symbol teach us about the church?`

The body cannot live without the head. In the same way, the church cannot live without Jesus. When part of the body is hurt or lost, life can be hard. Often, we don’t know how important something is until we lose it.

`If you had to lose a leg or an eye, what would you choose? What does your answer tell you about how important each member is to the church?`