---
title:  "Jesus: the Head and the Beginning"
date:   18/02/2026
---

`Paul tells us that Jesus is our head or leader. Jesus also is the “beginning” of everything, because He made everything in heaven and on earth. How are these two ideas connected in Paul’s letter to the Colossians? Read Colossians 1:18 for the answer.`

In the Hebrew language, the words for “head” and “beginning” are connected. The first time the Bible uses the word “beginning” is in Genesis 1:1: “In the beginning God created [made] the sky and the earth” (Genesis 1:1, ICB). Jesus is in control of this earth. He also is the leader of the church.

In the Greek language, the word for “beginning” can mean many things. In Colossians 1:18, “beginning” means that Jesus started the church. That’s why He is its leader. In the same way, all life on earth and in heaven started with Him.

When Jesus woke up from the dead (Romans 6:3, 4), He became the Giver of new life. The penalty for sin is death. But Jesus won the fight against death. So, He has the power to give us new life and new hearts. These ideas help us to understand why Jesus is “the first person who became alive again after death” (Colossians 1:18, EASY). Of course, Jesus wasn’t the first person to wake up from the dead. (Moses was the first. The devil fought with Jesus for Moses’ body [read Jude 9]). But Paul uses the teaching about Jesus’ resurrection to help us understand an important Bible truth. Without Jesus’ resurrection, no one else could wake up from the dead.

Let’s look at all the reasons Paul gives for why Jesus is first and most important in all things:

1. Jesus is a perfect example of the invisible God.
2. Jesus made everything.
3. Jesus was alive before anything was made.
4. Jesus is the leader of the church.
5. Jesus makes us new in Him.
6. Jesus won the fight against sin and death. So, Jesus has the power to wake His people up from the dead.
7. Jesus is in control of the earth.

`What things about yourself must you allow God to change so that Jesus can be in control of your life?`