---
title:  Living in Peace With God
date:   19/02/2026
---

`Read Colossians 1:19, 20. How does the Cross help us to live in peace with God?`

In Colossians 1:19, 20, Paul says, “God chose to put his nature [thoughts, feelings, and behavior] in Christ completely. He decided that Christ would die on the cross as a sacrifice [offering]. In that way, God would bring all things back to Himself. Then everything could live in peace with God. That includes everything on the earth and everything in heaven” (EASY). What exactly is this “nature” that God chose to put in Jesus? John explains. Jesus was filled with “God's grace [mercy, forgiveness, love, and power over sin] and truth” (John 1:14, EASY).

God’s “nature” or grace includes so much more than His love, forgiveness, and His being patient. God’s nature also includes His power to make new things. God can also make old things new again. Most important, God’s grace includes His wisdom. God solved the problems of sin and death. “God loved the people in the world [on the earth] so much that he gave his one and only Son to save them. As a result [because of God’s gift], everyone who believes in the Son will not die. Instead [but now], they will live for ever with God” (John 3:16, EASY).

Jesus needed to die. That is the only way God could save sinners. God loved us so much that He allowed Jesus to die on the cross. God did this thing for us and for everyone in heaven. When Jesus died on the cross, God gave everyone in heaven and on earth proof of His love for sinners. That’s why Paul says, “Everybody in the world [in heaven and on earth] has come to look at us, both people and angels” (1 Corinthians 4:9, EASY).

“The people in heaven watched Jesus hang on the cross. They were amazed and sad. . . . Satan sinned against God. Everyone who joins Satan sins against God. God is love. But His glory [shining beauty] will destroy sinners. To sinners, God is the same as a fire that burns everything up. When the worldwide war between God and Satan first started, the angels didn’t understand this idea. . . .

“But everyone will understand this Bible truth when the worldwide war between God and Satan ends. Then, God’s plan to save sinners will be finished. At that time, all angels and people will understand God’s love and wisdom.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 760, 764, adapted.