---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   20/02/2026
---

“The Father is God. He is filled with mercy, love, and forgiveness. He is invisible to our eyes.

“Jesus shows us the Father completely. The Bible says that Jesus ‘is a perfect copy of God’s nature [thoughts, feelings, and behavior]’ [Hebrews 1:3, ERV].”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism, page 614, adapted.

“Jesus Christ was always alive. No one made Jesus. He was always the Son of God. . . . Jesus talks about His always being alive. He tells us that He always was in close fellowship with the everlasting Father. . . .

“Jesus is the same as God in every way. Jesus has no beginning and no end. He is all-powerful. Jesus is the everlasting Son. Jesus always lived, is alive, and will live forever.”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism, page 615, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think some more about Jesus and how He has always been alive. What if Jesus wasn’t God? What if He wasn’t everlasting? What if God the Father made Jesus? How then could Jesus save sinners if He wasn’t always who He is? Why is this Bible truth about Jesus as the Son of God so important?`

`Think about Jesus, the Good News, and God’s plan to save sinners. These topics include us, but they also touch the lives of the angels and all the people in heaven. Why must we always remember that everyone in heaven also is interested in what happens in the worldwide war between God and Satan? Yes, the Cross amazes us. But the angels and all the people in heaven knew Jesus before He came to this earth. They worshiped Him. He made them. What do you think the angels thought and felt when they saw Jesus on the cross?`

`What would you say to someone who doesn’t believe that the Father and Son always were alive? Why is this idea so important? How would you explain to someone that the Father and the Son always were together (except for a short time at the cross)?`