---
title:  The Mission
date:  11/08/2019
---

**Logos**: Luke 4; John 2:13–17; 5:1–15; Phil. 2:7, 8

**Mary’s Song (Luke 1:46–55)**

Mary was given a great task: She was to be the mother of Jesus. She had to raise the Savior of the world and teach Him how to do simple things, such as eating, walking, and talking. One can only imagine how Mary must have felt. She had a gift from God that came with a responsibility, and as a young mother, she had no easy task. The Bible, however, says in Luke 1:46–55 that Mary praised God. In fact, she glorified His name, for He had blessed her and had “filled the hungry with good things” (verse 53). The Lord brought joy to her body and soul. Mary had a gift, a mission, but that gift came with a responsibility. Today we have that same gift—that same mission—the beautiful gift of knowing Jesus. At the same time, that gift comes with a responsibility to share it with others. It doesn’t matter your race, gender, or financial status, the responsibility to share that gift remains the same.

**His Mission (Isa. 61:1, 2)**

Jesus came to this earth out of love. He came to save, to forgive, and to serve. Jesus was sent to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim freedom for the captives, and to release prisoners from cells of darkness (Isa. 61:1, 2). His mission was to proclaim to everyone that the kingdom of heaven is at hand (Matt. 10:7, 8). When Jesus saves, He redeems every aspect of someone’s life. Even if you were sick, poor, full of sin, or whatever your condition might be, both saving you and changing you into a new person were equally important aspects of His mission. He did all of this through love that came from the Father above, and that is what is sometimes hard to understand.

How is it that an all-powerful God loves me? How is it that He, who created the whole universe, cares about me and whether I am saved or not? God sent His Son to earth with a mission. God wants you to understand that He loves you and would do anything for you to be saved. He says, “Come now, and let us reason together . . . : though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool” (Isa. 1:18). Jesus came to heal us physically and spiritually. He came to heal and free us from our physical and spiritual slavery. Jesus came to serve.

**Jesus Heals (Matt. 12:15–21)**

Being sick is not only hard for the patient but also expensive. In many societies, only those with insurance or with a lot of money can afford proper health care; the rest are left to fight their sickness alone. Jesus healed everyone, not caring whether they were important and not caring whether they had insurance. All Jesus cared about was their faith: if they had faith that He could heal them, He would. Such was the case with the centurion found in Matthew 8:5–13.

The centurion came to ask Jesus to heal his servant, and when Jesus asked whether He should go to the centurion’s house to heal the servant, the centurion answered, “ ‘Lord, I do not deserve to have you come under my roof. But just say the word, and my servant will be healed’ ” (verse 8, NIV). The centurion had faith in Jesus, and he was rewarded for his faith. Jesus also healed a man who was born blind (John 9). People believed he was blind because of the sins of his parents. Jesus healed him and then asked him whether he believed in the Son of man. “ ‘Who is he, sir?’ the man asked. ‘Tell me so that I may believe in him.’ Jesus said, ‘You have now seen him; in fact, he is the one speaking with you.’ Then the man said, ‘Lord, I believe,’ and he worshiped Him” (verses 36–38, NIV). God healed people because they believed He could do so.

**The Cross of Christ (Isa. 53:3–6)**

Jesus came to help those in need. Isaiah 53:3–6 describes what Jesus took upon Himself to help those in need. Jesus was despised and rejected; He took up our pain and suffering so that we wouldn’t have to do it. “But he was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities; the punishment that brought us peace was on him, and by his wounds we are healed” (verse 5, NIV). How can wounds heal us? How can salvation come from someone else’s suffering?

His sacrifice saves us because He lived a life without sin. Jesus showed us that salvation is for all those who believe and for those who accept His cross. When Jesus ascended to heaven, He gave us a mission: “And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come” (Matt. 24:14). His mission was to tell everyone of His Father’s kingdom—He did so by serving others. Jesus was tempted, hurt, and crucified for the entire human race so that we all could be saved. It is our turn to take that mission and, like Simon of Cyrene, carry that cross to tell others about His second coming. Let us reason together, and let us humble ourselves in preparation for His coming.

**React**

`1. Why do we sometimes limit the circle of people we help?`

`2. How can we carry out Jesus’ mission in modern society?`

---

_Miguel Alejandro Patiño Ramirez and Ismael Patiño Ramirez, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_