---
title:  Jesus Was Poor Too—But He Helped!
date:  12/08/2019
---

**Testimony**: Matt. 25:40; 19:21

Jesus equated serving the poor with serving God (Matt. 25:31–40). He invited the poor and other social outcasts into God’s kingdom (Luke 14:15–24). His mission was to give sight to the blind, enable the lame to walk, cleanse the lepers, give the deaf their hearing, raise the dead, and proclaim the good news to the poor (Matt. 11:4–6).

We, likewise, should care for the poor for the following reasons: Jesus will judge us by how we treat the poor. “In placing among them the helpless and the poor, to be dependent upon their care, Christ tests His professed followers. By our love and service for His needy children we prove the genuineness of our love for Him. To neglect them is to declare ourselves false disciples, strangers to Christ and His love.”1

The poor have a claim on our sympathy. “The Lord provides for the widow and the fatherless, not by a miracle in sending manna from heaven, not by sending ravens to bring them food; but by a miracle upon human hearts, expelling selfishness, and unsealing the fountains of Christlike love. The afflicted and bereaved ones He commits to His followers as a precious trust. They have the very strongest claim upon our sympathy.”2

It encourages temperance. “How much means is expended for things that are mere idols, things that engross thought and time and strength which should be put to a higher use! How much money is wasted on expensive houses and furniture, on selfish pleasures, luxurious and unwholesome food, hurtful indulgences! How much is squandered on gifts that benefit no one! For things that are needless, often harmful, professed Christians are today spending more, many times more, than they spend in seeking to rescue souls from the tempter.”3

No matter what our financial situation may be, every disciple of Christ is called to care for the poor with the full force of resources at their disposal. In doing so, we profess our love for God. This is so because everything we already have belongs to God, and He has commanded us to serve!

**React**

`1. Why was Jesus Christ, the King of kings, born so lowly?`

`2. How can the poor have a claim on my hard-earned wealth?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, p. 205.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 202.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., p. 207.</sup>

_Karan Kenneth Swansi, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_