---
title:  Anointed to Reach the Poor
date:  13/08/2019
---

**Evidence**: Luke 4

At the very beginning of His ministry, Jesus went into the synagogue and delivered a message about His purpose in this world, which was to preach and lend a hand to the needy or afflicted across the many aspects of life. He took the scroll of the book of Isaiah and read: “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised” (Luke 4:18).

This passage has a meaningful message. The expression “has anointed” in its Hebrew form מ חַָשׁ) ֩ mashach) is derived from the word messiahַ ( ,( משָׁ יִ֫ח which means “the anointed one.” In Jewish tradition, prophets and kings were anointed through a ceremony that involved pouring oil on their head. The important idea is that God called Jesus and now calls His followers and anoints them in the same way kings and prophets were anointed. This gives Christians authority and responsibility to act according to His will.

Then the task as stated means to preach to the anavim ע נוי) ם ), which refers to the “afflicted” or “meek,” those who are both in spiritual and material poverty; whose hearts are oppressed through a sense of their sins. Finally, Jesus delivers the prisoners and captives—the gospel releases the mind captive under sin; it gives relief and peace.

The biblical account in John 9 narrates the story of Jesus healing a man who was blind from birth. The passage also mentions the “pool of Siloam.” This pool was possibly built in the first century b.c., and its ruins were discovered in 2004. This discovery proves the historicity of the Bible and its teachings. The Hebrew word shiloah means “sent.” It was this same pool where Jesus sent the blind man to be healed (John 9:6, 7). Upon washing, the blind man was then able to see, and he who once was an afflicted person became an anointed man who not only glorified God but, without having seen Him with his own eyes, also testified about His mercy and love. This biblical account demonstrates the effect that divine power has, and sharing this gospel is the task entrusted to Christians.

**React**

`1. As a believer, reflect about your experience with the needy people whom you have encountered in your life.`

`2. Can you think of any examples in the Bible where people took the initiative to help others, expecting nothing in return?`

---

_Miguel Angel Correa Carrion, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_