---
title:  Charity Begins at Home
date:  14/08/2019
---

**How-to**: Matt. 20:28; 2 Cor. 5:14; Rom. 14:7; 1 Tim. 1:6

We may be tempted to show our love to God by doing “big things” for the church. But we express the pure love of Christ by showing heartfelt concern for one another (Matt. 25:35, 40). If God’s love motivates our actions, we will proclaim the gospel by using our gifts and talents to serve others.

Peter gives the best description of the Savior’s earthly ministry in five words: “who went about doing good” (Acts 10:38). Indeed “ ‘the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life a ransom for many’ ” (Matt. 20:28, NKJV). Jesus modeled a life worth living. As Ellen White writes: “Every act of our lives affects others for good or evil.”1 Here are a few suggestions for how to use our talents and gifts to share the light of the gospel with those around us:

Ask God for guidance and strength. When we ask God for guidance, we surrender control of our lives so that we do not do anything through our own power or for our own good, but rather, we do it to glorify God and act to alleviate the problems of others.

Be bold to share your talents. Ellen White, in reflecting upon the person who received one talent, says: “The talents, however few, are to be put to use. The question that most concerns us is not, How much have I received? but, What am I doing with that which I have?”2 Each one of us has been blessed with different gifts and talents for the purpose of ministering (1 Cor. 12:4, 5).

Have a mission. We must be ambitious for the glory of God, determined to overcome all obstacles and fulfill the purpose of our existence to glorify God (1 Cor. 10:31). Jesus had a mission to save the lost, and we should carry on this mission in helping others (Isaiah 58).

Be strong in the Lord. There will always be challenges and temptations when we try to do good deeds. Some people may not support our ministry. They can do horrible acts of cruelty and injustice. But we need to be strong in the Lord. We have the privilege of following Christ’s example through every challenge and triumph to work toward the salvation of others.

**React**

`1. In what ways can we show love to God by ministering to others?`

`2. What challenges can we alleviate that oppress those in our communities?`

---

_Ashley Natasha Odhiambo, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_