---
title:  The God of the Needy
date:  15/08/2019
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 21:12–17

The greatest sermon ever preached by Christ was the life He lived. His interactions with the common person portray how the God of heaven is interested in the life and affairs of each person. The religious teachers failed to accept Jesus as the promised Messiah because He did not meet their expectations to deliver them from Roman bondage. Jesus did not drive the Romans away but, rather, ministered to the people, healed them, and demonstrated compassion even to the poor and oppressed.

Isaiah 58:5–7 talks about how true fasting is more than an outward demonstration but comes with setting free the oppressed and caring for the poor and hungry. From outward appearances, the religious leaders looked pious as they covered themselves with sackcloth and ashes, but they failed to observe the true fast that God desires. The same religious leaders who were supposed to be guardians on behalf of the weak and the poor were, in reality, despising them. The poor and oppressed were left to fend for themselves. These religious leaders had betrayed the trust God had given them. In Matthew 21:12–17, as He entered the temple, Jesus saw all the buying and selling (think of all the animals and birds, and the shouting filling the air). Jesus was furious. He saw how God’s house had become a house of trade, a den of thieves, where cheating and corruption were carried out within this supposedly holy place.

Jesus cleansed the temple. The religious leaders left in fear as those they despised, the sick and poor, now gathered around Jesus. Even the little children sat at His feet. Now the blind, lame, poor, and sick found a place in God’s temple. This simple act of cleansing the temple demonstrated a principle of God’s kingdom—that all have a right to God’s kingdom. Luke 4:18 states that Jesus was anointed by the Spirit to proclaim good news to the poor, to proclaim freedom for the prisoner, to recover the sight of the blind, and to set the oppressed free. We must reach out to the poor in the same way that Jesus did.

**React**

`1. How could the simple act of clearing the temple have had an effect on the religious leaders in contrast to how they treated the poor and oppressed?`

`2. What can we do to follow Christ’s example in reaching out to the poor, oppressed, and overlooked in our communities?`

---

_Ronald Injety, Flaiz Adventist College, Andhra Pradesh, India_