---
title:  'Paul: Apostle to the Gentiles'
date:   24/06/2017
---

**Introduction** Not of Men but of the Light (1 Cor. 11:1; Gal. 1:1)

It was hard for me to believe I was standing, one year ago, in front of my local church to share how God had freed me from entertainment addiction. Now the local church I called mine was in an Arab country, thousands of miles away from home!

**I now felt so different from who I was one year earlier, not so much in circumstances but in how much Jesus became my all.**

If someone had told me 12 months earlier that this was going to be my reality, I would have deemed them crazy. How was it possible that a promising young Christian lady with a stable job, full of friends and church activities (but also one who couldn’t go 24 hours without watching a movie), would quit everything, say good-bye to everyone, and go serve a people she didn’t know with a message she discovered burning in her heart?

While I was standing in the pulpit, Paul’s life came to my mind. I could understand a little bit of what he lived. I now felt so different from who I was one year earlier, not so much in circumstances but in how much Jesus became my all. I saw the world differently. And how I wished the world could see what I was seeing!

What do you do when God stops your train and asks you to jump out and take the opposite direction? Do you look into the Light of the world and follow Him, even if it makes you blind for a while? How do you make the ones you once mocked believe you are now with them?

Paul had personal and social reasons to persecute Christians. He had his entire “world” supporting him. After the Light came into his way, he lost his sight to gain heavenly wisdom; he lost his world to gain Christ; he even risked losing the church so he could uphold truth.

You may have the same feeling I have of not being that similar to extraordinary Paul just yet. But it is my prayer that you turn the page with me on this journey of following him, just as he followed Christ, our mutual Lord and Savior (1 Cor. 11:1).

As we delve deep into vital theology during this quarter, learning more about the freedom of salvation in the Lord Jesus, about purity of truth and the power of the Spirit to bring wonderful change, let us keep looking to the Light. May God make us all blind to the darkness of sin and give us new eyes that love, wherever He sends us to be His ambassadors (Eph. 6:20).

_Marisa Ferreira, Beirut, Lebanon_