---
title:  Knowing God Intimately
date:   25/06/2017
---

**Logos**  _(Zech. 7:3, 11, 12; Gal. 1:6, 7)_

In Zechariah chapters 6–8, God’s people are seen to have finally learned from God’s patient chastising—allowing them to be stripped of sovereignty and oppressed by a foreign yoke. And here, we see a people tired of doing things the hard way and seeking to know the will of God with all their heart. This is evidenced in the question posed in Zechariah 7:3 to gain clarity on God’s will regarding fast days that had been taught by, at the very least, tradition.

**Foremost in the eyes of God is the pure-hearted, pious soul that seeks the intimate knowledge of God’s will.**

God sums up the problem, which is very similar to that of the Galatians. God also sums up the solution, again, applicable to the church in Galatians as well. The problem in both instances is seen to be rooted in (1) the practice of esteeming tradition and the popular theology of church leadership with the authority that belongs only to the Word of God, and (2) gradually substituting a nominal spirituality for the intimate knowledge of God, as cited in verses 11, 12. God’s mark, His character of unconditional love, is placed in our hearts and minds by bringing the living Jesus into us through intimacy gained through this knowledge.

It was for good reason that God stated through Hosea that His people are “destroyed for lack of knowledge” (Hos. 4:6, NKJV), a sentiment echoed by Jesus Himself in saying, “Woe to you lawyers! For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You did not enter in yourselves, and those who were entering in you hindered” (Luke 11:52, NKJV).

After Zechariah delivers a beautiful prophecy of the church triumphant reflecting the love of God to the world, an interesting image is portrayed: “Many people and strong nations shall come to seek the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem, and to pray before the Lord. Thus saith the Lord of hosts; In those days it shall come to pass, that ten men shall take hold out of all languages of the nations, even shall take hold of the skirt of him that is a Jew, saying, We will go with you: for we have heard that God is with you” (Zech. 8:22, 23).

It sounds like the condition of the world is so thirsty for love that, upon finally getting a legitimate look at it, the world basically abandons the sin ship. The truth about God having finally met the light of day in its entirety, the yoke and burden of God is at last seen to be just what Jesus said: easy and light. The government of God appears beautiful in contrast to the cruelty and hardships that history has shown to be the sure result of a departure from God’s law of love. Moving forward, Saul, the persecutor of the “protestant” movement of the day, was deemed necessary by God for the church’s survival. The leaders of Israel had enthroned tradition and human wisdom where an intimate knowledge of God ought to be. Jesus declared this knowledge to be the embodiment of “life eternal” (John 17:3). It would germinate and grow into a great tree of faith watered by the very righteousness that flows forth from the very presence of Jesus Christ, the Son of the Most High God.

So why Saul, of all people? Saul may have been blind to a few critical points. But regarding other attributes that constitute greatness in the eyes of God—true reverence for God that cherishes His honor as the soul’s greatest delight—there must have been no equal. It so happened that Saul naturally possessed many other traits that rendered him all the more fit for the high calling. Foremost in the eyes of God is the purehearted, pious soul that seeks the intimate knowledge of God’s will.

Through the first chapter of Galatians, Paul lays out a logical discourse in an attempt to safeguard the church from the human tendency to transform cherished ideals of Christian behavior (which may be in themselves very good things to press toward throughout one’s life) into the key that grants access to God’s smile (for instance, righteousness by diet or Sabbath keeping).

The issue in Galatians can be introduced in a brief statement at the outset of the chapter: “I marvel that you are turning away so soon from Him who called you in the grace of Christ, to a different gospel, which is not another; but there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ” (Gal. 1:6, 7, NKJV). There is only one “gospel” that is profitable. Any deviation is the work of the adversary, implies Paul. Jesus emphasized one theme with respect to our “work,” our part, in the plan of salvation. An intimate knowledge of God is referenced when He said, “ ‘Abide in Me’ ” (John 15:4, NKJV). “ ‘He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me, and I in him’ ” (John 6:56, NKJV). “ ‘It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak to you are spirit, and they are life’ ” (John 6:63, NKJV).

**REACT**

1. Search for Bible texts about the intimate knowledge of God in the life of the believer. On a piece of paper, contrast your findings with an honest assessment of your current intimacy with Him.
2. Write a list of emphasized doctrines within your family or local church that may border upon supplanting biblical truth. Now write up a list of texts that contain principles to gain balanced perspective rooted in the Word.

_Michael Chesanek, Nampa, Idaho, USA_