---
title:  'Confident Faith: Inspired by Abiding in the Word of God'
date:   26/06/2017
---

**Testimony** _(Gal. 1:22–24)_


In his letter to the Galatians, Paul “reverts to his own experience, of which the Galatians have been previously informed. He reminds them of his proficiency in the learning of the Jews, and his zeal for their religion. Even in early manhood he had achieved distinction as an able and zealous defender of the Jewish faith. But when Christ was revealed to him, he at once renounced all his prospective honors and advantages, and devoted his life to the preaching of the cross. He appeals to his brethren to decide whether in all this he could have been actuated by any worldly or selfish motive. He then shows them that after his conversion he had no opportunity to receive instruction from man. The doctrines which he preached had been revealed to him by the Lord Jesus Christ. After the vision at Damascus, Paul retired into Arabia, for communion with God. It was not until three years had elapsed that he went up to Jerusalem; and he then made a stay of but fifteen days, thence going out to preach the gospel to the Gentiles. . . .

**“But when Christ was revealed to him, he at once renounced all his prospective honors and advantages, and devoted his life to the preaching of the cross.”**

“In thus reviewing his history, the apostle seeks to make apparent to all that by special manifestation of divine power he had been led to perceive and to grasp the great truths of the gospel, as presented in the Old Testament scriptures and embodied in the life of Christ on earth. It was the knowledge received from God himself which led Paul to warn and admonish the Galatians in that solemn and positive manner. He did not present the gospel in hesitancy and doubt, but with the assurance of settled conviction and absolute knowledge. In his epistle he clearly marks the contrast between being taught by man and receiving instruction direct from Christ.”*

**REACT**

`1. How do we receive knowledge from God? What are some ways we can bring that light to the world? (James 1:5; 2 Pet. 1:2–10).`

`2. Honors, advantages, and prestige: what does it profit us in the long run to hold on to these worldly recognitions and forsake God’s higher calling for us? (Matt. 6:19–21).`

<sup>* Ellen G. White, Sketches From the Life of Paul, pp. 190, 191.</sup>

_Kirsten Holloway, Kalispell, Montana, USA_