---
title:  'Paul: The Martin Luther of His Time'
date:   27/06/2017
---

**Evidence** _(Gal. 3:21, 22)_

Spiritual darkness rested upon the masses who lived within the respective jurisdictions of the Jewish and papal leaders. The leadership of each time had succeeded in changing the doctrine of justification by faith alone—into a doctrine of justification by (insert long list of rigid rules, add picture of an angry God who is waiting for His people to slip up). God was not seen to be the loving and merciful God He is. People valued tradition and the teaching of leaders over that of a personal knowledge of God.

**His righteousness becomes a fountain whereby we experience new motives and feelings toward others.**

In their respective times, Paul and Martin Luther had similar experiences. Each demonstrated a right conception of reverence (or fear) of God. Each championed the principle “justification by faith alone.” Neither of these men downplayed good works or sanctification. But they had both come to understand that we cannot even get on first base with respect to becoming more like Jesus until we realize our true condition and the impossibility of our own ability to keep the law perfectly. “Is the law, therefore, opposed to the promises of God? Absolutely not! For if a law had been given that could impart life, then righteousness would certainly have come by the law. But Scripture has locked up everything under the control of sin, so that what was promised, being given through faith in Jesus Christ, might be given to those who believe” (Gal. 3:21, 22, NIV). As we learn of His character and humbly look to Him to bring His life, His holy thoughts, and His feelings into our minds—believing His promises and trembling at the thought of trying to make ourselves more loving—we will become more and more like Him as the months go on. His righteousness becomes a fountain whereby we experience new motives and feelings toward others, a fountain fueled by a constant abiding in His Word through study and thought. This is how to become “intimate” with God.

**REACT**

`1. Is there any area in which you think we must behave a certain way to gain God’s approval or where we must muster up holy thoughts and motives of ourselves?`

`2. Think of a traditional understanding in Adventism that suggests that we must behave a certain way in order to secure God’s favor. Identify the principle(s) at the root of the issue. Finally, thoroughly research the principle(s) in the Spirit of Prophecy writings and/or the Bible to gain a more balanced understanding.`

_Andrew McCoy, San Jose, California, USA_
