---
title:  Experiencing God
date:   28/06/2017
---

**How-to** _(Acts 8:1–3; Phil. 3:3–6)_

Think about the last time you ate a ripe, juicy mango. If someone had handed you a picture of the mango, described it in great detail, and then told you, “Enjoy your mango!” how would you have felt? You would have wanted to take a bite of that mango and taste the sweetness.

In the same way, Saul had all the knowledge of the law but no experience with the Author of the law. He considered himself blameless in regard to righteousness when considered in the context of the law. Yet he persecuted the Christians for their faith in the Author of the law. It’s easy to identify with the persecuted Christians, but what can you learn from Saul before he was truly converted? If you know God, have you also experienced Him in your life? Is that experience changing you? Let’s look at how we can use knowledge and experience together to strengthen our spiritual walk.

**God’s character and plan for your life are centered in love.**

Understand the difference between knowledge and experience. Knowledge is facts or information that we put into our mental databank to retrieve at a later time. We evaluate situations based on our knowledge, and we judge based on our knowledge. Experience, on the other hand, is sensory and taps into our emotions. Experience cements the knowledge into contextual situations so we know how to apply it again in similar situations in the future. Both are important in relating to God and His Word.

Connect knowledge to experience. When you study the Bible and find promises, claim them. God has given us promises so we can learn more about His character. If you look closely at the promises He has made, you will find that they are primarily encouraging ones. Even when His people failed to listen and consequences were given, God still said He would have mercy on them.

Be open to the experience of God’s love. God’s character and plan for your life are centered in love. Sometimes we have been hurt in life by others and we are afraid to experience God’s love. It becomes easier to focus on head knowledge because that seems safe to us. A healthy spiritual life combines knowledge and experience for a deeper understanding of God’s purpose for your life.

**REACT**

`1. What do you think happens if someone relies only on knowledge to know God? What if someone relies only on experience?`

`2. What does experiencing God mean to you?`

_Maria Lombart, Beirut, Lebanon_