---
title:  Fearing the Unknown
date:   29/06/2017
---

**Opinion** _(Acts 11:1–10)_

Humankind clings to what is familiar and shuns what it doesn’t understand. This tendency is evident in political tensions, ethnic cleansing of minorities, religious wars, racism, and discrimination of all kinds. It can be found in all age groups, genders, races, and religions. But it isn’t just a thing of hate and war. It can also determine what you order at a restaurant, what you wear, and what service or Sabbath School class you attend at church.

The early church had its share of conflict based on this fear of the unknown. The Jewish leaders of the time feared the influence of the growing movement of the followers of Jesus. Whether in fear of the loss of influence and power or in fear of the corruption of their age-old religion, they fought against the early church with all their might. Paul himself worked tirelessly to persecute the believers of Jesus Christ.

**It may not be easy or natural to reach out to and love those who are different from us.**

Ironically, this exact attitude of fear and discrimination created conflict within the church when the gospel first went to the Gentiles. The early believers, for many of the same reasons as the Jewish leaders, resisted the change and the loss of control that the change would result in. Fortunately this was an attitude that Paul understood from his own personal experience, and he worked to combat it with Christ’s help.

Some of us eagerly anticipate trying new things. A new food or a new place to visit can be adventurous and fun. But there are very few, if any, of us who relish the idea of one of our long-held beliefs being challenged or even proven wrong. So what happens when those beliefs are about who we are or who someone else is? It may seem ludicrous that we would reject a group of people such as the Gentiles. Certainly we are more enlightened than that, aren’t we? Sadly, unless we are fully in tune with Christ, we are not. We still separate ourselves into groups and distance ourselves from those who are different, be it people with a different socio-economic status or a community with a different lifestyle. It may not be easy or natural to reach out to and love those who are different from us. In fact, it may take some real effort to change. But it is what God calls us to do, and He has promised to help us.

**REACT**

`1. Think of a person or group of people who make you uncomfortable. How can you reach out to them?`

`2. How should you react when something you believe is challenged?`

_Joshua Holloway, Kalispell, Montana, USA_