---
title:  Man on Fire
date:   30/06/2017
---

**Exploration** _(Acts 11:18)_

**CONCLUDE**

Next to Jesus Christ Himself, few people have contributed more to our current understanding of the Christian faith than the apostle Paul. By his own admission, Paul—formerly Saul—mercilessly persecuted the church in an effort to destroy (Gal. 1:13). Some theologians have mused that Saul was so effective at “wasting” the church that God had no choice but to put him out of commission—to knock him off the “horse” of his misplaced zeal. But God didn’t stop there. He forgave Saul, changed his name, and set him to the task of sharing the gospel with Gentile believers. To his credit, Paul employed the same dedication to this task as he had when persecuting those who believed in The Way. We are the beneficiaries of Paul’s faithful preaching of the gospel to both the Jews and the Gentiles.

**CONSIDER**

- Reading Zechariah 8:22. Write a journal entry explaining the meaning of this very important verse in your own words.
- Comparing and contrasting the actions of Saul in Acts 7 and 8 with other “bad actors” in Scripture. Make a list of people in the Bible whose lives were transformed by God. Give an example of someone whose transformation was as radical as was Saul’s transformation.
- Drawing scenes depicting some of the challenges the apostle Paul endured during his ministry. In 2 Corinthians 11:23–27, Paul recites what he has suffered for the cause of Christ. How did Paul remain steadfast through all of this?
- Praying for lay members and ministers around the world who are sharing the gospel in difficult places and situations. Believers today continue to suffer and give their lives to prepare men and women to meet God in peace.
- Mapping the cities and towns that the apostle Paul visited during his missionary journeys. Choose one city on Paul’s itinerary to research. Record whether or not there remains a Christian presence in that city. Is there a Seventh-day Adventist church or mission in that city?

**CONNECT**

- Matthew 26:59–61; 1 Samuel 16:7; Acts 15:1–5.
- Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapters 3, 18, 20.
- Charles R. Swindoll, Paul: A Man of Grace and Grit (Thomas Nelson, 2009), chapters 1, 2.

_Dwain Esmond, Gaithersburg, Maryland, USA_