---
title:  Joseph, Prince Of Egypt
date:  11/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 41:37–57; Genesis 42; Romans 5:8; Genesis 43; Genesis 44; Genesis 45.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Pharaoh [king of Egypt] said to Joseph, “I now make you governor over all of Egypt.’ ” (Genesis 41:41, ERV).

JOSEPH is now leader of Egypt. Soon his own brothers will bow down to him. They will not know that the one they bow to is Joseph (Genesis 42). The brothers of Joseph will empty their hearts of all pride when Joseph forces them to bring Benjamin to Egypt (Genesis 43). Then the brothers will ask this powerful Egyptian leader to show mercy to Benjamin when they feel his life is in danger. In the end, Joseph finally tells the men that he is their brother. Then his brothers understand that God allowed them to do evil so that He can bless them all at this time.

We learn many things about Joseph from this story. But not just Joseph. We learn many things about his brothers, too. The brothers go back and forth from Joseph to their father and have many hard tests along the way. These trips and tests help the brothers remember their evil behavior to Joseph and their father. The brothers also see how much they sinned against God. They understand that God is judging them. In the end, Joseph forgives his brothers. They all cry and feel joy. This beautiful story touches our hearts, too, with its message of forgiveness. Joseph forgives his brothers for everything they did to him.