---
title:  The Success Of Joseph 
date:  12/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Joseph sees that the dreams of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, show what God is “about to do” (Genesis 41:28, NKJV) in the land. Joseph takes action right away. He shares with the king a wise plan of action. He tells Pharaoh what he needs to do to save his people.

`What part does God have in the success of Joseph? Read Genesis 41:37–57 for the answer.`

Pharoah asks Joseph to take charge of the problem. Why? Because Joseph gives him good advice. The Bible tells us that Pharaoh saw the “advice was good” that Joseph gave him (Genesis 41:37, NKJV). The servants of Pharoah feel the same way. Pharoah sees “the Spirit of God” is in Joseph (Genesis 41:38, KJV). Joseph is the man to do the job. He is wise and has good understanding (Genesis 41:39). For sure, we see that God gives Joseph his wisdom (read Genesis 41:33; compare with 1 King 3:12).

So, Pharaoh makes Joseph the leader of Egypt. When we look at Egyptian history for that time, we see that other Pharaohs chose foreigners to be leaders in Egypt, too.

The next seven years are a time of plenty. There is so much grain that it cannot be counted or measured (Genesis 41:49). This sign shows us that God worked a miracle in Egypt. For sure, we can see this time of plenty as a blessing from God (Genesis 41:47–49). God also blesses Joseph in a personal way at this time. Joseph has two sons: Manasseh and Ephraim. The names that Joseph gives his sons show us the experience that Joseph has with God. God changes the pain of Joseph into joy, as the name of his son ashows us. The name of Ephraim shows us that God has turned the suffering of Joseph into success. These names are a powerful example of the power of God. They show us that God took something bad and turned it into something very good.

`What are ways that our lives should show God to other people?`