---
title:  Joseph Comes Face-To-Face With His Brothers 
date:  13/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story in Genesis 42. What happens in this story? How does it show us that God is in control of everything that happens?`

There is a food shortage in the land. The food shortage causes Jacob to send his sons to Egypt to buy grain (Genesis 42:1). Jacob does not know it at the time, but soon he will see the son that he believes is dead.

Now the dreams that Joseph had so long ago start to happen (Genesis 37:7). Joseph is the leader in charge of the land (Genesis 42:6). He is also named “the lord of the land” (Genesis 42:30, 33). Joseph is very powerful. His brothers are very needy. They bow down in front of Joseph with their faces to the ground (Genesis 42:6). These same ten brothers made fun of Joseph and his dreams. They did not believe they will ever bow down to Joseph (Genesis 37:8).

Do you see the words “they said to one another” (Genesis 42:21, NKJV)? We see these same words in the story about the evil plan that the brothers made so long ago against Joseph (Genesis 37:19). So, these words connect these two stories together. This connection shows us that God will cause the brothers to suffer now the things they caused Joseph to suffer in the past. The brothers spend time in jail for a little while (Genesis 40:3, 4). Joseph also spent time in that jail (Genesis 40:3). The brothers believe that they are thrown in jail because of what they did to Joseph in the past. “They said to each other, ‘We are being punished for the bad thing we did to our younger brother Joseph. We saw the trouble he was in. He begged [asked] us to save him, but we refused to listen. So now we are in trouble’ ” (Genesis 42:21, ERV).

Then Reuben says to his brothers, “ ‘I told you not to do anything bad to that boy, but you refused to listen to me. Now we are being punished for his death’ ” (Genesis 42:22, ERV). These words help us to remember the warning that Reuben gave his brothers about Joseph in the past: “  ‘Do not put him to death’ ” (Genesis 37:22, NLV). So, the things that happen to the brothers now happen because of the things they did to Joseph in the past.

`Most of us have done things in the past that we feel sorry about now. What can we do to make those things right as much as possible?`