---
title:  Joseph And Benjamin 
date:  14/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jacob has a very hard time letting his sons take Benjamin back to Egypt with them. Benjamin is the only son from Rachel that Jacob has left. Jacob is afraid he will lose Benjamin, just as he lost Joseph (Genesis 43:6–8). But soon the food the sons of Jacob bought from Egypt runs out (Genesis 43:2). Judah promises Jacob that he will make sure that Benjamin comes back home safely (Genesis 43:9). So, Jacob finally agrees for his sons to go back to Egypt and take Benjamin with them.

`Read the story in Genesis 43. What happens in the story when Benjamin goes to Egypt? How does Joseph behave when he sees his little brother?`

All the brothers stand in front of Joseph. When Joseph sees Benjamin, he invites his brothers to a special feast (Genesis 43:16). Do you see that in the story Benjamin is the only one who is named the brother of Joseph (Genesis 43:29)? Also in the story, Benjamin is the only brother who is named at all. All the other brothers are just “men” (Genesis 43:16).

Joseph names Benjamin “ ‘my son’ ” (Genesis 43:29, KJV; compare with Genesis 22:8). This name shows us the love that is in the heart of Joseph. Joseph blesses his brother (Genesis 43:29). This blessing shows us the mercy and favor of God. This blessing also helps us remember the time when Joseph was in the pit in the ground. At that time, Joseph asked his brothers to show him mercy and loving favor. But his brothers refused (Genesis 42:21). Joseph shows Benjamin the loving favor that his brothers did not show him.

The brothers of Joseph are afraid that they will be thrown into prison because of the money in their sacks. But Joseph makes a feast for them because Benjamin is there. At the feast, Joseph orders his brothers to sit down from oldest to youngest. Joseph gives Benjamin five times more than he gives all the other brothers (Genesis 43:33, 34). But the brothers do not get jealous the way they did in the past when Jacob showed more favor to Joseph than to them (Genesis 37:3, 4; read also Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 228, 229, adapted.