---
title:  The Silver Cup 
date:  15/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story in Genesis 44 about the silver cup of Joseph. Why does Joseph ask his manager to put the silver cup in the sack of Benjamin?`

As before, Joseph orders his manager to fill the sacks of his brothers with food. But this time, Joseph adds a strange command. He tells his manager to put his special silver cup in the sack of Benjamin.

When the cup is discovered, the brothers must go back to Egypt and face Joseph. At the feast, Benjamin was the special guest of honor. But now he is accused of stealing the precious silver cup. He will go to prison, for sure.

The silver cup is special. The Egyptians believed that this special cup gave its owner the power to know the secrets of men. Joseph “never announced to anyone that he had this special power. But he was willing to let his bothers believe that he knew the secrets of their lives.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 229, adapted.

Joseph uses the “magic” cup to help his brothers understand that God saw into their hearts. They are guilty of sinning against Him because of what they did to Joseph in the past. We see that Judah feels this way. That is why Judah tells his brothers that God has found sin in them (Genesis 44:16). Also, the cup is a test. Joseph wants to see what his brothers will do when they see that Benjamin will be punished for “stealing” the cup.

The brothers are deeply sad and sorry. They all feel the same pain at the thought of what will happen to Benjamin. The brothers are afraid that Benjamin will be lost as Joseph was lost. Then Benjamin also will become a slave in Egypt, the same as Joseph. Both Joseph and Benjamin were innocent. So, Judah asks Joseph to take him as a slave and let Benjamin go free (Genesis 44:33). This part of the story helps us remember the male sheep that was killed so that Isaac did not need to die (compare with Genesis 22:13). Judah offers himself as a gift, a substitute. He will be responsible for the “evil” that has happened. Then he will save his father from more sorrow at the loss of Benjamin (Genesis 44:34).

`How does the offer of Judah show us the work of Jesus for us as our Substitute on the cross? (Read Romans 5:8.)`