---
title:  “ ‘i Am Joseph Your Brother’ ” 
date:  16/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story in Genesis 45. What lessons of love, faith, and hope do we see in this story?`

Do you see what happens when Judah tells Joseph about the “ ‘evil’ ” that will happen to “ ‘avi,” the Hebrew word  for “ ‘my father’ ” (Genesis 44:34, KJV)? That is when Joseph “cried out” (Genesis 45:1, KJV). Then “he told his brothers who he was” (Genesis 45:1, NLV). Bible writers often use these words to help us see when God shows Himself to His people (Exodus 6:3; Ezekiel 20:9). So, we can see that God shows Himself here in the story, too. Now all the brothers see that the Lord is in complete control, even when they make mistakes in the past.

The brothers of Joseph cannot believe what they are hearing and seeing. So, Joseph must say the words again: “ ‘I am Joseph your brother’ ” (Genesis 45:4, NKJV). Joseph must tell them a second time, “ ‘I am the one you sold as a slave to Egypt’ ” (Genesis 45:4, NKJV). Only then, do the brothers believe his words.

Joseph announces: “ ‘God sent me’ ” to Egypt (Genesis 45:5, NKJV). These words about God help the brothers see two things. First, Joseph does not have any bad feelings about his brother in his heart. Second, these words show us the faith of Joseph and also his hope. What the brothers did to Joseph was necessary. God allows this bad thing to happen so that Joseph can save the family of Jacob and all their future children (Genesis 45:7).

Joseph tells his brothers to go to his father and invite him to Egypt. Joseph tells his brothers where they will live. They will live in the land of Goshen. Goshen is famous for its rich pastures. Joseph tells his brothers that Goshen is the best of all the land in Egypt (Genesis 45:18, 20). Joseph gives his brothers carts to take back home. These carts will be proof that will help Jacob see that his sons are not lying about their experience in Egypt (Genesis 45:27). When Jacob sees the carts, he believes that Joseph is alive. Then Jacob is filled with new life (compare with Genesis 37:35; Genesis 44:29).

Things are now good. The 12 sons of Jacob are all alive. Jacob is again named “Israel” (Genesis 45:28). This story shows us the loving favor of God in a powerful way.