---
title:  Further Thought
date:  17/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Ellen G. White, “Joseph in Egypt,” pages 213–223; “Joseph and His Brothers,” pages 224–232 in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“The sons of Jacob are in jail for three days. These days make their hearts sad. The brothers think about the wrongs they did in the past. Most of all, they think of the wrong they did to Joseph. They were very mean to him. They know that they may be punished for being spies. If they cannot show that they are innocent, they will die. Or maybe become slaves. . . . They sold Joseph as a slave. They are afraid now that God will punish them by making them become slaves. Joseph knows that his father and the families of his brothers may be in need of food. Joseph is convinced that his brothers are sorry for what they did to him. Joseph sees that they will not hurt Benjamin the way they hurt him.”—Ellen G. White, Spiritual Gifts, book 3, pages 155, 156, adapted.

“Joseph is happy. He gave his brothers a test, and they passed it. Now Joseph has proof that his brothers are sorry for their sins.”–Ellen G. White, Spiritual Gifts, book 3, page 156, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What if things did not turn out so well in the story of Joseph and his brothers? Will Joseph be as nice and kind to his brothers if they do not feel sorry for what they did to him? Of course, we do not know the answer to that question for sure. What hints do we see in the story that show us the feelings and thoughts of Joseph? How do these feelings and thoughts show us who he is? How can these things help us explain his mercy and forgiveness?`

`How does Joseph show us Jesus and what He suffered?`

`Joseph gave his brothers several tests. In what ways does God also give us tests?`

`Many years pass since the brothers sold Joseph as a slave. In time, the brothers see the wrong they did to Joseph. What does their guilt teach us about how powerful guilt can be? For sure, we must accept the forgiveness God gives us. At the same time, why must we learn to forgive ourselves?`