---
title:  Jesus Heals the Blind Man
date:   11/08/2024
---

`Read the story about Jesus and the blind man in Mark 8:22–30. Why did Jesus touch the blind man two times to heal him? What lessons do you learn from this story?`

Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John talk about some blind men that Jesus heals. Jesus heals a blind man in Mark 8. In Mark 10:46–52, Jesus heals a blind man named Bartimaeus. Matthew talks about two blind men (Matthew 20:29–34). John 9 tells the story about Jesus healing a man born blind. Jesus tells this man to wash in the Pool of Siloam.

But the story in Mark 8 is special. We find this story only in the Book of Mark. Jesus heals a blind man in this story, too. But this miracle is the only one of Jesus’ miracles that has two parts or actions. Jesus touches the man twice. As part of the story, Jesus also takes hold of the man’s hand and leads him out of the village.

But why does Jesus touch the man two times to heal him? Was it because Jesus wasn’t strong enough? Jesus touches the man twice to teach a lesson. The healing mira­cle is a living picture story. Jesus shows us we take time to grow in spiritual wisdom as Christians. Also, look at the writing style or form that Mark uses for this part (Mark 8–10). Mark starts and then ends the chapter with a story about Jesus healing a blind man. So, when Jesus gives the blind man his eyesight, Jesus shows us that He will help us “see” or understand the lessons He wants to teach us, too.

Teachers like questions. Teachers use questions to help students understand a topic. In Mark 8, Jesus asks His followers who He is. Jesus hasn’t asked them this question before this time. Peter is the first person who isn’t filled with a demon who announces that Jesus is the Savior. After Peter makes this announcement, Jesus starts to explain that He is going to die on the cross.

Why does Jesus tell His followers to tell no one that He is the Savior? Doesn’t that order go against His starting the kingdom of God? In Jesus’ day, the people expected the Savior to fight the Romans and force them to leave Israel. Jesus didn’t come to be that type of Savior. So, He ordered His followers not to tell anyone who He was.

`Are there times when we shouldn’t talk about some Bible truths? If yes, why shouldn’t we talk about them? How does this story help us answer these questions?`