---
title:  What Must We Do to Follow Jesus?
date:   12/08/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 8:31–38. What does Jesus teach us about the things we must do to follow Him?`

The followers now know that Jesus is the Savior. This knowledge changes their relationship with Jesus. As readers, we knew this information from the beginning of the Book of Mark (Mark 1:1). So, we understand things in a way that Jesus’ first followers didn’t.

When Jesus first invited men to follow Him, He promised to teach them how to “catch” men instead of fish (Mark 1:17). Jesus didn’t talk about any future trouble or hard times that would happen when people followed Him. But now the followers know who Jesus really is. So, Jesus tells them the reason that God sent Him to this earth. Jesus must suffer many things. He must be rejected and killed. Then He will wake up from the dead after three days.

This news is surprising. An instant before, Peter confessed that Jesus was the Savior. Now Peter takes Jesus aside and scolds Him for saying He will suffer and die. Jesus says sharp words to Peter that must have hurt Peter’s heart. Jesus says that Peter is Satan, and tells him to get out of His way. Why does Jesus talk this way to Peter? Because Peter’s words and thoughts were not in agreement with God’s plan for Jesus’ life.

“Peter’s words did not give Jesus the help or hope He needed to suffer the many things ahead of Him. Peter’s words were different from God’s plan of mercy for lost sinners. Peter’s words did not agree with the lessons that Jesus came to teach. Jesus came to teach His followers that they must give up things to follow Him. Jesus’ life was the example of His teachings.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 415, adapted.

Jesus wants His followers to carry the cross and follow Him. The cross was the worst death that the Romans could force a person to suffer. Everyone wanted to avoid the cross. So, why would anyone want to use the cross as a symbol of their love for Jesus?

In the Christian faith, we give up things for Jesus. He gives us the gift of everlasting life. If we get everything we want in this life and lose everlasting life, we have nothing.

`How does your life show the Bible truth in John 12:25?`