---
title:  The Mountain and the Crowd
date:   13/08/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 9:1–13. What did Peter, James, and John see at night with Jesus?`

In Mark 9:1, Jesus says that some standing with Him would not die before they saw the kingdom of God in all its shining beauty. Jesus’ promise comes true a few days later when He takes Peter, James, and John up a high mountain alone. There Jesus is changed before them. He shines with the bright glory of God’s kingdom.

Elijah and Moses come from heaven to talk with Jesus. Luke tells us that they talked about what Jesus was about to do in Jerusalem (Luke 9:30, 31). Jesus’ shining glory on the mountain is connected to His coming death on the cross (compare with Mark 9:9). When Jesus died on the cross, the followers would think back to Jesus’ shining glory on the mountain. This thought would give them hope.

The next morning, Jesus and His three followers come down the mountain. Then Peter, James, and John ask Jesus about the Bible promise that says Elijah must come first. The Jews expected Elijah to appear before the Savior came (compare with Malachi 4:5, 6). Jesus answers that Elijah already came. Jesus was talking about John the Baptist. Elijah was a symbol of John the Baptist. Jesus’ enemies killed John. They also will kill Jesus. But Jesus will wake up from the dead after three days.

After the night of shining glory, Jesus and the three followers come down to the bottom of the mountain. There, the other nine followers met a boy filled with a demon. But the nine followers could not command the demon to come out of the boy. When Jesus comes down to the bottom of the mountain, everyone runs to meet Him. Jesus learns about the demon’s control over the child. The father of the boy says to Jesus, “ ‘If you can do anything, please have pity on us and help us’ ” (Mark 9:22, ERV).

Right away, Jesus notices the man’s doubt. The Lord’s answer can be written this way: “What do you mean, ‘If I can’?” (Mark 9:23, author’s translation, adapted). Jesus’ question helps the father understand that his son is not the only one with a problem. The father has a problem, too. His problem is doubt. His doubt could keep his son from being healed! “Right away the father of the child, with tears in his eyes, said loudly, ‘I do believe! Help me to believe more!’ ” (Mark 9:24, WE). Then Jesus heals the boy.