---
title:  Who is the Most Important Person?
date:   14/08/2024
---

`Read the conversation between Jesus and His followers in Mark 9:30–41. What is different about Jesus’ second sermon about His death and resurrection, or waking up from the dead? (Compare with Mark 8:31.) Also, what do the followers argue about? What lesson does Jesus teach them?`

In Jesus’ first sermon about His death, He talks about the people who will reject Him and kill Him. In His second sermon, Jesus tells His followers that someone will sell Him to His enemies. Jesus doesn’t say who will sell Him. But the reader knows that Judas will do it because Mark tells us early on in his book (read Mark 3:19). Again, the Lord says that He will be killed and then wake up from the dead after three days. But His followers don’t really want to hear this announcement any more than they wanted to hear the first one.

In Mark 8:27, Jesus was north of the Sea of Galilee near Caesarea Philippi. In Mark 9:30, Jesus passes through Galilee. In Mark 9:33, Jesus enters Capernaum alone. His Twelve Followers are far behind Him. When the followers arrive at the house where Jesus was, Jesus asks His followers to tell Him what they talked about on the way there. No one says anything at first. Their conversation was about who was the most important person among them.

Jesus teaches His followers an important lesson about God’s kingdom. First, if you want to be the most important person in God’s kingdom, then you must become a servant. Then Jesus shows what He means with an action. Jesus puts a little child in the middle of their group. Most children may feel scared if they are in the middle of a group of strangers or big men. But Jesus picks the child up in His arms. The child relaxes. Jesus teaches His followers that if you accept the child, you accept Jesus. If you accept Jesus, then you accept His Father. So, the child that no one thinks is important is connected to God.

John asks Jesus a question about strangers or people who don’t belong to the Jewish people group. Jesus ­teaches the important lesson that everyone who isn’t against our cause is on our side. The Lord says that God in heaven always sees when we help people, even in small ways.

`What does the Bible teach about who is the most important? How are you trying to live this Bible truth?`