---
title:  The Healthy Man in Hell
date:   15/08/2024
---

`Read Mark 9:42–50. What are the teachings of Jesus in these verses? What words connect the teachings together?`

At first, we may think that these verses are a collection of Jesus’ teachings that are not connected together. When we take a closer look, we see that each new teaching has a word that connects it to the teaching before it. Mark 9:42–50 uses three important ideas to help us understand Jesus’ teachings: (1) “causes to sin,” (2) “fire,” and (3) “salt.”

The first teaching is about little ones. Little ones is a word picture for new Christians. God asks teachers and leaders in His kingdom to be responsible for new Christians. Teachers and leaders must show new Christians special care. In the same way, the Old Testament teaches that we should care for the people in our communities who need our help the most: widows, orphans, and foreigners. Jesus says that it would be better for someone to drown in the sea than to cause one of these new Christians to sin.

In Mark 9:42–50, is Jesus really teaching people to cut off their hand or foot? Or to remove one of their eyes? Also, is Jesus teaching that hell is a place where people will burn forever? The answer to the first question is no. Jesus is not teaching us to hurt our bodies. The Jews were against this behavior (compare with Deuteronomy 14:1; 1 Kings 18:27, 28). The Lord is using word pictures to teach an important lesson: we may think losing a hand, foot, or eye is terrible, but sinning is far worse!

The answer to the second question also is no. Jesus is not teaching that people will burn in hell forever. How do we know? Think about the people who are going to heaven in Jesus’ example. They enter heaven with only one eye, foot, or hand. Now think about the people who are going to hell. They enter into hell with all their body parts. A healthy man in hell? Shouldn’t it be the other way around? A healthy man will go to heaven. Jesus uses humor to help us understand the topic. He wants us to know that sin is very bad. We should be willing to lose a hand, foot, or eye before we are willing to lose everlasting life!

Hell’s flames are not everlasting. But what the flames burn up stays dead forever. So, people who are lost don’t burn forever. But they do stay dead forever.