---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   16/08/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Ministry,” and “Who Is the Greatest?” in _The Desire of Ages_, pages 426–442.

“Do you wish to be honored? Then first you must empty your heart of all pride. When God chooses people for important jobs on earth, He chooses workers who are the same as John the Baptist in their hearts. John the Baptist was not filled with pride. When we are this same way in our hearts, we will be much the same as a child. A follower who is the same as a child makes the best worker for God. Angels can work with God’s followers who are trying to save other people. These followers are not filled with pride. They do not live to honor self.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 436, adapted.

“What gifts did God give you that He didn’t give to someone else? Maybe God blessed you with the education, training, and religious experience that most other people don’t have. God gave you these gifts that He didn’t give to other people so that you will use these gifts to bless them. Are you strong? Then help those who are weak. Angels love to help God’s children. These angels shine bright with God’s glory, and always see the face of the Father in heaven. God commands the angels to watch over people who are not easy for us to love. Angels go where they are most needed. The ones who need their help the most are the people who have the hardest battles with self to fight. These people live in places that do not give them much hope. God’s loyal followers will work with His angels to help these needy and suffering people.”—_The Desire of Ages_, page 440, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read again Mark 8:27–29. How often do you confess to other people that you believe in Jesus Christ as your personal Savior?`

`Compare God’s view of success with the human view of success. How are the two different? What type of men and women do most people think are important? Who does God think is a success that the people on this earth pay no attention to or may not even like very much? What do your answers tell us about how wrong the sinner’s ideas about success really are?`