---
title:  Law And Mercy
date:  06/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Ezekiel 28:15, 16; Deuteronomy 17:19; Deuteronomy 10:1–15; Matthew 18:21–35.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “So I do not make the love of God useless. But if a person can be made good by the law, then Christ [Jesus] died for nothing” (Galatians 2:21, WE).

MOST CHRISTIANS BELIEVE in the law of God and His mercy. Most Christians understand the connection between law and mercy, too. The law of God shows us that God is holy. Sin breaks the law of God: “Everyone who sins breaks the law. In fact, breaking the law is sin” (1 John 3:4, NIrV). The Bible says we all have broken the law: “all men are guilty of sin” (Galatians 3:22, NLV). Only the mercy of God can save us: “You have been saved by God’s love and kindness [mercy] because you believed. It was not because of anything you did, but it was a gift from God” (Ephesians 2:8, WE).

(There is one small problem with the law for many Christians: the Sabbath is part of the law. Many Christians do not accept the Sabbath. They come up with many reasons and excuses for why they do not need to keep the Sabbath any longer. But these reasons and excuses are a topic for another time.)

The idea about law and mercy is found all through the Bible. We see this idea in the book of Deuteronomy. Yes, Deuteronomy also shows us the connection between law and mercy. But Deuteronomy shows us this connection idea in a very special way.