---
title:  Law In Heaven 
date:  07/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God is a God of love. Love is the most important part of His government. God wants us to love Him back. So, He made us free to love, and free to choose right from wrong.

An important part of our freedom to choose is the law of God. Atoms are some of the smallest parts of energy. But atoms do not need to choose between right or wrong. They do not need a law that shows them what is right. Sea waves and kangaroos also cannot choose between good and evil. So, they do not need a law to show them right from wrong.

Read Ezekiel 28:15, 16. These verses talk about Lucifer. The Lord announces that This mighty angel was “ ‘filled with bad ways, and you sinned’ ” in heaven (verse 16, NLV). How do these words about Lucifer show us that the law of God was a real part of heaven? and that everyone in heaven needed to keep the law?

Do you see the words “filled with bad ways” and “sinned”? The Bible often uses these words to talk about what happened when humans broke the law. As you see in Ezekiel 28, the Bible also uses these same words to talk about what happened in heaven. This information shows us something important about the law of God. The law is important for both angels in heaven and humans on earth.

Paul writes, “Then what are we saying? Is the Law sinful [the same as sin]? No, not at all! But it was the Law that showed me what sin is. I did not know it was sin to follow wrong desires [feelings and wishes], but the Law said, ‘You must not follow wrong desires’ ” (Romans 7:7, NLV). How can this important rule help us to understand better why the law is important for angels to follow, too?

Ellen G. White explains: “The law of God shows us what God thinks is important. The important rules of His law also govern heaven. Angels wish to learn and do what God wants. This knowledge and work are the most important things angels can learn and do.”—Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, page 109, adapted.

`Why must we not separate the idea of the law of God from the idea that God made us free to choose right from wrong? Without this law, what shows us right from wrong?`