---
title:  Law In Deuteronomy 
date:  08/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Hebrew people are on the borders of Canaan. God is about to give His chosen people the land He promised them. As we have seen, Moses gives the Hebrews some final lessons and advice before they take the land. Part of these teachings include commands that the people must obey.

Read Deuteronomy 4:44; Deuteronomy 17:19; Deuteronomy 28:58; Deuteronomy 30:10; Deuteronomy 31:12; Deuteronomy 32:46; and Deuteronomy 33:2. What is the Lord saying to His people in these verses? Why is this message so important?

These verses show us that obedience is very important for Israel. Obedience is part of their agreement with God. God did so much for them. God will continue to help them in the future. God will do the things for them that they cannot do on their own. God will give them things they have done nothing to earn. (This idea shows us the meaning of mercy: God gives us forgiveness we did not earn.) What does God want from His chosen people in answer to this precious gift? God wants His people to obey Him.

Things are the same today. God saves us by His mercy when we believe in Him. We are not saved by our own good behavior. “We firmly believe that a person is made right with God because of their faith. They are not saved by obeying the law” (Romans 3:28, NIrV). So, we do not obey the law to be saved, “because no one can be made right with God by following the law. The law only shows us our sin” (Romans 3:20, ERV). We obey the law because God has saved us by His love and mercy. So, Jesus asks us to love Him back and obey His commands: “ ‘If you love me, you will obey me’ ” (John 14:15, WE).

From the first page to the last, Deuteronomy teaches us all about the mercy and law of God. God saves us by His mercy. He does for us the things we cannot do for ourselves. (In the same way, Israel did not escape from Egypt without the help of God.) In answer to this gift, we obey God and His law. We live this obedient life by faith. God forgives us because of His mercy. His mercy helps us obey His law, too. Our obedience comes from our friendship and connection with Him.

`When we obey God, we must not try to earn His favor by our good behavior. How can we avoid making this mistake?`