---
title:  For Your Good 
date:  09/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Some people look for any excuse not to accept Bible truth. So, they say that the God in the Old Testament is mean and nasty, while Jesus is kind and nice. This idea is not new. The idea is just as wrong today as it was when someone first invented it hundreds of years ago.

Again and again, the Old Testament shows us how much the Lord loves His people. He wants only the best for them. His love is shown in a powerful way in Deuteronomy.

Read Deuteronomy 10:1–15. What does Moses tell the people just before He gives them the message of love from God in verses 12–14? What do all these verses show us about how God feels about His people, even after their sin? What do these verses also teach us about mercy?

These verses show the people how much God loves them. Pay special attention to verses 12 and 13. Do you see what God says to His people? He really says, “I want you to obey Me. Love Me. Serve Me. Keep my commandments for your own good.” Do you also see the words written as “you” and “your” in these verses? In the Hebrew language, these words show us only one person. Of course, God talks to all the Israelites as a whole group in these verses. At the same time, God talks to each person in the group. What good will this message do for the people if each person, one by one, does not obey God? So, that is why the Hebrew language shows that the Lord talks to each person, too.

We cannot end our study today without first talking about verse 13: “So obey the laws and commands of the Lord that I am giving you today. These laws and commands are for your own good” (Deuteronomy 10:13, ERV). God commands His people to obey, because God wants the best for them. God made His people. God takes care of them. God also knows what they need. So, God wants the best for them. That is why they should obey Him.

Some people compare the law of God to a wall. When we stay inside this wall, God will protect us from many evil things that can destroy us. In short, God gave His people His law because He loved them. Their obedience is “ ‘for [their] own good’ ” (Deuteronomy 10:13, ERV).

`How have you seen for yourself that obedience to the law of God has been “for your own good”?`