---
title:  A Slave In Egypt 
date:  10/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Deuteronomy, we see the same topic again and again: the Lord saves His people from slavery in Egypt. Moses tells the people to remember how the Lord made them free: “ ‘ “And the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a strong hand and a long arm, causing much fear by doing powerful works” ’ ” (Deuteronomy 26:8, NLV; read also Deuteronomy 16:1–6). Other Old Testament writers talk about this story, too: “ ‘I brought you out of the land of Egypt. I took you out of the land where you were servants. And I sent Moses, Aaron and Miriam to lead you’ ” (Micah 6:4, NLV).

In the New Testament, Paul uses this story as a word picture to show how God saves His people by faith in Jesus: “Because the Jews had faith, they went through the Red Sea as if they were on dry ground. But when the people of Egypt tried to go through, they were all killed by the water” (Hebrews 11:29, NLV; read also 1 Corinthians 10:1–4).

Read Deuteronomy 5:6–22. In these verses, Moses says the Ten Commandments again. Do you see the reason Moses gives the people for why they must obey the 4th commandment? What is that reason? How does this reason show us the connection between law and mercy?

When Moses tells the people the Sabbath commandment in Deuteronomy, he adds something new. Yes, the people should keep the Sabbath holy because it shows that God made the earth and sky. But they also must keep the Sabbath because God saved them from Egypt. The mercy of God made them free and offered them rest (Hebrews 4:1–5). Now, God wants His people to show this same mercy to other people.

For sure, Deuteronomy 5:6–22 shows us that the Sabbath is a powerful word picture for the mercy of God. God showed His mercy when He made the Sabbath rest for everyone. That includes children, servants, animals, and even foreigners. So, the Sabbath shows that God gives His mercy to His own people and to people who do not belong to Israel. This truth is so important. Maybe that is why the Sabbath truth is in the center of the law of God. The Sabbath helps us to remember to show other people the mercy God showed us.

`Read Matthew 18:21–35. What important rule do you see in this picture story? How does the Sabbath commandment in Deuteronomy show us this important rule?`