---
title:  Not Because Of Your Own Good Behavior 
date:  11/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The most important teaching in Christianity is the teaching that God saves us by our faith in His mercy: “ ‘What do we find in Scripture [Bible]? It says, “Abraham believed God. God accepted Abraham’s faith, and so his faith made him right [holy] with God’ ” (Romans 4:3, NIrV).

Ellen G. White explains this important teaching this way: “What does it mean that God saves us by our faith in His mercy? This teaching means that God does for man what man cannot do for himself. That is why all the glory in saving humans goes to God. Men cannot accept any praise for this work. When men see that they are nothing, they are ready to accept the holy life of Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By, page 109, adapted.

When you remember that God is holy and we are sinners, you can see why only a wonderful act of mercy can save us. And it did. Mercy happened at the cross when Jesus, the innocent One, died for the sins of the guilty.

Read Deuteronomy 9:1–6. What does Moses in these verses say to the people? How does this message show the mercy of God for people who did nothing to earn His mercy? How does this story show us the important teaching that God saves us by our faith in His mercy?

Deuteronomy 9:5 shows us the good news. Paul taught this same Bible truth: God does not save you “ ‘because you are good and live right’ ” (Deuteronomy 9:5, ERV). The Lord saves you because of the promises He made to you in “the Good News that lasts [continues] forever” (Revelation 14:6, NLV). God did not make us this promise “because of the good things we have done. He did it because he himself planned to do it, and wanted to do it. That was the blessing he gave us in Christ Jesus. He had this plan before he made the world [earth and sky]” (2 Timothy 1:9, WE; read also Titus 1:2). Do you see that God gave us this promise before time began? We were not alive at that time. So, our good behavior cannot be the reason God saves us.

In short, the Lord is going to do a wonderful work for you and in you, even if you made a lot of mistakes. So, you must obey His laws. Your good behavior does not save you. Your good behavior comes because you are saved.

The Lord saves you by His mercy. He writes His law in your heart and gives you His Holy Spirit to help you obey.