---
title:  Further Thought
date:  12/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Satan is the enemy of Jesus. Satan fought in heaven against the law of God. Now he works the same as a general. He uses all his skills and tricks to make the law of God mean nothing and have no control over our lives. The law of God is the only thing that shows us sin and how we can be holy.”—Ellen G. White, Review and Herald, November 18, 1890, adapted.

Think about what this verse means: “The Word (Christ) was in the beginning. The Word was with God. The Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. He made all things. Nothing was made without Him making it” (John 1:1–3, NLV). Yes, God made everything. He made all the millions and millions of stars and everything else. Then what did He do later on? He became a very small human baby. He lived a human life and did not sin. Then He died on the cross. On the cross, Jesus accepted the punishment for our sins and our evil. He did that so we can have the promise of everlasting life.

Here is a wonderful Bible truth: God gives us mercy because Jesus died for us on the cross. What does God expect us to give Him for this precious gift? Solomon answers the question this way: “Everything has now been heard. And here’s the final thing I want to say. Have respect for God and obey his commandments. This is what he expects of all human beings” (Ecclesiastes 12:13, NIrV).

**Discussion Questions**:

`How is our obedience different from a legal religion? That is, why is obeying the law not the same as trying to save ourselves by our own good behavior?`

`What personal stories have you heard about people who broke the Ten Commandments and suffered because of their lawbreaking? How do these stories show us the love of God for us in a very real way?`

`How does the Cross show that we are silly and foolish if we try to earn our way to heaven?`