---
title:  Satan's Biggest Plan
date:   27/05/2018
---

In our first lesson, we talked about the big war between God and Satan. Sadly, this war has gone beyond heaven to our earth.
The problem is that many people do not believe in this big war. Why? Because they do not believe in Satan. Sadly, this group of people includes some Christians, too. What do they think about Bible verses that talk about Satan, or the devil? These people say that the devil is just a word picture the Bible uses to explain evil and suffering. But these people do not really believe the Bible means the devil is real. For many people, the idea of a powerful and evil angel who wants to destroy humans is only a made-up story, the same as Darth Vader from the movie Star Wars is made up.

`Read these verses from Revelation: Revelation 2:13, 24; Revelation 12:3, 7–9, 12, 17; Revelation 13:2; and Revelation 20:2, 7, 10. What do these verses teach us about how real Satan is? What do these verses teach us about Satan’s part in what will happen in the last days?`

The book of Revelation shows us just how much power Satan will have over people on the earth in the last days. Satan will lead these people away from God’s plan to save them. Satan also will lead these people to attack everyone who stays loyal to Jesus.

Satan has many evil “plans” (2 Corinthians 2:11, ERV). The word “plans” comes from *noemata*, which is the Greek word for “mind.” Maybe Satan’s most powerful “plan” is to trick people into believing that he is not real. Would you really waste your time trying to protect yourself against an enemy you did not believe was real? Of course not. But it is surprising how many Christians do not believe the devil is real. The only way these Christians can think this way is to take the Bible verses about the devil and say that those verses really mean something else instead. But the Bible is clear. The devil is real. The fact that so many Christians would ignore this truth is a powerful warning to us: we must understand the truths the Bible really teaches.

`Revelation talks about Satan’s evil plans in the last days. But what wonderful hope can we find in Revelation 12:11? Where does our power against the devil come from?`
