---
title:  Satan's Two Biggest Lies
date:   28/05/2018
---

Read the verses below. What do these verses tell us about Satan’s power to trick us?

`2 Corinthians 11:13–15`

`2 Thessalonians 2:9, 10`

`Revelation 12:9`

`Revelation 20:10`

We learned that Jesus told His followers to watch out for false leaders and messengers. These false messengers would “ ‘fool [trick] many people’ ” (Matthew 24:5, ERV).

False leaders and messengers are not Satan’s only tricks in the last days. Satan also has many other tricks he uses to fool as many people as he can. As Christians, we need to know what his tricks are. How do we do that? We do that by knowing Bible truth and obeying it.

Ellen G. White explains two of the devil’s biggest lies: “Satan will use two big and powerful lies to trick people in the last days. What are these lies? They are the false teachings that (1) the soul does not die and (2) that Sunday is holy. People who believe that the soul does not die often believe in another lie that is even more dangerous. This lie is the belief that the spirits of dead people can communicate with living people. The second lie about Sunday being holy leads people to honor the power of the Roman Catholic Church. There is a big difference that separates Bible religion from the false belief that the spirits of dead people can talk with living people. But Protestant Christians in the United States will be the first to reach across this big separation to accept the false teaching about spirits. Protestants will also join with the power of the Roman Catholic Church. Together, [1] Protestants, [2] the Roman Catholic Church, and [3] people who believe the dead talk to us will use their power to get the government of the United States to do what they want. Then this country will do exactly what Rome did in the past. The United States will take away freedom from people to worship the way they want.”—The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 588; adapted.
