---
title:  'Satan's First Lie: The Soul Does Not Die'
date:   29/05/2018
---

`Read Ecclesiastes 9:5, 6, 10; Psalm 115:17; Psalm 146:4; 1 Corinthians 15:16–18; and Daniel 12:2. What do these verses teach us about what happens when we die? What protection can these verses give us against Satan’s lie that the soul goes on living after the body dies?`

In the past 30 or 40 years, magazines, radio shows, and TV shows have spent a lot of time on stories about people who “died” but then came back to life. What happened when these people “died”? Their hearts stopped pumping. These people stopped breathing. But later, they woke up from the dead. In many of these stories, the people who “died” told about amazing experiences they had of being alive after they “died.” Some of the people who “died” said they floated in the air above their dead bodies. They could look down from above and see their bodies below them. Other people said that they floated out of their bodies and then met a wonderful person who was filled with light and warmth. This magical person talked about kindness and love. Other people who “died” said they met and talked with dead relatives.

Many people started having this same experience. Because so many people began to have it, the experience was given a scientific name: Near Death Experience (NDE). Many Christians use NDEs as proof that the soul goes on living after the body dies. These Christians say that NDEs are proof that the soul goes off to another place, where it continues to live, think, and feel.

But NDEs are one of Satan’s two biggest lies in the last days. People who believe that the soul goes on living after the body dies are in deep danger from being tricked by other lies that come from believing we can talk with dead spirits. One other dangerous lie is the idea that we do not need Jesus. In fact, many people who have NDEs say that the spirits and dead relatives that they met gave them comforting words about love and peace. But these spirits and dead relatives never said anything about being saved by Jesus. It is strange that these dead spirits and relatives said nothing about Bible teachings, right?

`As Christians, why must we trust Bible truths, even when our experiences seem to go against those truths?`
