---
title:  The Sabbath and Satan's Lie About How Life On Earth Started
date:   30/05/2018
---

Satan has had a lot of success in tricking the people on this earth. Satan has caused a lot of people to believe in the lie that the soul goes on living after the body dies. Satan has had even more success in changing the Bible Sabbath to Sunday.

But the devil came with another trick in these last days. This sneaky trick weakens people’s belief in the seventh- day Sabbath even more. What is this trick? It is the false idea about how life started.

`Read Genesis 1–2:3. What do these verses teach us about how the Lord made our earth? How long did it take the Lord to make everything on our planet?`

These verses in Genesis 1–2:3 show us two important truths about how our earth was made. First, God planned everything before He did it. Nothing happened by chance. The Bible leaves no room at all for chance to be a part of how life started on this earth.

Second, the Bible shows us very clearly that God made each animal separate from every other animal. The Bible does not teach at all the false idea that all life on earth came from one single cell.

The Bible makes these two truths very clear: (1) life did not happen by chance and (2) life did not start from one single cell. But these two things are exactly what is taught by evolution. Evolution is the belief that one single cell slowly changed by chance over long periods of time into all the different animals and plants we see now.

Evolution is an attack on the Sabbath. The Sabbath is a reminder that God made the earth in six days and rested on the seventh. But evolution says the earth took 4.5 billion years to make. Evolution takes the six days of God’s work to make this earth and turns it into a fairy tale. So, would people who believe in evolution really want to risk their lives for the Sabbath truth in the last days? Why would someone want to risk being attacked or even killed for a truth he or she does not believe in? The answer to that question helps us understand why evolution is such a dangerous attack on the Sabbath in the last days.
