---
title:  The Fake Three-In-One God
date:   31/05/2018
---

The Bible teaches that God is Three Persons but One God. Revelation shows us there also is a false three-in-one god. Who is it? Revelation 13 shows us that it is the dragon, the wild animal that came from the sea, and the wild animal that came from the ground. These animals are word pictures for powers that rule on the earth in the end time.

`Read Revelation 12:17 and Revelation 13:1, 2. What do these verses describe?`

The dragon, or Satan, is the one who is clearly in control of the other two powers that are part of the false three-in-one god. The dragon tries to take God the Father’s place. The dragon also gives power and a throne to the wild animal from the sea. The wild animal that came from the sea is a false Jesus. Why is this second power a false Jesus?

`Read Revelation 13:2–5. How do these verses describe the wild animal power from the sea? What does he do?`

God gave Jesus His power (read Matthew 28:18).The dragon gives power to the wild animal from the sea too. Jesus died and then woke up from the dead. The wild animal from the sea also faces death but then comes back to life (Revelation 13:3).
Read Revelation 13:11–17. How do these verses describe the wild animal power that comes from the land?

The Holy Spirit brought down “fire” from heaven (Acts 2:3, NLV). The wild animal power from the land also “made fire come down from heaven” (Revelation 13:13, ERV).

“In the last days, the wild animal power from the land makes a false Pentecost happen. [Pentecost was the time when God poured out the Holy Spirit on Jesus’ followers after Jesus woke up from the dead and went to heaven.] Why did the wild animal power from the land do that? To prove to everyone on earth that the false three-in-one god is the true God.”—Jon Paulien, What the Bible Says About the End-Time (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1998), page 111; adapted.

`What are more of Satan’s tricks in the last days? How can we protect against them and help people to do the same?`
