---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   01/06/2018
---

Let us talk a little bit more about the Sabbath and evolution. Evolution is the unproved idea that life on this earth started from one single cell that slowly changed over long periods of time into all the different animals and plants we see now. Charles Darwin is the father of this false idea. He had a difficult time understanding how a loving God could let there be evil and suffering.

Darwin worked more deeply on his idea about evolution during the mid-to-late 1800s. It is no accident that during this time God started the Seventh-day Adventist Church. This church stands against everything that Darwin believed in about evolution. How interesting that the Seventh-day Adventist Church began to grow larger about the same time as Darwin’s false idea about how life started on earth. Who knows what would have happened if Darwin could have read these few short lines from Ellen G. White: “It is true that the earth was under a curse. Even so, nature was man’s lesson book. Nature did not show us only God’s goodness and love. After all, evil was everywhere. Evil spoiled the perfect beauty on the earth, in the sea, and in the air. Before sin, nature showed only God’s love and that everything was good. Now nature showed Satan’s hate for God and that there was evil. Nature would now always be filled with warnings to man about what would happen when he sinned.”—Education, page 26; adapted.

Darwin’s ideas about evolution came from his misunderstanding about God and about the awful things that sin has done to this earth. Evolution is very dangerous for many reasons. One reason is because it causes people to believe in more of Satan’s lies during the last days.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Why do so many Christians believe that the devil is not real? What does this view teach us about how dangerous it is to turn away from the clear teachings of the Bible?`

`2. What would you say to someone who tells you that he or she had a near-death experience (NDE)? What can you say to help this person understand that we do not go on living after our bodies die? What Bible verses could you share with this person?`

`3. What other reasons can you think of that make a belief in evolution so dangerous in these last days?`
