---
title:  In Him Was Life
date:   24/11/2024
---

In John 1:1, John says that Jesus is God the Son. In John 1:4, John also tells us that “life began [started] by [with] Him. His Life was the Light for men” (NLV). The “life” that John is talking about is the life that comes only from God. Jesus has life in Himself. So, He can give up His life as a man and get it back again (John 10:17). Because life starts with Jesus, He can give life to anyone He wants (John 5:21; compare with John 14:19).

The word “life” comes from the word “zoē” in the Greek language. John uses the word “zoē” 36 times in the Book of John. In John 1:4, 5, John tells us that all life started with Jesus. In these same verses, John also uses the word “zoē” to mean God’s plan to save people from sin. In the rest of the Book of John, John uses the word “zoē” to talk about God’s promise of everlasting life (read John 3:15, 16, 36; John 4:14, 36; John 6:27, 40, 47, 54, 68; John 10:27, 28). So, the Person who gave life to every living thing on planet Earth is the same Person who saves us and gives us everlasting life.

`Why did Jesus come to this earth? Read John 1:29; John 3:16; John 6:40; John 10:10; and John 12:27 for the answer.`

“Moses lifted up the snake in the desert. It is the same with the Son of Man. He must be lifted up too. Then everyone who believes in him can have eternal [everlasting] life” (John 3:14, 15, ERV).

The brass snake was a substitute for the Israelites in the desert who were dying from snake bites. In the same way, we are dying from sin. Jesus is our substitute. He hung on the cross for us. He accepted the penalty that was ours so that we may get the life that is His.

Jesus does not want us to die. Jesus wants us to enjoy life in every possible way (John 10:10). That is why Jesus helps the ones who accept Him “to become children of God. They became God’s children, but not in the way babies are usually [almost always] born. It [becoming God’s children] was not [did not happen] because of any human desire [wish] or plan. They [the ones who accepted Jesus] were born from God himself” (John 1:12, 13, ERV).

Jesus came to show the Father to us (John 1:18). When we see Jesus’ love, we also see who the Father is.