---
title:  The Words Of Everlasting Life
date:   25/11/2024
---

`When Jesus asked His followers if they would leave Him, what did Peter say? What do Peter’s words mean? Read John 6:61–68 for the answers.`

Peter’s words about “everlasting life” are written in the Book of John. Peter’s words help us understand this important topic. John talks about everlasting life in John 6:27, 40, 47, 54, and 68. In John 6:35, Jesus says that He is the Bread of Life. So, Jesus’ life, death, and resur­rection or waking up from the dead are the reasons He can give us the gift of everlasting life.

John uses the words “everlasting life” or words that have this meaning at least 17 times in the Book of John. These words don’t mean “living as a ghost with no body” or “becoming part of a spirit that doesn’t die.” The words “everlasting life” mean God’s life-giving power. This power saves us and gives us new life now and everlasting life when Jesus comes back. Jesus had a body when He lived on this earth. In the same way, when Jesus wakes us up from the dead, we will wake up in a new body. Then Jesus will give back to us the life we lost in Eden.

`How do we get everlasting life? Read John 3:15, 16; John 5:24; John 6:40, 47; John 8:31; John 12:46; and John 20:31 for the answer.`

We believe with faith because of God’s mercy that Jesus came to live and die for us. God gives us this faith as a gift. But we must decide to give ourselves to Jesus. We must feel sorry about sinning and accept Jesus’ blood. With His blood, Jesus forgives and makes us clean from sin.

When Jesus asked Peter if he, too, was going to leave, Peter said, “ ‘Lord, who can we go to? You have the words of eternal [everlasting] life’ ” (John 6:68, NIrV). Peter’s words show us what God’s saving plan is all about and how we can get everlasting life. We don’t get it from studying history or science. All these things are human ideas. We get everlasting life from Jesus. Jesus has everlasting life in Himself. He offers it to everyone who will accept it.

`How should the promise of everlasting life in the future change the way we live now?`