---
title:  Born Again
date:   26/11/2024
---

`How do we become Christians? Read John 1:12, 13 for the answer.`

John wrote his book to help us believe in Jesus and accept His gift of everlasting life (John 20:31). In John 1:12, 13, we read about how God saves us. His saving plan has two parts: (1) We accept Jesus or believe in Him. (2) Jesus helps us to become God’s children. John 1:13 explains the second part of God’s plan with a word picture. We become God’s children when we become born again. So, as we see, God has a part in our becoming Christians, and we have a part, too. We must act in faith. When we believe, we accept Jesus. We must be willing to accept Bible truth. God makes our hearts new.

Faith is a gift from God. We get faith when we hear and obey Bible truth (Romans 10:17). “Do we want to have a real, living faith in Jesus? Then we must know Him as He is shown to us in the Bible.”—Ellen G. White, Fundamentals of Christian Education, page 433, ­adapted. “The Holy Spirit works on the human mind and helps fill us with faith in God.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 7, page 940, adapted.

When people believe and accept Jesus as their Savior, they get everlasting life. John also says that we must accept or believe the words that Jesus said (John 5:24, 38, 47). The Holy Spirit helps us believe (John 16:7, 8; compare with Romans 8:16).

`Read Romans 8:16. What important rule about being saved in Jesus do we read about in this verse?`

Real Bible faith comes from the Holy Spirit’s work in our hearts. “Faith is an important blessing. Faith is understanding. Faith is also hearing and obeying Bible truth.”—Ellen G. White, In Heavenly Places, page 104, adapted. Human thinking says that we must first find a reason for our faith, and then we can believe. But the Bible says that faith is the reason. Faith is a gift from God (Ephesians 2:8; 1 Corinthians 1:17–24; 1 Corinthians 2:1–6). We start with faith. From there, we grow in understanding and in God’s gift of mercy.