---
title:  Rejecting The One Who Gives Us Life
date:   27/11/2024
---

The Book of John shares some very sad stories. “The Light shone where it was dark and the darkness did not stop the Light from shining. . . . He, the Word [Jesus], was in the world [on the earth among people]. Yes, he even [also] made the world [the skies and the earth]. And yet [at the same time] the world [the people] did not know him. He came into the world [the earth] that was his own, but his own people did not receive [accept] him” (John 1:5, 10, 11, WE). Many of the Jews rejected Jesus, the “I AM.”

No wonder Paul later warns, “So don’t throw away your bold [brave] faith” (Hebrews 10:35, NIrV). As we saw already, people rejected Jesus because they didn’t accept His message.

“The modern way of thinking starts with doubt. People doubt everything to understand what is truth. They accept those things that they can’t doubt. Some people study and try to understand the Bible in the same way. They measure the truth about the Bible with knowledge from science and history. This way of Bible study starts with doubt in Bible truth. Jesus asked, ‘When the Son of Man comes, will he find people on earth who have faith?’ (Luke 18:8).”—E. Edward Zinke and Roland Hegstad, The Certainty of the Second Coming (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 2000), page 96, adapted.

`Read about the spies in Numbers 13:23–33. The spies brought back two different reports about the Promised Land. What made the reports different?`

At Kadesh Barnea, the Israelites sinned because they doubted God’s command. God asked them to go take the land of Canaan. Moses sent 12 spies to Canaan to spy out the land. The spies came back with two different reports. Most of the spies gave a bad report. They said the land of Canaan was filled with giants, cities with big walls around them, weapons, and armies. This group of spies also remembered that they were slaves in the land of Egypt. So, they didn’t have much experience fighting war. Ten spies voted against taking the land of Canaan. Two spies voted yes. These two had faith in the power of God’s command.

`How do we avoid making the same mistake the ten spies made?`