---
title:  The Ones Who Are Already Judged
date:   28/11/2024
---

“People who believe in God’s Son are not judged guilty. But people who do not believe are already judged, because they have not believed in God’s only Son. . . . Everyone who does evil hates the light. They [people who do evil] will not come to the light, because the light will show all the bad things they have done. But anyone who follows the true way comes to the light. Then the light will show that whatever they have done was done through [because of] God” (John 3:18–21, ERV; compare with John 1:10).

`Why does God judge people? Read John 3:18, 36; John 5:24, 38; John 8:24; and John 12:47 for the answer.`

Jesus is the Light of this earth. When we refuse to accept the Light, or Bible truth, we are in danger of doubting the Bible and sinning. When we reject Jesus, we turn from the light and accept the dark.

Eve doubted God’s command. She thought that a God of love wouldn’t destroy the people and animals that He made. Eve trusted the snake. Eve saw that the snake ate the forbidden fruit and now could speak! Eve wondered if the snake was right. She thought, “Maybe if I eat the fruit, I will be the same as God!” The snake tricked Eve. She chose to reject God’s command. Her husband made the same choice.

`Read Matthew 4:1–4. What important rules does Jesus use in the desert to fight against Satan’s tricks?`

Jesus could have made the same wrong choice that Adam and Eve made. The people who lived before the Flood also made this same wrong choice. The Israelites at Kadesh Barnea made this wrong choice, too. Jesus could have asked why a loving God left His Son in the desert for 40 days and nights with no food or protection. Jesus also could give the devil proof that He was God. Jesus could turn the stones into bread! But Jesus didn’t. Jesus answered Satan with verses from the Bible. Jesus did not need to make excuses for His choices, as most people do when they make a wrong decision. That’s because Jesus always chose to do the right thing.