---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   29/11/2024
---

Ellen G. White, “ ‘God With Us,’ ” pages 19–26; “Controversy,” pages 601–609, in The Desire of Ages.

“When Jesus became a man, He showed that He was completely different from Satan. But Jesus didn’t stop there. ‘And when he was a man, he was humble [without pride]. He was even [also] willing to die, yes, to die on a cross.’ Philippians 2:8 [WE]. When the high priest, or top spiritual leader, served in the temple in Old Testament times, he removed his beautiful clothes. He put on the same clothes that the other priests wore. In the same way, Jesus became a servant. Jesus gave Himself as an offering for sin. Jesus was both the priest and the offering. But Jesus ‘was ­wounded [punished] for the wrong things we did. He was crushed for the evil things we did. The punishment, which made us well, was given to him. And we are healed because of his wounds [cuts].’ Isaiah 53:5 [ICB].

“God gave Jesus our punishment, and gave us the love that belonged to Jesus. Jesus wasn’t guilty of doing any sin. But God punished Jesus for our sins, so that God could accept us because of Jesus’ holy life. We did nothing to earn God’s mercy. Jesus suffered the death meant for us. Jesus did that so that we could get the life that belonged to Him. ‘We are healed because of his wounds [cuts].’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 25, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus gave so much to save us. How can you help other people to understand this wonderful Bible truth and come to Him in faith?`

`Do you trust the Bible to help you make good decisions? Or do you trust your own thinking and ideas? How are these two ways of making decisions different from each other?`

`What reasons do we have for our faith? How do special messages about time in the Bible help our faith? Or how do the amazing things in nature help make our faith strong? How are these things proof that God is real and lives?`

`If someone asked you why you believe in Jesus, how would you answer?`