---
title:  Healthy, Holistic Living
date:   18/11/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Romans 12:1, 2**

**Healthy, Holistic Living**

Seventh-day Adventists today will often tell others that we tend to live an average of six to eight years longer than the general population and have some of the lowest rates of lifestyle illnesses such as cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. One commonly cited example of this is Loma Linda, a city in California where a high percentage of the population identifies as Adventist. National Geographic magazine and other widely recognized journals have reported on extensive research that has identified Loma Linda as a “blue zone,” a region of the world that has a higher-than-usual number of people who live longer than the average seventy or eighty years.

Healthy diets and lifestyles weren’t the top priority for most early Sabbatarian Adventists as they were busy establishing the church as an official organization, studying the prophecies of Daniel and Revelation, and proclaiming the imminence of Jesus’ return. There were, however, a few individuals within the movement who seemed to realize the importance of holistic living, perhaps the most prominent of whom was Joseph Bates. For example, he gave up alcohol completely in 1821 and in 1827 helped organize one of the first temperance societies in the United States. He also gave up meat, butter, cheese, grease, pies, and rich cakes in favor of a more plant-based diet. His dietary choices were far ahead of their time.

Standard medical practices at this time were little better than guesswork. Treatments were often discovered through simple trial and error. People generally didn’t know the cause of most diseases or how they spread, and many were subjected to methods that we recognize today caused much harm. As God had done with other practices, He faithfully led His church to a broader and more comprehensive view of how we ought to treat our bodies, and He helped us understand why.

This week, we will explore how the command in Romans to “offer your bodies as a living sacrifice” (12:1; NIV) relates to healthy living in both body and mind.

#### inScribe

Write out Romans 12:1, 2 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `