---
title:  A Temperate Lifestyle
date:   19/11/2023
---

#### inGest

Romans 12:1 makes the important point that our bodies need to be presented as a holy, living sacrifice to God—a point the early Adventists slowly began to understand over the course of a few decades. The believers accepted the practice of abstaining from alcohol and tobacco in the 1840s and 50s—very early in the church’s official history. No one wanted to meet Christ in a drunken state, and the use of tobacco was discouraged for both health and proper financial stewardship reasons. The 1850s saw a few general health appeals from Ellen White and small groups of believers who had adopted some health reform, but there was not yet anything that spanned the whole movement.

1863 was a significant year for Sabbatarian Adventists. They had officially established themselves as a denomination early in the year, and in June, Ellen White had a forty-five-minute vision on health reform while she and her husband were staying at the Hillard home in Otsego, Michigan. As with previous visions, the information she received was not entirely new to the movement, as others had already emphasized the major points. Ellen White saw that the subject of temperance was far broader than just abandoning alcohol and included physical activity and healthful eating. She was shown the benefits of regular exercise, fresh air, rest, sunshine, and water, and she saw that a plant-based diet is the most beneficial.

Ellen White started to publicly share at camp meetings what she had seen in vision, but it wasn’t until a year later that she wrote down a full overview of the vision in a chapter titled “Health” in the fourth volume of Spiritual Gifts (120–150). As these writings were shared amongst the believers, it was necessary to differentiate between what was simply the best practice and what was biblically mandated. Because our church is a global church and the Bible is relevant to all, the core principles of a healthy lifestyle transcend culture and geographic location. Although the Adventist Church today teaches that a vegetarian lifestyle is healthiest, it doesn’t require its members to be vegetarian. Instead, it allows believers to follow the biblical differentiation between clean and unclean meats that was established before the Flood and affirmed in the Mosaic law.

Making practical changes in our lives is the natural result of spiritual revival. All of Paul’s epistles include both theological teaching and practical instruction. Paul wrote Romans as a letter to the church in Rome during his three-month stay in the city of Corinth on his third missionary journey. The book teaches broad, overarching doctrines such as sanctification by faith, justification by faith, and righteousness by faith. Chapter 12 marks the transition from a theoretical explanation to a practical application in the believer’s day-to-day life. Paul is convinced that the logical response, after eleven chapters of learning about the theology of righteousness by faith, is that a believer would offer their life as one of self-sacrifice and service.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`Why do you think most Christians live as though physical health has little to do with being a true Christian?`

`What does it mean to be a living sacrifice?`