---
title:  A Dedication of the Entire Being
date:   20/11/2023
---

### inTerpret

Romans 12:1 is one of many places in his writings where Paul emphasized the idea that our bodies are not our own. He invited each member of the church to respond to the overwhelming “mercies of God” by presenting their bodies as a “living sacrifice” to God. Those who stand in awe of God’s love in presenting His Son as a sacrifice for our sins are moved to present their own lives to God as a living sacrifice ready for service.

God does not ask us to do for Him what He is not willing to do for us. God wants total commitment from us—He wants us to bring our entire being—body, mind, and soul—to Him. Health of mind and soul depends largely on the condition of the body. We see this principle elsewhere in Paul’s writings when he refers to the body as a “temple” (1 Cor. 3:16; 6:19). When the body-temple is rundown, its ability for service and worship becomes enfeebled.

Satan is well aware of this principle and does all he can to twist it to his benefit and our detriment. One of the many philosophies he spreads to achieve this goal goes something like this: “It’s your body, do what you want with it.” The issue at hand comes down to ownership and ultimately origins: do we own ourselves or does God own us? How we treat our bodies demonstrates what we truly believe about this important question.

We belong to God, first because God created us and second because He redeemed us from sin. Based on all God has done for us and all the mercy He has shown us, Paul appeals to us to be a living sacrifice—to present ourselves alive, with all our energy and power dedicated to God’s service. Paul calls this service reasonable or logical precisely because of God’s mercies. As we glorify God in our bodies, we will experience the same physical and mental blessings Daniel and his friends enjoyed in Daniel 1. By putting God first in their diet, Daniel and his friends made choices that optimized their health and gave them a significant advantage over their peers. Because of strict discipline and temperance, they were physically and intellectually unrivaled. God is focused on our whole being. He wants us to achieve peak physical, mental, and emotional health. Having the best health in every area of life allows us to make a greater impact in others’ lives.

Like Daniel and his friends, we also decide whether our diets will conform to this world or be transformed by God. The Bible speaks of three diets: the ideal, the acceptable, and the unacceptable. God gave the ideal diet to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden when He gave a plant-based diet that to this day promotes the best health and longest life (Gen. 1:29). After the Flood, God permitted us to eat of clean meats while prohibiting the consumption of blood and unclean meats (Lev. 11; Deut. 14:3–11). These Old Testament dietary categories were upheld by the Jerusalem counsel in the book of Acts when deciding which Mosaic laws new Gentile converts to Christianity needed to follow (Acts 15:20, 29).

Some would say diet is a more sensitive issue than some theological issues since the way we eat is personal, cultural, and habitual. What we do with our bodies is a personal choice, but we must always remember that we belong to God and therefore must treat our bodies as His possession.

There are two contrasting verbs in Romans 12:1 that represent two very divergent paths that lead to very different results: conform and transform. The transforming power of God can never accomplish what it needs to in our lives unless we are willing to break out of the mold of this world. We cannot conform to God and conform to this world at the same time. Accepting one is rejecting the other. The power of God does not bring only a superficial, fleeting change; God’s transformative work on our hearts is reflected in our innermost being—in our very nature. It happens from the inside out.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What benefits would you see from making healthier lifestyle choices?`