---
title:  The Foundation of the Christian Life
date:   22/11/2023
---

### inVite

Romans 12 tells us how we ought to respond to God’s love by making changes in how we live our lives. Health reform and lifestyle changes are too often done from the legalistic mindset that we can earn our way to salvation. While there’s an immediate benefit to healthy eating, if we do it from a place of legalism, our physical health improves while our spiritual health suffers. Jesus is always interested in foundations, for they are the most important part of any structure, and the foundation of the Christian life always comes back to the word “why.” It comes down to our motives. Doing the right thing for the wrong reasons always results in limited benefits.

The “why” behind living healthfully is clearly stated in verse 1: “the mercies of God.” None of us deserve life and we only have it thanks to Christ’s sacrifice. This simple truth ought to drive our choices. Too often, though, we seek a healthy lifestyle so we can live longer, feel better, avoid disease, and enjoy ourselves more. These are good, but they should be secondary motivations, not primary ones. Jesus gave us life and gave His life for us. In response, He asks that we give our lives to Him not only intellectually or spiritually but physically as well. He loves us and lives for us, and He wants us to reciprocate that love and commitment.

In view of the life of service Jesus lived for us, our highest desire should be to live a life of service for Him. We choose to lead healthy lives so we can maximize our service to God. We don’t want to cut God’s plan for us short because we’re suffering bad health from unwise choices and poor habits. Good physical health should enable us to accomplish a greater outward-focused mission in life. Some say healthy living makes us self-centered and egotistical, but if we live that way, our healthy life becomes more of a curse than a blessing. If healthy living adds ten years to our lives, may those extra ten mean another ten years of blessing others and advancing God’s work rather than another ten years of serving ourselves.

Healthy living not only potentially lengthens the years of our service but also increases the quality of the service we do in the present. Our minds become dull when our bodies are sluggish, and we find ourselves unable to execute our work with the same skill. People who carry heavy responsibilities at work or in ministry are tempted to neglect health for the sake of keeping up with their heavy workload. However, the greater the responsibilities we carry, the more important caring for our health becomes so we can do the very best we can in our work.

Paul describes whole-hearted service to God as “reasonable” (Rom 12:1). There are aspects of our lives that don’t make sense, but this is not one of them. Isaiah 1:18 says, “Come now, and let us reason together,” showing that God longs for an intellectual relationship with us that can handle questions, doubts, worries, and fears. He never expects blind obedience; He always gives us a choice, and He asks that we use that choice to love Him with our hearts, minds, and bodies.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How can we make sure we aren’t making choices from a legalistic mindset?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`