---
title:  Behold Our God!
date:  22/06/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 20–22**

**Behold Our God!**

Prophecy reminds us that we are on the very cusp of eternity. In just a short while, we will finally go home. Few things are as hopeful and moving as thinking of the exhilarating moment Jesus returns to earth. Unimaginable joy will flood the hearts of the redeemed when the sky finally breaks open and Christ appears in the glory of His Father, accompanied by millions of angels. Seeing the brightness of God’s throne pierce the dark clouds, God’s children will shout, “Behold, this is our God; we have waited for Him, and He will save us” (Isa. 25:9). His mighty lifegiving voice will thunder across the planet; the graves will open and release the redeemed to eternal life. Those who are alive will be transformed and glorified in an instant, and the wicked will perish in the light of Christ’s presence. Then, the moment for which all believers have waited will finally arrive: gravity will let go, and we will be lovingly lifted off this dark and broken planet. We will move through the air toward our beloved Savior, and we will be welcomed by the angels onto the cloud with Christ Jesus. Shouts of joy will swell into songs of praise, joining the ecstatic choir of angels. Filled with perfect joy, love, peace, and gratitude, we will know that we are forever safe, for “thus we shall always be with the Lord” (1 Thess. 4:17). Eternity with Christ awaits us.

What unadulterated joy that day will bring! No words can capture it; no art can properly portray it. While the Second Coming marks the physical separation of the redeemed from the wicked, it’s not quite the end of the great controversy. This week, we will focus on the final destruction of the wicked and the dawn of an eternity without sin.

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 20–22 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Revelation 21:1–8. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._