---
title:  The Great Controversy Is Over
date:  23/06/2024
---

#### inGest

The brightness of Jesus’ second coming will destroy the wicked (2 Thess. 2:8) and leave Satan and his demons stuck on a desolate, broken planet (Rev. 20:3). The redeemed will be taken to heaven, where, as “priests of God,” they will “reign with Him a thousand years” (v. 6). It’s during this time that the millennial judgment takes place (see Lesson 11). We can only imagine what experiences and insights the redeemed will gain during this time as they grow in their knowledge and appreciation of God and His judgments.

After the millennium in heaven, the redeemed will join God in the New Jerusalem and return to earth to execute judgment on Satan and the lost, finally putting the great controversy to an end. After the city descends, the wicked will be resurrected and Satan “will go out to deceive the nations” (Rev. 20:8) once more. He will lead the lost to trust in their massive numbers and attack God’s city in an attempt to kill Jesus and His people, but they will instead be met with their final judgment. As their lives of unrepented wickedness are on full display, they will be sentenced to the second, final death.

In this second death, the wicked will have to bear their guilt in the visible and piercing presence of our holy God and His holy law. They will be fully aware of all the sins they have ever committed and will have to stand without an intercessor, for they will have repeatedly rejected God’s offers of mercy, grace, restoration, and love. In that moment of seeing the perfected redeemed in the city, they will realize exactly what they’ve lost. They will suffer horrific regrets of all the years on earth they wasted clinging to sin and all the times they traded eternal life for fleeting moments of empty pleasure. Even so, they will not experience a sudden desire to be righteous. In that moment, divine fire “from God out of heaven” (Rev. 20:9) will devour them, cleansing the entire planet. The anguish, emotional pain, and awareness of their sin, guilt, and shame combined with the hopelessness of knowing there is no way back will likely outweigh the physical torture of the flames. The wicked may even welcome the consuming flames, for their miserable existence will finally be put to an end. Satan and his legions of fallen angels, who for thousands of years have terrorized and deceived humanity, will finally receive their punishment. God’s wrath and justice will be poured out in full measure, making an everlasting end to the horrific rebellion. Then, at long last, the battle will be over. Sin and Satan will be no more, justice will be served, and after thousands of years, the great controversy will be finished.

Journal:

`What does the wicked’s attitude after the millennium teach you about the nature of sin?`

`Why will no one doubt God’s justice after the judgment is over?`