---
title:  All Things New
date:  24/06/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Revelation 21 and 22 describe how God created humanity’s new home after the earth is destroyed by fire. We can hardly imagine what it will be like to see that God’s fire of justice has erased every trace of sin and He has finished His “strange work” (Isa. 28:21, KJV). The earth will once again be without form and void. But then, God’s powerful voice will call out, “Behold, I make all things new” (Rev. 21:5). For the first time in history, humans will witness God making the world a paradise. Being the ultimate designer and master artist, God will fashion a beautiful new earth for His beloved children. What a sight to see; what a moment to experience! All things new!

Creating a perfect and exceedingly beautiful world for us is only the beginning of a new story, as indicated in Revelation 21:3: “Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He will dwell with them, and they shall be His people. God Himself will be with them and be their God.” The once rebellious planet will become the headquarters of the universe, and the New Jerusalem will be its glorious capital. From then on, God will dwell there. Heaven will literally come to earth: “The city had no need of the sun or of the moon to shine in it, for the glory of God illuminated it. The Lamb is its light” (Rev. 21:23).

The redeemed will spend the millennium understanding, processing, and grieving the fate of unsaved family members and friends, but the final destruction of the wicked, though just, will bring fresh heartache. After one thousand years of holiness, peace, and sinlessness, their purified hearts must witness thousands of years of sin along with its destruction. There will understandably be tears and pain to deal with, even in the New Jerusalem. However, “And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes; there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away” (Rev. 21:4). God cares about healing our hearts. To make all things new, all things old must be healed.

God will create for us a new and perfect world. He will make sure every last bit of pain and trauma is recognized, addressed, and healed. He Himself will wipe our tears and provide the tree of life whose “leaves... were for the healing of the nations” (Rev. 22:2). All wounds and hurts will be gone forever.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What are some ways we can experience God’s recreating power in our lives today?`