---
title:  God Is Love
date:  26/06/2024
---

#### inVite

God is all about relationships. The triune God—Father, Son, and Holy Spirit—is a perfect unity of three equal Persons. God doesn’t just show and give love, He is love. Everything God thinks, says, does, and creates springs from love. He defines love by His eternal existence. Jesus gave up all to show the world what love is, who God is: selfless, benevolent, other-centered.

Throughout Scripture, God refers to us as His children. From Eden to the New Jerusalem, all His interactions with humanity reflect His desire for companionship with us. To Moses, He said, “Let them [the Israelites] make Me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them” (Exod. 25:8). He told Isaiah (7:14) that when His Son came to earth, His name would be “ ‘Immanuel,’ which is translated, ‘God with us’ ” (Matt. 1:23). Speaking of the moment His holy city descends to earth, He said, “Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He will dwell with them, and they shall be His people. God Himself will be with them and be their God” (Rev. 21:3). God’s love is the thread that holds His universe together. It’s the tune of life’s symphony, the frequency of happiness, the harmony of joy, and the force that makes life thrive and eternity worth experiencing.

The Bible promises us a hopeful future in which Love again reigns supreme after the disruption the great controversy caused. Total peace will again pervade the universe. Every potential and talent will be explored, cultivated, and unleashed for God’s glory. All creatures will grow infinitely in their knowledge of God and their love for Him as well as for each other. It will be a harmonious eternity of ever-increasing appreciation for our Creator, exploring His mighty wonders and works, and building ever-deepening friendships. Nothing on earth could ever compare! The great web of love will bind all created species from every galaxy together.

Unfortunately, the great controversy is not yet over, but knowing what you know now, after exploring its dynamics over the last thirteen weeks, you have a choice to make: Which side will you be on in this cosmic conflict? Will you take Jesus’ hand and walk from the shadows of sin into His light of love?

Our hearts are the battlefield of this war. Only surrendering to Jesus will provide us with victory. “He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God and he shall be My son” (Rev. 21:7). God loves you. He desperately desires that you be His child and live with Him forever.

What do you say?

Journal:

`Meditate on Revelation 20–22 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How will knowing Jesus on this side of eternity differ from knowing Him once the great controversy is over?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`