---
title:  Troubles, Hard Times, and Lists
date:   23/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Ezra 1:9–11; Daniel 1:1, 2; Ezra 2; Ezra 8:1–15; Deuteronomy 30:1–6.

> **MEMORY VERSE**: <p></p>
>  “So all these people now make this special promise to God. And they all ask for bad things to happen if they don’t [do not] keep their promise. All these people promise to follow the law of God. That law of God was given to us through [by] Moses his servant. These people promise with an oath to carefully obey all the commands, rules, and teachings of our Lord God” (Nehemiah 10:28, 29, ERV).

**WE OFTEN DO NOT READ THE LONG LISTS** of people and things in the Bible. But the Lord includes these lists for a reason. God cares about everything. His care for everything, big or small, shows us that He always remembers us. 

The lists of names in the Bible show us that God knows all about our families. The different lists of things show us something too. God cares about things that other people may feel are not important. Jesus says that God takes care of the birds. God even counts all the hairs on our heads! “ ‘When birds are sold, five small birds cost only two pennies. But God does not forget any of them. Yes, God even knows how many hairs you have on your head. Don’t [do not] be afraid. You are worth much more than many birds’ ” (Luke 12:6, 7, ERV). The God who cares about birds also cares about us.

So, we can fully trust God. He cares about every part of our lives. His care for us gives us comfort. It helps us care more about every part of our lives too.

_The God who cares about small birds also cares about us._