---
title: 'The God Of History'
date: 24/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Ezra 1:9–11 and Daniel 1:1, 2. How do the verses in Daniel help us understand the verses in Ezra?`

Both Ezra and Daniel talk about history. They tell the same story in these verses. But the way they tell the story is different. Do you see how Ezra gives us a list of things that the Babylonians took from God’s temple? When we compare the verses in Ezra to Daniel 1:1, 2, what do we see? Daniel shows us the big picture about what happened. So, we must read the verses in Ezra and Daniel together. Then we will see God is in control of everything that happens to His people on earth. 

“We can learn a lot from history. God gives each person and country a part in His big plan. Today, God tests humans. He tests the different countries on this earth. All people decide what will happen to them in the future by the choices they make now. God rules over all things. He will finish His plan to save us.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 536, adapted.

`Read Daniel 5. What does this chapter teach us about King Belshazzar? Why does God judge him?`

The Persians beat the Babylonians in October 539 b.c. Cyrus took the city of Babylon by surprise. Cyrus was the king of the Medo-Persian army. What does Belshazzar, king of Babylon, do the night that Cyrus takes Babylon? Belshazzar throws a wild party! During the wild party, a hand from heaven writes on the palace wall. The words on the wall warn that Belshazzar will soon die. Did Belshazzar learn nothing from what happened in the past to King Nebuchadnezzar? Nebuchadnezzar’s heart was filled with pride. So, God caused the king to act the same as an animal. The king ate grass for seven years. At the end of that time, God made the king’s mind new. Then Nebuchadnezzar gave his heart to God. That story was a warning. Sadly, Belshazzar learned nothing from Nebuchadnezzar’s story. 

Daniel explains the writing on the wall. But it is too late to save Belshazzar. He made bad choices in life. These choices cause him to be killed.

`How can we make sure we do not make the same mistake that Belshazzar makes? How can looking at the Cross help?`

_During the wild party, a hand from heaven writes on the palace wall._