---
title: 'In Their Cities'
date: 25/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read the lists in Ezra 2 and Nehemiah 7. What do you see in each of them?`

Ezra 2 gives a list of people who leave Babylon. Zerubbabel and Joshua lead them to Jerusalem. This same list is written again in Nehemiah 7. There is a reason for that. Yes, these lists may seem boring to us. But they show us an important idea. God cares about the things that may not seem important to us.

At this time, the people finish building Jerusalem’s walls. The Bible wants to show us something about the 1st group of people who already came back to Jerusalem. They all work together to help build the walls. They know that their success comes from God alone. The newest group of Jews who come back to Jerusalem help finish the work that the 1st group starts. They all work together. It is a hard job. The people face many problems along the way. They also do not finish the work as soon as they wish to. But they keep working anyway until they finish the wall. 

Much of their success comes from Ezra and Nehemiah. These men are excellent leaders. They encourage the people to work hard and not give up. The lists in Ezra 2 and Nehemiah 7 show us something else. We see that the start of the work in Ezra 2 is connected to the end of the work in Nehemiah 7. The second temple is finally built. Not only that, the people also rebuild the city of Jerusalem too.

`Read Nehemiah 7:73. In this verse, we see how much the people want to honor God’s plan for their lives. Do the people have success? If yes, how much success do they have?`

“So these people all settled in their own towns” (Nehemiah 7:73, ICB).

This verse shows us that God blesses His people with a lot of success. They finished building the temple. Now, they can all go home. 

In many ways, the work the people do is a miracle. The Babylonians took the Jews prisoners and carried them away from their country. Their temple was destroyed. So was their city. But they come back. They build it again. It is a real miracle. Everything happens just as God promised.

_Everything happens just as God promised._