---
title: 'Where Are The Priests Or Religious Leaders'
date: 26/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

As we read yesterday, God works a miracle to bring His people back home from Babylon. 

Of course, there are problems. Yes, the Jews know God made them many wonderful promises. He promised to help them rebuild their city. But many Jews do not want to go back to Jerusalem. They want to stay in Babylon. 

`Read Ezra 8:1–15. Look carefully at Ezra 8:15. What is the big problem the people have?`

As we said, not all Jews in Babylon want to go home to Jerusalem. Why is that? There are several reasons. Many of the Jews were born in Babylon. They lived their whole lives there. Babylon is the only city they know. So, many of the Jews do not want to make the long trip back to a land they never knew. The Jews who go back to Jerusalem have another problem. They have trouble finding Levites who will come back to Jerusalem to take care of the temple. We will learn more about that on Thursday.

“By now, the Jews who stayed in Babylon lived there for almost 150 years. We know that many rich Jews lived in the land of Nippur during the time of King Artaxerxes the 1st. So, we think Ezra had a hard time trying to get these rich Jews to leave Babylon to go back to Jerusalem. Life in Jerusalem is going to be hard. It is a lot easier to stay in Babylon. Life there is more comfortable too. So, it is very surprising that Ezra convinces almost 2,000 families to come back with him to Jerusalem.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 3, page 376, adapted. 

`“ ‘We must suffer many things on our way into God’s kingdom’ ” (Acts 14:22, ERV). What does this verse mean? What does it tell us about the troubles and tests that we will meet in this life? Why are these things a part of the experience of the people who choose to serve the Lord?`

_“We think Ezra had a hard time trying to get [the] rich Jews to leave Babylon.”_