---
title:  HEARTS WITH NO PRIDE
date:   27/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Deuteronomy 30:1–6. What promise in these verses does God give to the Hebrew people? How do you think Ezra and Nehemiah feel about this promise? How much do you think this promise means to them?`

Ezra and Nehemiah know about God’s promises to His people. They know that God will bring His people out of Babylon to their home. In Nehemiah 9, we learned that the people also understand their history. They know the reason for their troubles. At the same time, they know God has a heart of mercy. He will lead them and show them love when they turn from their sins.

So, the people trust in the Lord. He will give them success. God’s promises do not mean that the people will have no problems along the way. 

`Read Ezra 8:16–23. What is the problem in these verses? What do the people do to solve it?`

Yes, there are problems. One of them is the trip home. Ezra knows there will be a lot of danger on the way. So, he prays to God. He fasts, or stops eating food for a short time. He shows that he has a heart with no pride in it. He shows God that he knows how much everything depends on God. Yes, there are many dangers ahead. But Ezra does not ask the King of Persia for help as Nehemiah does (Nehemiah 2:9). No, Ezra chooses not to ask the Persian king for help. Maybe Ezra wants to show the Persian king that God will protect His people. Ezra said, “ ‘I was embarrassed [ashamed] to ask King Artaxerxes for soldiers and horsemen to protect us as we traveled. There were enemies on the road. The reason I was embarrassed [ashamed] to ask for protection was because of what we had told the king. We had said to King Artaxerxes, ‘Our God is with everyone who trusts him, but he is very angry with everyone who turns away from him’ ” (Ezra 8:22, ERV). In the end, everything works out. Later, Ezra writes that the Lord protected them (Ezra 8:31). They made it home safely.

`Of course, we must trust in God for everything. At the same time, when should we ask nonbelievers for help? Why is that often the right thing to do?`

_Ezra tells the king, “ ‘Our God is with everyone who trusts him’ ” (Ezra 8:22, ERV)._