---
title:  IN THE HOLY CITY
date:   28/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 11:1, 2. What happens in these verses? Why do the people “dr[a]w [choose] names”? (Nehemiah 11:1, NLV). What do they need to decide?`

What does Nehemiah 11 show us? The people need to decide who will live in Jerusalem. 

Life in the country is better than in the city. In the country, people have their own land. But if they live in the city, they must give up their land. Not many people want to do that. 

How hard do you think it must be to move to a new city or country to share the Good News about Jesus? You must be open to new experiences, right? You must be willing to face hard times too.

“Our workers do not do enough to share the Good News with other people. Our leaders must wake up. They must see the work that needs to be done. I think about the cities where we have done only a little work. Thousands of people live in these cities. They must be warned that Jesus is coming soon. I feel a deep wish to see our men and women go to work in these cities. They must work in the power of the Holy Spirit. They must be filled with Jesus’ love for souls. These souls need a Savior.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 7, page 40, adapted.

`Look at the list of priests, or religious leaders, and Levites in Nehemiah 12:1–26. Why do you think this list is in this chapter? What is the connection between these people and the wall in Nehemiah 12:27–47?`

God wants things to be done the right way. He needs people who want to serve Him with all their hearts. Then God can use these people to do big things. The families of the priests help Nehemiah build the wall. Then they can safely worship God in the temple. Walls are important. They protect people. But strong walls around the temple are not enough. The temple needs priests too. With no priests, there will be no true worship in the temple. So, we can see that all of God’s people have a part to do in His work.

_The people in the cities “must be warned that Jesus is coming soon.”_