---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   29/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

Ellen G. White, “The Test of Discipleship,” pages 57–65, in Steps to Christ. 

“There are people who know Jesus’ love and forgiveness. These people want to be God’s children. But they know that they are not perfect. They made many mistakes in life. So, they are ready to doubt that the Holy Spirit made their hearts new. I want to say something to these people: Do not pull back from God. Do not be sad. We shall often have to bow down at Jesus’ feet and cry. We will cry because we failed and made mistakes. But do not lose hope. Even if Satan causes us to fail, God does not throw us away. No, Jesus sits at God’s right hand. Jesus asks God to forgive us. . . . God wants to make you new. He wants to bring you close to Himself again. God wants to see His own clean and holy life shine in you. So, give yourself fully to God. He started a good work in your heart. He will not stop until that work is finished. Then Jesus will come. So, pray harder. Believe more fully. Do not trust in your own power to save yourself. Trust only in the power of our Savior. Praise Him. He gives us health.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 64, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**: 

`1. In Daniel 2, we see that Daniel saw the future many hundreds of years ago. He shows us a true picture of future happenings. How does Daniel’s prophecy, or special message, give you comfort and hope? Yes, sometimes life is crazy and awful things happen. But how does Daniel 2 show you that God knows everything about the future before it happens? How does that knowledge help you to trust that He is in control?`

`2. God knows all about us. This thought gives us comfort and helps us feel safe. We know that we are in His care (read Isaiah 43:1). How can you help other people to know that God loves them and is with them, even in hard times?`

`3. In Wednesday’s study, we learn that Ezra does not want to ask the king for help. What is Ezra afraid the king will think if he asks the king for help? Let us think about the answer to this question by looking at another example. We know that God heals us. But what if we go to a doctor when we get sick? Does that mean we show no faith in God to heal us? Talk about this idea some more with your class.`

_“We shall often have to bow down at Jesus’ feet and cry.”_