---
title: 'Jesus Wins, Satan Loses'
date: 25/03/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Revelation 12:7–9; Revelation 12:4–6; Revelation 12:10; Revelation 12:14–16; Revelation 12:17.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Then the dragon was very angry at the woman. He went off to make war against all her other children. Her children are those [people] who obey God’s commands and have the truth that Jesus taught” (Revelation 12:17, ICB).

Cormac O’Brien wrote a book about armies. The name of the book is Outnumbered: Incredible Stories of History’s Most Surprising Battlefield Upsets. The book tells stories about how small armies won big wars. One story is about Hannibal’s army. Hannibal was a general from the city of Carthage in Bible times when Rome was a worldwide kingdom. Hannibal had only 55,000 soldiers. But his army beat the Roman army, which had 80,000 men. Cormac O’Brien also tells the surprising story about how the Greek army of Alexander the Great beat the mighty army of the kingdom of Persia.

We also are in a life-and-death fight. Satan, our enemy, is sly and tricky. He has a very big army. Satan’s soldiers think they can’t lose.

Don’t lose hope. Yes, God’s army on this earth is small. Satan’s attacks are nasty. But Jesus will win the war in the end. This Bible truth is the message from Revelation, the last book in the Bible. Jesus wins. Satan loses. We can read about this final fight in Revelation 12, which we will study this week. This study will help us understand better Revelation 14 and the Three Angels’ Messages.