---
title: 'The Fight In Heaven'
date: 26/03/2023
---

Revelation 12 shows us the worldwide war between good and evil. This fight started in heaven and will end here on earth. Chapter 12 gives us important information about Satan’s war in heaven and his attacks on God’s people on earth in the end times.

`Read Revelation 12:7–9, which talks about the worldwide war between good and evil. How was it possible for this war to happen in heaven? What do these verses teach us about free choice?`

Freedom of choice is an important part of God’s government, both in heaven and on earth. God did not make anyone to be a robot. Not in heaven and not on earth. God made both angels and humans free to choose between good and evil.

Our freedom to choose is connected to our freedom to love. What happens if God removes the freedom of choice from humans? Then we can’t choose to love. Love can’t be forced. Love is a free choice. Every angel in heaven had to choose between God’s love and selfish pride. In the same way, the book of Revelation shows us that we each must make a choice between God and Satan in the end times.

Everyone must choose between good and evil in earth’s final war. We follow Jesus, or we fight against Him (read Luke 11:23). Every angel chose Jesus’ side or Satan’s side in the war in heaven. So, too, all humans must choose between God and Satan in the end times. Who will you be loyal to? Who will you worship? Who will you obey? These are the questions everyone must answer.

Revelation 12 gives us hope and some wonderful news: Jesus wins in the war between good and evil. All we need to do is choose to follow Jesus. He is the winner.

`Think about the freedom to choose between right and wrong. This is a very precious and holy gift. Jesus gave the human family this gift. What did we do with this gift? We chose sin and evil. So, Jesus had to die on the cross (read 2 Timothy 1:9). But did that stop Jesus from giving us free choice? No, He gave us this precious gift anyway. What does this Bible truth teach us about how we must be careful with this gift? How much did this gift cost Jesus?`