---
title: 'Satan’s Attack'
date: 27/03/2023
---

From the start, Satan tried to destroy Jesus Christ (Revelation 12:4, 5). Satan failed every time. When Jesus was born, an angel warned Joseph and Mary about King Herod’s evil plans. So, Joseph and Mary escaped to Egypt. Many years later, Jesus met Satan in the desert. Satan tried to get Jesus to sin. But Jesus answered all of Satan’s tricks with Bible verses. Jesus protected Himself with Bible truth. When Jesus died on the cross, He showed how much He loved us. Jesus saved us from the penalty of sin. When Jesus woke up from the dead, He went to heaven to help us. Now Jesus works in God’s temple to save us from sin.

**Read Revelation 12:4–6, 9; Ephesians 5:25–27, 32; and Psalm 2:7–9. These verses show us three symbols or word pictures: a woman, a male child, and an “iron stick” (Revelation 12:5, WE). What do these symbols mean?**

`Woman`

`Male Child`

`Iron Stick`

In the Bible, a stick is a word picture or symbol for a powerful king. An iron stick is a symbol for an all-powerful government. What do these word pictures show us? They show us that Jesus is a powerful king. Jesus won the fight against Satan while He lived on earth. Jesus won the fight against Satan when He woke up from the dead. Because Jesus won, we can win, too. Satan tried to get Jesus to sin in every way that he tries to get us to sin. So, Jesus understands our experience. For sure, Satan is a loser. But the worldwide war between God and Satan isn’t over yet.

We accept by faith what Jesus has done for us. Jesus forgives our sins. God forgives our sins and makes us holy. So, we stand perfect in front of God. Paul explains this wonderful Bible truth in these words: “Now that I belong to Christ, I am right with God and this being right does not come from my following the law. It comes from God through [because of] faith. God uses my faith in Christ to make me right with him” (Philippians 3:9, ICB). When we believe in Jesus, He gives us everything He won.