---
title: 'Accepting Everything Jesus Won For Us'
date: 28/03/2023
---

The Bible shows us that Jesus never lost a fight with Satan. Jesus is a mighty warrior. Jesus wins against Satan’s evil army. So, we must believe that everything Jesus won He won for us, too.

`Read Revelation 12:10. This verse says, “ ‘the accuser of our brothers and sisters has been thrown out’ ” (ERV). Who is the accuser? Why does this news about what happened to Satan help you feel better?`

Yes, the worldwide war between good and evil continues to this day. But Satan has lost. That is good news! Jesus will win the war against evil at the Second Coming. The news keeps getting better. Jesus also wins the fight against evil for us in our personal lives. Some Christians live in fear. They are always worried about fighting sin in their own strength. They don’t really understand in their personal lives how much Jesus won for them.

`Read Revelation 12:11. What hope of winning does Jesus give us in this verse?`

Jesus gives messages to each of the seven churches in the book of Revelation. In each message, Jesus talks about “ ‘anyone who has victory [wins] over sin’ ” (Revelation 2:7, 11, 17, 26, NIrV; Revelation 3:5, 12, 21, NIrV). The word written as “victory [wins]” comes from the Greek word “nikao.” “Nikao” can mean “to win” or “to beat in a fight.” Do you see in these verses how Jesus says seven times that it’s possible for us to win the war against sin? Revelation 12:11 tells us how we win. We win “because of the blood of the Lamb and by telling what He had done for them” (NLV).

In Revelation 5:6, God gives John a special dream about heaven. John sees a Lamb in his dream. This Lamb looks as if it had been killed. This Lamb is a word picture for Jesus. John’s dream shows us that all heaven is paying attention to Jesus and His death for us on the cross. The cross shows God’s love for us more than anything else can. So, we must accept with faith everything Jesus did for us. Then God will forgive our sins (Colossians 1:14; Ephesians 1:7; Colossians 2:14). Praise God that Satan, who likes to blame us, is thrown out of heaven! We are saved because of Jesus.