---
title: 'The Woman In The Desert'
date: 29/03/2023
---

`Read Revelation 12:6 and compare it to Revelation 12:14–16. These verses talk about Satan’s attack on the woman. The woman is a word picture for God’s church. How long does Satan’s attack on the woman continue?`

Revelation 12:6 says that God took care of the “woman” for 1,260 days. The 1,260 days in Revelation are the same as the three-and-a-half years in Revelation 12:14. The Bible also talks about this same time in Daniel 7:25, Revelation 11:2, 3, and Revelation 13:5. The woman in Revelation 12 is not a real woman. (A real woman with wings did not go into the desert!) So, we understand that the woman is a word picture. We also understand that the times in these verses in Daniel and Revelation also are word pictures. We must use the day-year rule to understand what these times mean. The Bible gives us the day-year rule in Numbers 14:34 and Ezekiel 4:4–6. The day-year rule helps us understand that a day is the same as a year in a special message about time. The Andrews Study Bible says, “Down through history, many Bible thinkers believed the 1,260 days were 1,260 years. The 1,260 years started in a.d. 538 and ended in 1798.”—Page 1,673, comments on Revelation 11:2, adapted. During the 1,260 years, the church in the Middle Ages worked together with the kings and queens of Europe to hurt God’s loyal people.

The attacks against God’s people during the 1,260 years were part of the worldwide war between God and Satan. During this time, people started to study the Bible. They saw that the church was not following the Bible. Men and women needed to make a choice. Would they obey God and the Bible? Or would they accept the teachings of the church? Many people chose to obey God. Sad to say, the church hurt many of these people because they believed in the teachings of the Bible.

Revelation 12 shows us how much God cares for His church. In Revelation 12:6, God makes a safe place for the woman. Revelation 12:14 says that God takes care of her. Revelation 12:16 says that “the earth helped the woman” (ERV). So, God took care of His church when Satan attacked it. God will do the same for His end-time church, too.

`Think of a hard time in your life when God took care of you. How did God help you when you needed it most?`