---
title: 'God’s End-Time People'
date: 30/03/2023
---

As we saw earlier this week, Satan started a war in heaven against God (Revelation 12:7). Satan has fought with Jesus ever since. Satan’s plan is the same now as it was then. He wants to get control of everything in heaven and on earth (read Isaiah 14:12–14). Satan will make a special attack on God’s people in the end times. Revelation 12:17 announces that the dragon (a word picture for Satan) is angry at the woman (the church). The dragon makes war with the woman’s children. Another word for her children is “remnant.” The King James Bible uses this word. A remnant is a piece of cloth left over from a larger roll of cloth. In the same way, a remnant is a small group of people who stay in God’s church at the end of time. This group of people stays loyal to God and obeys Bible truth. They have faith in God’s kingdom.

`Read about God’s remnant people in Revelation 12:17. The remnant is a word picture for God’s end-time church. What does this verse teach us about God’s remnant? Who are they, and what do they do that makes them special?`

In Revelation 12:17, Satan (the dragon) is angry with the woman, God’s end-time church. The devil is angry because this church keeps God’s commandments. So, Satan will do everything he can to destroy them.

Finally, Satan makes a law against God’s people so they cannot buy or sell. God’s people will be thrown into prison or put to death (read Revelation 13:14–17). Satan tried to destroy Jesus. He failed. So, now Satan will try to destroy the thing that Jesus loves most: His church. The final war on earth will not happen in the Middle East. This war will happen in our hearts. This war is between Jesus Christ and Satan. Everyone on earth must choose a side.

The most important questions in this final war are, “Who has our loyalty and love? Who has our hearts?” Has Jesus’ love touched your heart? Have you been saved by His mercy? Have you given your life to serve Him? Does His Spirit control your life? Do you obey His commands? Are you willing to die for the One who died for you? The final war is coming. Because of Jesus, we will win if we stay connected to Him. The choice is ours.

`How is the war between God and Satan happening in your own life?`