---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 31/03/2023
---

We can say that God really had no choice: if He wanted us to love Him freely, He had to make us free. If we are not free, then we cannot love. What is life in heaven or on earth without love? If we are not free, then we are the same as machines or robots. Machines and robots do the work they were made to do. But they have no free choice. That is a sad way to live, right? We can be glad that the Bible teaches that we are free to choose to love God and obey Him.

“God’s law is love. Love is the law of His government. When the angels and people in heaven kept this law, then they were happy. God wants everyone to serve Him because they love Him. We will want to serve God more when we know who He really is. God is not happy when people feel forced to obey Him. So, God makes people free. He gives them choice. Then they can choose to serve Him or not.

“When everyone was loyal to God and served Him from love, there was peace everywhere in heaven. The angels felt joy in doing whatever God asked. They were happy to show other people and angels that God was very mighty and filled with love. The angels loved to praise God. The angels loved God more than they loved anything else. Their love for each other was not selfish. No sin or selfish behavior destroyed the peace that the angels felt.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 34, 35, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How does Revelation 12 help us understand the Three Angels’ Messages? That is, how does Revelation 12 help us understand what will happen in the end times?`

`How does Revelation 12 give you hope to be strong during all the tests and troubles you have each day?`

`Some people believe that we can’t control our thoughts, feelings, or behavior. These people believe that we behave the way we do because we are born that way or because of where and when we were born. Do you agree or disagree? Explain your answer. How do our choices control our behavior?`