---
title:  inTro
date:   06/09/2026
---

**Read This Week’s Passage:** John 19:25–42

### The Veil Torn

Have you ever experienced a deep loss in a relationship? Maybe you said something you wished you hadn’t, or someone made choices that led to a chasm in the relationship. God, too, has experienced deep loss.

In the Garden of Eden, God enjoyed visiting Adam and Eve and speaking with them face to face. Sin broke this relationship and caused a deep separation (Isa. 59:2). Satan convinced our first parents to adopt views of God that were harmful, which led them to make choices that shattered their intimate relationship with Him.

To bring reconciliation, God proposed that a sanctuary be built, “that I may dwell among them” (Exod. 25:8). He designed the sanctuary to show His people what it would take to restore their face-to-face connection.

The portable tabernacle Moses built established the pattern that later temples followed. King Solomon built the first permanent temple in Jerusalem. Centuries later, the Babylonians destroyed that temple. A second temple was built during the time of Ezra and Nehemiah, which Herod restored and expanded in the first century B.C. This was the temple that stood during Christ’s time.

The temple had a courtyard enclosed by a fence or wall. Within the courtyard stood a structure containing two compartments: the Holy Place and the Most Holy Place. Inside the Most Holy Place was the Ark of the Covenant, which represented God’s throne. Above the ark stood two covering cherubs with folded wings, a symbol of the angels who surround God’s throne in heaven (Ps. 80:1), and inside the ark rested the two stone tablets God gave to Moses on Mt. Sinai. Because man could no longer see God face to face without being destroyed, God instructed Moses to install a veil in front of the Ark of the Covenant to serve as a protective barrier for the priests as they ministered.

When a transgressor brought a sacrifice to the sanctuary and killed it, the priest took the blood of that sacrifice and sprinkled it in front of this veil before the Ark of the Covenant, which contained the law the transgressor had broken. This process allowed the transgressors to go home forgiven of their sins, knowing they were at peace with God.

Once a year, on the Day of Atonement, the high priest went behind that veil—but only after filling the compartment with the smoke of incense. This ensured God’s presence was still somewhat veiled while the priest placed the blood of the sacrificed goat on the mercy seat.

For hundreds of years, this system foreshadowed the eventual sacrifice of Jesus, “the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world” (John 1:29). Countless sacrifices were offered, and an incalculable amount of blood was sprinkled in front of the veil that separated the Holy Place from the Most Holy Place through those centuries. Then, in A.D. 31, as the priest prepared to slay a lamb for the evening offering, the true spotless Lamb was being crucified outside the city. As Jesus breathed His last, the earth quaked, the rocks split, and the veil of the temple was torn from top to bottom, clearly an act of God (Matt. 27:51). Just as that protective barrier between God’s presence and His children was torn open, so Christ opened the way for sinners to be forgiven, cleansed, and restored again to the presence of God.

The apostle Paul tells us that the veil represented Christ’s flesh (Heb. 10:20). That veil was torn as Christ’s body was broken for us. Christ’s death on the cross tore down the barriers and made it possible for us to come to God. The tearing of the veil also indicated that the earthly sanctuary was no longer needed, for the price of sin had been paid in full. Jesus’ death forever signaled “an end to sacrifice and offering” (Dan. 9:27). It signaled a new era in which we need only to look to Christ, who serves as High Priest in the heavenly sanctuary.

### inScribe

Make an outline or mind map of John 19:25–42. Especially focus on verses 28–33, writing them out from the translation of your choice or rewriting them in your own words.

Review your scribed passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [Arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`What special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`