---
title:  inGest
date:   07/09/2026
---

### Personal Conversations

As Jesus hung on the cross, one wouldn’t think He had time or energy for personal conversations, yet the Gospels record two very important interactions.

Jesus was crucified between two thieves. Matthew’s account tells us that both criminals crucified next to Christ initially reviled Him (Matt. 27:44). However, one of the men’s hearts softened as he watched Jesus suffer with dignity (Luke 23:40–42). He realized that Jesus is the Son of God and wanted to know if there’s room for him in the kingdom. Jesus ministered to this man and assured him that because he saw his own need, he will indeed be granted access to that kingdom. Even while He was dying, Jesus still reached out to save, winning yet another soul for His kingdom.

Another form of ministry happened later. Jesus’ mother, Mary, was at the cross. Imagine what that experience must’ve been like for her: watching helplessly as her own innocent Son, miraculously given to her by God Himself, was being killed in the cruelest and most inhumane way. Jesus knew the weight of the burden she carried in that moment.

The disciple John was with Mary (John 19:25–27). He’s the only one of the twelve disciples who actually followed Jesus all the way to the cross. Peter followed as far as the high priest’s courtyard, but fled to Gethsemane after his third denial. At the cross, it was just John, Mary Jesus’ mother, and many of the other women who followed Him, including Mary Magdalene.

Here, Jesus had an important conversation with His mother and with John. He looked to His mother and said, “Behold your son!” (John 19:26). To John He said, “Behold your mother!” (John 19:27). John moved Mary into his home and cared for her from that day forward. While Jesus had plenty to focus on during His sufferings, He took time to ensure His mother would be cared for and entrusted her wellbeing to one of His closest friends. Jesus showed the importance of family relationships and being faithful in domestic responsibilities. Even while the destiny of the world hung in the balance, Jesus carved out time to provide for His mother.

It’s incredible to think that Jesus, while suffering tremendously under the crushing weight of sin and the pain of crucifixion, was still so focused on others. As we read in 1 Corinthians 13:5, love “does not seek its own.” Even while on the cross, Jesus was seeking the wellbeing others.

**Questions to consider:**

`What does Jesus’ display of unselfish love even in the midst of great suffering reveal about His great love for you personally? How can you best respond to that?`