---
title:  inTerpret
date:   08/09/2026
---

### It Is Finished!

Although He sometimes forgot His physical pain because of the much more intense internal anguish, Jesus did suffer acute physical pain during His crucifixion. After hanging on the cross for hours, Jesus longed for a drink of water. When He cried out, “I thirst” (John 19:28), He was looking for something to ease the physical torment He was feeling. Moved with compassion, a soldier offered Him vinegar on a sponge. In fulfillment of prophecy, the suffering Savior did not receive so much as a sip of water (Ps. 69:21).

Finding no relief, Jesus cried out again, “It is finished!” Then He bowed His head and breathed His last (John 19:30). He had spent thirty-three and a half years revealing who the Father truly is and had finally fully defeated Satan. Satan tried to kill Him soon after His birth, tempted Him in the wilderness, incited the Pharisees and the crowd to call for His death, yet Jesus never once gave in to the attacks and temptations. He condemned sin in the flesh, and Satan’s days are now numbered. What a story! What a Savior!

The angels in heaven shuddered at the scene. This moment changed everything. “In the Saviour’s expiring cry, ‘It is finished,’ the death knell of Satan was rung. The great controversy which had been so long in progress was then decided, and the final eradication of evil was made certain.’”<sup>1</sup> With Jesus dead, the ugliness of sin and rebellion was put on full display for the whole universe to see.

The angels in heaven developed a new sense of admiration and loyalty toward their Creator and King after witnessing His costly sacrifice. “Then I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, ‘Now salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of His Christ have come, for the accuser of our brethren, who accused them before our God day and night, has been cast down’” (Rev. 12:10).

Jesus died shortly before sundown on Friday, with the Sabbath soon to arrive. He rested in the tomb all of Sabbath and was raised early on the first day of the week. This parallels the timeline of the creation story when “the heavens and the earth, and all the host of them, were finished. And on the seventh day God ended His work which He had done, and He rested on the seventh day from all His work which He had done” (Gen. 2:1, 2). Just like He did at Creation, Jesus rested on the Sabbath from His work of re-creation and redemption. Truly, “It is finished!” (John 19:30).

`What parts of this story do you need to grapple with? Are there new details or perspectives that you notice this time?`

`How do you imagine you would have felt watching Jesus’ death if you were one of the angels? How might this moment change everything for you?`

`Memorize your favorite passage from John 19:25–42. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Great Controversy_ (1911), 503.