---
title:  inVite
date:   10/09/2026
---

### Jesus’ Burial

The cross did not kill people quickly. Its victims suffered a slow, torturous death. Sometimes people remained alive on the cross for several days. Jesus died in a matter of hours (John 19:31–33), which surprised Pilate—a man who had plenty of experience with crucifixions (Mark 15:44). Jesus died not because the cross killed Him but because our sins killed Him while He was on the cross. Jesus’ early death also confirms that He was not forced into that situation; He chose His own destiny. “No one takes [My life] from Me, but I lay it down of Myself” (John 10:18).

After Jesus’ death, two prominent members of the Sanhedrin, the most powerful council in the nation of Israel, took action to provide a proper burial for His body. Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus had similar stories. Joseph was a secret follower of Jesus who did not support Christ’s death (Luke 23:51), and Nicodemus was a wealthy Pharisee and ruler of the Jews who had sought a private interview with Jesus early in His ministry (John 3:1–21) to discover who He truly was and the significance of His works. After that conversation, we hear little about Nicodemus apart from when he stood up for Jesus in one of the Pharisees’ meetings in John 7. He disappeared from the picture completely after that—until Jesus died.

Joseph and Nicodemus had been fearful about how their peers might perceive their interest in Jesus. However, this fear didn’t keep them from doing what God had placed on their hearts—especially at that pivotal moment. Both men came together to provide Jesus with a dignified burial. Joseph made his own tomb available and sought and received permission from Pilate to take Jesus’ body. Nicodemus brought nearly 100 pounds of myrrh and aloes to prepare His body for burial.

The Sabbath was drawing near, but the burial process remained incomplete. Careful to keep the Sabbath according to the commandment, Jesus’ friends had to pause their work until after the Sabbath (Luke 23:56). His friends give Him double honor in His burial. Many victims of crucifixion were left on the cross to decompose and be picked at by birds or other animals or were thrown into the city trash heap. Jesus was honored by receiving an actual burial from those who loved Him. His followers also honored Him by not finishing the burial process, choosing instead to honor the Sabbath according to the commandment He modeled to them at Creation and gave to them at Mount Sinai. Providing Jesus with a proper burial was an act of respect and love, but His followers believed that honoring the Sabbath would be an even greater way of honoring Him, and so they paused their work.

**Questions to consider:**

`Have you ever tried to be a secret follower of Jesus? Why do true followers of Jesus eventually allow their faith to be known?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`