---
title:  inQuire
date:   12/09/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Last words:**

1. What provisions did Jesus make for His mother in the midst of His suffering? What does this teach us about responsibility in family relationships? John 19:25–27
2. How much physical suffering and pain did Jesus feel while on the cross? How did His faith pull Him through? Luke 23:46; John 19:28; Heb. 12:2
3. What was finished at the cross? John 19:30; Heb. 2:14

`Personal reflection: Are there areas in your life where you still live as though Jesus has not conquered Satan? How can you walk daily in the victory that Christ secured on the cross?`

**His death:**

1. What was unusual about the timing of Christ’s death? John 19:31–33; Mark 15:44
2. What was the true reason for His death? Isa. 53:10–12; 1 Cor. 15:3
3. Did Jesus voluntarily lay down his life? John 10:17, 18

`Personal reflection: How does the fact that Jesus’ death was voluntary, not forced, change the way you view His love and sacrifice?`

**In the grave:**

1. What two men worked together to make arrangements for the proper burial of Jesus’ body? How was this a turning point in their journey? John 19:38–42
2. What’s another way Jesus’ friends honored Him in His burial? Luke 23:56

`Personal reflection: Two groups worked together to give Jesus an honorable burial: male religious leaders who kept their faith private and women who were bold and unafraid. What can we learn about working together with believers from different backgrounds?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Even in the midst of intense suffering, Jesus demonstrated His love by remaining focused on others. He promised salvation to the believing thief and He provided for His mother.
- Christ’s early death, which surprised His enemies, showed that it was not just the cross that killed Christ—our sins crushed out His life.
- After His death, Jesus’ friends showed Him honor both by providing a proper burial and by keeping the Sabbath holy.