---
title:  The Impact of Tithing
date:   17/02/2018
---

**Introduction:** Luke 21:1–4

### Giving My All

Jennifer was a single mom to her two-year-old daughter, Mia. Jennifer worked at a local grocery store in a small town in Kansas. Money was difficult to come by, and Jennifer found that after paying the apartment’s rent and buying groceries for Mia and herself, she didn’t have enough money for gas for her car. What could she do?

The church was close by, and on Sabbath Jennifer would walk with Mia to Sabbath School and worship. One Sabbath during worship, Jennifer was listening to the offering call. A village of African men and women needed money for a church. Praying about it, Jennifer opened up her Bible to Luke 21:1–4. She could hardly believe what the woman had done in the Bible.

**Do you feel you have given your all in tithing?**

Jennifer knew that tithing was what the pastor had talked about in his sermons. How could she afford to tithe? She barely had enough to put food on the table. “Lord,” she said, “I am asking you to give me faith. I will use my grocery money to pay tithe. Please help me to find a way to buy groceries and pay for gas. Amen.”

On Sabbath, Jennifer paid her tithe to God, even though she used all her grocery money to do it. On Monday, Jennifer got a call from her job offering her a manager position. Jennifer’s pay more than doubled, and she was able to have enough to buy groceries and plenty of gas for her car and have money left over to save for other needs.

Do you find yourself in Jennifer’s position? Do you feel you have given your all in tithing? Or are you afraid that you will be taking away from your needs by giving a tenth of what you owe to God? What does it really mean to tithe, and what is its purpose? How will God bless you by tithing and what does faith have to do with it?

In this week’s lesson we will be learning about the purpose of tithe, what the mission of tithing is, the storehouse, and tithe and salvation by faith.

_Ashley M. Wagner, New York, New York, USA_