---
title:  It’s Your Choice
date:   18/02/2018
---

**Evidence:** Genesis 14; Deut. 14:22–24; 26; Num. 18:21, 24

Tithing for the Christian is an action that should be between the individual and God. From the creation of the world, God has given humans the freedom of choice. He does not want His children to follow Him out of fear or obligation. Rather, He allows us to choose, whether good or bad.

Following the September 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States, there was a dramatic drop in the amount of tithe that was given by American Christians. The Bar na Research Group reported that only 3 percent of American adults tithed 10 percent of their income. Compared to the 8 percent that tithed on their income before the attacks, this represented a 62 percent decrease. Those individuals who chose to retract on their giving were using the freedom of choice God had given them.

**What better way to say, “You have given me the freedom of choice. I trust you God, with my life, finances, and all.”**

For Christians, the example of tithing is consistently demonstrated throughout Scripture. The earliest example is the story of Abram following his victory in battle and rescuing his nephew Lot. Abram came to Melchizedek and gave him a tenth of all of his gain. Abram acknowledged God’s blessing by freely giving something back to God.

Christians aren’t the only people groups to give a tithe on their income. Non- Christian governments and nations such as Nebuchadnezzar’s Babylon, the Greeks, Phoenicians, Romans, and Arabians all required that a portion of their citizens’ income be given to their gods.

Post-Reformation Europe had governments that collected mandatory tithes for churches. The individual had no choice in the matter. The government required and the people paid.

As a Seventh-day Adventist Christian, you have the choice to read the biblical evidence of returning tithe. Unlike Christians from other times and places, you are not required to submit a tithe.

A consistent return of tithe is a demonstration that we believe God is faithful to His promises. What better way to say, “You have given me the freedom of choice. I trust you God, with my life, finances, and all.”

**REACT**

`Describe your feelings if you were required to return a tithe. How would this affect your perception of God? Discuss why tithing is an act that God allows us to choose to do rather than making it a requirement. How does that affect your act of tithing?`

_Deena Bartel-Wagner, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_