---
title:  Portal to Justification
date:   19/02/2018
---

**Logos:** Gen. 14:18–20

Offerings to God have existed since the time of Creation, but tithing began with Abram’s gift to Melchizedek. There is no indication in Scripture that the priest requested a tithe from Abram. God had blessed him in his battle against far greater forces, and Abram must surely have recognized it. Then with the pronounced blessing by the priest, God expressed the relationship He saw between Abram and Himself. Both benefited from the relationship. This is to be the eternal connection between the Giver of all good gifts and the returner of tithe. From this shrouded beginning, tithe has been based on blessings already received and on God’s plan to shower us with more than we can receive. In some cases, this may include material rewards, but the real gift is eternity.

This does not make tithe a quid pro quo. It is not automatic—“you pay your tithe and you get to go to heaven.” Rather, the grateful heart that is continually right with God and just naturally longs to worship Him with the gift of tithe is the heart that is ready for heaven.

**If we can be honest with ourselves, it is a guide we may use to know whether we are on the pathway to heaven.**

**Romans 4:1–5**

The security of banks may be unreliable, and any material holding is susceptible to loss. God would not give fleeting gifts.

There seemed to be no expectation on the part of the priest of gifts. The giving of the tithe was not an act of works, it was one of worship. God and Abram already belonged to a mutual-admiration society—that was clear from the blessing of the priest.

Abram already believed in God and was familiar with His fulfilled promises. This kind of proactive belief is faith, and this faith swelled up in Abram and overflowed through a gift of the tithe of the spoils of war. God had given Abram the victory and its overwhelming bounty. None of it had been earned. It could not have been won had not God intervened. All that Abram had when he returned from war was a gift from God. In faith, Abram gave to God (through Melchizedek) an offering showing his gratefulness for having been used by God to free the people of Sodom from their attackers. “ ‘Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness’ ” (Rom. 4:3, NKJV). God imparted, or gave, righteousness to Abram. He justified Abram. Man was covered with the righteousness of God and was returned to the image of God in which man had been created. He was ready for heaven. The spontaneous gift of tithe was simply an outer indication of the faith that was in the heart of Abram.

**Jeremiah 17:7, 8**

Trust comes from having had sufficient previous experience with someone and knowing that promises have been kept. In such a case, there is no reason to suppose that the future will be different. That is what gives hope. It is why the second coming of Christ is called the blessed hope. All the Old Testament promises concerning the birth and life of Jesus were fulfilled. His suffering and death convince us that God meant all He said about the destruction of sin and our salvation. His resurrection proves that He has the power to do everything He has said He will do. Nothing could instill more trust. Nothing can give us more hope.

Jeremiah 17:7, 8, which discusses trust in God, is in juxtaposition to verses 5 and 6. They warn that to trust man is to suffer the curse of disappointment in the future, as well as failing to focus on the One who alone can give us true hope. It is not that no one can ever be trusted, just that no one who sins is capable of being totally trustworthy. Our intentions may be excellent, but herein lies the difficulty. Verse 9 reminds us that our best intentions can be overridden by our own deceitful heart. We are brought back to the need we have to find real hope, and the need God has to know that we truly trust and surrender to Him. Returning tithe as worship, without request and expectation, shows that we may be nearing the blessing that leads to justification. If we can be honest with ourselves, it is a guide we may use to know whether we are on the pathway to heaven.

**Genesis 28:22**

When Jacob was fleeing from Esau and saw the vision of the ladder going to heaven, he received the promise from God that the land where he rested would be given to him and his descendants. Part of that promise, engendering hope in the heart of Jacob, was “ ‘I will not leave you until I have done what I have spoken to you’ ” (Gen. 28:15, NKJV). To commemorate the promise, Jacob set up a pillar and called it God’s house. It was a symbol of what would be much larger and more important. Even the house of God, no matter how majestic, would be a symbol of the all-powerful grandeur of the Almighty. This was worship, as was the promise Jacob made to be faithful in giving a tithe to God (verse 22).

**REACT**

`1. If I am returning a faithful tithe, am I doing it as worship or as a requirement? Do I tithe in order to receive the blessings or as a natural expression of appreciation and trust I have in God and the hope I have in Jesus coming for me?`

`2. If I am not returning a faithful tithe, do I feel that God will understand my circumstances and that my other works will make up for not trusting Him?`

_Gary R. Wagner, Union Springs, New York, USA_