---
title:  Trust and Be Blessed
date:   21/02/2018
---

**How-to:** Jer. 17:7

Proverbs 3:5, 6 says, “Trust in the Lord with all your heart, / And lean not on your own understanding; / In all your ways acknowledge Him, / And He shall direct your paths” (NKJV). Sometimes the way this verse is interpreted seems to take us out of the equation. This “acknowledgement of the Lord” could literally be translated as “know Him.” If you know someone, you are more likely to do what they ask of you; and because you know them, you know what they say is true. God has promised in Jeremiah 17:7, 8 to bless those who trust Him.

**God expects us to give as much as we would hope to be given.**

My wife constantly gets information from Fidelity Investments about the money that she had placed in her retirement fund. It is usually a huge booklet of legal jargon that can be difficult to understand. Part of understanding retirement is also setting up a trust. Fidelity defines a “trust” as “a fiduciary arrangement that allows a third party, or trustee, to hold assets on behalf of a beneficiary or beneficiaries.”

By giving to God, you are making Him the trustee who can then bless the beneficiaries, who include those in gospel ministry, your church family, and you. Below is a list of steps to place your “trust” in the Lord.

Give the same as you would like to be given (Luke 6:38). God expects us to give as much as we would hope to be given. I have found that in order to do this, it is necessary to remember the feelings I get when I am given an amazing gift and have had no way to repay it. God has already displayed this by giving us eternal life through His Son, who died for us. He set an example of giving as He would like to have given to Him.

Give, expecting nothing in return (Acts 20:35). This is somewhat cliché, but effective, counsel on giving to the Lord. Here He shows us that giving will actually bless us more than receiving.

Give, understanding that God promises to bless you (1 Pet. 3:8, 9). A lot of times we expect to give, hoping that we will get a monetary blessing in return. God has promised to bless us, but it may not be as we expect. It may be with love, which is far more powerful than money.

**REACT**

`1. Recall a time when you have given to the Lord and He has blessed you in ways you didn’t expect.`

`2. How much trust are you putting in God if He is not your trustee?`

_Keith Ingram, Horsham, Pennsylvania, USA_

