---
title:  Long-Term Investments
date:   22/02/2018
---

**Opinion:** Matt. 19:21; Luke 21:1–4; Eph. 2:8–10

Retirement seems like it’s such a long way off. The rare occasions when I do consider it are when I need to choose investments for my employee retirement fund. The money I put into that account grows as the companies I invest in do well. They either return to me a share of the profits or increase the value of my share in the company.

**There is no guarantee that heaven will be mine based on my tithing.**

My tithing seems to follow the same pattern, without a lot of thought. We quote Malachi to motivate tithing like it is an investment decision: return your tithe and watch your blessings compound over time. We hear from people who talk about the above-average returns from giving more than the recommended tenth of income. The implication is that the return on investment is in proportion to the value put in.

Jesus put the brakes on that kind of thinking—twice! He described the widow’s offering as greater than that of the wealthy because she put in all that she had. He also advised the rich young ruler to abandon his portfolio of tithes and offerings, sell all that he had, and give to the poor. Scripture describes our tithing obligation as a percentage of our increase rather than a price for value received. Wealth in this world is of no advantage in securing a place in the world to come. Those who want recognition for their giving are expected to follow Jesus’ example and give up all that they have and all that they are.

In Ephesians, Paul reminds me that grace is a gift and not the result of my works or tithing. There is no guarantee that heaven will be mine based on my tithing. I can’t even purchase God’s blessings; He simply challenges me to tithe and see whether He doesn’t pour them out as a gift.

**REACT**

`1. How do you balance the concept of tithing with respect to your time and talents?`

`2. Where is the fairness when tithing and blessing are not a barter exchange?`

_Steven J. Dovich, Andover, Massachusetts, USA_