---
title:  Tithing With a Joyful Heart
date:   23/02/2018
---

Exploration: Luke 21:1–4; Rom. 3:19–24; Eph. 2:8–10

**CONCLUDE**

A popular idea in the culture today is known as the “prosperity gospel.” This is the idea that if you give faithful tithes and offerings to God, you are guaranteed financial blessings in return. However, giving to God should not be done just because you are expecting God to give you something back. It should not be done because you expect that you will gain salvation through giving, either. Giving to God should be done out of love for Him, because you want to worship your Creator and celebrate the gift of eternal life He has given through Jesus.

**CONSIDER**

- Researching specifically where your tithes and offerings go and how they benefit not only your local church but God’s work in general. Understanding where your monies go and how they impact others may make it easier to give the next time the plate is passed.
- Drawing or painting a picture that illustrates the story of the widow in Luke 21:1–4. Be sure to include Jesus observing her gift as part of your picture. Share your artwork with your Sabbath School class or small group.
- Supporting a local ministry that works with those in need—either through financial gifts or with your time. This will not only give you the opportunity to deny yourself and step outside of your comfort zone but will also allow you to invest in someone whom you may not have encountered before.
- Writing a song—either with lyrics or just instrumental—that shares the joy one feels when giving back to the Lord. Perform your composition for your Sabbath School class or small group.
- Making a list of areas of the church to which you currently contribute. Next to each one, write a note explaining how you decided to give to that area with some thoughtful reflection on how you could give more or give differently in general. Make some plans to take action based on your thoughts.
- Praying for God to reveal areas in which you could adjust your giving to further His work. Also, if you find the thought of giving to be stressful or unappealing, pray that He will change your heart to find joy in giving.
- Writing a letter to Jesus, describing your feelings about His coming back. Discuss what steps you are taking (financial or otherwise) to hasten His return, ending with asking Him for suggestions of what you could do better.

**CONNECT**

Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chapter 67, “Woes on the Pharisees”; The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 32, “A Liberal Church.”

NAD Stewardship Department, Faith and Finance.

_Allison Sauceda, Centerville, Ohio, USA_