---
title:  Further Thought
date:  11/02/2022
---

Read Ellen G. White, “John the Beloved,” pp. 539–545, in The Acts of the Apostles; “Judas,” pp. 716–722, in The Desire of Ages.

“The warfare against self is the greatest battle that was ever fought. The yielding of self, surrendering all to the will of God, requires a struggle; but the soul must submit to God before it can be renewed in holiness.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, p. 43.

“John desired to become like Jesus, and under the transforming influence of the love of Christ he did become meek and lowly. Self was hid in Jesus. Above all his companions, John yielded himself to the power of that wondrous life. . . .

“It was John’s deep love for Christ which led him always to desire to be close by His side. The Saviour loved all the Twelve, but John’s was the most receptive spirit. He was younger than the others, and with more of the child’s confiding trust he opened his heart to Jesus. Thus he came more into sympathy with Christ, and through him the Saviour’s deepest spiritual teaching was communicated to the people. . . .

“The beauty of holiness which had transformed him shone with a Christlike radiance from his countenance. In adoration and love he beheld the Saviour until likeness to Christ and fellowship with Him became his one desire, and in his character was reflected the character of his Master.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 544, 545.

**Discussion Questions**:

`The lives of John, the beloved disciple, and Judas Iscariot provide an important contrast. When Jesus saw John and his brother, He called them Boanerges, sons of thunder. John had grave defects. Judas also had defects, but they were not more dramatic or serious than John’s. Why did John come to be transformed into the image of Jesus while Judas committed the sin against the Holy Spirit? What was the difference?`

`Jesus invites believers to take up their crosses and follow Him. What is the difference between taking the cross and submitting to abuse from others?`

`Why does God require a total surrender of our lives to Him? What is the relationship between free will and salvation?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Desire of Ages_, “Judas,” pp. 716–722;<br/>
_That I May Know Him_, “Life Not to Be Trifled With,” p. 93.<br/>