---
title:  A Place
date:   27/04/2026
---

`Jesus is our perfect example in everything. What does Mark 1:35 tell us about Jesus’ time with God?`

We can learn so much from this one verse. Long before the sun came up, Jesus went to a quiet place to be alone with His Father. Try to imagine this picture of Jesus in your mind: Jesus sits near the Sea of Galilee or on the side of a hill. Jesus prays and talks with His Father before everyone else around Him wakes up. Mark 1:35 tells us that prayer was very important to Jesus. For sure, Jesus’ prayer time gave Him the strength He needed for the day. Jesus needed to start every day with prayer. What about us? How much more do we need to start our day with prayer, too?

God tells us, “ ‘Come near to me’ ” (Psalm 27:8, EASY). He hopes that we will answer with these words: “So I will come and pray to you, Lord” (Psalm 27:8, EASY).

`What does 1 Chronicles 16:11 say about what we should ask God to do for us?`

Do you have a place you can go each morning to be with God? Maybe you can sit in a chair near a window. Or you can find a quiet spot outside. The kitchen table is fine, too. Pick a place where you can come daily to be with Jesus and learn from His Word, the Bible. We must be the same as Mary, who sat at Jesus’ feet to learn from Him. Sitting at Jesus’ feet is the best place to be (Luke 10:39–42). When we meet with Jesus every day, our meeting becomes a habit. The more you do something, the more you will continue to do it. Don’t get upset or lose hope when you miss a day every now and then. Sometimes emergencies happen. When they do, you may not always have the time to spend with God. But try not to let too much time pass without spending time with Him. Remember, if we want a living relationship with God, we must choose to spend time with Him every day. The wonderful news is that, today, you can start to spend time with Him again, if you choose to.

`During the past week, how much time did you spend in prayer and reading the Bible? What does your answer tell you about changes you may need to make?`