---
title:  Deep Bible Study
date:   28/04/2026
---

You don’t need to be an expert to study the Bible. But how can you get the most out of your Bible study?

**Pray:** Pray before and after your Bible study time. “We should never study the Bible without prayer.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 599, adapted.

**Read and Write:** How is reading the Bible different from studying the Bible? The answer is writing. Writing helps us slow down our thoughts and to know what we think. Writing helps us think deeply about God’s Word, the Bible. Writing also helps us to notice what the verses are really saying. Then we can more easily follow the Lord’s advice and wisdom. We also will remember something better when we write it down (Psalm 119:15, 16). What if you can’t write things down or don’t have time? Try reading the Bible and then sharing your thoughts on the topic as a prayer to God.

**Share:** Tell someone what you’ve learned. Sharing helps us to learn and encourages other people, too.

Start with a short book from the Bible (Jonah, Mark, Philippians, or 1 John). Slowly read through it. Follow the plan below for each verse, a few verses, or a chapter:

1. Pray that the Holy Spirit will lead you and soften your heart as you read.
2. Choose one Bible verse, a few verses, or a chapter.
3. Write down your verse or verses as you read. Or write down the parts that are important to you.
4. Read your verse or verses again. Underline the most important ideas.
5. Write down what the underlined ideas mean.
6. Pray about these ideas. How do they change your relationship with God?
7. Think of someone to share these ideas with today.

“God’s people must grow in His loving-favor. As people grow in faith, God will give them more understanding about the Bible. Then they will know more about its beauty and wisdom. God’s people had this experience all through the history of the church. This experience will continue until the end of human history.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels to Writers and Editors, pages 38, 39, adapted.

`How is the message in the quote above true in your life? Also read Psalm 119:105 to help answer the question.`