---
title:  A Double Blessing
date:   29/04/2026
---

We can study our Bible in many ways. We can study one verse, chapter, topic, word, or book of the Bible at a time. We can study with a Bible dictionary. We also can read the Bible with the writings of Ellen G. White to get a deeper understanding. We can go outside and think about our topic while we walk in nature. Or we can meet with a friend or a small group to study together.

We keep our friendships alive with new adventures and experiences. In the same way, we should keep our daily appointment with God exciting and fresh, too. How? We can use the different plans we talked about above. There is always more for us to learn!

You also can share with other people what you learn. When we explain what we learned, we discover how much we know and remember the information better. Our faith also grows strong. So does the faith of the other person. When we share with other people, that’s when we learn the most.

Soon you will see that what you study each day is not just God’s message for you. What you study is also God’s message for other people.

`Read Isaiah 50:4. What is this verse telling us about having a close relationship with God? How can this Bible truth change our relationships with other people?`

Our personal Bible study time makes us strong. When we are strong, we can encourage the people we may meet that day. Then our Bible study time becomes a double blessing.

Our spiritual lives are the same as a race. Ask the Lord to help you keep running your ‘race’ all the way to the finish line. Keep your eyes on the prize: everlasting life with Jesus (Philippians 3:14). Don’t feel hopeless if you missed a few study times. Make any changes in life that you need to make to keep your prayer and Bible study time and your relationship with God strong. We may know God today (John 17:3). That’s everlasting life. When we spend time each day with God and the Bible, our lives will change.

`Read this week’s memory verse again. What does this verse mean? What are you studying right now in the Bible? Think of someone you can share your knowledge with. Ask God to help you do it.`