---
title:  The Oneness of God
date:   09/02/2026
---

### inGest

Muhammad’s teachings as articulated in the Quran emphasize tawhid, or the oneness of God. His belief in monotheism was absolute and uncompromising, rejecting any form of polytheism, idolatry, and any notion that God has partners, equals, or associates. Monotheism became the cornerstone of the Islamic faith. This belief stood in stark contrast to the prevailing polytheistic cultures of Muhammad’s time, making it easier to understand the challenges Muslims have with the idea of Jesus being more than a prophet. Regarding the Trinity, the Quran claims that attributing divinity to Jesus (or any being besides Allah) contradicts the principle of tawhid. For instance, one passage from the Quran  calls the People of the Book (a term used in the Quran to refer primarily to Jews and Christians) to adhere to strict monotheism and not to say “three” in reference to God, emphasizing that there is only one God who is indivisible.

Muhammad’s stance on the Trinity was rooted in his mission to restore the original monotheistic worship of God as he believed it was practiced by Abraham and all other prophets. The God of Scripture clearly rejects any classification of Himself as polytheistic. Why, then, do many religions and cultures believe in many gods? An inclination toward polytheism can be attributed to a misinterpretation of the cosmic conflict, the battle between good and evil forces that unfolds daily in human lives. When people see opposites like light and darkness, good and evil, love and hatred, they may believe these forces represent different gods in conflict, which explains how polytheism might emerge to make sense of the struggles and contradictions in life and nature. Polytheism also involves inner conflict, competition, and a disregard for creatures, characteristics seen in most pagan beliefs.

In the context of these cultures, the God of Scripture presents Himself as one (Isa. 45:5). A clear example is found in the passage Jews refer to as the Shema: “Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God, the LORD is one!” (Deut. 6:4). God is one. There’s a deeper layer in the Hebrew text: “Shama (Listen), O Yisra’el (Israel), Yahweh (the one God) Elohim (plural form of God), Yahweh (the one God) is Echad (one)!” The use of “Elohim,” a plural noun, with “Yahweh,” the singular name for God, and “Echad,” meaning a unified one, hints at God’s relational nature. Describing God in both singular and plural terms expands our view of Him, showing that while He is one Being, He is also plural. Through this plurality, He demonstrates the importance of unity and connection, modeling perfect community in His very nature.

### Questions to explore

`Why is polytheism abhorrent to God? See Deut. 6:14, 15 and 5:7–10.`

`How does the Christian understanding of God challenge polytheism?`