---
title:  inQuire
date:   14/02/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful study discussion based on this week’s main passage and the supporting verses.

**God’s nature:**

1. What essential truths about God must be cherished and taught? _Deut. 6:4–9_
2. How does Deuteronomy 6:4 describe God in both singular and plural terms? _Consider the Hebrew text as explained in this week’s inGest_
3. What are some other ways God has referred to Himself in the plural? _Gen. 1:26; Isa. 6:8_
4. What are the names of the three Persons in the Godhead? _Matt. 28:19, 20; 2 Cor. 13:14_
5. What challenges might a Muslim face when considering the Christian doctrine of the Trinity?

`Personal reflection: How does understanding the relational nature of the Trinity enrich your personal relationship with God?`

**Jesus’ divinity:**

1. What kind of relationship did Jesus claim to have with Abraham? What title of God did He use to describe Himself? _John 8:56–58_
2. How did the Old Testament prophets describe the preexistence of the Promised One? _Isa. 9:6; Mic. 5:2_
3. Does the New Testament call Jesus God? _John 1:1–3; John 20:27, 28; Heb. 1:8, 9_
4. In contrast to other world religions, why does the Bible teach that God had to provide a sacrifice to atone for sin? _Rom. 6:23; Heb. 9:22_

`Personal reflection: Despite their belief that Jesus was merely a prophet, what beliefs or practices do you have in common with Muslims? How can we build friendships with Muslims? How can we share the good news with them without offending?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Christianity is a monotheistic religion, teaching that there is only one God.
- The Bible reveals relational, loving dynamics within the very nature of God.
- The Bible clearly teaches Jesus’ divinity, sometimes calling Him God.