---
title:  Jesus Makes A New Way To God For Us
date:  12/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Hebrews 7:11–19; Hebrews 8:10–12; Deuteronomy 6:4–6; Hebrews 10:5–10; Jeremiah 31:33.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “But Christ [Jesus] has a more perfect work. He is the One Who goes between God and man in this new and better way. The New Way of Worship promises better things” (Hebrews 8:6, NLV).

JESUS LIVED A PERCECT LIFE. Then Jesus died in our place on the cross and paid the penalty for our sins. By His death and perfect life, Jesus made a new way possible for us to come to God. This new way is named the New Agreement.

Paul explains this Bible truth in Hebrews 10:5–10. These verses teach us that Jesus offered to God the life of perfect obedience that the New Agreement asks from us. Paul talks about Psalm 40, too. Psalm 40 shows that David wanted to be obedient to God in every way: “So I said, ‘Here I am, ready to do what was written about me in the book. My God, I am happy to do whatever you want. I never stop thinking about your teachings’ ” (Psalm 40:7, 8, ERV). This psalm also shows us the plan that God had for His people under the New Agreement. God wanted His people to feel that obeying Him was a joyful experience. He wanted to “write” His law in their hearts (Deuteronomy 6:4–6).

Paul believes that Psalm 40 shows us Jesus. When Jesus came to this earth, He lived a life of joyful obedience. He is our Example. He saves us by His death and by His life of perfect obedience.