---
title:  The Need For A New Agreement 
date:  13/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 7:11–19. Why did we need a New Agreement?`

The problem with the Old Agreement is that it cannot make us perfect (Hebrews 7:11). The animal offerings that were part of the Old Agreement cannot make us clean from guilt or sin. These animal offerings also cannot make a way for us to go to God (Hebrews 10:1–4; Hebrews 9:13, 14; Hebrews 10:19–23).

So, we needed a New Agreement. Our need for a New Agreement does not show that God was not fair to Israel when He gave them the Old Agreement. The work of the Levites and animal offerings under the Old Agreement was important. This work taught the Israelites not to worship false gods. The animal offerings also showed the Israelites the future work of Jesus for His people. Paul wants us to see that the law that Moses gave Israel about the animal offerings “can show only a little about the good things that are coming. It cannot show the good things themselves [what those things really are]” (Hebrews 10:1, WE).

For sure, the animal offerings showed Jesus and His future work. The offerings helped the people put their hope and faith in Jesus. Jesus is “the Lamb of God. He takes away the sins of the world [the people on the earth]!” (John 1:29, ERV; compare with Isaiah 53). So, the law about the animal offerings cannot save us. Only Jesus can save us. But what about the Ten Commandments? Paul says, “The Law was used to lead us to Christ. It was our teacher, and so we were made right with God by putting our trust in Christ” (Galatians 3:24, NLV). Paul also says, “Christ [Jesus] has fulfilled [done] everything the law was meant to do. So now everyone who believes can be right [accepted] with God” (Romans 10:4, NIrV). This verse also can be written as “Christ has made an end to the law as a way of [our] getting right with God” (Romans 10:4, WE).

What do these verses show us? As good and perfect as the Ten Commandments are, they cannot save us (Romans 3:20–28; Romans 7:12–14). The Ten Commandments show us how we should live and love other people. But the Ten Commandments cannot make us clean and holy. For that, we need Jesus.

`Why can we not be saved by our obedience to the law and good behavior? Why is Jesus the only way we can saved?`