---
title:  Brand New And Made New Again 
date:  14/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Compare Hebrews 8:10–12 with Deuteronomy 6:4–6; Deuteronomy 30:11–14; and Jeremiah 31:31–34.`

The promise of a New Agreement comes from Jeremiah. Jeremiah shows us that the New Agreement is really about the agreement God first made with Israel after Moses led the people out of Egypt (Jeremiah 31:31–34). So, the promise of a New Agreement is really about how God makes the first agreement new again with His people. The Hebrew word for “new” is “hadashah.” “Hadashah” can be written as “make new” and “brand [special] new.”

Nothing was wrong with the Old Agreement itself. The people were the problem. The people broke the Old Agreement (Hebrews 8:8, 9). The people did not obey the law of God. What if the Israelites believed that the animal offerings showed them the coming Savior? What if they put their faith in Him? Then the Israelites never would have broken the agreement. True, there were many Israelites in Bible times who kept the Old Agreement. They loved the law of God and followed it (Psalm 37:31; Psalm 40:8; Psalm 119:11; Isaiah 51:7).

So, the New Agreement is really the Old Agreement that God makes with His people again. At the same time, there are some things about the New Agreement that really are new. Jeremiah tells us that God promised to do “something new” (Jeremiah 31:22, ERV). So, the New Agreement will not be the exact same agreement that God made with Israel in the past (Jeremiah 31:32). The people had not obeyed God under the Old Agreement. So, God did not do all the things He promised in the agreement that He gave Moses. Now, Jesus makes all those promises possible (Hebrews 7:22). God can keep all the promises of His New Agreement. God does not change His law to keep His promises. God sends us Jesus, His Son, who kept the law. Jesus is proof that God will keep the promises in the New Agreement (Hebrews 7:22); Hebrews 6:18–20).

`Read about how much we can trust God in 2 Timothy 2:13. In these verses to Timothy, Paul shows us how much we can trust God to always keep His promises. Think about how God kept His promises to Israel in the past. How does this thought help us keep the promises we make each other?`