---
title:  Someone Better 
date:  15/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Jesus goes to God for us to make a better agreement. Why is the work that Jesus does for us much better than the work done by the Old Testament priests, or religious leaders? For the answer, read Hebrews 8:1–6.`

Read Hebrews 8:6, NLV. Do you see the words written as “the One Who goes between God and man” (Heb. 8:6, NLV)? These words come from the Greek word “mesitēs.” “Mesitēs” comes from the Greek word “mesos,” which means “middle.” So, “mesitēs” shows us someone who walks or stands in the middle. Someone who was a “mesitēs” did one or more jobs. The jobs included: (1) problem solver; (2) peacemaker; (3) a witness in a court of law; or (4) someone who promises to be responsible for an agreement.

Jesus is the One who goes between God and man. Which of the four jobs in the list above does Jesus do as our “mesitēs”? Hebrews shows us that Jesus is more than a problem solver, a peacemaker, or a witness to a business contract. Jesus is the One who promises to be responsible for the New Agreement (Hebrews 7:22). Jesus makes sure that the promises of the New Agreement will be kept.

The death of Jesus makes the New Agreement possible. His death meets the needs of the first agreement with Israel. Israel broke the first agreement (Hebrews 9:15–22). Jesus agreed to be responsible for everything Israel owed to God when they broke the agreement. We can trust that God will keep His agreement promises to us because Jesus went to heaven and was given glory (Hebrews 6:19, 20). Jesus shows us that the promises of God are true. How? God woke Jesus from the dead and told Him to sit at His right hand in heaven. This act shows us that the Father will wake us from the dead and bring us to Him.

Jesus is a better religious leader than Moses. Why? Jesus works in the temple in heaven. He gave Himself as a perfect offering for our sins (Hebrews 8:1–5; Hebrews 10:5–10). The face of Moses shows us the glory of God (Exodus 34:29–35). But Jesus is the glory of God (Hebrews 1:3; John 1:14). Moses talked with God face to face (Exodus 33:11). But Jesus is God (Hebrews 4:12, 13; John 1:1–3, 14).

`The New Agreement shows us that we must obey God. Why does obedience continue to be so important to us today?`