---
title:  The New Agreement Has Better Promises 
date:  16/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Paul says that the New Agreement has “better promises” (Hebrews 8:6, ERV). What does Paul mean by better promises? You may think the answer is that the New Agreement has better rewards. But that idea is not correct. God offered the same rewards to Israel that He offers to us (read Hebrews 11:10, 13–16). God offered Israel the same home in heaven and the same gift of everlasting life that He offers us. Hebrews 8:6 helps us understand what Paul really means when he says “better promises.” Better promises show us different types of promises.

The agreement between God and Israel was an exchange between God and man. God promised to give Israel many blessings in exchange for their obedience. God took the lead in the agreement. He freed Israel from Egypt and promised to lead them into the Promised Land.

`Compare the promises in Exodus 24:1–8 and Hebrews 10:5–10. What is the same and different about these two promises?`

Moses poured blood on the altar and sprinkled blood on the people. The blood showed that God and His people accepted the agreement. The people promised to obey everything God said. We must promise the same thing when we enter the New Agreement with God.

The New Agreement asks for perfect obedience from us. Jesus meets this need. God gave His own Son to come to this earth and live a perfect life. Now God can keep all the promises of the New Agreement because of the life that Jesus lived. We can have this life as ours by our faith in Jesus. Because Jesus was obedient, we can trust in the promises of the New Agreement. Jesus makes the promises of God sure for us (Hebrews 7:22). Because Jesus was obedient, God gives Jesus the blessings of the New Agreement to give to us. Everyone who belongs to Jesus will enjoy these promises with Him. Also, God gives us His Holy Spirit to help us obey His law.

`Jesus met the needs of the New Agreement. So, the promises of God to us are sure. How does this Bible truth help you understand 2 Corinthians 1:20–22? What wonderful hope do we find for ourselves in these verses?`