---
title:  The New Agreement Solves Our “heart” Problem 
date:  17/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Compare the New Agreement promises in Jeremiah 31:33 with the ones in Ezekiel 36:26, 27. How are the promises the same?`

God wrote the first agreement on stone. Moses put these pieces of stone in the ark, or holy box, of the agreement (Exodus 31:18; Deuteronomy 10:1–4). Stone can be broken. Paper can be cut up and burned (Jeremiah 36:23).

But God now writes His law in the hearts of His people. The heart is a word picture for the mind. The mind is the part of our body that knows and remembers (Jeremiah 3:15; Deuteronomy 29:4). We make important decisions with our minds. Our minds make free choice possible.

The promise that God made to write His law in our hearts shows that God wants everyone to know and understand His law. God also wants to change the hearts of His people for the better. The problem with Israel was that their sins were a deep part of them. Jeremiah explains, “The sin of Judah is written down with pen of iron and with a sharp diamond. It is written on their hearts and on the horns [that parts that stick up from the corners] of their altars” (Jeremiah 17:1, NLV). Israel had a stubborn heart (Jeremiah 13:10; Jeremiah 23:17). So, it was not possible for Judah to do the right thing (Jeremiah 13:23).

So, how was their “heart” problem solved? The answer was not a change in the law. Why? Because the problem Israel had was not the law but their hearts. God wanted Israel to be obedient because they were thankful to God for every thing He did for them. That is why God told Israel how much He loved and cared for them before He gave them the Ten Commandments (Exodus 20:1, 2). God wanted Israel to obey His laws to show that they understood how much God wanted the best for them. God showed the love in His heart for His people when He freed them from Egypt.

God expects the same obedience and thankfulness from us today. The New Agreement starts with the love Jesus showed for us on the cross. Real obedience comes from the heart that loves God (Matthew 22:34–40). This love shows that the Holy Spirit lives in our hearts. God pours His love on us by His Spirit (Romans 5:5; Galatians 5:22).

`How does our obedience show our love for God?`