---
title:  Further Thought
date:  18/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

What will happen when God makes our lives new and “plants” His love in our hearts? Will we then show that we obey the law of God in our lives? Of course! When the love of God is “planted” in our hearts, then the New Agreement promise becomes real. The promise is: ‘I will put my laws in their hearts. I will write my laws in their minds.’ Hebrews 10:16 [ERV]. This promise also becomes real when we are made new and begin to look the same as our God. If God writes His law in our hearts, will the law change our lives? Of course! Obedience shows that we are the followers of God. Our obedience shows that we are loyal to God and serve Him fully. That is why the Bible says, ‘We show that we love God when we obey his laws.’ 1 John 5:3 [WE]. ‘Anyone who says, “I know Him,” but does not obey His teaching is a liar. There is no truth in him.’ 1 John 2:4 [NLV]. We get mercy from God by faith and faith only. Faith does not free us from being obedient. Faith makes it possible for us to be obedient. . . .

“The closer you come to Jesus, the worse you will look in your own eyes. Your spiritual vision will be very clear. You will see all your mistakes and faults compared to the perfect life of Jesus. This clear view of yourself shows that the lies of Satan no longer control you. The life-giving power of the Holy Spirit helps you see yourself as you really are.

“You cannot really love Jesus until you see that your own heart is filled with sin. When Jesus changes your life by His mercy and forgiveness, you will admire Jesus and His holy life. But if we do not see our own faults, then we can be sure that we do not see the beauty of Jesus. Everything about Jesus is excellent.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pages 60, 64, 65, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about the paragraphs from Ellen G. White above. Ellen G. White says that the closer we come to Jesus, the more we will see our own sins. Why must we not let the ugly things we see in ourselves cause us to lose all hope and give up our faith?`

`Think more about the idea that God writes His law in our hearts. What promise for our spiritual lives do we see in this Bible truth? How this Bible truth help us avoid obeying God for the wrong reasons? (Read Hebrew 9:14.)`