---
title:  The New Testament Hope
date:  12/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Corinthians 15:12–19; John 14:1–3; John 6:26–51; 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “This [teaching] is what God told us: God has given us eternal [everlasting] life, and this life is in his Son [Jesus]. Whoever has the Son has life. But whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life” (1 John 5:11, 12, ERV).

The Christian hope was not a new hope for Jesus and His followers. In Old Testament times, God’s special messengers and Israel’s spiritual leaders believed in the resurrection. The resurrection is the time when God will wake up His people from the dead at the Second Coming. Jesus said that Abraham saw this special day in a vision and was filled with joy (John 8:56). Jude says that Enoch told people who were alive before the Flood about the Second Coming (Jude 1:14, 15). The book of Hebrews talks about the heroes of faith who wait for their reward from heaven. But these men and women won’t get their reward until we get our reward (Hebrews 11:39, 40). We would have trouble understanding these verses in Hebrews if these Bible heroes of faith already were with the Lord in heaven.

Only people who are saved in Jesus have everlasting life (1 John 5:11, 12). This teaching shows that the spirit does not live forever after the body dies. The New Testament hope is found in Jesus. The only hope we have that we will live forever someday comes from Jesus.