---
title:  Hope Beyond This Life 
date:  13/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We have the Bible promise of everlasting life in Jesus. This idea is very important. His death and His resurrection offer us so much hope. As we already saw, Jesus’ resurrection is the time when Jesus woke up from the dead three days after dying on the cross for our sins.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:12–19. What is Paul saying here in these verses? How is Jesus’ resurrection connected to our own resurrection? Our own resurrection, as we learned, is the time when Jesus will wake up His people from the dead at His Second Coming.`

Paul wants us to understand this important idea: we will wake up from the dead because Jesus woke up from the dead. Jesus’ resurrection and our resurrection are connected. We cannot separate the two resurrections. If Jesus didn’t wake up from the dead, then what? Paul tells us the answer in strong words: “our preaching is worth nothing. And your faith is worth nothing” (1 Corinthians 15:14, ICB). So, in other words, when we die, we stay dead. We never wake up. We are dead forever. That’s why Paul also says, “If we are not raised [brought back to life; resurrected] from death, ‘Let us eat and drink, because tomorrow we die’ ” (1 Corinthians 15:32, ERV). What can we do if we have no hope?

If this life is all we have, and if we only live for about 70 years, then we really have no hope at all. No wonder Ellen G. White says, “Heaven is worth more than anything else we have or ever will hope to get. If we lose heaven, we lose everything.”—Sons and Daughters of God, page 349, adapted.

`Think about hope and faith. These are very precious gifts, right? Why must we do everything we can, with God’s help, to protect these gifts?`