---
title:  I Will Come Again 
date:  14/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Almost 2,000 years have passed since Jesus promised to come again. How can we help people understand that this promise is more important than ever for Christians today? Read John 14:1–3 for the answer.`

Four times in the book of Revelation Jesus says, “ ‘I am coming soon’ ” (Revelation 3:11; Revelation 22:7, 12, 20, ERV). Jesus’ followers expected Jesus to come back in their day. Many Christians since that time have shared this same hope. But year after year has passed, and Jesus has not come back. So, many Christians start to ask, “How much longer will we need to preach that ‘Jesus is coming soon’? Is it wrong for us to expect Jesus to come back soon?” (Read 2 Peter 3:4.)

Many Christians complain about the long “delay” (compare this idea with Matthew 25:5). But how do we explain this long “delay”? When should Jesus have come back? Was that 50 years ago? Or 150 years ago? Or 500 years ago? Let us read 2 Peter 3:9: “He [God] wants everyone to change their ways and stop sinning” (2 Peter 3:9, ERV). This verse shows us that God is waiting for us. God is so patient with us.

Two thousand years ago, Jesus woke up from the dead and went to heaven. Jesus will come back again. Why must we remember that? Because we live a short time (Psalm 90:10). After that, we sleep in the grave (Ecclesiastes 9:5, 10). Then God will wake us up from the dead. We only get one life to decide if we want to obey God (Hebrews 9:27). After we die, when we wake up again, we will see Jesus.

Every day we get one day closer to the Second Coming of Jesus in the clouds of heaven. We don’t know when Jesus will come. But we know that Jesus will come back.

A pastor preached a sermon about the Second Coming. He said that he didn’t care when Jesus came back. All the pastor cared about is that Jesus DOES come back. Do you agree with the pastor’s thinking? If yes, how can this reason help you feel hope?