---
title:  I Will Wake Him Up 
date:  15/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jesus fed 5,000 men with a small amount of bread and fish (John 6:1–14). After this miracle, the crowd wanted to make Jesus their king (John 6:15). Jesus sailed with His followers to the other side of the Sea of Galilee to escape the crowd. But the next day, the crowd followed Jesus there. Then Jesus preached His powerful sermon about the Bread of Life. Jesus talked about the gift of everlasting life, too (John 6:22–59).

`How does Jesus show that the gift of everlasting life is connected to the time when He wakes up His people from the dead? Read John 6:26–51 for the answer.`

In His sermon, Jesus talked about three basic ideas connected with everlasting life. First, Jesus said “ ‘I am the bread that came down from heaven’ ” (John 6:58, ERV; read also John 6:33). The words written as “I am” are “egō eimi” in the Greek language. With these words, Jesus announces that He is the same Person who is named the Mighty “I AM” in the Old Testament (Exodus 3:14). Second, Jesus explained that everlasting life comes from Him: “ ‘He who comes to Me’ ” and “ ‘he who puts his trust in Me’ ” (John 6:35, NLV) will get this blessing. Finally, Jesus connected the gift of everlasting life with the final resurrection of God’s people. The final resurrection is the time when God wakes up His people from the dead at the Second Coming. Jesus promises, “ ‘I will raise [wake] them up on the last day’ ” (John 6:40, 44, 54, ERV).

Jesus also gives us this surprising promise: “ ‘I tell you the truth. The person who believes in me will live for ever’ ” (John 6:47, WE). This promise shows that we already have the gift of everlasting life! Does this mean that the believer will never die? Of course not! Why? Because the words “raise [wake] them up” (John 6:40) show us people who come back to life after they died.

Without Jesus, we don’t have everlasting life. After we accept Jesus and get the promise, we continue living as humans who will sleep when we die. At the Second Coming, Jesus will resurrect or wake us up from the dead. Then He will give us the gift of everlasting life. The gift is promised to us now. We have this gift, but not because we have spirits that never die. Jesus gives us this gift because of our faith in His mercy.