---
title:  A Blast From God’s Trumpet
date:  16/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Thessalonian Christians believed that God would give everlasting life only to Christians who were alive at the Second Coming. “The Thessalonian Christians carefully protected their friends’ lives. The Thessalonians were afraid that if their friends died, then God wouldn’t give their friends everlasting life at the Second Coming. But their loved ones started to die. The Thessalonians were sad as they looked for the last time at the faces of their loved ones. The Thessalonians hardly dared to hope to meet their dead loved ones again in a future life.”—Ellen G. White G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 258, adapted.

`How did Paul correct this false idea? Read 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18 for the answer.`

Many people have trouble understanding what Paul is saying in 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18. They don’t understand the words, “bring them together with him when he comes” (1 Thessalonians 4:14, ERV). Some people think the verses say that spirits from dead people are already in heaven. The problem is that these people believe that the spirit lives forever. So, they think that Jesus, at His Second Coming, will bring with Him the spirits of dead people who are already in heaven with God. Then these spirits can join with their bodies again when Jesus wakes them up from the dead. But this idea is false.

Read this quote from a non-Adventist Bible thinker who talks about 1 Thessalonians 4:14: “The Thessalonian Christians cry for their dead church members. But they have hope. Why? Because God ‘will bring’ the dead. What do these words mean? They mean that God will wake up these dead Christians and cause them to be alive at Jesus’ Second Coming. That is what it means when it says that the dead will be ‘with him.’ So, the dead Christians will get the same gift that God gives to the living when He comes back. The dead will not miss out.”

—Jeffrey A. D. Weima, 1–2 Thessalonians, Baker Exegetical Commentary on the New Testament (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2014), page 319, adapted.

If the spirits of the dead are already with Jesus in heaven, why does Paul need to talk with the Thessalonians about the Second Coming? Paul could say that God’s people who are dead are already with the Lord in heaven, but he didn’t! Paul says that God will wake up the dead at the Second Coming.