---
title:  The Most Wonderful Meeting
date:  17/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:51–55. What “secret” (1 Corinthians 15:51, ERV) does Paul explain in these verses?`

What is this “secret” (1 Corinthians 15:51, ERV) that Paul talks about? Some popular preachers think the “secret” is the same as the “secret rapture” of the whole church. Some Christians think the “secret rapture” is the time when Jesus will sneak down to earth and take loyal Christians with Him to heaven. Everyone else stays here on earth and wonders what happened to them. This “secret rapture” happens seven years before Jesus’ Second Coming. During the secret rapture, someone who is in a taxi may find himself or herself all of a sudden in a car with no driver because the taxi driver was taken to heaven. All that is left behind is the driver’s clothes! A set of 16 books named the Left Behind books were written about this topic. Four movies were made from the books. These movies taught the false belief about the secret rapture. Sad to say, millions of people who saw these movies learned about this false idea.

Of course, the Bible doesn’t teach the secret rapture. The “secret” that Paul is talking about is that the living will be changed. Then they will join the dead ones that God has brought back to life at the Second Coming. This experience is the only real “rapture” there is. There is no “secret rapture” because every living person on earth will see the Second Coming happen (Revelation 1:7). The dead will wake up and the living will be changed when God blows His trumpet at the Second Coming (1 Corinthians 15:51, 52).

Jesus’ Second Coming will bring about the most wonderful meeting ever! God’s people who are alive will be changed “in a very short time, no longer than it takes for the eye to close and open” (1 Corinthians 15:52, NLV). At God’s command, God’s people are given bodies that never die. Their bodies are made everlasting. Together, the living people of God are lifted up into the air to meet their Lord. Angels “ ‘will gather [bring] his chosen people from every part of the earth’ ” (Matthew 24:31, ERV).

“The holy angels will carry little children to their mothers’ arms. Death separated many friends from each other. Now these friends meet each other again. They will never be separated. Everyone sings songs of joy as they travel together to the city of God.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 645, adapted.