---
title:  Further Thought
date:  18/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Thessalonian Letters,” pages 255–268; “Called to Reach a Higher Standard,” pages 319–321, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“The Romans knew that Christians believed God would wake up their bodies from the dead. So, the Romans did everything possible to make fun of this hope. A report from Gaul [modern France] in a.d. 177 talks about some Christians who were killed for their faith. After the Romans killed the Christians, the Romans left their bodies to rot on the ground for six days. Next, the Romans burned the bodies and threw the ashes in the Rhône River. Then the Romans said, ‘Now let’s see if those Christians will wake up from the dead.’ ”—Stephen Cave, Immortality: The Quest to Live Forever and How It Drives Civilization (New York: Crown Publishers, 2012), pages 104, 105, adapted.

The Romans failed to show that the Bible promise isn’t  true. The Power who woke up Jesus from the dead can do the same for us, too. So, it doesn’t matter what happens to our body. God made all the stars and planets in outer space. If He can do that, He can wake up the dead and take them to heaven with the living, for sure.

“Paul wrote: ‘When he [Jesus] returns [comes back], many [people] who believe in him will have died already. We believe that God will bring them back with Jesus’ [1 Thessalonians 4:14, NIrV]. Many Christians believe that this verse means that Jesus will come from heaven with spirits who were their dead family members and friends. But Paul did not say that. Paul said that God will wake up the sleeping saints from their graves in the same way that Jesus woke up from the dead. Then God will take His people with Him to heaven. Precious promise! Beautiful hope! This promise not only is for the church of Thessalonica. This hope also is for all Christians, wherever they may be.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 259, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What hope do we have against death in our lives?`

`How can we help someone who believes in the “secret rapture”? (Read Thursday’s study.)`

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:12–19. How do these verses show us that the dead are asleep and not in heaven right now with Jesus?`