---
title:  Wild Child
date:   15/04/2017
---

### Wild Child

1 Pet. 2:11–3:7


From Tarzan to Mowgli to George of the Jungle, many popular books and movies reflect society’s fascination with the concept of someone being raised by animals. Cases such as these are, unfortunately, not limited to the imaginings of Hollywood. A cursory search of feral children shows dozens of documented cases of children who were lost, taken, or abandoned and either were adopted by animals or had to survive in complete social isolation.

**It is absolutely paramount that we learn to be discerning about with whom we associate.**

In 1970, Los Angeles authorities were alerted to a potential case of abuse. They found a 13-year-old girl who had been kept bound in her room since she was a toddler. Genie (a pseudonym created to protect her identity) had had almost no human interaction and was severely malnourished. A series of transfers of care left her ultimately living out her days in a special care facility for mentally underdeveloped adults, never fully able to join society.

Unlike their big-screen counterparts, feral children don’t just magically learn English and table manners overnight. They struggle to learn the most elementary abilities, such as walking upright, eating cooked foods, and, most crippling, communicating. Language is inherent to our ability to reason, learn, and develop our characters.

For good or bad, our personal and spiritual growth is affected tremendously by our social interactions. Our parents are the first to begin influencing our characters. Their DNA determines our physical traits, mental health, and arguably even many of our talents and interests. Infancy and early childhood are some of the most formative years in determining who we will become as adults. How our parents and caregivers love, discipline, nurture, or neglect us have a lifetime of consequences.

As we grow, the rest of society begins to have a say in who we become.

Our national culture, our education, our government and media, our jobs, the friends we make—each one slowly sends us down a path toward self-identity.

That is why it is absolutely paramount that we learn to be discerning about with whom we associate and how we interact with them. Every exchange is molding both our characters and those of the people around us. Every workweek, every class lecture, and every text message is shaping who we become and who our peers become. To use that influence for Christ, for advancing the gospel and teaching others about His character, is our duty as Christians. As you read this week’s lesson, consider how your social interactions affect your faith and the faith of those around you.

_Melissa Meneses, Killeen, Texas, U.S.A._