---
title:  “I Pledge Allegiance”
date:   16/04/2017
---

### “I Pledge Allegiance”

1 Pet. 2:13–17

With elections happening in many countries of the world, we are likely aware that some voters are pleased while others despair. Even those who share the same values may differ in the way they think those principles should be carried out in the political arena. So what happens when the candidate we support does not end up in office? How should we, as Christians, respond?

It may be easy to speak out against an elected official who lives in open defiance to the Christian principles that we hold so dear. However, in clinging to our values, it is possible that we may actually go against the Bible itself. A look at 1 Peter may teach us how to live in harmony with all people in authority—the ones we agree with and the ones we do not.

**We can submit to earthly authorities because we know that their reign is temporary.**

First Peter was a letter of encouragement to the churches in the Roman province of Asia Minor during a time of intense hardship and persecution. It was likely written to a combined audience of converted Jews and converted Gentiles during Nero’s infamous dark reign, when Christians were arrested, tortured, and put to death as a spectacle before all of Rome. Nero, the fifth emperor of Rome, was most likely the person who came to these Christians’ minds when they heard this word from Peter: “Submit . . . for the Lord’s sake to every human authority: whether to the emperor, as the supreme authority, or to governors, who are sent by him” (1 Pet. 2:13, 14, NIV). When Peter instructed them to submit to the emperor, he was not unaware of the persecutions they faced. He later died at the hands of the same cruel ruler. How could Peter possibly advocate submission to such an authority?

Peter walked with Christ; he watched His sufferings and saw Him emerge victorious over sin and death. As a result, Peter was able to take on a more eternal perspective. That eternal perspective allows us to persevere in sufferings and hardships and to faithfully honor those in authority even when we disagree with them. When we recognize, as Peter did, that God is the ultimate Authority, to earthly authorities because we know that their reign is temporary, while Christ’s reign is eternal. Furthermore, when we show honor, respect, love, and grace to those with whom we disagree, we show the world what it really means to be disciples of Christ.

**REACT**

`How can we live in the tension of staying true to our beliefs while still giving respect to those in authority whose values may differ greatly from our own?`

_Heidi Joy Trujillo, Apison, Tennessee, U.S.A._