---
title:  A State of Loyalty
date:   17/04/2017
---

### A State of Loyalty

1 Pet. 2:11–3:7

**The Christian and the State (1 Pet. 2:13–17)**

What was Peter’s attitude toward the civil authorities? Jesus Christ had been condemned by due process of civil law. Peter himself had been imprisoned by the same King Herod who had just killed James the brother of John. The state saw Peter as a revolutionary, and the call of the gospel was indeed a radical alternative to the civil state of things. But this same Peter wrote that we should “submit . . . to every ordinance of man for the Lord’s sake” (1 Pet. 2:13). This is not an open call to participate in the errors of political ambition, but a call to honor God before the civil authorities by showing that Christians are people of “good works” (verse 12). In the wrong hands, this advice and its parallel by Paul has justified past complicity with civil evils. But Peter puts it all into perspective at the beginning of the point when he writes, “I beg you as sojourners and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts . . . , having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles” (verses 11, 12, NKJV).

**Slaving in the Kitchen (1 Pet. 2:18–23; 3:1–7)**

One of the burdens of history is that later developments reach back to further blight the past. In Peter’s day, life was hard and social structures absolute. For survival, landless people often indentured themselves as servants or slaves and served under contract. Roman practice was also to sell prisoners of war as slaves—a barbaric practice that was nevertheless under the realm of legal transaction. The innumerable allusions in the Gospel accounts to liberation and freedom show sensitivity to the natural aspirations of the oppressed. But Jesus was insistent that His kingdom was not of this world. The advice Peter gives here is consistent with Paul and Jesus Himself. In whatever situation we find ourselves, we should discharge our duties with honor and responsibility as to the Lord.

Peter’s words on marriage reflect the contractual nature of this institution during his day. But he elevates the wife’s role to one of holy duty and the man’s to gentle care—not quite the norm back then. And the bottom line for this marital advice is that they be “heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers may not be hindered” (1 Pet. 3:7, NKJV). In other words, he connects marriage behavior with true spirituality and the hope of salvation.

**Love and the Social Order (Rom. 13:1–10; 1 Pet. 2:13–17)**

It is very easy to show that the society of New Testament times was often harsh, inflexible, and ordered by arbitrary rule—not least because it was the rule of the occupier. But Peter, Paul, and Jesus Himself urged compliance with law and a life lived within the basic social confines. While the idea of the kingdom of God was inherently at odds with the secular reality, the Bible writers urged a life of personal rectitude in the expectation of a future radical remodeling of government and society. In the meantime, the call is to live in this world as icons of faith to impress truth upon kings, spouses, overseers, and neighbors.

**REACT**

`1. Would it have been politically or biblically correct for Peter to have recommended social rebellion?`

`2. Two kingdoms, God’s and man’s—which takes precedence?`

_Lincoln Steed, Hagerstown, Maryland, U.S.A._