---
title:  Hitting Rock Bottom After Falling in Love
date:   19/04/2017
---

### Hitting Rock Bottom After Falling in Love

1 Pet. 3:1–3

Just as the letters of Peter were written for guidance in a time of trouble, God’s Word has practical guidance for times of trouble in marriage. The thing about God’s love is that it is unconditional. He doesn’t fall in or out of love with us. His love is constant and always available.

Unfortunately, human love can be conditional, based on emotions or happiness. But God gives guidance on what love is, and His Word never mentions a wavering feeling or emotion as the foundation of matrimony. In 1 Peter 3:1–3, the apostle specifically talks about how to win over a spouse who is an unbeliever, and it can easily be applied to your marriage.

**Unfortunately, human love can be conditional, based on emotions or happiness.**

If our marriage is struggling, God beckons that we win over our spouse with the “purity and reverence” of our lives (verse 2, NIV), not so much words but with actions. God gives instruction on how to do this when, in His Word, He reminds us that love is not self-seeking. It is patient, kind, and perseveres (1 Corinthians 13). This means that during the troubled times, we should love our wives or husbands as Christ loved the church and pursue our spouse with unconditional love, just like Christ pursued us when we were not feeling in love with Him (Eph. 5:25).

Warren Barfield wrote a profound song when his marriage was struggling. He wrote that love is not a place to come and go as we please, but it is instead a house that we enter and commit never to leave. This is a beautiful reminder that our marriage is a covenant that cannot be cast aside whenever we aren’t feeling it.

Likewise our “marriage” to God is based on a commitment and a conscious decision to love with our actions no matter what. It is against our nature to pursue and love a spouse who is not reciprocating that same affection, but God calls us to win over our spouse, just as Christ tries to win over us all the time with His blessings and mercies, reminding us of His unconditional love.

**REACT**

`1. What are some ways God reminds us of His unconditional love?`

`2. Is it hard to win over and show unconditional love to an unloving spouse? Why?`

`3. What are some ways that we can remind our spouse of unconditional love?`

_James Simpson, Killeen, Texas, U.S.A._