---
title:  Mountains Out of Molehills?
date:   20/04/2017
---

### Mountains Out of Molehills?

1 Pet. 4:8

Whether it’s quickly glancing at a Facebook posting, browsing a new book to read, or filtering through the fluff of that friend who takes a few minutes to get to the point, we tend to seek after the main point. In the Bible, what is the main idea? “ Above all things, have fervent love for one another, for love will cover a multitude of sins” (1 Pet. 4:8, NKJV).

One verse before, Peter writes, “The end of all things is near. Therefore be alert and of sober mind so that you may pray” (verse 7, NIV). It stands out to me that Peter would start with the end of all things and continue with “therefore,” in light of the nearness of the end, to keep the main thing the main thing. He commands the believers to have fervent love for one another.

**I am thankful that the Bible is saturated with the main idea.**

Peter’s main idea parallels what Jesus said years earlier in Matthew 22:37–40: “ ‘ “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.” This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like it: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” On these two commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets’ " (NKJV).

There is much debate over what our church should be focusing on. If your experience in the Adventist Church has been anything like mine, you have heard people complain regarding “not enough prophecy” or “all they preach about is love; it is too watered down!” People have different opinions regarding the main idea in the teachings of the Bible; and in different times of their lives, they value one teaching over the others. I am thankful that the Bible is saturated with the main idea. To me, Peter is almost screaming, “If you miss everything else I say, remember this: love each other—deeply.”

**REACT**

`1. What do you think your local church would look like if the main idea of all the members was to love one another deeply?`

`2. Why do we so often make mountains out of molehills, not just about issues in the church but in our personal lives as well?`

`3. What does it look like to love someone well?`

_Gabriel Abner Trujillo, Collegedale, Tennessee, U.S.A._