---
title:  Love God, Love People
date:   21/04/2017
---

### Love God, Love People

1 Pet. 4:8

**CONCLUDE**

Our interactions with people help define who we are and how we grow. This is a two-way street; we are also responsible for our influence on those around us. As a Christian, my social relationships provide opportunities for me to show my allegiance to Jesus and my commitment to His values. Modeling my relationships after Christ should mean that I stand out in a positive way. Christianity is first and foremost about loving others as we have been loved: uncritically, unconditionally, despite our faults and even our antagonism.

**CONSIDER**

- Reading the short story “Where Love Is, God Is,” by Leo Tolstoy.
- Meditating on ways you can choose loving action this week.
- Logging and charting your interactions with people over a certain period of time (an afternoon, a day, or a week). Rate each instance on a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 being neutral, and 5 being extremely positive. Note any particular growth areas you see.
- Creating a piece of art that shows what Jesus means to you. Share your artwork with your friends.
- Choosing three Bible characters who treated people in a Christlike manner. Write a paragraph about each, including how you can incorporate those traits in your interactions.
- Researching several hymns that paraphrase 1 Corinthians 13, or writing your own hymn.
- Asking at least ten different people (include as many non-Christians as possible) what social values or characteristics they most associate with Christians. How do their answers relate to this week’s lesson?
- Making a mobile to illustrate Jesus’ words in Matthew 22:40: “ ‘On these . . . hang all the Law and the Prophets’ ” (NKJV).

**CONNECT**

1. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, chap. 27, “ ‘Who Is My Neighbor?’ ”
2. Francis Chan, Crazy Love: Overwhelmed by a Relentless God (David Cook, 2008).
3. John Stonestreet and Warren Cole Smith, Restoring All Things: God’s Audacious Plan to Change the World Through Everyday People (Baker Books, 2015).
4. Morris Venden, How Jesus Treated People (Pacific Press®, 1990).

_Sharon Wright Stromberg, Frederick, Maryland, U.S.A._