---
title:  The Results of Stewardship
date:   24/03/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
2 Tim. 3:1-9; Ezek. 14:14; Phil. 4:4-13; Prov. 3:5; 1 Pet. 2:11, 12; Matt. 7:23; 25:21.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles, that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may, by your good works which they observe, glorify God in the day of visitation” (1 Peter 2:12, NKJV).

As stewards, we should live as witnesses of the God we serve, which means that we should exert a powerful influence on those around us, an influence for good.

Our story, then, is not to be isolated from the world around us. Instead, we are privileged to reflect a better way of living to those who don’t know the things that we have been given. Stewardship is the act of thriving while managing God’s call to live godly lives. God gives us the skill to live differently than any other lifestyle on earth (2 Cor. 6:17), and it is something that others should notice and even ask about. Hence we are told: “But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts: and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear” (1 Pet. 3:15).

This final lesson will look at the personal benefits, spiritual outcomes, successful results, our influence, and the key to contentment in the steward’s life, knowing that it is all about “Christ in you, the hope of glory” (Col. 1:27, NKJV).

*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, March 31.*
