---
title:  Stewardship and Godliness
date:   25/03/2018
---

Godliness is a vast topic. Godly people live a holy lifestyle (Titus 1:1), becoming like Christ with an attitude of devotion and with actions that are pleasing to Him (Ps. 4:3, Titus 2:12). Godliness is the evidence of true religion and receives the promise of eternal life. No philosophy, wealth, fame, power, or favored birth offers such a promise.

`Read 2 Timothy 3:1-9. What is Paul warning about here that’s directly related to the life of a faithful steward?`

The book of Job provides a description of Job’s character and actions. It illustrates how a godly life is revealed, even through suffering. It also shows how much Satan hates that lifestyle. Even God acknowledges that there were no others like Job in his quality of faith and lifestyle (Job 2:3).

“There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job; and that man was blameless and upright, and one who feared God and shunned evil” (Job 1:1, NKJV). Thus, we see a man whose faith wasn’t just an expression of words or religious rituals, though that was part of his life (Job 1:5). His fear of God was manifested in an entire life of godliness, even amid horrific trials. Being godly doesn’t mean we are perfect, only that we reflect perfection in our own sphere.

`Read Ezekiel 14:14. What does this text say that testifies to the character of these men? What do they have in common that should be seen in all of us?`

Stewardship is, really, an expression of a godly life. Faithful stewards don’t just have a form of godliness. They are godly, and this godliness is revealed in how they live, in how they handle the things that their God has entrusted them with. Their faith is expressed not only in what they do but also in what they don’t do.
