---
title:  Our Influence
date:   28/03/2018
---

“For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord” (Eph. 5:8, NKJV). Paul describes the transformation of the heart as being what is publicly seen: As we “walk in the light” (1 John 1:7, NKJV; Isa. 30:21), our daily witness of managed stewardship will be an influential light in a dark world.

Jesus said, “I am the light of the world” (John 8:12, NKJV). We reflect the light of God through a stable character in our everyday public behavior.

`How is our stewardship on display in ways that bring glory to God? What influence do our actions have on others? Matt. 5:16, Titus 2:7, 1 Pet. 2:11, 12.`

Stewardship is about the management of God’s possessions, but it goes beyond this responsibility. Our stewardship is on display in front of our families, communities, the world, and the universe (1 Cor. 4:9). Stewardship lived out in our occupations as well demonstrates the effect that the principles of the kingdom have on our lives. And thus, we can influence others. We reveal Christ by kindness and morality, which carry the approval of the Creator.

Our work ethic also must agree with our stewardship values. Our occupation is one stage in which the stewardship of a righteous person is seen. “He shall bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your justice as the noonday” (Ps. 37:6, NKJV). A steward’s influence even at work or at his or her vocation is not put “in a secret place or under a basket” (Luke 11:33, NKJV), but is seen like a city on a hill (Matt. 5:14). As you purposefully live this way at home and at work, you will influence the minds and hearts of those around you.

“Everything in nature has its appointed work and murmurs not at its position. In spiritual things every man and woman has his or her own peculiar sphere and vocation. The interest God requires will be proportionate to the amount of entrusted capital according to the measure of the gift of Christ. . . . Now is your time and privilege to . . . show a stability of character that will make you of real moral worth. Christ has a right to your service. Yield to Him heartily.” - Ellen G. White, This Day With God, p. 243.

`What kind of influence does your work ethic reveal to those with whom you work or to those who see you at home? What kind of message do you send to them about your faith?`
