---
title:  Further Thought
date:   30/03/2018
---

“Christ came to this world to reveal the love of God. His followers are to continue the work which He began. Let us strive to help and strengthen one another. Seeking the good of others is the way in which true happiness can be found. Man does not work against his own interest by loving God and his fellow men. The more unselfish his spirit, the happier he is, because he is fulfilling God’s purpose for him.” - Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, pp. 24, 25.

“Wherever there is life in a church, there is increase and growth. There is also a constant interchange, taking and giving out, receiving and returning to the Lord His own. To every true believer God imparts light and blessing, and this the believer imparts to others in the work that he does for the Lord. As he gives of that which he receives, his capacity for receiving is increased. Room is made for fresh supplies of grace and truth. Clearer light, increased knowledge, are his. On this giving and receiving depend the life and growth of the church. He who receives, but never gives, soon ceases to receive. If the truth does not flow from him to others, he loses his capacity to receive. We must impart the goods of heaven, if we would receive fresh blessing.” - Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, p. 36.

**Discussion Questions:**

`1. How does trusting in the Lord lead to contentment? What does it take to trust God with all your heart on an intellectual level? 2 Cor. 10:5. Why is it so easy to say “that all things work together for good” (Rom. 8:28, NKJV) but so hard to believe it? That is, why do we say that we trust God, and really do trust Him on an intellectual level, and yet be so fearful of the future?`

`2. In class, ask this question and then compare answers: “In 25 words or less, what is your definition of stewardship?” Then ask the question: “In 25 words or less, why is stewardship an important part of the Christian’s life?”`

`3. Read again Matthew 7:21-23. What is going on here? Why do these people say the things that they do? What do their words reveal about themselves? How can we make sure that - even as we seek to be good stewards, even as we seek to live a life of faith and obedience, even as we seek to do good works in God’s name - we do not fall into the same kind of self-deception?`

`4. We tend to think of Christian influence only on an individual level. But what about at the level of your local church? What kind of influence does your church as a whole have in the community?`
