---
title:  From Pride to a Heart With No Pride
date:   25/01/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week's lesson
Daniel 4:1–33; Pro-verbs 14:31; 2 Kings 20:2–5; Daniel 4:34–37.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “‘God has done amazing [surprising] miracles! He has done powerful miracles! His kingdom continues forever; his rule will continue for all generations [a generation is a group of people born and living during the same time]’” (Daniel 4:3, ERV).

PRIDE IS THE FIRST SIN. Where does the Bible say that pride started? In the heart of Lucifer. Lucifer is an angel. He lived in the courts of heaven. But then his heart was filled with pride. So, God tells Lucifer what will happen to him: “ ‘Your beauty made you proud. Your glory [praise and honor] ruined [destroyed] your wisdom. So I [will throw] you down to the ground, and now other kings stare at you’ ” (Ezekiel 28:17, ERV).

Pride causes Lucifer to sin. Then God throws Lucifer out of heaven. Now Lucifer, or Satan, causes pride in men. He turns them against God. In this way, Lucifer destroys humans. We are all sinners. We depend on God for life itself. All our gifts come from God. So do all the good things we do with God’s gifts. That is why we should not let our hearts become full of pride. We should not brag about anything we do.

It takes a long time for Nebuchadnezzar to understand this truth. You will remember that he sees the 4th man in the hot oven. That 4th man is Jesus. But does that change Nebuchadnezzar? No! So, God removes his kingdom. God makes the king live with animals. Then the king finally changes.

Pride causes Lucifer to sin. So, God throws Lucifer out of heaven.
