---
title: “‘LOOK AT BABYLON! I BUILT THIS GREAT [MIGHTY] CITY’”
date: 1/19/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about King Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel 4:1–33. What happens to the king? Why does it happen?`

God gives Nebuchadnezzar a second dream. This time, the king remembers his dream. But the Babylonian wise men cannot explain the dream. So, the king asks Daniel to give him an explanation. In the dream, the king sees a big tree. It reaches up to heaven. Someone in heaven orders an angel to chop down the tree. Only the stump and roots are left in the earth. Then the person in the dream says something that must make Nebuchadnezzar afraid. He says: “‘Let him not think like [the same as] a man any longer. Let him have the mind of an animal for seven years’” (Daniel 4:16, ICB). Daniel understands the dream. He wishes that the dream was about the king’s enemies. But Daniel is loyal to God. He tells the king the truth. Daniel says that the dream is about the king himself.

The Bible uses trees as word pictures to show kings, countries, and kingdoms (Ezekiel 17; Ezekiel 31; Hosea 14; Zechariah 11:1, 2; Luke 23:31). So, the big tree is a good word picture for Nebuchadnezzar. It shows us his heart filled with pride. God gives Nebuchadnezzar his kingdom and power. But the king continues to fail to give God glory. He does not believe that everything he owns comes from God.

`What does the king say in Daniel 4:30? How does it show that the king does not understand God’s warning?`

`What makes pride so dangerous? Pride causes us to stop remembering how much we depend on God for everything. What happens when we do not remember how much we owe God? Then we get into trouble. Pride causes us spiritual problems.`

Someone in heaven orders an angel to chop down the tree.
