---
title:  Daniel Warns The King
date:   27/1/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel’s warning to the king in Daniel 4:27. What does Daniel warn the king about? What does Daniel tell the king to do, and why? (Read also Proverbs 14:31.)`

Daniel explains the dream to the king. Then Daniel gives the king some advice. Daniel tells the king what to do so that bad things will not happen. “ ‘So, King, please accept my advice. Stop sinning and do what is right. Stop doing bad things and be kind to poor people. Then you might [may] continue to be successful [to have success]’ ” (Daniel 4:27, ERV).

Nebuchadnezzar builds many things in Babylon. He builds gardens. He builds canals. Canals are man-made rivers. Nebuchadnezzar builds many canals in the city. Then boats can travel into Babylon. Nebuchadnezzar also builds hundreds of temples. No wonder Babylon was one of the earth’s wonders during Bible times! Many times, we do not think about how these beautiful things get built. Often slaves do all, or most, of the work. Kings use their riches for their pleasure. They do not use their money to help the poor. Nebuchadnezzar’s pride causes him to feel that he does not owe God any thanks. The king’s pride also makes his heart cold. He does not care about people in need. God shows special care for the poor. So, we should not be surprised that Daniel tells the king to remember them too.

Daniel’s message to the king is nothing new. The Old Testament prophets, or special messengers, often warn God’s people about being kind to the poor. The prophets tell God’s people to be fair. The prophets warn God’s people not to hurt the poor or use them to get rich. One reason that God punishes Nebuchadnezzar is because the king does not care about the poor. When we do not care about the poor, we hurt God. So, we must take care of the poor and needy. Then we show people that God owns everything. We show that we own nothing. We are only managers of God’s gifts to us.

We must help other people with the gifts that God gives us. Then we will honor God and show that He is our Lord. God owns everything. So, we should remember this Bible truth when we decide what we will do with His gifts. Then we should use His gifts to help people in need.

When we do not care about the poor, we hurt God.
