---
title: The Most High God Controls Everything 
date: 1/28/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Daniel tells the king to stop sinning and to ask God’s forgiveness. But Nebuchadnezzar’s heart is filled with pride. His pride causes God to punish him (Daniel 4:28–33). How does it happen? The king walks in his palace. He praises himself for all his wonderful works. All the sudden, the king starts to act crazy. His people force him to leave the royal palace. What happens to the king’s mind? He may have a special sickness named lycanthropy. This sickness causes a person to believe he or she is a wolf. Lycanthropy makes a person behave the same as an animal.

`Read 2 Kings 20:2–5; Jonah 3:10; and Jeremiah 18:7, 8. What do these verses tell us about the king’s chance to escape his punishment?`

Sadly, Nebuchadnezzar must learn his lesson the hard way. As king, Nebuchadnezzar refuses to think about everything he owes God. So, God sends Nebuchadnezzar to live with the wild animals in the field. God gives the king a chance to learn that he owes God everything. The most important lesson God wants to teach the king is that “ ‘heaven rules [controls] your kingdom’ ” (Daniel 4:26, ICB). He wants us to learn this lesson too: “ ‘Holy angels announced this punishment so that all the people on earth may know that God Most High rules [has control] over human kingdoms. God gives those kingdoms to whoever he wants, and he chooses humble [not proud] people to rule them’” (Daniel 4:17, ERV).

King Nebuchadnezzar’s punishment is a lesson for everyone on earth. So, we must pay careful attention to this lesson. We should remember that “ ‘God Most High rules over human kingdoms’ ” (Daniel 4:17, ERV).

`God Most High has control over everything. Why is this lesson so important for us to learn? How should this Bible truth help us to be careful of the words we say and the things we do to people under our control?`

God sends Nebuchadnezzar to live with the wild animals in the field.
