---
title: Looking To Heaven
date: 1/22/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read more about King Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel 4:34–37. How, and why, do things change for the king?`

God allows Nebuchadnezzar to get a strange sickness. But after seven years, God makes the king’s mind new again. What changes everything? Things change when the king lifts up his eyes to heaven (Daniel 4:34).

“For seven years, Nebuchadnezzar’s behavior fills his people with surprise. For seven years, the king is shamed in front of everyone on earth. Then God gives the king back his mind. The king looks up to heaven. The king’s heart is no longer filled with pride. He understands now that God punished him. So, the king makes a public announcement. He says that he is guilty of sin. He says that God showed him much mercy in giving him back his mind.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 520, adapted.

Yes, big changes can happen in our lives when we look up to heaven. God gives the king back his mind. Then the king shows everyone proof that he learned his lesson.

This story is not really about Nebuchadnezzar. It is about God’s mercy. The king missed three chances to accept the God of Israel as the Lord of his life. The 1st chance came when he saw that Daniel and his friends were smarter than all the wise men in Babylon (Daniel 1). The king’s 2nd chance came when Daniel explained his dream (Daniel 2). The king’s 3rd chance came when God saved Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego from the hot oven (Daniel 3). If that experience does not change the king’s mind, “nothing else can!” But the king is stubborn. Even so, God gives the king a 4th chance. Then God finally wins the king’s heart (Daniel 4). God gives the king back his mind and his kingdom. Nebuchadnezzar’s story shows us that God gives us many chances. Why does God do that for us? God wants to save us. He wants us to be close to Him too. As Paul tells us hundreds of years later: “God wants everyone to be saved and to fully understand the truth” (1 Timothy 2:4, ERV). King Nebuchadnezzar’s story is a powerful example of this Bible truth.

How has God helped you to see how much you need Him?

“The king makes a public announcement. . . . He says that God showed him much mercy in giving him back his mind.”
