---
title:  A Heart Filled With Thanks
date:   30/1/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Nebuchadnezzar feels sorry for his sins. Then he gives his heart to God. He announces: “ ‘People on earth are not really important’ ” (Daniel 4:35, ERV). What does he mean?

How do we know that Nebuchadnezzar really accepts the true God? The biggest proof is that he writes the letter that is part of Daniel 4. The king sends this letter all over his kingdom. In his letter, the king talks about his pride. He talks about losing his mind and behaving the same as an animal. Then he says he is thankful to God for saving him from his sickness. A king in Bible times hardly ever writes bad things about himself. Almost all royal records from Bible times praise and honor kings. So, Nebuchadnezzar’s letter is a big surprise. It shows us that the king truly gives his heart to God. The king’s letter is a witness. It tells everyone on the earth about his experience with God. The letter talks about God’s power and His control over everything. The king cannot keep silent about what he experienced and learned about God. The letter is a prayer to God. The king praises God too (Daniel 4:34–37).

The king has a new heart. His life has changed. So have his beliefs about life. He sees that human power is limited. In a moving prayer, Nebuchadnezzar gives thanks to Daniel’s God. Nebuchadnezzar says that God controls everything. That is why the king says that “ ‘People on earth are not really important’ ” (Daniel 4:35, ERV). Nebuchadnezzar’s prayer shows us that humans do not have anything to brag about at all. The last time we see King Nebuchadnezzar in the book of Daniel is in chapter 4. This last story shows us a king with no pride in his heart. His heart is filled with thanks to God and praise. The king warns us against having hearts filled with pride.

Of course, God continues to change lives today. Sinners may be very proud. But God has the mercy and power to turn proud sinners into children of the God of heaven.

`Read Philippians 2:1–11. What do these verses teach us about why we should not feel pride in our hearts?`

The king sends the letter all over his kingdom.
