---
title: Additional Thought
date: 1/31/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:**

“In the past, Nebuchadnezzar’s heart was filled with pride. Now he becomes a child of God. In the past, Nebuchadnezzar used his power to control people and boss them around. But now he is a wise and loving king. The king shows that he cares for his people. He wants them to be happy. The king works hard to encourage people to obey God. In the past, Nebuchadnezzar talked against the God of heaven. So, God punished Nebuchadnezzar. Now the king accepts God’s power. The king knows that God is King of kings and Lord of lords. God teaches Nebuchadnezzar the lesson that all leaders need to learn: If you want to be a success, then you must do good things. Nebuchadnezzar tells everyone in Babylon that Jehovah is the living God....

“God’s plan is for the most powerful kingdom on earth to praise Him. And it does. The king makes a public announcement about God’s mercy. The king says that God is good. He has all power in heaven and on earth. This act is the last thing written about the king in the Bible.”—Prophets and Kings, page 521, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:**

`1. “Pride causes every bad behavior. Pride is the worst sin against God. Do you think that my language is too strong? If yes, I want you to think about something.... The more pride you have in your heart, the more you hate pride in other people. Do you want to know how much pride you have? The easiest way is to ask yourself: ‘How much do I hate it when other people are not kind to me? How much do I hate it when people refuse to pay attention to me? How much do I hate it when people try to boss me around? Or act as if they are better than I am? Or when they show off?’ What I want to say is that each person’s pride is in a fight with everyone else’s pride. It is because I want to be the most important person at the party that I get mad when someone else gets more attention than I do.”—C. S. Lewis, Mere Christianity (New York: Touchstone, 1996), page 110, adapted. What is Lewis saying here that can help you see how much pride is in your heart?`

`2.	Daniel chapters 3 and 4 teach us about the power of God. He controls everything in heaven and on earth. Why is this idea so important to understand? How does the Sabbath help us understand this truth?`

“Each person’s pride is in a fight with everyone else’s pride.”
