---
title:  Living in the Land
date:  06/12/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Joshua 22:1–8; Joshua 22:9–20; Joshua 22:13–15; Joshua 22:21–29; Joshua 22:30–34.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “A gentle answer will calm [stop] a person’s anger. But an unkind [mean and sharp] answer will cause more anger” (Proverbs 15:1, ICB).

When we live in a community, sometimes we may argue or disagree with each other. A church is a community where this problem can happen. In a church, people with different pasts and ideas come together to work for the Lord. Because we are all different, we may disagree. Some disagreements can cause misunderstandings between members.

This week, we will study Joshua 22. In this chapter, the people have a misunderstanding. In the beginning of the book of Joshua, Joshua commanded some of the family groups of Israel on the east side of the Jordan River to come help the family groups on the west side (Joshua 1:12–18). The family groups from the east side came over to help the other family groups win their land. So, now these family groups from the east side are free to go back home across the river. But before they do, these family groups build an altar on the east side. This altar makes the Israelites who live on the west side of the Jordan River very upset.

Why must we be careful not to think the worst about the behavior of other people? How can we have peace and agreement in the church? How can our remembering the special work God gave us to do as a church help us to stay peaceful and not get upset when bad things happen?