---
title:  Keeping Promises
date:  07/12/2025
---

`Read Joshua 22:1–8. What do these verses tell us about the loyalty of the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-family group of Manasseh?`

Joshua says that the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-family group of Manasseh kept their promises, just as Moses commanded. These family groups left their wives, children, and homes on the east side of the Jordan River. They fought alongside the rest of the Israelites to help them win their land. The time they spent fighting was about six to seven years (compare with Joshua 11:18; Joshua 14:10; Deuteronomy 2:14). They decided to fight because they were loyal to the promise they made. They didn’t let their fear about dying or getting hurt in war get in the way of keeping their promise.

Joshua 22:1–8 shows us that peace and agreement are important for God’s people. These verses talk about why God’s people must be united as one people. Will the Israelite family groups continue to stay united in the future? Will they continue to worship the Lord as their only God? Or will they let the land that they live in separate them?

Joshua explains that real loyalty comes from serving God, and not people.

The New Testament teaches this same idea about serving God. Paul tells Christians to work as if they were working for God and not just people (read Ephesians 6:7; Colossians 3:23; 1 Thessalonians 2:4). What more impor­tant job do we have than working for God? He made everything!

In everyday life, we often have problems that can make us feel hopeless. We may want to give up the fight. Sure, that’s the easy thing to do. But we always can pray for God to help us. God can give us His power to do what He asks us to do. If we keep trusting in Jesus, He will give us the strength to continue our work for Him.

`Joshua 22:5, 6 says that Joshua asked the family groups who were going back home to remember to stay loyal to the Lord. Then Joshua blessed them. What would happen if we prayed more for each other? How would our prayers change our relationships in the church for the better?`