---
title:  Blame
date:  08/12/2025
---

`Read the story about the three family groups of Israel who go back to their homes on the east side of the Jordan River (Joshua 22:9–20). What do the family groups who live on the west side of the Jordan River accuse the east side family groups of doing? Were the east side family groups correct? Explain your answer.`

In Joshua 22:1, the family groups of Israel who live on the east side of the Jordan River are called their usual names: Reubenites and Gadites and the half-family group of Manasseh. But in verses 9–20, different names are used for them. They are named the sons of Reuben, the sons of Gad, and the half-family group of Manasseh (Joshua 22:13).

In the story, the people of Israel are the 9 1/2 family groups who live on the west side of the Jordan River. This name doesn’t include the three family groups that live on the east side: the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-family group of Manasseh. This separation shows us that a misunderstanding divided the west-side family groups from the east-side family groups. The question from the story is: Can the family groups on the east side of the Jordan River be seen as real Israelites anymore?

What happened that caused this problem? The Israelites on the east side of the Jordan River built an altar at the river. The Bible doesn’t say why the Israelites built the altar or what they used it for. Remember what happened in Joshua 3 and 4, when all the Israelites came to the Jordan River to cross over into Canaan. At that time, Joshua commanded the Israelites to carry 12 stones from the river. Then Joshua set up the stones to help the Israelites remember the Lord.

But this new altar worries the Israelites on the west side of the Jordan River. They don’t think that the altar is for remembering God. So, they ask what the stones mean. They want to know why the altar was built. (Compare with Joshua 4:6, 22.) Is the altar for burnt offerings to false gods? Or is the altar just to help Israel remember the Lord? Are the family groups from the east side already starting to sin against God?

The family groups who lived on the east side of the Jordan River didn’t ask for permission to build the altar. They didn’t talk with Joshua or Eleazar or other leaders first. Now they have a misunderstanding that could lead to an awful fight between all the family groups of Israel.