---
title:  The Sins From The Past
date:  09/12/2025
---

`Why do the Israelites on the west side of the River Jordan choose Phinehas as their leader? Read Joshua 22:13–15 again, along with Numbers 25.`

The Israelites who live on the west side of the Jordan River want answers. They want to know why the family groups who live on the east side of the Jordan River built an altar at the east side of the river. The Israelites from the west side of the Jordan River are named the sons of Israel two times. They send a group of leaders to talk to the family groups from the east side of the Jordan River. The leader of the group is Phinehas. Phinehas is the son of Eleazar, who is the high priest. The high priest is the top religious leader for Israel. Phinehas will become high priest after Eleazar dies (Joshua 24:33).

Phinehas is already famous in Israel. He put a stop to the evil that Israel did at Baal Peor (Numbers 25): “Phinehas was the son of Eleazar and the grandson of Aaron the priest. Phinehas saw this man bring the woman into camp. So he left the meeting and got his spear. He followed the Israelite into the tent. Then he used the spear to kill the Israelite man and the Midianite woman in her tent. He pushed the spear through both of their bodies. At that time there was a great [terrible] sickness among the Israelites. But when Phinehas killed these two people, the sickness stopped” (Numbers 25:7, 8, ERV).

The rest of the men in the group were leaders of the 9 1/2 family groups of Israel. These 9 1/2 family groups lived on the west side of the Jordan River.

The leaders from the west side meet with the family groups from the east side. The west-side leaders start with these words: “ ‘All the people of the Lord say, “What sin is this that you have done against the God of Israel?” ’ ” (Joshua 22:16, NLV). The word “sin” in this verse is the same Hebrew word that the Bible uses to talk about Achan’s sin (Joshua 7:1). We see this same word many times in the writings of Moses (read Leviticus 5:15; Leviticus 6:2; Numbers 5:6, 12). The stories about Achan and Baal Peor are warnings about what happens when Israel steals from God and fights against Him. The west-side Israelites are afraid that the east-side family groups built the altar to worship false gods. If so, God will punish everyone in all the 12 family groups of Israel.