---
title:  A Gentle Answer
date:  10/12/2025
---

`What can we learn from the answer of the family groups that lived on the east side of the Jordan River? Read Joshua 22:21–29, along with Proverbs 15:1, for the answer.`

The answer of the family groups from the east side of the Jordan River is very powerful. The family groups from the east side stay quiet and listen to the words said against them. The family groups from the east side are very patient. They wait until the west-side leaders finish talking before they answer. The peaceful spirit of the east-side family groups is surprising. Their gentle spirit shows us the meaning of this verse: “A gentle answer will calm [stop] a person’s anger. But an unkind [mean and sharp] answer will cause more anger” (Proverbs 15:1, ICB).

Then the family groups from the east side answer. They start with many names for Israel’s God in their answer: El, Elohim, Yahweh (Joshua 22:22). These names show the loyalty and faith of the east-side family groups in the God of Israel. Their faith and their gentle words help to stop a civil war in Israel. Why did the east-side family groups build the altar? They were afraid of being separated from the other Israelites on the west side of the Jordan River. So, the east-side family groups built the altar to help them feel included in Israel. They also wanted to show their loyalty to God. What makes the people of Israel united? Is it the land? No, their loyalty to God and obedience to His commandments make them one people.

When the Israelites from the west side of the Jordan hear this answer, they are filled with joy. They are happy that their fears were wrong. They have no reason to feel upset or afraid. The meeting solves the problems and stops civil war from happening. All the family groups continue to be one people in the Lord.

`How do you feel when someone accuses you of something you didn’t do? What do you say or do when someone believes the worst about you? To give you hope, please read Psalm 37:3–6, 34, 37.`