---
title:  Solving Problems
date:  11/12/2025
---

`Read the story in Joshua 22:30–34. What does this story teach us about how to solve problems? Also, what does this story teach us about keeping peace in the church? (Compare with Psalm 133; John 17:20–23; 1 Peter 3:8, 9.)`

Joshua 22 contains important rules for communication. We can use these rules to help us in our everyday relationships in the family, church, and community.

**Rule #1.** When things go wrong or look wrong, the best thing to do is communicate. Don’t hold back your feelings until you are ready to “blow up” with anger at someone. As God’s people, we should try to solve our problems. We should not pretend that there is no problem or avoid talking about it. Of course, the family groups from the east side of the Jordan River should have communicated with the other Israelites about their plan to build an altar. Then they could have avoided the misunderstanding.

**Rule #2.** Don’t be too quick to judge. The West Jordan Israelites were quick to believe the false stories. They believed the worst about the East Jordan family groups.

**Rule #3.** Talk about the problems before you act.

**Rule #4.** Be willing to give up something for peace and agreement. The west-side Israelites were willing to give up part of their land to help the family groups from the east side of the River Jordan.

**Rule #5.** When someone blames you for a problem, give a gentle or soft answer. A gentle or kind answer keeps that person from getting angry. If you accuse the person who is blaming you, what happens? You both will never have peace. Try to understand the other person before you talk.

**Rule #6.** Rejoice and bless God when He causes peace between you and the other person. The west-side Israelites were filled with joy when they learned the real reason that the east-side family groups built the altar. The west-side Israelites weren’t filled with pride. They confessed that they were wrong to judge their brothers.

What if the east-side family groups really sinned? Then the Israelites would have punished them as the law of Moses commanded. We can’t have peace and agreement if we don’t follow God’s rules. But punishment should always be our last plan, not our first. First, we should try to be at peace and solve our problems. For sure, our churches would be different if we always remember to follow these rules.