---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  12/12/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Division of Canaan,” pages 517–520, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“While we must punish sin, we must not be mean or nasty. We must not judge people because we hear terrible stories about them. . . .

“The Reubenites and their companions showed that they were wise. Their example is worthy of our attention. We should copy their behavior. The Reubenites and their companions wanted to serve God and His religion. The other Israelites believed the worst about them and ­scolded them with sharp words. But the Reubenites and their companions didn’t get upset. They were kind and patient. They listened to the things their brothers said first. Then the Reubenites and their companions answered. They fully explained their reasons for their actions. Their explanation showed that they were innocent.

“When someone accuses you of something you didn’t do, you can be patient and kind. God knows everything. He knows everything we misunderstand. We can safely leave our problem in His hands. God will show that we are innocent. But we must put our trust in Him. God searched Achan’s heart and judged his guilt. If we are filled with Jesus’ spirit, His love will fill our hearts. His love will make us kind and patient.

“God wants His people to love each other and to agree. Before Jesus died on the cross, He prayed for His followers [John 17:20]. Jesus prayed this prayer for us, too. Jesus wanted His followers to be one with each other as He is one with the Father. When we agree, then other people on earth will know that God sent Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 519, 520, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Paul commands us to “honor others more than yourselves” (Philippians 2:3, ERV). How can following this advice help us to think the best about our brothers and sisters?`

`Why do we often get angry about things? How do our past mistakes cause us to get upset about the things that happen now? How can we stop getting upset? Why is it important to hear what other people have to say? How can we learn to listen more in our church? (Compare with James 1:19.)`