---
title:  Got Anything for That?
date:   07/06/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Jeremiah 17

**Got Anything for That?**

Some years ago, I heard a humorous story about Darren, a troubled man who went to visit his therapist. As he sat on the couch opposite the therapist, he explained the problem: “I’m not sleeping very well. I just had a check-up and the doctor said there’s nothing wrong with me, but I lie down and I can’t fall asleep. I’m a complete wreck the next day because I’m exhausted. I just can’t do it anymore. I need some sleep.”

The therapist listened intently, obviously concerned. After a moment, she asked, “If it’s not a health issue, is something on your mind that may be keeping you up?”

“You could put it that way, but to be more honest, it’s my conscience. I’ve done some things I’m not proud of, and my conscience is troubling me.” Darren watched the therapist nervously, trying to gauge her reaction.

“That’s understandable,” she replied, putting Darren at ease. “Sometimes, if we do things that violate our principles or values, our conscience can become so active that it robs us of sleep until we make things right.” Then the therapist smiled, trying to lighten the mood. “Would you like me to help you strengthen your conscience?” Her joke was lost on Darren.

“Actually, I was wondering if you had something that would weaken my conscience or remove it altogether,” Darren answered with not a hint of humor. The problem, he had concluded, was his conscience.

As human beings, we sometimes deceive ourselves, believing that our hearts are not as evil as they really are. We think if we could simply quiet our consciences, all would be well. This week, we will examine the connection between our worship altars and the condition of our hearts.

### inScribe

Write out Jeremiah 17:5–10 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 7–9. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `