---
title:  This is a Warning
date:   08/06/2025
---

### inGest

Jeremiah’s prophetic ministry to the southern kingdom of Judah spanned from 627 B.C. until shortly after the fall of Jerusalem in 587 B.C. This was a time of terrible spiritual decline and apostasy. When Jeremiah was only a teen, God appointed him to be His mouthpiece to deliver a message of impending destruction. The northern kingdom of Israel had already gone into Assyrian captivity, but Judah had learned nothing from that catastrophe. Because of Judah’s sins, the Babylonians would soon conquer them and carry them into exile. Jeremiah’s devastating message was exceedingly unpopular, and he suffered much for faithfully delivering it.

Jeremiah contended that the cause of the impending crisis was that their hearts were distant from God. His warning message emphasized the corruption of their hearts. He described the people’s sins as being inscribed on their hearts with a diamond-pointed “pen of iron” (Jer. 17:1), symbolizing the unchanging nature of Judah’s sin. The sin of idolatry had become so pervasive that their children could only remember pagan altars and wooden idols (vv. 2, 3). This was a stark contrast to Deuteronomy 6, where God had commanded parents to teach His precepts diligently to their children. Because Israel had forsaken God’s covenant, Jeremiah prophesied that the nation would lose God’s blessings and be taken captive by enemy nations (v. 4).

Through Jeremiah, God draws a stark contrast between people whose hearts are loyal to Him and those whose hearts trust in humanity (vv. 5–8). The problem is compounded by the fact that the human heart does a terrible job of diagnosing itself. It is exceedingly unreliable and prone to self-deception (v. 9). Only God can search the heart and determine one’s true spiritual condition (v. 10).

God’s diagnosis of the nation’s recalcitrant heart led Jeremiah to exclaim, “Heal me, O LORD, and I shall be healed; Save me, and I shall be saved, For You are my praise” (v. 14). It’s clear that Jeremiah felt his own depravity. He wanted the nation to return to God, but in that moment, he examined his own heart and recognized his own need to restore a right relationship with God.

The chapter closes with God’s desire to see Judah once again keep the Sabbath (vv. 19–27). God was exceedingly serious about this; failure to stop working on God’s Sabbath would bring about the destruction of Jerusalem with a fire that would not be quenched (v. 27). The Sabbath was a sign of Israel’s loyalty and devotion to God. Their attitude toward the Sabbath was indicative of their broken worship altars and the spiritual rot in their hearts.

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from Jeremiah 17. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What does Jeremiah 17 promise to those who obey God and keep His Sabbath holy?`

`What risks did Jeremiah face in delivering an unwanted message of repentance and warning?`