---
title:  Transformed Heart
date:   09/06/2025
---

### inTerpret

It’s quite telling that even at this late moment in Israel’s history, God was still looking for a change in the hearts of His people. When the Bible speaks of the heart, it isn’t referring to the organ in our chest. Rather, it’s the “mind heart” to which Scripture refers—the seat of our thinking, the place from which our thoughts and desires flow. King Solomon spoke of the mind heart as the center of our thinking and feeling when he wrote, “Keep your heart with all diligence, For out of it spring the issues of life” (Prov. 4:23). Jesus also spoke metaphorically of the heart as the source of our thoughts (Mark 7:21).

In Jeremiah 17, centuries of false worship and idolatry had corrupted the mind heart of God’s people. King Josiah, a contemporary of Jeremiah for a time, “had cleansed the land of the idolatrous shrines, but the hearts of the multitude had not been transformed” (Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings [1917], 410). Even after Josiah’s comprehensive destruction of the altars in Judah, the imprint of idolatry remained in the people’s hearts. The prophets of this time made it clear that it’s possible to remove physical idols from the home and still “set up their idols in their hearts” (Ezek. 14:3).

Through the prophet Jeremiah, God appealed to His people to undergo a reformation of the heart, one that could only be accomplished by returning to the worship of the true God. The devotional life of the nation had been replaced by false altars they had fashioned and false gods plucked from heathen nations. The emphasis on the Sabbath in Jeremiah 17 is a direct call to renew true worship and rebuild their devotional altars, so that their hearts would be transformed and their relationship with God renewed.

Why is the link between the worship altar and the mind heart so important? Ellen White explained it as follows: “Every organ of the body was made to be servant to the mind. The mind is the capital of the body.” “The mind controls the whole man. All our actions, good or bad, have their source in the mind. It is the mind that worships God and allies us to heavenly beings” (Mind, Character, and Personality, vol. 1 [1977], 72). She further commented, “No words can properly set forth the deep blessedness of genuine worship” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9 [1909], 143). Genuine worship transforms the mind and renews the heart.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What is an idol of the heart? (Ezek. 14:3–7)`