---
title:  Heart Trouble
date:   11/06/2025
---

### inVite

According to the World Health Organization, cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death worldwide, claiming over 17.9 million lives annually via heart attacks. Heart trouble is a serious global crisis, isn’t it? As devastating as these statistics are for physical heart disease, spiritual heart disease presents an even greater threat. No studies have measured the spiritual death rate of minds co-opted by digital immersion and its lasting effects.

One 2024 study found that among the world’s population of a little over 8 billion, 67.1 percent (5.44 billion people) use the internet and 62 percent (5.07 billion people) use social media (“How Many People Use the Internet—Statistics 2024.” What’s the Big Data? 2024. whatsthebigdata.com/internet-statistics/). On average, social media users spend 2.72 hours per day on social media platforms, totaling 720 billion collective minutes of use each day. Over a year, that’s “more than 260 trillion minutes, or 500 million years of collective human time” (Simon Kemp, “The Time We Spend on Social Media.” DataReportal. 2024. datareportal.com/reports/digital-2024-deep-dive-the-time-we-spend-on-social-media). This doesn’t even include all the time we spend on other digital devices, like TVs and computers. Can we immerse ourselves in largely non-spiritual content for that long without our hearts being impacted or changed?

In Matthew 6:21, Jesus declared, “For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.” In other words, whatever occupies our time, attention, and interest is what we value most. The things of this world constantly compete for first place in our hearts, which is why Jesus urged us to make all these things secondary and “seek first the kingdom of God” (Matt. 6:33). The contest in our hearts is a struggle for who will capture and hold our attention. “It is a law of the mind that it gradually adapts itself to the subjects upon which it is trained to dwell. If occupied with commonplace matters only, it will become dwarfed and enfeebled. If never required to grapple with difficult problems, it will after a time almost lose the power of growth. As an educating power, the Bible is without a rival. In the word of God the mind finds subject for the deepest thought, the loftiest aspiration” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [1890], 596). What we choose to dwell on is what we choose to become. This is a sobering reality in an age of total digital immersion when we so easily pass time by mindlessly scrolling and clicking from one video or post to the next.

What do you do to protect your mind/heart when you’re constantly exposed to digital distractions? How can you use media to enhance your worship experience rather than becoming enslaved by it? To keep their hearts with all diligence, every Christian must grapple with these questions, especially when compromising content is only a click away (Prov. 4:23).

### Journal

`Meditate on Jeremiah 17 again and look for Jesus.`

`How do you keep Jesus your top priority in life when the things of this world compete?`

`What are distractions or responsibilities that crowd into your devotional time and how do you protect quality time with God?`

`Prayer Response:`