---
title:  The Faith Of Friends
date:   19/11/2023
---

A powerful Bible story shows what some men did to help a sick friend. These men carried their friend to Jesus to be healed. This story teaches us an important lesson. Sometimes we must work hard to help people in need.

`Read the story in Luke 5:17–26 (also read the same story in Matthew 9:1–8; Mark 2:3–12). What lessons do we learn from the four men in this story about doing God’s work and helping people in need?`

The four men brought their friend to Jesus. They were responsible for taking care of their friend. God asks us to be the same as this man’s friends. We must lead people to Jesus. We need faith to do this work. We also need to be patient and willing to do whatever God asks. The men came to Jesus. But they couldn’t bring their helpless friend to Jesus because the crowd blocked the way. The men didn’t give up. They found another way to bring their friend to Jesus. The men broke open the roof and lowered their friend down the hole and into the house! Luke shows us that Jesus didn’t scold them for what they did (read Luke 5:20). Jesus rewarded their faith.

Jesus wants us to bring our helpless friends to Him. The Bible says that Jesus is the Most Powerful Doctor. Dr. Jesus wants to forgive and heal suffering people, whoever they are.

Ellen G. White tells us to help people who are helpless: “Don’t wait for someone to tell you to help people. Open your eyes and look around. Get to know the people around you who are helpless, suffering, and in need. . . . Do any of you show in your life the religion that James talks about? Are you free from selfishness and sin? Who wants to do everything they can to help God save people?”—Testimonies for the Church, volume 2, page 29, adapted.

Jesus shows us how to help people who are helpless. Jesus wants us to do this same work. First, we must become friends with people in need. Then we learn about their needs. Finally, we lead them to Jesus. Jesus is the only One who can help them. The four men in this story did these things. We need to do these things, too, wherever we are.

Help lead people to the only One who can save them: Jesus.

`Who are the people around you that need help? What will you do for them?`