---
title:  Jesus’ Plan For Helping People
date:   20/11/2023
---

**What do the stories below teach us about helping people in need?**

`John 5:1–9`

`Mark 1:23–28`

Ellen G. White explains Jesus’ plan for how to help people in need. Jesus’ plan has five parts: “Only Jesus’ plan will give you real success in leading people to Him. The Savior spent time with people. He showed them that He wanted the best for them. Jesus showed people He understood their suffering. Jesus gave them the things they needed. He won their trust. Then Jesus told them, ‘Follow me.’ ”—The Ministry of Healing, page 143, adapted.

Let’s look at each part of Jesus’ plan.

**Part 1: Spend time with people who are in need.** Get to know them. Learn what their needs are and try to help them. Look at what Jesus did with the man lying by the pool. Jesus was there, ready to help him (John 5:1–9).

**Part 2: Show people that you care.** Some people may have trouble trusting us, because they were hurt in the past. These people may have a hard time believing we really care about them. God asks us to show them pity and to be understanding. We must show them that we don’t expect anything back from them when we are nice to them.

**Part 3: Give people what they need.** We must do more than say nice words to people in need. We must do something about their needs. We must follow Jesus’ example with the man who couldn’t move his arms or legs. After the man’s four friends lowered Him to Jesus, Jesus asked the sick man what he wanted. Then Jesus healed the man. In the story about the man who is filled with a demon, Jesus takes complete control. Jesus does for the helpless man what the man can’t do for himself.

**Part 4: Win people’s trust.** When we help people, they will learn to trust us. Then they will pay attention to what we say about Jesus. Jesus didn’t want to heal only people’s bodies. He wanted to heal their hearts. He wanted to give them everlasting life in Him (read John 10:10).

**Part 5: Lead people to Jesus.** Both you and the person you help must have faith in Jesus. Then you can lead people to Him.