---
title:  Strangers In A Strange Land
date:   21/11/2023
---

Today’s news is filled with many reports about strangers and foreigners who left their countries to escape war, natural disasters, or food shortages. Or maybe these people left home because they wanted hope for a better future. Millions of people all over the earth have left their homes to go live in foreign lands. Now they need help to start a new life.

In Matthew 2:13, 14, Jesus was one of these people. His parents, Joseph and Mary, had to leave Bethlehem at night. They ran away because Herod wanted to kill Jesus. The Bible doesn’t tell us anything about their experience in Egypt. But we can imagine in our minds that Jesus and His family had some of the same experiences that strangers and foreigners have today when they come to a new land. Jesus’ experience helps us to have understanding and pity for the many people today who leave their countries because they were attacked or hurt for their religious beliefs.

Of course, it’s easy for us to make friends with people who are the same as us. We may speak the same language or belong to the same race groups. So, we are a lot alike. But we often have a hard time being friends with people who look different from us and don’t speak our language. We don’t share the same religious beliefs and don’t eat the same food. The Good News about Jesus commands us to break the “walls” that separate us from other people. We must get to know people in need, whoever they are, even if they are different than we are.

`Read Deuteronomy 10:19; Psalm 146:9; Romans 12:13; and Leviticus 23:22. What important idea do these verses teach us?`

How can we help strangers and foreigners? Sometimes this work can be very hard. In some countries you aren’t allowed to spend time with foreigners or help them. We must do the best we can anyway. We must help people whenever we can and wherever we can. Remember, some people have suffered terrible things. So, they need our help.

Start with prayer. Then learn about the foreigners and strangers from other countries who have moved to your area. Many places have shelters for them. You can start working for one of these centers. Or maybe your local church Sabbath School can start a special center for these groups.