---
title:  To Help The Hurting
date:   22/11/2023
---

We’ve all had an experience that has shown how painful life really can be, right? Maybe you live in a land of plenty where people worship money. Or maybe you live in a country where most people are very poor and have very little. Wherever you live, people are suffering. If you’ve read or watched the news, you know that people in rich countries spend lots of money on pills to help them not to feel sad or low. All those expensive pills show us that money doesn’t buy us happiness or peace.

`“The Spirit of the Lord is on me. He has chosen me to tell good news to the poor. He sent me to tell prisoners that they are free and to tell the blind that they can see again. He sent me to free [make free] those [people] who have been treated [hurt] badly’ ” (Luke 4:18, ERV). What does this verse teach us about the work Jesus did and the work we must do for the people around us?`

God wants us to help people all around us. We don’t know if or when they will accept Jesus. The most important work we can do is to lead people to Jesus. At the same time, we must help people in need because they need help. We help them because we accept Jesus as our Lord. So, helping other people is part of the work God asks us to do.

We must follow Jesus’ example to help people in need. This Bible rule is important. We don’t know if everyone we help will accept Jesus. We must help them anyway.

If we really want to help other people, we need to learn what they need. Every people group has its way of showing friendship. In India, you serve food or a drink to your guests. For sure, it’s easy to write a check and give an offering to help a stranger we don’t know. It’s harder to comfort a friend who lost a loved one. Both of these people have needs. What your friend may need may be more than money or nice things. Often the loving support you give to someone in a time of loss can be much more helpful.

Remember this important rule: you are Jesus’ helper. Helping our friends starts first with showing unselfish love to them. Try to understand their needs first before trying to offer them help. Give them the help they need, even if you know they aren’t ready to follow Jesus.

`What’s the message for us in Matthew 25:34–40?`