---
title:  The Strongest Love
date:   23/11/2023
---

There will always be many people who need your help: close friends, strangers far away, and foreigners who left their country looking for hope and a new life. We should do what we can do to help them whenever we can. During Jesus’ time on this earth, He helped people. Sometimes, Jesus went to the people who needed Him. Other times, people came to Jesus, or their friends brought them to Jesus.

`Jesus said, “ ‘The greatest [strongest] love people can show is to die for their friends’ ” (John 15:13, ERV). How can we show this important rule in our work for God?`

A family went to the islands of Trinidad and Tobago in the Caribbean Sea. They served God there for six years. For the first three years, the family lived in a mostly Hindu and Muslim community. Many Hindus complained because in the past Christians refused to come to their Thanksgiving celebration each year. Soon, the Christian family became friends with a Hindu. Their new Hindu friend invited them to attend a Thanksgiving celebration. The Christian family followed Jesus’ example. Jesus visited His friends when they invited Him to their special celebrations. So, the family accepted the invitation. Did you know that Hindus believe that visitors or friends bring blessings to the home of the person who invited them?

Make a new friend this week. First, think about where you live. Do you know anyone in your area who came to your town from another country? How about the people who live on your street? Do you know all of them? Of course, making friends with a stranger is not an easy task. Ask God for help. He knows everyone and knows the stranger that you can become friends with. Remember, the plan is to be friends with people so that you can lead them to God for help.

`Task #1: Learn about foreigners or non-Christians in your area. Visit www.Joshuaproject.net to learn more.`

`Task #2: Have you met someone new who lives near you? Pray for this person after answering these questions: Am I friends with this person the same way Jesus was friends with people? Do I know this person’s needs? How can I lead this person to Jesus for healing?`