---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   24/11/2023
---

Read Arthur White, “A Few Days at Long Point,” Ellen G. White: The Australian Years: 1891–1900, volume 4, pages 100–104.

Jesus was friendly to foreigners because He wanted to save them (Matthew 8:28–34; Mark 5:1–20). God also asks us to make friends and help strangers and foreigners. We always must remember this Bible truth: Jesus died for everyone. Jesus “gave his life to pay for our sins. But he not only paid for our sins. He also paid for the sins of the whole world [all people]” (1 John 2:2, NIrV).

“We aren’t doing what God wants us to do when we show love only for our family members. . . .

“When the Lord tells us to help people who aren’t part of our family, He doesn’t want us to stop loving or caring for our family members or the people from our country. Jesus doesn’t want us to love them any less than we do. At the same time, Jesus wants us to love and help other people, too. God has blessed us. He wants us to share His blessings with other people.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, October 15, 1895, adapted.

God asks us to be a blessing to people who are not part of our family. We may not enjoy his work, or this work may be very hard. We must remember that Jesus commands us to do this work (Acts 1:8; Mark 11:17). So, we must help the helpless people and strangers around us if we want to be Jesus’ followers.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus asks us to help people. What if the things you must do to help them are not always easy? Why must you be willing to help them anyway?`

`Some people accused Jesus of evil behavior while He did God’s work: “ ‘He eats too much and drinks too much. He is a friend of tax collectors and “sinners” ’ ” (Matthew 11:19, ICB). Why did people say these things about Jesus? What was Jesus doing? What does this story teach us about our work for God?`

`What if someone who isn’t a Christian asks you to join their celebration? Should you go? How can you accept their invitation and, at the same time, follow Bible truth?`