---
title:  God’s Invitation
date:  28/02/2022
---

`Read Hebrews 12:18–21. What was the experience of Israel at Mount Sinai?`

When God called the Israelites from Egypt, His plan was to create a personal, intimate relationship with them. He said, “ ‘ “You have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagles’ wings and brought you to Myself” ’ ” (Exod. 19:3, 4, NKJV).

Thus, through Moses, God gave the necessary instructions to prepare the people to meet with Him. The people needed to consecrate themselves first (Exod. 19:10–15). Those who ascended to the foot of the mountain without preparation would die. Nevertheless, once the people had prepared themselves for two days, then “ ‘when the trumpet sounds a long blast’ ” on the third day, God instructed that the people “ ‘shall come up to the mountain’ ” (Exod. 19:13, ESV). He wanted them to have the experience Moses and the leaders of the people would have when they ascended the mountain and “beheld God, and ate and drank” in His presence (Exod. 24:9–11, ESV). The people later recognized that they had seen God’s glory and that it was possible for God to speak “ ‘ “with man, and man still live” ’ ” (Deut. 5:24, ESV). But, when the moment came, they lacked faith. Moses explained years later: “ ‘You were afraid because of the fire, and you did not go up into the mountain’ ” (Deut. 5:5, ESV). Instead, they asked Moses to be their intermediary (Deut. 5:25–27, compare with Exod. 20:18–21).

God’s manifestation of His holiness at Mount Sinai was to teach the people to learn to “fear,” or respect, Him. The “fear of the Lord” leads to life, wisdom, and honor (Deut. 4:10; compare with Ps. 111:10, Prov. 1:7, Prov. 9:10, Prov. 10:27)—and also to the lesson that He is merciful and gracious (Exod. 34:4–8). Thus, while God wanted Israel to come to Him, the people became afraid and requested for Moses to be their intermediary. The description in Hebrews of the events at Sinai follows, primarily, Moses’ reminder to the people of their lack of faith and their apostasy with the golden calf, and how he was afraid of meeting God because of their sin _(Deut. 9:19)_. The people’s reaction was not God’s plan for them; it was, instead, the result of their faithlessness.

`Because of Jesus, why should we not be afraid to draw near to a holy God? What are the conditions, however, for us to be able to draw near?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

By His mighty power, notwithstanding the opposition of Pharaoh, God delivered His people from Egypt, that they might keep the law which had been given in Eden. He brought them to Sinai to hear the proclamation of this law.<br/>
By proclaiming the Ten Commandments to the children of Israel with His own voice, God demonstrated their importance. In awful grandeur He made known His majesty and authority as Ruler of the world. This He did to impress the people with the sacredness of His law and the importance of obeying it. The power and glory with which the law was given reveal its importance. It is the faith once delivered to the saints by Christ our Redeemer speaking from Sinai.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 8, pp. 197, 198.

Most earnestly [David] studied the ways of God, expressed by Christ when enshrouded in the pillar of cloud, and given to Moses to be faithfully repeated to all Israel. . . . As David considered His pledges and promises to them, knowing they were for all who need them as much as for Israel, he appropriated them to himself, saying, “I will remember the works of the Lord: surely I will remember thy wonders of old. I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doing.”<br/>
His faith laid hold of God, and he was strengthened and encouraged; although he recognized God’s ways as mysterious, yet he knew they were merciful and good; for this was His character as revealed to Moses: “The Lord descended in the cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of the Lord. And the Lord passed by before him, and proclaimed, The Lord, The Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth.”—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 3, p. 1149.

The Captain of our salvation strengthens His followers, not with scientific falsehoods, but with genuine faith in the word of a personal God. This word is repeated over and over and over again with deeper affirmative power. Satan brings all his powers to the assault in the last close conflict, and the endurance of the follower of Christ is taxed to the utmost. At times it seems that he must yield. But a word of prayer to the Lord Jesus goes like an arrow to the throne of God, and angels of God are sent to the field of battle. The tide is turned . . . and the oppressed are delivered. The believing, harassed souls are borne up as on eagles’ wings, and the victory is gained. . . .<br/>
What wonderful lessons we shall learn as the result of depending constantly on the sufficiency of Christ. He who is learning these lessons need not depend on another’s experience. He has the witness in himself, and his experience is the actual knowledge that Christ is all-sufficient, faithful, and powerful. He has the realization of the promise, “My grace is sufficient for thee” (2 Corinthians 12:9).—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 297.