---
title:  They Will See His Face
date:  03/03/2022
---

`Read Hebrews 12:22–24. In what sense have we arrived at the heavenly Jerusalem into the presence of God?`

It is argued that believers “have come” to Mount Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem, through faith. In this sense, their experience anticipates the future. Thus, the heavenly Jerusalem belongs to the realm of the things “hoped for” and “not seen” but nevertheless assured to us through faith (Heb. 11:1).

While true, this is not the whole meaning of this passage. We also have arrived at Mount Zion, in the very presence of God, through our representative Jesus (Eph. 2:5, 6; Col. 3:1). Jesus’ ascension is not a matter of faith, but of fact. It is this historical dimension of Jesus’ ascension that provides compelling force to the exhortation of Hebrews to hold fast to our confession (Heb. 4:14, Heb. 10:23). Paul says: “Since . . . we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, . . . let us . . . with confidence draw near” (Heb. 4:14, 16, ESV).

Thus, we already have arrived through our Representative and, therefore, should act accordingly. Through Him, we “have tasted the heavenly gift . . . and have tasted the goodness of the word of God and the powers of the age to come” (Heb. 6:4, 5, ESV). The reality of Jesus’ ascension and ministry in the heavenly sanctuary is “a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul” (Heb. 6:19, ESV), the guarantee that the promises have substance and are worthy of confidence (Heb. 7:22). For us, faith has a historical anchor.

God’s purpose will be fulfilled not only in Jesus, however, but also in us. We have said that Jesus’ ascension fulfilled the typology of the first two yearly pilgrimages of Israel, Passover and Pentecost. According to Hebrews and the book of Revelation, the last pilgrimage, the Feast of Booths, is yet to be fulfilled. We will celebrate it with Jesus when we are in the “city . . . whose architect and builder is God,” in the heavenly homeland (Heb. 11:10, NIV; see also verses 13–16). We will not build booths, but God’s booth, or tent, will descend from heaven, and we will live with Him forever (Rev. 7:15–17, Rev. 21:1–4, Rev. 22:1–5, Num. 6:24–26).

`How can we learn to make the promise of eternal life real to ourselves now, amid a world so full of pain and suffering? What answer can you give to those who say that this all is just a fantasy to help us feel better about our life here and now?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen” (Hebrews 11:1). Have we not proved this in the past as we have moved out in faith to produce the things now seen? . . . Faith is not only to look forward to things unseen; it is to be confirmed by looking at past experience, at tangible results, the verification of God’s Word. . . . Pray, “Lord, increase my faith.” Faith quickens the senses to work diligently to produce results. Faith elevates and ennobles the powers of the soul, enabling it to lay hold upon the unseen. . . .<br/>
Looking unto Jesus, not only as our Example, but as the Author and Finisher of our faith, let us go forward, having confidence that He will supply us with all the strength that is needed for every duty.—_The Upward Look_, p. 72.

Faith is needed in the smaller no less than in the greater affairs of life. In all our daily interests and occupations the sustaining strength of God becomes real to us through an abiding trust. . . .<br/>
Only the sense of God’s presence can banish the fear that, for the timid child, would make life a burden. Let him fix in his memory the promise, “The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them.” Let him read that wonderful story of Elisha in the mountain city, and, between him and the hosts of armed foemen, a mighty encircling band of heavenly angels. Let him read how to Peter, in prison and condemned to death, God’s angel appeared; how, past the armed guards, the massive doors and great iron gateway with their bolts and bars, the angel led God’s servant forth in safety. . . .<br/>
In no less marked a manner than He wrought then will He work now wherever there are hearts of faith to be channels of His power.—_Reflecting Christ_, p. 127.

“Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on Me hath everlasting life.” Through the beloved John, who listened to these words, the Holy Spirit declared to the churches, “This is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in His Son. He that hath the Son hath life.” 1 John 5:11, 12. And Jesus said, “I will raise him up at the last day.” Christ became one flesh with us, in order that we might become one spirit with Him. It is by virtue of this union that we are to come forth from the grave,—not merely as a manifestation of the power of Christ, but because, through faith, His life has become ours. Those who see Christ in His true character, and receive Him into the heart, have everlasting life. It is through the Spirit that Christ dwells in us; and the Spirit of God, received into the heart by faith, is the beginning of the life eternal.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 388.