---
title:  Further Thought
date:  04/03/2022
---

“Christ’s ascension to heaven was the signal that His followers were to receive the promised blessing. For this they were to wait before they entered upon their work. When Christ passed within the heavenly gates, He was enthroned amidst the adoration of the angels. As soon as this ceremony was completed, the Holy Spirit descended upon the disciples in rich currents, and Christ was indeed glorified, even with the glory which He had with the Father from all eternity. The Pentecostal outpouring was Heaven’s communication that the Redeemer’s inauguration was accomplished. According to His promise He had sent the Holy Spirit from heaven to His followers as a token that He had, as priest and king, received all authority in heaven and on earth, and was the Anointed One over His people. . . .

“They could speak the name of Jesus with assurance; for was He not their Friend and Elder Brother? Brought into close communion with Christ, they sat with Him in heavenly places. With what burning language they clothed their ideas as they bore witness for Him!”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 38, 46.

**Discussion Questions**:

`The psalmist said, “My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God?” (Ps. 42:2, ESV). How can we have the same thirst to come into the presence of God? If we don’t rejoice now in the presence of God as we worship Him and come before His presence in faith, will we rejoice in the future? What are the factors that lead to joy before God?`

`In a book mocking faith, someone created a robot that supposedly did our believing for us. Though this was a spoof, how can we be careful not to do as Israel did in the desert, and that is to make a request for intermediaries between us and God? We tend to allow other people to study the Bible in our behalf and find the gems of truth in the Bible. Some people may feel tempted to think that the prayers of others in their behalf carry more weight before God than their own prayers. Why should we avoid this spiritual trap? Why, because of Jesus, can we approach God without the need of anyone else?`

`Hebrews is about assurance of salvation. How, though, must we be careful not to mistake presumption for assurance?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_God’s Amazing Grace_, “Christ the Mediator,” p. 154;<br/>
_Selected Messages_, “Christ Our High Priest,” book 1, pp. 341, 342.<br/>