---
title:  When Have the Innocent Perished?
date:   31/10/2016
---

### When Have the Innocent Perished?

```Read Job 2:11–13. What does it tell us about how Job’s friends viewed his situation?```

Having heard about what happened to Job, these men made “an appointment” (Job 2:11, NKJV); that is, they planned to come together and see their friend. The texts convey the idea that they were stunned at what they saw, and they began the process of mourning with him.

According to the text, they sat silently, never saying a word. After all, what do you say to someone in a position such as Job’s? However, once Job first spoke, uttering his complaints, these men had plenty to say.

```Read Job 4:1–11. What is the gist of Eliphaz’s words to Job?```

Perhaps a good opening for a book on grief counseling could feature Eliphaz here. The opening chapter could have been titled “What Not to Say to a Grieving Soul.” Though obviously these men sympathized with Job, that sympathy went only so far. It seems that for Eliphaz, theological purity was more important than basic consolation. It’s hard to imagine someone coming up to a person going through all that Job was going through and saying, basically, Well, you must have deserved it, because God is just, and only the wicked suffer like this.

Even if one thought that this was the situation in Job’s case, what good did it do to say it to him? Suppose a speeding driver got into a car accident and lost his entire family. Can you imagine someone going up to him, amid his grief, and saying to him right away, God is punishing you for your speeding? The problem with Eliphaz’s words isn’t just the questionable theology; the bigger issue is his insensitivity to Job and all that he is going through.
      
```Think about a time people comforted you amid loss and pain. What did they say? How did they say it? What did you learn from that experience that could help you when you are in the position of having to comfort someone else?```