---
title:  Praying for People Who Reject God
date:   30/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 24:1–8; Exodus 24:9–18; Ezekiel 36:26–28; Exodus 25:1–9; Exodus 31:1–18.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Moses told the people all the rules and commands from the Lordord. Then all the people said, ‘We will obey all the commands that the Lord has spoken’ ” (Exodus 24:3, ERV).

The Lord was Israel’s God and Savior. The Lord made them and gave them life. As their God, the Lord wanted to be with His people and to live among them. The Lord made us for close fellowship with Him. We know that strong relationships with other people take time and effort. The same is true with our relationship with God. Our relationship with God can be a growth-filled experience that makes us a better person. But we must spend time with Him. So how do we do that? We must study the Bible to learn what God wants to say to us. We must pray. When we pray, we open our hearts to God. We must share with other people the Good News that Jesus saves us from our sins. As God blesses us, we will bring blessings into the lives of other people.

We must keep looking to Jesus, not ourselves (Hebrews 12:1, 2). When we connect with Him, God can give us the strength to follow His teachings and obey Bible truth. End-time Christians will keep the commandments of God and have “the faith of Jesus” (Revelation 14:12, NKJV).

So, what we must do is simple, really: we love God. Because we love Him, we obey Him.