---
title:  The Book And The Blood
date:   31/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`God made a Promise with His people. To show the people that God accepted the Promise, Moses did two things: (1) he read from the book of God’s Promise, and (2) he splashed some of the blood on the people. Why are these two things so important? How do they help show the special relationship that God wants with His people? Read Exodus 24:1–8 for the answers.`

The living God of the Bible is the God of relationships. God cares more about people than anything else. So, God pays close attention to people. The reason for the things that God does is so that He can build a personal relationship with us. God is love. So, He must care about relationships, right? How can there be love without relationships?

Jesus said, “ ‘I will be lifted up [nailed to a cross and lifted up to die] from the earth. When that happens, I will draw [lead] all people to myself’ ” (John 12:32, ERV). God wants us to have good behavior, the correct teachings, and right actions. Above all these things, God wants us to have a personal and close relationship with Him. We can see this important Bible truth in the two things God gave us when He made the earth and skies in a week: God gave us the Sabbath and marriage (Genesis 1–2). The Sabbath is about our spiritual relationship with God. Marriage is about our relationship with our husband or wife. So, both the Sabbath and marriage are really about relationships.

God agreed to the Promise and accepted it at Sinai to show His people the special relationship that He wanted with them. The people shouted two times that they would obey God: “ ‘We will do everything that the Lord has said. We will obey’ ” (Exodus 24:7, ICB). The people meant what they said. But they didn’t know that they were weak and broken. So, they had no strength to obey. But Moses did something to give them hope. Moses splashed some of the blood on the people. The blood showed that Israel could obey God, but only with Jesus’ help.

We don’t want to accept that we are weak and broken sinners. We want to do evil. To do good, we must have help from outside ourselves. This help comes only from God, His mercy, the Bible, and the Holy Spirit. Even with all this help, we want to do evil so easily, right?

That’s why a close personal relationship with God was as important to the people at Sinai as it is to us today.