---
title:  Seeing God
date:   01/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 24:9–18. What amazing experience did God give the Israelites here?`

After God accepted the Promise with His people, Moses again climbed Sinai. At the start of this climb, Moses wasn’t alone. He had the company of 73 Israelite leaders. The leaders had an amazing experience: they saw God. The leaders ate together. The meal showed that they accepted God’s Promise. The meal was a special feast or banquet. The God of Israel was their Host. God deeply honored these leaders when He invited them to the banquet.

In the Middle East during Bible times, eating together was an important experience and a big honor. People who ate together offered each other the gifts of forgiveness and friendship. People who ate together were there for each other and stayed together in hard times. When people ate together, they made a promise without words. They promised that if something should happen later to any one of them, they would come and help. So, to be invited to a meal was a special honor that wasn’t given to everyone.

What if a guest said no to a dinner invitation? Then he insulted the host of the dinner. To reject an invitation was one of the worst insults in Bible times. This information helps us understand the New Testament stories about Jesus who ate with sinners. The Jewish leaders scolded Jesus for eating with them (Luke 5:30). When Christians celebrate the Lord’s Supper, they also make a close connection with other Christians, who are sinners the same as they are. During the Lord’s Supper, we celebrate the forgiveness Jesus gives us. We celebrate His saving mercy (read Matthew 26:26–30; Mark 14:22–25; 1 Corinthians 11:23–29).

Some of the men who went up the mountain with Moses later fell into sin and lost their lives (read Leviticus 10:1, 2, 9). Yes, these men had a deep experience with God on the mountain and at the feast. But their lives weren’t changed for the better because of that experience. This story teaches us a powerful lesson. Just because we have Bible truth doesn’t mean we are saved.

`Think more about what happened to these men. Now think about how God has honored our church with so much Bible truth. What warning should this sad story give to us as Adventists?`