---
title:  Power To Obey
date:   02/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How do we become obedient? Read Ezekiel 36:26–28 for the answer.`

Three times, the Israelites announce that they will obey God (Exodus 19:8; Exodus 24:3, 7). Obedience is important, even if we are weak, broken sinners, as the Bible teaches.

So how, then, can we obey God?

The good news is that when God commands us to do something, He gives us the power to do it. The help that is not inside of us comes from outside us and gives us strength to do everything God asks. God does the work in us. The prophet Ezekiel, God’s special messenger, says that only God can change our hearts (Ezekiel 36:26, 27). As Joshua told God’s people: “ ‘You will not be able to serve the Lord well enough’ ” (Joshua 24:19, ICB). So, we must allow God to remove our stubborn heart of stone and replace it with a tender heart of flesh. This new heart is loving and gentle and can obey Him.

But first, we must decide to follow God. We must choose with our free will to give ourselves to God every moment of our lives. We don’t have the power to serve Him without His help. But when we give our weakness to God, He will make us strong. As Paul says, “When I am weak, then I am truly [really] strong” (2 Corinthians 12:10, ICB).

Now let’s look at Ezekiel 36 again, this time at verses 24–30. Do you see all the work that God does? God gathers, cleans, removes, gives, puts, and moves you to carefully keep His law. What God is doing, you will do. God understands you. If you stay close to Him in your heart, His actions will become yours. Then you and God will become so alike that all your thoughts, feelings, behavior, and actions will come from Him. The agreement between God and you will be powerful and full of life and energy.

In Ezekiel 36:27, the Lord says, “ ‘I will put my Spirit inside you and change you so that you will obey my laws. You will carefully obey my commands’ ” (ERV). Again, do you see how God does the work? God commands people to obey Him and then gives them the power to obey. God always helps His people to do what He asks. Obedience is God’s gift to us, the same as His forgiveness and saving mercy are (Philippians 2:13).