---
title:  Among His People
date:   03/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God used many different things to teach His people Bible truth. One of the things God used was the Holy Tent. The work done in the Holy Tent taught the Israelites about Jesus and His plan to save them. Jesus would come hundreds of years later and do everything the Holy Tent showed He would do.

`Read Exodus 25:1–9. What important Bible truths do you see in these verses?`

God led His people out of Egypt and was already close to them in His heart. But He wanted Moses to build Him a Holy Tent for a special reason: “ ‘The people must build a holy place for me. Then I can live among them’ ” (Exodus 25:8, ICB). God wanted to show His people that He was really among them. Yes, the people sinned many times. But God never gave up on His people. “After the people confessed their sins, God forgave them and accepted them again.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 343. Then God gave the people the command to build Him a special place to live among them.

The Bible tells us that God made the skies and the earth and doesn’t live in man-made temples and buildings: “ ‘But the Most High God does not live in houses built by [with] human hands. This is what the prophet [special messenger] writes: ‘The Lord says, Heaven is my throne, and the earth is where I rest my feet. So do you think you can build a house for me?’ ” (Acts 7:47–50, ERV; also read Acts 17:24). Also, King Solomon says: “ ‘But, God, can you really live here on the earth? Even the sky and the highest place in heaven cannot contain you. Certainly this house which I have built cannot contain you either [also]’ ” (1 Kings 8:27, ICB). The Holy Tent was the place where God planned to make Himself known to His people.

The Israelites brought free-will offerings to Moses to build the Holy Tent. The people brought precious and expensive gifts, including gold, silver, brass, wood, fine cloth, olive oil, and spices. In Exodus 25:10–27:21, Moses gives us much information about the Holy Tent. God gave Moses a building plan with important information about how to build and furnish the Holy Tent. Moses had to follow God’s plan exactly (Exodus 25:9, 40; Exodus 26:30). The Holy Tent on earth was an exact copy of the temple in heaven (Hebrews 8:1, 2; Hebrews 9:11).