---
title:  Filled With God’s Spirit
date:   04/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God told Moses what His people needed to do to get ready to worship Him. Priests or spiritual leaders must wear special clothes. The high priest or top spiritual leader wore a special piece of clothing named an ephod. The ephod contained the names of the sons of Israel. The high priest also wore a special chest covering over his heart (Exodus 28). All the priests must be given to God to serve Him in His holy work. God also told Moses how to carefully get other things ready that would be used in worshiping Him: the altar for burning sweet-smelling perfume, the bowl for washing, and the holy oil (Exodus 30).

`Read Exodus 31:1–18. What special help did God give Moses so that all the Holy Tent’s furniture and objects would be made and built in a beautiful and correct way?`

For the first time in the Bible, we read that God will fill a person with His Spirit. What does that mean? God gave Bezalel power to work on the Holy Tent. God filled Bezalel with knowledge. God gave Bezalel the skills and the knowhow needed to do the work. Also, God gave Aholiab and many other skilled workers the same Spirit to help in this work.

During this time, God also announces that His Sabbath is an agreement between Him and His people. The Sabbath shows that He makes them holy. Later, the Lord shares this same idea with Ezekiel: “ ‘I also gave them my Sabbaths. They were to be a sign between us. Then they would know that I am the Lord. I make them holy’ ” (Ezekiel 20:12, ICB).

The Sabbath helps us remember that the Lord made us (Genesis 2:2, 3) and saves us. He is our God (Deuteronomy 5:15; Mark 2:27, 28). Our God is holy. He changes people for the better. His Holy Spirit and Bible truth cause people to become loving, kind, unselfish, and forgiving.

The most precious gift God gave to Moses was the Ten Commandments (Exodus 31:18). God wrote the law on two pieces of stone and gave them to Moses (Exodus 31:18; Deuteronomy 9:9–11). These two pieces of stone were put inside the holy box in the Most Holy Room of the Holy Tent. Another name for the holy box was the ark of the Promise. A lid sat on top of the holy box (Exodus 25:21). Another name for this lid was the mercy cover or mercy seat.