---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   05/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Tabernacle and Its Services,” pages 343–353, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

The Holy Tent was a special place where God forgave His people and made them clean from all their sins. The Holy Tent showed God’s whole plan to save people. God showed this plan to His people in the desert. The Holy Tent taught the Israelites about forgiveness, being made holy, and God’s work as Judge. Every animal offering showed the death of Jesus, the forgiveness of sins, and God’s final work to remove all sin from heaven and earth. The Holy Tent also contained God’s law. His law shows us how to be holy.

“The law of God was put inside the holy box or ark of the Promise. God’s law was both holy and fair. His law said that the sinner must die. But above the law was the cover or mercy seat. God appeared above the mercy seat. He gave pardon to the sinner who confessed his sins. The Holy Tent and all its offerings showed the work that Jesus did to save us. In Jesus’ work, ‘God’s truth and faithful love join together. His peace and holiness [being holy] kiss each other.’ Psalm 85:10 [NIrV].”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 349, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`How many times did you say, “I will do everything the Lord tells me to do”? How much success did you have?`

`The Sabbath was a sign between God and His people that the Lord would make them holy. How are being holy and obedient connected with Sabbath keeping?`

`The Holy Tent showed God’s saving plan in symbols. What do these symbols tell us about why we must depend completely on God to save us?`

`The top religious leader or high priest brought the blood of an animal offering into the Most Holy Room of the Holy Tent on one day each year. This blood was a word picture for the people’s sins. How does this amazing Bible truth show us what Jesus did on the cross for us? How does the blood show what He does for us now in heaven?`