---
title:  Small Groups in Scripture
date:  31/08/2020
---

The Bible provides numerous examples of small groups praying, fellowshiping, encouraging one another, and laboring together for Christ. These groups provided God’s people the opportunity to share responsibilities and fully utilize their varied gifts. That is, small groups can provide the opportunity for the Lord to use each of us more fully.

`Read Exodus 18:21–25. What providential counsel did Moses’ father-in-law Jethro provide that made a significant difference for Moses? Why was this plan so vitally important?`

Every individual in the camp of Israel became part of a group of ten, led by a godly official. These small groups were a place for problem solving, but they were also much more. They were places of fellowship where problems could be prevented and spiritual life nurtured. They were places of vision where God’s plans for Israel could be shared. In groups like this, people could form tight and caring relationships that could help all involved work through whatever the issues were that they were facing. No question—then as well as now, people struggled with things that others could help them with. Small groups provide opportunities for warm, caring fellowship, spiritual growth, and problem solving.

It is fascinating that small group specialists tell us that the ideal size for group interaction is between six and twelve people. This is the exact size that both Moses and Jesus employed in forming their groups.

`Read Luke 6:12, 13; Matthew 10:1; and Mark 3:13–15. What was Jesus’ twofold purpose in calling the disciples and selecting them to be part of His small group ministry?`

Jesus’ purpose in calling the disciples was to prepare them both spiritually and practically for their mission to the world. In fellowship with Him, they would grow in grace. In the context of their small group meetings, they would learn how to minister more effectively. Day by day, as they observed Jesus ministering to the needs of people around Him, they would learn by observation how to use their gifts. The purpose of Jesus’ small groups was both spiritual nurture and outreach.

`Think about a time when you were involved with a small group of people, whatever the circumstances, who cared about each other and who were working for a common goal. What did you learn from that which could help you understand the value of small groups in the context of our faith?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"God gave to Moses special direction for the management of his work. He directed Moses to associate men with him as counselors, that his burdens might be lightened. Through Jethro the message was given: “Hearken now unto my voice, I will give thee counsel, and God shall be with thee: Be thou for the people to Godward, that thou mayest bring the causes unto God: and thou shalt teach them ordinances and laws, and shalt show them the way wherein they must walk, and the work that they must do. Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness; and place such over them, to be rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens: and let them judge the people at all seasons: and it shall be, that every great matter they shall bring unto thee, but every small matter they shall judge: so shall it be easier for thyself, and they shall bear the burden with thee... {TM 340.1}

This counsel is for us. It should be heeded. {TM 341.1}"

The order that was maintained in the early Christian church made it possible for them to move forward solidly as a well-disciplined army clad with the armor of God. The companies of believers, though scattered over a large territory, were all members of one body; all moved in concert and in harmony with one another. When dissension arose in a local church, as later it did arise in Antioch and elsewhere, and the believers were unable to come to an agreement among themselves, such matters were not permitted to create a division in the church, but were referred to a general council of the entire body of believers, made up of appointed delegates from the various local churches, with the apostles and elders in positions of leading responsibility. Thus the efforts of Satan to attack the church in isolated places were met by concerted action on the part of all, and the plans of the enemy to disrupt and destroy were thwarted. {AA 95.3}

"The Lord desires His people to arise and do their appointed work. The responsibility of warning the world rests not upon the ministry alone. The lay members of the church are to share in the work of soul saving. ... Let companies be organized to search for souls. Let the church members visit their neighbors and open to them the Scriptures. Some may be set to work in the hedges, and thus, by wise planning, the truth may be preached in all districts. {MM 313.2}

With perseverance in this work, increasing aptitude for it will come, and many will see fruit of their labors in the salvation of souls. These converted ones will, in turn, teach others. Thus the seed will be sown in many places, and the truth be proclaimed to all. {MM 313.3}"