---
title:  Organized for Service
date:  01/09/2020
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:12–25. How does the human body provide an excellent illustration of working together harmoniously in small groups?`

Paul not only reveals the importance of spiritual gifts in the life of the church, he also suggests a model of how they can be organized. He discusses spiritual gifts in the context of the body of Christ and how it can work.

A study of anatomy and physiology reveals that the organs of the body are organized into different interrelated systems. For example, the digestive, cardio-vascular, respiratory, and skeletal are just a few of the body’s complex organ systems. Spiritual gifts are like the different parts of the body. They function best when organized into systems or groups. In fact, in most cases they cannot function alone. Our bodies are not just a lump of separate organs free-lancing away at whatever they do. Each bodily function is organized into a tightly-knit system that works together toward a common goal.

All this tells us something about the environment in which we can best use our spiritual gifts. It is so easy to get discouraged when we function alone, but when we are part of a small group with people of similar interests and goals, we find that our efforts can be much better focused and greatly magnified.

Small groups provide the best environment to exercise our spiritual gifts and can become the heart of a local congregation’s outreach ministry.

Ellen G. White underlines the value of small groups in these words: “The formation of small companies as a basis of Christian effort has been presented to me by One who cannot err. If there is a large number in the church, let the members be formed into small companies, to work not only for the church members, but for unbelievers. If in one place there are only two or three who know the truth, let them form themselves into a band of workers. Let them keep their bond of union unbroken, pressing together in love and unity, encouraging one another to advance, each gaining courage and strength from the assistance of the others.”—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, pp. 21, 22.

Small group ministry is ordained by God to enable each church member to grow spiritually, experience warm fellowship, and utilize their God-given gifts in service.

`Reflect on Ellen G. White’s statement above. Analyze it phrase by phrase. How can this divine counsel be implemented in your church?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"In every large city there should be corps of organized, well-disciplined workers; not merely one or two, but scores should be set to work. ... {MM 300.5}

I have been shown that in our labor for the enlightenment of the people in the large cities the work has not been as well organized or the methods of labor as efficient as in other churches that have not the great light we regard as so essential. Why is this? ... {MM 301.1}

More attention should be given to training and educating missionaries with a special reference to work in the cities. Each company of workers should be under the direction of a competent leader, and it should ever be kept before them that they are to be missionaries in the highest sense of the term. Such systematic labor, wisely conducted, would produce blessed results. {MM 301.2}"

Let companies now be quickly organized to go out two and two, and labor in the Spirit of Christ, following His plans. Even though some Judas may introduce himself into the ranks of the workers, the Lord will care for the work. His angels will go before and prepare the way. Before this time, every large city should have heard the testing message, and thousands should have been brought to a knowledge of the truth. Wake up the churches, take the light from under the bushel. {MM 303.1}

"A special work is to be done in places where people are constantly coming and going. Christ labored in Capernaum much of the time because this was a place through which travelers were constantly passing and where many often tarried. {CH 500.4}

Christ sought the people where they were and placed before them the great truths in regard to His kingdom. As He went from place to place, He blessed and comforted the suffering and healed the sick. This is our work. Small companies are to go forth to do the work to which Christ appointed His disciples. While laboring as evangelists they can visit the sick, praying with them and, if need be, treating them, not with medicines but with the remedies provided in nature. {CH 501.1}"

"The necessity of experimental religion must be urged upon those who accept the theory of the truth. Ministers must keep their own souls in the love of God and then impress upon the people the necessity of an individual consecration, a personal conversion. All must obtain a living experience for themselves; they must have Christ enshrined in the heart, his Spirit controlling the affections, or their profession of faith is of no value, and their condition will be even worse than if they had never heard the truth. {5T 619.1}

Such arrangements should be made for the little companies accepting the truth as shall secure the prosperity of the church. One man may be appointed to lead for a week or a month, then another for a few weeks; and thus different persons may be enlisted in the work... {5T 619.2}"