---
title: Growing Opposition
date: 26/10/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 5, 6**

**Growing Opposition**

Chapters 5–12 of John’s Gospel introduce us to a new phase of Jesus’ ministry. While He had already had some encounters with the religious leaders (John 2:13–25), they began to grow more frequent. Jesus started performing signs and engaging in conversation in a more direct manner. The reason He came to earth—to reveal the Father (1:18)—became more pronounced. Some reacted negatively to this revelation (1:9–12), and those people eventually decided to crucify Him (18:31, 32).

This week’s lesson focuses on the variety of miracles Jesus worked in John 5 and 6. Jesus healed a man, fed a multitude, calmed a storm, and walked on water. We will discover how Jesus’ act of healing in chapter 5, which drew attention to His abilities, provoked an unexpected reaction from the crowds. Following the miracle, John recorded a long discourse that reveals the theological implications of such an act.

Chapter 6 follows a similar pattern. Verses 1–21 record two miraculous acts, and the rest of the chapter is comprised of another dialogue and a discourse on who Jesus actually is. John used this pattern to underscore the twin concepts of revelation and conflict. John’s previous narratives were more focused on individual contacts and conversations, but here the stage grew larger. The more fully Jesus revealed the Father, the stronger the opposition became. When confronted with a new understanding of God, what’s our reaction?

This section begins with the account of Jesus healing a paralytic. After the fact, we learn that this miracle occurred on the Sabbath (5:9). While the Synoptic Gospels describe various Sabbath healings (e.g., Matt. 12:9–14; Mark 3:1–6; Luke 14:1–6), John’s account has significant differences. For example, we don’t immediately discover that this transpired on the Sabbath.

#### inScribe

Read over John 5:31–47. Do so three times slowly. Ask the Lord to speak to you about any phrase He might bring to mind. Ask Him what He is trying to apply to your life in this passage. Then take a moment and speak with God about what you are learning. Create an outline or a mind map of the verses.

` `