---
title: By the Pool
date: 27/10/2024
---

#### inGest

After visiting Galilee, Jesus journeyed back to the capital city of Jerusalem (John 5:1). As He arrived, He came to the pool of Bethesda, where masses of sick people crowded around waiting for the water to move of the water. People commonly believed that an angel supernaturally agitated the water, and the first person who entered the pool would be miraculously healed. Take a moment to imagine the scene, the crowds of suffering people waiting to be healed. In walks Jesus.

Jesus was acquainted with each person’s situation and was drawn to one case of supreme suffering, a man ravaged by thirty-eight years of disease. This man yearned to be healed, but he had no friend to help him reach the pool in time (v. 7).

Approaching him, Jesus asked a question and then issued a command (vv. 6, 8). Despite the man’s inability, he believed Jesus’ word, was healed, and followed His instruction (v. 9). This healing confronts our ideas about prerequisites for healing. Jesus asked no questions about the man’s belief or worthiness; He healed him solely out of compassion.

As previously stated, we learn that this miracle occurred on the Sabbath after it was performed. Though the initial focus of the narrative was Jesus’ interest in the man, it soon shifted. Carrying his mat through the city drew attention from the crowds, for Jewish custom never permitted anybody to carry any burden on the Sabbath. Callous to the healing that had just occurred, the religious leaders fixated on Jesus’ scandalous disregard for Sabbath tradition. They stressed the supposed transgression (vv. 10, 12); He stressed the healing (v. 15). Their animosity escalated until they determined to kill Jesus based on the accusations that He disregarded the Sabbath and committed blasphemy (5:18; 10:33; 19:7).

Jesus answered them with a systematic defense of His ministry, showing how everything He does relies on His intimate relationship with the Father (v. 17). Jesus took responsibility for two activities that fall under God’s authority: giving life and exercising judgment (vv. 21–30). Only God can give life (1 Sam. 2:6; 2 Kings 5:7; Ezek. 37:3–12), and only God is judge of all the earth (Gen. 18:25; Ps. 82:8; 96:13). Christ’s life-giving power was displayed in the immediate healing of the man paralyzed for thirty-eight years, and His divine authority was shown when He made Himself the judge of their spiritual condition (John 5:37–47).

Jesus fortified His arguments by presenting witnesses in His favor. According to Jewish law, a testimony needed at least two witnesses for their arguments to be considered legitimate (John 5:31; Deut. 19:15). Jesus therefore called four witnesses: John the Baptist, His own works, the Father, and Scripture (John 5:32–39). Though Jesus began the discourse as a defendant in an unofficial trial, He spoke more like a prosecutor by the end of it. Christ pointed out their desire to receive glory from one another at the cost of rejecting God’s Emissary. In rejecting the clear testimony of Scripture, they faced a new accuser: Moses (v. 45). Jesus was highlighting their cognitive dissonance, for they claimed to trust Moses but did not “believe his writings,” which were often about Christ (vv. 46, 47). He was also highlighting the irony of their situation, for Moses had long been considered the Israelite nation’s advocate (Exod. 17:1–7; 32:30) and now his writings stood accusing them (John 5:45).

#### Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 5, 6. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why was this miracle and discourse the turning point that made the people in Jerusalem want to kill Jesus?`

`How would you react if you were hopelessly sick, practically unable to move, and a complete stranger told you to stand up and walk?`