---
title: Conflict in Galilee
date: 28/10/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Another conflict unfolded soon after Jesus returned to Galilee. Jesus had begun healing the sick in a more public manner, and the crowds following Him multiplied (John 6:2). The Passover was approaching, which ties into the themes in chapter 6. The wilderness location and miraculous provision of food echo the original Passover in Exodus. Jesus was beginning a new exodus, offering liberation and freedom through His abundant grace.

When the crowd became hungry, Jesus asked Philip the same question the Israelites asked in the desert: “Where will we get food for everyone?” (John 6:5–7; Num. 11:13). Jesus already had a plan. Like the manna that sustained the ancient camp of Israel, Jesus miraculously provided an abundance of food for over five thousand people (John 6:8–14).

Seeing this spectacular sign stirred the people to declare Jesus “the Prophet” that Moses promised (John 6:14; Deut. 18:15). The ambitious crowd prepared to make Him king by force (John 6:14, 15). Ancient Jewish literature frequently described Moses as a prophet and king. The people saw Jesus as a new Moses, but unfortunately, the crowd failed to comprehend the kind of kingdom Jesus came to establish. By attempting to force Jesus to be the type of king they wanted, they lost the kingdom He offered. To evade their ambitious and self-serving plans, Jesus escaped to the mountains alone and slipped back down to the lake under the cover of night (vv. 15, 19).

John’s description of Jesus walking on water that night both continues the story and introduces the next scene. Seeing Jesus through the darkness, the disciples were terrified (6:19). He reassured them with words that can be translated as “I AM” (v. 20; c.f. 4:26), which was another way of introducing Himself as the same God who spoke to Moses from the burning bush (Exod. 3). The miraculous feeding of the wilderness multitude, the unexpected crossing of the sea, and the reference to the divine name are all reminiscent of ancient Israel’s exodus from Egypt.

Reaching Capernaum the next morning, people flocked to Jesus once again (John 6:24). He knew their real motives and longed to lead them to believe (vv. 26–40). The people demanded a sign, quoting Exodus 16:15 in support. Jesus first clarifies that Moses did not provide the manna in the desert; His Father provided the bread from heaven. Jesus then claimed to be the bread of life (vv. 35–40). The Jews commonly understood the metaphor of the manna to refer to both reading the Torah and the return of manna when the Messiah would come, but they would not accept Jesus’ claim to be the bread from heaven (vv. 41, 42).

Jesus’ claim caused quite the stir (vv. 41, 42). Truth incites conflict when hearts resist. The crowd responded to Jesus as though He was speaking literally, “How can this Man give us His flesh to eat?” (v. 52). Jesus ultimately clarified His meaning, stating that His words need to be eaten (vv. 61–63). He had previously said He would give His life for the world (v. 51). Even though His words give life, they were rejected because of the people’s unbelief. Because of this discourse, many of Jesus’ disciples decided not to follow Him anymore (v. 66). Only a small group remained, and one was a betrayer (vv. 66–71).

#### Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Describe a time when circumstances seemed insurmountable but God already had a plan. How can remembering help you in current and future struggles?`