---
title: Responding to Jesus
date: 30/10/2024
---

#### inVite

Examining these two chapters together, we can see the different responses to Jesus’ works. The first miracle triggered murderous animosity (John 5:18). Instead of seeing and rejoicing in the unexpected healing of the suffering man, all the leaders felt was anger toward Christ. This seems unfathomable, yet it’s the end result of loving darkness rather than light (3:16–21).

The resistance that began among the audience in Jerusalem (chap. 5) spread to the multitude in Galilee (chap. 6). Rather than the miracle of ample food drawing the crowd to surrender to Jesus’ abundant grace, they demanded more (6:26–31). How fickle and perplexing human nature is! The questions the crowd asked Jesus demonstrate a fundamental lack of understanding. The people wondered what they could do to work God’s works. Jesus simply responded that God’s work is for us to believe (v. 29). Eternal life is not an object to be gained by our efforts. Eternal life is a gift that flows out of the one supreme Gift: Jesus Christ (6:27–29; 3:16).

The irrational reaction of the Galilean multitude mirrors the attitude of the Israelites during the Exodus. God did great things for them, yet they soon grumbled against Him (Exod. 14:31; 15:24; 16:2–12; John 6:41). Like Moses, Jesus was sent by God. As the Israelites distrusted Moses, so the multitude distrusted Jesus. Those who didn’t believe Moses perished in the wilderness, and those who did believe received the promised land. Similarly, those who believe in Jesus will receive eternal life.

The Gospel of John frequently uses the term “the Jews” (71 times), usually negatively (e.g., 5:16, 18; 7:1, 11, 13; 18:36–38). However, in the Gospel as a whole, “the Jews” are not entirely adversarial. A significant number of Jews believed and defended Christ (8:30, 31; 12:11; 10:19–21). According to Jesus, salvation comes from the Jews, and they have the clearest view of proper worship (4:22). Jesus is Jewish (4:9). Specifically, He is called the “King of the Jews” (18:33, 39; 19:3, 19–21).

What should we make of the different descriptions of the Jews? It’s possible that John was referring to the Jews who lived in Judea, especially those around Jerusalem (1:19)? Another idea is that John was referring to the Jewish authorities who then dominated society. These concepts are both helpful, but they don’t adequately explain all seventy-one uses of the term. A better interpretation is to see “the Jews” as used in John as a representation of another character in John’s narrative. Like others, their actions were ambiguous and sometimes contradictory. At times, we are unsure if they truly believed. Further, we are unclear as to how much they understood. Predominately, we see irony at work. As with Nicodemus, who should have understood much more than he did, so the Jews should have understood who Jesus is. They had Scripture, the prophets, and every opportunity to recognize what God was doing in Christ.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 5, 6 again and look for where Jesus is.

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Of all the different reactions to Jesus in these stories, which corresponds best with how you react to Him? What can you learn from this?`

`How similar are we to “the Jews” in John’s Gospel?`

`Prayer Response:`