---
title: inQuire
date: 01/11/2024
---

#### inQuire

Share insights from your study this week. Include any questions you might have for the group, as well as discoveries, observations, and new understandings. Below are some questions for discussion with the rest of your study group.

`Since the healing in John 5 wasn’t urgent (v. 6), why do you think Jesus healed on the Sabbath instead of waiting a day?`

`Think about the emotions of the sick man as he saw others going into the water. How would you describe his feelings? How can you relate to him?`

`Why was Jesus not silent toward the accusations of His detractors in John 5? Why do you think He defended Himself so vigorously and systematically?`

`When you’re interrupted in the middle of an enjoyable experience, how do you react? How does this compare to how Jesus responded to the pressure of the crowd? (John 6:5.)`

`What admirable traits do you see in Andrew throughout the Gospel of John? (E.g., 1:40, 41; 6:8, 9; 12:20–23.)`

`Why do you think the crowd demanded another sign after being miraculously fed? (John 6:11, 12, 30, 31.)`

`How would you explain the meaning of Jesus’ statement that He gives His flesh for the life of the world? (John 6:51)`

`Both the Samaritan woman and the crowd expressed a desire for life-giving water or bread. Why did their final responses differ so greatly?`

`Take a moment to enter a prayerful state of mind. Meditate on John 6:59–66. Think carefully about what it means to be offended by God’s Word. Share your insights.`

`Why did so many disciples stop following Jesus? (John 6:66.)`