### The Book of Psalms: Where God and His People Meet

The Book of Psalms is a collection of prayers and hymns. These prayers and hymns are also poems. They are the most beautiful poems ever written. The poems in the Book of Psalms talk about different human feelings and topics: praise, joy, sorrow, and suffering. These poems or songs were read or sung in public or private. Who read or sang them? Kings, poets, and priests or spiritual leaders sang them. So did sinners who confessed their sins and gave their lives back to God. People the same as you and me sang or read these songs and poems, too. God’s people have used the Book of Psalms for their prayers and songs since Old Testament times.

The Book of Psalms talks **to** us. But more than that, the Book of Psalms also talks for us and with us. God pours out a blessing on His people from the Book of Psalms. The Book of Psalms gives us hope. Its poems give us new life in the Lord. The Book of Psalms also is a guidebook that teaches us to understand ourselves and God’s royal beauty. The Book of Psalms helps us give God our sad and painful feelings. The Book of Psalms leads us to God and helps us want to give our lives fully to Him. We should not be surprised to learn that many people feel that the Book of Psalms talks about their personal experiences and feelings. That’s why people make the poems in the Book of Psalms their own prayers.

Martin Luther says these words about the Book of Psalms: “Where can we find words as beautiful as in the Book of Psalms? These poems of praise and thanks communicate our joy better than any other words. In these poems, you can look into the hearts of the poets as if you were looking at a lovely garden or were looking at heaven. . . . Or where can we find better words to communicate that we are sad and suffering? In the Book of Psalms, you see into the hearts of the poets the same as if you looked at death, face-to-face, or into hell itself. . . . So, it’s easy to understand why the Book of Psalms is the favorite book of all God’s people. People everywhere can find a poem or song in the Book of Psalms to fit their needs.When we find the poem we need, we feel that the poem was written just for us. No other book can match the Book of Psalms. Psalms explains our feelings better than any other book of the Bible.” —Martin Luther, _Martin Luther: Selections From His Writings_, editor, John Dillenberger (New York: Anchor Books, 1962), pages 39, 40, adapted.

Do you want to have a life-changing experience when you read the Book of Psalms? If yes, then you also must sing and pray the songs and poems in the Book of Psalms. The Israelites sang and prayed these songs and poems in Bible times. Ever since that time, God’s people have used the poems and songs in the Book of Psalms to praise God, pray, confess their sins, cry to the Lord, and give Him thanks. We should do these things because the Lord is all-powerful. We should praise Him because He is fair in everything He does. We should thank Him for His mercy and love.

So, we know we need to sing and pray the songs and poems in the Book of Psalms. But do we need to **study** these songs and poems, too? In short, yes. First, we must understand that the poems and songs in the Book of Psalms were written at different times and places. Second, these poems and songs teach different messages and lessons about God. When we study the Book of Psalms, we want to help the reader understand the poets and their lives better. Then we can start to understand their songs and poems better, too.

So, we know that the poems and songs in the Book of Psalms are the prayers of God’s people. Did you also know that Jesus prayed many of these poems and songs, too, when He was on earth? The poems and songs in the Book of Psalms are also **about** Jesus. In the Book of Psalms, God shows us Jesus and tells us about Him. When we study the Book of Psalms, we want to learn about the things that God did in the past, does today, and will do for us in the future.

The Book of Psalms is a collection of 150 poems. These poems help us understand our spiritual journey in life. Our journey starts with faith. Our faith grows as we understand that God is our King. The whole earth and everything that happens is under His full control. Our all-powerful God rewards our good behavior. He punishes evil. We must remember this Bible truth when times are hard, and we suffer for our faith. As we continue our study in the Book of Psalms this quarter, we will see what happens when sin and evil people attack the faith of God’s people. When that happens, we may ask, with the poets in the Book of Psalms, “Is God in control? How can God’s people sing God’s praises in a land where evil people are trying to hurt us?”

Our hope is that the Book of Psalms will help answer these difficult questions. We also hope our study will help us grow strong during our life journey. May we meet with God daily, heart to heart, in the Book of Psalms until that day when we see Jesus face-to-face.

_Dragoslava Santrac has a PhD in Old Testament studies. Dr Santrac is the managing editor for the Encyclopedia of Seventh-day Adventists at the General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists world headquarters. She wrote the volume on Psalms 76-150 for the Seventh-day Adventist International Bible Commentary._