---
title:  The Great Controversy
date:   01/10/2016
---

#### Read for This Week’s Study:

Job 1:1–5, Job 1:6–12, Zech. 3:2, Matt. 4:1, Ezek. 28:12–16, Rom. 3:26, Heb. 2:14.

> <p>Memory Text:</p> 
> “And the Lord said unto Satan, The Lord rebuke thee, O Satan; even the Lord that hath chosen Jerusalem re- buke thee: is not this a brand plucked out of the fire?” (Zechariah 3:2).

Scattered across the pages of both the [Old Testament] and the [New Testament] lie many references and allusions to an unre- lenting war between God and Satan, between good and evil on both cosmic and personal levels. Comparing these passages, we inlay their individual insights to form a mosaic window of truth through which we can perceive the total message of Scripture with greater clar- ity than otherwise.”—The Handbook of Seventh-day Adventist Theology (Hagerstown, Md.: Review and Herald® Publishing Association, 2000), p. 969.

The great controversy theme forms a template that can help us better understand “the total message” of the Bible, especially the plan of sal- vation. Though the theme is much more apparent in the New Testament, it is found in the Old Testament too. And perhaps nowhere in the Old Testament are we given a clearer glimpse of Satan and this conflict, and how they can powerfully affect life here, than in the book of Job.

This week we’ll look at the broader reality behind this immediate reality that’s the main focus of Job. And though our lives and stories are different from Job’s, we have one thing in common: like Job, we are all involved in this controversy.

###### *Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, October 8.