---
title:  Cosmic Conflict
date:   03/10/2016
---

The book of Job begins on earth, in a place of peace and tranquil- lity. However, by the sixth text of the first chapter, the venue changes. It instantly shifts to an entirely different aspect of reality, one that is not seen by humans unless through divine revelation. And interest- ingly enough, this other aspect of reality, heaven, doesn’t seem to be as tranquil and peaceful as things are on earth, at least in what is first presented here.

```Read Job 1:6–12. Though we will study these texts in more detail later in this quarter, what is happening here? How does it contrast to what we have just seen happening with Job on earth?```

There’s so much to explore in these few texts. They reveal aspects of our universe that all our space telescopes don’t detect and that human science doesn’t even begin to fathom. What’s fascinating, though, is that they also reveal a cosmic conflict. It’s not a calm, peaceful, and tranquil conversation that we access in this passage. God talks about Job with (to use a human idea) a sense of pride, like a father proud of his son. Satan, in contrast, mocks what God says about Job. “So Satan answered the Lord and said, ‘Does Job fear God for nothing?’ ” (Job 1:9, NKJV). One could almost hear a sneering sarcasm, a mocking tone in what Satan says to God.

Though the text doesn’t explicitly say that this confrontation was in heaven, that’s surely where it was. And thus you have this created being, an angel, standing before God in heaven and challenging Him to His face, before other “sons of God.” It’s hard to imagine some- one talking to a worldly leader like that, but here we have a being doing so to God Himself. How could this happen?

The answer is found in a theme that appears in various places and in different ways all through the Bible. It’s called the great controversy, and it provides a powerful template to help us to understand not just the book of Job but the entire Bible and its explanation of the whole sad story of sin and suffering on earth. And even more important, it helps us better understand just what Jesus accomplished for us on the cross in order to solve the problem of sin and suffering on the earth.