---
title: 'Jesus Is The Reason For Our Testimony'
date: 06/09/2020
---

As Christians, we all have a personal story to tell. This story is about how Jesus changed our lives and what He has done for us.

**How did we behave before we knew Jesus? What becomes ours when we accept Him?**

`A. Our life before we knew Jesus (Ephesians 2:1–3).`

`B. Our life after we knew Jesus (Ephesians 2:4–10).`

Wow! Look at how much we changed! Before we knew Jesus, “[our] spiritual lives were dead because of [our] sins” (Ephesians 2:1, ICB). We “used to live as sinners” and “followed the ways of this world [the people on this earth and their ways of life]” (Ephesians 2:2, NIrV). “We did all the things our bodies and minds wanted” (Ephesians 2:3, ERV). “God was angry with us like he was with everyone else” (Ephesians 2:3, NIrV). Before we knew Jesus, we were lost.

Maybe we thought we were happy. But deep inside we were sad and felt that we needed something more to give our lives meaning. Then we came to Jesus. His love changed everything. Now in Jesus we are truly alive. That is because “God gave us new life with Christ” (Ephesians 2:5, ICB). God did this because He “loves us deeply. He is full of mercy” (Ephesians 2:4, NIrV). “He did this so that for all future time he could show the very great [endless; having no limit] riches [plenty] of his grace [loving-favor]. He shows that grace by being kind to us in Christ Jesus” (Ephesians 2:7, ICB). In Jesus, life has new meaning. As John says, “Life was in him, and that life was the light for all people” (John 1:4, NIrV).

`Read Ephesians 2:10. What does this verse tell us about how important good works are to the Christian’s faith? At the same time, we believe that people are saved “because of their faith. They are not saved by obeying the law” (Romans 3:28, NIrV). If we are not saved by works, then why do we need them? What part do good works have in our lives?`
