---
title: 'Our Personal Stories About Jesus'
date: 07/09/2020
---

John and James were the sons of Zebedee. James and John also were known as the “ ‘Sons of Thunder’ ” (Mark 3:17, NIrV). Jesus is the One who gave James and John this name. John had a bad temper. He got angry fast. The Bible tells us about the time when John got mad. Jesus and His followers traveled across Samaria. They tried to find a place to stay for the night in a village. But the Samaritans did not like the Jews. So, the Samaritans did not offer Jesus and His followers a place to stay anywhere in their village.

James and John think they knew how to solve the problem of the Samaritans’ bad behavior. James and John say, “ ‘Lord, do You want us to speak [pray] so fire will come down from heaven and burn them up as Elijah did?’ ” (Luke 9:54, NLV). Jesus’ answer surprises James and John. Jesus scolds them. They all leave the village quietly. Jesus’ way is the way of love, not force.

By being around Jesus, John’s temper changed. John became a loving, kind, and gentle spirit. In John’s first letter, the Greek word for “love” is written more than 40 times.

`Read 1 John 1:1–4; 1 John 3:1; 1 John 4:7–11; and 1 John 5:1–5. What do these verses tell you about John’s personal story about Jesus? What changes happen in John’s life because of his friendship with Jesus?`

There is a very important law of life. Ellen G. White talks about it: “Our using force goes against God’s government. God wants people to serve Him only because they love Him. Love cannot be commanded. Love cannot be won by force or power. Only love can cause love.”—The Desire of Ages, page 22, adapted.

When we give our lives fully to Jesus, His love will fill us. Other people will see this love. The strongest proof of Christianity is a changed life. Does this mean we will not make any mistakes or fail to show the love and mercy of Jesus? No. A changed life means that Jesus’ love will be seen in our lives. It will be a blessing to the people around us.

`How well do you show the love of Jesus to other people? What does your answer tell you about yourself?`
