---
title: 'Telling The Story About Jesus'
date: 08/09/2020
---

Who are the first people that Jesus sends to share the Good News? They are not His long-time followers. The first people Jesus sends had been filled with demons. Before Jesus came into their lives, they scared everyone in the countryside and filled their hearts with fear.

The demons made one of the men strong enough to break the chains that held him. Then this man screamed in an awful voice. He cut his own body with sharp stones. The cries of these men show the deeper pain in their spirits (Matthew 8:28, 29; Mark 5:1–5).

But then these two men meet Jesus. Their lives are changed forever. Jesus causes the demons to leave their bodies. The demons enter a herd of pigs. Then the pigs jump off a cliff into the sea (Matthew 8:32–34; Mark 5:13, 14).

`Read Matthew 8:28–34. What happens to these men? What do the townspeople find when they come to see what happened?`

The men who had been filled with demons are changed by Jesus’ power. The townspeople find the men sitting at Jesus’ feet. The two men listen to every word Jesus says. Just so you know, Matthew’s book says there were two men that Jesus saved from demons. But Mark’s story tells us about only one of them. The important thing to understand is that Jesus made both men new. He healed their bodies, minds, hearts, and spirits.

`Read Mark 5:18–20. As you can see from the verses, the changed man wants to stay with Jesus. But what does Jesus send him to do?`

“These men heard Jesus’ teaching for only a short time. They never heard Jesus preach one sermon. Jesus’ followers had been with Jesus daily. So, they knew how to teach the people. But not these men. At the same time, their changed lives were living proof that Jesus was the Savior. These men told what they knew. They told what they had seen, heard, and felt of Jesus’ power. This is what everyone can do whose heart has been changed by God’s loving-favor.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 340, adapted. The personal stories that these men told about Jesus helped to get the people ready in Decapolis to accept Jesus’ teachings.
