---
title:  HAVING A FIRM TRUST AND A SURE FAITH IN GOD TO SAVE US
date:   09/09/2020
---

`Read 1 John 5:11–13; Hebrews 10:19–22; and 1 Cor-inthians 15:1, 2. What hope do these verses give us about our everlasting life? Why can we say with firm trust and sure faith that God has saved us?`

If we do not believe that Jesus has saved us, we cannot share this faith with someone else. We cannot share what we do not have ourselves. There are wonderful, kind Christians who always live in fear. They wonder if they will ever be good enough for God to save them. As a wise, old preacher said, “When I look at myself, I see no way of being saved. When I look at Jesus, I see no way I can be lost.” The Lord’s words were true when He said them, and they are true now: “ ‘All you who live anywhere on earth, turn to me and be saved. I am God. There is no other God’ ” (Isaiah 45:22, NIrV).

Our Lord wants to save us. What is more, He freely gives us the gift of everlasting life. He wants this gift to fill our hearts with joy. He wants us to be made clean from sin and guilt. He wants us to be made right with Him. Paul says, “We have been made right with God because of our faith. So we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ” (Romans 5:1, ERV). Paul also says that we can trust that “anyone who is in Christ Jesus is not judged guilty” (Romans 8:1, ERV). John tells us that “whoever has the Son has life. But the person who does not have the Son of God does not have life” (1 John 5:12, ICB).

By faith we accept Jesus. Then He lives in our hearts by the power of His Holy Spirit. Because of this, we have the gift of everlasting life today! Does that mean we can never lose the gift of God’s loving-favor and saving mercy? Of course not! (Read 2 Peter 2:18–22; Hebrews 3:6; and Revelation 3:5).

We always have the free choice to turn away from God. But why would we ever want to? We now know His love. We understand more and more why He died for us. So, we will look each day for the chance to share with people the loving-favor that we have in Jesus.

`Do you believe that you are saved in Jesus? If yes, why are you sure? Where in the Bible do you find reasons for your trust? If you are not sure, why are you not sure? How can you find the firm trust that you need?`
