---
title:  NEWS WORTH SHARING
date:   10/09/2020
---

**“I have been put up on the cross to die with Christ [Jesus]. I no longer live. Christ lives in me. The life I now live in this body, I live by putting my trust in the Son of God. He was the One Who loved me and gave Himself for me” (Galatians 2:20, NLV).**

Sure, there are things we must give up when we accept Jesus. He asks us to give up these things. Jesus makes plain what we must do to follow Him: “ ‘If anyone wants to follow me, he must say “no” to the things he wants. Every day he must be willing even to die on a cross, and he must follow me’ ” (Luke 9:23, ICB). Death on a cross is a painful death. When we give our lives to Jesus, our old lives are put to death on the cross (read Romans 6:6). That is painful. It is painful at times to give up the things we want and lifelong habits. But the rewards are worth any pain we must suffer.

Stories about what Jesus has done for us can change lives. These stories are not about what we give up for Jesus. They are about what Jesus does for us.

The history of Christianity is filled with stories about people who gave up many things for Jesus. Were these people trying to earn everlasting life by their acts? No. Nothing we do can earn us favor with God. These men and women understood what Christ did for them. So, they were willing to give up everything for Jesus and follow Him.

**Our personal stories about Jesus are always about what Jesus does for us. Read John 1:12; John 10:10; John 14:27; and 1 Corinthians 1:30. List some of the gifts of God’s loving-favor that you find in the verses above.**

As you read the verses above, think about what Jesus has done for you. Maybe you have been a loyal Christian your whole life. Or maybe you came to God after a powerful experience changed you. Think about how good Jesus has been to you and the peace and happiness He gives you. Think about the times He gave you the strength to meet hardships and difficult times in life.

`What has Jesus asked you to give up for Him? What have you learned from your experiences? How can what you learned be a blessing to other people?`
