---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   11/09/2020
---

Read Mark 5:25–34. “The crowd close to Jesus does not feel any special healing power when they touch Him. But the woman who reaches out her hand to touch Jesus believes that she will be made whole. So, she feels Jesus’ special healing power. The same thing is true in spiritual things. What if we talk about religion in a careless way? Or what if we pray with no real hunger in our spirits? Or what if we have no living faith? Then our talk, prayers, and faith will have no power. What if we believe that Jesus has the power to save? That is not enough to bring healing to our souls. Saving faith is not simply knowing the truth. . . . It is not enough to believe about Jesus. We must believe in Him. We must accept Jesus as our personal Savior. That is the only faith that will heal us. By faith we accept Jesus’ holy life as our own. . . .

“God chooses us to show Jesus to the people on this earth. Sure, we must believe what the Bible tells us about God’s loving-favor. But our personal stories about our own experiences are even more powerful proof. We are witnesses for God. As His witnesses, we show that God’s power works in us. There is no other person the same as you or me on the earth. Each one of us is special and different from everyone else. So, we each have an experience that is different from everyone else’s too. God wants us to praise Him. The praise we give God will not be the same as anyone else’s. When we give God praise and are filled with Jesus, then our praise will have power that will work to save people.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 347, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. What makes a personal story about Jesus exciting and interesting? Read Paul’s personal story that he told to Agrippa (Acts 26:1–23). What reason does Paul give for his personal story?`

`2. Why do you think our personal stories about Jesus are so powerful? How do you answer the question: “What do I do if I have not had the same experience as you? Why should I follow Jesus?”`

`3. What should you not say when you share your personal story with someone who does not believe in Jesus?`

`4. Think about being sure that we are saved. Why is this such an important part of our Christian experience? How can we be sure that we are saved?`
