---
title:  Understanding God’s Message More Fully
date:  16/09/2020
---

Revelation’s last-day message presents Jesus in the fullness of His saving grace for all humanity (Rev. 14:6). It is an earnest appeal to “fear” or give reverence to God in all we do—to respect His commands and obey His law in the light of God’s judgment (Rev. 14:7). To “fear God” has to do with how we think. It is an appeal to live to please God and to place Him first in all of our thoughts. It is an attitude of obedience that leads us to live godly lives (Prov. 3:7, Acts 9:31, 1 Pet. 2:17). This message also invites us to “give glory” to God. Giving glory to God relates to what we do in every aspect of our lives.

`Read Ecclesiastes 12:13, 14 and 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20. How do these verses help us understand what it means to both fear God and give glory to Him?`

In an age of moral irresponsibility, when millions of people feel that they are accountable to no one but themselves, this judgment-hour message reminds us that we are responsible for our actions. There is a relationship between an attitude of reverence for God, obedience to God, and the judgment. Obedience is the fruit of a saving relationship with Jesus. Only His righteousness is good enough to pass the judgment and, in His righteousness, we are secure. Through His righteousness we live to glorify His name in all that we do.

`Read Revelation 14:7, Revelation 4:11, Genesis 2:1–3, and Exodus 20:8–11. What is the basis of all true worship of God, and how does the Sabbath reflect this understanding?`

Satan has attacked the Sabbath because he knows that it is the very heart of worship. It exalts Christ as the Creator and appeals to all men and women everywhere to “worship Him who made heaven and earth” (Rev. 14:7, NKJV). It speaks with relevance in an age of evolution. It calls us back to worshiping the Jesus who created us and who gives us a sense of our true worth in Him.

`Think about how important the Sabbath is as a reminder of God as our Creator and, hence, who alone is worthy of our worship. After all, what other teaching is so important that God commands, commands one-seventh of our lives every week in order to help us remember Him as our Creator?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"In this letter to the Corinthians Paul endeavored to show them Christ’s power to keep them from evil. He knew that if they would comply with the conditions laid down, they would be strong in the strength of the Mighty One. As a means of helping them to break away from the thralldom of sin and to perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord, Paul urged upon them the claims of Him to whom they had dedicated their lives at the time of their conversion. “Ye are Christ’s,” he declared. “Ye are not your own.... Ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God’s.” _Acts of the Apostles, p. 306"_

"Our bodies are Christ’s purchased possession, and we are not at liberty to do with them as we please. All who understand the laws of health should realize their obligation to obey these laws which God has established in their being. Obedience to the laws of health is to be made a matter of personal duty. We ourselves must suffer the results of violated law. We must individually answer to God for our habits and practices. Therefore the question with us is not, “What is the world’s practice?” but, “How shall I as an individual treat the habitation that God has given me?” _The Ministry of Healing, p. 310"_

"God desires us to reach the standard of perfection made possible for us by the gift of Christ. He calls upon us to make our choice on the right side, to connect with heavenly agencies, to adopt principles that will restore in us the divine image. In His written word and in the great book of nature He has revealed the principles of life. It is our work to obtain a knowledge of these principles, and by obedience to co-operate with Him in restoring health to the body as well as to the soul.

Men need to learn that the blessings of obedience, in their fullness, can be theirs only as they receive the grace of Christ. It is His grace that gives man power to obey the laws of God. It is this that enables him to break the bondage of evil habit. This is the only power that can make him and keep him steadfast in the right path. _The Ministry of Healing, pp. 114-115"_

God gave to men the memorial of His creative power, that they might discern Him in the works of His hand. The Sabbath bids us behold in His created works the glory of the Creator. And it was because He desired us to do this that Jesus bound up His precious lessons with the beauty of natural things. On the holy rest day, above all other days, we should study the messages that God has written for us in nature. We should study the Saviour’s parables where He spoke them, in the fields and groves, under the open sky, among the grass and flowers. As we come close to the heart of nature, Christ makes His presence real to us, and speaks to our hearts of His peace and love. _Christ Object Lessons p. 25_