---
title:  From Reading to Understanding
date:  28/12/2019
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Luke 24:25-27; 2 Pet. 3:11-13; Jonah 3:3-10; Num. 14:34; Dan. 9:23; 10:11, 12

> <p>Memory text</p>
> “So Philip ran to him, and heard him reading the prophet Isaiah, and said, ‘Do you understand what you are reading?’ ” (Acts 8:30, NKJV).

Our church was born from within the pages of the book of Daniel, our study for this quarter. As we begin, we should keep the following points in mind as a template to help guide us through our study.

First, we should always remember that Christ is the center of Daniel, as He is of the entire Bible.

Second, Daniel is organized in a way that shows literary beauty and helps us to understand its major focus.

Third, we need to understand the difference between classical and apocalyptic prophecies. This will help us distinguish between the prophecies of Daniel and those of others such as Isaiah, Amos, and Jeremiah.

Fourth, as we study the time prophecies of Daniel, we should understand that the prophetic outlines of Daniel span long periods of time and are measured according to the year-day principle.

Fifth, we shall emphasize that the book of Daniel not only conveys prophetic information but is profoundly relevant to our personal life today.

_Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, January 4._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Lord is acquainted with all our circumstances. When that Ethiopian traveler was reading the Scriptures, as he rode in his chariot, angels of God were looking upon the scene. One of the disciples was sent to meet the chariot, and when he came to the place, he saw the man studying the Scriptures. Philip said to him, “Understandest thou what thou readest?” He answered, “How can I, except some man should guide me?” Then Philip opened to him the Scriptures. And when he had heard and believed, the Ethiopian asked, “What doth hinder me to be baptized?” (Acts 8:30, 31, 36).

This experience shows the Lord’s care for His people. It was the Spirit of God that led this man’s mind to the Scriptures. But he could not interpret their meaning. Then the Lord sent one of His servants to enlighten his mind, and to make him understand.—_The Upward Look_, p. 130.

The precious Word of God is a solid foundation upon which to build. When men come to you with their suppositions, tell them that the Great Teacher has left you His Word, which is of incalculable value, that He has sent a Comforter in His own name, even the Holy Ghost. “He shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you” (John 14:26).

Here is presented before us a rich banquet, of which all who believe in Christ as a personal Saviour may eat. He is the Tree of life to all who continue to feed on Him.

All who study these precious utterances may have strong consolation. If they will feed upon the banquet of God’s Word, they will gain an experience of the highest value. They will see that in comparison with the word of God, the word of man is as chaff to the wheat.—_This Day With God,_ p. 292.

In order to break down the barriers of prejudice and impenitence, the love of Christ must have a part in every discourse. Make men to know how much Jesus loves them, and what evidences He has given them of His love. What love can equal that which God has manifested for man, by the death of Christ on the cross? When the heart is filled with the love of Jesus, this can be presented to the people, and it will affect hearts.

The sacrifice of Christ as an atonement for sin is the great truth around which all other truths cluster. In order to be rightly understood and appreciated, every truth in the Word of God, from Genesis to Revelation, must be studied in the light that streams from the cross of Calvary. I present before you the great, grand monument of mercy and regeneration, salvation and redemption—the Son of God uplifted on the cross. This is to be the foundation of every discourse given.—_Evangelism,_ pp. 189, 190.