### The Book of Joshua

The story of Joshua and his generation is about both an ending and a beginning. After forty years of difficult wandering in the wilderness, Israel had finally come home. There was a genuine cause for celebration! However, the conquest of Canaan was also the beginning of a new adventure, a journey into the unknown, in which they had to embrace the role of being God’s chosen light bearers to the world. They were finally ready to receive what God had promised them so many years before.

The first question that strikes us as we read about Israel facing this new venture is whether they can be trusted to accomplish their mission. The conquest of Canaan was a daunting task, especially considering their background as slaves in Egypt. From a human standpoint, they were no match for the giants, walled cities, and well-equipped armies of Canaan. They had to rely on God to fight those battles. They went forward in faith and saw the impossible happen as their strongest enemies fell one by one.

Joshua is a book filled with hope. Israel’s future seemed bright. There was no major apostasy and no turning toward idols. When they failed, they were quick to repent, learn from their mistakes, and do better. It’s a relief to read, especially after the series of rebellions in the books of Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. The conquest of Canaan began with many powerful stories of faith and courage. However, at the book’s end, the Israelites lacked resolve and any sense of urgency to complete the work God had assigned to them. The results of their complacency didn’t fully develop until the book of Judges, when later generations strayed far from God.

The Israelites conquered Canaan under the able leadership of Joshua, who helped them remain loyal to God. His most important qualifications were courage, faith, and obedience. Joshua embraced the lessons God taught him. Repeatedly, he submitted to God’s will regardless of what he saw before him. Joshua obeyed without question when God asked him to lead the armies of Israel around the nearly impregnable walls of Jericho for seven days, simply blowing rams’ horns and carrying the ark of the covenant. When he faced defeat at Ai, he fell to his knees, crying out to God for answers. When the Gibeonites deceived him, he was willing to acknowledge his mistakes and learn from them. When God told him to cease the conquest and retire, he was willing to step down and allow Israel to continue the work without him. At every juncture, Joshua was a willing learner. He was far from faultless, but he was consecrated, marked with a willingness to trust God, learn from his mistakes, and serve God with an undivided heart.

There is not enough space in this quarterly to cover every story or answer every question in the book of Joshua, but we’ll explore most of the narratives and major themes. Each lesson is a call to be faithful to God and the work He gives us. The timeless appeal from the book of Joshua calls to us today: “Choose for yourselves this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the River, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the LORD” (Josh. 24:15). Ultimately, the book of Joshua is an invitation. It urges us to have the courage and faith to choose God, even when the odds are stacked against us, because doing so is the only way to conquer our giants and finish the work He has called us to do.

_Sukeshinie (Suki) Goonatilleke is an author, speaker, freelance writer, and trainer. She lives with her husband and two kids in Melbourne, Australia._