### Introduction

Have you ever wanted to see God in action? That’s the desire of many believers who believe in the God of the Bible. What would it take to do that? When does God step in and take action in our lives? This quarter we will take a life-changing trip through the pages of an ancient book written to share the account of a people who experienced God in action.

I can tell you that seeing God act is not everything you might think it to be. The book of Exodus is full of accounts of people who got really close to God. What happened when they did? Moses wanted to know His name. But can you imagine meeting God and then asking what His name is? It almost sounds comical. Pharaoh said he had never even heard of God, questioning whether He even existed. What might cause someone to come face to face with His power and yet deny His very existence? The answer to that forms a major part of the story. Others reacted in fear when brought into the presence of God, such as the Israelites at Mount Sinai. They were so afraid that they didn’t even want to hear His voice. While we might imagine ourselves happily running toward God when we see Him, in the story of Exodus, people were more likely to collapse in fear. What might cause that, you ask? Well, come along on the adventure to find out.

The book of Exodus tells the story of a God whose most earnest desire is to be next-door neighbors with His people. How do you do that when your people are afraid of you? Would it even work? Would they want to be neighbors? That is the story of Exodus. The purpose of the Exodus event was to bring God’s people into His presence. They hadn’t known their God or seen Him work in so long that most of them had long since given up on the promises made to their ancestors—to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.

After many years and multiple generations of bondage in Egypt, many had given up all hope of deliverance. The long delay is just one of the many challenges that confronted the Israelites in this amazing story. Why would God wait so long? If they were His people, why did they become slaves to the most powerful man in the world? Why was this foreign king attempting to destroy them? All these hardships created a feeling of abandonment and separation from God. In this setting, it’s easier to see why the people lost their faith, why a life of slavery seemed the easiest and best option.

Despite all the challenges and hesitations, God would hardly take no for an answer. God earnestly desired to give His people something better, even when they stubbornly clung to their surroundings in Egypt. God desires to give us freedom and the opportunity to choose whom we will serve, but in this story, God acted with the unabashed, singular goal of leading His people to freedom, no matter what they thought—whether they liked it or not. In doing so, He ran the risk of people accusing Him of taking away human freedom. However, what we will see is that He was actually giving them the freedom to choose. He was setting the stage so that they could decide whether they would serve Him.

In the end, the nation entered a covenant relationship with the Lord. This narrative of ancient Israel recounts a unique time in earth’s history that is also a lesson to all who read it. Their story now comes home to your life. As you study this wonderful story, I pray that your life will be touched and transformed in an even greater way than were the lives of the ancient Hebrews. May you too be set free from sin’s slavery and begin your journey to the Promised Land.

_Thomas Toews is a professor of religion at Union Adventist University and has his PhD in Historical Theology from Andrews University._