---
title:  No Condemnation
date:   25/11/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit” (Rom. 8:1).

**Introduction**: Rom. 8:1

**The Life-Changing Text**

I held the phone to my ear as I choked out my story in ragged sobs to my friend Jon. He listened quietly as I poured out my heart. My past as a rockand- roll musician was so shameful that I secretly wondered why I was telling someone. After all, I had grown up in the church, and I should have known better than to allow myself to sink so deeply into a lifestyle that is notoriously ugly.

I dumped it all in his lap, and when I was finished I simply said, “There it is, Jon. There’s my miserable existence in a nutshell. How am I ever going to get past this?” His answer surprised me. He didn’t condemn, he didn’t lay guilt on me, he just quietly responded, “Mike, do you have a Bible there with you?”

“Yeah,” I mumbled.

Jon continued, “I don’t believe anyone has ever shared the gospel with you, and you need to see something.”

I went and retrieved the dusty book. “Mike, turn to Romans 8:1 and read that for me.”

I read in a hoarse half-whisper, “There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit” (NKJV).

“Mike,” Jon said, “Jesus didn’t come down here to condemn you. He came to save you from yourself.”

Words can’t properly describe the emotional weight that was lifted from my shoulders that evening. But then, between his phone call and the time I took my wife and baby girl to church the next morning, those old feelings of lost-ness had taken hold once again. My child started making noise, so I took her to a small room outside the sanctuary and opened the door so I could hear what the pastor was saying. “Good morning,” he said. “Please turn in your Bibles to Romans 8:1.” The pastor was preaching on the same text that my friend had shared with me the night before!

In a simple yet profound way, the Creator reached down and met me that morning. I later discovered that the pastor had been scheduled to share a completely different message that day, but he was strongly convicted the night before, at just about the time of my conversation with Jon, to preach on this specific verse of Scripture.

The messages of Romans are especially sweet to me because of the power that they breathed into my life of failure. I am eternally grateful for the way that God speaks to us through His Word and friends like Jon.

_Michael Temple, Grand Forks, North Dakota, USA_