---
title:  The Demand for Justice
date:   26/11/2017
---

**Logos**: Rom. 6:23; 8:1

Romans 8:1 states, “There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus” (NKJV), which indicates that in the past, the men and women of Christ lived in a state of condemnation, together with their worldly peers. This condemnation existed because of sin, which entered the world when Adam fell and tainted all future humanity (Rom. 5:18). In New Testament Greek, the word condemnation means that an individual has been accused of, examined for, and convicted of a crime. It means that the offender has been found guilty and is awaiting punishment so that justice can be fulfilled. For Paul, the criminal is humankind, which has been found guilty of sin and must receive the full penalty of the law—death (Rom. 6:23). Because “all have sinned,” all are condemned, so all have to die (Rom. 3:23).

In Romans 8, however, something has happened to change the situation. The condemnation is removed from “those who are in Christ Jesus,” which can only mean one thing: somehow, the demand of the law for justice has been met, so that followers of Christ no longer live under the shadow of the death penalty.

**Law of Death** (Rom. 6:14; 7:10)

The law features prominently in the book of Romans as Paul strives to demonstrate that it has been rendered powerless in the lives of Christians (Rom. 6:14). The purpose of the law is to condemn sin in humanity and demand appropriate punishment, and for this reason the law functions as an instrument of death (Rom. 7:10). Paul argues that the law actually increases the sins people commit and intensifies the judgment against them, because “I would not have known what sin was had it not been for the law” (Rom. 7:7, NIV). Psychologically, this is a sound argument, because as fallen human beings, we are most strongly tempted to do the things we know are wrong. A child is not nearly as tempted to touch the hot stove before the mother says, “Don’t touch the stove!”

When the law tells us what actions are sin, our human nature draws us to those actions; and if, knowing the law, we choose to sin, our condemnation intensifies because we have sinned deliberately. Even in the modern legal system, deliberate crimes are punished more harshly than those committed inadvertently. For a God who wants desperately to save humanity, a law that can only offer judgment is not enough; so He engineered a plan which would nullify the power of the law to condemn. Paul explains this plan in Romans 8:2–4.

**A Better Law** (Rom. 8:2–4)

The law of God is not flawed, but it is incomplete because it cannot provide salvation for those it condemns (Rom. 8:3). Nor can the law save the people who do obey it, because even if they do not sin by their actions, they are still corrupted by the condition of sin that has afflicted mankind since the Fall (Rom. 3:20). In order to redeem His people, God had to provide a new system of judgment, one that would both condemn sin and offer a way of escape from the penalty (Rom. 8:3), so He sent Jesus to earth to become a new law for humanity.

The Savior, by His flawless life, condemned sin in everyone He encountered and, by His death, pardoned that same sin (verse 3). Jesus kept the law perfectly, meeting its requirements for obedience, and died on behalf of condemned humanity, fulfilling the law’s demand for justice (verse 4). If we accept that Jesus has fulfilled the law on our behalf, then the law is no longer able to condemn us, because justice has been fulfilled. “We are not under law but under grace” (Rom. 6:15, NKJV). Once a criminal has been adequately punished, he or she is free to go. The law is just; it does not condemn a person for the same sin again and again. There is a difference between human law and the law Jesus established by His life on earth. While human law may condemn a person for a crime, requiring punishment, Jesus’ law incorporates a more expansive capacity for mercy, pardoning all sin—the actions and condition—for all time, as long as we are willing to accept His sacrifice on our behalf (1 John 1:7).

**Life Under Grace** (Rom. 5:2; 6:14; 8:15)

Although we are freed from condemnation when we accept Jesus’ sacrifice, we must maintain our saving connection with Him in order to remain in that state of freedom. Paul reminds us that those who are not condemned are those who “walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit” (Rom. 8:4, ESV). He urges believers not to allow the sinful human nature to dictate their lives but to live as befits the redeemed spiritual nature. Returning to the sinful nature means certain death, because “those who are in the flesh cannot please God” (verse 8, NKJV).

Only by living as one saved from death, trusting that Jesus has fulfilled the law on our behalf, shunning the sinful nature, and choosing the spiritual nature can a believer hope to please God. A great reward awaits those of us who live “according to the Spirit.” Our state of condemnation and sin will be replaced by a state of grace and righteousness (Rom. 5:2, 17). We will be freed from the law’s condemnation and from sin, saved from God’s wrath, and reconciled to Him (Rom. 5:9, 11; 6:14, 18). God will adopt us as His own children and give us the promise of eternal life (Rom. 8:15; 5:21). In Christ all condemnation, including the self-condemnation Paul describes in Romans 7, is finally eradicated from the lives of the children of God.

**React**

`Should Christians worry about sinning when we live in a state of grace?`

`How can we address sin in others without condemning them?`

_Jenny Coleman, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_