---
title:  “The Right You” Through Him
date:   27/11/2017
---

**Testimony**: Rom. 8:1, 2

In the book The Test of Discipleship, Ellen White notes, “It was possible for Adam, before the fall, to form a righteous character by obedience to God’s law. But he failed to do this, and because of his sin our natures are fallen and we cannot make ourselves righteous. Since we are sinful, unholy, we cannot perfectly obey the holy law. We have no righteousness of our own with which to meet the claims of the law of God. But Christ has made a way of escape for us. He lived on earth amid trials and temptations such as we have to meet. He lived a sinless life. He died for us, and now He offers to take our sins and give us His righteousness. If you give yourself to Him, and accept Him as your Saviour, then, sinful as your life may have been, for His sake you are accounted righteous. Christ’s character stands in place of your character, and you are accepted before God just as if you had not sinned.”<sup>1</sup>

What a wonderful and simple truth it is that we can have God’s righteousness even when our lives have been covered in sin! All we need to do is give ourselves to Jesus Christ and accept Him as our Savior. “The right you” can happen through the character of Jesus Christ.

You may be wondering what it means to be in Christ, but the Bible gives a beautiful answer: “Therefore there is now no condemnation [no guilty verdict, no punishment] for those who are in Christ Jesus [who believe in Him as personal Lord and Savior]. For the law of the Spirit of life [which is] in Christ Jesus [the law of our new being] has set you free from the law of sin and of death” (Rom. 8:1, 2, AMP).

This is how we have righteousness: by accepting Jesus Christ as our Savior. And when we accept Him, we receive complete freedom from the oppression of sin that has ruled over us in the past.

**React**

`How does knowing the struggles that Paul the apostle went through, even after accepting Christ as his Savior, help you face the struggles that will come your way as a Christian?`

`How does Paul’s story in the Bible illustrate righteousness by faith?`

<sup>1. Ellen White, The Test of Discipleship, p. 62.<sup>

_Jeff Blevins, Bel Air, Maryland, USA_