---
title:  A Part of God’s Family
date:   28/11/2017
---

**Evidence**: Rom. 8:15–17

Adoption: the act or process of adopting a child; the act or process of giving official acceptance or approval to something.<sup>*</sup> (The Greek word for adoption is huiothesia, which is defined as being adopted as a son into the divine family.)

Adoption by a well-deserving family with the right intentions must be a wonderful experience for an orphaned child. Knowing that someone loves them, wants to protect and teach them, and desires to make them a part of a family is a true blessing.

Adoption, locally or internationally, is not an easy process and can cost a lot of money, but there is one adoption process that is universal and totally free. There is no gimmick or loophole or red tape involved. You just have to say “Yes!” to the One adopting you. There can be obstacles, however, because of the one who does not want us to be a part of God’s family.

When God created the world and made Adam and Eve, everything was theirs. They were a part of God’s family. However, when Satan tricked them into sinning, they, and we in a sense, became orphans. Satan wants to destroy us and relentlessly pursues us to take away our inheritance. However, God had a plan and sent His Son Jesus to die on the cross so that we could be adopted back into His family (1 John 3:1).

Paul writes to the Romans to tell them that there is no reason to fear, for they have been set free from sin. They, and we, have a Father we can cry out to, who is ready to take care of us. We are no longer orphans pursued by Satan. We are adopted into a full-fledged family, with God Himself as our Father. The Holy Spirit is the Witness to this, telling us that we are not only children but also heirs.

**React**

`Who in the Bible do you think could relate to the experience of being adopted, both in a physical and spiritual sense? How did God use them? How can you relate to them?`

`Looking back at the main text, what connection can we make between bondage and fear? What does this mean for us now and in the troubling times ahead?`

<sup>* Merriam-Webster, s.v. “adoption,” accessed July 18, 2016, http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/adoption.</sup>

_Jonathan Matthew Lanius, Port Deposit, Maryland, USA_