---
title:  Take a Hike!
date:   29/11/2017
---

**How-to**: Rom. 8:1

The apostle Paul’s answer to the condemnation in Romans 7 is to turn away from self and its all-too-glaring inadequacies and focus on Jesus Christ, whose life stands in our place in the judgment. However, it is our nature to become easily distracted. Paul knew if that happened, we would be right back where we started, under condemnation, so he introduced the concept of “walking” in the Spirit.

Walking is an excellent symbol of a continuously growing relationship with the Savior. Here are some measures to take to help make your walk successful:

Have a destination in mind. I love to walk, and wherever I live, I quickly find whatever hiking venues are nearby. I’ll often take a look at my trail on a map or computer. This gives me an idea of destination, distance, terrain, difficulty, and even scenery. If I don’t do this (and at times, I haven’t), I run the risk of going in a wrong direction, making the trip one of exhaustion and disappointment instead of discovery and joy.

Pace yourself. I have, at times, tried to rush through a trail—only to lose energy far from my destination. Similarly, many try to rush toward Christian maturity by a great show of works, until their relationship with Jesus actually suffers. What is needed, says Paul, is to “walk” in the Spirit, maintaining a measured, settled, and linear faith.

Stay on course. Whenever I walk, I find dozens of side trails. There may or may not be anything wrong with these trails, but pursuing them robs me of the energy I need to reach my destination. Similarly, our spiritual walk must not be a stuttering, meandering shuffle where we stop every few feet to stare at the enticements of the world or our own inadequacies.

Exercise regularly. I try to walk every day to keep in shape. In the same way, we should have something spiritual happening daily to bring us closer to our destination—a strong relationship with Jesus.

**React**

`If you could create a “map” to your desired relationship with Jesus, what would it look like? What steps could you take to reach the destination you’ve laid out?`

`Make a list of some of the distractions that take your eyes off your spiritual destination. What things can you do to stay focused?`

_Kenneth L. Coleman, Elkton, Maryland, USA_