---
title:  What the Law Could Not Do
date:   30/11/2017
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 6:14; 7:15, 18; 8:3, 4; Gal. 5:24

The tightrope is so high. Maybe once you woke up and thought, I want to try walking the tightrope of the law, but you tried it and fell on your face. When you looked in the mirror, your perfectly bruised complexion stared back at you, reminding you that you weren’t good enough. You decided to try again, thinking that perhaps, over time, you could do better; but it never seemed that you could make God happy.

The law is not the savior; it is the standard. Because it is not the savior, we are doomed apart from the real Savior—Jesus. The law marks out the requirements for life, but it has no ability to save us from the grip of the controlling relationship with sin. The problem is that we cannot leave sin, because it has an iron grip upon us, whispers into our proverbial ears, and drives our actions. The problem is that everything sin whispers into our ears to do is against the law of God. We enjoy the aspects of sin that feed our insatiable lust, which give us a temporary fix for a deeper need without making us deal with the heart issue.

The law cannot break the grip of sin (Rom. 8:3); it can only show us our sin. This is why the Old Testament system of sacrifices was unable to free the sinner from sin unless it connected the sinner to the coming Messiah— the Lamb of God. The various sacrifices could never deliver the sinner from sin; they could only show the consequences of sin. They all pointed to One who could truly free us from sin. He could actually stand up against sin and break its iron grip upon humanity. It is not through our own power that we can let go of sin; it is through Jesus weakening the grip of sin upon us that we can pull free and walk to Him.

When we try to walk the tightrope of life, it is actually Jesus who catches us every time we fall so that we can make it to the other side without the marks of failure. We must arrive on the other side with and through Jesus; because otherwise we will be judged by how many times we fell.

**React**

`What does Romans 7:15, 18 tell us about trying to please God apart from Jesus?`

`What is our role, and what is the Spirit’s role, as portrayed in these verses?`

_Celesta Burt, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_