---
title:  Cops, Parents, and Walking
date:   01/12/2017
---

**Exploration**: Romans 6:1–11; 8

**Conclude**

Two of the Christian’s most embarrassing dilemmas are the grip which human nature has on the soul and the perplexing way in which the presence of God’s law seems to stir up the soul to even greater nastiness. As the “Logos” section puts it, “A child is not nearly as tempted to touch the hot stove before the mother says, ‘Don’t touch the stove!’ ” How do we maintain a saving connection with Jesus so this rebellion will happen less and less? Part of the answer is to remember that Christ’s righteousness does truly cover our sins and that “walking in the Spirit” will gradually create Christ’s nature within us.

**Consider**

- Drawing a detailed sketch, from head to toe and by memory, of the very first police officer you knew. Include facial details—bland, smiling, grouchy, or whatever. Around the outer edges of the drawing, write emotions you felt while in this person’s presence. Which of these emotions do you feel—or have you ever felt—toward God? Why?
- Printing out Romans 8 and carrying it with you on an hour-long walk. Read through the chapter several times and think about the average weekday “walk” you take—to school or work, to lunch, to shop, to transport kids, etc. Consider how you need the Holy Spirit’s help at each destination along that walk (Rom. 8:1).
- Recalling your very first spoken term for your father. Was it da-da or papa or possibly abba (Rom. 8:15) or something else? What emotions do you feel when you hear or say that term?
- Starting a social media discussion on the topic of “I Remember My Baptism.” Start things off by describing your own baptismal celebration— who was present, when, where, and why—and then invite others to share their own memories. Include photos if you have them. Talk about the ways baptism was a “death” for you (Rom. 6:1–11).

- Connect-

1. Psalm 119 (the Bible’s longest chapter—an epic “infomercial” on the benefits of God’s law); Hebrews 8:10; 10:16, 17.
2. Ellen White, Steps to Christ, chap. 9, “The Work and the Life.”

_Maylan Schurch, Renton, Washington, USA_