---
title:  Good Examples
date:   08/02/2026
---

Paul lived during very evil times. We do, too. The question for us is: With so much evil around us, how should we act or behave?

`Read Philippians 3:17–19. Paul talks about good and bad examples. What are these good and bad examples? How can we know the good from the bad?`

Paul feels love for the people he disagrees with. Paul cries for them! Do you see that Paul doesn’t say that these people are his personal enemies? Paul says that they are really “enemies of the cross of Christ” (Philippians 3:18, ERV). Paul understood that they were sinners in need of a Savior (read Ephesians 2:11–14). We all are. So, we all need Jesus. Our need for Jesus makes us all the same.

Paul tells the Philippians to think about the good examples, and not the bad ones. Paul wants his readers to watch carefully people who live much the same as he does. Then the Philippians should copy the way these people live. Paul says something much the same in his letter to the Romans. Paul warns the Romans, “My Christian friends, I want to tell you something important. Be very careful about people who teach wrong things. They teach things that are different from God’s true message that you learned. Those people cause you to quarrel with each other. They cause people to turn away from [reject] God. You must stay away from them” (Romans 16:17, EASY). Paul says that these false teachers in Rome can’t be trusted: “Men like [the same as] that are not working for our Lord Jesus Christ. They are chained to [under the control of] their own desires [sins]. With soft [nice] words they say things people want to hear. People are fooled by them” (Romans 16:18, NLV).

`Of course, Jesus is the only perfect example. At the same time, there are Christians who are good examples for us to follow. Now think about your own life. What type of example do you show to other people?`