---
title:  Stay Strong in the Lord
date:   09/02/2026
---

`What does Paul say about being a member of God’s family in heaven? Read Philippians 3:20, 21 for the answer.`

Paul talks about the enemies of the cross. He says they “will be lost for ever. Their belly is the god they worship. They boast [brag] about things they should be ashamed of. They think only about things of [that belong to] this world [life]” (Philippians 3:19, WE). Christians think about the things in heaven. That’s because Christians are members of God’s family in heaven. Jesus Christ is our King. Paul says that Jesus will “change these weak bodies that we have now on this earth” (Philippians 3:21, EASY). Until that happens, we may suffer from disease, pain, and death.

**Look up the following verses. What do they teach us about the new bodies that Jesus will give us?**

`Job 19:25–27`

`Luke 24:39`

`1 Corinthians 15:42–44`

`1 Corinthians 15:50–54`

`Colossians 3:4`

In the end, Jesus will destroy death. Death is our last enemy (1 Corinthians 15:26). This promise gives us hope. Jesus will end death and give us new bodies (Philippians 3:21).

So, for Paul, our being members of God’s family includes the promise of everlasting life and the resurrection. The resurrection is the time when Jesus will wake up His loyal followers from the dead at the Second Coming. Then we will have a whole new life. We can’t even start to picture in our minds this brand-new life!

`Why is the promise of everlasting life so important to everything that we believe as Christians? What can this life possibly offer us that’s worth more?`