---
title:  Rejoice in the Lord Always!
date:   10/02/2026
---

`Read Philippians 4:4–7. Where does the peace come from that Paul talks about in these verses? How do we get it?`

Again, Paul talks about the need for church members to work together for peace (Philippians 4:1–3). Then Paul switches to a new topic: rejoicing in the Lord (Philippians 4:4–7).

How often do you worry about problems that get solved soon after they happen? Things often seem worse than they really are. So, Jesus tells us not to worry about them (read Matthew 6:25–34 and Matthew 10:19). Peter tells us that we can trust Jesus with everything that upsets and worries us. Jesus cares for us (1 Peter 5:7). As problems grow worse worldwide, we should be filled with hope. These problems are a sign that Jesus’ coming is very near (compare Matthew 24:33; Luke 21:28; James 5:8).

What is the answer to worry and fear? The answer is the prayer of faith (Philippians 4:6, 7). For sure, we must believe in Jesus and trust that He hears our prayers. Also, we must act as if our prayers are already answered before we see them answered. We must pray with a spirit of thanksgiving. We also must ask God with all our hearts to answer our prayers. At times, when we pray, we will ask for answers (read the following examples: Luke 1:13; Philippians 1:19; 1 Timothy 5:5; James 5:16). We must ask for the things that God promises (1 John 5:14). Then we can trust that God will answer our prayers. Then we can rest and have peace. We know that God accepts these types of prayers.

`How do the following verses help us to understand God’s peace? Psalm 29:11; Isaiah 9:6; Luke 2:14; John 14:27; and 1 Corinthians 14:33.`

This life can’t give us God’s peace. God’s peace comes from the hope we have in God’s gift of everlasting life (Romans 5:1; Romans 6:23). This peace fills us with hope. We can’t fully understand it (Philippians 4:7). But we do know that God’s peace changes every part of our lives!

`What does it mean to have God’s peace?`