---
title:  Think About These Things
date:   11/02/2026
---

God gives us peace that is beyond anything we can understand. This peace also “will stand guard over all your thoughts and feelings” (Philippians 4:7, ERV). We need to protect our spiritual life. The word for “stand guard” in Philippians 4:7 comes from the Greek word “phroureō.” In the Greek language, this word is used to mean a group of soldiers who guard a city against enemies (2 Corinthians 11:32; compare Acts 9:24).

Another very important part of having peace in our hearts includes obeying God’s law. “Those [people] who love your teachings will find true [real] peace. Nothing will defeat them” (Psalm 119:165, ICB).

`Read Philippians 4:8, 9. What advice does Paul give his readers in these verses?`

In Philippians 4:8, 9 (WE), Paul gives us a list of six important things to fill our minds with. Paul encourages us to follow his example. Paul also talks about each of the things on his list. He encourages us to think about things that are:

1. **True:** Jesus often starts His teachings with “I say to you the truth.” The whole New Testament tells us that the truth is very important to God. (Read Acts 26:25; Romans 1:18; 1 Corinthians 13:6; 2 Corinthians 4:2; Ephesians 4:15; 1 Timothy 3:15; James 1:18; 1 Peter 1:22; and 1 John 2:21.)
2. **Honest:** Because we love Jesus, and He is the truth, we should always be honest. This word is also written as “respected” in other verses. (Compare with 1 Timothy 3:8, 11; Titus 2:2.)
3. **Right:** God is holy because He always does what is right. (Compare how this word is used in Philippians 1:7.)
4. **Clean:** Our thoughts and behavior should be clean. We accept with faith God’s holy life. His life makes us clean (read 1 John 3:3).
5. **Lovely:** This word talks about the beauty we see in nature. God made many beautiful things on earth.
6. **Good:** A good person is kind, caring, and loving.

Also, always think about the things we should thank God for.