---
title:  Paul’s Advice for a Happy Life
date:   12/02/2026
---

`Read Philippians 4:10–13, 19. What advice does Paul give us for a happy life?`

When hard times happen, we start to think about the things that really matter. Hunger, sickness, suffering, and loss can teach us to thank God for His blessings. When we feel sad or in need, our faith in God keeps us strong (Philippians 4:12).

Also, when we have enough or more than we need, we should always remember that we could lose everything in an instant (read Proverbs 23:5). Both Job and Paul tell us that we didn’t bring anything into this life with us when we were born. When we die, we will take nothing with us to the grave (Job 1:21; 1 Timothy 6:7).

The Bible gives us wonderful promises for a happy life. Let’s look at a few of them:

- Psalm 23:1: “The Lord takes care of me, like [the same as] a shepherd with his sheep. I have everything that I need” (EASY).
- Matthew 6:32: “Your Father in heaven knows you need all these things” (NLV).
- 1 Peter 5:7: “If you have any kind [type] of trouble in your mind, give it to God. God has promised to take care of you” (EASY).
- Philippians 4:19: “My Lord God in heaven has plenty of good and valuable things. Because you belong to Christ Jesus, God will give to you everything that you need” (EASY).

The Bible also gives us this most wonderful promise of all: “I can do all things because Christ gives me the strength” (Philippians 4:13, NLV). When we ask God for His help and strength, we also must ask Him to do what He thinks is best for us. We can ask God to keep the following promises and to give us the following things:

- To save our family and friends (1 Timothy 2:3, 4).
- Courage to share our faith (Revelation 22:17).
- Forgiveness (1 John 1:9).
- Strength to obey God’s law (Hebrews 13:20, 21).
- Love for people who hate and hurt us (Matthew 5:44).
- Wisdom to solve our problems (James 1:5).
- Wisdom to understand the Bible (John 8:32).