---
title:  Job
date:  09/06/2026
---

When we think of setbacks in the Bible, Job is perhaps the person who first comes to mind. Not only did he lose all his wealth (Job 1:14–17), but he also lost his children (Job 1:18, 19) and his health (Job 2:7). His wife then tried to convince him to curse God and die (Job 2:9).

After some time, three friends came to sit with Job. They were so shocked at his appearance that they sat with him, speechless, for seven days (Job 2:13). Eventually, when they spoke, they tried to offer human reasons for why such misfortune had come to Job, but in doing so, they unintentionally increased his suffering. Three friends blamed him, saying he must have some hidden sin in his life to repent of (Job 8, 11, 15), even saying, “ ‘Surely such are the dwellings of the wicked, and this is the place of him who does not know God’ ” (Job 18:21, NKJV).

`How did Job respond? Read Job 19:23–27 and Job 23:8–12.`

No matter the tragic events that surrounded him, and the fact that he didn’t understand them, Job remained faithful. He held fast. He didn’t blame God or curse Him. Instead, when tempted to blame God, he declared: “ ‘Naked I came from my mother’s womb, and naked shall I return there. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord’ ” (Job 1:21, NKJV).

We, too, live in the middle of this same battle. Satan afflicts us with pain, suffering, loss, and hardship as part of his plan to distort our picture of a loving God. In such times, we can respond in one of two ways: blame and reject God, or cling to Him with all our might. Although the battle rages around us, we must remember that, in light of eternity, our momentary troubles are but temporary trials (2 Cor. 4:16–18). There is so much more to the picture than what we see here and now, and one of the great challenges for a believer is to trust God even in the darkest times. God has, in many ways, revealed to us the reality of His love. We must cling to this crucial truth—that of God’s love—even when we might not sense it at the moment.

`If you are in the middle of a difficult time right now, run to God. Take your Bible and a notebook, and go outside to be with God in nature. Copy down Romans 5:3–5, and reflect on the different messages in this passage, believing that God’s love and care for you is the surest and most stable factor in your life.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When depression settles upon the soul, it is no evidence that God has changed. He is “the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever.” Hebrews 13:8. You are sure of the favor of God when you are sensible of the beams of the Sun of Righteousness; but if the clouds sweep over your soul, you must not feel that you are forsaken. Your faith must pierce the gloom. Your eye must be single, and your whole body will be full of light. The riches of the grace of Christ must be kept before the mind. Treasure up the lessons that His love provides. Let your faith be like Job’s, that you may declare, “Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him.” . . .\
The most trying experiences in the Christian’s life may be the most blessed. The special providences of the dark hours may encourage the soul in future attacks of Satan, and equip the servant of God to stand in fiery trials. The trial of your faith is more precious than gold. You must have that abiding confidence in God that is not disturbed by the temptations and arguments of the deceiver. Take the Lord at His word. You must study the promises, and appropriate them as you have need. “Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.” Romans 10:17. . . .\
It is faith that familiarizes the soul with the existence and presence of God; and when we live with an eye single to His glory, we discern more and more the beauty of His character. Our souls become strong in spiritual power, for we are breathing the atmosphere of heaven, and, realizing that God is at our right hand, we shall not be moved. . . . We should live as in the presence of the Infinite One. . . .\
Divine wisdom will order the steps of those who put their trust in the Lord. Divine love will encircle them, and they will realize the presence of the Comforter, the Holy Spirit.—Our High Calling, p. 324.

Into the experience of all there come times of keen disappointment and utter discouragement—days when sorrow is the portion, and it is hard to believe that God is still the kind benefactor of His earth-born children; days when troubles harass the soul, till death seems prefera­ble to life. It is then that many lose their hold on God and are brought into the slavery of doubt, the bondage of unbelief. Could we at such times discern with spiritual insight the meaning of God’s providences, we should see angels seeking to save us from ourselves, striving to plant our feet upon a foundation more firm than the everlasting hills; and new faith, new life, would spring into being.\
The faithful Job, in the day of his affliction and darkness, declared: . . .\
“My soul chooseth . . . death rather than my life.\
I loathe it;\
I would not live alway:\
Let me alone;\
For my days are vanity.”\
But though weary of life, Job was not allowed to die. To him were pointed out the possibilities of the future, and there was given him the message of hope:\
“Thou shalt be steadfast, and shalt not fear:\
Because thou shalt forget thy misery,\
And remember it as waters that pass away. . . .”\
From the depths of discouragement and despondency Job rose to the heights of implicit trust in the mercy and the saving power of God. Triumphantly he declared: “Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 162, 163.
