---
title:  Further Thought
date:  12/06/2026
---

It’s when we face life’s challenges that we most need to cling to God. The topics we’ve explored throughout this quarter all contribute to keeping or refreshing a strong walk with God. When you face a setback such as a health challenge, financial difficulties, a marriage breakdown, the death of someone close to you, or another burden that robs you of joy, consider the following questions and reflect on the lessons studied thus far.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How has whatever setback you are facing, or have faced, impacted your picture of God? How can you more clearly see God’s true character?`

`When did you last pray for God’s voice in your life to be stronger than the enemy’s? Remember that the thief (Satan) comes to steal, kill, and destroy, but God gives abundant life (John 10:10).`

`Is your heart humble? Do you trust that God is still sovereign and leading in your life, despite hardship? If not, how can you learn this humble trust in the goodness and love of God for you personally?`

`Are you keeping yourself grounded in God’s Word daily? Ask God to reignite your first love for Him as you pass through challenging times.`

`When did you last turn to God as your Comforter and Counselor in prayer, trusting that He has kept His promise never to leave you nor forsake you (Heb. 13:5)?`

`If your faith is weak, pray, “ ‘Lord, I believe; help my unbelief!’ ” (Mark 9:24, NKJV). Surround yourself with people who can encourage rather than discourage you.`

`The world doesn’t always care for the weak, ignorant, wounded, and broken. God’s message of “When you are weak, my power is  strong” (2 Cor. 12:9, WE) is a message that can radically transform people’s lives. Think of someone you might encourage with this message today.`

**Summary**: We still live in a sinful world full of pain and suffering, and each of us faces hardships at some point in our lives, things that can cause us to question God’s love. As we look back on how various indi­viduals in the Bible responded to life’s setbacks, we can take courage that our response in such times can strengthen our walk with God, who does not change (Mal. 3:6) and whose love remains constant.