---
title:  From Being Slaves to Becoming God’s Children
date:   12/08/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Galatians 3:26–4:20; Romans 6:1–11; Hebrews 2:14–18; Hebrews 4:14, 15; Romans 9:4, 5.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “So you [are not] a slave any longer. You are God’s child. Because you are his child, God gives you the rights of those who are his children” (Galatians 4:7, NIrV).

Paul tells the Galatians they are not slaves. Instead, they are the sons and daughters of God. So, they should live their lives with this truth in mind. Martin Luther needed to hear this truth when he was a young man. Luther was a monk. A monk is a religious man who lives and works with other religious men. But Luther’s life as a monk brought him no peace. Luther believed he was a guilty sinner. He tried by his own works to receive pardon and peace. He fasted, or went without food. And he whipped himself to try to get rid of his sin. He would have done anything to be able to stand with a pure heart before God. He followed all the rules. But he could find no peace inside himself. He said, “Suppose there were a monk who could earn heaven by his works. Then that monk would have been me. I should have earned it through all I did.”—Adapted. But nothing he did seemed to work.

But then Martin Luther read Galatians. And he began to understand the truth about salvation in Christ. Only then did Luther start to have spiritual freedom. He found hope for his soul. Luther’s hope changed the world. And the world has never been the same since.