---
title:  What it means to be in Christ
date:   13/08/2017
---

_Galatians 3:25, 26_

`Read Galatians 3:25. Keep this verse in mind as you read Galatians 3:26. How does Galatians 3:26 help us understand what our relationship to the law is now that we have been saved by Jesus?`

We learned that in New Testament times a master’s son was under the control of a teacher.This control ended when the son became an adult. In the same way, Paul says that those who come to Christ in faith are no longer “children.” Instead, their relationship with the law is changed. Why? Because they are now adult “sons” of God.

In Galatians 3:26, the word translated as “sons” (NKJV) comes from the Greek word hyios. Other versions of the Bible translate this word as “children.” But in Greek, hyios means “a son.” There are at least two reasons Paul uses the Greek word son here instead of the Greek word for children. First, Paul was thinking about the family wealth that would be passed onto the firstborn son. Also, Paul had in mind the wording “sons of God.” This name was used for Israel in the Old Testament (Hosea 11:1). But now non-Jews also could enjoy the special relationship with God that only Israel had enjoyed. And not just males. Paul clearly includes females in this relationship as well (Galatians 3:28).

`Read Galatians 3:27, 28; Romans 6:1–11; and 1 Peter 3:21.What do these verses say makes baptism so special?`

In Romans 6, Paul says baptism shows that we want to be joined to Jesus in His death and return to life. But in Galatians 3:27, Paul says baptism means being “clothed with Christ” (NCV). The Old Testament talks about being clothed with holiness (read Isaiah 61:10). In the same way, Paul sees baptism as the time when Christ clothes believers with holiness. Paul does not say “holiness.” But holiness is what Paul means when he talks about what God gives believers.

What is true for Christ is also true for us. Christ is the “Seed” of Abraham (Galatians 3:16, NKJV). And we are “[God’s] children” (Romans 8:17). As such, we are heirs to all the promises God made to Abraham and his family.

`What is true for Christ is also true for us. How should this wonderful truth affect every part of our lives?`