---
title:  Being slaves to old rules
date:   14/08/2017
---

_Galatians 4:1–3_

`Paul just has shown that in our relationship with God we are the same as sons and heirs. Now Paul takes this idea further in Galatians 4:1–3. He gives the example of the owner of a large property. The owner dies. He leaves everything to his oldest son. But his son is still a boy. So, the property is put under the control of managers until his son is a man.`

Paul’s comparison reminds us of the example of the strict teacher in Galatians 3:24. But in Galatians 4:1–3, the power of the managers is much greater. They are responsible for bringing up the master’s son. And they are also in charge of all the business of the property until the son is ready to take control of it himself.

`Read Galatians 4:1–3. What is Paul saying in these verses that should help us understand how important the law is in our lives, now that we are in Christ?`

People disagree over what Paul means by the wording “basic spiritual powers” (Galatians 4:3, NIrV). “Powers” comes from the Greek word stoicheia. It means “elements.” Elements can mean weather conditions. But, at one time, elements meant earth, wind, fire, and water. So, some people thought Paul was talking about these basic elements of the universe (2 Peter 3:10, 12). Others thought Paul meant the demons that control this evil age (Colossians 2:15). And some people thought Paul meant the basic rules of a religious life (Hebrews 5:12). Paul’s word picture of believers as children (Galatians 4:1–3) shows he means the basic rules, or “ABCs,” of religious life. The Old Testament laws were such rules. But they were only shadows of what was to come. They were never meant to take the place of Christ.

So, Christians were not to live by these rules. To do so was to go backward. And going backward was just what the Galatians were doing when they wanted to return to those rules after Christ came. Imagine that the son, in Galatians 4:1–3, received everything, but then wanted to be a child again!

`A childlike faith can be positive (Matthew 18:3). But is it the same thing as being fully grown in your spiritual walk? Suppose you grow a lot in your spiritual walk. Does that mean your faith will be more childlike? How childlike and innocent and trusting is your faith?`