---
title:  The special blessings of being adopted
date:   16/08/2017
---

_Galatians 4:5–7_

In Galatians 4:5, Paul says that Christ “came to set free those who were under the authority of the law” (NIrV). The wording “to set free” means “to buy back.” It pointed to the price paid to buy the freedom of a hostage or slave. This wording shows something negative about salvation. It shows we are slaves who need to be set free.

But freed from what? The New Testament lists four main things: (1) the devil and his lies (Hebrews 2:14, 15); (2) death (1 Corinthians 15:56, 57); (3) the power of sin that enslaves us (Romans 6:22); and (4) the guilt of breaking the law (Romans 3:19–24; Galatians 3:13; and Galatians 4:5).

`Read Galatians 4:5–7; Ephesians 1:5; Romans 8:15, 16, 23; and Romans 9:4, 5. What special blessing comes to us as a result of our being saved in Christ?`

We often describe what Christ has done for us as salvation. But this word is not nearly as rich as Paul’s use of the word “adoption” (huiothesia). Paul is the only New Testament writer to use this word. Adoption was a well-known custom in the Greco-Roman world. Several Roman emperors during Paul’s lifetime had no legal heirs. So, they adopted the person who would rule after them. Adoption resulted in certain benefits: “(1) The adopted son becomes the true son . . . of the one who adopted him. . . . (2) The one who adopted the son agrees to raise the child and to give him food and clothing. (3) The one doing the adopting cannot refuse to accept his adopted son. (4) The child cannot be made a slave. (5) The child’s birth parents cannot take him back. (6) Adoption gives the child the right to inherit.” —Adapted, Derek R. Moore-Crispin, “Galatians 4:1–9: The Use and Abuse of Parallels,” The Evangelical Quarterly, volume LXI, number 3 (1989), page 216.

All these rights are made certain by law. But just imagine how much greater the benefits are that we have as the adopted children of God!

`The Hebrew word Abba, in Galatians 4:6, was the word children used for their fathers. It is the same as Daddy or Papa today. Jesus used it in prayer (Mark 14:36). It is our right to use it, as well. How does it make you feel to know we can use it, too?`