---
title:  Why turn back to being slaves?
date:   17/08/2017
---

_Galatians 4:8–20_

`Read Galatians 4:8–20. What is Paul saying in these verses? Write down your thoughts on the lines below. There are false teachings and customs among the Galatians. How seriously does Paul take these threats?`

Paul does not say exactly what these religious customs of the Galatians are. But he clearly is writing about a false system of worship. This false worship results in spiritual slavery. Paul thought this system was very dangerous and destructive. It is what caused him to write such a strong letter of warning to the Galatians. Paul warned them that what they were doing was turning themselves away from being God’s sons. They were becoming slaves again.

`Read Galatians 4:9–11. Paul does not say exactly what the Galatians are doing. But he makes his feelings clear. He finds it wrong. Why does it upset Paul so much?`

In Galatians 4:10, Paul talks about “special days and months and seasons and years” (NIrV). Many think this wording means Paul is against both the Sabbath and the Old Testament laws of sacrifice.But this idea is wrong.Why? First, suppose Paul really was against keeping the Sabbath and other Jewish customs. Then he could have just named them. Second, Paul makes it clear that what the Galatians are doing has led them from freedom into slavery. “Suppose that keeping the seventh-day Sabbath holy made people slaves. Then, that would mean the Creator God Himself became a slave when He kept the world’s first Sabbath!” —Adapted, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 6, page 967. Also suppose keeping the Sabbath took away freedom and made slaves of people. Then why would Jesus have kept the Sabbath and taught others to keep it, too?

`Are there things we do as Adventists that take away the freedom we have in Christ? If so, what are they? Suppose doing such things were not the real problem. What if the real problem were how we felt and thought about those things? How could a wrong thought or feeling lead us into the kind of slavery Paul warned the Galatians against?`