---
title:  Additional thought
date:   18/08/2017
---

“A plan was made in heaven to save sinners. Christ would become the Substitute for humans to save them from death. Those who believed in Him would become the children of God by Jesus Christ. This plan was exactly what God wanted. God wants all people to be saved. All that could be done to save humans was done. God gave His only Son to pay the price for our sins. Those who do not receive eternal life will die because they refused to be adopted as the children of God through Jesus Christ. Pride prevents some humans from accepting God’s gift of salvation. But none of our goodness is good enough to win us eternal life. The only thing that makes us pleasing to God is grace. [Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin.] We receive this grace by faith in the name of Christ. We cannot depend on our works or feelings as proof that we are saved. We are chosen through Christ alone.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White, “Chosen in Christ,” Signs of the Times, January 2, 1893.

**Discussion questions:**

`1. Think some more about what it means—and what it does not mean—to be as children in our walk with the Lord. Name some of the things children are or do that we should try to be or do in our relationship with God. At the same time, how can we take this idea too far?`

`2. What makes people so afraid of being saved by faith alone? Why would so many people try to earn salvation through good works instead?`

`3. As a class, go over the last question in Thursday’s study. What are the ways that we, as Seventh-day Adventists, can get caught back up in the slavery God has freed us from? How can we know if this happens to us? And how can we be set free?`

**Summary**: In Christ, we have been adopted into God’s family. Now we are His sons and daughters. We are God’s children. We have a right to all the blessings that come with such a special relationship. Suppose we wished to worship God with a relationship made only of rules and laws. Such worship would be foolish! It would be the same as the son in Galatians 4:1–3 wanting to give up being the heir so that he could become a slave!
