---
title:  Divine Work of the Holy Spirit
date:   18/01/2017
---

### Divine Work of the Holy Spirit

The Holy Spirit performs certain works, which the Bible ascribes only to God. He is active in the divine work of the Creation, and He is just as active in God’s re-creation of sinners. 

`Read Titus 3:4–6. How does Paul describe the involvement of the Holy Spirit in the process of re-creation?` 

The Holy Spirit is mentioned side by side with “God our Savior” (Titus 3:4, NASB) in the context of the washing of regeneration (baptism) and our spiritual renewal (Titus 3:5). He is the agent of our new birth. He renews our hearts. He awakens our desire to follow Christ. He is the Spirit of life (Rom. 8:2). He is the One who sanctifies sinners and transforms our characters. He helps us to be obedient to Jesus Christ, who saved us. Only a Divine Being is capable of such wonderful things.

`Compare Isaiah 6:8–10 with Acts 28:25–27. To whom do the biblical writers attribute the divine speaking?`

There are several biblical passages in which, on the one hand, God is said to be speaking and in which other biblical writers state that the Holy Spirit is said to be speaking. It is the Holy Spirit who supernaturally imparted the Holy Scriptures to us (2 Pet. 1:21), something that elsewhere is described as God’s inspiration (2 Tim. 3:16). Giving the Scriptures is another divine work of the Spirit.

`What does Romans 8:11 teach us about the divinity of the Holy Spirit?`

The Bible states that the Holy Spirit raised Jesus from the dead and will also raise us. Only God has the power to raise people from the dead. Hence, the Holy Spirit is God. 

`What are changes you can make that would cause you to be more open to the leading of the Holy Spirit? That is, what practices might be keeping you from clearly discerning His leading in your life?`