---
title:  Further Thought
date:   20/01/2017
---

#### Further Thought

Read Ellen G. White, “Misrepresentations of the Godhead,” pp. 613–617, in Evangelism. 

As we have seen this week, the biblical evidence for the divinity of the Holy Spirit is very convincing. The Holy Spirit is God. But remember: in thinking about the Holy Spirit, we are dealing with a divine mystery. We reiterate the point: just as we cannot fully explain God and His nature, we have to resist the temptation to make our human comprehension the norm for how God should be. Truth goes far beyond human comprehension, especially when that truth deals with the nature of God Himself. 

At the same time, faith in the divinity of the Holy Spirit means more than accepting the bare teaching of the Trinity. It includes reliance on and confidence in the saving work of God as it is commissioned by the Father and accomplished through the Son in the power of the Spirit. “It is not essential for us to be able to define just what the Holy Spirit is. . . . The nature of the Holy Spirit is a mystery. Men cannot explain it, because the Lord has not revealed it to them. Men having fanciful views may bring together passages of Scripture and put a human construction on them, but the acceptance of these views will not strengthen the church. Regarding such mysteries, which are too deep for human understanding, silence is golden.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 51, 52.

#### Discussion Questions:

`Austrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein once wrote: “What we cannot speak about we must pass over in silence.” Although his context was quite different from that which Ellen G. White wrote above, the principle is the same. That is, why is it better to keep silent about aspects of God and of spiritual truth in general that have not been revealed by Inspiration?`

`Sometimes it is helpful to reflect upon a theological position by asking the question: What would be lost if the proposal were untrue? For instance, What would be lost if Christ were not divine? With regard to the Holy Spirit, reflect on the following question: What would be lost if the Holy Spirit were not fully God?`

`What does the following quote say to us on a practical level? “The Holy Spirit, who is to fill us, is not some vague influence or mystic force. He is a divine Person, to be received with deep humility, veneration, and obedience. Therefore it is not a question of our having more of Him, but of His having more of us—yes, all there is of us.”—LeRoy Edwin Froom, The Coming of the Comforter, p. 159.`

<div style="background:#b9ebfb; padding: 20px;">
  <div onclick="document.getElementById('important-message').style.display = 'block';document.getElementById('show').style.display = 'none';document.getElementById('hide').style.display = 'block';" id="show"><span>+</span> Important Message</div>
  <div onclick="document.getElementById('important-message').style.display = 'none';document.getElementById('show').style.display = 'block';document.getElementById('hide').style.display = 'none';" id="hide" style="display:none"><span>-</span> Important Message</div>

  <div id="important-message" style="display:none">
  <p>Dear brothers and sisters,</p>

  <p>With great disappointment I would like to inform that Portuguese Publishing House (Publicadora SerVir) reached out to us and threatened with legal sanctions if we keep providing Portuguese Sabbath School lessons in our application.</p>

  <p>It is extremely sad that too witness our own church entities doing it. But it is the reality of the world we live in, and has been prophesied long time ago (Ephesians 6:12) – and many of our church leaders are blind to the true evangelism and has only one focus – money. Greed has overtaken their minds and conscience and it is not anything new, as it has been seen before (Matthew 21:12).</p>

  <p>Mission of Adventech ministry is to glorify God through technology.</p>
  <p>Mission of Adventech is to unite our Adventist church through technology.</p>
  <p>Mission of Adventech is to use technology to bring Good News to this world and see Jesus Coming Again!</p>

  <p>To date, our Sabbath School application is providing lessons in English, Spanish, German, French, Russian, Ukrainian, Turkish and Japanese. It has over 300 000 installations. It is completely free of charge and that will never change. It is completely ad free and that will never change. Lesson is never modified from its source and that will never change. Adventech will continue doing everything possible to help brothers and sisters around the world read, study use Sabbath School. We will continue adding more languages to our application. We will continue to add more functionality and improve usability. Adventech will continue bringing talent together to create, innovate and deliver. Adventech will be building more applications!</p>

  <p>At this point Adventech ministry and me personally are praying for the guidance of the Holy Spirit, for if God is for us, who can be against us? (Romans 8:31). We do not support revolution or anything like that, but rely on God only – Romans 12:19. It is possible that more publishing houses will take path similar to Publicadora SerVir and Casa Publicadora Brasiliera – and try to stop our ministry.</p>

  <p>Because of that: we ask for your support in prayers! We ask for your support in prayers with your pastors! We ask for your support in prayers with your friends! We ask for your support in prayers with church leaders! We ask for your support in prayers for above mentioned publishing houses! We ask for your support in prayers to Jesus Christ!</p>

  <p>May God bless you all for the support.</p>

  <p>-Vitaliy</p>
  </div>
</div>