---
title: Prayer Changes Us
date: 27/07/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Luke
11:1–13**

**Prayer Changes Us**

Living in Norway, I have come to appreciate springtime in a special way. The winters are long, dark, and very cold, but once the snow starts melting and the leaves begin to bud, a sense of new life emerges. In the spring, our family loves being outside, preparing the garden for another season. On one occasion, our then six-year-old son lost his favorite little garden tool. He couldn’t think of anything but finding the lost item that meant so much to him. We all searched and searched, but the tool was nowhere to be found. That evening, he prayed specifically that the tool would return. The next morning, he jumped out of bed and ran to the barn. Excitedly, he returned to the house, holding the precious object in his hand. It was in the exact place where we had all looked more than once the day before! Perhaps an angel returned it. One thing is sure, God wants to hear our prayers, no matter how big or small our petitions.

In this lesson, we will study the parable of the persistent friend. Through this parable, Jesus instructs us on the importance of bringing our needs and wants before God. Though God is all knowing, He wants us to express our desires to Him in prayer. Through insistent, untiring prayer, we reveal that we believe His promises to be true, even when our prayers are not answered immediately or in the way we expect. God is more than willing to give us the Holy Spirit, along with all His spiritual gifts, but He wants to develop our faith by having us pursue these gifts. Prayer changes us and strengthens our resolve to live in Christ.

#### inScribe

Write out Luke 11:1–13 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 5–13. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `