---
title: An Accessible God
date: 28/07/2024
---

#### inGest

We live in a world where everyone wants to be connected. Social media has tapped into a longing for connection that has always existed. We want access to our friends. Jesus reveals that His Father is seeking a friendship with us and that He is accessible to all who seek Him.

Before we study the actual parable, let’s note the setting in which it was given. Luke makes it clear that the parable of the persistent friend immediately follows the example prayer that Jesus gave His disciples. This prayer, known as the Lord’s Prayer, reveals that God is approachable and accessible to every seeker. The parable then builds on this idea. In the Lord’s Prayer, we are invited to address God as our Father. Ellen White writes, “The very first step in approaching God is to know and believe the love that He has to us (1 John 4:16); for it is through the drawing of His love that we are led to come to Him” (Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing [1900], 104, 105). We approach God when we embrace His profound love toward us. This draws us to come to Him in prayer.

The first words in the Lord’s Prayer are, “Our Father in heaven” (Luke 11:2). We are invited to address a personal Being in a specific place. God is, of course, not limited to one place, as we learn in Scripture that He is omnipresent. However, many new forms of spirituality are arising, teaching that God is a force to be found in the objects of nature as well as inside each of us. This teaching, often referred to as pantheism, leads people to seek God within themselves, but this is not how Jesus taught us to pray.

The Bible tells us that the heart of man is wicked and deceitful above all things (Jer. 17:9). This means we cannot trust our inner being but need to surrender our hearts to a power outside of us. We can only connect with God as we come to Him in total dependence. The transformational power in prayer comes from outside of us as we connect with our heavenly Father. The rest of the Lord’s Prayer flows out of this. His will can be done, His name (character) can be seen, and His kingdom can come when we seek first His person, power, and presence. Here everything comes together. We are drawn in by His love. We come to our heavenly Father stained by sin, which results from following our own will. Now we seek Him and plead for forgiveness. Our sins are forgiven, and His will is wrought in our lives. His kingdom has come!

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How does your understanding of God’s character influence the way you approach Him?`

`What stands in the way of you approaching God directly? What can you do to navigate around that roadblock?`