---
title: How Much More!
date: 29/07/2024
---

#### inTerpret

In first-century Palestine, hospitality was not just an option but a must. When the man in the parable received visitors, it was crucial that he provide a meal for them. Meals were a social event to gather and unite people. However, food was scarce, and people had to work hard to provide for the daily needs of their families. In the parable, the man without bread faced a dilemma. Either he was going to be a poor host, or he had to bother his neighbor at midnight. He decided that disturbing his friend was the better option.

This midnight interruption was not just inconvenient; it was a major disruption! Most homes in those days were simply one-room houses where the whole family slept together. The knocking likely woke the entire family. It’s one thing to wake an adult, but it’s something else to wake up a one-year-old! No wonder he started his plea with the word “friend.” Despite the major inconvenience, the neighbor, still provided bread because of the man’s persistence. He didn’t want to be bothered anymore.

A surface look at this parable could lead to a very faulty understanding of Jesus’ teaching. We often try to find our role and God’s role in the parables so we can understand how He relates to us and how we should relate to Him. In this instance, we would be the man who needs the bread, and God is obviously the one who provides the bread. After all, the Lord’s Prayer says, “Give us day by day our daily bread” (Luke 11:3). This would mean we are bothering God when we pray. How would you feel being the man knocking on the door at midnight asking for bread? Is this how we should feel when approaching God? Are we just bothering Him with the little details of our lives? After all, He has an entire universe to run. “If I just ask long enough, maybe He will give me what I need so I stop bothering Him.” I’m glad this isn’t an accurate picture of God!

The entire story makes sense once we understand that the parable is not a comparison but a contrast. If a reluctant neighbor is worth approaching for bread, “how much more” should we approach God for things He wants to give us! We find the key phrase—“how much more”—in Luke 11:13: “If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him!”

God is accessible, and we can go to Him for anything at any time. Jesus wants us to put ourselves in the shoes of the man needing bread. If he is bold enough to ask his neighbor for bread in the middle of the night, how much more we should persist in seeking heavenly gifts. Don’t give up when seeking God in prayer. Keep knocking!

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can we learn to be confident and persistent in our prayers?`