---
title: Jesus, our Ladder
date: 31/07/2024
---

#### inVite

Through the parable of the persistent friend, Jesus teaches that God is accessible and approachable. Other portions of Scripture explain that Jesus opens the way for us to approach our heavenly Father. Jesus taught His disciples, “I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Me” (John 14:6).

When Nathanael decided to become one of Jesus’ disciples, Jesus told him, “Most assuredly, I say to you, hereafter you shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man” (John 1:51). The Old Testament patriarch Jacob also encountered this close angelic connection between heaven and earth when he was fleeing for his life: “Then he dreamed, and behold, a ladder was set up on the earth, and its top reached to heaven; and there the angels of God were ascending and descending on it” (Gen. 28:12). Jacob saw this ladder reaching all the way from earth to heaven. Our access to heaven is guaranteed through Jesus, which is why we pray in Jesus’ name. Because of what Jesus has done and the victory He has gained, all God’s promises are now ours. The apostle Paul puts it this way: “For no matter how many promises God has made, they are ‘Yes’ in Christ” (2 Cor. 1:20, NIV).

We can pray God’s promises back to Him. Here are some examples: “Dear God, You said that You will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on You (Isa. 26:3). You promised I can lie down and sleep in peace and that You will keep me safe (Ps. 4:8). You said You would take away my fear and give me love and a sound mind (2 Tim. 1:7). You promised that when You begin a good work in someone, You will complete it (Phil. 1:6). You said we should not be weary in well doing, for in due season we shall reap (Gal. 6:9). You promised You would wake me up in the morning and give me the right words to speak to those who are weary (Isa. 50:4). You said Your Word would not return to You void but would accomplish that in which You are pleased (Isa. 55:11). You promised that all our children will be taught by You, and great will be their peace (Isa. 54:13). You said that when I don’t know how to pray, Your Spirit will intercede for me (Rom. 8:26).”

Because of Jesus, we can approach God’s throne with great courage. “Seeing then that we have a great High Priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a High Priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need” (Heb. 4:14–16). Memorizing and quoting God’s promises fills our hearts with humble boldness in prayer, for we know He is eager to receive our prayers and is ready to act on them.

`What Bible promises have you claimed in prayer, and how did you see God answer? How does knowing you can pray these promises strengthen your faith?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you through the text of the week?`

`Prayer Response:`