---
title:  Elijah—Praying in Crisis
date:  10/05/2026
---

Faithful Elijah lived in evil times, with King Ahab doing more “to provoke the Lord God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel who were before him” (1 Kings 16:33, NKJV). By far the most dramatic moments in Elijah’s life came with the confrontation at Mount Carmel (see 1 Kings 18). At the climax of this incredible story, Ahab and his kingdom saw with their own eyes the truth that God answers prayer. This was an unforgettable moment in Israel’s history and is why the sudden change of events in this story catches us by surprise.

`Read 1 Kings 19:1–18, specifically noting Elijah’s prayers and God’s interaction with him. What is at the heart of Elijah’s dejection here? How is God’s response different from what happened at Mount Carmel?`

Throughout the course of one day, although God answered every one of Elijah’s prayers, the prophet’s emotional, mental, and physical state soon shifted. Although Elijah had experienced a great victory with God that day, he had, in a moment of weariness, allowed the fear of death to overcome his faith in God. What is so striking about this story is that, although Elijah gave in to despondency and discourage­ment, God came to him in tenderness and care, providing food and water again (1 Kings 19:5, 6)—so much so that he lasted for 40 days and 40 nights (1 Kings 19:8). And when God finally revealed Himself, it was in a very different manner than He had before.

Sometimes in our lives, God answers in very direct, powerful, and undeniable ways. This strengthens our faith, and we feel the closeness of God in our lives.

Other times we waver and give in to temptation, thinking that it’s too hard to follow God with unswerving faith. We look for God’s answers in ways we expect Him to respond, not realizing that His thoughts and ways are far higher and wiser than our own (Isa. 55:8, 9). Just as there is much about God’s creation that we don’t understand, we shouldn’t be surprised that there is much about God’s ways that we don’t understand either.

`God, our good and kind Father, knows exactly what you need. How can you be still enough to trust Him and keep your eyes steadfast on Him through it all? Talk to Him about this now.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Important lessons are presented to us in the experience of Elijah. When upon Mt. Carmel he offered the prayer for rain, his faith was tested, but he persevered in making known his request unto God. . . . Had he given up in discouragement at the sixth time, his prayer would not have been answered, but he persevered till the answer came. We have a God whose ear is not closed to our petitions; and if we prove His word, He will honor our faith. He wants us to have all our interests interwoven with His interests, and then He can safely bless us; for we shall not then take glory to self when the blessing is ours, but shall render all the praise to God. God does not always answer our prayers the first time we call upon Him; for should He do this, we might take it for granted that we had a right to all the bles­sings and favors He bestowed upon us. Instead of searching our hearts to see if any evil was entertained by us, any sin indulged, we should become careless, and fail to realize our dependence upon Him, and our need of His help.\
Elijah humbled himself until he was in a condition where he would not take the glory to himself. This is the condition upon which the Lord hears prayer, for then we shall give the praise to Him. The custom of offering praise to men is one that results in great evil. One praises another, and thus men are led to feel that glory and honor belong to them. When you exalt man, you lay a snare for his soul, and do just as Satan would have you. . . . God alone is worthy to be glorified.—Conflict and Courage, p. 212.\
The servant watched while Elijah prayed. . . . As he searched his heart, he seemed to be less and less, both in his own estimation and in the sight of God. It seemed to him that he was nothing, and that God was everything; and when he reached the point of renouncing self, while he clung to the Saviour as his only strength and righteousness, the answer came.—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 206.
