---
title:  When Prayers Seem Unanswered
date:  11/05/2026
---

Perhaps you’ve prayed about something for a long time, maybe even years, and it feels as if God hasn’t heard your prayers. The Bible tells us to “ask, and it shall be given you” (Matt. 7:7), “if we ask anything according to His will” (1 John 5:14, NKJV). What is your understanding of these promises?

Hannah is an example of a devoted woman who prayed for something very specific (1 Sam. 1:10–17). At first it seemed that God did not answer her prayers, but she persisted, and God did answer, in His perfect time and according to His will. Sometimes the waiting deepens our walk with God, as we learn to trust Him more.

Psalm 62:8 says, “Trust in Him at all times, you people; pour out your heart before Him; God is a refuge for us” (NKJV). Trust. Do we trust that He really does know what’s best, even when we don’t see an immediate answer to our prayers? Do we trust that eventually He _will_ answer in His perfect time and way?

Sometimes our prayers may not be answered as quickly as we want or in the manner that we hope they will be. What counsel does the Bible give us about this?

•	Seek God’s will, not your own (Matt. 6:10; 1 John 5:14, 15).

•	Consider your motives (Prov. 16:2, James 4:3).

•	Think about whether you have a cherished sin (Ps. 66:18, 1 Pet. 3:12, Prov. 15:29).

•	Abide in God and in His Word (John 15:7).

•	Have faith when you pray (Heb. 11:6, James 1:6, Mark 11:24, Matt. 21:22).

•	Consider the state of your heart (humble or proud) (James 4:6, 1 Pet. 5:6).

•	Persevere (1 Thess. 5:17, 18).

•	Forgive others (Mark 11:25, 26).

•	Ultimately, God sees the big picture and knows what is best for us (Rom. 8:28, Eph. 3:20, Jer. 29:11–13). Sometimes His answer merely is as it was for Paul: “ ‘My grace is sufficient for you’ ” (2 Cor. 12:9, NKJV).

A key fact that determines our response to what seems like unanswered prayers is our picture of God. If we see God as distant and disinterested, our relationship with Him weakens. In such times, search the Bible for evidence of His love and care for you, and pray that your distorted picture of Him will become clearer.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Naaman the Syrian consulted the prophet of God as to how he could be cured of a loathsome disease, the leprosy. He was bidden to go and bathe in Jordan seven times. Why did he not immediately follow the directions of Elisha, the prophet of God? . . . In his mortification and disappointment he became passionate, and in a rage refused to follow the humble course marked out by the prophet of God. “I thought,” said he, “he will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the name of the Lord his God, and strike his hand over the place, and recover the leper. Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? may I not wash in them, and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage.” His servant said: “My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it? how much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash [merely], and be clean?” Yes, this great man considered it beneath his dignity to go to the humble river Jordan, and wash. The rivers he mentioned and desired were beautified by surrounding trees and groves, and idols were placed in these groves. Many flocked to these rivers to worship their idol gods; therefore it would have cost him no humility. But it was following the specified directions of the prophet which would humble his proud and lofty spirit. Willing obedience would bring the desired result. He washed, and was made whole.\
Our plans are not always God’s plans. . . . In His loving care and interest for us, often He who understands us better than we understand ourselves refuses to permit us selfishly to seek the gratification of our own ambition. . . . Many things He ask us to yield to Him, but in doing this we are but giving up that which hinders us in the heavenward way. . . .\
In the future life the mysteries that here have annoyed and disappointed us will be made plain. We shall see that our seemingly unanswered prayers and disappointed hopes have been among our greatest blessings.—Conflict and Courage, p. 228.

As the Giver of every blessing, God claims a certain portion of all we possess. This is His provision to sustain the preaching of the gospel. And by making this return to God, we are to show our appreciation of His gifts. But if we withhold from Him that which is His own, how can we expect Him to entrust us with the things of heaven? It may be that here is the secret of unanswered prayer.—Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 144.