---
title:  Jesus Teaches Us How to Pray
date:  12/05/2026
---

In the time of Jesus, prayers that were long and carefully crafted like a performance—using complex words and often memorized—were highly esteemed. Jesus had nothing good to say about these kinds of prayers (see Matt. 6:5–8). He revealed them to be what they were: ostentatious shows of “piety.”

The disciples saw Jesus pray, and they knew that prayer was a vital part of His life (see Luke 5:16, Luke 6:12, Luke 9:18, Luke 22:41, Luke 24:30, Mark 1:35, Mark 6:46). As they watched Jesus, they saw a contrast from the religious leaders and realized that there was so much more to prayer than they had ever considered. So, the disciples came to Jesus, asking, “ ‘Lord, teach us to pray’ ” (Luke 11:1).

Jesus modeled to His disciples (and to us) that we can pray simply in everyday language. He showed us that our prayers should be sincere and from our hearts.

Read Luke 11:2–4 and Matthew 6:5–15 and notice the following aspects of the prayer Jesus taught:

•	Our Father in heaven: acknowledging your personal relationship with the Father of all.

•	Hallowed be Your name: recognizing God’s holiness makes us come in reverence and respect.

•	Your kingdom come: longing for God’s return and an indwelling of the Holy Spirit until He does so.

•	Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven: surrendering and praying for God’s will to be done in our lives, trusting that He knows best, rather than merely praying for what we want.

•	Give us this day our daily bread: asking for what we need to live, both physically (food and water) and spiritually (Jesus and His living Word).

•	Forgive our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us: repenting, seeking forgiveness, and remembering to pardon those who have hurt us as freely as God forgives us.

•	Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: asking for protection and shelter from the evil in this world _(Psalm 91)_.

•	For Thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen: acknowledging that all we are, all we have, and all we do belongs to God. He alone deserves our glory and praise_ (1 Chron. 29:11)_.

`Why not pray more and turn your face to God each morning to talk to the One who loves you more than any other? What is stopping you from doing this as you know you should? Pray right now, as Jesus has invited us to.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ did not give this prayer [the Lord’s Prayer, Luke 11:2-4] for men to repeat as a form. He gave it as an illustration of what our prayers should be—simple, earnest, and comprehensive.\
Many prayers are offered without faith. A set form of words is used, but there is no real importunity. These prayers are doubtful, hesitating; they bring no relief to those who offer them, and no comfort or hope to others. The form of prayer is used, but the spirit is wanting, showing that the petitioner does not feel his need. . . .\
Learn to pray short and right to the point, asking for just what you need. Learn to pray aloud where only God can hear you. Do not offer make-believe prayers, but earnest, feeling petitions, expressing the hunger of the soul for the Bread of Life. If we prayed more in secret, we should be able to pray more intelligently in public. These doubtful, hesitating prayers would cease. And when we engaged with our brethren in public worship, we could add to the interest of the meeting; for we should bring with us some of the atmosphere of heaven, and our worship would be a reality, and not a mere form. . . . If the soul is not drawn out in prayer in the closet and while engaged in the business of the day, it will be manifest in the prayer meeting. . . .\
The life of the soul depends upon habitual communion with God. Its wants are made known, and the heart is open to receive fresh blessings. Gratitude flows from unfeigned lips; and the refreshing that is received from Jesus is manifested in words, in deeds of active benevolence, and in public devotion. There is love to Jesus in the heart; and where love exists, it will not be repressed, but will express itself. Secret prayer sustains this inner life. The heart that loves God will desire to commune with Him, and will lean on Him in holy confidence.\
Let us learn to pray intelligently, expressing our requests with clearness and precision. Let us. . . pray as though we meant it. “The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.” James 5:16.—Our High Calling, p. 130.

Christ was continually receiving from the Father that He might communicate to us. “The word which ye hear,” He said, “is not Mine, but the Father’s which sent Me.” John 14:24. “The Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister.” Matthew 20:28. Not for Himself, but for others, He lived and thought and prayed. From hours spent with God He came forth morning by morning, to bring the light of heaven to men. Daily He received a fresh baptism of the Holy Spirit. In the early hours of the new day the Lord awakened Him from His slumbers, and His soul and His lips were anointed with grace, that He might impart to others. His words were given Him fresh from the heavenly courts, words that He might speak in season to the weary and oppressed. “The Lord God hath given Me,” He said, “the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him that is weary: He wakeneth morning by morning, He wakeneth Mine ear to hear as the learned.” Isaiah 50:4.\
Christ’s disciples were much impressed by His prayers and by His habit of communion with God. One day after a short absence from their Lord, they found Him absorbed in supplication. Seeming unconscious of their presence, He continued praying aloud. The hearts of the disciples were deeply moved. As He ceased praying, they exclaimed, “Lord, teach us to pray.”—Christ’s Object Lessons, pp. 139, 140.
