---
title:  Praise, Confession, Requests, Thanksgiving
date:  13/05/2026
---

In the same way that Jesus taught us how to pray in Matthew 6:5–15, we can follow this simple model when we come to God privately, with our families, or as a church, remembering that prayer is speaking to God as a friend. Too often our prayers are full of requests when Jesus has taught us to pray for so much more!

`Read Daniel’s prayer in Daniel 9:4–19 and look for different parts of his prayer.`

Consider how you might include the following components in your prayers:

Praise: Praise is expressed adoration for who God is and what He is like. Read Psalm 100, the beautiful praise song to God. Consider God’s many names and His magnificent character. Praise Him for being your Redeemer, Savior, Comforter, Healer, Good Shepherd, Alpha and Omega, and Rock, to mention just a few.

Confession and Forgiveness: When we find ourselves talking with and abiding in God, we can’t help letting go of whatever might be holding us back or separating us from Him. The closer we are to Him, the more we see our unworthiness and wretchedness. This makes us beg Him to remove our sins and shape our character in His likeness. If we expect God to forgive us, we need to be ready to forgive others as well. “Confess your trespasses to one another, and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much” (James 5:16, NKJV).

Requests: What challenges are you facing, perhaps with your family, friends, health, finances, work, or study? Where, specifically, do you need God’s leading hand to guide? Who needs your support, and how can you best give it? Pray specifically about these areas and people, asking for God’s will to be done.

Thanksgiving: Read Philippians 4:6 and think about the blessings in your life. Significant things might come to mind, but what about the small things that we so often take for granted? We are the constant recipients of God’s mercies; yet, how little gratitude we express, how little we praise Him for what He has done for us.

`What things do you need to praise God for, confess to Him, request from Him, and to thank Him for? Why not do it right now?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

On the day of Pentecost the Infinite One revealed Himself in power to the church. By His Holy Spirit He descended from the heights of heaven as a rushing mighty wind to the room in which the disciples were assembled. Words of penitence and confession of sin were mingled with songs of praise for sins forgiven. Words of thanksgiving and of prophecy were heard. All heaven was bending low to behold and adore the wisdom of matchless, incomprehensible love.\
The apostles and disciples were lost in wonder, and exclaimed, “Herein is love!” They grasped the imparted gift. Their hearts were surcharged with a benevolence so full, so deep, so far-reaching, that it impelled them to go to the ends of the earth testifying, God forbid that we should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. They were filled with an intense longing to add to the church such as should be saved. . . .\
As the disciples went forth to proclaim the gospel, filled with the power of the Spirit, so God’s servants are to go forth today. All around us are fields white unto the harvest. These fields are to be reaped. We are to take up the work, filled with an unselfish desire to give the message of mercy to those who are in the darkness of error and unbelief. God will move on the hearts of believers to carry forward His work to the regions beyond. . . .\
The Lord God is bound by an eternal pledge to supply power and grace to every one who is sanctified through obedience to the truth. Jesus Christ, to whom is given all power in heaven and on earth, unites in sympathy with His instrumentalities—the earnest souls who day by day partake of the living bread “which cometh down from heaven” (John 6:33). The church on earth, united with the church in heaven, can accomplish all things.—That I May Know Him, p. 344.

The Lord calls upon us for confession of His goodness. . . . Our confession of His faithfulness is Heaven’s chosen agency for revealing Christ to the world. We are to acknowledge His grace as made known through the holy men of old; but that which will be most effectual is the testimony of our own experience. We are witnesses for God as we reveal in ourselves the working of a power that is divine. Every individual has a life distinct from all others, and an experience differing essentially from theirs. God desires that our praise shall ascend to Him, marked by our own individuality. These precious acknowledgements to the praise of the glory of His grace, when supported by a Christlike life, have an irresistible power that works for the salvation of souls.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 277.
