---
title:  Further Thought
date:  15/05/2026
---

“If we thought and talked more of Jesus, and less of self, we should have far more of His presence.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, p. 102.

“If we take counsel with our doubts and fears, or try to solve everything that we cannot see clearly, before we have faith, perplexities will only increase and deepen. But if we come to God, feeling helpless and dependent, as we really are, and in humble, trusting faith make known our wants to Him whose knowledge is infinite, who sees everything in creation, and who governs everything by His will and word, He can and will attend to our cry, and will let light shine into our hearts.”—Steps to Christ, pp. 96, 97.

“The soul may ascend nearer heaven on the wings of praise. God is worshiped with song and music in the courts above, and as we express our gratitude we are approximating to the worship of the heavenly hosts. . . . Let us with reverent joy come before our Creator, with ‘thanksgiving, and the voice of melody.’ Isaiah 51:3.”—Steps to Christ. p. 104.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Which concept in the quotes above inspires you the most? Which concept challenges you the most?`

`What other lessons can we learn from the prayer lives of others in the Bible? (See Ezra 10:1; 2 Kings 13:4; Jon. 4:2, 3; Hab. 3:1; 2 Kings 19:14–19; Jer. 32:16–25; Neh. 1:4–11; 1 Kings 8:22–54; to list just a few.)`

`What is the role of fasting alongside prayer?`

`Is there anything new that you would like to change or implement in your prayer life as a result of this week’s lesson? Why not make the changes?`

**Summary**: The Bible shares accounts of individuals who had vibrant, abiding prayer lives and others who didn’t. As we search its pages, we’ll always find someone we can relate to, regardless of the state of our relationship with God. We’ll also find many, many promises that will encourage and guide us in our devotional lives. Spiritual growth should be our goal—our eyes fixed on Jesus, the ultimate Example in all things and the Author and Finisher of our faith.