---
title:  Leaders in Israel
date:   21/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 


**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Judges 4:1–16; 1 Kings 15:26, 34; Nehemiah 4:7–23; Ezra 7:8–10; Ezra 8:21–23, 31, 32.

> **MEMORY VERSE**: <p></p> 
> “Then all the people went away to eat and drink. They sent some of their food to others. And they celebrated with great [much] joy. They finally understood what they had been taught” (Nehemiah 8:12, ICB). 

**BOTH EZRA AND NEHEMIAH** are examples of good leaders. They served God with their whole hearts. They did the work God gave them to do. Their love for God helped them to be loyal servants. 

This week, we will look at examples of leaders in the Bible. What lessons can their lives teach us? We will look at Ezra and Nehemiah, of course. But we also will look at other leaders too. We will look at the things that make these men and women good leaders. These things make people good leaders today too. Maybe you do not feel you are a leader now. But remember, we all have people in our lives. We have the power to change their lives for the better. So, the lessons their lives have for us are for everyone.

The Bible is important in the lives of the leaders we will study this week. The Bible changed their thinking and their lives. The Bible also helped bring new spiritual life and change to the lives of God’s people. The leaders thanked God for the wisdom they found in the Bible. In the same way, we must make Bible teachings a very important part of our lives. 

_We must make Bible teachings a very important part of our lives._