---
title: Leaders Who Do Evil In God's Eyes
date: 23/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

**Read the verses below. What do they tell us about the leaders? What difference do these leaders make in the lives of their people?**

`1 Kings 15:26, 34`

`2 Kings 13:1–3`

`John 11:46–53`

Leaders have the power to change people’s spiritual lives. Leaders can lift people up. Or pull them down. In the examples we looked at, the leaders pull the people down into sin. Then awful things happen.

Our love for Jesus makes a difference in the lives of the people we meet. Spiritual leaders can lead people to God or away from Him.

Compare the leaders we read about today to Ezra and Nehemiah. Ezra and Nehemiah have a strong connection with God. They pray. They also fast or go without food for spiritual reasons for a short time. Ezra and Nehemiah pray and fast more than any other leaders in the Bible. When Ezra and Nehemiah lead the country, the people walk with God. Sure, not everything is perfect in Judah at that time. But these leaders tell their people to put God first. True, some people during Ezra and Nehemiah’s time do not change their lives for the better. But that just shows us that no one else’s faith can change us. We must choose to follow God ourselves. Remember, many people had the chance to see Jesus. They heard Him preach. They saw His miracles. But in the end, they turned away from Him. Yes, we have the power to change lives, for good or evil. But in the end, each person must explain his or her choices in front of God.

`Remember, many people had the chance to see Jesus. They heard Him preach. They saw His miracles. But in the end, they turned away from Him.`
