---
title: 'Courage And Power To Do Good'
date: 24/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`How does Nehemiah show courage in Nehemiah 4:7–23? What gives him this courage?`

Nehemiah stands against the enemies of his people. The enemies try to make the Jews afraid. Nehemiah takes action. He gets the people ready to fight. Nehemiah does not just say, “All right, God. You do all the work!” No, Nehemiah tells the people to do their part too. The people pick up swords and other weapons. They hold these weapons while they work at the same time. They rebuild the wall. Nehemiah is a good leader. So, the Jews trust God. They are not afraid. Nehemiah encourages the people to protect their city. Nehemiah believes in his people. He helps them. He works with them and shows them what to do in hard times. He gives the power they need to do their work well. But Nehemiah does not only tell the people what to do. He does not give orders and then go to hide in his room. No, he stands with the people on the wall. He does the hard work that needs to be done.

There are times in the Bible when God tells His people to let Him fight for them. There are many other times when God says, “Get ready to fight. I will help you win!” We must do our part if we want to see God’s blessings.

“Nehemiah cared deeply about doing God’s work. He was firm in his love. He had a loyal heart. He also firmly depended on God for everything. That is the reason Nehemiah’s enemies failed to trap him in their power. The lazy person will fall into sin. But not people who serve God with all their hearts. Evil cannot beat these people. So, we must continue to grow in faith. Then our faith will not weaken. We will see God’s love working for good in everything around us. God’s true servants work with firm hearts. They will not fail. They always depend on God’s throne.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 660, adapted. 

In the end, Nehemiah trusts in God’s power. It gives him courage. At the same time, his knowledge about God helps him to act on his faith and beliefs.

`Read James 2:18. How does Nehemiah’s life show us the truth in this verse?`

_Nehemiah stands with the people on the wall. He does the hard work that needs to be done._