---
title: 'A Heart For God'
date: 25/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 2:1–10 and Ezra 7:8–10. What do these verses teach us about these two leaders? What is their reason for everything they do?`

Ezra and Nehemiah want to follow God’s plan. They also want the Jews to follow God’s plan for their lives too. Yes, God’s people messed up at times. Yes, God punishes them for their mistakes. But God keeps His promises. He gives His people new lives. He opens the way for His people to come back to the Promised Land. He also wants them to do their part in His plan for their lives. He wants them to be a bright light to people from foreign countries. Then these other people will want to worship God too. So, what does the Lord do to work out His plan for His people? He chooses two holy men: Ezra and Nehemiah. These men are much the same as Moses. God gives Ezra and Nehemiah a big part in His plan to make life new for His people. God gave Moses the same job many hundreds of years ago.

Excellent leaders also have an important reason for the work they do. This reason is part of everything they do. Ezra and Nehemiah know what they want for God’s people. They have a plan. It is God’s plan. Ezra and Nehemiah put everything into making God’s plan happen.

Ezra does everything he can to make this plan happen. He studies the Bible. He teaches the people about God and Bible truth. Nehemiah also does his part. He encourages the people to do the right thing. Both Ezra and Nehemiah want to see the people build a new Jerusalem. But they are not only interested in building a new city. They want the people to have new spiritual lives. That is why Ezra and Nehemiah do what they do. They correct God’s people when they are wrong. Sometimes Ezra and Nehemiah order God’s people to change their lives. Ezra and Nehemiah believe in a loving and powerful God. They believe in a God who can do miracles. Most of all, they want everyone to have a deep connection with God. That is the best miracle of all.

In Nehemiah 1, we see how much Nehemiah loves God’s cause. Nehemiah is upset when he sees evil men hurt God’s people. In Nehemiah 1, Nehemiah cries about Israel’s suffering. Nehemiah prays to God for help. Nehemiah promises God he will do whatever God asks him to do to help the Jews. He is a man of faith. His faith causes him to act. He wants to make this earth a better place to live. 

_Our connection with God is the best miracle of all._