---
title:  A HEART WITH NO PRIDE
date:   26/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about Ezra’s decision in Ezra 8:21–23, 31, 32. What decision does Ezra make? Do you think it is foolish or brave? How do Ezra and the people show they have no pride in their hearts?`

Sometime later, Nehemiah accepts the king’s help. The king offers to send men to protect Nehemiah. But in Ezra’s story, we learn that Ezra believes that God can protect him and the people. So, Ezra does not ask the king for men to protect them on their journey home. Then Ezra and the people arrive in Judah safely. Everyone praises God. Maybe we depend too much on other people to help us. We do not let God show Himself to us. We do not give Him the chance to help us. Ezra chooses to let God do the work. God protects Ezra and the people. He keeps them safe on their trip home. Then the King of Persia sees that God takes care of His people. The king sees that God is strong and powerful.

Ezra acts in faith. He does not simply expect God to help him. He and the people meet together first. Then they fast or eat no food for a short time. They pray about their problem. They spend much time with God. They come before God with no pride in their hearts. They ask God to protect them on their trip home. They want God’s help to be a sign to the King of Persia. They want to show the king that God is mighty and powerful. God answers their prayers.

`Read Nehemiah 5:14–19. How does Nehemiah show he has no pride in his heart?`

True leaders must be willing to be servants. Good leaders do not need a big title or name to give them honor. They believe that true honor comes from serving God. Nehemiah shows he has no pride in his heart. He gives many gifts to the people. His unselfish spirit is an example to the people. Yes, Nehemiah is a strong man. He does not put up with sin. At the same time, he does not act as if he is better than anyone either. Nehemiah is the top leader in Judah at the time. But does he act the same as a king? Does he show off his power? No, he acts the same as a servant. In this way, Nehemiah’s life shows us the life and teachings of Jesus. Jesus teaches us that the best way to lead people is to serve them. We must do the same today.

_Jesus teaches us that the best way to lead people is to serve them._