---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 27/12/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**Additional thought**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “The Privilege of Prayer,” pages 93–104, in Steps to Christ.  

“God chooses Zerubbabel, Ezra, and Nehemiah to do special work. These leaders help rebuild Jerusalem. They help God’s people make changes for a better life. The work these leaders do is a word picture. It shows us the spiritual work that God wants to do in us in the end times. He wants to make us new. The Jews who go back to Judah are weak. Their enemies hurt them. But God has a plan for His people. God wants the Jews to keep the knowledge about God and His law alive on the earth. God gives His people the job of protecting His law. They also protect true worship on the earth. God’s people have many experiences as they build again the temple and the city wall. Enemies try to stop their work. But the leaders move forward to do the work God gives them. They trust in God. They have hearts with no pride. They depend firmly on God. They believe God will cause His truth to win. Nehemiah does the same thing King Hezekiah does long ago. ‘Hezekiah was loyal to the Lord. He did not stop following the Lord. He obeyed the commands the Lord had given Moses. And the Lord was with Hezekiah. He had success in everything he did.’ 2 Kings 18:6, 7 [ICB].”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 677, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**:

`1. Why must we do all we can, with God’s help, to support our leaders?`

`2 Why is it hard for a leader also to be a servant? What gets in the way? At the same time, why is being a good servant leader so rewarding? Why is it important for a Christian leader to be a servant?`

`3. Both Ezra and Nehemiah are men who pray a lot. Count how many times you find the words “prayer” or “prayed” in the books of Ezra and Nehemiah. You will see these men prayed a lot! What does that tell us about how much we need to pray?`

`4. “Hezekiah was loyal to the Lord. He did not stop following the Lord. He obeyed the commands the Lord had given Moses” (2 Kings 18:6, ICB). How do we stay loyal to the Lord? What answer does this verse give us?`

_“God wants the Jews to keep the knowledge about God and His law alive on the earth.”_