---
title:  In the Beginning
date:  25/06/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 1:1–13**

**In the Beginning**

The concept of “beginning” is biblical. Apart from the Godhead, everything (animate and inanimate, corporeal and incorporeal, visible and invisible) had a beginning. In short, creation had a beginning. That beginning had a time and a source. While the Bible gives no date for the first act of creation (which would certainly have included the creation of heavenly beings), nor for the creation recorded in Genesis 1, it clearly identifies the source. That source, or beginning, is God! He is the Father of beginnings (except the beginning of sin).

How did God begin the creation of this planet called earth? He began with light on day one. All subsequent creative acts done in the first week were done in the light made on day one. That light was created by the Word. The Word is light!

This has profound implications for the followers of God, who should ask at all times, “Am I following God’s pattern of creation?” In human terms, the creation or building of a life involves aspects of education, romance, marriage, family, finances, career, retirement, and so on. Each should have as its beginning the light of God’s word. This is how the child of God applies the priceless, life-saving wisdom, “In all thy ways acknowledge him” (Prov. 3:6, KJV). Begin with light! It guides, counsels, rebukes, warns, instructs, sanctifies, and saves.

Those who, through Christ, are recreated in the image of God should act like God by beginning all that they do with light . . . the light of God’s word.

The path that begins in light and continues in light will most surely terminate in heaven.

#### inScribe

Write out John 1:1–13 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `