---
title:  Without Exception
date:  26/06/2022
---

#### inGest

Just as God created light to shine on everyone and vegetation to benefit all, so He created the Sabbath as a gift to all humanity (Gen. 2:1–3). There exists, however, within mainstream Christianity, a groundless belief that the Ten Commandments were restricted to the Jews. This view is most pointedly applied to the fourth commandment, which requires the strict observance of the seventh day as the Sabbath, and is widely used as justification for honoring Sunday as the New Testament Sabbath, or the new covenant Sabbath.

A careful examination of the fourth commandment text quickly lays bare the emptiness of the “Jewish Sabbath” argument. God prohibited work on Sabbath with these words, “In it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gate” (Exod. 20:10).

The inclusion of “the stranger” is critical and deserves a closer look. A stranger was a non-Israelite, a foreigner, an uncircumcised person. He may be among the Israelites, but not of them. He could not participate in the most momentous of Israelite festivals, the Passover. Why? Because he was not an Israelite. To qualify, he would have to be circumcised (Exod. 12:43–46). The Passover celebration was not a universal requirement. It was strictly for the Israelites. Nor was it timeless; it ended at Calvary (cf. 1 Cor. 5:7).

While the Passover (a ceremony) was for Israelite people, the Sabbath was for people—many and all people. The Passover was ceremonial, temporary, and narrow in application. The Sabbath commandment is moral, eternal, and universal in application. As Ellen White writes, “The law was not spoken at this time exclusively for the benefit of the Hebrews. God honored them by making them the guardians and keepers of His law, but it was to be held as a sacred trust for the whole world.”[1]

Centuries before the Mount Sinai event, the Creator introduced the Sabbath to Adam and Eve—the world’s total population. As a moral commandment expressive of God’s very righteousness, the Sabbath cannot have an ethnic or cultural restriction. It is central to “the whole duty of man” (Eccles. 12:13, KJV) and of angels (cf. Ps. 103:20).

[1] Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1890), 305.

` `