---
title:  Sabbath at the End
date:  27/06/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Anyone familiar with the Sabbath commandment in Exodus 20 cannot but hear its echo in Revelation 14:7. The end-time proclamation symbolically carried by the three angels of Revelation 14:6–11 begins with a call to worship the Creator God, whose creatorship is enshrined in the fourth commandment. Thus, at the end of time, the theme of worship is inextricably linked to the observance of the seventh-day Sabbath.

Once again, in the warning of the third angel, a call is made to reject the worship of the beast who would usurp God’s prerogatives (Rev. 14:9–11). Just as the Creator has a sign of loyalty to Him in the observance of the seventh-day Sabbath (cf. Ezek. 20:20), the beast places a mark on the forehead or hand of those who yield to him their loyalty (Rev. 14:9). At the very least, the failure to observe the Creator’s Sabbath is disloyalty to God; at worst, observance of a replacement or counterfeit sabbath is loyalty to the one who instituted the counterfeit.

As earth’s time draws to a close, all of humanity will be called to make a choice between accepting or rejecting God’s sovereignty. A counterfeit alternative will be readily available for those who would choose it. This alternative mark is placed either in the forehead or in the hand, representing the idea that some truly believe they are choosing the correct side (the forehead), while others may, for mere convenience, simply follow along with the beast’s counterfeit (the hand). By contrast, when God seals His people, it is only in the forehead (cf. Ezek. 9:4). God only wants worship that is sincere.

Before Jesus comes again, humanity will be polarized in their worship: those who acknowledge God as Creator in observance of the fourth commandment, and those who reject God. This will be a universal test of loyalty. Buddhists, Sikhs, Muslims, Jains, Hindus, Jews, Baháʼís, atheists, Christians, and agnostics will pick a side. For God to be fair, the issues involved in their choice to recognize God’s sovereignty in Sabbath worship will have to be so plainly represented to their minds that they will acknowledge God’s justice in the final judgment. Any and all misapprehension about the Sabbath must be clarified.

Professed Sabbath-keepers must fully grasp its significance so as to clearly represent it to the world. Sabbath-keepers must encounter its true meaning in order to reflect its blessing to those living at the end of time. Worshipers of the true God will need a deeper experience in worshiping Him on the Sabbath day, that their lives may present a compelling argument in favor of choosing God over the counterfeit.

`What questions emerge after studying all of John 1:1–13? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do you see the world polarizing in matters of religion?`