---
title:  From Everlasting to Everlasting
date:  29/06/2022
---

#### inVite

The fourth commandment is generally regarded among Seventh-day Adventists as the cornerstone of God’s creatorship; however, other biblical texts enhance one’s understanding of this divine status. One example is the expression “all things,” used four times in two Pauline verses (Col. 1:16, 17). “Visible and invisible” lie within “all things.”

Responding to the invitation, “Come now, and let us reason together” (Isa. 1:18), one may safely conclude that (apart from sin and its consequences) everything that exists naturally exists by the creative power of God, whether it be physical, non-physical, animate, inanimate, visible, invisible, or any other term that describes reality (time and space). God is the origin of them all—including the very concept of “being.”

As the source of “all things,” God must predate “all things.” But who is this God who predated and created? The eternal Father Himself answered this question when He said to the Son, “And, Thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hands” (Heb. 1:10, KJV). This God/Creator status of the Son, Jesus, marks the beginning of the sublime gospel of John (John 1:1–3).

The creation account that opens the Bible presents Jesus as the pre-existent God from whom flow life and existence, time and eternity. The nagging question sounds again: What, then, has this to do with the Sabbath commandment? Much in every way!

The celebration of the Sabbath is a celebration of the eternity of Jesus Christ. It is more than this: it is a celebration of Him who is the very source of eternity. This is why His name is “the everlasting Father” (Isa. 9:6, KJV), or, as one translation puts it, the “Father of Eternity” (Young’s Literal Translation).

To remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy is to remember that Jesus, from everlasting to everlasting, from eternity to eternity, is God Almighty! This glorious celebration will continue throughout eternity (Isa. 66:23).

` `