---
title:  Paul’s Second Trip to Share the Good News
date:   25/08/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 16; Romans 3:28; Galatians 2:16; Acts 17; 1 Corinthians 1:23; Acts 18:1–10.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘Don’t [do not] be afraid! Continue talking to people and don’t be quiet!  I am with you. No one will hurt you because many of my people are in this city’ ” (Acts 18:9, 10, ICB).

PAUL AND BARNABAS helped grow the church in Antioch. They shared the Good News about Jesus everywhere. Maybe this time was the last time Paul and Barnabas worked together. Then they separated. Why did they separate? Because of John Mark, who was Barnabas’s cousin (Colossians 4:10). Paul invited Barnabas to go with him to the places where they shared the Good News on their first trip. Barnabas wanted to bring John Mark too. But Paul did not want to invite John Mark because of what he did in the past (Acts 13:13).

God made something good happen from Paul and Barnabas’s separation. Each man went a separate way. So, the two men visited a larger area than they planned at first. Barnabas took John Mark and went back to Cyprus, his home country (Acts 4:36). Paul invited Silas to go with him. Together, Paul and Silas went to Syria and Cilicia and made their churches stronger. Paul stayed several years in Tarsus before going to Antioch for the first time (Acts 9:30; Acts 11:25, 26). Now Paul had the chance to visit again the churches he started there. Paul had no idea that God had big plans for him.