---
title:  Back In Lystra
date:   26/08/2018
---

Luke tells us that Paul traveled straight to Derbe and Lystra. Paul went to Syria and Cilicia, too and made the churches there stronger (Acts 15:41).

`Read Acts 16:1–13. What do these verses tell us about Paul’s deep love for telling people about the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin?`

Timothy’s father was not Jewish. But Timothy’s mother, Eunice, was a Jewish Christian. Timothy knew Bible teachings since he was a child. His Bible knowledge shows us he was very religious. As a Christian, Timothy already earned the respect of all the believers in his church. 

In the first century A.D., a person was Jewish because he or she had a Jewish father. But because only Timothy’s mother was Jewish, Timothy was not a Jew and never was circumcised. To be circumcised means the extra skin on the end of the male sex organ is cut off. Male babies were circumcised on the eighth day after birth. 

Paul wants Timothy to work with him in synagogues. Synagogues are Jewish “churches” or places of worship. But Paul knows that Timothy needs to be circumcised first before the Jews will let him enter synagogues. So, Paul asks Timothy to become circumcised. What will happen if Timothy does not become circumcised? Then the Jews will shut him out of the synagogues because they believe he is not showing respect to God. But Timothy’s becoming circumcised does not change Paul’s message that God saves us by faith instead of by any good thing we do.

Next, Paul decided to go to Ephesus. But then the Holy Spirit stopped him from going there. So, Paul went north. He tried to go to a country named Bithynia. But again, the Holy Spirit stopped him from going. So, Paul went to the town of Troas, near the sea. God told Paul in a night vision to sail across the Aegean Sea to Macedonia. Paul told his friends about the vision. They felt that God wanted them to share the Good News with the Macedonians. 

`Think about why Paul circumcised Timothy. What should this decision teach us about why we sometimes need to do things we might not think are important but that will help us do more work for God?`