---
title:  Philippi
date:   27/08/2018
---

Paul and his friends traveled from Macedonia to Philippi. There, they started the first Christian church in Europe. 

`Read in Acts 16:11–24 about the place where Paul and his friends go on the Sabbath. Why do they go there? What happens to them there?`

Anytime Paul arrives in a city, he goes to the synagogue on the Sabbath. A synagogue is a Jewish “church” or place of worship. Paul goes there to witness to the Jews (Acts 13:14, 42, 44; Acts 17:1, 2; Acts 18:4). But when Paul gets to Philippi, he and his group go to a river to pray. Some women and some Jewish and non-Jewish believers join Paul and his group at the river. That tells us there is no synagogue in the city. That fact is important. It teaches us that Paul does not go to Jewish synagogues on the Sabbath only to witness. He also goes to synagogues on the Sabbath because he worships on the Sabbath. 

`Read the story in Acts 16:25–34 about the prison guard who becomes a Christian. What does the prison guard need to do to be saved?`

Paul and Silas answer the prison guard’s question. Paul and Silas tell the prison guard the Good News that we are saved by faith in Jesus alone (Romans 3:28; Galatians 2:16). But we cannot read this story and say that we only need to believe in Jesus to be baptized. Every believer who wants to be baptized needs to learn Bible truth. 

What do we know about the prison guard? Is he a Jew, or someone who wants to join the Jewish religion? Either way, the prison guard must believe in Jesus as Lord and Savior. What if the prison guard is a non-Jew who already knows and worships God the same as Cornelius, Lydia (Acts 16:14), and several other people in Acts? What if the prison guard already went to Paul’s meetings in the city and heard the Good News about Jesus? We do not know all the facts about the prison guard. So, no one should use his story as a reason or an excuse to baptize people right away before they learn Bible teachings first.