---
title:  Paul Travels To Thessalonica And Berea
date:   28/08/2018
---

Paul and Silas were let go from prison. Then they left Philippi (Acts 16:35–40) and went straight to Thessalonica, the capital city of Macedonia.

`Read Acts 17:1–9. As these verses show us, how do the Thessalonian Jews act when they learn that Paul’s preaching among non-Jews is a big success?`

Again, we see Paul looking for a Jewish place of worship where he can share the Good News about Jesus. Many Greeks who loved God deeply and some of the leading women in the city believe Paul’s message. These believers decide to join Paul and Silas to worship God (Acts 17:4). Their joining Paul and Silas seems to mean they start a new group. They meet in someone’s house. That house may belong to a new believer named Jason.  

The Jews of Thessalonica are filled with jealous anger because of the new group. They start a fight in the city. They want to bring Paul and Silas in front of the city’s leaders and blame them for a crime. But the Jews cannot find Paul and Silas anywhere. The Jews in the city take Jason and a few other new believers to the city leaders. The Jews blame Jason and the new believers for protecting troublemakers. The Jews say that Jason and the new believers want to hurt the city’s government. 

`Read about the Berean Jews in Acts 17:10–15. How do the Berean Jews act? Do they act the same as, or different from, the Jews in Thessalonica?` 

The Greek word eugenes (Acts 17:11) used to mean “someone of high birth.” But later, its meaning changed. It now means someone who has an “open mind.” Acts 17:10–15 uses the second meaning. The Jews from Berea are praised because they studied the Bible daily to see if Paul and his group taught the truth. It is easy to become excited about the Good News when we first learn about it. But if we do not study the Bible to understand the truth, then our experience in believing the truth will not grow. 

`When was the last time you studied the Bible the same way as the Bereans?`