---
title:  Paul In Athens
date:   29/08/2018
---

The city of Athens was the center of learning in Greece during New Testament times. The whole city was full of statues of false gods. Marble statues of persons and gods were found everywhere. Many of these statues stood at the entrance to the agora. The agora was a public place in the middle of the city. Paul was very upset about all the statues everywhere. So, he changed what he always did when he first arrived in a city. He did not go first to the synagogue. A synagogue is a Jewish “church” or place of worship. This time Paul did two things: he argued with the Jews and non-Jewish believers in the synagogue. Also, each day Paul argued in public with the Greeks in Athens. (Read Acts 17:15–22.)

The people of Athens were always ready to hear something new. Some thinkers in the city like Paul’s teaching. They invite Paul to preach to the Areopagus. The Areopagus was the group that ruled Athens. In his sermon, Paul does not share verses from the Bible or tell the city’s leaders about the history of God’s goodness to Israel. Paul talked about these things anytime he preached to a group of Jews (read also Acts 13:16–41). But preaching about these things now will not make much sense to a non-Jewish group. So, Paul shares with the Greeks some important Bible truths. Paul uses words in his sermon that the Greeks understand. 

`Read Paul’s sermon to the Areopagus in Acts 17:22–31. What important truths about God, being saved, history, and people does Paul preach to the Greeks?`

Paul’s words seemed silly to this group who worshiped false gods. Their ideas about God were twisted and wrong. We do not know how Paul planned to end his message. He may have been cut off as soon as he said that God will judge the people on the earth (Acts 17:31). This teaching did not match two Greek beliefs: (1) the Greek belief that God had nothing to do at all with the happenings on this earth. And (2) the Greek belief that anyone who dies cannot wake up from the dead. These two beliefs help explain why the Greeks said the Good News about Jesus was silly (1 Corinthians 1:23). So, not many people in Athens became Christians. But a few of the leading people believed, including Dionysius and Damaris (Acts 17:34).