---
title:  Paul In Corinth
date:   30/08/2018
---

Acts 18:1–11 tells us about Paul’s experience in Corinth. He stayed there for one and a half years. There, he met Aquila and Priscilla. They became Paul’s friends for all his life (Romans 16:3; 2 Timothy 4:19). The story shows us that Aquila and Priscilla already were Christians when before they came to Corinth. Many Jews were sent there from Rome by Claudius, the ruler of the Roman Kingdom. The Roman writer Suetonius hints in his book that the Jews were sent away from Rome because of problems happening in the Jewish community in Rome (Claudius 25.4). The problem was happening because Jewish Christians preached the Good News about Jesus to the Jews in Rome. Maybe Aquila and Priscilla took part in preaching the Good News in Rome. Anyway, Paul and Aquila and Priscilla shared the same faith. All three of them were Jews too. Paul and his new friends also were tentmakers. 

`Read about Paul’s work for God in Acts 18:4–17. What happens because of the work Paul does for God in Corinth?`

Silas and Timothy arrived from Macedonia. They brought some money to help support the churches there (2 Corinthians 11:8, 9). This money helped Paul preach and not work to earn money at the same time. Paul wanted to pay for his own bed and food when he preached the Good News in new places. But he also taught that “those [workers] who preach the Good News should get their living [money] from those [people] who hear it” (1 Corinthians 9:14, NLV). 

Many Jews did not like Paul’s message. But some Jews and some non-Jewish worshipers of God believed it. Crispus was one of the new believers. Crispus was the leader of the synagogue. A synagogue is a Jewish “church” or place of worship. Everyone who lived and worked in Crispus’s house also believed the Good News about Jesus. Many Corinthians also believed and were baptized. That upset the Jews in Corinth (Acts 18:12–17). Paul may have planned to leave Corinth. But then God gave Paul a night vision. In the vision, God told Paul to stay (Acts 18:9–11). 

`Paul felt hopeless about his chance to share the Good News with the Jews in Corinth. Paul needed the Lord to support him. How do the Lord’s words to Paul (Acts 18:10) give us hope, too, when we need it most?`