---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   31/08/2018
---

“Do not lose hope when you teach truths that people do not like. Sometimes you may meet no one who accepts them. People who say they are Christians may turn away from these truths too. The same thing happened to Paul and his friends. Some of the people they shared the truth with did not accept it. Workers for Jesus must always keep their eyes open. They must pray. These things help God’s workers to stay safe. God’s workers must keep going. They must have faith and stay brave. They must work always in the name of Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 230, adapted. 

“The history of this earth will end soon. The truth for this time will test us. The people who hear this truth must behave the same as the Bereans. The Bereans read the Bible daily. They wanted to make sure the messages they heard were true. What if we will do the same thing today? Then many more people will be loyal to God’s law. But we see only a small number of people today who are loyal. . . . 

“God will judge each person by the truth he or she learned. The Lord gives His workers the message about being saved. He gives it to them to share with other people. Will these people accept the message, or turn away from it? God holds these people responsible for their choices. Those people who want the truth will carefully study the Bible teachings God gave them. Those people will make sure these teachings match the Bible first before they accept them.”—Page 232, adapted.    

**Discussion questions**

`1.	“People need to study Bible teachings more deeply before they are baptized. There are teachings and important rules about how to live a Christian life. These teachings and important rules should be made clear to believers who are new in the faith.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [special messages] for the Church, volume 6, pages 91, 92. What does Ellen G. White mean?` 

`2.	How can we, together as a church, show the same understanding that Paul had of different ways that people lived? Why must we be willing to meet people where they are? At the same time, how do we do that and continue to stay loyal to God and our beliefs?`