---
title: Don’t Miss It!
date: 10/08/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 22:1–14**

**Don’t Miss It!**

Weddings are events most people don’t want to miss. People often use precious vacation time away from work and spend thousands of dollars on travel to be present when a couple exchanges vows. Close friends are willing to cancel other plans, rearrange their calendars, and reprioritize their budgets just to make it to the wedding. The families of the bride and groom eagerly anticipate making memories with some of the most important people in their lives. Wedding attendees endure long delays, inclement weather, last-minute changes, and other inconveniences so long as they can be there for the special day. Friends who are unable to make it to the wedding send nice gifts and beautiful cards to show their appreciation for the new couple. How people respond to wedding invitations shows how much or little they value the relationship.

In the parable we’ll be exploring this week, we read about an invitation to attend the wedding of a mighty king’s son. Despite an incredibly generous invitation, many refused to attend the wedding. Not only was it challenging to convince people to attend, but one of the attendees had no interest in wearing the wedding garment provided for the guests. This parable is a wake-up call. We are all invited to be part of something incredibly beautiful, and we shouldn’t want to miss a single moment. We will never receive an invitation more important than Christ’s invitation to His people.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 22:1–14 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 8–14. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `