---
title: The Invitation
date: 11/08/2024
---

#### inGest

The parable of the wedding feast consists of two parts. The first describes the wedding invitation and the results of this invitation being rejected, and the second deals with the man who attended the wedding but refused to wear the wedding garment.

By portraying people who refused an important wedding invitation, Jesus illustrated the privilege the historic nation of Israel had forfeited. They were offered a front-row seat to see what God wanted to do for the world through them. Sadly, as the Old Testament reports, God’s chosen people often rejected the invitation of mercy sent to them. In the parable, the messengers of the king were ignored, ridiculed, or killed, reflecting how the prophets who had been sent to Israel were treated.

In first-century culture, a wedding invitation practically obligated the recipient to attend. In addition to that, we are not talking about a common wedding but a royal one. By not coming to the wedding, a person would be undermining the king’s authority, which would be regarded as treason. The story intensifies as a second invitation was sent out. The king gave his guests a second chance and extended another gracious invitation to an indifferent people. This time, the message stated everything had been made ready. The king was waiting.

Scripture tells the story of God doing everything possible to connect with His chosen people. All provision for humanity to be saved eternally has been made available, but very few appreciate what God (the King) and Jesus (the Son) have done. The reactions in the parable range from indifference to outright hostility. Some who extend the gracious invitation are killed. History is marked by the blood of many martyrs who simply invited people to the greatest wedding: the wedding between Christ and His people.

The parable includes a prophetic element; Jesus described the destruction of the city belonging to those who refused the invitation and killed the king’s servants. The city of Jerusalem was destroyed in A.D. 70 after the Jews had killed Jesus and persecuted His followers.

A third invitation was extended, but this one isn’t limited to a specific group of chosen people. When Jesus spoke this parable, He knew the gospel would soon go to the Gentiles. As we look back at history, we see how the gospel invitation has gone into all the world. Today, the invitation is still being repeated around the world. We are all invited to the wedding between Jesus, the Bridegroom, and His people, the bride. It’s a wedding you don’t want to miss!

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What different emotions did the king feel during the various stages of this story?`

`What do you think Jesus was seeking to communicate to those listening to this parable?`