---
title: Christ’s Robe of Righteousness
date: 12/08/2024
---

#### inTerpret

The second part of the parable describes a man without a wedding garment. The king himself provided the wedding garment, but the man refused to wear it, choosing to wear his own garments instead. Those who accepted the wedding garment the king provided acknowledged their need for something better. The man who refused the wedding garment clung to his own goodness. “When the king came in to view the guests, the real character of all was revealed. For every guest at the feast there had been provided a wedding garment. This garment was a gift from the king. By wearing it the guests showed their respect for the giver of the feast” (Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons [1900], 309).

By refusing the king’s garment, this guest disrespected the king and revealed an attitude of arrogance. He knew his actions were completely unacceptable. When confronted, the man was speechless. He had no logical excuse for his actions. The parable exposes the danger of being self-reliant when it comes to our salvation. The scribes and Pharisees were confident in their own righteousness and felt no need for Jesus. Pious people tend to rely on their own religious routines and feel no need for God’s righteousness.

The parable reveals the work of judgment. Scripture tells us that before Jesus’ second coming, God will conduct a process of judgment to reveal who will inherit God’s kingdom (Rev. 14:7). Those who wear the wedding garment have accepted and applied the gospel of Jesus in their lives. “This robe, woven in the loom of heaven, has in it not one thread of human devising. Christ in His humanity wrought out a perfect character, and this character He offers to impart to us.... We live His life. This is what it means to be clothed with the garment of His righteousness” (White, Christ’s Object Lessons [1900], 311). The robe that was offered to the guests represents Christ’s robe of righteousness that covers the sins of all who give their lives to Him.

The concept of the wedding garment spans the entire scriptural narrative. In the beginning, Adam and Eve were clothed in garments of light, but after they sinned, they realized they were naked. They hid themselves and sewed together fig leaves for clothes. This symbolized righteousness by their own works. Garments of their own making were not approved, so God provided leather garments for them by taking the life of an animal (Gen. 3:21). This pointed to the great sacrifice that was needed to “clothe” humanity. The plan of redemption is to clothe us again. The prophet Isaiah wrote, “He has clothed me with the garments of salvation, He has covered me with the robe of righteousness” (Isa. 61:10). Receiving the wedding garment means receiving Christ’s righteousness—His character that He seeks to live out in us. Jesus wants to cover our past with His righteousness (justification) and live in us and through us in the future (sanctification). Only then can we be clothed in His wedding garment.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why can it be hard to accept that we can never earn our way to heaven?`