---
title: Our Cornerstone and Bridegroom
date: 14/08/2024
---

#### inVite

The parable of the wedding feast is the culmination of a closely connected series of parables. Matthew records the parable of the two sons and the parable of the wicked vinedressers right before the story of the wedding feast. All three parables were taught in the religious leaders’ presence. Jesus revealed how they were rejecting Him as the promised Messiah. These encounters happened only days before Christ’s crucifixion. The scribes and Pharisees were determined to discredit and remove Him. Through these parables, Jesus pressed home a final call for them to repent and turn around.

The parable of the two sons (Matt. 21:28–32) illustrated the religious leaders’ high profession of faith and lack of corresponding works. They said one thing and did another. The discontinuity between words and actions exposed the extreme hollowness of their spiritual facade. This story was an invitation to humble themselves and carefully consider their condition.

The parable of the wicked vinedressers (Matt. 21:33–46) represents Israel’s history. Jesus described a vineyard leased to vinedressers by the landowner. When the landowner sent servants to receive the fruit, they were beaten, stoned, and killed. The landowner eventually sent his son, thinking the vinedressers would respect him, but he, too, was killed. We don’t have to wonder what this is all pointing to. This is the central story of Scripture, and the final part of the parable was about to be fulfilled. Jesus, the Son, would soon give His life for His people. Through this parable, Jesus challenged His hearers to contemplate seriously what they were about to do. He warned that the builders had rejected the Chief Cornerstone (Matt. 21:42). This cornerstone was the most essential part of the temple foundation, for the entire building relied on its strength. If Jesus was rejected as the Messiah, the temple had no value. Later, Peter wrote about Jesus as the Chief Cornerstone: “Coming to Him as to a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God and precious, you also, as living stones, are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ” (1 Pet. 2:4, 5). Jesus is our Cornerstone today, and our lives are to be founded on Him.

The parable of the wedding feast also reveals the central role of Christ in reconciling people to God. Both the Old and New Testaments depict God’s people as His bride. Hosea, a prophet whose life is recorded in the Old Testament, served as a living parable that portrayed God’s pursuit of His wayward bride. The everlasting gospel is a love story that culminates in a wedding, with Jesus, the Son of the King, as the Bridegroom. The last book of the Bible pictures this great celebration between God and His people: “Blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb!” (Rev. 19:9). This biblical picture communicates the depth of the relationship Jesus longs to have with us. Marriage brings two people together as they share the joys and challenges of life. Jesus wants to be our life companion, guiding us to the place He has prepared for us.

`What do you think it means for Jesus to be our Cornerstone and Bridegroom in our everyday lives?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you personally through the text of the week?`

`Prayer Response:`
