---
title:  The Supreme Judge
date:  27/10/2025
---

`Read Genesis 18:25; Psalm 7:11; Psalm 50:6; Psalm 82:1; Psalm 96:10; and 2 Timothy 4:1, 8. What are these verses saying about God’s moral character? How does the role of God as the Judge of the universe help us understand the question of divine war?`

The holiness of God’s character means that He cannot tolerate sin. He is patient. However, sin must reap its final consequence, which is death (Rom. 6:23). Yahweh declared war against sin, regardless of where it was found, whether in Israel or among the Canaanites. Israel was not sanctified through participating in holy wars any more than other nations were (Deut. 9:4, 5; Deut. 12:29, 30), even when they became the means of Yahweh’s judgment against His chosen nation. Different from other ancient Near Eastern people, the Israelites experienced the reversal of holy war when God did not fight for them but against them, allowing their enemies to oppress them (compare with Joshua 7).

The whole concept of holy war can be understood only if it is seen in the light of God’s activity as judge. When seen this way, Israel’s wars of conquest take on a completely different character. In contrast to the imperialistic wars of self-aggrandizement, so common in the ancient world (and ours today), Israel’s wars were not meant to accomplish glory for themselves but to establish God’s justice and peace in the land. Therefore, at the heart of understanding the concept of holy war stands the concept of God’s rule and sovereignty, which are at stake in the imagery of God as warrior, just as they are in the imagery of God as king or as judge.

Yahweh as warrior is the One who, as a judge, is committed to implementing, stabilizing, and maintaining the rule of the law, which is the reflection of His character. The image of God as warrior, similar to that of judge and king, asserts that Yahweh will not tolerate rebellion against His established order forever. Therefore, one can affirm that the goal of Yahweh’s activity is never war itself, or victory itself, but the reestablishment of justice and peace. Ultimately, to judge and to wage war, or to deliver justice, are the same thing if God is the subject of the action.

`Reflect on God as a righteous judge who cannot be bribed nor influenced by partiality. How is a God who will not endlessly tolerate sin, oppression, the suffering of the innocent, and the exploitation of the oppressed part and parcel of the gospel?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We have a powerful enemy, and not only does he hate every human being made in the image of God, but with bitterest enmity he hates God and His only-begotten Son Jesus Christ. When men give themselves over to be the slaves of Satan, he does not manifest the enmity toward them which he does to those who bear the name of Christ, and give themselves to the service of God. He hates them with a deadly hatred. He knows that he can grieve Jesus by bringing them under the power of his deceptions, by injuring them, by weaken­ing their faith, by making them incapable of doing God service as they are required to serve under their Captain Jesus Christ. Satan will permit those to have a degree of rest who are bound as slaves to his chariot, for they are his willing captives; but his enmity is aroused when the message of mercy reaches his bondslaves, and they seek to wrench themselves away from his power, that they may follow the true Shepherd. Then it is that he seeks to bind them with additional chains to hold them in their captivity. The conflict between the soul and Satan begins when the captive begins to tug at the chain, and longs to be free; for it is then that the human agent begins to co-operate with heavenly intelligences, when faith takes hold on Christ. Then it is that the Stronger than the strong man armed, is the helper of the soul, and the poor captive is strengthened by the Holy Spirit to obtain his freedom.\
God has a deep and earnest love for every member of the human family; not one is forgotten, not one is left helpless and deceived to be overcome by the enemy. And if those who have enlisted in the army of Christ will put on the whole armor of God, and wear it, they will be proof against all the assaults of the enemy. Those who really desire to be taught of God, and to walk in His way, have the sure promise that if they feel their lack of wisdom and ask of God, He will give liberally, and upbraid not. The apostle says, “Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways.” God is behind every promise, and we cannot dishonor Him more than by questioning and hesitating, by asking and not believing, and then by talking doubt. If you do not immediately receive what you have asked for, will you go on in sullenness and unbelief? Believe; believe that God will do just what He has promised. Keep your prayers ascending, and watch, work, and wait. Fight the good fight of faith. Say to your heart, “God has invited me to come. He has heard my prayer. He has pledged His word that he will receive me, and He will fulfil His promise. I can trust God; for He so loved me that He gave His only-begotten Son to die for me. The Son of God is my Redeemer.” “Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.” “If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask Him?”—Fundamentals of Christian Education, pp. 299, 300.