---
title:  The Prince of Peace
date:  30/10/2025
---

`How do the following texts describe the future that God had envisioned for His people? Isa. 9:6, Isa. 11:1–5, Isa. 60:17, Hos. 2:18, Mic. 4:3.`

Although the main focus of this week’s lesson has constituted the divinely commanded and assisted wars of the Old Testament, we need to mention the presence of another equally significant theme of the Old Testament’s prophetic writings: the future vision of the peaceful Messianic era. The Messiah is depicted as the “Prince of Peace” (Isa. 9:6). He will usher in a kingdom dominated by peace, where the lion and the lamb will graze together (Isa. 11:1–8), in which there will be no destruction or hurt (Isa. 11:9), and where peace will rule (Isa. 60:17) and flow like a river (Isa. 66:12).

`Read 2 Kings 6:16–23. What insights does this story provide into the deeper purposes of God for His people and humanity?`

Consider the story of the feeding of the Syrian army at the initiative of Elisha. Instead of massacring them (2 Kings 6:22), he showcased to them the supreme ideal, peace, which has always been God’s desire for His people. It is interesting to observe that Elisha fully is aware of the superiority of the invisible army that surrounds the enemy (2 Kings 6:17). As much as God is involved in a cosmic conflict that also has affected our planet, the final goal of redemption is not a perpetual conflict or even an eternal subjugation of the enemy in a state of slavery but, instead, everlasting peace. As violence breeds violence (Matt. 26:52), peace engenders peace. The story concludes by stating that the “Syrians did not come again on raids into the land of Israel” (2 Kings 6:23, ESV).

`Think about all the ways we can, by seeking to emulate Jesus, be agents of peace. What about your own life right now? In what ways, in whatever conflict you might be facing, could you be an agent of peace instead of conflict?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Wherever the power of intellect, of authority, or of force is employed, and love is not manifestly present, the affections and will of those whom we seek to reach assume a defensive, repelling position, and their strength of resistance is increased. Jesus was the Prince of Peace. He came into the world to bring resistance and authority into subjection to Himself. Wisdom and strength He could command, but the means He employed with which to overcome evil were the wisdom and strength of love. . . .\
“Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.” Blessed results would appear as the fruit of such a course. “With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.” Here are strong motives which should constrain us to love one ­another with a pure heart, fervently. Christ is our example. He went about doing good. He lived to bless others. Love beautified and ennobled all his actions. We are not commanded to do to ourselves what we wish others to do unto us; we are to do unto others what we wish them to do to us under like circumstances. The measure we mete is always measured to us again. Pure love is simple in its operations, and is distinct from any other principle of action. . . . Love should be cherished and cultivated, for its influence is divine.\
In Jesus you may love with fervor, with earnestness. This love may increase in depth and expand without limit. . . . Love to God will ensure love to your neighbor, and you will engage in the duties of life with a deep, unselfish interest. Pure principles should underlie your actions. Inward peace will bring even your thoughts into a healthful channel. . . .\
Peace of mind, which comes from pure and holy motives and actions, will give free and vigorous spring to all the organs of the body. Inward peace and a conscience void of offense toward God will quicken and invigorate the intellect like dew distilled upon the tender plants. . . . The meditations are pleasing because they are sanctified. The serenity of mind which you may possess will bless all with whom you associate. This peace and calmness will, in time, become natural, and will reflect its precious rays upon all around you, to be again reflected upon you.\
The more you taste this heavenly peace and quietude of mind, the more it will increase. It is an animated, living pleasure which does not throw all the moral energies into a stupor, but awakens them to increased activity. Perfect peace is an attitude of heaven which angels possess.—Lift Him Up, p. 94.