---
title:  Further Thought
date:  31/10/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Fall of Jericho,” pp. 491–493, in _Patriarchs and Prophets_.

As with everything in the Bible, knowing the context and the background is crucial. As we have seen, the cosmic conflict and the motif of God as judge are crucial in understanding these wars against the Canaanites.

“God is slow to anger. He gave the wicked nations a time of probation that they might become acquainted with Him and His character. According to the light given was their condemnation for refusing to receive the light and choosing their own ways rather than God’s ways. God gave the reason why He did not at once dispossess the Canaanites. The iniquity of the Amorites was not full. Through their iniquity they were gradually bringing themselves to the point where God’s forbearance could no longer be exercised and they would be exterminated. Until the point was reached and their iniquity was full, the vengeance of God would be delayed. All nations had a period of probation. Those who made void God’s law would advance from one degree of wickedness to another. Children would inherit the rebellious spirit of their parents and do worse than their fathers before them until God’s wrath would fall upon them. The punishment was not less because deferred.”—Ellen G. White Comments, _The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 2_, p. 1005.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Discuss the implications of God's being our judge as well as the Supreme Judge of the universe. Why do you think the fact that God is the Judge is foundational to the gospel and to our salvation?`

`How does the case of the Canaanites offer us a window into God’s patience and justice? How could we reflect God’s character in the way we deal with our fellow human beings?`

`Think about the fundamental nature of free will. Why do you think God respects our freedom of choice? How are love and freedom of choice related to each another?`

`The Old Testament contains many stories of war and conflict, but ultimately, it forecasts a vision of peace. What role should Christians play in establishing peace in their environment?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Upward Look_, “Cast Your Burdens on Jesus,” November 17, p. 335.\
_Christ Triumphant_, “Truth Will Gain Victory Eventually,” March 27, p. 93.