---
title:  The Flood
date:  16/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 6:13–7:10; 2 Peter 2:5–9; Genesis 8:1; Psalm 106:4; Genesis 9:8–17.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Remember how it was in the days of Noah. It will be the same when the Son of Man comes’ ” (Matthew 24:37, NIrV).

“THE LORD SAW that the people on the earth were very evil. He saw that they thought only about evil things all the time” (Genesis 6:5, ERV). The verb “saw” helps us remember that the Lord made the earth in six days. After each day, the Lord “saw” that everything He made was “tov.” As you will remember, “tov” is the Hebrew word for “good.” But what does God see now in Genesis 6? God sees only “ra,’” or evil (Genesis 6:5). God is “sorry” that He made humans because they are filled only with “ra’” (Genesis 6:5, 6).

Yes, God is sorry. But He also wants to save humans. The Hebrew word for “sorry” in Genesis 6:6 is “nakham.” This word shows us that God will punish sin. “Nakham” looks much the same as the name “Noah,” which is “Noakh” in the Hebrew language. “Noah” means “comfort” (Genesis 5:29). The name “Noah” and the word “sorry” show us that God will do two things: He will punish humans, and, at the same time, He will show them mercy. Yes, God is sorry He made humans. So, He will punish them with the Flood. At the same time, God promises to comfort Noah and his family. God will show them mercy. He will keep them safe in the big boat.

We already saw that the sons of Cain and the sons of Seth were different. Now God shows us that this same separation continues between Noah and the rest of humans.