---
title:  Noah Gets Ready For The Flood 
date:  17/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story in Genesis 6:13–7:10. What lesson can we learn about early human history from this surprising story?`

Noah is a prophet. A prophet is a special messenger from God. Noah is a prophet the same as Daniel. Both men preach about the end of human history.

God commands Noah to build an ark or boat to keep him and his family safe from the coming Flood. The Hebrew word for “ark” or “boat” is “tevah” (Genesis 6:14). Later, Moses uses this same word to show us the basket that his mother hides him in when he is a baby (Exodus 2:3). God saves baby Moses in this basket so that Moses can grow up and save Israel. Many Bible thinkers also compare the ark that Noah builds to another ark: the ark of the agreement (Exodus 25:10). Noah makes the ark or boat to save his family and the animals. In the same way, the ark of the agreement shows us that God will save His people (Exodus 25:22).

So, God commands Noah to get ready for the Flood by building the boat. “Noah did everything God commanded him” (Genesis 6:22, ERV). The word written as “did” is “ ‘asah” in the Hebrew language. The verb “did” is the answer of Noah to the command of God to “make” (Genesis 6:14–16). Moses writes this verb five times in Genesis 6:14–16. The verbs “did” and “make” show us that Noah completely obeys God. Noah does everything that God asks him to do.

“God shows Noah the plan for the ark. God tells Noah how big to build the ark and how to make every part of the ark, too. The ark is very strong. It will not sink in the Flood. No human mind is wise enough to design the ark. God comes up with the plan. Noah is the master builder.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 92, adapted.

Noah obeys God. His obedience is part of the saving plan of God. God saves Noah because Noah has faith to do everything that God asks him (read Hebrews 11:7). Noah is an early example of faith that shows itself by obedience. This faith is the only faith that matters (James 2:20).

`Why was only the family of Noah saved from the Flood? For the answer, read 2 Peter 2:5–9. What lessons can we learn from the Noah story? Why must we warn people that we live in the time when God will judge all the people on the earth?`