---
title:  The Flood 
date:  18/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw yesterday, the verb “ ‘asah” means to “make.” This verb shows us the actions of Noah. “ ‘Asah” is also an important word in the story about how God makes the skies and the earth (Genesis 1:7, 16, 25, 26, 31; Genesis 2:2). The actions of Noah are much the same as the actions of God when He makes the skies and the earth. So, what does this connection between the two stories show us? This connection shows us that the Flood is not only about punishment. The Flood also shows us how God wants to save humans.

`Read Genesis 7. Why does this story about the Flood help us remember the story about how God makes the skies and the earth in six days? What lessons can we learn from the connection between these two stories?`

Read the story about the Flood. Then you will see that the Flood story uses many of the same words in Genesis 1–2. Here is a list of words that we see in both stories:

1. “Seven” (Genesis 7:2, 3, 4, 10; compare with Genesis 2:1–3).
2. “Male and female” (Genesis 7:2, 3, 9, 16; compare with Genesis 1:27).
3. “Every kind [type] of animal” (Genesis 7:14, ERV; compare with Genesis 1:11, 12, 21, 24, 25).
4. “Animals,” “birds,” and “everything that crawls on the earth” (Genesis 7:8, 14, 21, 23; compare with Genesis 1:24, 25).
5. “Breath of life” (Genesis 7:15, 22; compare with Genesis 2:7).

So, these words show us that the Flood story is much the same as the Genesis 1–2 story. The Genesis 1–2 story helps us see that the God who makes everything is the same God who also has the power to destroy life (Deuteronomy 32:39). The list of words also is a message about hope: God will use the Flood to make everything new again on earth.

The Flood waters show us that God is reversing everything He did in Genesis 1. In Genesis 1:7, God separates the waters above the sky from the waters below the sky. In the Flood, God brings the waters back together. Then they explode and cause the Flood (Genesis 7:11).

`What must we let God destroy inside our hearts before He can give us new life? For the answer, read Romans 6:1–6.`