---
title:  The Flood Ends 
date:  19/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Genesis 7:22–24 shows us that the Flood “destroyed every living thing on the earth” (Genesis 7:23, ERV). We also learn that the Flood is worldwide. “The water covered the earth for 150 days” (Genesis 7:24, NLV). At this time, God “showed concern” (Genesis 8:1) for Noah, and “remembered him” (Genesis 8:1, ERV). These words are written in the middle of the story about the Flood. So, we see that this idea is the most important part of the story.

`What does it mean that God “remembered” Noah (Genesis 8:1)?`

The word written as “remember” in Genesis 8:1 comes from the Hebrew verb “zakhar.” “Zakhar” shows us that God does not forget about Noah. “Zakhar” means more than just thinking about someone or something. “Zakhar” shows us that God will keep His promise to save (read Genesis 19:29). In the Flood story, the words “God remembered” show us that God stops the Flood (Genesis 8:2). So, Noah can soon leave the boat (Genesis 8:16).

Before God commands Noah to leave, Noah does a test. First, Noah sends a raven and then a dove to check on the water and see how high it is on the earth. When the dove does not come back, Noah knows “that the ground was dry” (Genesis 8:13, ERV). Then he opens a window to look out of the boat.

We can learn important lessons from the behavior of Noah. Noah waits for God to show Him what to do next. At the same time, Noah sends out the birds. Faith does not mean that we cannot see if what we learned is correct.

Do you see that Noah does not leave the boat until God tells him to do so (Genesis 8:15–19)? Noah knows that it is safe to leave. But Noah waits for permission from God before he steps out of the boat. “Noah entered the boat at the command of the Lord. Now, Noah waited for special permission from God to leave the boat. . . . Finally, an angel came from heaven. The angel opened the big, heavy door. Then the angel told Noah and his family to leave the boat and take with them every living thing.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 105, adapted.

`What do the words “God remembers” mean? For the answer, read Genesis 8:1; Genesis 19:29 and Psalm 106:4. How has God shown you that He “remembers” you?`