---
title:  'The Agreement: Part 1'
date:  20/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Now the time comes for God to keep His promise. Before the Flood, God told Noah, “ ‘I will make a special agreement with you. You, your wife, your sons, and their wives will all go into the boat’ ” (Genesis 6:18, ERV). This promise is completely different from the announcement of God in Genesis 6:17. In Genesis 6:17, God announces that He will destroy life. But in Genesis 6:18, God promises Noah that He will save him.

`What does Noah do first when he steps out of the boat? Why does Noah do this thing before he does anything else? For the answers, read Genesis 8:20.`

After God makes Adam and Eve and everything else, the couple worship God on the Sabbath. In the same way, Noah worships God when he steps out of the boat. But Noah does not worship God in the same way that Adam and Eve do. Adam and Eve worship God face-to-face. But Noah must kill an animal and offer it to a God he cannot see. For the first time in the Bible, we read about an altar. Noah gives God a burnt offering, or “ ‘olah,” in the Hebrew language. This offering shows us that Noah is thankful to God, who saved him from the Flood (compare with Numbers 15:1–11).

`How did the Flood change what humans ate? What important rules does God give humans about food? For the answer, read Genesis 9:2–4.`

After the Flood, plant food was destroyed. So, God allowed humans to eat animals. This permission caused a big change between humans and animals. In the Garden of Eden, humans and animals ate the same plant food. They did not try to kill each other for food. After the Flood, humans started to hunt and eat animals. So, animals started to fear humans (Genesis 9:2).

God gave humans two food rules after the Flood. First, humans must eat only clean animals (read Genesis 8:19, 20; compare with Genesis 1:21, 24). The second rule was a new rule. Humans must not eat any animal blood (Genesis 9:4).