---
title:  'The Agreement: Part 2'
date:  21/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God promises to “ ‘never again destroy every living thing on the earth’ ” (Genesis 8:21, ERV). What does this promise show us about God? God also blesses Noah (Genesis 9:1). How does this blessing show us that God will keep His promise? For the answers, read Genesis 8:21–9:1.

The promise of God shows us His loving favor and mercy. God promises, “ ‘As long as the earth continues, there will always be a time for planting and a time for harvest’ ” (Genesis 8:22, ERV). God does not make this promise because of anything good in humans. God knows that people are evil (Genesis 8:21).

Genesis 9:8–17 shows us the blessing from God. This blessing helps us remember when God blessed everything He made and then blessed the Sabbath, too (Genesis 1:22, 28; Genesis 2:3). This connection between the Sabbath and the rainbow in Genesis 9 helps us see an important Bible truth. The Lord gives humans a second chance to start over after the Flood.

`What does the rainbow show us? For the answer, read Genesis 9:8–17. How does this “proof of the agreement” (Genesis 9:13, ERV) show us the Sabbath?`

Do you see the words “make My agreement” and “the agreement I have made” in Genesis 9:9, 11, 17? These words show us that God keeps the promise He made to Noah in Genesis 6:18. We also see the word “agreement” is written 7 times in Genesis 9:8–17. That number, of course, helps us remember the seventh-day Sabbath. Both the rainbow and the Sabbath are proof of the agreement (Genesis 9:13, 14, 16; compare with Exodus 31:12–17). Also, both the Sabbath and the promise of the rainbow are for everyone on the earth. The Sabbath invites everyone to worship the God who made them. In the same way, the rainbow is for everyone everywhere, too. The rainbow is a promise that God will not destroy the earth with a worldwide flood again.

`Next time you see a rainbow, think about all of the promises that God gives us. Why can we trust these promises? How does the rainbow show us that we can trust God to keep His promises, for sure?`