---
title:  Further Thought
date:  22/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Compare the people who lived before the Flood to the people in our time. When we compare these two groups, we can learn many important lessons. For sure, human evil is not new. Many of the same things that happened back then also happen now.

“The people who lived before the Flood did much evil. God was forced to punish their sins. These same sins are happening in our own day. Humans no longer respect or honor God in their hearts. Men hate the law of God or do not care about it at all. The people who lived before the Flood cared only about the things on this earth. The people who are alive today are no different. . . . God did not judge the people who lived in the time before the Flood because they ate and drank. . . . God judged these people because they were not thankful for everything that He gave them. The people also did whatever they wanted to do. By this evil behavior, they ruined their own minds and hearts. They ruined the gifts God gave them. Marriage was one of the first gifts that God gave to humans. The gift of marriage was very beautiful. But the people who lived before the Flood did not respect marriage as they should. They got married for all the wrong reasons. Sex became the most important reason for marriage. Today, we see many of these same sins in our own time. People take the good gifts of God and put them to a wrong use. . . . People today lie, cheat, and steal. Both the rich and the poor are guilty of these crimes. The news today is filled with reports of killings. . . . Everywhere we see that people fight against their own governments. These fights fill everyone on the earth with fear. The fights show that people on the earth have no self-control. These people are filled with anger. They hate the laws of their lands. Soon their anger will fill the whole earth and make people very sad and afraid. The Bible gives us a picture of the people who lived before the Flood to show us our modern times. We are becoming the same as the people who lived before the Flood. Even now in Christian lands, people do awful crimes. These crimes are as evil as the crimes that caused God to destroy the sinners who lived before the Flood.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 101, 102, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How are the people in our time the same as the people who lived before the Flood? What do these things show us about the mercy of God and how much He wants to save us?`

`Some people say there was no worldwide Flood. Why is this idea wrong?`