---
title:  The Priority of the Promise
date:   29/07/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “For if the inheritance comes by the law, it no longer comes by promise; but God gave it to Abraham by a promise” (Gal. 3:18, ESV).

**Introduction**: Gal. 3:18

**Promises to Keep**

It’s a well-known story. The year was 1942. War raged in the Pacific. General Douglas MacArthur was commander of the United States armed forces intheFarEast,andthingswerenotgoinghis way.TheJapanesehadinvaded the Philippines in December of 1941. American and Filipino troops had been forced to withdraw to Bataan, where they were soon under siege.

**We have relied on His faithfulness in the past, and we can trust His faithfulness in the future.**

MacArthur was ordered to abandon the local island fortress where he was operating and living with his family and flee to Australia. There MacArthur hoped to gather relief forces he could bring back to retake the Philippines. He was deeply disappointed to find far fewer Allied troops than he had hoped, making the immediate retaking of the Philippines impossible. He promptly released a statement to the press containing his now famous public promise: “I shall return.”

MacArthur would continue to repeat that promise for a long two-and-a-half years, as war raged and US military leadership focused on other goals. The men left behind in the Philippines were captured and endured the Bataan Death March, in which at least 7,000 died. Finally on October 20, 1944, MacArthur waded ashore behind his invasion force and announced in a radio broadcast, “People of the Philippines, I have returned!”*

The wait was certainly much longer than they had hoped. Surely some of those left lost hope, but I would bet most of those men knew General MacArthur would keep his promise.Why? Because they knew him.They had relied on his leadership through long, hard battles, and they understood his character.

Thousands of years ago, God made a promise to Abraham: “I will indeed bless you and make your offspring as numerous as the stars of the sky and the sand of the seashore. . . . And all the nations of the earth will be blessed by your offspring because you have obeyed My command” (Gen. 22:17, 18, HCSB). Paul says in Galatians 3 that the promise to Abraham was fulfilled in Christ and that those who believe are Abraham’s children.

How do we have faith in God’s promises? By knowing Him.We have relied on His faithfulness in the past, and we can trust His faithfulness in the future. Above all, we can trust that even today, His promise to Abraham holds. Our inheritance as Abraham’s children is secure, because God promised it would be.

<sup>* “MacArthur Leaves Corregidor,” History.com, accessed Apr. 17, 2016, http://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/macarthur-leaves-corregidor.</sup>

Jolene Sharp, Nashville, Tennessee, USA