---
title:  Signed, Sealed, and Committed
date:   30/07/2017
---

**Evidence**: Gen. 9:11–17; 12:1–3; 15:9–18; 17:1–8; Matt. 5:17, 18; Rom. 4:13; Gal. 3:7, 16–19

The Hebrew word for covenant is b’rit, which means “treaty” or “pact.” Animals were used to signify the binding agreement between the two parties. The animals were killed, cut in half, and then laid on the ground opposite each otherwitha pathin themiddle.Thosemakingthepact wouldwalk through the animal halves to demonstrate their willingness to uphold the covenant. Thus b’rit was synonymous with the shedding of blood.1

**God alone signed the covenant.**

In Genesis 15, God, in the symbol of a smoking firepot with a blazing torch, walks the path between the animals and seals the covenant, promising Abram the land from the river of Egypt to the Euphrates.

Of the many types of covenants throughout the Bible, there are two that are special: conditional and unconditional. If both parties had to do something related to the covenant, it was considered conditional.If just one party promised to do something for another regardless of the other’s actions, it was an unconditional covenant.2 When God called Abram out of his country in Genesis 12, it was a conditional promise.IfAbram went, God would bless him.God’s promise to send the Messiah through the line of David was an unconditional covenant. David didn’t have to do a thing for God to keep His promise.

The Ten Commandments are referred to as the tablets of the covenant in Hebrew.3 The law (as the commandments are also known) is related to the covenant. They are of the covenant. The two are not at opposite ends of a spectrum, one based on faith and the other works, but are similar. Christ Himself says He came to fulfill the law and the prophets. In other words, He came to fulfill theTen Commandments and/or the covenant.This unconditional covenant that God made with His people needed to be sealed with the shedding of blood. Thus Christ’s death was a sealing of the covenant symbolizing God upholding His side of the agreement. God alone signed the covenant.

**React**

`1. Is faith something you have to do (i.e., an action) to receive the promised covenant? Why, or why not?`

`2. What if salvation was not an unconditional covenant? Would it still hold the same value and be as appealing?`

<sup>1. “Brit–Covenant,” Hebrew4Christians.com, accessed May 12, 2016, http://www.hebrew4christians.com/Glossary/Word_of_the_Week/Archived/Brit/brit.html.</sup>

<sup>2. “What Are the Different Covenants in the Bible?” Compellingtruth.org, accessed May 12, 2016, http://www.compellingtruth.org/covenants-in-the-Bible.html. 3. “Brit–Covenant,” Hebrew4Christians.com. Kristi Rich, Wenatchee, Washington, USA</sup>