---
title:  'The Unchanging God: Reached by Faith, Not Works'
date:   31/07/2017
---

**Logos**: Gen. 9:11–17; 15:6; 22:17, 18; Matt. 5:17, 18; Rom. 3:20; 4:15; 5:20; Gal. 2:16

**The Purpose of the Law** (Rom. 3:20; 4:15; 5:20)

When we are ignorant of the law (i.e., any particular part of it), we are unaware of what it is to break the law. Because the Lord wants none of us to be lost, He has put in place a mechanism for us to know what sin is. He wrote down His law for us at Mount Sinai. This law has been preserved down to our time in God’s Holy Scriptures, and it works as a warning system that tells us what sin looks like in our own lives. Paul explains this in Romans 3:20, writing, “For by the law is the knowledge of sin” (NKJV). To be clear, Paul doesn’t say the law in any way provides salvation for us. He states in Romans 4:15 that the consequence of breaking the law is God’s wrath, again confirming that “where there is no law there is no transgression” (NKJV). If the law were the only thing God did for us, we’d be lost, but thankfully it is part of a twofold system, the second part having to do with both faith and His saving grace. In Romans 5:20, Paul solidifies his understanding of the law’s purpose in exposing sin, while mentioning the only thing that can redeem us, His sacrificial grace: “Moreover the law entered that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace abounded much more” (NKJV). Grace and faith in God’s promise share a much more exciting role in our lives, should we decide to follow Christ.

**Faith in the promise makes the difference between life and death.**

**The Rescue His Promise Provides** (Gen. 15:6; 22:17, 18)

God promises many times in Scripture that He’ll save us from our sins, from the second death into eternal life with Him. He details this promise to Abraham in Genesis 22, declaring in part that “your descendants shall possess the gate of their enemies. In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have obeyed My voice” (verses 17, 18, NKJV). Those who accept this promise will one day be given the victory over their enemies.They will enter into the joy of eternity with the One who promised their delivery, Jesus Christ. The promise isn’t claimed by keeping the law or any other action we can take. The Lord holds this promise out to us, asking we claim it not by a great feat (keeping the law) but by simple belief in Him—called faith. “Then He brought [Abraham] outside and said, ‘Look now toward heaven, and count the stars if you are able to number them.’ And He said to him,‘So shall your descendants be.’ And he believed in the Lord, and He accounted it to him for righteousness” (Gen. 15:5, 6, NKJV). To believe in the Lord sounds simple enough, yet it requires strong faith, a belief on the Lord Jesus Christ.

**Faith in Jesus Christ** (Gal. 2:16)

Faith in the promise makes the difference between life and death. Since it doesn’t require an easy checklist-type activity for us to do, like keeping the law, it’s usually a harder concept to grasp. Paul clearly draws the line between having faith in the promise and keeping the law, declaring the one that saves us. “Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law but by faith in Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Christ Jesus, that we might be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law; for by the works of the law no flesh shall be justified”(Gal.2:16, NKJV).The works involved in keeping the law are diminished because, as said before, the law is meant to be an indicator of sins. Our giving up control and putting our faith in the Lord, believing what He says, brings us into an eternal relationship with Jesus Christ.

**Trust Our Unchanging Lord** (Gen. 9:11–17; Matt. 5:17, 18)

Does God change His word? His mind? Paul states clearly that He doesn’t. What does change, often unpredictably, are our expectations. In one text, Paul dispels the notion that Jesus wanted to change God’s Word by doing away with His law, emphasizing without question the immutable condition of His Word. “ ‘Do not think that I came to destroy the Law or the Prophets. I did not come to destroy but to fulfill. For assuredly, I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled’ ” (Matt. 5:17, 18, NKJV). Not only is this promise to Abraham still applicable to us today but so is another promise in Genesis 9. “I set My rainbow in the cloud, and it shall be for the sign of the covenant between Me and the earth. . . . The waters shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh. The rainbow shall be in the cloud, and I will . . . remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth” (Gen. 9:13, 15, 16, NKJV). When God promised this to Noah, He created a visible sign, witnessing to all generations that He is unchanging.The rainbow is a perfect representation of God’s sure Word. God asks us that we have faith in Him, that we believe on Him, claiming His promises.

**React**

`1. Considering our human nature, which is harder—keeping the law or having faith?`

`2. If the law is meant to point out sin, and God never changes, then why do or why don’t the definitions of sin have any wiggle room for change?`

_Jeremy Vetter, Moscow, Idaho, USA_