---
title:  'God’s Law = God’s Character'
date:   01/08/2017
---

**Testimony**: Gal. 3:15–29

“It had existed by the promise of God; it had been accepted by faith; yet when ratified by Christ, it is called a new covenant. The law of God was the basis of this covenant, which was simply an arrangement for bringing men again into harmony with the divine will, placing them where they could obey God’s law.

“Another compact—called in Scripture the ‘old’ covenant—was formed between God and Israel at Sinai, and was then ratified by the blood of a sacrifice. The Abrahamic covenant, ratified by the blood of Christ, is called the ‘second,’ or ‘new’ covenant, because the blood by which it was sealed was shed after the blood of the first covenant.

**“His life testifies that it is possible for us also to obey the law of God.”**

“But if the Abrahamic covenant contained the promise of redemption, why was another covenant formed at Sinai? In their bondage the people had to a great extent lost the knowledge of the principles of the Abrahamic covenant. In delivering them from Egypt, God sought to reveal His power and mercy, that they might be led to love and trust Him. . . .

“But they had no true conception of the holiness of God, of the exceeding sinfulness of their own hearts, their utter inability, in themselves, to render obedience to God’s law, and their need of a Saviour.”1

“Christ came to vindicate the sacred claims of the law. He came to live a life of obedience to its requirements and thus prove the falsity of the charge made by Satan that it is impossible for man to keep the law of God. As a man He met temptation and overcame in the strength given Him from God. As He went about doing good, healing all who were afflicted by Satan, He made plain to men the character of God’s law and the nature of His service. His life testifies that it is possible for us also to obey the law of God.”2

**React**

`1. God’s law is His character, and Jesus is testimony that we, too, can keep God’s law. What can you ask God to change in your life so you can keep His law?`

`2. How does focusing on God’s mercy and power lead us to love and trust him? What in your life can you do to focus on God’s holiness? How will this help you keep God’s law?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, From Eternity Past, pp. 259, 260.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 8, pp. 207, 208.</sup>





Laura Vetter, Moscow, Idaho, USA