---
title:  His Promise Still Stands
date:   02/08/2017
---

**How-to**: Gen. 12:2, 3; Num. 23:19; Gal. 3:15–18, 21–25

Promises and laws seem like two contradictory concepts when it comes to the Christian faith. A promise is a fleeting statement. A law is a binding contract.The two couldn’t possibly be related, could they?

Our inability to see a relationship between promises and laws stems from the fact that this sinful, imperfect world clouds our perception of promises. Because we can’t separate human promises from God’s promises, we don’t take any of them to heart; instead, we focus more on the law—the dos and don’ts of Christianity.The law is dependable, safe—promises are not.

**We can trust God to bring about what He proclaims, and nothing could ever change that—not even the law.**

Have you ever wondered why God promised Abraham a life beyond his imagination (Gen. 12:2, 3) before writing down the Ten Commandments (Exod.20)? The fact that 430 years go by before God introduces the law to Israel suggests that His promises are just as important, or even more so, than therulesHegaveustofollow.Galatians3:17states,“Godhadan agreement with Abraham and promised to keep it. The law, which came four hundred and thirty years later, cannot change that agreement and so destroy God’s promise to Abraham” (NCV). How then can we, as Christians, help others see that the law and the promise go hand in hand? Two steps come to mind:

Point people to the rainbow as evidence for the trustworthiness of God’s promises. Before God promised to make Abraham’s family a great nation, He created the rainbow as a reminder that He can be trusted. Numbers 23:19 even says that “God is not a human being, and he will not lie. . . . What he promises, he makes come true” (NCV).We can trust God to bring about what He proclaims, and nothing could ever change that—not even the law.

Use Abraham’s test in Genesis 22 as an example of the inseparable relationship between the promise and the law.God’s promise to Abraham overruled the task He sent Abraham to complete, which illustrates the power the promise held andstillholds today.Anything Godasksus to do—anythingHis laws proclaim—would mean nothing without His promises leading the way.

**React**

`1. How can you better equip yourself to teach others how God’s promises are far superior to the law?`

`2. How can you help others see how the promise is still vital to our everyday lives?`

_Mindi Vetter, Newman Lake, Washington, USA_