---
title:  Relationship or Risk Management?
date:   03/08/2017
---

**Opinion**: Mark 10:17–22; Romans 4; Galatians 3; Heb. 11:8

_It’s not personal, it’s just business._

This line is often used to placate a person who has just found themselves on the losing end of a deal.To avoid these personal conflicts and minimize risk, often lengthy legal documents are drawn up and signed.The fine print details the consequences of any breach.The contract binds the parties together.

**The bedrock of his existence was his close, personal relationship with God.**

Is a contract the same as a promise? Think about the people who promise to spend quality time with you, help, or pray for you.You don’t need a written contract for the promises that come with these personal relationships. That’s why when a romance ends, it is so painful.What made that relationship meaningful and unique was the building up of trust over time.

In Galatians, Paul’s indignation is directed at those attempting to fetter the free hearts of new Christians with the heavy chains of an ironclad contract. Their creed was that in rigidly obeying the law, they would earn eternal life. Paul passionately reminds them that the promise to Abraham and the gospel of Jesus are paramount.

What was Abraham’s part? He believed God without needing any worldly evidence. Abraham, by faith, stepped into the story that God had written for him. Thus, he physically and spiritually began a lifelong trek into the desert without any knowledge of where he was going (Heb.11:8).The bedrock of his existence was his close, personal relationship with God.

Mark tells the story of the rich, young ruler who approached Jesus and asked what he must do to gain eternal life. He had kept all the commandments since his birth. What was Jesus’ response? First, Jesus looked into his heart and loved him. Then He asked him to give up all of his possessions in exchange for becoming a disciple; for entering into the beautiful, blind faith of following the Son of God into the unknown. The Bible says, “He went away sad, because he had great wealth” (Mark 10:22, NIV). He wanted the tangible contract, not the risk that accompanied a leap of faith.

Sadly, for him it wasn’t personal, it was just business.

**React**

`1. In your experience in the church, do you feel most of the emphasis is placed on salvation by faith or by works?`

`2. In your life, do you find yourself motivated by what God might provide for you—that new job, for example—rather than focusing on His promise to you?`

_Laura Gang, Nashville, Tennessee, USA_