---
title:  It Is Done!
date:   04/08/2017
---

**Exploration**: Gal. 3:18

**Conclude**

Numbers 23:19 reminds us that “God is not man, that He should lie” (NKJV). Therefore, when God promises a thing, it is done because God’s word is the thing itself. We see that demonstrated in the Genesis account of Creation, when God called things that were not and they appeared. In other instances, God pronounces, promises, or calls things that do not appear immediately, such as His promise to Abraham. Then, the law came some 430 years later. Does it then reverse God’s promise? The simple answer is No! The promise to Abraham was already fulfilled as the words left the mouth of God and is still relevant to us today. We just need faith to grasp hold of the promise of God to Abraham, that we are justified by grace and will inherit eternal life regardless of the presence of the law, because anything God promises is done!

**Consider**

- Creating a visual image, map, or mural linking the time of God’s promise to Abraham to the promise being alive today.
- Writing a short piece on how people are encouraged to break promises in our modern society compared to the mandates given by God in the Bible about keeping our promises or words.
- Listening to “Standing on the Promises,” hymn no.518 in the Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal.How can we relate the song to this week’s discussion?
- Leading a group discussion about the importance of keeping promises and linking it to God’s promise to Abraham and to us by extension.
- Reflecting upon a time in your life when your parents or significant adults made promises that they did not keep. How did you feel? What about a time when they kept their promises? How different were those feelings? Can you visualize God fulfilling Abraham’s promise to you?
- Creating a short skit linking the time when God made the promise to Abraham and how that promise is still relevant to us today.
- Observing the aspects of nature that testify that the promises made by God are true.

**Connect**

- James 5:12; 1 John 2:5; Deuteronomy 23:23.
- Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, p. 47; Patriarchs and Prophets, chapter 11, “The Call of Abraham.”
- A Walk Thru the Life of Abraham: Faith in God’s Promises (Baker, 2010).
- Bruce Feiler, Abraham: A Journey to the Heart of Three Faiths (Harper-Collins, 2004).

_Nadine Joseph, Brooklyn, New York, USA_