---
title:  An Unhappy End For Some Countries 
date:  31/01/2021
---

Isaiah 13:1 starts a new part of the book. Chapters 13–23 are warnings. Isaiah warns that God is going to punish some of the countries near Israel in the future.

`Read Isaiah’s warnings in chapters 13–23. Why do Isaiah’s warnings start with Babylon?`

In Isaiah 10:5–34, we read about how God will punish Assyria. Assyria was the biggest danger to Israel in the time of Isaiah. Isaiah 14:24–27 tells us about the Lord’s plan to break Assyria. Chapters 13–23 talk about other dangers to Israel. The most important one is Babylon.

Babylon is a very old city, even in the time of Isaiah. The religion and way of life in Babylon are known to people who live everywhere on the earth. Babylon has a deep history. Later, in the time of Jeremiah, Babylon will become a superpower. Then Babylon will beat Judah in war. The Babylonians will carry the people of Judah away as prisoners to Babylon. But in the time of Isaiah, no one sees that Babylon will be any danger to the people of God. In the time of Isaiah, Assyria controlled Babylon. From 728 B.C., Assyrian kings took control of Babylon many times. The first time it happened was the time when Tiglath-pileser the Third took Babylon and was made king of Babylon. He used the name Pulu (or Pul; 2 Kings 15:19 and 1 Chronicles 4:26) in Babylon. Even so, Babylon will become the mighty superpower in the area. This mighty kingdom will destroy the kingdom of Judah.

`Read what Isaiah writes in chapter 13. Do you see how strong his words are? Why does a loving God do these things? Why does He allow them to happen? For sure, some innocent people will suffer, too, right (Isaiah 13:16)? So, how do we understand God’s action? This verse shows us God’s anger against sin and evil. What should this show us about sin? How evil is it? We must remember that this is Jesus who gives these warnings to Isaiah. This same Jesus forgave, healed, and warned sinners to turn away from sin when He was on earth. So, how do you understand this angry part of God? Do you think that maybe God’s anger against sin comes from His love? How does the suffering of Jesus on the cross help us answer these difficult questions?`