---
title:  The Powerful City Of Babylon 
date:  01/02/2021
---

In 626 B.C., Nabopolassar of Chaldea made Babylon a powerful city. He made himself king in Babylon. He also fought with the kingdom of Media against Assyria. Together, Babylon and Media beat Assyria in war. The son of Nabopolassar was Nebuchadnezzar the Second. Nebuchadnezzar beat Judah. Then he took the people of Judah as his prisoners. He carried them away to Babylon.

`How did the city of Babylon end?`

In 539 B.C., Cyrus the Persian took Babylon. He made it part of the kingdom of Medo-Persia. Then Babylon lost its freedom forever. In 482 B.C., Persian King Xerxes the First stopped the Babylonians who fought against the Persian government. Xerxes took away from the city the statue of the Babylonian god Marduk. Marduk was the most important god of Babylon.

Later, Alexander the Great took Babylon from the Persians in 331 B.C. No one tried to stop him. Alexander dreamed of making Babylon the capital of his eastern kingdom. But that never happened. Babylon died out over the next several hundred years. By 198 A.D., the Romans found the city empty. Today, some Iraqi villagers live on parts of the old city. But they have not rebuilt the city.

Babylon used its power to hurt the Jews (Isaiah 14:1–3). Isaiah 13 talks about the end of Babylon. Cyrus makes this happen when he takes Babylon in 539 B.C. Then the people of God are made free. Cyrus does not destroy the city. But this is the beginning of the end for Babylon. The city will not be a danger to the people of God again.

Isaiah 13 shows why the fall of Babylon happens. God judges the city. The warriors who take the city are chosen by God (Isaiah 13:2–5). This time when God punishes Babylon is named “the day of the LORD” (Isaiah 13:6, 9, KJV). God’s anger against Babylon is so powerful. It causes the stars, the sun, and the moon to stop giving light. God’s anger also makes the sky and the earth shake (Isaiah 13:10, 13).

Compare what happens in Isaiah 13 to Judges 5. In Judges 5, Deborah and Barak tell us what happens when the Lord marches to war. The earth shakes. The sky pours down water (Judges 5:4). Judges 5:20, 21 show nature and the stars the same as warriors. They fight against the enemy from another land.