---
title:  The Mountain “king” Loses Power 
date:  02/02/2021
---

The fall of Babylon (Isaiah 13) makes the people of God free (Isaiah 14:1–3). Isaiah 14:4–23 shows what will happen to the king of Babylon. (Read also Micah 2:4 and Habakkuk 2:6.) These verses are a word picture. They show dead kings welcoming the king of Babylon to the kingdom of death (Isaiah 14:9, 10). In this kingdom, the king of Babylon sleeps on worms and maggots. Maggots are very young and small flies. The Lord uses this word picture to show the king of Babylon that he will fall from power the same as other kings.

Babylonian kings have hearts filled with pride (Daniel 4; Daniel 5). But this king has more pride than most kings! He brags about what he will do. “ ‘I’ll make myself like [the same as] the Most High God’ ” (Isaiah 14:14, NIrV). We can see that this king thinks very well of himself! Kings often announced their strong connections to gods. But the kings were always the servants of the gods. An example of this happened every year on the 5th day of the Babylonian New Year Celebration. On this day, the king must take off his royal crown before going to stand in front of the statue of the god Marduk. Then the king is allowed to continue to be king. So, no king in Old Testament times will ever think about getting rid of any god and taking his place. This idea is crazy.

Ezekiel 28 shows us a leader of a city who is full of pride too. As we saw in Isaiah 14, this leader is more than a human king. Ezekiel tells us that this leader was walking in the Garden of Eden. He was an angel too on the holy mountain of God. This angel was perfect from the first day God made him. Then God found sin in this angel’s heart and threw him out of heaven. In the end, God will destroy this angel with fire (Ezekiel 28:12–18). Who can this be? We cannot understand the verses if we say that the person here is a real human. In Revelation 12:7–9, we read about a mighty leader who is thrown out of heaven with his evil angels. He is “the devil, or Satan. He leads the whole world [the people on the earth] astray [away from God]” (Revelation 12:9, NIrV). This same devil lied to Eve in Eden (Genesis 3).

Satan has a heart filled with pride. He brags that He is a god (Ezekiel 28:2). But his death will show that he is no god. He will die in a sea of fire (Revelation 20:10). Then he will not hurt anyone in heaven or on earth again.