---
title:  Heaven’s Gate 
date:  03/02/2021
---

In Isaiah 14, we see that the warning that God gives to Satan is blended with a warning against the king of Babylon. Why does Isaiah mix the two warnings together? Compare Revelation 12:1–9. In these verses, a dragon named Satan (Revelation 12:9) tries to destroy a child as soon as it is born. Revelation 12:5 shows us that the child is Jesus. But it is King Herod who tries to kill Jesus when He is a child (Matthew 2). This helps us see that the dragon is a word picture for both Satan and the Roman power. Satan uses humans to do his work. In the same way, Satan is the power behind the king of Babylon and the prince of Tyre.

`Later, the Bible uses the name “Babylon” for Rome (1 Peter 5:13). The Bible also uses Rome as a word picture for an evil power in Revelation 14:8; Revelation 16:19; Revelation 17:5; and Revelation 18:2, 10, 21. Why?`

The kingdom of Rome and “Babylon” in Revelation are much the same as Babylon in the Old Testament. Both Rome and Babylon use their power to hurt the people of God. In Revelation, Babylon is shown as a woman. This woman is “drunk with the blood of God’s holy people” (Revelation 17:6, NIrV). Both Rome and Babylon fight against God. We can see this idea in the name of Babylon itself. In the Babylonian language, the name Babylon is “bab ili.” It means “the gate of god(s).” This shows that Babylon is a place where people can reach God. Compare Genesis 11. In this chapter, people built the tower of Babel (Babylon) by their own power. They try to rise as high as God. If they can reach heaven, they will be equal with God. Then they will no longer need to obey Him.

Jacob dreamed about a ladder that connected heaven and earth. Then he woke up. He “was afraid and said, ‘This is a very great [holy] place. This is the house of God. This is the gate to heaven’ ” (Genesis 28:17, ERV). Do you see that the “house of God” is the same as “the gate to heaven”? So, this is the way to reach God. Jacob names the place “Bethel.” Bethel means “house of God.” The “gate to heaven” at Bethel and the “gate of god(s)” at Babylon were two very different ways to reach God. Jacob’s ladder came from heaven. But Babylon was built by humans. So, Babylon is a word picture for all false religion and for people who try to reach heaven by their own good behavior.