---
title:  Zion Wins In The End 
date:  04/02/2021
---

Isaiah 24–27 shows that God will beat His enemies at the end of time. Then He makes His people free forever.

`Isaiah shows us that the earth will be empty at this time (Isaiah 24). John also says that the earth will be empty during the 1,000 years after the Second Coming (Revelation 20). Are these two chapters talking about the same thing? If yes, explain.`

In Isaiah 24–27, we see that Old Testament Babylon is a word picture for other powers on the earth. The king of Babylon is a word picture for different leaders and for the one who controls them: Satan himself. That is why the message that real Babylon has been beaten (Isaiah 21:9) also is said at a later time (Revelation 14:8; Revelation 18:2). Then Satan will be destroyed 1,000 years after the Second Coming (Revelation 20:10). God destroyed Old Testament Babylon. That punishment was named the “day of the Lord” (Isaiah 13:6, 9, KJV). Another “ ‘great [important] and fearful [awful] day of the LORD will come!” (Joel 2:31, ERV; Malachi 4:5; compare Zephaniah 1:7). It is on the way.

In the same way, Isaiah has a dream about his time that is also about the future. At that time, “the LORD will rule [sit on His throne] as king on Mount Zion in Jerusalem” (Isaiah 24:23, ERV). For sure, Isaiah thought the dream was about the Jerusalem that he knew. But the book of Revelation shows that the dream of Isaiah is about the New Jerusalem (Revelation 21:2). “The city did not need the sun or the moon to shine on it. The glory of God gave the city light. The Lamb was the city’s lamp” (Revelation 21:23, ERV).

`Does God really destroy evil people who do not turn away from their sins to be saved?`

Look at Isaiah 28:21. Isaiah tells us that the Lord “will do what he must do. It will be what some stranger should do, but he will finish this work. Yes, this is a stranger’s job” (Isaiah 28:21, ERV). The work He must finish is the job of destroying evil people. Why is this work the job of a stranger? Because God does not want to do it. He has the final control over who lives and dies.