---
title:  Further Thought
date:  05/02/2021
---

“People will ask, How we are saved by doing anything special? The answer is no. If we come to Him, then what does He ask us to do? We must take hold of Jesus in living faith. We must trust fully in the blood of our Savior. He died for us on the cross. He woke up from the dead. When we trust in Him, then we will live holy lives. But when God invites the sinner to come to Him, the sinner does not need to do something special. The invitation to come to God comes from Jesus. You do not need to answer to come to God. The sinner comes. As he comes, he views Jesus high on the cross of Calvary. God stamps this picture in the mind of the sinner. The sinner sees love there on the cross. This love is more than anything that he ever dreamed about. That is the love that the sinner grabs hold of.”—Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, volume 6, page 32, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Look at the quotation from Ellen G. White above. Read it and think about what you learned on Wednesday. What is Ellen G. White telling us? Do you see that she talks about both parts of our Christian walk with God: faith and then works? How are they different?`

`Why is pride a danger to our spiritual lives? Why is pride so difficult to let go of? Is it because pride blinds us to our need to put pride away? If you are filled with pride, you think you are OK, right? So, why should we change? How can thinking about the Cross “heal” us from the sickness of pride?`

`Does Isaiah see hope for people from other countries? Explain. (For the answer, read Isaiah 25:3, 6; Isaiah 26:9; compare Revelation 19:9.)`

**Summary**: Isaiah sees that Babylon will be the next big kingdom on the earth after Assyria. Babylon will beat Judah. Satan and his angels will use the enemies of God to do their work. But the Lord will win in the end. He will bring everlasting peace to our suffering planet.