---
title:  Kindness, Goodness, and Faithfulness
date:   15/02/2017
---

### Kindness, Goodness, and Faithfulness

`Read 1 Corinthians 13:4. Why does genuine kindness have such positive appeal to other people? Where do you see God’s kindness in His dealings with humanity?`

“Kindness” is the word frequently used in describing God’s dealings with His people. Kindness also describes our dealings with others in their failures. God could be quite harsh in dealing with our faults. Yet, He treats us as a loving father would treat a learning child (Hos. 11:1–4). Perhaps nothing discredits our Christian testimony and ministry more frequently than unkindness. It does not cost money to be kind, but it can open the door to the heart of the other person. No matter how firm we must be in reproof, we need not become unkind in our dealings with others, whatever their faults and issues. To reprove in kindness is perhaps the greatest sign of nobility of character.

`Read Ephesians 5:9. What accompanies goodness in this passage?` 

Goodness is love in action. The goodness that grows as the fruit of the Spirit also includes works and acts of goodness. It is goodness shown to others in practical works of love. When the Holy Spirit lives in us, there will be a positive outflow of goodness to the people with whom we come in contact.

`Read Galatians 5:22. Why is it important to be trustworthy and faithful in our Christian walk with God?`

What we are looking at here is the faithfulness of character and conduct brought forth through the Holy Spirit. Faithfulness means trustworthiness or reliability. Those who are faithful do what they promise to do. Faithfulness is also a characteristic of Jesus Christ, who is called “the faithful witness” (Rev. 1:5, NASB), and of God the Father, who keeps His promises and is faithful in what He does (1 Cor. 1:9, 10:13, 1 Thess. 5:24, 2 Thess. 3:3). In our faithfulness, we reflect the image of God in our lives. “It is not the great results we attain, but the motives from which we act, that weigh with God. He prizes goodness and faithfulness more than the greatness of the work accomplished.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2, pp. 510, 511.