---
title:  Gentleness and Self-Control
date:   16/02/2017
---

### Gentleness and Self-Control 

`Read Galatians 5:23 and Matthew 5:5. Why is meekness, or gentleness, so important for Christlike leadership?` 

Gentleness, or meekness, does not mean weakness. It is not cowardice or lack of leadership. On the contrary, Moses was called the meekest man on earth (Num. 12:3); yet, he was a powerful leader of God’s people. Meek people are not boisterous, quarrelsome, or selfishly aggressive. Instead, they serve in a gentle spirit. Meekness can be the outward expression of an inward faith and confidence—not in oneself, of course, but in the power of God, which works within us. Oftentimes, those who are loud, boisterous, and assertive are covering up insecurities and fears.

`Read Galatians 5:23 and Proverbs 16:32. What misery comes when we do not exercise self-control? What blessings do we gain if we are self-controlled and temperate in our lives?`

The last aspect of the fruit of the Spirit is temperance or self-control. Here is where we all need to be careful, for who doesn’t struggle, in one area or another, with self-mastery? Before one can rule a city, a community, or a church, one has to be able to control his or her own spirit. True temperance is control, not only over food and drink but over every phase of life.

All the above-mentioned aspects are parts of the one fruit of the Spirit. When the Bible describes God’s work in our lives, the ethical aspects of holiness have priority over the charismatic gifts. Christlikeness in all its facets is what really matters in the life of the believer. Because the fruit of the Spirit is the common distinguishing mark of all believers everywhere, it produces a visible unity in His church. 

`Think about areas of your life in which you should be more self-controlled. Perhaps you are in one area but not so much in another. Why is it important to have, through the power of God, control over all areas? Bring your answer to class on Sabbath.`