---
title:  What More Could I Do?
date:   08/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson:

John 18:37; Romans 3:23–26; Isaiah 5:1–4; Matthew 21:33–39; Romans 3:1–4.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
>  “Pilate said to Him, ‘So You are a King?’ Jesus said, ‘You are right [correct] when you say that I am a King. I was born for this reason. I came into the world for this reason. I came to speak about the truth. Everyone who is of [belongs to] the truth hears [obeys] My voice’ ” (John 18:37, NLV).

Many years ago, a powerful children’s story was printed in Guide magazine. The story is about a boy named Denis who lives during the Middle Ages. Denis is an orphan who lives with a family who takes care of him. Denis hates the king of his land. When Denis’s parents were sick, the king’s soldiers carried him away. Denis never saw his parents again. Later, Denis learned that the king separated Denis from his parents to protect him from a very terrible disease named the Black Death. The truth about the king made Denis free from hate. Then Denis understood that the king loved his people. He always did what was best for them.

Many people today feel about God the way Denis felt about the king. People hate God because of the evil that happens on this earth. Where is God when there is suffering? If God is good, why is there so much evil? The worldwide war between God and Satan helps us understand these important questions better. But we do not have answers for many questions. When we can’t answer these questions, we can always look to Jesus on the cross. Then we can see that we can trust God with everything we don’t understand for now.