---
title:  Jesus The Winner
date:   09/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Satan, our enemy, is hard at work. Jesus says Satan is the prince of this earth. But Satan is a prince because he stole his kingdom from Adam when Adam sinned. The real king of heaven and earth is Jesus Christ. Jesus wins the fight against Satan for us. He gives us strength and success. He gives us hope during hard times and suffering.

The Bible tells us many things about the devil. He is:

1. The one who fools and tricks the people on this earth from the beginning (Revelation 12:9; Matthew 4:3; John 8:44; 2 Corinthians 11:3; 1 John 3:8).
2. The one who talks bad about God. Satan accuses God and His people in heaven (Revelation 12:10; Revelation 13:6; Job 1–2; Zechariah 3:1, 2; Jude 9).
3. The one who stole this earth’s kingdom from Adam when he sinned and who now controls many things on this planet (John 14:30; John 16:11; Acts 26:18; 2 Corinthians 4:4; Ephesians 2:2; 1 John 5:19).

`Read John 18:37. What does this verse tell us about Jesus’ work to stop the lies of Satan? What does it mean that Jesus is King?`

In the Bible, we learn that Satan is a liar. Satan talks bad about God. He accuses God and His people. Satan stole the control of this earth away from Adam. The Bible also teaches us that Jesus is the winner over Satan in every way.

1. Jesus “ ‘came into the world for this reason. I came to speak about the truth’ ” (John 18:37, NLV).
2. Jesus showed God’s perfect love (Romans 3:25, 26; Romans 5:8). When Jesus showed God’s perfect love, He gave proof that the devil’s words against God were lies (Revelation 12:10, 11).
3. Jesus will finally destroy the devil’s kingdom. Then Jesus will be the King over heaven and earth forever and ever (Revelation 11:15). So, the devil “knows he doesn’t have much time” (Revelation 12:12, ERV; compare with Romans 16:20).

In the end, Satan has already lost the war. Satan can’t do anything to win the war now.