---
title:  The One Who Makes Us Holy And Accepted With God
date:   10/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

All the time, Jesus works to stop and reverse the devil’s work. 1 John 3:8 tells us that “the Son of God came . . . to destroy the devil’s work” (ERV). Jesus also came to “destroy the one who has the power of death. That one is the devil” (Hebrews 2:14, ICB). Jesus will destroy Satan’s control in two parts. First, Jesus will die on the cross. His death will show that Satan’s words against God are lies. Second, God will destroy Satan and his kingdom later on.

`Read Romans 3:23–26 and Romans 5:8. What do these verses teach us about the way Jesus destroys the lies of Satan?`

As we already saw, Satan says that God is not full of mercy or love. In Jesus, God gives us proof of His mercy and love. The Cross is the proof.

After Jesus died, “Satan saw that God showed everyone who he really was. God also showed the angels in heaven the truth about Satan’s government. Satan was a killer. When Satan killed Jesus, the angels stopped feeling any more pity or sorrow for Satan.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 761, adapted.

`Read Revelation 12:10–12 along with Genesis 3:15. How do these verses help us understand why Jesus’ win at the cross was so very important?`

The history of God’s plan to save us gives us more than enough proof that God always works to do what is best for everyone. God always does what is good. He works within the limits He agreed to in the worldwide war between good and evil (Deuteronomy 32:4; 1 Samuel 3:18; Psalm 145:17; Daniel 4:37; Habakkuk 1:13; Revelation 15:3; Genesis 18:25).

`Why is God’s love in the worldwide war between good and evil so important? Think about the Cross and everything that God did to save us. How do His works give you hope to trust in His love, even when you suffer?`