---
title:  The Song Of My Beloved
date:   11/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In amazing ways, God shows His love for us in the worldwide war between good and evil. But some may ask, “Should God do more than He did to prevent or remove evil?” We saw that the worldwide war between good and evil shows that God always acts in a way that respects our free choice. God respects our free choice so that we will love Him. As we saw, this free choice is necessary for a love relationship between God and humans. We also saw that God follows rules in the worldwide war between good and evil. The rules are named the rules for war. The rules for war show us how God will act and what He can and cannot do because He is a God of love.

`Read Isaiah 5:1–4. Who is talking in these verses? What is Isaiah talking about? The grape field and its owner are word pictures. What do these word pictures show us? What does the owner do for his grape field? Why are these things important? What do they mean? What happens because of the things that the owner does?`

In these verses, Isaiah sings a song about his beloved, who is the same as a grape field. The grape field is a word picture for God’s people (for more examples, read Isaiah 1:8 and Jeremiah 2:21). But the grape field can also be a word picture for all the people that God is trying to save everywhere on earth. The owner of the grape field is God. God did everything we could expect to make sure His field grew. The field should grow good grapes. But the field grew wild grapes. Some Bible translations say “useless” grapes that aren’t worth anything. The Hebrew word for “wild” or “useless” also can be written as “stink-fruit”! God’s grape field grew rotten grapes.

In Isaiah 5:3, God starts talking. God invites people to judge between Him and His grape field. In Isaiah 5:4, God asks an all-important question, “ ‘What more could I do for my vineyard [grape field]? I did everything I could. I hoped for good grapes to grow, but there were only rotten ones. Why did that happen?’ ” (ERV). What more could God do? Do you see that God asks other people to judge what He did? That is very interesting!

`When you look at the Cross, think about Isaiah 5:4. What more could God do to save us than die for our sins?`