---
title:  Jesus’ Picture Story About The Grape Field
date:   12/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Matthew 21, Jesus tells a picture story about an owner of a grape field. This picture story helps us remember Isaiah’s song about the grape field in Isaiah 5.

`Read Matthew 21:33–39 as you think about the question that God asked in Isaiah 5:4. What more could God do to save us than He already did?`

The first part of Jesus’ picture story is a quote from the song of Isaiah 5 about the grape field and its owner. Then, Jesus adds, the owner rented His field to some farmers and went on a trip to visit a country far away (Matthew 21:33). Two times the owner sent His servants to check on the grape field. (The servants are a word picture for God’s prophets or special messengers.) The owner sent the servants to collect the grapes. But the farmers beat and killed his servants (Matthew 21:34–36). Finally, the Owner (God) sent His Son (Jesus), saying, “ ‘They will respect my son’ ” (Matthew 21:37, NKJV). “But when the farmers saw the son, they said to each other, ‘This is the owner’s son. This vineyard [grape field] will be his. If we kill him, it will be ours.’ So the farmers took the son, threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him” (Matthew 21:38, 39, ERV).

What more could God do? The Father loved us so much. He gave His beloved Son to save us (John 3:16). As we already saw, the worldwide war between good and evil can’t be solved with God destroying evil too soon. First, God must show that He is a God of love. God showed His love in a public way in the work of Jesus (Romans 3:25, 26; Romans 5:8). What more could we ask God than to give us His Son to die for us? God gave us His Son so that He could honor His law. Then He could accept us. He could be both fair and loving at the same time.

The Cross shows us that God did everything He could do to destroy evil without removing our free choice. Free choice is necessary for love. If God could save us any other way, don’t you think He would choose it? Of course He would! People suffer much in the worldwide war between God and Satan. But God suffers the most. When we look at the Cross, we see how much God suffered because of sin. But Jesus was willing to die so that we could be free to love. That’s how much Jesus respects our freedom to choose.