---
title:  God Is Innocent
date:   13/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In the end, everyone in heaven and on earth will see that God is not guilty of the things Satan says about Him. The Father, the Son, and Holy Spirit will show in Their plan to save us that God is a God of love. Then no one will doubt God’s love or mercy again (read Romans 3:25, 26; Romans 5:8).

`Read Romans 3:1–4, along with Isaiah 5:3, 4. What do these verses teach us about how God will be shown to be innocent in the worldwide war between good and evil?`

In Romans 3 and Isaiah 5, God invites (in a limited way) people to judge who He is and what He does. No one is good enough to judge God. But God invites His people to judge His actions anyway. In the end, we will see the proof that God is fair and holy. God will show everyone in heaven and on earth that He is not guilty of the things Satan accuses Him of doing.

`Read Revelation 15:3 and Revelation 19:1–6. What do these verses teach us about how God will show everyone that He is innocent in the end?`

All through the Bible, God shows that He cares about His name. Why? You can’t have a deep love relationship with someone you hate or don’t trust. If someone told your husband or wife terrible things about you, what would you do? You’d show you were innocent, right? If your husband or wife believed those lies, the lies would destroy your relationship.

In the end, God will show that He is innocent, and that Satan lied about Him. The Cross is proof, and so is God’s plan to save us. In God’s work as Judge, everyone in heaven and on earth will see that God is innocent.

After we get to heaven, we will judge the lost, both humans and angels (1 Corinthians 6:2, 3). When we review the records of their lives, we will see that God isn’t guilty of anything Satan said. We will see that all of God’s punishments were fair, loving, and holy. For sure, we all have questions that need answering. Before we finish our work in heaven, God will answer all our questions (read 1 Corinthians 4:5).