---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   14/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Reward of Earnest Effort,” pages 285–288, in Testimonies for the Church, volume 9.

“When we get to heaven, we will understand everything that confused us about God’s plan in this life. We will get an explanation for the things that are hard to understand now. God will explain the mystery of His mercy and love. Where we now see only broken promises, we shall see the most perfect plan. We shall know that God in His love gave us the experiences that seem the most difficult. We will understand that God in His tender care for us makes all things work together for our good. Then we will rejoice with joy that can’t be put into words. Our joy will be filled with praise to God.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 9, page 286, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Do you sometimes feel confused when you try to understand God’s plan for your life? What hope do you feel about God’s plan to explain everything to you in heaven?`

`Think about everything Jesus gave up to become human and die for us. Also, think about what His decision tells us about God’s love and why we can trust God. What more could God do to save us?`

`What is so important about God’s name? What does your answer tell you about how important our name is as Seventh-day Adventist Christians? In what ways do Christians sometimes do things to cause people to lose respect for the name of Jesus? What can we do in our local communities to show people what following Jesus in this life is all about?`

`In the end, our best answers to the sin problem are not complete. What can we do now to help people who are suffering while we wait for God to show us His answers to the problem with evil?`

`Think more about Isaiah 53:4. What does it mean that Jesus carried our sorrow and pain on the cross? How does the Cross help us understand God’s saving plan?`