---
title:  'Humility of Soul: John the Baptist Testifies Again'
date:  03/11/2024
---

Lesson 2 described how the witness of John the Baptist brought the first disciples—Andrew and John, Peter, Philip, and Nathanael—to Jesus. One would expect that the Baptist, having given his witness, would move off the scene. But he reappears several times in the Gospel of John.

`Read John 3:25–36. How does John the Baptist compare himself to Jesus?`

A dispute arose between John the Baptist’s disciples and an unnamed Jew about purification, likely a question over the efficacy of baptism (compare with Mark 1:4, 5). Interestingly, when his disciples come to John, no doubt to resolve the question, they bring up Jesus, saying, “ ‘He is baptizing, and all are going to him’ ” (John 3:26, ESV). It is not hard to read between the lines: they are jealous of Jesus—jealous for _their_ master and jealous for themselves, as well.

It would be all too easy for John to indulge in the jealousy, but he does not because he knows what his mission is. Instead, he reminds his disciples that he never claimed to be the Christ. On the contrary: he came to point toward Him, to prepare the way for Him, to be a witness about Him (John 1:6–8).

Using the illustration of a wedding, he calls himself the friend of the bridegroom, with Jesus as the bridegroom. The bride would be the people of God (compare with Hos. 2:16–23 and Isa. 62:1–5). Then, in words that show John’s true greatness, he says, “He must increase, but I must decrease” (John 3:30).

John 3:31–36 continues the comparison between Jesus and John, showing the superiority of the Messiah over His forerunner. With John’s testimony pointing toward Jesus, the idea of witness is again emphasized. Those who receive that testimony and believe in Jesus have eternal life. Those who do not receive Him remain under the wrath of God. That’s what the text says. God loves the world and sent His Son to redeem the world (John 3:16, 17). But those who refuse the gift offered them will have to pay the penalty for their own sins—eternal death.

`How can we learn the lesson of humility before both God and humanity? What can we learn from the example of John here about humility of the soul?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When, after Christ’s ministry began, the disciples of John came to him with the complaint that all men were following the new Teacher, John showed how clearly he understood his relation to the Messiah, and how gladly he welcomed the One for whom he had prepared the way. . . .\
“Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before Him. He that hath the bride is the bridegroom: but the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him; rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom’s voice: this my joy therefore is fulfilled. He must increase, but I must decrease.” [John 3:27–30.]\
Looking in faith to the Redeemer, John had risen to the height of self-abnegation. He sought not to attract men to himself, but to lift their thoughts higher and still higher, until they should rest upon the Lamb of God. He himself had been only a voice, a cry in the wilderness. Now with joy he accepted silence and obscurity, that the eyes of all might be turned to the Light of life.—Gospel Workers, pp. 55, 56.

The prophet [John the Baptist] points to the Saviour as the Sun of Righteousness rising with splendor, and soon to eclipse his own light, then growing pale and dim in the glory of a greater light. John, by his unselfish joy in the successful ministry of Jesus, presents to the world the truest type of nobility ever exhibited by mortal man. It carries a lesson of submission and self-sacrifice to those whom God has placed in responsible positions. It teaches them never to ap­propriate to themselves undue honor, nor let the spirit of rivalry disgrace the cause of God. . . .\
The news that had been carried to John concerning the success of Jesus, was also borne to Jerusalem, and there created against him jealousy, envy, and hatred. Jesus knew the hard hearts and darkened minds of the Pharisees, and that they would spare no pains to create a division between his own disciples and those of John that would greatly injure the work, so he quietly ceased to baptize and withdrew to Galilee. He knew that the storm was gathering which was soon to sweep away the noblest prophet God had ever given to the world. He wished to avoid all division of feeling in the great work before him, and, for the time, removed from that region for the purpose of allaying all excitement detrimental to the cause of God.—The Spirit of Prophecy, vol. 2, pp. 138, 139.

When, in the place of leaning upon human understanding or conforming to worldly maxims, we sit at the feet of Jesus, eagerly drinking in His words, learning of Him, and saying. “Lord, what wilt Thou have me to do?” our natural independence, our self-confidence, our strong self-will, will be exchanged for a childlike, submissive, teachable spirit. . . .\
Our affections will center in Jesus, our thoughts will be strongly drawn heavenward. Christ will increase, I will decrease. . . . We will cultivate the virtues that dwell in Jesus, that we may reflect to others a representation of His character.—Our High Calling, p. 99.