---
title:  The End
date:   24/09/2016
---

### Read for This Week’s Study:
Job 42:10–17; Gen. 4:8; Matt. 14:10; 1 Cor. 4:5; Dan. 2:44; Job 14:14, 15.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Jesus said to her, ‘I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in Me, though he may die, he shall live’ ” (John 11:25, NKJV).

In writing classes, students are taught the importance of a good ending to their pieces. Particularly in fiction, where the whole thing is made up, the author needs to bring the end to a satisfactory close. But even in nonfiction, a good ending is important.

But what about reality? What about life itself, lived not in the pages of a book or in a film script but in flesh and blood? What about our own stories? What kind of endings do they have? How do they wind up? Are the loose ends tied together nicely, as in a good piece of writing?

This doesn’t seem to be the case, does it? How could they end well, when our stories always end in death? In that sense, we never really have happy endings, do we, because when is death happy?

The same is true with the story of Job. Though its conclusion is often depicted as a happy ending, at least in contrast to all that Job had suf- fered, it’s really not that happy, because this story, too, ends in death.

This week, as we begin the book of Job, we will start at its end, because it brings up questions about our ends as well, not just for now but for eternity.

```This week, as we begin the book of Job, we will start at its end, because it brings up questions about our ends as well, not just for now but for eternity.```

###### * Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, October 1.