---
title:  Further Thought
date:   30/09/2016
---

Despite all the horrific calamities that befell Job, not only did he stay faithful to God, but he was given back much of what he had lost. Yet even here, as with much of the book of Job, questions remain unanswered. Sure, Job is just one book of the Bible, and to build an entire theology on one book would be wrong. We have the rest of the Scriptures, which add so much more understanding regarding many of the difficult questions addressed in the book of Job. The New Testament especially brings to light so many things that couldn’t have been fully understood in Old Testament times. Perhaps the greatest example of this would be the mean- ing of the sanctuary service. However much a faithful Israelite might have understood about the death of the animals and the entire sacrificial service, only through the revelation of Jesus and His death on the cross does the system come more fully to light. The book of Hebrews helps illuminate so much of the true meaning of the entire service. And though today we have the privilege of knowing “present truth” (2 Pet. 1:12) and certainly have been given more light on issues than Job had, we still have to learn to live with unanswered questions too. The unfolding of truth is progressive, and despite the great light we have been given now, there’s still so much more to learn. In fact, we’ve been told that “the redeemed throng will range from world to world, and much of their time will be employed in searching out the myster- ies of redemption. And throughout the whole stretch of eternity, this subject will be continually opening to their minds.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, March 9, 1886.

### Discussion Questions:

- ```What does the idea of progressive revelation mean? What are other examples of how the idea works? For example, one begins arithmetic by learning the numbers, how to count. We then learn how to add, subtract, multiply, and divide those numbers. We then can move on to deeper things such as algebra, geometry, and calculus, all still working with those basic numbers. How does this analogy help us understand the idea of progressive revelation in theology as well?```
- ```Read Job 42:11. Commentators through the ages have asked the question about where Job’s relatives and friends were during the times of his greatest need. That is, they came after his fortunes had turned around and things were going better for him. What’s wrong with this picture?```
- ```How many bad endings do you know of now, and what hope does the Cross give you that these bad endings do not truly end the story?```