---
title:  Abram’s Departure
date:  01/05/2022
---

`Read Genesis 12:1–9. Why did God call Abram to leave his country and family? How did Abram respond?`

The last time that God had spoken with a person, at least as recorded in Scripture, it was with Noah, to reassure him after the Flood that He would establish a covenant with all flesh (Gen. 9:15–17) and that another worldwide flood would never come. God’s new word, now to Abram, reconnects with that promise: all the nations of the earth will be blessed through Abram.

The fulfillment of that prophecy begins with leaving the past. Abram leaves all that is familiar to him, his family, his country, even a part of himself. The intensity of this going is reflected in the repetition of the keyword “go,” which occurs seven times in this context. Abram has first to leave his country, “Ur of the Chaldeans,” which also is Babylonia (Gen. 11:31, NKJV; Isa. 13:19). The call to “go out of Babylon” has a long history among the biblical prophets (Isa. 48:20, Rev. 18:4).

Abram’s departure also concerns his family. Abram must leave his heritage and much of what he learned and acquired through heredity, education, and influence.

Yet, God’s call to go involves even more. The Hebrew phrase _lekh lekha_, “go,” translated literally, means “go yourself” or “go for yourself.” Abram’s departure from Babylon concerns more than his environment, or even his family. The Hebrew phrase suggests an emphasis on _himself_. Abram has to leave _himself_, to get rid of the part of himself that contains his Babylonian past.

The goal of this abandonment is “a land” that God will show him. The same language will be used again in the context of the sacrifice of Isaac (Gen. 22:2) to refer to the mount of Moriah, where Isaac will be offered and where the Jerusalem temple will be built (2 Chron. 3:1). God’s promise is not just about a physical homeland but about the salvation of the world. This idea is reaffirmed in God’s promise of the blessing for all nations (Gen. 12:2, 3). The verb _barakh_, “bless,” appears five times in this passage. This universal blessing for all people will come through the “seed” of Abram (Gen. 22:18, Gen. 26:4, Gen. 28:14). The text refers here to the “seed” that will ultimately be fulfilled in Jesus Christ (Acts 3:25).

`What might God be calling you to leave behind? That is, what part of your life might you have to abandon in order to heed the call of God?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

After the dispersion from Babel idolatry again became well-nigh universal, and the Lord finally left the hardened transgressors to follow their evil ways, while He chose Abraham, of the line of Shem, and made him the keeper of His law for future generations. Abraham had grown up in the midst of superstition and heathenism. Even his father’s household, by whom the knowledge of God had been preserved, were yielding to the seductive influences surrounding them, and they “served other gods” than Jehovah. But the true faith was not to become extinct. God has ever preserved a remnant to serve Him. Adam, Seth, Enoch, Methuselah, Noah, Shem, in unbroken line, had preserved from age to age the precious revealings of His will. The son of Terah became the inheritor of this holy trust. Idolatry invited him on every side, but in vain. Faithful among the faithless, uncorrupted by the prevailing apostasy, he steadfastly adhered to the worship of the one true God. “The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon Him, to all that call upon Him in truth.” Psalm 145:18. He communicated His will to Abraham, and gave him a distinct knowledge of the requirements of His law and of the salvation that would be accomplished through Christ. . . .<br/>
It was no light test that was thus brought upon Abraham, no small sacrifice that was required of him. There were strong ties to bind him to his country, his kindred, and his home. But he did not hesitate to obey the call. He had no question to ask concerning the land of promise—whether the soil was fertile and the climate healthful; whether the country afforded agreeable surroundings and would afford opportunities for amassing wealth. God has spoken, and His servant must obey; the happiest place on earth for him was the place where God would have him to be.<br/>
Many are still tested as was Abraham. They do not hear the voice of God speaking directly from the heavens, but He calls them by the teachings of His word and the events of His providence. They may be required to abandon a career that promises wealth and honor, to leave congenial and profitable associations and separate from kindred, to enter upon what appears to be only a path of self-denial, hardship, and sacrifice. God has a work for them to do; but a life of ease and the influence of friends and kindred would hinder the development of the very traits essential for its accomplishment. He calls them away from human influences and aid, and leads them to feel the need of His help, and to depend upon Him alone, that He may reveal Himself to them. Who is ready at the call of Providence to renounce cherished plans and familiar associations? Who will accept new duties and enter untried fields, doing God’s work with firm and willing heart, for Christ’s sake counting his losses gain? He who will do this has the faith of Abraham, and will share with him that “far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory.” 2 Corinthians 4:17.—Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 125–127.