---
title:  Abram and Lot
date:  03/05/2022
---

`Read Genesis 13:1–18. What does this story teach us about the importance of character?`

Abram returns to where he was before, as if his trip to Egypt were a mere unfortunate detour. God’s history with Abram starts again, where it had stopped since his first trip to the Promised Land. Abram’s first station is Bethel (Gen. 13:3), just as in his first trip to the land (Gen. 12:3–6). Abram has repented and is back to “himself”: Abram, the man of faith.

Abram’s reconnection with God already shows in his relationship with people, in the way that he handles the problem with Lot, his nephew, concerning the use of the land. It is Abram himself who proposes a peaceful agreement and allows Lot to choose first (Gen. 13:9, 10), an act of generosity and kindness indicative of the kind of man Abram was.

The fact that Lot chose the easiest and best part for himself—the well-watered plain (Gen. 13:10, 11)—without any concern about the wickedness of his future neighbors (Gen. 13:13) reveals something about his greediness and character. The phrase “for himself” reminds us of the antediluvians, who also chose “for themselves” (see Gen. 6:2).

In contrast, Abram’s move was an act of faith. Abram did not choose the land; it was given to him by God’s grace. Unlike Lot, Abram looked at the land only at God’s injunction (Gen. 13:14). It is only when Abram separates from Lot that God speaks to him again (Gen. 13:14). In fact, this is the first recorded time in the Bible that God speaks to Abram since his call at Ur. “ ‘Lift your eyes now and look from the place where you are—northward, southward, eastward, and westward; for all the land which you see I give to you and your descendants forever’ ” (Gen. 13:14, 15, NKJV). God, then, invites Abram to “ ‘walk’ ” on this land as an act of appropriation. “ ‘Arise, walk in the land through its length and its width, for I give it to you’ ” (Gen. 13:17, NKJV).

The Lord, though, makes it very clear that He, God, is giving it to Abram. It is a gift, a gift of grace, which Abram must appropriate by faith, a faith that leads to obedience. It is the work of God alone that will bring about all that He has promised to Abram here (see Gen. 13:14–17).

`How can we learn to be kind and generous to others, even when they aren’t that way to us?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom. But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord exceedingly. Genesis 13:12, 13.<br/>
The most fertile region in all Palestine was the Jordan valley. . . . There were cities also, wealthy and beautiful, inviting to profitable traffic in their crowded marts. Dazzled with visions of worldly gain, Lot overlooked the moral and spiritual evils that would be encountered there. . . . He “chose him all the plain of Jordan,” and “pitched his tent toward Sodom.” How little did he foresee the terrible results of that selfish choice!<br/>
Lot chose Sodom for his home because he saw that there were advantages to be gained there from a worldly point of view. But after he had established himself, and grown rich in earthly treasure, he was convinced that he had made a mistake in not taking into consideration the moral standing of the community in which he was to make his home.—Conflict and Courage, p. 48.

The Holy Scriptures give us marked examples of the exercise of true courtesy. Abraham was a man of God. When he pitched his tent he at once erected his altar for sacrifice and invited God to abide with him. Abraham was a courteous man. His life is not marred with selfishness, so hateful in any character and so offensive in the sight of God. Witness his conduct when about to separate from Lot. Though Lot was his nephew, and much younger than himself, and the first choice of the land belonged to Abraham, courtesy led him to forgo his right, and permit Lot to select for himself that part of the country which seemed to him most desirable. . . . Abraham knew what genuine politeness was and what was due from man to his fellow men.<br/>
We should be self-forgetful, ever . . . watching for opportunities to cheer others and lighten and relieve their sorrows and burdens by acts of tender kindness and little deeds of love. These thoughtful courtesies, that, commencing in our families, extend outside the family circle, help make up the sum of life’s happiness.—My Life Today, p. 192.

If we have Christ abiding with us, we shall be Christians at home as well as abroad. He who is a Christian will have kind words for his relatives and associates. He will be kind, courteous, loving, sympathetic, and will be educating himself for an abode with the family above. If he is a member of the royal family, he will represent the kingdom to which he is going. He will speak with gentleness to his children, for he will realize that they too are heirs of God, members of the heavenly court. Among the children of God no spirit of harshness dwells.—My Life Today, p. 196.