---
title:  The Tithe of Melchizedek
date:  05/05/2022
---

`Read Genesis 14:18–24 and Hebrews 7:1–10. Who was Melchizedek? Why did Abram give his tithe to this priest who seems to appear out of nowhere?`

The sudden appearance of the mysterious Melchizedek is not out of place. After Abram has been thanked by the Canaanite kings, he now thanks this priest, a thankfulness revealed by his paying his tithe to him.

Melchizedek comes from the city of Salem, which means “peace,” an appropriate message after the turmoil of war.

The component tsedek, “justice,” in the name of Melchizedek, appears in contrast to the name of the king of Sodom, Bera (“in evil”), and Gomorrah, Birsha (“in wickedness”), probably surnames for what they represent (Gen. 14:2).

Melchizedek appears after the reversal of the violence and evil represented by the other Canaanite kings. This passage also contains the first biblical reference to the word “priest” (Gen. 14:18). The association of Melchizedek with “God Most High” (Gen. 14:18, NKJV), whom Abram calls his own God (Gen. 14:22), clearly indicates that Abram saw him as priest of the God Abram served. Melchizedek is, however, not to be identified with Christ. He was God’s representative among the people of that time (see Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 1, pp. 1092, 1093).

Melchizedek officiates, indeed, as a priest. He serves “bread and wine,” an association that often implies the use of fresh-pressed grape juice (Deut. 7:13, 2 Chron. 31:5), which reappears in the context of the giving of the tithes (Deut. 14:23). In addition, he extends blessing to Abram (Gen. 14:19).

Abram, meanwhile, “gave him a tithe of all” (Gen. 14:20, NKJV) as a response to God the Creator, the “Possessor of heaven and earth” (Gen. 14:19, NKJV). This title alludes to the introduction of the Creation story (Gen. 1:1, NKJV), where the phrase “heavens and earth” means totality or “all.” As such, the tithe is understood as an expression of gratitude to the Creator, who owns everything (Heb. 7:2–6; compare with Gen. 28:22). Paradoxically, the tithe is understood by the worshiper not as a gift _to_ God, but as a gift _from_ God, because God gives us everything to begin with.

`Why is the act of returning tithe a powerful indicator of faith, as well as a great faith-building act?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God has never left Himself without witness on the earth. At one time Melchisedek represented the Lord Jesus Christ in person, to reveal the truth of heaven, and perpetuate the law of God.<br/>
It was Christ that spoke through Melchisedek, the priest of the most high God. Melchisedek was not Christ, but he was the voice of God in the world, the representative of the Father. And all through the generations of the past, Christ has spoken; Christ has led His people, and has been the light of the world. When God chose Abraham as a representative of His truth, He took him out of his country, and away from his kindred, and set him apart. He desired to mold him after His own model. He desired to teach him according to His own plan.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 1, pp. 1092, 1093.

In the Hebrew economy one tenth of the income of the people was set apart to support the public worship of God. . . .<br/>
But the tithing system did not originate with the Hebrews. From the earliest times the Lord claimed a tithe as His, and this claim was recognized and honored. Abraham paid tithes to Melchizedek, the priest of the most high God. Genesis 14:20. Jacob, when at Bethel, an exile and a wanderer, promised the Lord, “Of all that Thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto Thee.” Genesis 28:22. As the Israelites were about to be established as a nation, the law of tithing was reaffirmed as one of the divinely ordained statutes upon obedience to which their prosperity depended.<br/>
The system of tithes and offerings was intended to impress the minds of men with a great truth—that God is the source of every blessing to His creatures, and that to Him man’s gratitude is due for the good gifts of His providence.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 525.

Money is a blessing when those who use it consider that they are the Lord’s stewards, that they are handling the Lord’s capital, and must one day give account of their stewardship.<br/>
Does your account book reveal that you have dealt faithfully with your Lord? Are you poor? Then give your little. Have you been blessed with abundance? Then be sure to lay aside that which the Lord registers as His own. . . . The neglect to confess Christ in your account books cuts you off from the great privilege of having your name registered in the Lamb’s book of life.<br/>
Our heavenly Father teaches by His own example of beneficence. God gives to us regularly, freely, and abundantly. Every earthly blessing is from His hand. What if the Lord should cease to bestow His gifts upon us? What a cry of wretchedness, suffering, and want would go up from the earth! We need daily the unfailing flow of Jehovah’s love and goodness.—Our High Calling, p. 192.