---
title:  What Happens When We Die 
date:  20/12/2020
---

In the 1600s a French writer named Blaise Pascal wrote about what it meant to be human. One thing was very clear for Pascal: no matter how long a person lived or how good they were, sooner or later he or she will die.

Also, Pascal believed that whatever came after death was going to be a lot longer than the short time of life here on earth. So, for Pascal, the most important thing someone should do is discover what waits for us after we die. Pascal was surprised to see people get upset about everyday things: (1) losing a job or (2) getting into a fight with someone who insulted them. But these people did not care about what will happen after they die.

Pascal helps us to see something important about humans. The Bible talks about what waits for people who are saved in Jesus. It shows us God’s promise of what will wait for them in the future.

`Read John 6:54; John 3:16; 1 John 5:13; 1 Timothy 1:16; John 4:14; John 6:40; Jude 1:21; and Titus 3:7.`

The Cross helps us to understand everlasting life. God, the One who made the earth, came to this earth as a human baby. He made everything (Hebrews 1:2). He gives us life. Because of Him “we live and move and keep on living” (Acts 17:28, NLV). God came in a human body and that body died . . . and for what? So that we will just rot?

The Bible promises us a better end than that. That’s why the New Testament is filled with promises about everlasting life.

Pascal was right. Our time here is so limited compared with what God promises us. So, it is silly not to be ready for what God has waiting for us.

`What do you say to someone who doesn’t care about what happens after he or she dies? How can you help that person see just how foolish such thinking really is?`