---
title:  Then We Will Know 
date:  22/12/2020
---

“Heaven is school. In this school, we will study everything that God made. That includes all the stars and planets. This school has a teacher. It is God. God set up part of this school in Eden. When God is done saving us, then He will again start the school in Eden to educate humans.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 301, adapted.

If you are the same as most people, you have a lot of questions. Questions about sin, suffering, sickness, death, and about why things happened the way they did. We have questions about nature and all its mysteries. Yes, science has done a lot to help us understand more about life on this earth. But there is so much that we do not know.

Nature shows us that life is much bigger and deeper than our minds can now understand. From the stars in the sky above our heads to the smallest insects, we see that there is so much to study. But we have so little time here on this earth to study these things for ourselves.

But in heaven, things will be different. We will have forever to study all the secrets of nature. For sure, we will learn the answers to a lot of mysteries.

**What do the verses below tell us about what we will learn when sin, suffering, and death end?**

`1 Corinthians 13:12`

`1 Corinthians 4:5`

God promises us that He will help us understand things that we cannot understand now. Then we will praise God! This is a wonderful promise! For now, we must hold on to our faith until the end. We must trust in God’s promises and live what we know. The good news is each of us can say that “Christ [Jesus] is the one who gives me the strength I need to do whatever I must do” (Philippians 4:13, ERV).