---
title:  The School In The Next Life 
date:  23/12/2020
---

“We have small troubles for a while now, but these troubles are helping us gain an eternal [everlasting] glory. That eternal glory is much greater than our troubles. So we think about what we cannot see, not what we see. What we see lasts [continues] only a short time, and what we cannot see will last forever” (2 Corinthians 4:17–19, ERV). What hope do these verses give us? What do you think are some of these everlasting things that we wait for and that Jesus promises us? (Also read Revelation 21:1, 2; Revelation 2:7; Revelation 7:14–17.)

God offers us many promises in Jesus. These promises are wonderful and real. We have many good reasons for believing in them too. At the same time, the Bible gives us only hints of what God has planned for us. But we can be sure of one thing: life with God is going to be beautiful. Think how wonderful life will be with no sin!

Also think about all our pain and suffering, all the sin and the bad things that happen to us because of sin. Jesus came to end all that. Then He will make the earth new again. It will be the way God planned it to be before sin. Really, it will be better. We will always be able to look at the scars on Jesus’ hands and feet. These scars show us how much it cost God to save us.

“At that time, we shall see what we cannot see now. Our eyes shall see the beauty of the earth. We will be able to see with our own eyes the beauty that we can see now only with a microscope. Then we will look with our own eyes at the stars and planets that we can see now only with a telescope. Sin and its stain will be removed from the earth. The whole earth shall be seen in ‘the beauty of the Lord our God.’ There the student of science may look at all God has made and see nothing of evil and death. The student may listen to the music of nature’s voices. He will not hear any note of crying or sorrow. The student may see God’s name written by God’s own hand on everything He made. Not one sign of sickness will be seen in earth, sea, or sky.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 303, adapted.

`Try to make a picture in your mind of living forever in a new earth. What things are you most excited about in that life? What do you want to do and see the most?`