---
title:  The Mighty Teacher 
date:  24/12/2020
---

As we saw this whole quarter, one important part of Jesus’ work on earth was teaching. From the start of His work for God on earth, Jesus never stopped teaching His followers Bible truths about Himself, the Father, being saved, and the hope that waits for us in heaven (read Matthew 5:2; Mark 4:2; Luke 19:47; and John 6:59.)

Just look at any of the Gospels. The Gospels are the first four books in the New Testament: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Any Gospel will show you that Jesus is always teaching. Now, Jesus continues to teach us from the Bible. On the new earth, Jesus will continue teaching us too. But think about how different learning will be when we can live without the pain of sin and the limits it puts on us.

“But other people will say, ‘Then what are these wounds in your hands?’ He will say, ‘I was beaten in the house of my friends’ ” (Zechariah 13:6, ERV). What do you think this verse is talking about?

“The years of our everlasting life will show us more beautiful knowledge about God and Jesus. Knowledge grows fuller with time. Love, respect for God, and happiness will also grow deeper with time. The more men learn about God, the more they will love Him. Jesus shows us the truth about God’s plan to save sinners. Jesus also shows us the wonderful things God did in the war between good and evil. Then the hearts of the saved will be filled with more love for God. With joy, they will touch their gold harps. Many millions of voices will join in singing praise to God. . . .

“The worldwide war between God and Satan is done. Sin and sinners are no more. All heaven is clean. Peace and harmony fill everything God made. Life, light, and joy flow everywhere from the One who made everything. That includes the smallest atom to the biggest planet. All things living and not living in perfect joy and beauty say God is love.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 678, adapted.

`We will learn many exciting things in heaven. But nothing we learn will excite us more than Jesus’ death for us on the cross. Think about how important this topic must be if we will study it forever. How can you learn now to better understand what Jesus did for us on the cross?`