---
title:  Further Thought
date:  25/12/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The School of the Hereafter,” pages 301–309 in Education; “The Controversy Ended,” pages 662–678, in The Great Controversy.

“We fear the lion now. But on the New Earth, the lion will lie down with the lamb. There will be only peace and harmony in the New Earth. The trees of the New Earth will be straight and tall. There will be nothing ugly about them. . . .

“We should let everything on this earth help us remember our home in heaven. In heaven there will be the crystal river and green fields. There will be the bright city and the singers wearing white clothes. Heaven will be a place of beauty. No artist can make a picture of it. No person can write about it in words. So, make a picture of heaven in your mind. Heaven is the home of the saved. Remember, that the real heaven will be more beautiful and bright than any picture you can make in your mind.”—Ellen G. White, Heaven, pages 133, 134, adapted.

“Some people are afraid of the teaching that heaven is a real place. So, this has led many people to teach that heaven is only a word picture. They do not look at heaven as our home. Jesus told His followers that He went to heaven to make rooms for them in His Father’s house. People who accept Bible truth will know something about our home in heaven. . . . Human words cannot show us the beauty of heaven. It will be known only to the ones who see it. No human mind can fully understand heaven and its glory.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 674, 675, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think more about Pascal’s idea that many people don’t really care about everlasting life. Why do you think people are that way? Why is this thinking wrong?`

`Why is the hope of everlasting life so important to our faith? Without that hope, why do we really have nothing to live for?`

`Think about all the mysteries on this earth: in the rocks, plants, and stars. Even the most simple life on this earth is not so simple. Each new discovery shows us more questions that need answering. How does this help us understand how much we will be learning in our life in heaven and on the New Earth?`