---
title:  "Prayer Power: Asking God to Help People"
date:   18/07/2020
---

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON**:

Revelation 12:7–9; Luke 3:21; Ephesians 1:15–21; Daniel 10:10–14; 1 Samuel 12:22–24.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “So always tell each other the wrong things you have done. Then pray for each other. Do this so that God can heal you. Anyone who lives the way God wants can pray, and great [wonderful] things will happen” (James 5:16, ERV).

THE NEW TESTAMENT CHURCH MEMBERS feel their need for prayer. “After the believers prayed, the place where they were meeting shook. They were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they continued to speak God’s message without fear” (Acts 4:31, ERV). Look at what happens. First, Jesus’ followers pray. They are filled with the Holy Spirit. Then they share the Good News about Jesus without any fear.

Here we see a connection between prayer, being filled with the Holy Spirit, and sharing Bible truth. “Jesus’ followers do not ask God to bless them alone. They feel the need to pray for people. Jesus’ followers know that they must share the Good News everywhere on earth. So, they ask God for the power that Jesus promises them.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 37, adapted.

We also must ask God to save people. Then God will work in our hearts. He will bring us close to Him. He will give us wisdom to know how to bring people into His kingdom (James 1:5). God will work in their lives in a powerful way. We may not always see how God works or understand it. But God is working in their lives (1 John 5:14–17).
