---
title:  THE BIG WAR BETWEEN GOOD AND EVIL
date:   19/07/2020
---

`Compare Revelation 12:7–9; Ephesians 6:12; and 2 Corinthians 10:4. These verses show us we are in a war between good and evil. How do you think prayer helps us win this fight against evil?`

The Bible tells us about a war that we cannot always see. It is a worldwide war between good and evil. It is a war between light and darkness, or Jesus and Satan. In this war, God respects our free choice. He never will force anyone to do anything. In this war, God sends His Holy Spirit to help men and women understand Bible truth (John 16:7, 8). Angels from heaven fight in this war between good and evil. They help people choose everlasting life (Hebrews 1:14). God also plans for special things to happen in our lives to lead us to Him.

What God will not do is force someone to choose Him. That goes against God’s kingdom and His love. Love is the foundation for God’s government. That is why prayer is so important. God is doing everything He can to save people before we pray. But when we pray, our prayers cause God to pour out His love and power on other people. God respects our freedom to pray for other people. He can do more to help them than when we do not pray.

Read this carefully: “There are things that God will give us only when we ask Him. He will not give us these things if we do not ask Him. So, we must ask for them in prayer. This is part of God’s plan for us.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 525, adapted. Our prayers change lives in the worldwide war between good and evil. So, that is why we must pray for people who do not know Jesus. Our prayers will cause God to bless their lives. Then He will work even harder to save them.

We need to always remember something important about our prayers for people. Yes, we do not fully understand how God works in other people’s lives when we pray. But we need to continue praying for them and for ourselves anyway.

`Why do you think God works more for people when we pray for them than when we do not pray? Maybe we do not fully understand how our prayers for other people work. But the Bible tells us to continue to pray for them anyway. Why should we do what the Bible says?`
