---
title:  JESUS PRAYS FOR US
date:   20/07/2020
---

`Read Luke 3:21; Luke 5:16; and Luke 9:18. What do these verses tell you about the connection between Jesus’ prayer life and His success in His work for God?`

Jesus communicates with His Father in heaven His whole life. Look at Jesus’ baptism. At that time, Jesus prays for God’s power to help Him do God’s work. The Holy Spirit helps Jesus. Jesus understands that prayer is a mighty weapon. Jesus prays when He feeds 5,000 men. Jesus prays when He heals the man with the bad rash on his skin. Jesus prays when He frees the man filled with thousands of demons. Jesus prays because He knows that prayer will help Him win the fight against evil. Prayer is part of God’s plan for His power to help us in our weakness. Prayer is God’s way of bringing us up to God. God alone can touch the hearts of the people that we pray for.

`Read Luke 22:31–34. What does Jesus say to Peter in Luke 22:31–34 to encourage him? How do these words help Peter when he fails soon after? Now read Hebrews 7:25. How does Jesus encourage us when we fail or want to do what is wrong?`

People who win souls to Jesus are men and women who pray. Jesus prays for Peter by name. Jesus tells Peter that during the hardest time in Peter’s life, Jesus will be praying for him. Satan understands very well God’s plans for Peter and the good work that Peter can do for God. So, Satan plans to do everything possible to destroy Peter’s chance to help the Christian church grow. During this whole time, Jesus prays for Peter. God answers Jesus’ prayers. Jesus prays for us too. Isn’t that exciting? Jesus invites us to join Him in His work of praying for people. He wants us to pray for them by name in front of His throne.

So, we should never stop praying for people. Then we show that we depend fully on God to save the ones we pray for.

`Are you praying for anyone now? Why is it so important to never give up, even if you feel there is no hope?`
