---
title: 'Paul’s Prayers For People'
date: 21/07/2020
---

We pray for people because the Bible tells us to. That is why Paul prays. Paul prays for new believers in the churches that he starts. Paul believes that something powerful happens when he prays. But it will not happen if he does not pray. Paul often is separated from the people he loves. But he knows that he can be with them in his heart if he prays for them.

`Read Ephesians 1:15–21. On the line below, list the different things that Paul asks God to give the Ephesian church members. What does Paul ask God to give to them?`

Paul asks God to give the Ephesian Christians wisdom and spiritual eyesight. Paul wants God to fill their minds with divine truth. Paul also wants God to fill their hearts with the hope of everlasting life. Paul prays that the Ephesians will see God’s mighty power at work in their lives. God is so powerful and mighty that He woke up Jesus from the dead. This act also is known as the Resurrection. The Resurrection is the foundation of our hope for everlasting life in Jesus. Paul ends his prayer by telling the Ephesians about all the riches that they have in Jesus. How do you think Paul’s words made the Ephesians feel? They must have felt encouraged. They knew Paul prayed for them. They also knew what he prayed about.

`Read Philippians 1:3–11. Look at the way Paul says things. Let us say you are a Philippian church member. And you get a letter from Paul. In his letter, he tells you that he prays for you. He also tells you what he prays about. How will that make you feel, and why? What Bible promises do you find in Paul’s words? What warnings do you also find there?`

Paul’s words in Philippians 1:3–11 are some of the most encouraging words in the whole Bible. These verses are filled with promises. They also ask us to let God fill our hearts with His love, knowledge, and spiritual understanding. These things come only from our knowing Jesus. Then we can become everything that God wants us to be.
