---
title: 'The Powers Of Good And Evil At Work'
date: 22/07/2020
---

Our prayers for people are a mighty weapon in the worldwide war between good and evil. We call this war the great controversy. Daniel 10 shows us one of the best examples of how this war is fought.

Let’s understand this chapter better by looking at Jeremiah’s words. Do you remember how Jeremiah says that the Jews will be slaves to the Babylonians for 70 years? At the end of Daniel’s life, this time of Jewish slavery is about to end. But Daniel is worried. He sees little proof that Jeremiah’s words will happen. The Jews are not free.

Then the Medes and the Persians beat the Babylonians in war. But the Jews continue to be slaves. So, Daniel prays for three weeks. During that time, he eats only plain food. Daniel prays with all his heart for his people. At the end of three weeks, an angel comes to Daniel.

`Read Daniel 10:10–14. As these verses show us, when does God hear Daniel’s prayers? What stops God from answering Daniel’s prayers right away?`

Daniel 10:10–14 is exciting. Let us try to understand it more fully. We must first know who the people are in these verses. Who is the prince of the kingdom of Persia? It is not Cyrus. Cyrus is the king of Persia. So, “the prince of Persia” (Daniel 10:13, ERV) must be Satan. Jesus names Satan “ ‘the prince of this world [earth]’ ” (John 12:31, NIrV) or “ ‘the leader of this world’ ” (John 14:30, NLV). Paul names Satan “the leader of the power of darkness” (Ephesians 2:2, NLV). So, if the Prince of Persia is Satan, who is Michael? The name “Michael” is written five times in the Bible (Revelation 12:7; Jude 9; Daniel 10:13, 21; and Daniel 12:1). The name Michael means “Who is like God?” The Bible uses the name Michael to show us Jesus. Michael is the leader of all the angels who fight against Satan. Jesus is everlasting. He always has been alive. He has all power. He is God’s Son. One of Jesus’ jobs as the Leader of all the angels is to beat Satan. Jesus will destroy Satan in the future.

Daniel 10 shows us the war between good and evil. As Daniel prays, Michael comes from heaven. Michael, as we saw, is Jesus. Michael fights back the armies of hell. Maybe we cannot see what Jesus does. But Jesus hears all our prayers. He is hard at work answering our prayers too.
