---
title:  WHAT SHOULD WE ASK FOR WHEN WE PRAY FOR PEOPLE?
date:   23/07/2020
---

In the Bible, we see that people who pray ask God to help them do certain things. Prayer is not just some deep wish or feeling. No, prayer is asking God for exactly what we need and what other people need. Jesus prays for His followers. Paul prays for the Ephesian, Philippian, and Colossian Christians. Paul also prays for his young helpers, Timothy, Titus, and John Mark.

`Read 1 Samuel 12:22–24 and Job 16:21. What is the same about these verses? What do they tell us about praying for people?`

Both Samuel and Job talk about our need for praying with all our hearts. Samuel’s words are strong. He cries out, “ ‘If I stopped praying for you, I would be sinning against the Lord’ ” (1 Samuel 12:23, ERV). Job tells us what a friend does: “ ‘He speaks to God for me, like [the same as] someone presenting [asking] an argument [a favor; blessing] for a friend’ ” (Job 16:21, ERV).

`Read 1 John 5:14–16. What happens when we pray for people?`

When we pray for people, God pours His blessing on them. He pours water from the river of life on us. This water flows from heaven’s throne. It flows from God to us and from us to the people we pray for. This water is a word picture for God’s blessings. Satan’s whole army is afraid when they hear us pray with our whole hearts for God’s blessings. Ellen G. White talks about the power of prayer: “Satan cannot stand it when we pray to his powerful enemy, Jesus. Satan is afraid of Jesus’ power. Satan shakes with fear at Jesus’ strength and royal glory. When we pray, Satan’s whole army shakes with fear.”—Testimonies for the Church, volume 1, page 346, adapted.

`Read Matthew 18:18, 19. What do these verses teach us about the power of our words when we pray? How do these verses encourage us to pray with other people for the ones who do not know the Lord?`
