---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 24/07/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Privilege of Prayer,” pages 93–104, in Steps to Christ; “Work for Church Members,” pages 19–24, in Testimonies for the Church, volume 7.

When we pray for people, we show God that we depend on Him. God honors our faith in Him. He uses all the power in heaven to change human lives. When our prayers come to God’s throne, God orders His angels to help us. “Angels wait around God’s throne. They wait to obey Jesus’ commands right away. Jesus sends them in answer to every prayer that we offer to Him in living faith.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 2, page 377, adapted.

We are told that not one prayer we pray is lost. God does not forget any of our prayers. God collects all our prayers in heaven. They will be answered at the time and place that God knows best. “The prayer of faith is not ever lost. So, we must not expect God to answer every prayer for what we want in the exact way that we want it answered. That is wrong.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 1, page 231, adapted.

These words give us a lot of encouragement as we pray for people who do not know Jesus. These people may include our husbands, wives, sons, daughters, family members, friends, and coworkers. Not one prayer of faith is ever lost. We may not always see answers to our prayers right away. But God moves on their hearts in ways that we will know only when we are in heaven.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Read Philippians 1:19; Colossians 4:2, 3; and 2 Thessalonians 3:1, 2. While Paul is a prisoner, what hope does he have because of the Philippians’ prayers? What does Paul ask the Colossians and Thessalonians to pray for? What do these prayers show us about winning souls for Jesus?`

`2. Think about the great controversy, or the worldwide war between good and evil. It is the story behind all that happens here on earth! How does your knowledge of this war help you understand why prayer is so important?`

`3. What are some of the things that stop God from answering our prayers? What excuses do you make to get out of praying for the people who need your prayers?`
