---
title:  Vulnerable or Victorious
date:  25/05/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 4:1–10**

**Vulnerable or Victorious**

Bernie Madoff is infamous for orchestrating one of the largest financial frauds in U.S. history, swindling thousands out of billions of dollars. Many of the victims were elderly or inexperienced investors who trusted Madoff’s promises of large profits on their investments. His Ponzi scheme eventually collapsed, leading to his arrest and imprisonment. With the exception of some small court-ordered payouts, the victims suffered a total loss on their investments.

As most people know, deception is a common tool used to exploit others, especially the disadvantaged, uneducated, and vulnerable. This practice can be seen in many industries. For decades, the tobacco business aimed its deceptive marketing methods at vulnerable populations, such as young people and low-income communities. These practices included downplaying the health risks of smoking and promoting cigarettes as glamorous or trendy. This exploitation led to widespread addiction and many health issues among these targeted groups. Similarly, some pharmaceutical companies have fueled the opioid crisis by aggressively marketing prescription painkillers, downplaying their addictive nature, and encouraging overprescription. This, too, has led to widespread addiction and many overdoses and deaths, particularly among underprivileged populations.

These sinful tactics originated with the archdeceiver, Satan, who has perfected his craft and successfully led billions astray. Believers are not immune to his attacks; we are not completely shielded from his temptations, so how are we to face his schemes and deceptions? How do we overcome him? How do we gain victory while living in the great controversy? This week’s lesson will focus on the power of God’s Word as we face Satan’s attacks.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 4:1–10 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 4. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._