---
title:  The Word is Truth
date:  26/05/2024
---

#### inGest

Winston Churchill said, “The truth is incontrovertible. Malice may attack it, ignorance may deride it, but in the end, there it is” (Memoirs of the Second World War [1959]). Truth has become a rather relative term in recent years. “You have your truth, and I have mine” is a statement that some live by, but is illogical because one person’s truth often directly contradicts someone else’s. How can two contradictory statements both be right when truth at its very foundation is objective, universal, and absolute?

Unfortunately, human beings don’t have access to a document or database that provides every true statement to ever exist. Because of this deficit, we’ve needed (and wanted) to gather truth for ourselves. This desire has led to the development of different resources such as encyclopedias, scientific journals, newspapers, search engines, and artificial intelligence to help provide a common basis for what can be broadly accepted as true. Humans have a longing to discover truth.

From a biblical standpoint, truth is who God is. He Himself proclaims it—Jesus said, rather simply, “I am... the truth” (John 14:6). As the Creator, God defines reality. Everything He says and does is perfectly honorable and contains no contradictions. All of existence stems from who He is. “Your word is truth” (John 17:17), says Jesus, and by His truth and reality-defining words, all things were created.

When Satan tempted Jesus in the wilderness, he did not approach the Son of God with obvious lies but with deceptive questions and misapplied scripture, or truth. These misapplications were attempts to get Jesus to act selfishly and sinfully—to doubt His Father and His Messianic identity. Satan knows that if he can chisel a crack into the foundation of one’s convictions and beliefs, he can gain access to their thinking and sow doubts that spread like weeds, aiming to choke the faith and life out of his victim.

When Jesus lived among us, He had the exact same resources available to Him as we do. He understood that on this broken, confused planet, the only safety is in the Word of God—the truth. He found His identity not in feelings or opinions, but in the inspired, God-breathed scriptures alone. Jesus met Satan’s every deceptive attack with, “It is written.” Christ exemplified Psalm 119:11, which says, “Your word I have hidden in my heart, that I might not sin against You.”

As we go through this life, we are constantly bombarded with opinions, assertions, and claims about truth. Satan works hard to deceive everyone with his lies, half-truths, and misapplications of the truth. His agenda is not just to get you to sin but to keep you confused about truth and prevent you from sharing truth with others. Knowing that “the truth shall make you free” (John 8:32), the enemy tries to keep you in bondage to his lies. How extremely vital it is, then, to build our lives on God’s true Word, the only firm foundation! How crucial it is to test all things by the Bible, to be not only familiar with Scripture but immersed in it! If we do so, we have a powerful reference point on which to base our decisions as well as protection when confusion, temptation, and lies burst through our doors. “Your words were found, and I ate them, and Your word was to me the joy and rejoicing of my heart” (Jer. 15:16).

Journal:

`When was the last time you internalized and memorized Scripture?`

`What’s the difference between knowing truthful statements, such as scriptures, and knowing the Truth—Jesus?`