---
title:  The Word Has Power
date:  27/05/2024
---

#### inTerpret

History records many more languages than are currently spoken. Some have become extinct while others have evolved or merged with other languages over time. It is estimated that today there are around seven thousand spoken languages and between four and five thousand written ones. The entire Bible has been translated into more than seven hundred languages, and parts of it have been translated into over three thousand languages. There’s still a large work to be done to deliver the life-changing power of God’s Word to all peoples, tribes, and nations!

No matter what language it’s shared in, the Bible will always impart a message of truth and transformation to believing and Spirit-led hearers. The transformative power of God’s Word goes back to Genesis 1, where God created something out of nothing by merely speaking it into existence. When He speaks, atoms, molecules, and elements burst into being and form structures, cells, and systems of organic and inorganic matter. Nature and science do as His voice instructs. God’s creative word is not diminished by any change, whether it be of language or medium—from audible voice to written word. “So shall My word be that goes forth from My mouth; it shall not return to Me void, but it shall accomplish what I please, and it shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it” (Isa. 55:11).

The creative and transformative qualities of God’s words are not limited to the physical realm; they apply to the spiritual life as well. However, because God is love and never forces us, He respects our choices. What His Word can and will do in our lives depends entirely on our attitudes and decisions. God’s promises and commands can only be effective if we choose to trust and believe in the Promise Giver. To put it simply, God’s Word has the potential to flood our lives with divine power and grace, but it can only be “activated” when faith is present.

It was the memorized and internalized Word of God—Bible truth—that unmasked Satan’s deceptions when he tempted Jesus in the desert, and it was the spoken Word of God that granted Christ victory over both the tempter and his temptations (i.e., “It is written...” [Matt. 4:4, 7, 10]). Jesus understood the Bible as His source of truth. He validated and exemplified its power when He walked among us, utilizing it to guide His ministry and triumph over Satan and his schemes. As believers, we have access to God’s inspired, powerful, truthful Word. We are privileged to experience God’s creative power working in us for our sanctification and to witness Him providing victory over Satan as we deal with the great controversy that permeates our lives. God’s Word has the power to create life where there is only death, to give victory where there is nothing but defeat. The promises of the Bible are saturated with assurances of God’s healing power in every area of life.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can you use God’s Word to combat everyday challenges and temptations?`