---
title:  The Word Made Flesh
date:  29/05/2024
---

#### inVite

Anyone who has been in a long-distance romantic relationship knows how special handwritten letters from your partner are, especially in this digital age. Love letters are small, physical representations of a larger reality. Along with other forms of communication, such letters make the times of separation a bit more bearable. But of course, nothing compares to when the two reunite in person.

The Word is God’s love letter to humanity. The narratives, prophecies, and instructions within the Bible communicate God’s heart and most foundational quality: love. It’s truly wonderful that humanity has been given this love letter, which has spoken to untold billions throughout the millennia. God ensured that “All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work” (2 Tim. 3:16). His guiding hand was on the entire development of Scripture. We can have confidence that the process of gathering the various biblical books as well as the words within them were divinely orchestrated.

As we know, God went above and beyond all He ever had to do for us. His desire to be with us, as repeatedly expressed in His love letter, led to the grandest manifestation of God to humanity in all history: Jesus. “The Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth” (John 1:14). The Bible was written to communicate God’s Word; Jesus came to demonstrate God’s Word. Consider the following parallels between the Bible, the Word versus Jesus, the Word.

The Bible, the Word:Jesus, the Word:Is the written Word of God.Is the Word of God made flesh.Was written in human languages.Became human and lived as one of us.Contains languages and expressions that have human limitations.Had a human body and experienced human limitations.Was written during specific times, in specific places, and in various cultural circumstances.Was born into a specific time, place, and cultural circumstance.Was written by humans but authored by the Spirit, making its words fully
human and fully divine.Was born to a human woman but was the Son of God, making Him fully human
and fully divine.Should be understood not only as human words but also as God’s Word.Should be understood not only as the Son of Man but also as the Son of
God.

Jesus
is the Word made flesh. He experienced life with us, as one of us. He
understands the human experience with all its pains, challenges, and problems.
He can perfectly provide for our needs because He knows exactly what it’s like.
His incarnation teaches us that God is truly our Immanuel; He is with
us, and He is for us! Jesus came to show us the love of God that had
already been promised in His written Word.

Journal:

`Meditate on Matthew 4:1–10 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`If Jesus is the Word made flesh, how should this impact your devotional time and the way you approach Bible study?`

`How do you see Jesus differently in the light of this week’s lesson?`