---
title:  Babylon and Armageddon
date:   16/06/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “On her forehead a name was written: MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH” (Rev. 17:5, NKJV).

**The End of Days?**

**Introduction**: 1 Kings 18:1–40

Let’s begin this week’s study by facing a hard truth: the topic of Armageddon is gritty and can stir uncomfortable emotions as we engage in deep study. Now, let’s back up that hard truth with an absolute: Jesus Christ is with us always, even to the very end of the age. The lessons for this quarter may be difficult at times, but we have been given a greater promise, directly from Jesus Himself, that we need not worry because that which awaits us is far greater than any trouble that this world can muster.

As I study history, I am often struck by the darkness and ruthlessness of humanity. The Spanish Inquisition, the Holocaust, the Rwandan genocide; I cannot even imagine having to live through these kinds of experiences. Will the last days be like this? Worse? These events have provided humanity with broader historical lessons.

A response to the Inquisition has been a push against religious abuses of power. Since the Holocaust, much of the world has held deep views against racism and anti-Semitism. And after the Rwandan genocide, there was a national reconciliation that has led to two decades of peace and a new Christian wave in that country. Events such as these show us that there are absolute right and wrong sides of history. While it may have been difficult for a German citizen during World War II to make a dedicated stand against what was happening in that country, history shows us that such people were heroes of the war.

First Kings 18 provides such a story from Scripture. What must the prophets of God have felt like as they were rushed into hiding in caves, marked for death? The darkness of the heart of Jezebel can hardly be imagined as she sought to systematically wipe out all of the followers of God. While it may be easy to assume that the choice that faced the children of Israel should have been more obvious or easy to make, we should not be so quick to judge.

Standing up in the face of evil or standing alone for God in this world is no easy task. Many of the children of Israel continued to ride the fence between Baal and God. Yet, Elijah’s ministry showed the people that sides must be taken for or against God, and, ultimately, there was victory on Mount Carmel.

Life today can be equally difficult to navigate. Sometimes it is difficult to tell the difference between truth and lies in our world of media blitz and sensation. But God’s Word reveals an absolute side that we can take that will make us heroes of history.

_Craig Mattson, Lake Tapps, Washington, USA_