---
title:  '“Armageddon: The End of Days”'
date:   17/06/2018
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 3:11, 12

The phrase Armageddon: the end of days can be very frightening to hear, especially if it is said to us by someone with a little authority. If this was the lead story in the news or if your pastor began to proclaim that Armageddon was now upon us, most of us would not be immune to a natural sense of fear. Many had hoped that things would be running more smoothly after a rough year last year; however, what we see in the world around us is greater divisiveness among people, deeper complications in society, rising social anxiety, and even fear. This sociocultural atmosphere has permeated almost every area of our lives—politics, weather and natural disasters, financial markets, religion, and so on.

As we read and reflect on the words of Revelation this quarter, they can either amplify our anxiety or provide a sense of peace knowing that we have a present truth that will result in meeting our Savior face to face. I choose the latter of these two responses to the reading of Revelation. But this word Armageddon is a very intimidating word; let it not be an emotional stumbling block.

In 1998 Hollywood produced a movie with this ominous title, Armageddon. The movie Armageddon told a fictional story about a huge asteroid that was to strike the earth, completely destroying and killing all living things. (Sounds like the end of Nebuchadnezzar’s vision in Daniel 2 when the rock strikes the feet of the statue.) The heroes of this motion picture fly to the asteroid in futuristic space shuttles and save the world by blowing up the giant rock before it collides with earth. Since this film was made, a host of other movies and TV shows have been created by Hollywood that use end-of-the-world events as the basis of the plot. Somehow, in many of these, humanity saves itself. This may be entertaining to watch, but there is a deep deception here. Humanity cannot save itself. We need a Savior.

One day soon, when the events of the end of the world have played out, the old ways will have passed away and a new creation in Christ will replace the chaos of this world. A full reading of Revelation reveals that Christ, and not humanity, is the answer and that while our world may see a great struggle at the end of time, salvation is the end of the story. Jesus tells us in Revelation 3:11, 12 that “ ‘I am coming soon. Hold on to what you have, so that no one will take your crown. The one who is victorious I will make a pillar in the temple of my God’ ” (NIV).

_M. Lizzette Mattson, Lake Tapps, WA USA_