---
title:  Armageddon
date:   18/06/2018
---

**Logos**: Rev. 16:16

**1 Kings 18:1–40**

The word Armageddon is derived from two Hebrew words: har, which means mount or series of mountains; and megiddo, the name of a Canaanite city that Joshua conquered. From this, the word Armageddon can be translated as “Mount of Megiddo.” This name refers to an ancient fortification built by King Ahab.

The physical location of battles is a very symbolic mechanism in Scripture. Just as Elijah’s mission was to call the children of Israel to make an absolute decision for or against God, so, too, is our church called to take the message of the end time to the world, calling people to make the same final decision. As the three ambassadors of Satan mentioned in Revelation 18 go throughout the world fulfilling their mission and recruiting kings, the field of battle is far more extensive than the literal Mount Megiddo; the final battlefield of Armageddon is the whole earth, and it has universal implications.

Students are exposed to the anti-God agenda in schools and universities around the world, and it has been popularized in our media. There is little doubt that today evil has multiplied. Matthew 24:11 speaks of many false prophets who will rise and blaspheme against God. Satan is scheming an incredibly cunning plan as his ultimate weapon against the people of God. The enemy is desperate because he knows that with each passing day he has less time before the second coming of Christ.

**Revelation 17:1–14**

Legend has it that one of the most absurd battles of history occurred in the first century b.c. when the emperor of the Roman Empire, Caligula, declared war on the god of the sea, Poseidon. The Roman soldiers are said to have gone to the coast and stabbed the water with their spears and swords. They then took seashells out of the sea as spoils of war.

The Bible teaches that there will be an even bigger, inconceivable battle that will take place between God and His enemies: the battle of Armageddon.

This battle pits woman (the church) against beast (Satan), and all in the world will have to take sides. Which side will you pick?

**Revelation 16:12–16**

The only place in the Bible where the word Armageddon is mentioned is in Revelation 16:16. In verses 12–16, several elements and symbols appear. While the great river Euphrates is the location of the old city of Babylon, the “Babylon” of the modern world is a global entity with religious and geopolitical power. The mention of modern-day Babylon also refers to vast waters, which in Scripture symbolize masses of people. The people symbolized by the vast waters will unite against the people of God on earth. The unfortunate reality is that as we near the end, many will be deceived and wooed into a lifestyle marked by false teachings.

**Daniel 5**

Belshazzar was in his glory. At the apparent height of the Babylonian Empire, the citizens of Babylon and King Belshazzar himself couldn’t have imagined that an enemy would ever be capable of infiltrating the city. Who would dare to defy Babylon in all her glory? So, drunk on a false sense of security, the king threw a great party celebrating all manner of debauchery.

At this event, the hand of the Lord appeared, inscribing words on the wall that foretold the divine judgment on Babylon. At this point, the river Euphrates was dried up, allowing the Medo-Persian army to pass under the walls of the city. Thus began the conquest of the Babylonian Empire.

This story not only chronicles historical events but is also an allegory to end-time events. Just like the king and the drunken citizens of Babylon, we may not realize that the enemy is standing just on the other side of the metaphorical wall, ready to strike. Vigilance and preparedness will make the difference and enable us to take sides with Christ.

**Revelation 16:16**

The apostle John refers to the events of Daniel 5 in Revelation, referencing the drying up of the Euphrates River, thereby symbolizing the weakening of modern-day Babylon and the point at which the world powers will withdraw support from God and His followers. Satan will then send three ambassadors of evil to try to finish his work against God: the dragon, the beast, and the false prophet, who, without any mask, will encourage all peoples to fight against the remnant of the Lamb as the final deception. All the armies of the earth will be gathered together for a definitive battle to exterminate those who are faithful to God.

A lot of the symbols in these texts need deep study and reflection to be fully understood. For those who choose to dive into a full study of Daniel and Revelation, some of the themes that are presented include an apostate Protestant church, a power-hungry papacy, spiritualism, and the antichrist. No matter how the final events actually play out, the narrative of Revelation is quite clear that it will be a time of great upheaval and suffering.

**React**

`1. What could apostate Protestantism look like?`

`2. What signs in the modern-day world do you see that could point toward a nearing of the end?`

`3. In your personal opinion, what is the most shocking aspect of Revelation? Why?`

_Edgar Eduardo Carpintero, Universidad de Montemorelos, Nuevo Leon, Mexico_