---
title:  Be Ready, Be Alert!
date:   20/06/2018
---

**How-to**: 1 Pet. 5:8; Rev. 18:1–10

Each one of us is called to stand for what is right even if we find ourselves standing alone. It is not easy to choose what is right, and sometimes doing so requires a big sacrifice.

General Dwight Eisenhower is reported to have said, “War is a terrible thing. But if you’re going to get into it, you’ve got to get into it all the way.”* But before we offer practical advice, let’s consider what the Bible says about Babylon and what ultimately led to its demise.

In Revelation 18:1–10 the great city is about to be destroyed, and it explains why. This city and its people did not stand for what was right; they befriended the world and forgot about God; they did not humble themselves before God and did not keep His commandments. And after all these things, Babylon had to face the consequences of its actions, the fall (verses 6, 8).

Considering the narrative, we can see the great need for turning our eyes upon Jesus and letting Him lead us so that we can stand firm, keeping ourselves pure no matter what situation we face. Consider the following steps for your spiritual growth that will also equip you to succeed in your spiritual life:

1. Pray (Eph. 6:18; Mark 11:24). Pray all the time with perseverance, believing God will answer (Luke 18:1; Col. 4:2). Perseverance in prayer will prepare our minds to know God’s will.

2. Study the Word of God (John 5:39; 2 Tim. 3:16). Only through deep study of Scripture can we know God and have access to eternal life. Reading the Bible will shape us over time, making us more like Him.

3. Let your light shine, sharing with others (Matt. 5:14–16). If we really have Jesus in our hearts, we will share Him with others without any fear.

4. Be faithful in the small things (Luke 16:10). If we really want to overcome the obstacles in life and be faithful in the hardest times, we need to start being faithful with the small things.

**React**

`1. What can you do to keep the balance between being in the world but not part of the same?`

`2. Identify potential risks that Satan could use to make you fail in your Christian experience.`

`3. How can you be alert and at the same time remain confident in thinking about the future?`

<sup>* Irving Risch and Pat Christenson, Audio Study in the Book of Hebrews, lesson 12.</sup>

_Vanya Garcia, Chiang Mai, Thailand_