---
title:  Babylon and Armageddon
date:   21/06/2018
---

**Opinion**: 1 Cor. 15:1, 2; Matt. 10:22

What images come to your mind when you hear the word Babylon? Power, wealth, military might, idols? Have you thought about the mix between civic and religious power that defined the government of this ancient empire? Nebuchadnezzar actually renamed the Hebrew slaves who were taken to his palace, giving them pagan names that symbolized pagan gods. Now, what images come to mind when you hear the word Armageddon? Fear, terror, nuclear weapons, the end of time? For sure these are some of the common concepts associated with this apocalyptic word. It is not a surprise, then, that these two terms together, Babylon and Armageddon, provoke in the mind’s eye a mix of images that for many culminate in civic and religious upheaval.

The Bible is clear that it will not be an easy time for this world. But images of this kind of future should provide for us the urgency to make Jesus our personal friend and Savior. Through our relationship with Him, the future is nothing to fear.

Paul’s call in 1 Corinthians 15:1 and the words that Jesus used in Matthew 10:22 encourage us to remain standing and enduring. A similar theme is found in the counsel to the church of Smyrna: “Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life” (Rev. 2:10). A relationship with Christ, by its nature, bears the fruit of faithfulness.

The question at this point is this: how will we face the future? Who do we want to face the future with? If we stay focused on the “what” of future events, we will experience anxiety and fear. But if we stay focused on the “who,” we will have the strength to face tomorrow. That is why the gospel is so important, because the gospel is the good news of Christ. We will not experience fear because we know who is coming in the end; it is Jesus Christ and He is the gospel. The more we know Jesus, the better we will be at seeing the danger around us and staying on His path for our life.

**React**

`1. How can you identify in the gospel the relationship between the religious and civic powers in Babylonia?`

`2. Can you identify what the gospel tells you about the challenges at the end of the time, specifically the Armageddon battle?`

`3. What characteristics of your relationship with Jesus Christ strengthen you?`

_Ismael Castillo, Montemorelos University, Nuevo Leon, Mexico_