---
title:  Hold Fast to the Word
date:   22/06/2018
---

**Exploration**: Rev. 3:3

**Conclude**

The topics this week all hinge on the reality that this world will not last forever. This study should lead us all to consider our own mortality. As a response to studying Armageddon and end-time events, a single word stands out: preparedness. Whether or not we live to see Armageddon remains a mystery. But a universal truth for all of us is our own death. Living a prepared life, a life in relationship with our Creator, emerges from this study as our best defense and our great hope.

**Consider**

- Choosing your three favorite Bible passages and writing a short narrative about why each passage means so much to you. 1 Corinthians 15:1, 2 instructs us to hold fast to God’s Word. You can keep that passage and the narrative in your Bible for spiritual uplifting.
- Reading chapters 36–40 in The Great Controversy. How does Ellen White see the final events of earth playing out? In what ways does this differ from pop-culture views of Armageddon?
- Listening to a song that deals with the topic of Christ’s return, such as “Resurrection Morn.” As you listen to the song several times, reflect on the lessons of this week with the knowledge and faith that Christ’s return is the culminating event of the study.
- Researching how you can support or become an advocate for a social issue that you see as being critical in the series of final-day events.
- Finding online Nathan Greene’s painting titled The Blessed Hope and researching its details. It is a striking artistic rendition of the Second Coming. What stands out to you?
- Identifying one area in your life where you need rescue. Write out a confession to the Lord. Read your writing and spend some quality time in prayer with the letter in your hands, then destroy the letter. It is between you and the Lord.

**Connect**

1. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, chapters 36–40, “The Impending Conflict”; “The Scriptures a Safeguard”; “The Final Warning”; “The Time of Trouble”; and “God’s People Delivered.”
2. Seth J. Pierce, Prophecies of Daniel Made Simple; Prophecies of Revelation Made Simple (Pacific Press, 2014).

_Issac Corral Magañanez, Hermosillo, Sonora, Mexico_