---
title:  How to Succeed
date:  27/09/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Deuteronomy 18:15–22; Joshua 1; Hebrews 6:17, 18; Genesis 24:40; Isaiah 53:10.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Be strong and brave. Be sure to obey all the teachings my servant Moses gave you. If you follow them [the teachings] exactly, you will be successful [have success] in everything you do” (Joshua 1:7, ICB).

Benjamin Zander was the music director for a famous band of musicians in Boston. Zander also taught a music class. Zander noticed that his students got nervous whenever they played for their teachers. Zander didn’t want them to feel afraid. So, Zander made a special announcement on the first day of class. Everybody in the class would get an “A.” Zander didn’t expect his students to earn the A. Zander wanted his students to understand the A was a gift. This gift could teach them about success. The A showed the students what was possible for them to do as musicians.

The book of Joshua teaches us about doing new things. Moses was Israel’s leader for 40 years. But now Moses was part of Israel’s past. The journey in the desert was over. A new group of Israelites was ready to enter the Promised Land. The land was God’s gift to Israel. The Israelites couldn’t earn this gift. God gave the Israelites the land to teach them how to live. God gave them this gift to show them what was possible for them to do, with His help.

Let’s study the way God helped His people start a brand new life. God can do the same thing for us, too.