---
title:  A New Moses
date:  28/09/2025
---

`The book of Joshua starts with a promise about what will happen after Moses dies. Why is this promise so important? Read Deuteronomy 18:15–22 and Joshua 1:1–9 for the answer.`

Moses died. Then God chose a new leader, Joshua. When we compare Joshua with Moses, we see they are alike in many ways. God told both men they would lead their people into the Promised Land. The Lord told Joshua: “ ‘I promised Moses I would give you this land. So I will give you every place you go in the land’ ” (Joshua 1:3, ICB). Joshua will finish the work that Moses started. Joshua really was a new Moses.

`Read Exodus 33:11; Numbers 14:6, 30, 38; Numbers 27:18; Numbers 32:12; Deuteronomy 1:38; Deuteronomy 31:23; and Deuteronomy 34:9. What do these verses tell us about Joshua?`

Yes, Moses is dead. But his name is written ten times in the first chapter of the book of Joshua. Joshua’s name is written only four times. Moses is named “the Lord’s servant” (Joshua 1:1, ERV). But Joshua is named “Moses’ helper” in this same verse. Joshua must serve and obey the Lord his whole life before he is named “the Lord’s servant” (Joshua 24:29, ERV).

Joshua 1 shows us a change in leadership from Moses to Joshua. But we must remember that the most important leader is the Lord Himself. The book of Joshua starts with the Lord’s words. The Lord guides His people in the whole book. The Lord is the real leader of Israel.

`In every age of history, the Lord chose men and women to lead His people. At the same time, why must we remember who the real, invisible leader of the church is?`