---
title:  Cross! Take! Divide! Serve!
date:  29/09/2025
---

`Read Joshua 1. What can we learn from this first chapter about the form of the book of Joshua? How is the book of Joshua put together? What are its different parts?`

Joshua 1 introduces the whole book of Joshua. The book of Joshua has four parts. The four parts include: (1) crossing the Jordan River; (2) winning the land (Joshua 1:10, 11); (3) dividing the land (Joshua 1:12–15); and (4) serving and obeying the Lord. The first chapter of Joshua also includes four sermons. Each sermon helps us understand one of the four parts of the book.

The book of Joshua shows us God’s actions for His people. God always takes the lead or makes the first move. In each action, God gives a special task to Joshua. Each task is about winning the Promised Land. Also, the book of Joshua talks about each task after Joshua finishes it.

In the end, God keeps all His promises about giving the Promised Land to His people. From then on, the Israelites are responsible for keeping the land. They can do this only with faith and obedience.

The things God does for Israel are shown in four action words: “cross,” “take,” “divide,” and “serve.” The people must obey and serve the Lord. Again, the book of Joshua has four parts. The action words below help us understand the most important idea in each part:

1. Cross (Joshua 1:1–5:12)
2. Take (Joshua 5:13–12:24)
3. Divide (Joshua 13:1–21:45)
4. Serve (Joshua 22:1–24:33)

As we see, the four parts of the book of Joshua show us its important message. God works **for** His people. But He also works **with** His people. The people must believe and obey. They must work with God if they expect God to help them. God does so much for us. He does many things for us that we can’t do for ourselves. So, He asks us to serve Him. We must obey Him and do what He commands us to do. The picture of God’s end-time people in Revelation 14:12 teaches us the same idea. We must have faith in what God does for us. Faith leads to obedience.

`Think about some of the promises in the Bible that are most precious to you. What do you need to do to make these promises real in your life?`