---
title:  God’s Promise To His People
date:  30/09/2025
---

In Joshua 1:2, the Lord tells Joshua that He is giving the land to the Israelites. But verse 3 (NKJV) says that God already gave them the land. How can that be?!

The land was a gift from the Lord. The Lord was the real Owner. In Joshua 1:2, 3, the word for “give” has two dif­ferent meanings. The first meaning shows us that God is giving the land to His people. The Israelites already won some land before they came to the Jordan River. But most of the Promised Land didn’t belong to them.

In Joshua 1:3, the word “give” is used to mean that God **already gave** the land to Israel. The things God promises in the Bible are sure and true. So, we can trust that we have them now, even before we get them.

In Joshua 1:3, the words “you” and “your” mean both Joshua and the people. So, God gives His promise not just to Joshua. God makes His promise to everyone in Israel.

Also, the Hebrew word “kol” is used many times. “Kol” can be translated as “all” or “every,” as we see in chapter 1. This word helps us to understand that God, Joshua, and the people must be in perfect agreement. They must be joined together in their hearts and minds as one people. Then God can help them fight for the Promised Land.

`Read Joshua 1:4–6 and Hebrews 6:17, 18. At the beginning of Joshua 1, the Promised Land was only a promise. But in the opening verses, God says the land is more than that. The Promised Land is His gift to Israel. When people die, they often leave their money, property, or land to their children. As God’s children, Israel is getting the Promised Land from God. This gift makes Israel God’s special heirs. An heir is someone who gets the money, property, or land of someone who dies. God’s riches include more than money or land. His riches include His promises. How are we the “heirs” of God’s promises?`

We can trust God’s promises to happen because He says He will be with us. Israel needed God to be with them so that they could succeed. Without God, Israel would have been just another country, with nothing to show they were special (Exodus 33:12-16). Joshua needed God to be with Him to succeed, too. Nothing today has changed. We need God’s help to succeed. That’s why Jesus made us a special promise in Matthew 28:20.