---
title:  Be Strong!
date:  01/10/2025
---

`Why did the Lord need to tell Joshua two times to be strong and courageous? Read Joshua 1:7–9 for the answer.`

God gives Joshua a hard task to do. The Lord doesn’t want Joshua to be afraid to do this task. The walls of the cities in Canaan look as if they can’t be broken. The people in the land are trained to fight. The Israelites aren’t fighters. They don’t have any war machines to break down the city walls. History tells us that Egypt couldn’t take control of Canaan. At that time, Egypt was the most powerful country on earth.

God wants Joshua to be strong and courageous in war. But the Lord’s command to Joshua is about more than being brave in battle. The Israelites will need courage and strength to stay loyal to God’s law and its rules. These laws and rules were part of Israel’s special agreement or relationship with God.

`Today, we may not need to fight in war. At the same time, how may God’s words in Joshua 1:7–9 give us courage and spiritual strength in hard times? Also, read Ephesians 6:10–18 to help answer the question.`

Today, as Christians, we must help God finish His work on earth. We may have many hard times ahead, the same as Joshua did. As we do God’s work, we must fight against our own sins and against the devil. Jesus promises us that He will be with us in this fight: “ ‘You can be sure that I am always with you, to the very end’ ” of time (Matthew 28:20, NIrV). Because the Lord promised to be with Joshua, Joshua was not afraid. God’s promise to be with us should be enough to remove our fears, doubts, and worries today, too.

We must get to know the Lord very well. When we know Him, we will trust in Him and His promises to us. More than anything else, we need a personal relationship with Him.

`Joshua stayed loyal to God and Bible truth. How can we stay loyal to Bible truth that isn’t popular to follow or so easy to obey?`