---
title:  Growth And Success
date:  02/10/2025
---

`Read Joshua 1:7–9, along with Genesis 24:40; Isaiah 53:10; and Psalm 1:1–3. What do these verses teach us about growth and success?`

The Hebrew word “sakal” is written as “success” in the English language in Joshua 1:8, NIrV. “Sakal” is success that comes from plans that turn out well. “Sakal” also can mean things that happen in your favor.

The word “sakal” means “to be wise” in the Hebrew language (Joshua 1:8). “Sakal” also means “to enjoy success.” But “sakal” can mean “to act wisely,” too. “Sakal” is used a lot in the books of Job, Proverbs, and Psalms. In these books, the idea of success is closely connected to acting wisely. People who act wisely respect God and obey Bible truth.

So, what do these words tell us about the Bible’s idea of success? Success is about much more than being wealthy. (At the same time, success may include riches.) Bible success includes spiritual truth and wisdom. We see this Bible truth in everything God made and in His law.

So, we must trust in God’s promises. God promises to save us with His mercy when we believe in Him. We also must obey God. God’s saving mercy and our obedience are not against each other. They are part of God’s plan to save us.

`Read Romans 3:31. What does this verse say about the connection between law and faith?`

Law and faith always work together. So, we must not think that if we believe that Jesus saves us, we don’t need to obey His law. We must understand that the law is important. Then we will understand the part that obedience has in God’s saving plan. We also will understand that God’s “law” and “mercy” work together.

The writers of the Old Testament respected God’s law. The law filled them with joy (Psalm 1:2; Psalm 119:70, 77, 174). The law helps us see our sin (Romans 7:7). The law also helps us understand that we need Jesus very much (Galatians 3:24).

`God helps us to keep His law. But why will we always continue to need Jesus’ holy life to cover us, the same as clothes?`