---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  03/10/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Crossing the Jordan,” pages 481, 482, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “Entering the Promised Land,” page 175, in The Story of Redemption.

“All Jesus’ promises and warnings are meant for me. God loved the people on this earth very much. That’s why He gave us His only Son. When I believe in Him, I will not die. I will have everlasting life. The experiences in the Bible are my experiences. All the prayers and promises, rules and warnings are mine. . . . With faith, we accept Bible truth. Then Bible truth becomes part of us and our lives. When we accept the Bible into our hearts, its truth will change our thoughts and cause us to grow. Then we will become the same as Jesus in our hearts.”—Ellen G. white, The Desire of Ages, pages 390, 391, adapted.

“We are sinners. We can’t save ourselves with our own good behavior. We are saved because of our faith in Jesus. We must think about this idea more often than any other Bible truth.”—Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, page 19, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Joshua’s life and experiences may be very different from ours. At the same time, what Bible truths can we learn from his life?`

`Discuss the connection between God’s promises and our obedience to Him. How do they work together? What is the danger of saying that God’s mercy is more important than His law? On the other hand, what is the danger of saying that God’s law is more important than His mercy?`

`What is the Bible’s idea of success? Where do riches fit in?`

`Imagine in your mind how Joshua felt when he became the leader after Moses died. What promise did God give Joshua to help him do his work? Read Joshua 1:5 for the answer.`