---
title:  The Bible Only
date:   28/04/2024
---

`Read Psalm 119:103, 104; Psalm 119:147; and Psalm 119:162. What did David think about God’s Word, the Bible? How did David’s ideas about the Bible change the lives of the Protestant leaders? What did David’s ideas cause these leaders to do? Are David’s ideas about the Bible important to our lives today? If yes, how are they important?`

The Protestant leaders in the Middle Ages built their faith on the Bible. They taught from the Bible. The Protestants in the Middle Ages understood that the Bible was “God’s living [life-giving] message that continues forever” (1 Peter 1:23, ICB). The Protestants believed that the Bible was the same as a precious treasure. As they believed its promises, their faith and courage grew strong. “All the promises in the Bible make our faith and courage grow strong. God talks to us in His promises. He speaks to us in the Bible the same as if He spoke face-to-face with us. In these promises, Jesus communicates to us His mercy and power over sin. These promises are the same as leaves from the tree of life. ‘The leaves of the tree are for the healing of all people.’ Revelation 22:2 [ICB]. When we believe in Jesus’ promises, they change us for the better and make us strong. Jesus’ promises give us life. Nothing else can heal us the way Jesus’ promises can. Only Jesus’ promises can give us the courage and faith we need. His promises give life-giving energy to our minds, hearts, spirits, and bodies.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 122, adapted.

The Protestants in the Middle Ages filled their minds with verses from the Bible. These men, women, and children followed Bible truth in their lives. Many of these Christians died because of their faith in the Bible. These Protestants weren’t empty, careless Christians. They knew they needed Bible truth to help them stand against Satan.

John Wycliffe wanted to translate the Bible into the English language for everyone to understand. At that time, reading and translating the Bible was a crime. So, Wycliffe was arrested for translating the Bible. He was sentenced to die. At his court trial, Wycliffe said, “Do you think you are fighting with an old man ready to die? No! You fight against Bible truth. Bible truth is more powerful than you are. Bible truth will win in the end.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 90, adapted.