---
title:  Sharing Bible Truth
date:   29/04/2024
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 4:1–6 and 2 Corinthians 2:14. What do these verses tell us about Paul? How much faith and courage did he have as he shared Bible truth in hard times?`

Paul often met with troubles and false teachings while he worked. But Paul believed that Bible truth was more powerful than any of these problems. He said, “I can’t do anything to stop the truth. I can only work for the truth” (2 Corinthians 13:8, NIrV).

During the Middle Ages, the Protestants had many of the same problems sharing Bible truth that Paul had in his day. One of these Protestants was William Tyndale. William Tyndale’s life is an example of courage. More than anything, Tyndale wanted to give England a good translation of the Bible. Also, Tyndale wished to fix some of the mistakes in Wycliffe’s translation of the Bible, 200 years before. Soon Tyndale was arrested and put on trial in court. Many of Tyndale’s Bible translations were burned. Tyndale went to court in Belgium, in A.D. 1536, and was sentenced to die. The men who killed him strangled him while they tied him up. Then they burned Tyndale’s body. Tyndale’s dying words were said in a loud voice: “Lord, help the king of England to understand.” God soon answered Tyndale’s prayer.

Within four years after Tyndale died, four English translations of the Bible were printed. In 1611, the King James Version (KJV) of the Bible was printed. The KJV was made mostly from Tyndale’s work. The 54 Bible experts who made the KJV used Tyndale’s English translation. One of those Bible experts guessed that the Old Testament part of the 1611 King James Bible is 76% Tyndale’s translation, and the New Testament is 83% Tyndale’s translation. In 2011, the King James Bible celebrated its 400th-year anniversary, with one billion Bibles in print. The King James Bible has been translated into many different languages. This Bible version has changed the lives of millions of people around the globe. Tyndale gave up his life for Bible truth. His offering continues to change lives long after his death.

`Read Daniel 12:3 and Revelation 14:13. How do these verses help us remember Tyndale’s life in a powerful way? How do these verses encourage you to share Bible truth with other people?`