---
title:  The Holy Spirit Makes Us Wise
date:   30/04/2024
---

When Martin Luther was a student at the university, he went to the library to study. Something happened in the library that changed his life forever. Luther found a copy of the Bible. The Bible was written in the Latin language. Luther never saw a Bible before. He was so happy he found it! With joy in his heart, he read chapter after chapter and verse after verse. Luther was amazed. The Bible was so plain and easy to understand. At the same time, its teachings were so powerful. As Luther continued to read, the Holy Spirit guided him. The Holy Spirit helped Luther to understand Bible truth that the Roman Catholic Church had hidden from people for so long. Later, Luther wrote about his first experience with the Bible. He said, “Oh, if only God would give me a copy of this Book for myself!”

**Read the verses below. How should we explain the Bible’s meaning? What rules do the verses below give us?**

`John 14:25, 26`

`John 16:13–15`

`2 Peter 1:20, 21`

The same Holy Spirit that helped men to write the Bible also helps us to understand the Bible when we read it. Isn’t the Holy Spirit amazing?! The Holy Spirit is God. As God, He teaches us what the Bible says. Sad to say, many Christians today don’t believe that the Bible came from God. Satan has tricked them. They believe that the Bible is only a well-written book. But they don’t believe that God really led men to write it.

The Protestant leaders in the Middle Ages saw that the Holy Spirit, and not the pope, is the real Teacher of Bible truth. John Knox told Queen Mary of Scotland the same thing. Mary said to Knox, “You and the Roman Catholic Church don’t agree about what the Bible teaches. Shall I trust you or the pope?” Knox answered, “You must believe God. Don’t believe any teaching that doesn’t come from the Bible. The Bible’s teachings are easy to understand. If a verse in one part is hard to understand, then the Holy Spirit explains its meaning in another part. Trust Him to teach you.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 251, adapted.