---
title:  Only Jesus . . . Only Mercy
date:   01/05/2024
---

`Read Ephesians 2:8, 9; Romans 3:23, 24; Romans 6:23; and Romans 5:8–10. What do these verses teach us about God’s plan to save us from sin?`

God saves us with His mercy. God’s mercy is a gift. The Holy Spirit helps us accept this gift. We accept this gift when we believe in Jesus and His death for our sins. Jesus paid for our sins on the cross with His perfect life.

When people sin, they break God’s law. The penalty for breaking the law is death. The penalty must be paid with blood. Only Jesus’ blood can pay the price, because He did not sin. God exchanges our life record with Jesus’ life record. When God looks at us, He sees only Jesus and the price He paid for our sins. Yes, when we broke God’s law, we earned everlasting death. This death is final. We cannot wake up from this death. But Paul gives us good news. “When you sin, the pay you get is death. But God gives you the gift of eternal [everlasting] life. That’s because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done” (Romans 6:23, NIrV). Are we worthy of everlasting life? Have we done anything to earn it? No, everlasting life is a gift. Let’s say we can earn everlasting life with our good behavior. Then everlasting life would no longer be God’s gift to us. If the Good News about Jesus teaches us anything, it teaches us that we can’t earn God’s mercy.

During the Middle Ages, Martin Luther and other Protestant leaders discovered that only Jesus saves us. When Luther understood this Bible truth, he started to preach this message. Crowds came to hear Luther’s sermons. His words were the same as a drink of cold water in a desert. The church did not teach Bible truth. The church taught people to follow only the teachings of the church. So, Roman Catholic people were the same as spiritual slaves. The teachings of the church gave no spiritual life to anyone. But Luther’s sermons about Bible truth touched people’s hearts and gave them hope. Lives changed.

“Jesus paid the penalty for our sins, so that He can give us the riches that belong to Him. Jesus died for our sins. He did nothing wrong. He accepted our punishment so that He could help God to accept us again. We did nothing to earn this gift. Because Jesus died our death on the cross, He can offer us His life.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 25, adapted.