---
title:  Obedience
date:   02/05/2024
---

`Read Romans 3:27–31; Romans 6:15–18; and Romans 8:1, 2. What do these verses teach us about how we are saved?`

Martin Luther taught Christians to trust in Jesus to save them. In Luther’s day, many Christians believed that their good behavior would save them. But they failed all the time. When they looked at their lives, they felt hopeless. We have the same experience today, don’t we, when we look at our own lives? We don’t see much good. That’s why we also need to look to Jesus to save us.

God’s forgiveness and mercy change us. A story from John Wesley’s life helps us understand this Bible truth. Wesley went to a meeting at a Moravian church in London. Someone there read Martin Luther’s introduction to the Book of Romans. Luther’s ideas amazed John Wesley. For the first time in his life, Wesley started to understand the Good News about Jesus. Luther’s words deeply touched Wesley’s heart. Wesley wanted to give his life to the One who gave His life for him. Wesley said, “I knew then that I trusted only in Jesus to save me. I felt that Jesus removed my sins. He saved me from the punishment of sin and death.”—John Whitehead, The Life of the Reverend John Wesley, M.A. (London: Stephen Couchman, 1793), page 331, adapted.

`Read 1 Peter 2:2; 2 Peter 3:18; Colossians 1:10; and Ephesians 4:18–24. What important Bible truths do these verses teach us about the Christian life?`

During the Middle Ages, Protestant leaders carefully studied the Bible to learn more Bible truth. The leaders wanted to know Jesus better. Many Bible-believing Christians in the Middle Ages paid a high price for this wish. Their enemies hurt them or put them in prison. Some of these Christians died for their faith. Their lands were taken away from them. Their homes were burned, and their families were attacked. Many of these loyal Christians were forced to leave their homes. They didn’t complain. They were “looking for a city which will last [continue] for ever. It was the city God planned and made” (Hebrews 11:10, WE). These Christians blessed the ones who hurt them. When they were put in jail, they trusted in God’s promises for a better future. Yes, their bodies were in jail. But their hearts were free. Jesus and the Bible gave them hope.