---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   03/05/2024
---

“Satan and his army of evil angels fought against God’s servants. But the Lord didn’t leave His people. God was with them the same as He was with Elisha in Bible times. Elisha’s servant told his master to look at the angry army all around them. The army cut off any chance for Elisha and his servant to escape. Then Elisha prayed and said, ‘Lord, I ask you, open my servant’s eyes so that he can see.’ 2 Kings 6:17 [ERV]. All of a sudden, the mountain was filled with war wagons and horses made from fire. God sent His army from heaven to protect Elisha. In the same way, angels protected Protestant Christians during the Middle Ages.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 208, adapted.

“Powerful enemies joined together to destroy the Protestant faith. Thousands of Catholics were ready to go to war against the Protestants. At this time, Luther wrote, ‘Satan is very angry. Evil popes are making secret plans. The Catholics are ready to start a war against us. Tell the people to be brave. Tell them to go to God’s throne in faith and prayer. We must trust the Spirit of God to fight our enemies for us and to give us peace. We need prayer more than anything. Prayer is our most important work. Let the people know that they are in danger from the sword and Satan’s anger. Let them pray. D’Aubigné, book 10, chapter 14.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 209, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How are we saved? What part do mercy and the law have in God’s work to save us? Also, what part do faith and good behavior have in this work?`

`Some people think that their own good behavior will save them or earn them God’s favor. Why is it so easy to fall into this trap? Why is the teaching that we can save ourselves so wrong? How does this teaching hurt our Christian faith?`

`God saves us with His mercy when we accept Jesus. What danger will we be in if we don’t understand the correct teaching about how we are saved? Where will the wrong teaching lead us?`

`What do some people mean when they talk about “cheap mercy”? Is mercy cheap? Explain.`