---
title: 'God S Plan For A Better Life'
date: 06/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Exodus 3:7; Exodus 20:1–17; Exodus 23:9; Deuteronomy 14:22–29; Leviticus 25:8–23.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘Do not hurt someone who has hurt you. Do not keep on hating the sons of your people, but love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord’ ” (Leviticus 19:18, NLV). 

**GOD** always has people on this earth who love and obey Him. These people walk with God in a special way. The Bible shows us who some of these people are. Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are examples. God connected with these men in Bible times and blessed them. In their stories, we see how God deeply wants to rebuild His broken friendship with humans. But God wants to connect with more people than the ones we read about in the Bible. God wants to join with all humans. It is part of God’s big plan to rebuild His broken connections with all humans. What else is part of God’s big plan to save us? God wants His people to bless other people. God tells Abraham the same thing (read Genesis 12:2, 3). 

God chose Israel to bless everyone on earth. Jesus, the Savior, was born in Israel. God gave the people of Israel special laws, religious holidays, and practices. These ways of life helped Israel stay loyal to God. Then God blessed them, and they blessed other people. This same rule is true today. When God blesses us, we can bless other people too.

_God wants His people to bless other people._