---
title:  THE GOD WHO HEARS OUR CRIES
date:   07/07/2019
---

“The Lord said, ‘I have seen how my people are suffering in Egypt. I have heard them cry out because of their slave drivers [masters]. I am concerned [care; know] about their suffering’ ” (Exodus 3:7, NIrV).

400 years is a long time to wait! It is even worse when you are a slave. God promised to save His people from slavery in Egypt. Year after year passed. But nothing happened. The Egyptians forced God’s people to build. The Egyptians also used God’s people to make them rich. For a long time, God did nothing to free His people. 

Then something wonderful happened. God showed Himself in a burning bush to Moses. Moses worked as a shepherd at the time. Before then, Moses ran away from Egypt. Now God gave Moses a job to do. God told Moses to go back to Egypt. God wanted Moses to give His people a message. God heard their cries. He saw their troubles. He cared about them. Now God was going to show them how much He cared. God was going to do something to change their lives in a big way.

`Exodus 3:16, 17 is about God’s plan to save His people. What does God tell Moses to say to the leaders of Israel? Why do you think God gave His people this special message?`

God tells His people about the Promised Land. God will lead His people out of Egypt to live there. He also tells His people that they will not be poor when they leave Egypt. For hundreds of years, God’s people made the Egyptians rich. The Egyptians gave the Israelites nothing for their hard work. God tells Moses that the Egyptians will give gifts to the Israelites when they leave Egypt. God tells Moses, “ ‘And I will cause the Egyptian people to think well of the people of Israel. So when you leave, they will give gifts to your people’ ” (Exodus 3:21, ICB). 

God’s people were slaves for many long years. Now God will change that. He tells Moses about His special plan for His people. God wants His people to live in a different way than they lived in Egypt. God will help them start this new way of life. It will be an example for all the people around them to follow. Then other people will start to follow Israel’s way of life too. God will bless Israel as they live this new way of life. And Israel will bless the people around them.

_God showed Himself in a burning bush to Moses._