---
title:  THE TEN COMMANDMENTS
date:   08/07/2019
---

`Read the Ten Commandments in Exodus 20:1–17. Now read what Jesus says about the Ten Commandments in Matthew 22:37–40. How do Jesus’ words help you understand the Ten Commandments better?`

Let us look at Exodus 20:1–17. Do you see that before Moses gives God’s people the law, he gives them something else? What is it? He gives them a warning. He warns them not to forget that God freed them from Egypt. Then Moses gives Israel the Ten Rules for their new way of life. These laws show us that humans should love God and each other. It is easy to see why many leaders used the Ten Commandments to help them make the laws of their land. 

Most of the Ten Commandments are short, yes. But they have the power to change lives. That is one reason the Ten Commandments are known as the law of life. Each commandment includes more laws than we see written there. Here is an example. The 6th commandment says, “ ‘Do not kill other people’ ” (Exodus 20:13, NLV). This commandment includes “all actions and behaviors that are not fair and end people’s lives early. . . . The 6th commandment also includes not caring about the poor or suffering people. This bad behavior is selfish.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs [Old Testament fathers and leaders] and Prophets [special messengers], page 308, adapted. Now let us look at the commandment against stealing (read Exodus 20:15). This commandment also is against “slavery and fighting wars to steal land and people.” The 8th commandment also orders us “to give people fair pay for the work they do.” “We must not cheat people. We must give them the money we owe them.” The 8th commandment also warns us “not to make our lives better by cheating people who are poor, weak, or suffering.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 309, adapted.

It is easy to tell ourselves we are not bad people. You have not killed anyone or stolen anything, right? So, you may think you are doing OK. But Jesus made it clear that keeping the commandments means more than our not doing wrong things. Our thoughts can break God’s law. So can our not doing something we know we should do (read Matthew 5:21–30). Now make a picture in your head of a community that never broke God’s law! What does that look the same as? It looks the same as a group of people full of love for God. Their love for God will cause them to love each other. 

_Our thoughts can break God’s law._