---
title: 'Slaves Widows Orphans And Strangers'
date: 09/07/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 23:9. What is God’s message to Israel in this verse?`

God freed His people from slavery. The Israelites understood how it felt to live as slaves. The Egyptians used the Israelites and hurt them. The Egyptians made God’s people feel that their lives were not important. So, God worried about His people. He wanted them to remember where they came from. God wanted His people to remember how it felt to be told by the Egyptians that they were not important. God wanted His people to remember what He did to save them. So, God gave His people a special religious feast to celebrate. This feast gave God’s people a special time to talk about what God did for them. “ ‘ “With his great [strong] power, the Lord brought us out of Egypt. We were slaves in that place” ’ ” (Exodus 13:14, ICB). 

`Read Exodus 22:21–23. Why was it important for God’s people to remember what happened in Egypt? How did being slaves in Egypt help them understand the way they should care for the poor in their new land?`

Shortly after God gave Moses the Ten Commandments, He gave Moses more rules. These rules showed God’s people how they should follow the Ten Commandments in their lives. God gave Moses three chapters full of laws. These laws talk about slaves. God did not want His people to behave the same as the Egyptians. God wanted His people to be kind to their slaves. God also gave Moses laws about how to punish crimes. There also were laws about land, everyday life, and rules for judges and courts (read Exodus 21–23). 

There were laws about how God’s people should behave in their new land. Also, there were laws about strangers and people who were poor and weak. God’s people must not use or hurt poor and weak people. God made laws that allowed the poor to collect leftover crops from other people’s fields. The laws helped the poor to have hope. These laws were not part of the laws of most lands. Today, we must remember these important rules about being fair and kind to strangers, the poor, and needy in our lands. 

`How can you care more about people who suffer?`

_God made laws that allowed the poor to collect leftover crops from other people’s fields._