---
title:  GIFTS OF MONEY WE GIVE TO GOD 
date:   10/07/2019
---

Many Christians pay tithe. Tithe is 10% of all the money we get. Malachi 3:10 talks about why we should pay tithe. So, Christians give to the church 10% of all the money they get. The church uses this money to share the Good News about Jesus everywhere on earth. Most churches have strict rules about how they may use the tithe. The church uses tithe to support pastors and evangelists. Evangelists are people who go from place to place to share the Good News about Jesus.

`Read Deuteronomy 14:22–29. What do these verses say is the reason we pay tithe?`

We often think that we pay tithe when we give 10% of all the money we get. But an Israelite who lived in Old Testament times gave to God almost 1/4 of all the money he got for the year. That was a lot more than 1/10 or 10%! The extra money supported the religious leaders and God’s house. It also was used to help the poor.

Some Bible experts think that this extra money was another tithe. So, the Israelites paid two tithes. One tithe to support the holy leaders, or priests and God’s house of worship. And the people gave a second tithe of food gifts. This second tithe was used for a big feast at God’s house. God’s people invited the strangers, orphans, and widows in the land to this feast. God wanted His people to remember to bless other people who were too poor to afford food, clothes, and their own homes.

In the first and second year, Israelites brought 10% of their crops to God’s house. But every third year, the Israelites remembered the members of their own community in a special way. They celebrated the crops God gave them. And they made sure to take care of the poor and needy in their own town. “Every third [3rd] year is the Year of Tithes. In that year, you must give one-tenth [1/10] of your harvest [crops] to the Levites, to the foreigners living in your country, and to the widows and orphans. Then they will have plenty to eat in every city” (Deuteronomy 26:12, ERV). 

`What is the Lord saying to His people in Deuteronomy 26:1–11? How can it help change the way we feel about helping people in need?`

_The second tithe was used for a big feast at God’s house. God’s people invited the strangers, orphans, and widows to this feast._