---
title:  THE YEAR OF FREEDOM
date:   11/07/2019
---

At last, God’s people entered the Promised Land. God worked with His servant Joshua to help His people divide up the land among Israel’s different family groups. God knows what will happen. As time passes, some of His people will sell their land to earn extra money. Maybe they will get sick. Or maybe family troubles will cause them to sell their land. Then the land will no longer belong to the family who owns it.

So, God makes a wise plan. He says that land cannot be sold forever. Land can be sold only until the Year of Jubilee. That was a special time when the land was given back to its owners. God also makes another rule. This rule allows a family member or the person who sold the land to buy back the land at any time. Again, God asks His people to remember their love for Him. That love should change the way they act. God tells His people, “ ‘The land really belongs to me. So you can’t [cannot] sell it forever. You are only foreigners [strangers] and travelers living for a time on my land’ ” (Leviticus 25:23, ICB).

`Read Leviticus 25:8–23. Pay special attention to the words: “ ‘Don’t [do not] cheat one another [each other]’ ” (Leviticus 25:14, ERV) and “ ‘Do not do wrong to one another [each other]’ ” (Leviticus 25:17, NLV). How different do you think our lives will be if we obey the rules in these verses?`

“God made rules to help His people to remember they are all equal. No person is better than another person. God gave crops of fruits and vegetables to His people during the Sabbath Year and the Jubilee. These crops were gifts. God gave these gifts to His people to help them fix problems in the community. These problems happened when leaders wasted money or did not govern the land wisely.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs [Old Testament fathers and leaders] and Prophets [special messengers], page 534, adapted. 

How long did God’s people follow these rules? (Read 2 Chronicles 36:21.) Bible experts are not sure. Even so, these rules show us how life can be if we fully obey God’s laws. God’s laws show us God’s love for the poor. They also show us that God wants us to be fair to other people.

_God’s laws show us God’s love for the poor._