---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   12/07/2019
---

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

Ellen G. white, “The Law Given to Israel,” pages 303–314; “God’s Care for the Poor,” pages 530–536, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“What is so special about the laws that God gave to Moses? First, and most important, the laws help us understand that we owe God everything. Next, we see God’s love for the poor. God promised to bless His people. But He never says there will be no poor people in Israel. God announced that the poor shall always be in the land. So, there always will be poor people among us. We must show the poor God’s love. We must be kind to them and help them. In Bible times, people got sick. They lost their land. Bad things happened to them in life. The same things happen to God’s people today. But as long as Israel obeyed God’s laws, then no one needed to beg for food or money. Everyone had enough food to eat.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs [Old Testament fathers and leaders] and Prophets [special messengers], pages 530, 531, adapted. 

“God’s rules are a blessing. They bless both the rich and the poor. They help us to not be greedy and selfish. God’s laws also help us to not be proud. They encourage us to give and take care of other people. God’s laws help the rich and the poor to trust each other. His laws help both groups of people to believe the best about each other too. What else do God’s laws do? They help us to have peace in our communities. They help governments to be strong. We are all connected to each other on this earth. When we lift up other people and help them, God blesses us too.”—Pages 534, 535, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Think about the plan that God gave to Moses. This plan was about the new way of life for Israel. Which law in God’s plan do you like best? Why?`

`2. God gave Israel laws that talk about orphans, widows, strangers, and the poor. Why do you think God cared so much about these special groups of people?`

`3. How should we think and feel about God’s laws today? How do we know which laws we should continue to follow? What is the most important thing we can learn from God’s laws? How can they help us to live our lives today?`

_“We must show the poor God’s love.”_