---
title:  The Heavenly Sanctuary Discovered!
date:   07/10/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Hebrews 9:1–15**

**The Heavenly Sanctuary Discovered!**

The sanctuary in heaven has not always been fully understood. Early Millerite Adventists adopted the popular view that the sanctuary was earth. When Millerites applied this misinterpretation to Daniel 8:14 along with several other key verses, they wrongly concluded that the earth would be cleansed by fire at Christ’s Second Coming in either 1843 or 1844. Unfortunately, following the Great Disappointment, many believers adopted various erroneous explanations. Some thought they had gotten the date wrong and therefore set new dates, but that movement eventually fizzled out. Others adopted a more symbolic interpretation—that Jesus had already returned in a spiritual sense rather than physically or that the judgment had taken place in one day instead of it being an ongoing judgment that began in 1844 and will continue until shortly before Christ’s return like we believe today.

As the believers grappled with their bitter disappointment, a few could not shake the conviction that the problem lay in their interpretation of the sanctuary and not in their calculation of the date. On February 7th, 1846, 25-year-old O.R.L. Crosier published an article in The Day-Star Extra that described the connection between the end of the 2,300-day prophecy, the heavenly sanctuary, and Jesus’ end-time ministry. He explained how the sanctuary in Daniel 8:14 was not on earth but in heaven and described how Jesus moved from one compartment of the heavenly sanctuary to another, beginning a new phase of ministry with the work of judgment. He also showed how the Day of Atonement would be fulfilled by Jesus’ ministry in heaven. The article had a few doctrinal errors in it, but God was slowly leading His people to a fuller and broader understanding of His Word. This lesson explores some of the passages that pointed these students of prophecy toward Jesus ministering in a sanctuary in heaven rather than on earth.

#### inScribe

Write out Hebrews 9:1–15 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `