---
title:  Follow the Pattern
date:   08/10/2023
---

#### inGest

The belief prior to 1844 was that the sanctuary was on the earth. William Miller had identified seven possible sanctuaries in the Bible: Jesus, Judah, Heaven, the Jerusalem Temple as a whole, the Most Holy Place within the Jerusalem Temple, the earth, and the saints. He concluded that the only one that would ostensibly need cleansing is the earth. Despite his deep disappointment in 1844, Miller never lost hope in Jesus’ soon return. He passed away in 1849, still a fervent believer. In his last years, he lost his eyesight and was no longer at the forefront of the continued doctrinal advancements, but he had faithfully served his role in the Advent movement. Though William Miller never fully accepted the teachings of the heavenly sanctuary and the Sabbath, Ellen White wrote that God will raise him up at the Second Coming (Early Writings [1882], 258). This is a good reminder that God is patient and merciful with each of us and only holds us responsible for the truths we know.

As the movement developed, Hebrews 8 and 9 became fundamental to their understanding of both the sanctuary and Daniel 8:14. Hebrews 9 reveals that there are two sanctuaries: one on earth (vv. 1, 2) and one in heaven (v. 11), and Hebrews 8:2 shows that Jesus is a minister in the true tabernacle, which was constructed by the Lord, not man. Hebrews 8:4, 5 reveals that the priests’ ministry in the earthly sanctuary mirrors the ministry of our High Priest in the heavenly sanctuary.

The link between the heavenly and earthly sanctuaries is fascinating; the earthly sanctuary is a mirror of its heavenly counterpart and sheds light on what takes place there. The earthly sanctuary had two types of services: the daily and the yearly (Heb. 9:6, 7). Priests went into the Holy Place every day with the blood of various sacrifices, but the high priest only entered the Most Holy Place once a year on the Day of Atonement, which was a day of cleansing for the temple and atonement for the sins of the entire nation (v. 7). As our High Priest, Jesus entered the Most Holy Place of the heavenly sanctuary with His own blood to cover the sins of the world once and for all (v. 12). The references to the heavenly sanctuary in the New Testament point back to the services of the earthly sanctuary, giving us deeper insights into Jesus’ ministry as High Priest in heaven.

It would have been an exciting privilege to be one of the pioneers who figured out what really took place on October 22, 1844. As the believers were earnestly trying to understand their mistakes and grapple with their disappointment, God led them into a broader, deeper, and fuller understanding of the gospel and the Bible, as He will do for us if we turn to His Word with the same attitude of dependence and diligence.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`How do both Hebrews 8 and 9 demonstrate that Jesus is ministering in a heavenly sanctuary?`

`What do we learn about God from seeing His mercy toward people who learn biblical teachings slowly?`