---
title:  The Sanctuary Cleansed
date:   09/10/2023
---

### inTerpret

Seeing that Jesus is faithfully ministering in a sanctuary in heaven is a beautiful discovery that prompts certain questions: If the high priest on earth was responsible for cleansing the earthly sanctuary once a year and the sanctuary on earth was a copy of the sanctuary in heaven, did the sanctuary in heaven need to be cleansed, too? From what?

Twice every day, the priest entered the earthly sanctuary to make atonement for the people (Heb. 9:6), a process that required blood and death (v. 22). Every repentant sinner prayed over their sacrifice before it was killed, transferring their sins to the innocent animal and condemning it to death. The priest then took some of the blood into the Holy Place and sprinkled it before the veil, transferring the sin into the sanctuary (Lev. 4:17, 18). The sins began to pile up as they were transferred in every day for an entire year, making the sanctuary a place that was defiled by sin (Lev. 20:3). The Day of Atonement was the day when the sins were removed and the sanctuary cleansed (Lev. 16:19).

This yearly cleansing of the earthly sanctuary was a copy of a greater cleansing that would take place in the heavenly sanctuary (Heb. 9:23). It is strange to think of heaven as anything other than pure and undefiled, but because heaven is involved in dealing with the sin problem, heaven has had to behold sin—there’s a certain pollution that has affected heaven, too. In the earthly sanctuary, when the priest sprinkled blood on the horns of the altar, the blood was a visible (and smelly) testimony that sin had taken place and the penalty of sin, death, had been served. That blood polluted the sanctuary and was a reminder that the camp had been defiled with sin. The prophet Jeremiah interprets the blood on the horns of the altar to mean that the sin of Judah was recorded on those horns (Jer. 17:1). Just as sin was recorded with blood in the earthly sanctuary, so sin is recorded in the heavenly sanctuary. Just as the earthly sanctuary needed to be cleansed from these reminders of sin, so the sanctuary in heaven needs cleansing from its own record of sins. The Day of Atonement provides this cleansing, erasing the written record.

On the Day of Atonement, two goats were brought to the sanctuary and lots were cast (Lev. 16:7–10). One was offered as a sin offering, its blood sprinkled on the mercy seat in the Most Holy Place, and the other was the scape goat. All the sins of the previous year were laid on the scape goat and it was taken into the wilderness, never to return (vv. 20–22). God desired to impress upon Israel the seriousness of sin and the importance of spiritual cleansing. These actions, of course, symbolized how sin would ultimately be dealt with, but there were other spiritual meanings within the process as well.

God never intended that any of us should forget the importance of the service and become caught up in the works of religion (see Heb. 9:14). The cleansing of the earthly sanctuary was a type of how the one in heaven will be cleansed, but let’s not miss that God ultimately wants to cleanse our lives of sin. The new covenant highlighted in Hebrews 8 and 9 is about not only the physical location of the true sanctuary but also, more importantly, the promise that God will remember our sins no more (Heb. 8:12). The New Covenant is a promise that we have a High Priest who is interceding for us so we might be ready to receive the eternal inheritance God has prepared for us (Heb. 9:15).

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Without having a physical structure on earth, how can we keep the vividness of this service, the seriousness of sin, and the need for cleansing fresh in our minds?`