---
title:  The Gospel Seen and Experienced
date:   11/10/2023
---

### inVite

It’s often said a picture is worth a thousand words. Indeed, there are many iconic images that require no verbal explanation. Rather than merely writing about the concepts and nuances of salvation, Jesus created the sanctuary, a tangible model of how to be saved that His people could experience firsthand.

Complex terminology such as justification and sanctification and words with profound meanings like mercy, pardon, forgiveness, and love are beautifully illustrated in the various furniture and services of the sanctuary. We see Jesus’ sacrifice in the way an innocent lamb had to suffer death because the sins of the bearer were symbolically transferred to it. The sinner’s freedom at the expense of the innocent lamb’s life presented a vivid, tactile example of God’s grace and pointed the sinner to Jesus, the ultimate substitute and sacrifice.

Each piece of furniture in the Holy Place (Heb. 9:2) not only speaks about different aspects of Jesus’ ministry but also has applications to our own lives. For example, of the three pieces of furniture in the Holy Place (the lampstand, the table of showbread, and the altar of incense), the altar of incense was physically located the closest to the Most Holy Place, where the presence of God dwelt and His glory was seen. With the sweet smell of incense rising from the altar, floating over the curtain, and settling on the ark of the covenant and the mercy seat, the altar of incense beautifully represented the connection to God that we can have through prayer (Ps. 141:2; Rev. 8:3) This proximity between the altar of incense and the ark of the covenant represents how close we can get to God today through prayer, opening our hearts to Him as we would to a dear friend. The picture of the sanctuary assures us that God is on His throne of grace desiring to receive our petitions (Heb. 4:16).

The sanctuary exemplifies the perfect blend of God’s justice and mercy; it illustrates these two aspects of His character. In this model, we see that justice and mercy are not mutually exclusive but coexist in perfect harmony. We see the love of Christ in the courtyard with His sacrifice, and we see God’s judgment in the Most Holy Place not far away. We see His mercy when the temple is cleansed of all sin.

More than any other teaching we believe as a church, the sanctuary shows how many truths are connected as a system, each one magnifying an aspect of Christ’s character. It provides us with a framework, a grid to fit things into. It shows that there is sound logic and reason within the unfathomable love of God that overwhelms sinners such as us. When presented correctly, in the framework of the sanctuary, the gospel can truly reach anyone.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`In what ways should the picture of the sanctuary shape the way we live our daily lives?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`