---
title:  inQuire
date:   13/10/2023
---

### inQuire

Share insights from this week’s memory verse and Bible study as well as any discoveries, observations, and questions with your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group). Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

`The early pioneers studied and earnestly believed their interpretation of Scripture to be correct. However, they ended up being wrong and were bitterly disappointed, having to study everything all over again. What can we learn from their experience, and are there aspects of this process we should continue to do today?`

`Why did God not give a vision to someone to provide the correct view of this doctrine? Why allow the believers to struggle to figure it out?`

`In what ways does God still allow us to struggle and grapple with the Bible today? How is this process good for us?`

`The earthly sanctuary reveals Christ’s beauty, but in what ways could the sanctuary in heaven share an even better picture of Him? (See Heb. 9:11.)`

`What does the sanctuary tell us about how God uses various learning styles to teach us? How should we adapt what we know when sharing with others?`

`Why did the sanctuary on earth need to be cleansed?`

`In what ways might the sanctuary in heaven need to be cleansed?`

`The Day of Atonement in ancient Israel called for an entire day spent in fasting and prayer, but for us today, it’s taking place over an extended period of time—hundreds of years. How can we still treat this time with the seriousness and sanctity it was given in the past?`

`We are told that the Sanctuary is the very center of Christ’s work on behalf of man. How does better understanding the Sanctuary help us to be more Christ centered?`

To watch a short video on this topic please check the following links:

The Great Disappointment: https://lineagejourney.com/video_episodes/5-the-great-disappointment

<iframe style="display: block; margin: 20px auto; width: 100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OHokAblgCLg?si=eSfuQQI3GqSWIGDw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>