---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/06/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Privilege of Prayer,” pp. 93–104, in Steps to Christ.

“The natural eye can never behold the comeliness and beauty of Christ. The inward illumination of the Holy Spirit, revealing to the soul its true hopeless, helpless condition without the mercy and pardon of the Sin-bearer—the all-sufficiency of Christ—can alone enable man to discern His infinite mercy, His immeasurable love, benevolence, and glory.”—Ellen G. White, The Upward Look, p. 155.

“Portions of Scripture, even whole chapters, may be committed to memory, to be repeated when Satan comes in with his temptations. . . . When Satan would lead the mind to dwell upon earthly and sensual things, he is most effectually resisted with, ‘It is written.’ ”—Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, April 8, 1884.

**Discussion Questions:**

`How does the reality of free will and free choice play into all our decisions regarding faith and obedience? Though many areas of our life are out of our control, with regard to the crucial things, the things that pertain to eternal life, we do have free choice. What are you doing with the free will that God has given you? What kind of spiritual choices are you making?`

`Think about the role that the Sabbath can and should play in terms of giving us quiet time with God. How does keeping the Sabbath protect you from being so caught up in working and doing things that you don’t spend the time with God that you need to spend? How can you learn to make the Sabbath more of the spiritual blessing that it was meant to be?`

`What has been your experience in spending time with God alone in prayer and study? How does this spiritual practice impact your faith? How should it impact your faith? In class, if you feel comfortable, talk about your own personal times of reading and praying and what you have gained from them. How might others benefit from what you have learned?`

`What are some of your favorite texts that you have memorized? What is it about them that you like so much? How has memorizing them been a blessing to you?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Reflecting Christ, “God Has a Tender Care for His People,” p. 351;

Steps to Christ, “The Privilege of Prayer,” pp. 93–104.