---
title:  Teacher Comments
date:   26/06/2020
---

**Key Texts**: James 1:22; Luke 4:4, 8, 10–12; John 5:46, 47; 1 Cor. 2:12–14; Phil. 2:13; Ps. 37:7; Ps. 46:10; Ps. 62:1, 2, 5; Ps. 119:11.

#### Part I: Overview

This quarter we have studied various principles of biblical interpretation. But the best hermeneutical principles will avail nothing if they do not lead to a joyful practice of the biblical message. The exposition of Scripture is not just an intellectual exercise. The goal of any study of the Bible is more than acquiring head knowledge. If done properly, it will lead to heart obedience. It is an obedience that is deeper and more meaningful than just outward conformity. It will lead to a joyful faithfulness to the will of God. The truths of Scripture want to be lived, they do not just want to be believed. Such a response to the biblical message is possible only through the transforming work of the Holy Spirit who brings the words of Scripture to new life. He kindles the desire in us to embrace the truths of Scripture and follow them with heart and mind. The best example of this response to Scripture is found in Jesus Christ, who has shown to us how to deal with the Word of God and implement it in one’s life. Jesus never nullified Scripture but consistently pointed to Scripture as the authoritative norm for even His words. Jesus also gave us examples of spending quiet time in solitude with the Word of God. This discipline is something we have to regain intentionally in our hectic world. We also can bring Scripture to fruition when we memorize it. Often singing the words of Scripture will anchor them firmly in our minds and hearts and cheer us on. 

#### Part II: Commentary

**The Living Word of God and the Holy Spirit**

The Bible makes it clear that man in his sinfulness and fallen state is spiritually blind and does not accept the things of God, for they are foolishness to him. He cannot even understand them, because they need to be spiritually discerned (1 Cor. 2:14). Even if we were to understand the plain meaning of the words of Scripture clearly, we would have no desire to follow them without the transforming work of the Holy Spirit on our hearts. The Holy Spirit inspired the Bible writers to write down the truth God revealed to them (see 2 Pet. 1:19–21, 2 Tim. 3:16). But to have the inspired Word of God is not enough. The Word also must be embraced and be applied and implemented in our lives. Without the Holy Spirit, we will have no appreciation of the divine message and no desire to obey it. Without the Holy Spirit, we will evidence no faith, no hope, and no love in response to the Word of God. The Holy Spirit enables us to see the spiritual and existential significance of the scriptural Word for our lives (see 1 Cor. 2:12, 14, 15; Eph. 1:17–19; Ps. 119:8). 

The Holy Spirit continues to speak to people through the Bible today, making the Written Word of God come alive. Thus, the dead letter of the biblical book becomes the living Word of God that is sharper than a two-edged sword (Heb. 4:12), cutting through to our innermost being and transforming our lives in the light of Scripture. Several biblical passages point out that the task of the Holy Spirit is to put Jesus Christ into central focus, lifting up the Son of God and what He has done for us (see John 15:26; 1 John 4:2, 3).

Where have you experienced the help of the Holy Spirit in leading you joyfully to obey the words of Scripture in your life?

**Learning From Jesus**

By embracing the scriptural Word as trustworthy and true, we are led by the Spirit to accept the living Word of God, Jesus Christ, as our personal Savior and Lord and as our highest example to emulate. We can learn much from the way Jesus used the Scriptures. He was intimately familiar with all that Scripture had to say and was able to quote the exact words of Scripture when He was tempted by the devil (Matt. 4:4, 7, 10). His familiarity with Scripture guarded Him against being misled by a selective use of Bible passages. He knew all the Scriptures, and for Him Scripture could not be broken (John 10:35). The entire Scripture was sacred for Him. Hence, Jesus repeatedly referred back to Scripture and to what is written (see Luke 24:45, 46; Matt. 11:10; John 6:45; John 7:38). 

In what way does Jesus’ example inspire you to know the words of Scripture better for yourself? How can you become more familiar with the Bible? In what areas do you need to make the Bible the norm for your life and to follow it faithfully?

**Jesus Versus Scripture?**

One of the things we often hear today is a supposed dichotomy between the “gospel and doctrine.” It might sound strange to suggest a contradiction and even antagonism between Jesus and the Bible. But in church history there have been repeated attempts to pitch Christ against Scripture and to elevate Christ as the interpreting norm over what the Bible states. Ultimately some even use Christ to judge Scripture and make some Scripture null and void. Perhaps the most famous example is found in Martin Luther’s well-known principle by which he judged Scripture: “All the genuine sacred books agree in this, that all of them preach and inculcate [treiben] Christ. And that is the true test by which to judge all books, when we see whether or not they inculcate Christ.”—Martin Luther, Luther’s Works, Vol. 35: Word and Sacrament I, Preface to the New Testament, eds. E. Theodore Bachmann and Helmut T. Lehmann, vol. 35 (Philadelphia: Fortress Press, 1976), p. 396.

Thus, Scripture must be interpreted in favor of Christ, not against Him. In Luther’s view, Christ and Scripture can be set over against each other, because Luther ranked the personal Word (Christ) over the spoken word (gospel) and the Written Word (Scripture). This approach meant that while Scripture is queen, Christ is King, even over Scripture! If a passage of Scripture seems to be in conflict with Luther’s view of Christ, his Christ-centered interpretation becomes a gospel-centered criticism of Scripture, where the content of Scripture is criticized in the name of Christ. Thus, Luther’s Christological method became a tool of theological criticism of Scripture. This distinction and ranking leads to a canon within the canon, where Christ becomes the interpretative key and norm for interpreting the Bible but also relegates some parts of the Bible and even whole books, like the epistle of James, to the periphery as empty and worthless, because they are thought not to point to Christ. The following quotation from Luther illustrates this problematic aspect and is particularly insightful because it deals with the Sabbath:

“Briefly, Christ is the Lord, not the servant, the Lord of the Sabbath, of law, and of all things. The Scriptures must be understood in favor of Christ, not against him. For that reason they must either refer to him or must not be held to be true Scriptures. . . . Therefore, if the adversaries press the Scriptures against Christ, we urge Christ against the Scriptures. We have the Lord, they the servants; we have the Head, they the feet or members, over which the Head necessarily dominates and takes precedence. If one of them had to be parted with, Christ or the law, the law would have to be let go, not Christ. For if we have Christ, we can easily establish laws and we shall judge all things rightly. Indeed, we would make new decalogues, as Paul does in all the epistles, and Peter, but above all Christ in the gospel. And these decalogues are clearer than the decalogue of Moses, just as the countenance of Christ is brighter than the countenance of Moses (2 Cor. 3:7–11).—Martin Luther, Luther’s Works, Vol. 34: Career of the Reformer IV, eds. Hilton C. Oswald and Helmut T. Lehmann, vol. 34 (Philadelphia: Fortress Press, 1999), pp. 112, 113.	

Contrast this quote with John 7:38, in which Jesus refers back to Scripture rather than to Himself as the norm for authentic belief. 

**Quiet Times With the Word of God and Memorizing Scripture**

Jesus was busy with healing people and preaching the good news all day long. But He drew His spiritual strength from quality times of solitude in which He would pray (Mark 1:35) and recall the promises of Scripture. In our hectic and busy life, we have to plan deliberately for quiet times with God in which we are uninterrupted, have undisturbed time to reflect on God’s Word, and can pray. Such quiet times will give us strength and spiritual vitality that nothing else can provide. When you are reading Scripture for the pleasure of it, read less, but read more of what is important for your spiritual life. When your thoughts begin to wander and drift to unimportant subjects, focus your attention on what God has done for you and practice spiritual concentration on the Word of God. Sometimes the singing of a spiritual song or hymn helps to focus our thoughts and even makes it easier to remember and memorize words of Scripture.

Which times of the day are the most undisturbed for you? What helps you to focus on God’s Word and have some quality quiet time with Jesus? In what circumstances does singing help you remember the Bible? Where do you see advantages in memorizing parts of Scripture, and how can you use that to be a blessing for others?

#### Part III: Life Application

Sometimes people say, “Keeping the biblical law not to eat unclean food is not essential for salvation, as long as you believe in Christ.” Or people might say, “If you live together even though you are not married, it is not decisive for you as a Christian, as long as you love Jesus.” Where do you see a danger in such a line of argumentation? Why is it not safe to go against clear statements of Scripture, even when this is done in the name of Jesus? 

Ellen G. White has aptly stated: “The Spirit was not given—nor can it ever be bestowed—to supersede the Bible; for the Scriptures explicitly state that the word of God is the standard by which all teaching and experience must be tested.”—The Great Controversy, p. 9. 

In light of what we have studied this past quarter, why do you think this principle is so important? What do you want to learn from the way Jesus was familiar with Scripture and from the way He followed the Word of God? How can Scripture become an integral part of your life and influence the decisions you have to make?