---
title:  Jesus Changes Our Lives and Our Words
date:   12/08/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 4:17–32; Ephesians 4:20–24; Ephesians 4:25–29; Ephesians 4:30.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Stop being the person you used to be in your old life. That person was bad because he wanted to do wrong things. Have [get from God] a new mind and heart. Be a new person. That new person has been made like [the same as] God. He does what is right [correct] and holy because he knows the truth” (Ephesians 4:22–24, WE).

Jose Antonio, age 57, was homeless. He lived on the streets of Palma, Spain, for many years. Jose had long gray hair and a dirty beard. So, he looked very old. A woman who owned a hair cutting business saw Jose on the streets. The woman’s name was Salva. Salva offered to cut Jose’s hair and trim his beard for free.

Jose agreed to let Salva help him. Jose sat in a chair in Salva’s beauty shop. Salva’s team of workers dyed and cut Jose’s hair. Then they trimmed his beard. Next, Jose got new clothes. Jose sat in front of a mirror after everything was done. When he saw himself, tears filled his eyes. He asked, “Is this really me? I look so different. No one will know me!” Later, Jose added, “Salva and her crew didn’t just change my looks. They changed my life.”

In Ephesians 4:17–32, Paul says that Jesus changes every part of our lives. As Christians, we become brand new people. But Jesus does more than change how we look. He gives us “a new mind and heart” (Ephesians 4:23, WE). Jesus changes our behavior. He makes us holy.