---
title:  Sin Destroys Our Lives
date:   13/08/2023
---

`Compare Ephesians 4:17–32 with Colossians 3:1–17. How does Paul say that Christians should live so that there will be peace and agreement in the church?`

In Ephesians 4:1–16, Paul talks about the topic of peace and agreement in the church. When we compare Ephesians 4:1 with Ephesians 4:17, we see that these two verses are very much alike. Both verses talk about how to live as Christians.

In Ephesians 4:17–24, Paul tells Christians not to live the way the non-Jews who don’t believe in God live. Paul warns that living that way will destroy peace and agreement (Ephesians 4:17–19). On the other hand, the Christian way of life causes peace and agreement (Ephesians 4:20–24). Paul wants us to remember that God saves non-Jews because of Jesus. So, they can become part of God’s people, too (Ephesians 2:11–22; Ephesians 3:1–13).

Paul isn’t just worried about the sins or bad behavior of the non-Jews. Paul also is worried about what happens when non-Jews live in sin. They continue to sin more and more. What happens to their hearts when they continue to sin? Paul explains the danger. “I have something from the Lord to tell you. I warn you: Don’t continue living like [the same as] those who don’t believe. Their thoughts are worth nothing. They have no understanding, and they know nothing because they refuse to listen. So they cannot have the life that God gives” (Ephesians 4:17, 18, ERV). Do you see that Paul explains what happens to our minds and hearts when we sin? Our sin separates us from God. We can’t understand spiritual things or Bible truth. Then our hearts grow hard (Ephesians 4:18, 19). Paul tells us what happens to the people who refuse to obey God: “They have lost their feeling of shame. And they use their lives for doing evil. More and more they want to do all kinds [types] of evil things” (Ephesians 4:19, ICB). Sin has separated these non-Jews from God. They have no self-control. They are separated from God’s saving mercy. So, they continue to sin more and more.

`In your own experience, how has sin controlled your life? Sin is very powerful. When we sin, we want to sin more and more. Or we want to do worse sins. Why is it so hard to stop sinning?`