---
title:  New “Clothes”
date:   14/08/2023
---

`In Ephesians 4:20–24, Paul tells the story about how Jesus changed the Ephesians’ life. What is the most important idea that Paul wants his readers to understand from their personal experience with Jesus?`

For Paul, the life of faith is about our having a real and personal connection with Jesus. We don’t only learn about Him; we know Him. We believe that Jesus woke up from the dead and is alive. We believe He lives in our hearts. We accept His teachings. The example of His life changes us. We become loyal to Jesus as our living Lord. We obey Him. We allow the Holy Spirit and the Bible to lead us.

Paul tells us what we must do if we want Jesus to control our lives and to lead us:

1. We must reject our old way of life (Ephesians 4:22).
2. We must let God give us new hearts and minds (Ephesians 4:23).
3. We must live holy lives (Ephesians 4:24).

Paul uses a special word picture to help us understand how God changes us. This word picture is changing our clothes. In the Old Testament, clothes were a word picture for bad behavior (Psalm 73:6; Zechariah 3:3, 4; Malachi 2:16, ICB, NKJV). Clothes were also a word picture for God’s saving mercy (Isaiah 61:10; Ezekiel 16:8; Zechariah 3:4, 5).

In Bible times, men wore a long shirt known as a tunic. The tunic was knee-length. A man wore the tunic as an undershirt. Then he wore a coat or robe on top of the tunic to protect him from the sun. Women, also, wore tunics and robes. In Bible times, people didn’t have a lot of clothes. Clothes were expensive. People took good care of their clothes. They kept their clothes for a long time. So, when someone changed his clothes and put on new clothes, this change was important. Everyone around him noticed when he changed his clothes. Paul says that becoming a Christian is the same. Jesus changes your life so much that it is the same as a person putting on brand-new clothes for everyone to see.

`You can learn ABOUT Jesus or learn to KNOW Him. How are these two things different? Which one do you think is better to do? Why?`