---
title:  Jesus and Our Words
date:   15/08/2023
---

`What advice does Paul give us about the words we say? Read Ephesians 4:25–29 for the answer. Which one of Paul’s rules about our words is the most important to you right now?`

Paul’s advice to Christians teaches them what to say and how to say it. Christians must tell the truth. They must not lie about anything. They also must share Bible truth. Does this mean that it’s okay for Christians to be mean and nasty because they are honest? Of course not! We must have love in our hearts, when we share the truth with people. Paul tells us that our words should bring peace in the church (read Zechariah 8:16).

In Ephesians 4:31, Paul says we shouldn’t get mad when we talk to people or say angry words. So, Paul isn’t giving us permission, in Ephesians 4:26, to get angry at church members. Yes, Paul understands that we will feel angry about things sometimes. But we need to be careful about what we say. We must not let the anger we feel become angry words we say that hurt people.

In the middle of his advice about the words we say, Paul switches his topic to stealing. He says, “Whoever has been stealing must stop it and start working. They must use their hands for doing something good. Then they will have something to share with those who are poor” (Ephesians 4:28, ERV; also, read 1 Corinthians 4:12; 1 Thessalonians 4:11). Why does Paul include this advice about thieves? Maybe Paul wants us to understand the connection between stealing and lying words. We see this connection in the story about Ananias and Sapphira (Acts 5:1–11). Paul’s faith in Jesus is so strong that he believes God can change selfish hearts to caring hearts. God can turn thieves into givers!

Then Paul says, “Don’t let any evil talk come out of your mouths. Say only what will help to build others up and meet their needs. Then what you say will help those who listen” (Ephesians 4:29, NIrV). Paul wants us to do more than stop our evil talk. Paul wants us to replace evil words with goods words. Notice that Paul explains what our good words must do. Our words must do three things: (1) Our words must help people feel stronger and better. (2) We must say what people need to hear, and not what they want to hear. (3) Our words must improve people’s lives.