---
title:  The Holy Spirit in the Christian’s Life
date:   16/08/2023
---

`As we saw yesterday, Paul warns Christians to be careful about what they say and how they say it. In his message, what does Paul say about the Holy Spirit? Read Ephesians 4:30 for the answer.`

Paul offers us a warning and a promise at the same time. Our sins against each other in the church aren’t small in God’s eyes. God gave us the gift of speech. When we say mean and nasty things to other church members, we hurt the Holy Spirit (Ephesians 4:25–27, 29, 31, 32). Paul’s warning in these verses is much the same as Isaiah’s warning in Isaiah 63:10. Isaiah warns, “But they turned against the Lord. They made his Holy Spirit very sad. So the Lord became their enemy. And he fought against them” (Isaiah 63:10, ICB).

Paul tells Christians that the Holy Spirit marks them with a special mark. This mark shows that they belong to God (Ephesians 1:13, 14). The mark also is proof that the Holy Spirit will keep Christians safe until God makes them free at the Second Coming (Ephesians 4:30). So, we must respect the Holy Spirit. When we say mean and nasty things about each other, we hurt people with our words. We show that we don’t respect the Holy Spirit. We make the Holy Spirit sad.

Paul wants us to understand another Bible truth about the Holy Spirit. The Spirit is a Person. The Spirit has feelings. That is why the Spirit feels sad when we say mean things to each other. (Read more about how the Spirit behaves as a Person: Romans 8:16, 26, 27; 1 Corinthians 2:10, 13; 1 Corinthians 12:11; Galatians 5:17, 18.)

We must be careful when we talk about the Three-in-One God. The Three-in-One God is a mystery. The Spirit is One with the Father or in agreement with Him. At the same time, the Spirit is a separate Person from the Father and from the Son. “The Spirit has His own mind. He makes His own choices. We can make the Spirit sad when we do and say bad things. Only a person can be made sad or hurt. At the same time, the Spirit is not the same as we are. When we say that the Spirit is a Person, we are using human words to try to understand God. No human can be the same as the Holy Spirit. He is above us because He is God.”—Paul Petersen, God in 3 Persons—In the New Testament (Silver Spring, MD: Biblical Research Institute, 2015), page 20, adapted.