---
title:  Being Loving (Not Mad)
date:   17/08/2023
---

`Jesus is coming back soon. What should we stop doing so that we can be ready? What feelings and behaviors do we need to let go of? What words do we need to stop saying? At the same time, what feelings and behaviors should we have? Read Ephesians 4:31, 32 for the answers.`

In Ephesians 4:17–32, Paul tells us about six things we must not do (read Ephesians 4:31). Paul also commands us to be loving and forgiving (Ephesians 4:32). Then Paul tells us the reason why we must forgive. We must forgive each other because God forgives us. God forgives us because of everything Jesus did for us (Ephesians 4:32). Paul says, “Never be bitter, angry, or mad. Never shout angrily or say things to hurt others. Never do anything evil” (Ephesians 4:31, ERV).

Look at Paul’s list again in Ephesians 4:17–32. Do you see how our angry feelings cause us to say angry words? Paul wants us to stop using words as if they were weapons. Christians must remove from their hearts the bad feelings that cause angry words. Then the Christian community will grow. There will be peace and agreement in the church (compare Ephesians 4:1–16).

Remember, we don’t get rid of angry words and feelings by acting as if those feelings aren’t there. We must let God remove our angry feelings and angry words. Then we must let Jesus fill our hearts with loving feelings. We must ask Him to help us to say only loving words. We must not let anger control what we say or do. We must let God’s love and forgiveness change our hearts and feelings. God gives us His forgiveness because of Jesus (Ephesians 4:32). So, the forgiveness that God offers us is the reason that we must forgive each other (compare Colossians 3:13; Matthew 6:12, 14, 15).

`Think about your words and how they make people feel. What can you say to help people feel hope? How can your words help people to feel encouraged? How can your words help them to feel strong in their faith in God?`