---
title:  Additional thought
date:   18/08/2023
---

“Don’t say anything that you will need to say you are sorry for later. ‘And do not make the Holy Spirit sad. The Spirit is God’s proof that you belong to him. God gave you the Spirit to show that God will make you free when the time comes’ [Ephesians 4:30, ICB]. . . . When you have love in your heart, you will help your brother in Christ [Jesus] grow stronger in his faith. If someone says something mean or nasty about your friend or brother in Christ, don’t encourage these evil words. Be nice. Tell the person who is talking to you that the Bible forbids us to talk that way.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, June 5, 1888, adapted.

How would the members in your local church change if everyone said and kept the promises below?

1\. I want to encourage my church family to grow strong in faith (Ephesians 4:29).

2\. I will do and say things that I believe are good. I will not talk about the mistakes that people have made, even if I believe these people are wrong (John 13:34, 35; John 17:20–23; Ephesians 4:1–6; 1 Thessalonians 5:9–11).

3\. When I don’t agree with someone, I will show this person respect. I will believe that this person loves God. I will share my view in a loving way. I will not get angry or be mean (Ephesians 4:31, 32).

4\. I will have a joyful heart while I wait for Jesus to come back. I will look for ways that I can help church members to become the best that they can be (Ephesians 4:29, 30; Galatians 6:2; Hebrews 10:24, 25).

**Discussion Questions**:

`In the book of Ephesians, Paul talks 11 times about how God the Father, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit work together to save humans. Read all 11 messages: Ephesians 1:3–14; Ephesians 1:15–23; Ephesians 2:11–18; Ephesians 2:19–22; Ephesians 3:1–13; Ephesians 3:14–19; Ephesians 4:4–6; Ephesians 4:17–24; Ephesians 4:25–32; Ephesians 5:15–20; Ephesians 6:10–20 (in Ephesians 6:10, the words “the Lord” mean Jesus).`

`Today, many of us communicate with people on Facebook or on the computer. In Ephesians 4:25–32, we can read Paul’s advice about communication. How should we communicate online?`