---
title:  A Revelation of . . .
date:  05/01/2019
---

**Introduction**: Rev. 1:9–3:22

Arthur Conan Doyle, the creator of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson, wrote more than fifty short stories featuring the adventures of the famous detective and his sidekick. Sherlock Holmes made his first appearance in 1887 in the novel A Study in Scarlet. This first novel recounts the first meeting of Holmes and Watson, with Dr. Watson being absolutely astounded by Sherlock’s understanding of chemistry, geology, and botany, as well as his ability to formulate hypotheses using deductive reasoning. Soon the pair are investigating the first of what becomes an epic series of fictional murder mysteries that have enthralled readers ever since. In the course of investigating this first murder, Holmes tells Watson, “There’s the scarlet thread of murder running through the colourless skein of life, and our duty is to unravel it, and isolate it, and expose every inch of it.”1

Doyle’s tales of the great Sherlock Holmes have stood the test of time because of Doyle’s beautiful writing and masterful storytelling ability and because people connect with the detective’s ability to use his intellect to unravel difficult cases. I can’t help being reminded of the book of Revelation. Many faithful Bible-reading Christians have shunned a deep reading of Revelation because of its mysterious imagery and complex interworking. Many have viewed the book as “sealed,” full of secrets too great for the common reader’s intellect. However, what if rather than being intimidated by its complexities, we approach the book as a great cosmic mystery novel? Ellen White viewed the book as essential reading for everyone, saying that “the book of Revelation must be opened to the people. Many have been taught that it is a sealed book; but it is sealed only to those who reject light and truth.”2 The book of Revelation is just that, a revelation of Jesus Christ and the events that will characterize His soon coming. What a thrilling book to read, study, decode, and cherish!

This week, as you explore the first few chapters of Revelation, understand that it is a thrilling account of Jesus’ plan for our world and for the heavenly home that He is preparing for us. Gaining deeper insights and understanding of this book is much more exhilarating than any novel. It is gripping because it is real, relevant, and a vital read for the world today.

---

<sup>1. Arthur Conan Doyle, The Complete Sherlock Holmes, vol. 1 (New York: Doubleday, 1930), p. 36.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Evangelism, p. 195</sup>

_Emma L. Harper, Enumclaw, Washington, USA_