---
title:  The Holy Island of Patmos
date:  06/01/2019
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 1:9

Today, the Greek island of Patmos is a top tourist destination located in the Dodecanese group of Greek islands. Often called the Isle of the Apocalypse, Patmos is home to an archaeological site called the Cave of the Apocalypse. It is believed to have housed John while he was imprisoned on the island. In the eleventh century, a monastery was built on this site and has been a center for Greek Orthodox learning ever since. Each year, tens of thousands of Christian tourists pay homage to the history and significance of this place. In 1999, UNESCO designated the Cave of the Apocalypse a World Heritage site, lending it the formal significance that Christian believers have recognized for centuries.

It is not only Christians that travel to Patmos on pilgrimages to visit this biblically significant site. Patmos is also frequented by cruise ships filled with tourists seeking island adventures and looking to enjoy pristine beaches.Great restaurants, unique shops, swimming pools, and resort hotels characterize much of the tourist activity on modern-day Patmos. But this is a far cry from what was happening there some two thousand years ago.

In John’s day, Patmos was a remote island under Roman rule. This rocky and desolate island is small, just over sixty square miles in total area, and at the time was nearly devoid of society—a perfect island for the Romans to use as a prison. It was to Patmos, the Alcatraz of the ancient world, that the Roman Empire sent prisoners whom they wanted banished from society. In the year a.d. 95, the Roman emperor Domitian sent the apostle John to this island to silence his evangelistic efforts. The Greco-Roman world was incredibly receptive to the new message of Jesus Christ, so much so that the Roman elite felt threatened by the quickly spreading movement.

Since the time of John, this tiny island has been invaded and occupied by the Turks, ransacked several times by Norman pirates, was a holy destination targeted by the Crusades, and in more recent history, occupied by the Italians and then the Nazis during World War II. There is no question that this tiny island has had an impact on the world disproportionate to its size. It is a historical irony that the very place that was intended to silence the ministry of the apostle John served as a launching pad for the Lord’s final message to the world.

---

_Craig L. Mattson, Lake Tapps, Washington, USA_