---
title:  A Critical Ending
date:  08/01/2019
---

**Testimony**: Rev. 1:1–20

“In the days of the apostles the Christian believers were filled with earnestness and enthusiasm. So untiringly did they labor for their Master that in a comparatively short time, notwithstanding fierce opposition, the gospel of the kingdom was sounded to all the inhabited parts of the earth. The zeal manifested at this time by the followers of Jesus has been recorded by the pen of inspiration for the encouragement of believers in every age.”1

“But after a time the zeal of the believers began to wane, and their love for God and for one another grew less. Coldness crept into the church. Some forgot the wonderful manner in which they had received the truth.”2

“In exiling John, the enemies of truth had hoped to silence forever the voice of God’s faithful witness; but on Patmos the disciple received a message, the influence of which was to continue to strengthen the church till the end of time. Though not released from the responsibility of their wrong act, those who banished John became instruments in the hands of God to carry out Heaven’s purpose; and the very effort to extinguish the light placed the truth in bold relief.” 3

“This revelation was given for the guidance and comfort of the church throughout the Christian dispensation. . . . It is ‘the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto Him, to show unto His servants things which must shortly come to pass.’ ” 4

“In the Revelation are portrayed the deep things of God. The very name given to its inspired pages, ‘the Revelation,’ contradicts the statement that this is a sealed book. A revelation is something revealed. The Lord Himself revealed to His servant the mysteries contained in this book, and He designs that they shall be open to the study of all. Its truths are addressed to those living in the last days of this earth’s history, as well as to those living in the days of John.”5

**React**

`What similarities can you see between the Christian world in John’s day and ours? When facing challenging situations, what strength can you draw from John’s experience and the authorship of the book of Revelation?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 578.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 580.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., p. 581.</sup>

<sup>4. Ibid., p. 583.</sup>

<sup>5. Ibid., p. 584.</sup>

_M. Lizzette Harper, Lake Tapps, Washington, USA_