---
title:  Revelation Today
date:  09/01/2019
---

**How-to**: Rev. 1:9–18; 2:2–19

Deriving practical, day-to-day lessons from the complex narrative in the book of Revelation can sometimes be difficult. However, as a revelation of Jesus Christ, Revelation can present to its readers some very plain and practical biblical principles to live by.

Remember the Sabbath day. Revelation 1:10 reveals to us that the Lord spoke to John on the Sabbath, “the Lord’s day.” The significance of the Sabbath day is found throughout Scripture, and its relevance is highlighted again here in the experience of John. Seek to make the Sabbath a special day, a unique experience, and a day of true rest and rejuvenation in Christ. Set up Sabbath traditions. Select a playlist of Sabbath-only musical selections and create a home atmosphere that is distinctive to the Sabbath with special fragrances or meals.

Seek to form deep relationships. As God is describing the characteristics of His churches, He tells each church, “I know you.” God knows us independently and fully and has communicated this to us through the book of Revelation. As we model Christ and seek to be more Christlike in our daily lives, we need to seek deep and meaningful relationships with those around us.

Love your church. The book of Revelation may be confusing at times, but there is one truth that is without question: Jesus loves the church and is concerned about her well-being. As defined in the New Testament, the church is the body of Christ, the people who accept the message of Jesus and choose to live by His Word. You are part of the church that is discussed in Revelation and treasured by God. This should elicit a deep commitment to the church body as a public expression of your faith.

Listen. In Revelation 2, the Lord says to the church in Ephesus, “Whoever has ears, let them hear what the spirit says to the churches” (verse 7, NIV). By committing to daily devotions and a committed prayer life, we can begin to tune in to the voice of the Holy Spirit in our lives. There is an intentional and faithful commitment that is needed for the Christian to hear and respond to the Lord. God’s instruction in Revelation is both direct and practical for a daily application.

---

_Kevin Henderson, Auburn, Washington, USA_