---
title:  The Heart of a Christian
date:  10/01/2019
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 1:9

So many biblical characters found themselves passing through deep, existential wilderness experiences. Joseph was cast off by his brothers and ended up imprisoned; Moses was led into the wilderness for 40 years of spiritual training; David had a wilderness experience as he was being hunted by King Saul; and even the ministry of Jesus included a critical wilderness experience of forty days after which He was tempted by Satan.

John’s wilderness experience, imprisoned on the island of Patmos, provided a setting for God to reveal Himself to us all through John’s captivity. His experience was no small setback. After working tirelessly to advance the message of Jesus Christ in the Roman world, John found himself imprisoned and isolated from those he wished to carry the good news to. How demoralizing that must have been! Yet even through this, his heart and soul were dedicated to his Lord; and when God spoke, John’s heart was open and he was able to hear.

There is a very practical lesson in John’s experience that we can apply to our lives today—keep pushing forward in Jesus. This is more than a daily commitment to prayer and devotion. These things are critical in the life of a Christian, but there will be days when devotions are rushed and skipped, and days when prayer may seem like a hopeless ritual. Life can become very dark, and we have all been there at one point or another. I think John was there as the reality of his banishment set in and he realized that where he was going, there would be little opportunity to advance his ministry.

At some point, we all arrive on a metaphorical Patmos in life. Experiences such as financial ruin, relationship problems, falling to temptations, or life’s failures may tempt us to give up our faith. But, like John, the faithful can be assured that even through suffering, God has a grander plan that we are unaware of. And while our tribulation in this world may be severe, it is also temporary and small when compared with the eternity that has been promised us.

**React**

`1. What kind of hard experiences has life thrown at you? Looking back now, how have these experiences contributed to your overall maturity and spiritual development?`

`2. Is there someone in your life who is going through challenging times? How can you be of service to them?`

---

_Meggan N. Harper, Enumclaw, Washington, USA_