---
title:  John’s Revelation and Message to Us
date:  11/01/2019
---

**Exploration**: Revelation 1

**Conclude**

The book of Revelation was given to us by God through John while he was imprisoned on the island of Patmos. Revelation is a highly symbolic book that can be a struggle to read and understand, but remember that the symbols were inspired. The first three chapters of the book address the struggles of the churches in John’s day as well as providing a prophetic profile of the churches that would exist throughout Christian history. Revelation is not only highly symbolic; it draws heavily upon language and themes from the Old Testament. Ultimately, the book of Revelation reveals the character and work of Jesus Christ.

**Consider**

- Creating a list of names for Jesus that you can keep in your Bible as you read through this quarter’s lessons and study the book of Revelation.

- Making a list of the promises that each church in Revelation 2 and 3 is given. Take note of how many promises are offered by Jesus to each church.

- Getting acquainted with the person of John by reading chapter 56, “Patmos,” in the Ellen White book The Acts of the Apostles.

- Writing a letter of support for your local pastor, schoolteacher, principal, or conference official, encouraging this leader and uplifting their ministry. Combine this with a pledge to keep their ministry in prayer.

- Compiling a playlist of songs based on the book of Revelation. Take time to listen to several of them and identify the connections you hear to the book of Revelation.

- Taking some time to research artists’ depictions of John’s vision of Christ and then creating your own artistic representation of this scene.

**Connect**

Exodus 25:37; Psalm 118:22; Isaiah 58:13; Daniel 1, 2; John 10:11; Revelation 17:14.

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chap. 57, “The Revelation.”

Ranko Stefanovic, Revelation of Jesus Christ: Commentary on the Book of Revelation (Andrews University Press, 2002).

Seth J. Pierce, What We Believe: Prophecies of Revelation for Teens (Pacific Press®, 2013).

---

_Craig L. Mattson, Lake Tapps, Washington, USA_