---
title:  We’re Free
date:  09/08/2025
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 11–13**

**We’re Free**

Have you ever looked forward to something big, maybe even life-changing? What was that like? Did you have to wait a long time? The Israelites had been waiting for deliverance for so long that many had given up hope and thought it would never happen. Then, abruptly, everything changed in a few short weeks. Their destiny was rewritten. No longer slaves, they were suddenly free.

The Exodus is undoubtedly one of the most pivotal events in the entire history of God and His people. However, because of the catastrophic nature of the plagues, many students of Bible history find themselves troubled by the mess God became involved in. People died, and as the text reads, the hand of God was very much involved. In seeking to understand, we must remember that this story happened in the ancient world, which was a very different setting than the world today. Ancient people’s lives were governed by their fear and admiration of various gods. These gods were very much at the heart of war, conquest, and domination of other peoples. For the God of the Hebrews to show up and get directly involved was not unexpected. The Israelites’ struggle for freedom became a showdown over who served the most powerful God.

People today question the reason God caused such widespread destruction in the final plague on Egypt, but ancient people expected such events. From the beginning, God had told Moses, “And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord, when I stretch out My hand on Egypt and bring out the children of Israel from among them” (Exod. 7:5). This theme is crucial to understanding God’s manifestation of power against the Egyptians throughout the plagues, especially in the Passover plague. His plan was for the Egyptians to know who He is. This is such a pivotal point, but it’s often missed. To know God is to experience salvation, and the Exodus story exemplifies that.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 11 from the translation of your choice or just verses 4–6 if you’re pressed for time. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map chapters 11–13.

` `