---
title:  It’s Here!
date:  10/08/2025
---

#### inGest

Right from His first meeting with Moses, God promised that negotiations with Pharaoh would eventually move toward Pharaoh letting the Israelite slaves go free (Exod. 3:10). That conclusion was at hand. God began by telling Moses there would be only one more plague, after which Pharaoh would drive them out of Egypt. To prepare for this, the Israelites were to ask for material goods from their Egyptian neighbors. Then we read a very important statement: “Moreover the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh’s servants and in the sight of the people” (11:3). God’s prophet had become a highly respected voice among the Egyptians, from those in the lowest class up to those who worked in Pharaoh’s court.

This statement suggests that when Moses announced the instructions for escaping the last plague, there was no limitation on who could be saved. Pharaoh’s son had been under the threat of death even before the plagues began (4:23), but now a way of escape had been offered. The houses of the Israelites who prepared for the Passover could also become houses of salvation for the Egyptians. The preparations for the night of death were very specific. The timing of the Passover plague was announced ahead of time so no one would be unprepared. God instructed the Israelites to select a lamb on the tenth day of the month. The lamb was to be without blemish and just one year old (12:5). All households were to slaughter their animals at the same time: at twilight on the fourteenth day of the month. The blood from the dead lamb was to be applied to the doorframes of their dwellings. The meat was to be roasted and eaten in the night, and as they ate, the people were to be dressed for immediate departure (v. 11). God told Moses that this night would mark the beginning of the Israelite calendar (v. 2) and would begin a significant yearly tradition for the Israelites called the Feast of Unleavened Bread.

All preparations for both the Passover night and the ensuing week-long feast were explained in detail. However, while they understood the instructions (v. 28), they almost certainly did not yet fully comprehend the greater significance. God began leading His people to the Promised Land, but the importance of the event extended far beyond just those people on that one night. God was establishing a yearly celebration that was to both remind the Israelites of their deliverance from slavery and teach them about God’s ultimate plan for their eternal salvation and deliverance from sin.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 11–13. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What’s your favorite holiday? Why?`

`How can we make sure our homes today are places of salvation where God protects us?`