---
title:  Why Death?
date:  11/08/2025
---

#### inTerpret

On the appointed night, the Israelites, along with perhaps a few Egyptians, sheltered in their houses, quickly prepared their Passover meal, and dressed to leave. Excitement filled the air. Then, at midnight, the plague of death swept over all Egypt. The Egyptians who had earlier killed the Israelite baby boys (Exod. 1:22) faced the deaths of their own firstborns (12:29). Except for those homes covered by the blood, death came to the firstborn of every family. The Israelites could hardly believe it when their owners begged them to leave. They overloaded the departing Hebrews with gifts, urging them to get out as quickly as possible (vv. 33–36).

Many ask why God sent such severe plagues with such widespread destruction and death. If we pay attention throughout the narrative, we see that God answers this question, repeating Himself multiple times: “And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord, when I stretch out My hand on Egypt and bring out the children of Israel from among them” (7:5). While God wanted to deliver the Hebrews from slavery, He especially wanted everyone to know that He is God. His claim to be the one true God was at stake. That’s why He told Pharaoh, “By this you shall know that I am the Lord” (v. 17). There was a very real debate over who God is, and these plagues were designed to settle that question.

Another reason for the plagues was God’s desire for the Israelites to know His true power and tell of His miracles for many generations (10:1, 2). The Hebrew slaves needed to rediscover who the Lord is. God used the plagues to counter all the idolatry they had been exposed to in their years of bondage.

In the end, the slavery of the Hebrew people to the Egyptians was transformed into the worship of God. The Hebrew text plays off this concept, as the same word for service is used both in Exodus 1:14 to describe their terrible slavery and in Exodus 12:25 to describe the worship of God during the Passover service.

Ultimately, God wanted to teach the entire human race that rebellion against Him leads to death. This reality is difficult to accept and is sometimes just as difficult to explain. Our disobedience is why God had to send His own Son to die for us before humanity could fully see the degradation that rebellion leads to. Correspondingly, the cross also revealed the depths to which God’s love will go to rescue us.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do you explain how a loving God can kill?`