---
title:  Behold, the Lamb
date:  13/08/2025
---

#### inVite

The death of the firstborn affected both Hebrews and Egyptians who were not covered by the blood of the Passover sacrifice. It was devastating for those who had not believed God’s word and followed His instructions. Their deaths foreshadowed what God Himself would endure. God had provided Abraham with a sacrifice in place of his son Isaac (Gen. 22:13), and on the night of the tenth plague, God instructed the people to offer a sacrifice that would spare the lives of their children.

All this was done to bring into focus God’s extraordinary promise to one day sacrifice His firstborn Son to save all humanity and take them to the heavenly Promised Land. The Gospel of John tells us that Jesus was hung on the cross on Friday. This is the Preparation Day for the Sabbath, but it was also the Passover, the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread (John 18:28). So, when Jesus died as the “Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world” (1:29), He died as the Passover Lamb (1 Cor. 5:7). Mark records that Jesus died about the ninth hour (Mark 15:33–37), which puts His death right at the time the priests would be sacrificing their lambs as the people prepared to eat the Passover celebration. Jesus is our Passover Lamb.

John not only specifies the timing of Christ’s death but also brings in another Passover motif. As described in the Passover instructions, the Hebrews were to apply the blood from their sacrificed lambs to the doorposts and lintels of their homes. Moses had specified that they use a “bunch of hyssop” to apply the blood (Exod. 12:22). The hyssop plant appears again in John’s account of Christ’s crucifixion; it was used to give Jesus His last drink. When Jesus realized the end was at hand, He cried out that He was thirsty. John says the soldiers gave Jesus “sour wine” to drink, lifted to His lips on the stalk of a hyssop plant (John 19:29). While Jesus had refused the wine offered to Him hours earlier when He was first being placed on the cross (Matt. 27:34), He drank the sour wine from the stalk of the hyssop plant. Jesus endured what the people in Egypt experienced: the wrath of God against those who turn down His offer of salvation.

Jesus is our Passover Lamb. He drank the wine of God’s wrath so we don’t have to. He came to show what rebellion against God leads to. The Jews, the very people God had saved from Egyptian slavery, despised Him so much that they sent Him to a cruel death. Here, God used humanity’s lowest moment as an opportunity to show His matchless love.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 11–13 again and look for Jesus.`

`How would it affect the way you live if you knew that your purpose was to die?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`