---
title:  The Firstborn
date:  14/08/2025
---

#### inSight

“Furthermore, the first-born of both man and beast were to be the Lord’s, to be bought back only by a ransom, in acknowledgment that when the first-born in Egypt perished, that of Israel, though graciously preserved, had been justly exposed to the same doom but for the atoning sacrifice. ‘All the first-born are Mine,’ the Lord declared; ‘for on the day that I smote all the first-born in the land of Egypt, I hallowed unto Me all the first-born in Israel, both man and beast: Mine they shall be,’ Numbers 3:13. After the institution of the tabernacle service the Lord chose unto Himself the tribe of Levi for the work of the sanctuary, instead of the first-born of the people. ‘They are wholly given unto Me from among the children of Israel,’ He said. ‘Instead of the first-born of all the children of Israel, have I taken them unto Me.’ Numbers 8:16. All the people were, however, still required, in acknowledgment of God’s mercy, to pay a redemption price for the first-born son. Numbers 18:15, 16” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [1890], 274, 277).

“Before obtaining freedom, the bondmen must show their faith in the great deliverance about to be accomplished. The token of blood must be placed upon their houses, and they must separate themselves and their families from the Egyptians, and gather within their own dwellings. Had the Israelites disregarded in any particular the directions given them, had they neglected to separate their children from the Egyptians, had they slain the lamb, but failed to strike the doorpost with blood, or had any gone out of their houses, they would not have been secure. They might have honestly believed that they had done all that was necessary, but their sincerity would not have saved them. All who failed to heed the Lord’s directions would lose their first-born by the hand of the destroyer.…

“As Moses rehearsed to Israel the provisions of God for their deliverance, ‘the people bowed the head and worshiped.’ The glad hope of freedom, the awful knowledge of the impending judgment upon their oppressors, the cares and labors incident to their speedy departure—all were for the time swallowed up in gratitude to their gracious Deliverer. Many of the Egyptians had been led to acknowledge the God of the Hebrews as the only true God, and these now begged to be permitted to find shelter in the homes of Israel when the destroying angel should pass through the land. They were gladly welcomed, and they pledged themselves henceforth to serve the God of Jacob and to go forth from Egypt with His people” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [1890], 278, 279).

#### Journal

`After this week’s study, in what ways do you see new depth to God’s mercy and justice?`

`In what ways do you want to proclaim the beauty of God’s character?`

`Review the verse you memorized. How did it apply to your life this week?`