---
title:  Seeing the Invisible
date:  13/08/2022
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Rom. 8:28–39, John 14:1–14, Eph. 1:18–23, Isa. 40:27–31.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king; for he endured as seeing Him who is invisible” (Hebrews 11:27, NKJV).

The definition of faith in the book of Hebrews is always challenging. “Now faith is confidence in what we hope for and assurance about what we do not see” (Heb. 11:1, NIV). How can we be sure about what we do not see? Yet, this is exactly what Moses illustrates in our memory verse: “He persevered because he saw him who is invisi­ble” (Heb. 11:27, NIV).

It is even more challenging to realize that we are called to see “him who is invisible” not simply when times are good but especially when everything is going wrong. For this we need faith, a Christlike faith that must be shaped by the truth about God and God’s kingdom. The truth about our Father’s goodness, the power in the name of Jesus, the power of the Resurrection, and the compassion of God are essential truths that will enable us to stand strong when we are in the crucible and may be tempted to doubt everything.

**The Week at a Glance**: What truths about God can help sustain us through even the worst situations?

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, August 20._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It is faith that enables us to look beyond the present, with its burdens and cares, to the great hereafter, where all that now perplexes us shall be made plain. Faith sees Jesus standing as our Mediator at the right hand of God. Faith beholds the mansions that Christ has gone to prepare for those who love Him. Faith sees the robe and crown prepared for the overcomer, and hears the song of the redeemed. . . .<br/>
Faith is not feeling. “Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.” [Hebrews 11:1.] True faith is in no sense allied to presumption. Only he who has true faith is secure against presumption, for presumption is Satan’s counterfeit of faith.—Gospel Workers, pp. 259, 260.

Many have their present wants supplied; yet they will not trust the Lord for the future. They manifest unbelief and sink into despondency and gloom at anticipated want. Some are in continual trouble lest they shall come to want and their children suffer. When difficulties arise or when they are brought into strait places—when their faith and their love to God are tested—they shrink from the trial and murmur at the process by which God has chosen to purify them. Their love does not prove pure and perfect, to bear all things.<br/>
The faith of the people of the God of heaven should be strong, active, and enduring—the substance of things hoped for. Then the language of such will be, “Bless the Lord, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless His holy name,” for He hath dealt bountifully with me.—The Story of Redemption, pp. 128, 129.

Jesus does not call on us to follow Him, and then forsake us. If we surrender our lives to His service, we can never be placed in a position for which God has not made provision. Whatever may be our situation, we have a Guide to direct our way; whatever our perplexities, we have a sure Counselor; whatever our sorrow, bereavement, or loneliness, we have a sympathizing Friend. If in our ignorance we make missteps, Christ does not leave us. His voice, clear and distinct, is heard, saying, “I am the way, the truth, and the life.” [John 14:6.] “He shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and him that hath no helper.” [Psalm 72:12.]<br/>
“Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on Thee: because he trusteth in Thee.” [Isaiah 26:3.] The arm of Omnipotence is outstretched to lead us onward and still onward. Go forward, the Lord says; I will send you help. It is for My name’s glory that you ask; and you shall receive. Those who are watching for your failure shall yet see My word triumph gloriously. “All things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive.” [Matthew 21:22.]—Gospel Workers, p. 263.