---
title:  Still Faithful When God Cannot Be Seen
date:  18/08/2022
---

To think that no one cares about what is happening to us is very unpleasant. But to think that God does not know or care about us can be most distressing.

To the Judaeans exiled in Babylon, God did not seem to care much about their situation. They were still exiled, still feeling abandoned by God because of their sin. But Isaiah speaks words of comfort to them. Isaiah 40 is a beautiful passage in which Isaiah speaks so tenderly to the people about their God: “He tends his flock like a shepherd: he gathers the lambs in his arms and carries them close to his heart; he gently leads those that have young” (Isa. 40:11, NIV). But after so long, the exiles were thinking, _Where are You, O Lord? We can’t see any evidence that You are still there—or care!_

`Read Isaiah 40:27–31. In what ways does Isaiah describe God? How is this description of God meant to answer their belief that “ ‘my way is hidden from the Lord; my cause is disregarded by my God’ ” (Isa. 40:27, NIV)?`

Another group of people who might have considered that their way was hidden from God is found in the book of Esther. In this book, God is not mentioned even once. However, the whole story is an unfolding drama of God’s intervention to save His people from an irrevocable law to have them destroyed. Not only does this story describe events of the past, but it also symbolizes a time in the future when God’s people will again be persecuted and a law again will be introduced for their destruction (Rev. 13:15). Can you imagine how easy it would be to conclude that if such terrible circumstances existed, God must surely have deserted His people? But we are not to fear. The same God who saved His chosen ones in the story of Esther will save them again in the final crisis.

`We have read how Isaiah described God to the exiles. How would you describe God to people who felt that God had disappeared and had abandoned them? How would you teach them to see through the eyes of faith and not be dependent on what they see around them with their human eyes?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Faith takes God at His word, not asking to understand the meaning of the trying experiences that come. But there are many who have little faith. They are always fearing and borrowing trouble. Every day they are surrounded by the tokens of God’s love, every day they enjoy the bounties of His providence; but they overlook these blessings. And the difficulties they encounter, instead of driving them to God, separate them from Him, by arousing unrest and repining.<br/>
Do they well to be thus unbelieving? Jesus is their friend. All heaven is interested in their welfare, and their fear and repining grieve the Holy Spirit. Not because we see or feel that God hears us are we to believe. We are to trust His promises. When we come to Him in faith, we should believe that every petition enters into the heart of Christ. When we have asked for His blessing, we should believe that we receive it, and thank Him that we have it. Then we are to go about our duties, assured that the blessing will be sent when we need it most. When we have learned to do this, we shall know that our prayers are answered. God will do for us “exceeding abundantly,” “according to the riches of His glory,” and “the working of His mighty power.” [Ephesians 3:20, 16, 19.]—Gospel Workers, p. 261.

Workers for God will meet with turmoil, discomfort, and weari­ness. At times, uncertain and distracted, the heart is almost in despair. When this restless nervousness comes, the worker should stop and rest. Christ invites him, “Come . . . apart, . . . and rest a while” ( Mark 6:31). “He giveth power to the faint; and to them that have no might he increaseth strength. . . . They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; they shall walk, and not faint” (Isaiah 40:29-31). . . .<br/>
“Wait on the Lord: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart: wait, I say, on the Lord” (Psalm 27:14). “It is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the Lord” (Lamentations 3:26).—Lift Him Up, p. 263.