---
title:  Loving My Neighbor
date:   11/11/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Luke 10:25; Matthew 26:56; Luke 10:27, 28; Matthew 22:37–40; Luke 10:30–37.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “The man answered, ‘Love the Lord your God. Love him with all your heart, all your soul [spirit], all your strength, and all your mind.’ Also, “You must love your neighbor as you love yourself’ ” (Luke 10:27, ERV).

We all know the Bible verse: “Love the Lord your God. Love him with all your heart, all your soul [spirit], all your strength, and all your mind” (Luke 10:27, ERV). Our love for God will grow weak if we say we love Him but do not obey Him. We say we love God, but how do we show this love in our day-to-day lives? We can’t love God with only half our heart. We must give Him all our heart, spirit, body, and mind. We must give Him these things every day. Anyone can say, “I love God,” but really loving Him is a choice we make that takes all our strength and effort.

Loving God is important. At the same time, God also wants us to love other people. Our love for other people shows our love for God in a real and powerful way. The Bible says, “If we say we love God but hate any of our brothers or sisters in his family, we are liars. If we don’t love someone we have seen, how can we love God? We have never even seen him” (1 John 4:20, ERV). Paul also tells us, “You obey the whole Law when you do this one thing, ‘Love your neighbor as you love yourself’ ” (Galatians 5:14, NLV).

This week, we will learn how we can follow these important Bible rules in our lives.