---
title:  The Most Important Question
date:   12/11/2023
---

Who are we? Why are we here? What happens when we die? These questions are the most important questions we humans can ask. In the book of Luke, someone comes to Jesus with the most important question of all.

`What question did the lawyer ask Jesus? Why did he ask it? Read Luke 10:25 for the answers.`

The Bible tells us that the lawyer asked his question because he really wanted to give Jesus a test. Many people today are the same as this lawyer. They come to Jesus with doubt. But Jesus can touch their hearts anyway. That’s what Jesus did with the lawyer. Jesus knew that the lawyer’s question gave Him the perfect chance to encourage this man and the people in the crowd to search their own hearts. Jesus knew why the lawyer asked the question. At the same time, Jesus wasn’t going to refuse to answer the man or not be polite to him.

In the end, what question is more important for us than the lawyer’s question? “ ‘Teacher, what must I do to get eternal [everlasting] life?’ ” (Luke 10:25, ERV). This question is the reason for everything we do. No question has more meaning for us as humans, whose lives are “like [the same as] a fog. You can see it [the fog] for a short time, but then it goes away” (James 4:14, ERV).

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:30–32. What is Paul saying in these verses? How does this idea help us understand that everlasting life is very important?`

The lawyer may have asked Jesus this question to give Him a test. Jesus wanted to save the lawyer. So, Jesus asked the lawyer a question, too. Do you see how Jesus used these questions to touch the hearts of the people in the crowd who watched and listened to Him?

`How can we use every chance that comes our way to share the Good News about Jesus?`