---
title:  Jesus’ Answer
date:   13/11/2023
---

The Bible tells us that the lawyer wanted to give Jesus a test. Jesus knew the real reason that the lawyer asked Him the question. God knows the feelings that are in our hearts more than we do.

Sometimes people from other religions ask us about our faith. Our Muslim friends may say, “Where in the Bible did Jesus say He is God?” Or “Why do you say there is one God and that God is three separate persons?” Often, we may feel that our friends attack our faith when they ask us these questions. We must remember that their questions may hide a deep wish for Jesus to fill their hearts. We don’t know their hearts. We don’t need to. We must do our best to help them, whatever their reasons for asking us hard questions.

`Read Matthew 26:56; Acts 17:11; 1 Corinthians 15:3; and 2 Timothy 3:16. How do these verses help us understand Jesus’ answer to the lawyer in Luke 10:26?`

Sometimes we want Bible answers, but we are too lazy to study the Bible ourselves. Jesus asked the lawyer, “ ‘What is written in the law? What do you understand from it?’ ” (Luke 10:26, ERV). Jesus helps us to understand a very important part of learning. We must do more than pay attention to what other people tell us. We need to read the Bible for ourselves. The answers are already there. The Holy Spirit works on our hearts and helps us know our duty.

God gave us His Word, the Bible. From it, we can learn all the Bible truth we need to know about how to live and how we should love other people. The Bible also teaches us about everlasting life. Yes, teachers and preachers are necessary. But in the end, we must go to the Bible for ourselves to learn about the important truths for our lives. “Your word is like [the same as] a lamp that shows me the way. It is like a light that guides me” (Psalm 119:105, NIrV). This verse is more than a beautiful word picture from a poem. This verse is holy Bible truth that shows us that the Word of God is important to our lives.

`Jesus was the Word of God in a human body. Jesus always told people to read the Bible. What does His advice tell us about why the Bible is so important? Why must we reject any idea that causes us not to trust the Bible?`