---
title:  To Get Everlasting Life
date:   14/11/2023
---

`What was the lawyer’s answer to his own question? Read Luke 10:27, 28?`

The lawyer asked the question and then answered it: “ ‘Love the Lord your God. Love him with all your heart, all your soul [spirit], all your strength, and all your mind.’ Also, ‘You must love your neighbor as you love yourself’ ” (Luke 10:27, ERV).

What did Jesus think about this answer? “Jesus said, ‘Your answer is right [correct]’ ” (Luke 10:28, ERV). Then Jesus told him to do something about it: “ ‘Do this and you will have eternal [everlasting] life’ ” (Luke 10:28, ERV).

For most of us Christians, giving the correct answer about Bible teachings and faith is easy. The hard part is doing what we know is correct and following what we believe. A lot of people know enough to be saved. They will be lost anyway because they didn’t obey what they knew. So, this topic is very important. You know you must love God and your neighbor. That’s wonderful! But knowing is not enough. You must show them how much you love them!

`Read James 2:17–22. What Bible truth does James teach us in these verses? How is this idea the same thing that Jesus said to the lawyer?`

If we love God, we will read the Bible, His Word. We will pray. We will obey His commandments. We will obey Him with all our heart. What if I say I love people, but I don’t care about my church members? Or what if I pay no attention to other people’s needs? What good is my faith? The Christian faith is more than a set of beliefs. The Christian faith is a new way of life.

“What if a Christian does not have clothes or food? And one of you says to him, ‘Goodbye, keep yourself warm and eat well.’ But if you do not give him what he needs, how does that help him?” (James 2:15, 16, ERV).

`How much do you care about the needs of other people? How much do you follow the words of Paul: “Each one of you should not think only about himself, but about other people also” (Philippians 2:4, WE). How can we, with God’s help, show other people that we care about them?`