---
title:  Loving People As We Love Ourselves
date:   15/11/2023
---

`Compare what Jesus says in Matthew 22:37–40 with His answer to the lawyer in Luke 10:27, 28.`

In Matthew 22:37–40, Jesus says that we show our faith when we love God and other people. In Luke 10:27, 28, Jesus says that when people do these two things, they will have everlasting life.

“Love is the most important rule of God’s government in heaven and on earth. Love must be in our hearts and in everything we think, feel, and do. Only love can keep us loyal to God. Only love can give us the strength we need to say no to sin.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 49, adapted.

`Read Galatians 5:14; Micah 6:6–8; and 1 John 4:20, 21. How do these verses teach what Jesus told us?`

Paul says, “You obey the whole Law when you do this one thing, ‘Love your neighbor as you love yourself’ ” (Galatians 5:14, NLV). Paul teaches that folks can see we love God very much when we show our love for the people around us. A life of faith is not something we hide or that no one can see. Paul, Micah, and John explain that the things we do and our behavior show the faith in our hearts.

In 1 Corinthians 13, Paul explains real love. People may say they have much knowledge. They may do wonderful miracles. They may have a lot of faith or give up their lives for their beliefs. But if these people don’t have love, then, in the end, they “get nothing at all” (1 Corinthians 13:3, NIrV).

`Look at the Ellen G. White quote above. Do you see how she says that we can say no to sin only if we have God’s love in our hearts? How does this idea teach us that God’s command to love doesn’t mean we are saved because of our good behavior? How does this idea also teach us that love shows us the faith we have in Jesus?`