---
title:  The Good Samaritan Story Today
date:   16/11/2023
---

After the lawyer gave the correct answer, Jesus said, “ ‘Do this and you will have eternal [everlasting] life’ ” (Luke 10:28, ERV). With these words, Jesus showed us what was in the man’s heart. The lawyer knew how to give all the correct answers. Living them was the problem. If doing the right thing was a problem for this man 2,000 years ago, how hard is it for us today? The lawyer wanted to trap Jesus and show off in front of everyone. The lawyer wanted people to see that he was very smart. So, he asked Jesus another question: “ ‘Who is my neighbor?’ ” (Luke 10:29, NLV).

`Read the story in Luke 10:30–37. What lesson does Jesus teach us in these verses?`

Are there people around us that have been hurt by other people? Have we done everything we can to help them?

Sometimes pastors, church leaders, and church members don’t help the people who need help the most. Sometimes people from another church or religion are more loving to people in our community than we are. We talk about being loving, but other people may meet the needs of the ones in ways we haven’t. If our faith means anything, we must try to help the ones in need.

Jesus ended the story about the good Samaritan with a question. Who among the three men was the real neighbor to the person who needed help?

“Jesus answers the question, ‘Who is my neighbor?’ Jesus shows us that our neighbor is not only someone in our church or a member of our religion. Our neighbor does not belong only to one race or has only one skin color. Our neighbor doesn’t belong only to one class of people. Our neighbor is every person who needs our help. Our neighbor is every person that Satan has hurt and injured. Our neighbor is everyone who is God’s property.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 503, adapted.

`Task #1: Pray every day for someone who is different from you. Or pray for someone who you may not really like.`

`Task #2: Make a list of three people you know who aren’t Seventh-day Adventists. What are their needs? How can you help meet their needs? What can you do for them in the coming week? Ask God to help you meet their needs.`