---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   17/11/2023
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Good Samaritan,” pages 497–505, in The Desire of Ages.

“ ‘Here are the beliefs and way of life that God our Father accepts as pure [holy] and without fault [sin]. When widows are in trouble, take care of them. Do the same for children who have no parents. And don’t let the world [people who don’t follow God] make you impure [not clean in your heart].’ [James 1:27, NIrV]. Jesus wants us to be loving and to help people. Jesus wants us to say loving words to cheer people’s hearts. He wants us to do unselfish acts. He wants us to love the poor and needy. He wants us to help people who are suffering. Our hearts must be filled with pity for people who feel sad and hopeless. Give to the needy. Offer clothes to people who have none. Invite strangers into your house and make them feel welcome. Give them a place in your home and in your heart. When you do these things, angels will come very near, and the angels in heaven will be filled with joy. Every time we are fair to someone or show a person mercy or love, the angels in heaven sing songs. God the Father sits on His throne in heaven. He sees the ones who do these acts of mercy. These people are God’s most precious treasures. ‘The Lord said, “They belong to me. I will be kind [show mercy] to them. Parents are very kind to their children who obey them. In the same way I will be kind to my followers.” ’ [Malachi 3:17, ERV]. In God’s eyes, every act of mercy and love we show to the needy and the suffering, we do to Jesus. Remember this Bible truth when you help the poor. When you show pity to the suffering and help orphans, your relationship with Jesus grows deep and strong.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 2, page 25, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What are some of the hard feelings we have in our hearts about people who are different from us? How can we learn to let these feelings go?`

`What Bible verses can you find to show that we need to show mercy to other people, whoever they are?`

`How can we make sure we understand that obeying the command to love God and other people isn’t the same as saving ourselves with our good behavior?`