---
title:  'Jesus’ Healing Ministry: Part 1'
date:  18/08/2020
---

Our Lord’s method of evangelism goes beyond memorized speeches and canned presentations; it is as rich and dynamic as life itself. Every day we rub shoulders with people who have all kinds of needs: physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual. Christ is eager to meet those needs through us as we show concern for people’s loneliness, sorrow, and heartache, and as we show an interest in their joys, hopes, and dreams.

Jesus ministered to people’s felt needs so that He could ultimately meet their deepest needs. A felt need is an area of life where people already sense that they cannot solve an issue by themselves. It may be a need to quit smoking, reduce weight, get on a better diet, or reduce stress. It may be a need for food, housing, or medical care. It may be the need for counseling for the marriage or family.

An ultimate need, however, is what human beings need most—the need for a personal relationship with God and the realization that their life has eternal significance. Reconciliation with God in a broken world is our ultimate need.

`Read the stories of the paralytic in Matthew 9:1–7 and the woman with the issue of blood in Mark 5:25–34. What indications do we have in both of these stories that Jesus linked physical healing with meeting the ultimate need for reconciliation with God?`

The healing ministry of Christ included much more than physical and emotional healing. Jesus longed for people to experience the wholeness that sin’s brokenness had shattered. For Christ, physical healing without spiritual healing was incomplete. If God’s love motivates us to desire an individual’s physical and emotional well-being, it will also motivate us much more to desire that person’s spiritual well-being so that he or she can live life to the fullest here and through all eternity. After all, every person whom Jesus healed eventually died. Hence, their real need, above everything else, was spiritual, was it not?

`What kinds of initiatives can our church take in our community to meet people’s needs and demonstrate that we really care for them? Think about the people in your community. What is your church doing to make a difference in people’s lives?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"The words falling from the lips of Jesus, “Thy sins be forgiven thee” (Matthew 9:2), are worth everything to us. He saith, I have borne your sins in My own body on Calvary’s cross. He sees your sorrows. His hand is laid upon the head of every contrite soul, and Jesus becomes our Advocate before the Father, and our Saviour. The lowly, contrite heart will make very much of forgiveness and pardon.... {TMK 235.4}

We may repeat His tender compassion for us to others who are wandering in the mazes of sin. The grace of Christ revealed to us must be tenderly revealed to others. A great tenderness and compassion will fill the soul for human beings who are still under the control of Satan. Christ is to be multiplied in every man and woman who believes in Him, for they are to live over the life of Christ in blessing and enlightening and bringing hope and peace and joy to other hearts.24 {TMK 235.5}"

You have confessed your sins, and in heart put them away. You have resolved to give yourself to God. Now go to Him, and ask that He will wash away your sins and give you a new heart. Then believe that He does this because He has promised. This is the lesson which Jesus taught while He was on earth, that the gift which God promises us, we must believe we do receive, and it is ours. Jesus healed the people of their diseases when they had faith in His power; He helped them in the things which they could see, thus inspiring them with confidence in Him concerning things which they could not see—leading them to believe in His power to forgive sins. This He plainly stated in the healing of the man sick with palsy: “That ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (then saith He to the sick of the palsy,) Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thine house.” Matthew 9:6 {SC 49.3}