---
title: 'A Crossroad'
date: 11/03/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Acts
5:1–11**

**Guardians
of the Seal**

In the early 1990s a young minister arrived at a small hotel Friday night after preaching in a large church. Traveling far from home and attending to multiple appointments for one week, he was exhausted! As the Internet was not available, he started to watch something on television to relax. Maybe he could find some nature-related documentary. The problem was that he and his wife decided not to watch regular video content and to focus only on spiritual issues during Sabbath hours.

But it was as if something inside his brain kept arguing, “Yes, but you are so tired! You don’t need to watch something harmful. Just find something relaxing. After all, you are alone, and your wife and children will never know about it!”

He suddenly realized that this was a crossroad in his life. First, while passing through the channels, he would risk paying attention to an inappropriate thing. Second, the decision to act in dissonance to his beliefs and the agreement with his wife would start a precedent. Lack of integrity would eventually spread to other areas of his life. What would be the next thing that he would do while trying to hide it from his wife and children?

Third and more important: Was he keeping the Sabbath for others to see? One invisible Being was there, who could see and know all things, even his thoughts. Therefore he decided to take a warm shower and to sleep instead.

The pastor said that the episode influenced other subsequent decisions in his life, even the way he tithed. He could have pretended to return tithe while giving a lesser amount than what is expected by God. But he remembered that he was not alone. There was One who knew and always knows, and nothing is hidden from Him.

Through this week’s account we will review the spiritual consequences of a lack of integrity and unfaithfulness, the seriousness of vows, as well as God’s readiness to accept the sinner and to forgive those who confess their sins.

#### inScribe

Write out Acts 5:1–11 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Acts 5:3, 4. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `