---
title: 'A Planned Theft'
date: 12/03/2023
---

#### inGest

While persecution was doing its job of purifying and reviving early Christians, many were cut off from their friends and family because of the prejudice of the Jews. Now they were vulnerable and in great need of food and shelter!

Luckily the answer of the brethren was quick. After the outpouring of the Holy Spirit, their focus was to help each other and God’s cause. No one lacked anything, because no one considered themselves owners of their goods (see Acts 4:32–37), having all things in common, the “possessors of lands or houses sold them” (v. 34) laying the proceeds at the apostles’ feet. Resembling the Old Testament storehouse system with which they were familiar, all goods were collected at a centralized point and distributed in an equitable way, “as anyone had need” (v. 35).

It is interesting to note that before the Pentecost, the people would dedicate their properties and bring the proceeds to the storehouse and to the Levites (i.e., Lev. 27:14–25). But in Acts 4:36 we see an inversion of this order. Joses, a Levite from Cyprus, sells his field and brings the money to the apostles’ feet (who were not Levites). By the Holy Spirit indicating the new locus of His storehouse in the New Testament era, the church and its appointed leaders became the new ministers of the storehouse. After all, the temple would be destroyed in a few years.

Ananias and Sapphira were deeply impressed by the manifestation of the Holy Spirit in wonders and miracles. No undue influence compelled them to give. Instead, they opened the door to the Holy Spirit, who softened their otherwise selfish and greedy hearts. Under that strong conviction, they pledged to sell their property, bringing the proceeds to the Lord.

But after a while the conviction subsided, and they started to regret what they vowed. They could have thought that it was out of emotionalism and that they had decided too fast. So they agreed to reconsider their pledge.

Attempting to keep the high reputation conferred upon those who sold their properties, and also to remain entitled to be maintained by the general fund, they found a solution. This pair would keep part of the proceeds for themselves and remit the remaining part.

The rest of the story is well known. When they “brought a certain part” (Acts 5:2) of the proceeds, laying it at the apostles’ feet, they were met with swift judgment from God. What Peter says in Acts 5:3, 4 before their death is significant. First, they allowed Satan to fill their hearts. Am I allowing Satan to fill my heart with thoughts or information that discourages me to give, or to keep my vows made to the Lord?

Peter said that by keeping back part of the price, they had also lied to the Holy Spirit. This is an indication that giving is a transaction with God, and not with other mortals. How could they dare to believe that God would not know what was happening? Did they forget that our omniscient “God is not mocked” (Gal. 6:7)?

Peter adds that they were free to keep the land to themselves, meaning that no one was forced to sell and to give. But once vowed, they were no longer owners. Only then, retaining a part or the totality would constitute theft.

` `