---
title: 'Fear of Death'
date: 13/03/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Why was the judgment upon Ananias and Sapphira so serious? The early church would be demoralized if love of money and pretentious spirituality (generosity included) would mark its members. Giving is a spiritual discipline, fundamental for spiritual growth, and is motivated and weighed by the Holy Spirit. It leads to deeper trust and closer intimacy with God, generating a peace “which surpasses all understanding” (Phil. 4:7).

At the same time, Satan uses fear to prevent our growth in trust. Paul indicates that “fear of death” may lead us to become “subject to bondage” (Heb. 2:15). It is by “fearing the death” (or loss) of our appetites, emotional life, or reputation, just to mention some examples, that we are tempted to sin. It is by trying to remain alive to this world that we avoid dying to self, eating what is inappropriate (quality and amount) and when inappropriate, developing inappropriate relationships, and trying to parade ourselves.

The Bible teaches us that the only way to be truly alive is to die to self. Many times our natural inclinations, what seem right and desirable to us, lead to death (Prov. 14:12). Paul understood the importance of dying to his own preferences when he said, “I have been crucified with Christ; it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me; and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself for me” (Gal. 2:20).

Those who are subjected to the “fear of death” are invited to die for a life controlled by themselves, and to live a new life, now controlled by the Holy Spirit. By keeping part of the money, Ananias and Sapphira rejected the idea to become vulnerable, deciding to be their own providers, instead of relying completely upon God. They believed that by giving all that was promised, they would lack ability to acquire property or to gratify their desires. By deciding to remain in control of their own lives, they excluded Christ from the throne of the heart.

It is also by fearing to die for (or the loss of) competence or abundance, and refusing to trust, that some people refuse to tithe, or give a pretense tithe (they give a smaller percentage of their income than which is required by God). Usually a pretense tithe is given in an attempt to save their face before others, who may criticize them if they don’t tithe. But doesn’t God know how much do we earn?

Another way to allow fear to take control and incur in Ananias and Sapphira’s deception is by refusing to return the proportion of the income that was promised as a regular offering. Different from tithe, which is holy by God’s designation, when a proportion (or percentage) of the income is vowed for some period given in addition to the tithe, that proportion becomes holy during the period that was proposed. The giver has no longer any right to that portion.

Using those funds that belong to God in an emergency, even if planning to repay them later, or giving a different percentage than what is expected or was vowed, “is no less heinous in His sight now than in the apostles’ time.” (Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1911], 76.)

` `