---
title: A Predictable God
date: 15/03/2023
---

#### inVite

In different parts of the Bible, including the account of Ananias and Sapphira, the Creator of heaven and earth is presented as a God that knows all and sees everything. He even knows our thoughts and weighs them (i.e., Prov. 21:8). He has the authority to judge and to apply justice because He is the Creator and is omniscient. Numbers 14:18 presents two possible reactions that God may display while dealing with sin in His creatures (all of us). The first one sounds encouraging to us because although He knows our sins, God is depicted as being “longsuffering and abundant in mercy, forgiving iniquity and transgression.”

On the other hand, His second possible reaction to our sins seems disturbing. Here God is shown as the one who “by no means clears the guilty, visiting [judging or punishing] the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation.”

Of course, He used this last approach while dealing with Ananias and Sapphira, but was it arbitrary? Is He an unpredictable, unstable, harsh God, subject to human passions, which may unexpectedly be merciful with some or capriciously change His mind and visit others with judgment? If He is this kind of unstable God, could He be appeased through self-denial or sacrifices?

The Bible tells us about a loving, highly predictable, self-sacrificing God whose behavior is not subject to variation, who cannot be bribed by any human action (works). Instead, when the human race deserved death, He chose to sacrifice Himself, becoming the offering and dying for the sins of all! In that way the judgment and vengeance that we all deserve were laid upon Him, constituting our only hope for receiving mercy.

If He died for all, why then weren’t Ananias and Sapphira treated with mercy? Because it is only when someone recognizes their sins and confesses them that mercy becomes available. Those who never confess, who never transfer their sins to Jesus, will end up dying the eternal death.

Judgment will finally be executed upon them because judgment is executed upon sin (regardless of where it is found), and sin is with them. Sins transferred to Jesus by confession have already been paid for by our Savior through His suffering and death. But if sins are not confessed, they remain with the sinner, and judgment will overtake them, because they are identified with sin.

Contrary to the Laodiceans, which did not confess their sins because they felt they were good in their own eyes, David did not trust his own perceptions, but asked, “Search me, O God, and know my heart; try me, and know my anxieties [thoughts]; and see if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting” (Ps. 139:23, 24, NKJV). Not running from guilt at any cost (as many do today), David was interested to know the worst details of his case, so that he could confess! Once confessed, sin is laid upon Christ—God’s offering for us—and the sinner is forgiven (1 John 1:9).

What if, before coming to Peter, Ananias and Sapphira would have said, “Lord, we promised something under the conviction of the Holy Spirit. Nevertheless, we are now regretful about our pledge. The love of money and lack of trust are overcoming us, and we are ashamed to confess that we are not even sorry about it. Please, remind us about Your goodness and give us true repentance” [see Rom. 2:4]. Please, send us Your Holy Spirit to change our heart, making us like You”? Would God not have treated them with mercy instead of with judgment?

`Where is Jesus in Luke 20:27–40?`

`What is preventing me to take advantage of God’s mercy? What prevents me to recognize the worst scenario of my case and to confess my sins to Jesus while there is still time?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`