---
title: inQuire
date: 17/03/2023
---

#### inQuire

`Does someone need to vow to keep the Sabbath or to return the tithe so that the Sabbath and the tithe become holy? Or are they intrinsically holy? Why?`

`What is wrong with the act of parading our possessions (ostentation)? What does it indicate about someone’s spiritual life and their relationship with Jesus?`

`Even understanding that God knows everything, some people return as tithe a smaller percentage of their income than the 10 percent that is stipulated by Him. What do you believe are their possible motivations for doing it?`

`If our God is loving and predictable and cannot be bribed by our tithes and offerings, why does Malachi 3:9 say that those who rob Him are cursed? Is it an appropriate motivation returning tithes to avoid the curse? Would that tithe be accepted by Him in this situation?`

`If it is far easier to recognize the sins of others than our own sins, how do we develop that kind of honesty which allows us to identify them? Which of God’s provided tools are intended to help us in that endeavor?`

`The Bible says that it is “the goodness of God [that] leads you to repentance” (Rom. 2:4). So how are the tithes and offerings helping us to regularly recall God’s goodness? What other spiritual disciplines help us to regularly remember God’s goodness, making repentance easier?`

`Some argue that any kind of guilt is harmful and must be avoided at any price. Do you believe that, based on what the Bible says, there is a healthy guilt? Can anyone truly confess their sins before acknowledging themselves as guilty?`

`Is confession the same as a promise to never commit that sin again? Explain.`

`Must someone feel sorry about it before confessing a sin? Are sinners naturally able to feel sorry about a sin they like? Is repentance a feeling or an attitude?`