---
title:  “The Year Of The LORD’s Favor” 
date:  17/03/2021
---

`Who is speaking in Isaiah 61:1?`

The Spirit of God is on this anointed person, which means that he is a messiah or the Messiah. He is to “bring good news to the oppressed, to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and release to the prisoners” (Isa. 61:1, NRSV). Whom does that sound like? Compare Isaiah 42:1–7, where God’s Servant is described in very similar terms.

Isaiah 61:2 talks about the “acceptable year of the LORD.” The Messiah, who is anointed as the Davidic King and Deliverer, proclaims a special year of divine favor at the time when He proclaims liberty. Compare Leviticus 25:10, where God commands the Israelites to proclaim liberty in the holy fiftieth year: “It shall be a jubilee for you: you shall return, every one of you, to your property and every one of you to your family” (NRSV). This means that persons who had been forced to sell their ancestral land or to become servants in order to survive hard times (Lev. 25:25–55) would reclaim their land and freedom. Because the jubilee year began with the blowing of a trumpet on the Day of Atonement (Lev. 25:9), we have mentioned this passage before in connection with Isaiah 58.

While “the year of the LORD’s favor” (NRSV) in Isaiah 61:2 is a kind of jubilee year, it is not simply an observance of Leviticus 25. This year is announced by the Messiah, the King, when He reveals Himself through a ministry of liberation and restoration. This is similar to some ancient Mesopotamian kings who promoted social kindness by proclaiming release from debts during early years of their reigns. The Messiah’s ministry goes far beyond the scope of the Leviticus 25 law. Not only does He “proclaim liberty to the captives,” He also binds up the brokenhearted, comforts those who mourn, and brings about their restoration (Isa. 61:1–11). Furthermore, in addition to “the year of the LORD’s favor,” he proclaims “the day of vengeance of our God” (Isa. 61:2, NRSV).

`When was Isaiah’s prophecy fulfilled? Luke 4:16–21. How did Jesus’ ministry accomplish this? Also, ask yourself this important question: We, of course, are not Jesus. But we are to represent Him to the world. What are the things the Messiah does, as expressed in Isaiah 61:1–3, that we, in our limited capacities, should be doing, as well? And what are some of the practical ways in which we can do these things?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Patriarchs and prophets [had] predicted the coming of a distinguished Teacher, whose words were to be clothed with invincible power and authority. He was to preach the gospel to the poor, and proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. He was to set judgment in the earth; the isles were to wait for His law; the Gentiles were to come to His light, and kings to the brightness of His rising. He was “the messenger of the covenant,” and “the Sun of righteousness.” . . .

And “when the fulness of time was come, God sent forth his Son.” . . . The heavenly Teacher had come. Who was He? No less a being than the Son of God Himself. He appeared as God, and at the same time as the Elder Brother of the human race.—_Reflecting Christ_, p. 16.

God does not compel men to give up their unbelief. Before them are light and darkness, truth and error. It is for them to decide which they will accept. The human mind is endowed with power to discriminate between right and wrong. God designs that men shall not decide from impulse, but from weight of evidence, carefully comparing scripture with scripture. Had the Jews laid by their prejudice and compared written prophecy with the facts characterizing the life of Jesus, they would have perceived a beautiful harmony between the prophecies and their fulfillment in the life and ministry of the lowly Galilean.

Many are deceived today in the same way as were the Jews. . . . Whoever will prayerfully study the Bible, desiring to know the truth, that he may obey it, will receive divine enlightenment. He will understand the Scriptures. “If any man willeth to do His will, he shall know of the teaching.” John 7:17, R. V.—_The Desire of Ages_, pp. 458, 459.

The ear of the Lord is open to the cries of those who are in His service. He has promised: “I will guide thee with Mine eye.” Psalm 32:8. Walk humbly with God, and ask Him to make your course of duty plain. When He speaks to His representatives and asks them to be laborers together with Him, they will do the same kind of work that Jesus announced as His work when He stood up to read in the synagogue at Nazareth. . . .

. . . In presenting to the sinner a personal, sin-pardoning Saviour, we reach a hand of sympathy and Christlike love to grasp the hand of one fallen, and, laying hold of the hand of Christ by faith, we form a link of union between the sinner and the Saviour.

The end is near, and every soul is now to walk carefully, humbly, meekly with Christ Jesus. . . . He says: “Without Me ye can do nothing.” John 15:5. We need to look to Jesus constantly in order that He may impress upon us His own lovely image. We are to behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. Then we shall reveal Christ to our fellow men.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 9, pp. 202, 203.