---
title:  America and Babylon
date:   02/06/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “ ‘At that time Michael shall stand up, the great prince who stands watch over the sons of your people; and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation, even to that time. And at that time your people shall be delivered, every one who is found written in the book’ ” (Dan. 12:1, NKJV).

**Introduction**

**The Most Supreme**: Rev. 13:11, 12

With a first-world trade profile, leading the world in high technology, the film industry, and in higher education, the United States of America still remains “the world’s unchallenged superpower.”* Even for those of us who do not live in the United States, its power and dominance seem to be able to reach all, from what we watch to the way our countries are led. But have you ever wondered why this is? How is it that this country can have such an influence on the world as a whole?

Bearing these things in mind, I remember when Barack Obama was first inaugurated as the forty-forth president of the United States on January 20, 2009. “A New Birth of Freedom,” a line taken from a speech by President Abraham Lincoln in 1863, was the theme of the ceremony as Obama took the oath of office as the new president. Although it was a huge breakthrough to see the first African American elected to this position, I will never forget the buzz that it created around our churches: would he be the one to bring about the Sunday law? Would he be the “beast” that is spoken of in Revelation 13? Would his time in office bring the coming of Jesus sooner? Fast-forward nine years; Obama’s presidency has come and gone, and these prophecies have been placed on the next president.

The book of Revelation is filled with prophetic symbolism and imagery, and with each new president that comes, we look toward the signs of that book. Now, there is nothing wrong with keeping our eyes on what is taking place in the world, but it can sometimes become daunting thinking that this great power will be the one to bring into play the things that we read of in Revelation 13.

Yes, America may be the world’s unchallenged superpower, but we should never forget that in all its power and might, there is One who is greater still. Psalm 47:8 tells us that “God reigns over the nations; / God sits on His holy throne” (NKJV). No matter what takes place on earth, in the present or the future, God still sits on His throne; He is still in control. As we turn our focus to the role that America plays in Bible prophecy, let us not neglect to remember that John’s book of Revelation is to reveal to us the beauty of Jesus—the Most Supreme!

<sup>* Jonathan Adelman, “Why The U.S. Remains the World’s Unchallenged Superpower,” November 24, 2013, http://www.forbes.com/sites/realspin/2013/11/24/why-the-u-s-remains-the -worlds-unchallenged-superpower/#61c7aa1c1fd8.</sup>

_Abigail Hazel, Wolverhampton, England_