---
title:  Can You See the Endgame?
date:   03/06/2018
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 3:18; 13:15

The United States has firmly established itself as the world leader in freedom and democracy. But the Bible states that this lamblike beast spoke “like a dragon” (Rev. 13:11).

“In order for the United States to form an image to the beast, the religious power must so control the civil government that the authority of the state will also be employed by the church to accomplish her own ends.”1

But what of the religious divide? Consider that the uniting has begun . . . “The Augsburg . . . Lutheran-Catholic concord ‘is one of the most important ecumenical moments of the century,’ said the Rev. Joseph Komonchak.”2

This document, signed in 1999, declares that the doctrine that Luther thought was central to the Reformation was, in effect, all a misunderstanding. The agreement has deep implications for future relations among Catholics and Protestants. The accord gives added promise to the ideal of full communion, or merge, between the churches.

In 2001 Pope John Paul II “became the first Pope to set foot in the country [of Greece] since the Great Schism of 1054 that split Christianity into its eastern and western branches.” He traveled on to Syria and became the first “pope to enter a mosque, a symbolic act of friendship towards Islam.”3

Fast-forward 13 years to January 2014, when Tony Palmer, an Evangelical Episcopal bishop, was sent by Pope Francis as a special envoy to a Charismatic Evangelical Leadership Conference hosted by Kenneth Copeland.

At this conference he shared a video made by Pope Francis, after which he declared that “the protest is over.”

On September 24, 2016, Pope Francis became the first pope to address both houses of Congress. His message called for the leading nation to be more accountable to its impact on the earth’s climate.

The world is not oblivious to the growing relationship of the papacy with other religious and political establishments and the promising “endgame.” It just needs people with the spiritual eye salve of discernment to interpret those signs for them (cf. Matt. 16:3). Are you the one with “spiritual eye salve” to share? Be the one.

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Maranatha, p. 169.</sup>
<sup>2. Charles Trueheart, “Faiths Heal Ancient Rift Over Faith,” November 1, 1999, The Washington Post, https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/politics/1999/11/01/faiths-heal-ancient -rift-over-faith/fab54c31-5f64-414a-ad0b-e612ae12f1c0/?utm_term=.02cea48f3cab.</sup>
<sup>3. Peter Gould, “ Analysis: Bridging Religious Divides,” BBC News, May 9, 2001, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/1321635.stm.</sup>

_Joseph Higgins, Wolverhampton, United Kingdom_