---
title:  Well, I Never Saw That Coming!
date:   04/06/2018
---

**Logos**: Dan. 13:5; Amos 3:8; Matt. 11:28; 1 Thess. 5:3–6; 2 Pet. 3:11–14

The year 2016 will go down as the year of surprises!

Britain voted for Brexit. A virus threatened to put an end to the Summer Olympics. The Chicago Cubs won their first baseball World Series since 1908, apparently breaking a 108-year-old curse, and (with odds 5000–1) outsiders Leicester City won the FA Premier League in England. Italy continues to “pluck” hundreds of “migrants out of the sea,”* and thousands more attempted to cross the Mediterranean as Slovenia, Croatia, and Macedonia closed their borders.

The world reeled from the terrorist attacks in Brussels and from the revelation of their links to the attacks in Paris in 2015. EgyptAir hit the headlines for a second time after flight MS804 went missing over the Mediterranean Sea. A gunman opened fire at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, killing 49 people and injuring another 53. And a lorry mowed down hundreds of people on a Nice beachfront, killing 86 on Bastille Day.

In 2016 we lost Harper Lee, author of To Kill a Mockingbird; Gene Wilder, the original screen Willy Wonka; Ray Tomlinson, the guy who invented e-mail; and Princess Leia actress Carrie Fisher; and we said goodbye to pop icons Prince and Muhammad Ali—both arguably two of “The Greatest” celebrities the world has known.

But perhaps the biggest surprise came on Tuesday, November 8, when American Republican nominee Donald J. Trump achieved one of the most improbable political victories in modern United States history as he was formally elected the forty-fifth president of the United States of America. In a year of surprises, the collective gasp was, “Well, I never saw that coming!” I wouldn’t be surprised if even Daniel, who declared that God “removeth kings, and setteth up kings” (Dan. 2:21), might have been caught a bit off guard by that one! But Paul, in writing to the church in Thessalonica, reminded his readers that God’s people, by revelation and association, are ahead of the game (1 Thess. 5:3–6).

Amos, in presenting the phrase the day of the Lord, had already argued the point: “Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets” (Amos 3:7).

Even Peter weighs in with the thought that far from being shocked, we should eagerly anticipate the surprises—not so that we can declare “I told you so” but so that we should become reflective. “Check yourself,” so to speak, Peter admonishes in 2 Peter 3:11, as you are awakened to the fact that beyond the shocks and surprises lies the fulfillment of verses 13 and 14.

Revelation 13 presents us with a picture of two world powers symbolized by two prophetic beasts. Daniel has already told us that beasts symbolize nations or world powers (Dan. 7:17, 23). And if you flip back in your mind to a study of Revelation 13:1–10, you will come to the conclusion that the first beast represents papal Rome.

We have the forty-two-month time prophecy of Revelation 13:5 ending with the seemingly fatal demise of the papacy in 1798. Then another beast, this time not out of the sea but coming up from the land, is revealed (Rev. 13:11).

The historians among us will recall that the United States gained independence in 1776, had established its Constitution by 1787, and had formulated the Bill of Rights by 1791. It’s hardly surprising, then, that by 1798 this new nation had become a world power. The cold comparison of prophecy to chronology shows that only America matches the description.

America has been dubbed “the land of opportunity and liberty.” In the words of Abraham Lincoln during the Gettysburg address, “our fathers brought forth on this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.” The first amendment made clear that “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.”

What power there was in those two lamblike horns—horns of freedom! What an asylum this nation, founded upon principles of republicanism and Protestantism, has proved to be to the oppressed of earth, just as Jesus the Lamb spread forth His welcoming arms beckoning all, “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest” (Matt. 11:28).

In a chilling foreshadowing of America’s role, the Statue of Liberty has fastened to it a bronze plaque with these words of invitation inscribed: “ ‘Give me your tired, your poor, / Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, / The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. / Send these, the homeless, tempesttost to me.’ ”

Former President Barack Obama underpinned his campaign with the slogan “Yes, We Can!” This positive epitaph perhaps becomes somewhat uncomfortable in light of Revelation 13. From this point on, the second beast, more and more, takes on the characteristics of the first until he finally forms an exact image of the former (Rev. 13:11–14).

Did you see that coming? God’s Word tells us in advance that this is not the end, but the beginning of the end. Since prophecy must be fulfilled, Jesus offers us this assurance: “These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world” (John 16:33).

<sup>* Philip Pullella, “Migrant Crisis: Italy Plucks Nearly 1400 Migrants out of the Sea,” March 30, 2016, http://www.smh.com.au/world/migrant-crisis/migrant-crisis-italy-plucks-nearly-1400-migrants-out-of-the-sea-20160329-gntmx1.html.</sup>

_Andrew Hazel, Wolverhampton, United Kingdom_