---
title:  Action . . . and Cut . . .
date:   05/06/2018
---

**Testimony**: 1 Pet. 1:13

From hostile feelings to imprisonment, fiery trials and sacrifice are inevitable for the Christian. Revelation 13:4, 7 testifies of how “they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast.” And the beast was permitted to wage “war with the saints, and to overcome them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues, and nations.” Questions such as, “Would I be able to stand if it were happening to me?” race through our minds, which can make us either fearful or more determined to stand like the brave “fixing our eyes on Jesus, the pioneer and perfecter of faith” (Heb. 12:2, NIV).

When life is smooth, being a Christian is easy; but when faced with troubles, it can be hard. Satan tries to destroy our faith by sending circumstances that make us doubt the goodness of the Lord. Overcome with fear, many fall into the trap of focusing on self as opposed to Christ, who “was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin” (Heb. 4:15).

“The more we contemplate the character of Christ, and the more we experience of His saving power, the more keenly shall we realize our own weakness and imperfection, and the more earnestly shall we look to Him as our strength and our Redeemer. We have no power in ourselves to cleanse the soul temple from its defilement; but as we repent of our sins against God, and seek pardon through the merits of Christ, He will impart that faith which works by love and purifies the heart. By faith in Christ and obedience to the law of God we may be sanctified, and thus obtain a fitness for the society of holy angels and the white-robed redeemed ones in the kingdom of glory.”*

In this sinful world we should look to Christ as our hope. He is the righteousness of all who believe in Him. We have great hope that the world will not continue as it is. “This calls for patient endurance and faithfulness on the part of God’s people” (Rev. 13:10, NIV). The Christian who does not lower the standard but looks to Christ as the greatest example will receive a reward in heaven for their endurance.

**React**

`1. How can you learn from Jesus and exemplify His character when you go through tough times?`

`2. With so many world events taking place concerning the end times, how can you ensure a life free from fear?

_* Ellen G. White, The Sanctified Life, p. 83._