---
title:  Ready or Not
date:   06/06/2018
---

**How-to**: Dan. 12:1; Rev. 13:14–17

When we hear America and Babylon in the same sentence, the emphasis is usually on “the time of trouble.” There is often so much fear and discouragement when it is presented to us without practical tips on how to get through it. So when the time does come, what are we to do? How do we go about making sure our lives are maintained throughout this period?

Be prepared. Revelation 13 tells us that this beast will cause those who do not have the mark of the beast to be unable to buy or sell. Satan has caused this generation to be so consumed with materialistic things that once we are unable to buy things that are mere wants, our faith could be tested. We must learn to rely on the essentials, asking God to reform our minds so that consumerism will not cause us to fall for a simple love of buying. When it comes to the things we need, it is counseled that we know how to grow our own foods and make our own clothes! Skills that seem to be old-fashioned may be just the things that will help us!

Study. The beast is able to deceive the earth through its miracles. But how will you know a true diamond from a false one if you don’t know the characteristics of the real deal? Yes, study the role that America will have, but don’t neglect to study the character of God. Simply by knowing Him and His works, you will be able to see all other false workings.

Remember who is in control. Daniel 12:1 highlights not only the fact that there will be a time of trouble but also that Michael will stand up for His people and deliver them during this dark period. Therefore, we should not let the time of trouble cloud our minds with fear and despair because God has prophesied in the very same verse that all those whose names are found in the book of life shall be saved.

In 2 Peter 1:19, the purpose of prophecy is for it to be studied and applied; and as a result, Jesus will reside in our hearts, meaning the prophetic words are designed to cause a wholistic change in a person, changing us to prepare for their fulfillment.

**React**

`1. What other ways can you prepare for this period in earth’s history?`

`2. What things do you think are preventing you from being fully prepared?`

`3. In what ways has studying God’s Word changed you?`

_John Watta, London, England_