---
title:  'America: From Lamb-like to Persecutor'
date:   07/06/2018
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 13:11–15

Who can believe that America, whose Founding Fathers set up the two major principles of civil liberty and religious liberty, will, in the last days, repudiate these liberties, persecuting those who refuse to give up their religious beliefs? If you don’t believe that this could happen, think again. Revelation 13 tells us that America, the lamblike beast with two horns (civil and religious liberties), would emerge from a sparsely populated area on earth. Tolerance and openness attracted millions to its shores. Those seeking a better life came in droves, and America quickly became the preeminent world power.

The freedoms America affords its citizenry are America’s most appealing attributes. Many countries do not offer similar liberties to their citizens. Is it even possible that America could abandon its foundational principles and persecute its citizens? Yes! It is not only possible, but the Bible in Revelation prophesies that this is exactly what will happen.

Just before Christ comes again, America is going to collude with the papacy and declare war on those who reject a false system of worship. God’s true worshipers will at first be unable to function economically in the United States and also in the world (as the United States, using its political and economic might, will seek to force other nations to do likewise). The ultimate punishment is death to those who refuse to give up their rights to worship the true God on the true Sabbath. It is all about worship!

What are those who are determined to serve God going to do? If we are alive during this time of persecution before Jesus returns the second time, we must each decide whether or not to worship God.

As a Seventh-day Adventist, I am determined to stand for God and for truth! Christ has promised that all who endure to the end will be saved. God is faithful and will not let us go. He will be right there with us during those perilous times. Let us hold fast to Him now and be ready for a rough time ahead. The lamblike beast and persecutor will not triumph over us.

**React**

`1. Should Seventh-day Adventists who currently live in the United States begin to move to other parts of the world to avoid the impending persecution?`

`2. Do you see signs in the sociopolitical-economic world that show the United States moving toward uniting with the papacy to form strong ties that could be detrimental to those whose religious beliefs are contrary to the papacy’s? If so, what are they?`

_Arlene Thomson, Orlando, Florida, USA_