---
title:  Getting Ready
date:   08/06/2018
---

**Exploration**: Rev. 13:11, 12; 20:4

**Conclude**

Has there been a time when you didn’t prepare for the weather? Perhaps you didn’t tune in to your local forecast and had to face unexpected rain, snow, or heat. As preparation for the weather is important, preparation for Christ’s second coming is essential. As the beast rises (Rev. 13:11, 12), our focus and worship must remain on Christ. While meteorologists aren’t always correct with weather predictions, we can be certain about the coming of Christ. Because we are certain, we must continue to prepare, for the time will come when those who have remained faithful and have not worshiped the beast will reign with Christ forever (Rev. 20:4).

**Consider**

- Listening to the song “Midnight Cry” sung by Jason Crabb. Pay close attention to the lyrics, “I look around me, I see prophecies fulfilling. And the signs of the times, they’re appearing everywhere. I can almost hear my Father, as He says, Son, go get my children.”
- Discussing the quote by Benjamin Franklin, “By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail,” with your Sabbath School class. What significance does this quote have in terms of preparation for the end time and the need for our focus to be on Christ?
- Writing a poem or song about what worship means to you and the ways in which you worship Christ.
- Writing on a card or a paper the Phillips Brooks quote “Do not pray for easy lives; pray to be stronger men. Do not pray for tasks equal to your powers; pray for powers equal to your tasks. Then the doing of your work shall be no miracle, but you yourself shall be a miracle. Every day you shall wonder at yourself, at the richness of life which has come to you by the grace of God.” Keep it in a place where you can look at it and reflect on it as you prepare for your day.
- Worshiping with someone who is sick or shut in. Look up Bible texts together that focus on worship. Discuss the importance of these texts in relation to preparing for Christ’s coming.
- Having a program at your church for children and youth that focuses on worship and preparing them for Christ’s return.

**Connect**

1. Matthew 4:8–10; 24:42–44; Colossians 3:4; 1 Thessalonians 5:1–11.
2. Wes Peppers, “Reaching the Cosmos,” https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hbwGMFnhjHE.

_Michelle Gordon, Glenside, Pennsylvania, USA_