---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   09/12/2017
---

The
Elect
“I say then, Hath God cast away his people? God forbid. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin” (Rom. 11:1).

sabbath
DECEMBER 9
Rom. 11:28–36
Introduction
The Road to Reconciliation


Welcome to Sinners Anonymous (SA). We are an international organization of individuals who have struggled with sin at some point or another. There is a multistep process each member must participate in to be a part of God’s family.

Welcome to Sinners Anonymous (SA).
The twelve-step process that alcoholics go through as members of Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) is the same with our Christian walk. The Jews’ rejection of Christ as the Messiah and their pride caused others to have the opportunity to fully accept Jesus’ sacrifice—His paying the price for sin on the cross as a gift. The steps in AA are the same for us as Christians:

Admit we are powerless over sin.
Believe in a Power greater than us to restore us to sanity.
Decide to turn our wills and lives over to God as we understand Him.
Allow the Spirit of God to search us.
Admit to God, ourselves, and other human beings the exact nature of our wrongs.
Have God remove all defects of character.
Humbly ask Him to remove our shortcomings.
Make a list of all persons we have harmed and become willing to make amends with them all.
Make direct amends with such people wherever possible, except when doing so would injure them or others.
Continue to take personal inventory, and when wrong, promptly admit it.
Through prayer and meditation, improve our conscious contact with God, praying only for knowledge of His will for us and the power to carry that out.
Having had a spiritual awakening as the result of these steps, carry this message to sinners and practice these principles in all our affairs.1
This week we will see that even though we might not understand why God does what He does, through His infinite wisdom we are able to have a relationship with Him and share in His promises for His people. In Romans 11:36 (BLB) “from Him” means that God is the all-sufficient Cause and Source of everything. “Through Him” means that God is the mighty Sustainer and Worker. “Unto Him” means that God must call every creature to give account to Him. All glory is indeed due Him.

1. Adapted from Lauren Brande, “About the Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) 12-Step Recovery Program,” Recovery.org, last updated Aug. 25, 2016, http://www.recovery.org/topics/alcoholics-anonymous-12-step/.
Dawnette Chambers, Austin, Texas, USA

sunday
DECEMBER 10
Deut. 7:7–9; 10; 11
Logos
Elected to Elect Others Romans


First Things First (Romans 11)
Romans, particularly chapter 11, deals with some heavy issues. Depending on how we view God, our understanding of Scripture can be greatly affected. God is not timeless. By timeless, we mean the classic philosophical view of timelessness. Many of the presuppositions in Christianity are based on the philosophies of Plato and Aristotle. At the core of their teaching their god was timeless. Their god was not affected by time and was incompatible with time. When this idea of timelessness is adopted into Christian doctrine, God is seen as one unable to break into human history.

Essentially, in their view, God is constricted by the confines of timelessness. If that is the case, it means that in eternity past God decreed all that would happen, sat down, watched for the fulfillment of it, and was then unable to do anything about it, because change is unacceptable for one who is timeless. This false concept paints a deterministic view of God and suggests He has already decided who will be saved and lost. If we avoid bringing this mind-set of determinism with us as we read Scripture, then passages such as Romans 11 become a bit easier to understand.

When You’re Not “All That and a Bag of Chips” (Deut. 7:7–9)
How would you feel knowing that God chose you, your family, and your entire nation to be God’s special, chosen people? A sense of honor would be an appropriate response; after all, the One who is holy chose you. The Israelite community received an invitation to emulate the Holy One (Lev. 20:26). What a tremendous honor! Unfortunately, that sense of honor could quickly warp into a sense of entitlement and pride, as if there were something innately remarkable about the Israelites that prompted God to choose them. Was there something special about Abraham? Is that why God called him to leave his homeland and travel to a new country (Gen. 12:1)? Abraham did nothing that commended himself to God. God spoke and Abraham responded. God initiated Abraham’s call not because there was anything special about Abraham but because there is something special about God. God chose Abraham for whatever reason; God could have easily chosen somebody else.

That simple detail should have been enough to humble the Israelites; yet they lost sight of the fact that God chooses whom He wants, when He wants, and for whatever reason He desires. While they were still wandering in the wilderness, God had to remind the Israelites that they were not “all that and a bag of chips.” God reminds the Israelites that it was not their size that solicited God’s selection of them; in fact, God tells them that they were the “fewest of all peoples” (Deut. 7:7, NIV). It was because of God’s love that Israel was chosen (verse 8). Israel’s election by God was not something they worked to achieve; it was something they were to freely receive. It was by God’s grace that they were chosen (Rom. 11:5).

From Exclusion to Inclusion (Rom. 11:11–24)
The Israelites were chosen by God to be living examples of what happens when humankind remains in covenant and community with their Creator. This strange nation that had only one God, regarded one day as a celebratory day of worship, and followed ten guiding principles was unique. They were different; yet they were strangely blessed. They seemed to prosper in war, their citizens were healthier, and they amassed great land. Israel’s life as a chosen people was meant to attract others to be a part of this community and receive God’s blessings. After Isaac was saved from sacrifice, Abraham received word from God that through his offspring “all nations on earth will be blessed” (Gen. 22:18, NIV). Israel was chosen and blessed so that others could be blessed and eventually find themselves in the community of God’s elect, the ones who choose God.

Paul uses the metaphor of an engrafted branch to describe this phenomenon of the Gentiles becoming a part of the Jews (Rom. 11:11–24). Gentiles can be engrafted into the root (i.e., family of God). They may not have been included in the root, but because of God’s love, foreign branches have an opportunity to be attached to the root. Salvation is extended to all who would believe. The beautiful thing about Paul’s metaphor in Romans 11 is that no branch is rejected from the root. As long as the branch wants to be engrafted, the engrafting process will occur.

Belief Is Key (Romans 10)
Romans 10 tells us that belief in Jesus Christ is essential. Paul spells it out when he quotes Isaiah in Romans 10:11, “Anyone who believes in him will never be put to shame” (NIV). Salvation is a matter of belief in Jesus, yet Paul raises an interesting question in verse 14: How can anyone believe if they have not heard? The question is the same for us today. How can those not born within the church believe unless they hear? And who will tell them? The love of God ought to compel each of us to tell others about the good news of Jesus so that they can be saved and, in turn, invite others to be a part of the great family of God.

REACT
Why is humility necessary when we use language such as chosen, elect, and remnant?
If God does not exclude others from joining the community, why is it so hard for those already within to accept those from outside?
Why is an understanding of God’s love foundational to understanding the idea of election?
Mark Anthony Reid, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA

monday
DECEMBER 11
Eph. 1:2–11
Testimony
“You Have Been Selected”


“ ‘Grace be to you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ; according as He hath chosen us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love; having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein He hath made us accepted in the Beloved. . . . in whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of Him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will.’ ” (Eph. 1:2-11)

The entire human race has been elected.
The entire human race has been elected. “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life” (John 3:16).

“In the council of heaven provision was made that man, though a transgressor, should not perish in his disobedience, but through faith in Christ as his substitute and surety might become the elect of God, predestinated unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of his will. God wills that all men should be saved; and in giving his only begotten Son as man’s ransom, He has made ample provision of the salvation of the world. None need perish unless they refuse to be adopted as children of God through Christ Jesus. . . . The elect are those who are chosen through Christ unto sanctification of the spirit and belief of the truth. . . .

“Those who respond to the drawing of Christ, through the sovereign mercy of God, are elected to be saved as the obedient children of God. Upon them is manifested the free grace of God, the great love wherewith He hath loved us. The Father sets his love upon his elect people, who live in the midst of men, because they accept the redemption which Christ has purchased for them by his own precious blood. Everyone who will humble himself as a little child, who will receive and obey the Word of God with a child’s simplicity, will be among the elect of God.” 1

REACT
What can I do to make my calling and election sure?
How can I let others know that they have been chosen by God?
1. Ellen G. White, “The Elect of God,” The Messenger, April 12, 1893.
Yolanda Pugh, Tallahassee, Florida, USA

tuesday
DECEMBER 12
Rom. 11:1–10
Evidence
What Rejection Looks Like


Throughout the Old Testament, we see God making a covenant with the children of Israel, establishing them as His chosen people (Exod. 19:5; Deut. 26:18, 19; 1 Pet. 2:9). Despite being set aside, the Israelites desired to be like the surrounding nations. Their constant disregard for God’s commandments led them to be captives of the very nations they wanted to be like.

Their constant disregard for God’s commandments led them to be captives of the very nations they wanted to be like.
In a world where many people claim to be Christians, having a form of godliness (2 Tim. 3:5) and claiming to be the remnant based on their attempt to fulfill righteousness through the law, God tells us, as He told Elijah, that He has a remnant of believers who have accepted the gift of salvation by grace through faith in Jesus Christ.

John Piper explains, “The all glorious God whose glory consists in his freedom to choose whomever He will cannot be determined by or obligated by anything outside himself.”* As we saw in Romans 9:18, “So then He has mercy on whom He desires, and He hardens whom He desires” (NASB).

Second, God’s hardening of the Jews was punishment for their sins. God did it as “retribution” to them (Rom. 11:9) because of their disobedient, hard hearts (Rom. 10:21) and unbelief (Rom. 11:20). Israel had been given much light (Rom. 9:4, 5), but they stubbornly refused to respond to it.

The question of what rejection looks like is answered by three characteristics: first, you will be spiritually dull and insensitive, unable to perceive and understand spiritual truth. Second, your blessings will become a curse. That is the meaning of the quote from Psalm 69:22 (see Rom. 11:9): God gives many blessings to believers and unbelievers alike. However, if they do not honor God and give thanks to Him, then their foolish hearts will be darkened and these blessings will be a curse that keeps them from the supreme joy of knowing God (Rom. 1:21–32). Third, you will be headed for ultimate and final judgment. “May their eyes be darkened so they cannot see, and their backs be bent forever” (Rom. 11:10, NIV).

REACT
What are you willing to change in order to not rebel against God?

* John Piper, “The Argument of Romans 9:14–16,” Desiring God blog, accessed July 19, 2016, http://www.desiringgod.org/articles/the-argument-of-romans-914-16.
Caileigh Harris, Atlanta, Georgia, USA

wednesday
DECEMBER 13
Rom. 10:1–10
How-to
It’s Not Your Job


Having a job is a rewarding experience. It may not be the best socially, but the money earned at the end of it certainly makes it worth it (if you’re being paid well). Your paycheck shows that you have earned your money, whether you had to stand at the cash register, stock the shelves, wait on people to take their orders, or walk dogs that were bigger than you are. Your job, at the very least, rewards you with money. This is our society, it teaches us that hard work is rewarded, whether it is with good grades, scholarships, or promotions. Our society rewards us so much that we do the work for the reward.

It’s not your job to save yourself.
Our societal mind-set overflows into Christianity. We are told to be perfect as our Father in heaven is perfect (Matt. 5:48) and to work out our own salvation (Phil. 2:12). Once again, our minds have turned the motivation into a goal. Being perfect should motivate us to be the best we can be instead of being burdened with all our failures. Philippians 2:13 says, “For it is God who works in you both to will and to do for His good pleasure” (NKJV). God has promised to help us all the way, so salvation is not something we work for as we work for money. Salvation is given to us by our faith in Christ and His sacrifice on the cross.

Well, how do I have faith in Jesus? Romans 10:8, 9 makes it clear that it has to do with your mouth and heart. Colin G. Kruse says, “Confession of Jesus as Lord meant that one belonged to him and submitted to him.”1 You must confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that Christ has risen from the dead. In Roman times, you had to pledge your allegiance to the emperor, so proclaiming publicly that you belonged and were submitted to Christ was asking for trouble.

Nothing has changed now, because inviting Christ to be your Lord means walking the straight and narrow path in a crooked world. Music, friends, significant others, and other things can easily become your “lord.” Many have these things or people as their lord, but faith in those things will not save them from sin. The good news is that Christ has already saved you if only you will accept this gift by living a life of faith. It’s not your job to save yourself.

REACT
Does your life tell others to whom you’re devoted?
What in your life holds you back from total devotion to Christ? Are you willing to let it go?
1. Colin G. Kruse, Paul’s Letter to the Romans (Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans, 2012), p. 410.
Daniel Madden, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada

thursday
DECEMBER 14
Romans 10; 11
Opinion
Part of the Plan


Romans 10 begins with Paul expressing how he desires that Israel be saved. However, from what exactly does Paul want Israel to be saved? In Romans 10:2–4, we see that the people of Israel had a fatal flaw: they were zealous for a God that they did not truly know. They were privileged to have the Holy Scriptures and the law given by Moses. For that reason, they believed that their ability to follow special rules and rituals would make them right with God. Referencing Deuteronomy 30:12–20, Paul reminded his readers that God’s original plan was always righteousness through relationship and not regulation. Moses had taught them that only genuine love for God enabled them to hear and obey Him (Deut. 30:6, 16, 17); but in failing to accept this, Israel missed the mark.

Christ was the embodiment of the love of God for all people.
Christ was the embodiment of the love of God for all people. His righteous life and sacrifice were the way that humanity would come to know the heart of God. Israel had a unique role to play in God’s plan to reveal His love; but they were only part of the plan. In Romans 10:19, 20, Paul points to the prophetic words spoken by Moses and Isaiah, which confirmed that God’s plan was bigger than Israel was and involved other nations and tribes. Through Romans 11, Paul helps his readers understand the interdependent role that Jews and Gentiles play in the plan for salvation. In this chapter we see how God plans to use the rest of the world to reconcile Israel to Himself, even though they had rejected Jesus (Rom. 11:1–10).

Just as God planned to use Israel to save the world, He planned to use the world to save Israel. It was God’s masterful design that His relationship with the Gentiles would stir the Jews to go back to their first love. Both were to be restored to right relationship with God (Rom. 11:28–32).

In many matters of moral, social, and spiritual importance, the world has been more righteous than the church. It sometimes does a better job of reflecting the love of God in matters related to the oppression of the poor, minorities, and women than the church does. Christ said, “By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another” (John 13:35; see Mark 12:30, 31). Fortunately, all hope is not lost. God’s plan still includes the salvation of the church and the world.

REACT
Consider the specific ways that today’s church can learn from the world. Read Romans 11:15, 22, 23.

Ailiana K. Denis, Bolingbrook, Illinois, USA

friday
DECEMBER 15
Rom. 11:5, 6
Exploration
Chosen by Grace


CONCLUDE
The relationship between God and humanity has always been based on His grace and love. He chose Israel to fulfill His plan, His purpose, His will, and His dreams for the world. He chose them out of pure kindness. He chose to enter into a relationship with them that would not be broken. Things did not work out. He never gave up on His love or His plan or His dreams and purpose for Israel. Israel rejected Him. They didn’t embrace His grace and love, pushing Him away from their lives. God felt that rejection. He continued loving anyway. It was His choice.

CONSIDER
Writing Ezekiel 16 in your own words, imagining how God must have felt about Israel.
Visiting a refugee family and asking how they cope with rejection in a new country.
Starting a support group for people on their faith journey.
Writing your own mission statement—the “why” of what you do.
Doing a search online about people who are fulfilling their mission in life.
Visiting a hospital and talking to emergency room nurses and asking why they do what they do and what motivates them. Bring them some goodies to eat.
CONNECT
Hosea 11:1–8; Ezekiel 16; Deuteronomy 8:11–20.
Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chap. 2, “The Chosen People.” Don Jernigan, The Hidden Power of Relentless Stewardship: 5 Keys to Developing a World-Class Organization (New York: RosettaBooks, 2016), chap. 1.
Brennan Manning, The Relentless Tenderness of Jesus (Ada, MI: Revell, 2004).
Sergio Torres, Orlando, Florida, USA