---
title:  Elected to Elect Others Romans
date:   10/12/2017
---

**Logos**:Deut. 7:7–9; 10; 11

**First Things First** (Romans 11)

Romans, particularly chapter 11, deals with some heavy issues. Depending on how we view God, our understanding of Scripture can be greatly affected. God is not timeless. By timeless, we mean the classic philosophical view of timelessness. Many of the presuppositions in Christianity are based on the philosophies of Plato and Aristotle. At the core of their teaching their god was timeless. Their god was not affected by time and was incompatible with time. When this idea of timelessness is adopted into Christian doctrine, God is seen as one unable to break into human history.

Essentially, in their view, God is constricted by the confines of timelessness. If that is the case, it means that in eternity past God decreed all that would happen, sat down, watched for the fulfillment of it, and was then unable to do anything about it, because change is unacceptable for one who is timeless. This false concept paints a deterministic view of God and suggests He has already decided who will be saved and lost. If we avoid bringing this mind-set of determinism with us as we read Scripture, then passages such as Romans 11 become a bit easier to understand.

**When You’re Not “All That and a Bag of Chips”** (Deut. 7:7–9)

How would you feel knowing that God chose you, your family, and your entire nation to be God’s special, chosen people? A sense of honor would be an appropriate response; after all, the One who is holy chose you. The Israelite community received an invitation to emulate the Holy One (Lev. 20:26). What a tremendous honor! Unfortunately, that sense of honor could quickly warp into a sense of entitlement and pride, as if there were something innately remarkable about the Israelites that prompted God to choose them. Was there something special about Abraham? Is that why God called him to leave his homeland and travel to a new country (Gen. 12:1)? Abraham did nothing that commended himself to God. God spoke and Abraham responded. God initiated Abraham’s call not because there was anything special about Abraham but because there is something special about God. God chose Abraham for whatever reason; God could have easily chosen somebody else.

That simple detail should have been enough to humble the Israelites; yet they lost sight of the fact that God chooses whom He wants, when He wants, and for whatever reason He desires. While they were still wandering in the wilderness, God had to remind the Israelites that they were not “all that and a bag of chips.” God reminds the Israelites that it was not their size that solicited God’s selection of them; in fact, God tells them that they were the “fewest of all peoples” (Deut. 7:7, NIV). It was because of God’s love that Israel was chosen (verse 8). Israel’s election by God was not something they worked to achieve; it was something they were to freely receive. It was by God’s grace that they were chosen (Rom. 11:5).

**From Exclusion to Inclusion** (Rom. 11:11–24)

The Israelites were chosen by God to be living examples of what happens when humankind remains in covenant and community with their Creator. This strange nation that had only one God, regarded one day as a celebratory day of worship, and followed ten guiding principles was unique. They were different; yet they were strangely blessed. They seemed to prosper in war, their citizens were healthier, and they amassed great land. Israel’s life as a chosen people was meant to attract others to be a part of this community and receive God’s blessings. After Isaac was saved from sacrifice, Abraham received word from God that through his offspring “all nations on earth will be blessed” (Gen. 22:18, NIV). Israel was chosen and blessed so that others could be blessed and eventually find themselves in the community of God’s elect, the ones who choose God.

Paul uses the metaphor of an engrafted branch to describe this phenomenon of the Gentiles becoming a part of the Jews (Rom. 11:11–24). Gentiles can be engrafted into the root (i.e., family of God). They may not have been included in the root, but because of God’s love, foreign branches have an opportunity to be attached to the root. Salvation is extended to all who would believe. The beautiful thing about Paul’s metaphor in Romans 11 is that no branch is rejected from the root. As long as the branch wants to be engrafted, the engrafting process will occur.

**Belief Is Key** (Romans 10)

Romans 10 tells us that belief in Jesus Christ is essential. Paul spells it out when he quotes Isaiah in Romans 10:11, “Anyone who believes in him will never be put to shame” (NIV). Salvation is a matter of belief in Jesus, yet Paul raises an interesting question in verse 14: How can anyone believe if they have not heard? The question is the same for us today. How can those not born within the church believe unless they hear? And who will tell them? The love of God ought to compel each of us to tell others about the good news of Jesus so that they can be saved and, in turn, invite others to be a part of the great family of God.

**React**

`Why is humility necessary when we use language such as chosen, elect, and remnant?`

`If God does not exclude others from joining the community, why is it so hard for those already within to accept those from outside?`

`Why is an understanding of God’s love foundational to understanding the idea of election?`

_Mark Anthony Reid, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_