---
title:  “You Have Been Selected”
date:   11/12/2017
---

**Testimony**: Eph. 1:2–11

“ ‘Grace be to you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ; according as He hath chosen us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love; having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein He hath made us accepted in the Beloved. . . . in whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of Him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will.’ ” (Eph. 1:2-11)

The entire human race has been elected. “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life” (John 3:16).

“In the council of heaven provision was made that man, though a transgressor, should not perish in his disobedience, but through faith in Christ as his substitute and surety might become the elect of God, predestinated unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of his will. God wills that all men should be saved; and in giving his only begotten Son as man’s ransom, He has made ample provision of the salvation of the world. None need perish unless they refuse to be adopted as children of God through Christ Jesus. . . . The elect are those who are chosen through Christ unto sanctification of the spirit and belief of the truth. . . .

“Those who respond to the drawing of Christ, through the sovereign mercy of God, are elected to be saved as the obedient children of God. Upon them is manifested the free grace of God, the great love wherewith He hath loved us. The Father sets his love upon his elect people, who live in the midst of men, because they accept the redemption which Christ has purchased for them by his own precious blood. Everyone who will humble himself as a little child, who will receive and obey the Word of God with a child’s simplicity, will be among the elect of God.” <sup>1</sup>

**React**

`What can I do to make my calling and election sure?`

`How can I let others know that they have been chosen by God?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, “The Elect of God,” The Messenger, April 12, 1893.</sup>

_Yolanda Pugh, Tallahassee, Florida, USA_