---
title:  What Rejection Looks Like
date:   12/12/2017
---

**Evidence**: Rom. 11:1–10

Throughout the Old Testament, we see God making a covenant with the children of Israel, establishing them as His chosen people (Exod. 19:5; Deut. 26:18, 19; 1 Pet. 2:9). Despite being set aside, the Israelites desired to be like the surrounding nations. Their constant disregard for God’s commandments led them to be captives of the very nations they wanted to be like.

In a world where many people claim to be Christians, having a form of godliness (2 Tim. 3:5) and claiming to be the remnant based on their attempt to fulfill righteousness through the law, God tells us, as He told Elijah, that He has a remnant of believers who have accepted the gift of salvation by grace through faith in Jesus Christ.

John Piper explains, “The all glorious God whose glory consists in his freedom to choose whomever He will cannot be determined by or obligated by anything outside himself.”<sup>*<sup> As we saw in Romans 9:18, “So then He has mercy on whom He desires, and He hardens whom He desires” (NASB).

Second, God’s hardening of the Jews was punishment for their sins. God did it as “retribution” to them (Rom. 11:9) because of their disobedient, hard hearts (Rom. 10:21) and unbelief (Rom. 11:20). Israel had been given much light (Rom. 9:4, 5), but they stubbornly refused to respond to it.

The question of what rejection looks like is answered by three characteristics: first, you will be spiritually dull and insensitive, unable to perceive and understand spiritual truth. Second, your blessings will become a curse. That is the meaning of the quote from Psalm 69:22 (see Rom. 11:9): God gives many blessings to believers and unbelievers alike. However, if they do not honor God and give thanks to Him, then their foolish hearts will be darkened and these blessings will be a curse that keeps them from the supreme joy of knowing God (Rom. 1:21–32). Third, you will be headed for ultimate and final judgment. “May their eyes be darkened so they cannot see, and their backs be bent forever” (Rom. 11:10, NIV).

**React**

`What are you willing to change in order to not rebel against God?`

<sup>* John Piper, “The Argument of Romans 9:14–16,” Desiring God blog, accessed July 19, 2016, http://www.desiringgod.org/articles/the-argument-of-romans-914-16.</sup>

_Caileigh Harris, Atlanta, Georgia, USA_