---
title:  It’s Not Your Job
date:   13/12/2017
---

**How-to**: Rom. 10:1–10

Having a job is a rewarding experience. It may not be the best socially, but the money earned at the end of it certainly makes it worth it (if you’re being paid well). Your paycheck shows that you have earned your money, whether you had to stand at the cash register, stock the shelves, wait on people to take their orders, or walk dogs that were bigger than you are. Your job, at the very least, rewards you with money. This is our society, it teaches us that hard work is rewarded, whether it is with good grades, scholarships, or promotions. Our society rewards us so much that we do the work for the reward.

Our societal mind-set overflows into Christianity. We are told to be perfect as our Father in heaven is perfect (Matt. 5:48) and to work out our own salvation (Phil. 2:12). Once again, our minds have turned the motivation into a goal. Being perfect should motivate us to be the best we can be instead of being burdened with all our failures. Philippians 2:13 says, “For it is God who works in you both to will and to do for His good pleasure” (NKJV). God has promised to help us all the way, so salvation is not something we work for as we work for money. Salvation is given to us by our faith in Christ and His sacrifice on the cross.

Well, how do I have faith in Jesus? Romans 10:8, 9 makes it clear that it has to do with your mouth and heart. Colin G. Kruse says, “Confession of Jesus as Lord meant that one belonged to him and submitted to him.”<sup>1</sup> You must confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that Christ has risen from the dead. In Roman times, you had to pledge your allegiance to the emperor, so proclaiming publicly that you belonged and were submitted to Christ was asking for trouble.

Nothing has changed now, because inviting Christ to be your Lord means walking the straight and narrow path in a crooked world. Music, friends, significant others, and other things can easily become your “lord.” Many have these things or people as their lord, but faith in those things will not save them from sin. The good news is that Christ has already saved you if only you will accept this gift by living a life of faith. It’s not your job to save yourself.

**React**

`Does your life tell others to whom you’re devoted?`

`What in your life holds you back from total devotion to Christ? Are you willing to let it go?`

<sup>1. Colin G. Kruse, Paul’s Letter to the Romans (Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans, 2012), p. 410.</sup>

_Daniel Madden, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada_