---
title:  Part of the Plan
date:   14/12/2017
---

**Opinion**: Romans 10; 11

Romans 10 begins with Paul expressing how he desires that Israel be saved. However, from what exactly does Paul want Israel to be saved? In Romans 10:2–4, we see that the people of Israel had a fatal flaw: they were zealous for a God that they did not truly know. They were privileged to have the Holy Scriptures and the law given by Moses. For that reason, they believed that their ability to follow special rules and rituals would make them right with God. Referencing Deuteronomy 30:12–20, Paul reminded his readers that God’s original plan was always righteousness through relationship and not regulation. Moses had taught them that only genuine love for God enabled them to hear and obey Him (Deut. 30:6, 16, 17); but in failing to accept this, Israel missed the mark.

Christ was the embodiment of the love of God for all people. His righteous life and sacrifice were the way that humanity would come to know the heart of God. Israel had a unique role to play in God’s plan to reveal His love; but they were only part of the plan. In Romans 10:19, 20, Paul points to the prophetic words spoken by Moses and Isaiah, which confirmed that God’s plan was bigger than Israel was and involved other nations and tribes. Through Romans 11, Paul helps his readers understand the interdependent role that Jews and Gentiles play in the plan for salvation. In this chapter we see how God plans to use the rest of the world to reconcile Israel to Himself, even though they had rejected Jesus (Rom. 11:1–10).

Just as God planned to use Israel to save the world, He planned to use the world to save Israel. It was God’s masterful design that His relationship with the Gentiles would stir the Jews to go back to their first love. Both were to be restored to right relationship with God (Rom. 11:28–32).

In many matters of moral, social, and spiritual importance, the world has been more righteous than the church. It sometimes does a better job of reflecting the love of God in matters related to the oppression of the poor, minorities, and women than the church does. Christ said, “By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another” (John 13:35; see Mark 12:30, 31). Fortunately, all hope is not lost. God’s plan still includes the salvation of the church and the world.

**React**

`Consider the specific ways that today’s church can learn from the world. Read Romans 11:15, 22, 23.`

_Ailiana K. Denis, Bolingbrook, Illinois, USA_