---
title:  Chosen by Grace
date:   15/12/2017
---

**Exploration**: Rom. 11:5, 6

**Conclude**

The relationship between God and humanity has always been based on His grace and love. He chose Israel to fulfill His plan, His purpose, His will, and His dreams for the world. He chose them out of pure kindness. He chose to enter into a relationship with them that would not be broken. Things did not work out. He never gave up on His love or His plan or His dreams and purpose for Israel. Israel rejected Him. They didn’t embrace His grace and love, pushing Him away from their lives. God felt that rejection. He continued loving anyway. It was His choice.

**Consider**

- Writing Ezekiel 16 in your own words, imagining how God must have felt about Israel.
- Visiting a refugee family and asking how they cope with rejection in a new country.
- Starting a support group for people on their faith journey.
- Writing your own mission statement—the “why” of what you do.
- Doing a search online about people who are fulfilling their mission in life.
- Visiting a hospital and talking to emergency room nurses and asking why they do what they do and what motivates them. Bring them some goodies to eat.

**Connect**

1. Hosea 11:1–8; Ezekiel 16; Deuteronomy 8:11–20.
2. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chap. 2, “The Chosen People.” Don Jernigan, The Hidden Power of Relentless Stewardship: 5 Keys to Developing a World-Class Organization (New York: RosettaBooks, 2016), chap. 1.
3. Brennan Manning, The Relentless Tenderness of Jesus (Ada, MI: Revell, 2004).

_Sergio Torres, Orlando, Florida, USA_