---
title:  Keep Loving Each Other
date:  19/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Hebrews 13:1, 2; Hebrews 13:4, 5; Romans 12:13; Hebrews 13:4, 5; Luke 16:10–18; Hebrews 13:7–17; Hebrews 13:10–14; Mark 8:34.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Keep on loving your Christian brothers” (Hebrews 13:1, WE).

ALL THROUGH HEBREWS, Paul says we belong to the family of Jesus. Jesus is our Older Brother. He is also our High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader. He is our King, too. As our Priest-King, “Jesus makes men holy. He takes away their sins. Both Jesus and the ones being made holy have the same Father. That is why Jesus is not ashamed to call them His brothers” (Hebrews 2:11, WE). The work of Jesus shows us He loves us the same as an Older Brother. Because of His love, we should love each other. We also should do for each other what Jesus did for us. That is why Paul says to us: “Keep on loving your Christian brothers” (Hebrews 13:1, WE).

How do we show this love? Paul tells us: “Encourage each other every day, while you still have something called ‘today.’ Help each other so that none of you will be fooled by sin and become too hard to change” (Hebrews 3:13, WE; Hebrews 10:24, 25; Hebrews 12:15–17). In chapter 13, Paul tells us more about this love. When we love as Jesus loved, we will: (1) help people (Hebrews 13:2); (2) visit prisoners and the suffering (Hebrews 13:3); (3) not be greedy (Hebrews 13:5, 6); (4) and obey our leaders (Hebrews 13:7–17). Finally, Paul, asks his readers to show their love by praying for him (Hebrews 13:18, 19).