---
title:  Caring For Each Other 
date:  20/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 13:1, 2, Romans 12:13; 1 Timothy 3:2; Titus 1:8; and 1 Peter 4:9. As these verses show, Christians should remember to welcome people into their homes. Why did Bible writers tell Christians to welcome people and strangers into their homes? How important was this special work during New Testament times?`

In New Testament times, many Christians traveled from place to place to share the Good News. So, these Christians depended on other Christians and non-Christians for help. That is why Paul says, “Always remember to help people by welcoming them into your home” (Hebrews 13:2, ERV).

Paul wants his readers to welcome strangers, too. “Some people have done that and have helped angels without knowing it” (Hebrews 13:2, ERV). For sure, Paul thinks about the visit of the three men to Abraham (Genesis 18:2–15). How do we welcome strangers and people into our homes? We share our belongings with them. We use our things to help the suffering. Jesus did the same thing when He lived on the earth (Hebrews 2:10–18).

What about prisoners? How do we show love to them? Prisoners need our prayers, for sure. But they also need our support. When we take care of their needs, we show them that they are part of our family. When they suffer pain, we suffer with them. That is what Paul means when he says we should share their sufferings (Hebrews 10:32–34).

Paul also wants his readers to remember when they were in prison in the past. The Christians supported each other during this difficult experience: “People laughed at you and beat you. When others [Christians] suffered, you suffered with them” (Hebrews 10:33, NLV). The suffering Paul talks about in this verse helps us remember Moses. Moses “chose to suffer with God’s people instead of having fun doing sinful [wrong] things for awhile” (Hebrews 11:25, NLV). Finally, Paul talks about the best reason we have for showing love to prisoners: “Remember those [people] in prison. Think of them as if you were in prison with them. Remember those [people] who are suffering because of what others [people] have done to them. You may suffer in the same way” (Hebrews 13:3, NLV). We must do for prisoners the things we want people to do for us if we were in prison.

`What can we, as a church, do for prisoners?`