---
title:  Sex Sins And Love For Money 
date:  21/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 13:4, 5; Luke 16:10–18; 1 Corinthians 5:1; Ephesians 5:3–5; and Colossians 3:5. What two evil things do we read about in these verses?`

Paul warns his readers against sex sins and the love for money. These two sins destroy our love for each other. Both Christian writers and non-Christian writers saw a connection between sex sins and a greedy heart.

In Hebrews 13:4, 5, Paul says that Christians should honor marriage. We must not do anything to show that marriage is not important. We should not cheat on our husbands or wives. We should not get a divorce without having a good reason (compare with Matthew 19:9). Any sex we have outside of marriage is wrong (1 Corinthians 5:9–11; 1 Corinthians 6:9, 10; Ephesians 5:5; 1 Timothy 1:9, 10; Revelation 21:8; Revelation 22:15). Among the Greeks and Romans in New Testament times, the rules about sex were far different than rules taught by the Bible. Roman men were allowed to cheat on their wives if they kept their cheating secret. Paul warns that God will judge cheaters. So, Christians should not follow Roman rules about marriage.

The love for money was another awful sin among Romans in the time of Paul. In another letter, Paul says that this love is the reason for all evil (1 Timothy 6:10).

So, how do Christians fight against this evil? Paul gives us the answer in several of his letters. First, Christians should “be happy” with the things they have (Hebrews 13:5, NIrV; read also 2 Corinthians 9:8; Philippians 4:11, 12). Christians also must believe and trust this wonderful promise from God: “ ‘I will never be away from you. I will never leave you alone’ ” (Hebrews 13:5, WE). God gave this promise to His people many times in Bible history (Genesis 28:15; Deuteronomy 31:6, 8; Joshua 1:5; 1 Chronicles 28:20). God gives this promise to us today. We must answer this promise with the words from this song: “The Lord is with me, so I will not be afraid. No one on earth can do anything to harm me” (Psalm 118:6, ERV). The writer of Psalm 118 shows us his trust in God at a time when people hurt him and cause him to suffer deeply.

`What can we do to protect ourselves against sex sins and the love for money?`