---
title:  Remember Your Leaders 
date:  22/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read what Paul says in Hebrews 13:7–17 about our church local leaders. How should we feel about our leaders?`

In Hebrews 13:7–17, Paul tells his readers to respect and obey the leaders of their local church. Paul also invites his readers to “remember” their leaders in the past (Hebrews 13:17, ERV). These leaders first preached Bible truth to the Christians. The leaders also started their local church. So, that is why Paul asks his readers to remember them. But the word “remember” shows us we must do more than think about the nice experiences we had in the past with our pastors. Paul explains that his readers should “remember” their leaders by copying their faith.

Paul believes that the best way you can remember someone is to copy his or her life. For Paul, the church leaders in the past also belong on his list of heroes of faith in Hebrews 11. As we saw, this list ends in chapter 12 with Jesus. Jesus is the best example of faith. One reason why Jesus is the best example is because Jesus never changes. He “is the same yesterday, today, and forever” (Hebrews 13:8, ERV). Jesus is completely different from the false teachers who change with time. These men teach “strange things” (Hebrews 13:9, WE). Their false teachings lead people “in the wrong way” (Hebrews 13:9, ERV).

At the end of Hebrews 13:7–17, Paul tells his readers to “obey” the church leaders they have now: “Do what they say. They keep watch over your souls. They have to tell God what they have done. They should have joy in this and not be sad” (Hebrews 13:17, NLV). The leaders are the pastors of the church. They must answer to God for the spiritual health and the growth of their church members (read also 1 Peter 5:1–4; 1 Corinthians 3:10–15).

Church leaders work for Jesus. Jesus is the “Good Shepherd of the sheep” (Hebrews 13:20, NLV). The leaders will feel joy when their members trust and obey them. The members will feel joy when their leaders show they care and are living examples of faith for the whole church. Then the leaders will serve the church members with joy. God will look at their work and feel joy, too.

`What can you do to help build trust between leaders and members in your church? How also can we build better connections with our leaders worldwide?`