---
title:  Be Careful Of Strange Teachings 
date:  23/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Compare Hebrews 13:9; Hebrews 2:9; Hebrews 4:16; and Hebrews 6:19, 20. In these verses, Paul talks about the mercy or loving favor of God. How do we get this mercy from God? How are our hearts made strong?`

Why does Paul scold his readers about food in Hebrews 13:9? Paul does not scold his readers for refusing to eat food that is not clean. We know from Acts 15 that the church in New Testament times said that Christians should continue to follow some of the food rules from the Old Testament (Acts 15:19, 20). So, why is Paul upset?

Paul warns his readers not to think that obeying food rules will earn them any special favor with God. Paul may be warning his readers against joining the Jewish religious feasts or meals. These meals were connected with the animal offerings in the Jewish temple. The Jews believed that joining these meals gave them special spiritual favor with God. But Paul says that the favor of God does not come from eating these meals. The favor of God comes only by the offering and work of Jesus as our High Priest, or Chief Religious Leader. “The priests, who are Levites, worship at the holy tent. But we have an altar that they have no right to eat from” (Hebrews 13:10, NIrV). In this verse, the word “altar” shows us the offering of Jesus. Jesus gave His life to pay for our sins. The “altar” Jesus died on was the “cross.” This “altar” gives Christians the only “meal” they need to be saved: the bread of life, which is Jesus (John 6:47–58).

In Hebrews, the loving favor of Jesus comes from the throne of God (Hebrews 4:16). Jesus gives us this favor. This favor gives us hope. This hope, as we saw, is the same as a “safe anchor” from a ship (Hebrews 6:19, 20; compare with Hebrews 4:16). This anchor gives us something to hold on to. When our hearts are made strong by holding on to this hope, we will not be led “in the wrong way” by strange teachings (Hebrews 13:9). Then “we will not be pulled away from the true [correct] way” (Hebrews 2:1, ERV).

`Spend some time thinking about the offering of Jesus for you. This offering is complete and perfect. We cannot add anything to this offering to make it better. How does this idea help us see how wrong we are to try to earn the favor of God by our good behavior?`