---
title:  Go To Jesus Outside The Camp 
date:  24/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Compare Hebrews 13:10–14; Mark 8:34; Matthew 10:38; Luke 14:27; and Galatians 2:20. Paul says to go to Jesus outside the camp. What does this word picture show us?`

The place outside the gate was the worst part of the whole Israelite camp. This place was very dirty. The skeletons of animal offerings were burned outside the camp (Leviticus 4:12). Lepers lived outside the camp (Leviticus 13:46), too. Lepers were people with an awful skin disease. The Israelites killed criminals outside the camp. People who insulted God were killed outside the camp, too. Read Leviticus 24:10–16, 23; 1 Kings 21:13; Acts 7:58. The rules in these verses help us see that God lived inside the camp. God did not want any dirty thing inside (Numbers 5:3; Deuteronomy 23:14). So, the Jews threw outside anything that was dirty or not clean.

Jesus died on the cross outside of Jerusalem (John 19:17–20). The place of His death shows us the shame that Jesus accepted when He was nailed to the cross (Hebrews 12:2). The Jews said that Jesus should die because He insulted the Name of God. So, the Jews rejected Jesus. They got Pilate to hang Jesus outside the city walls (Mark 14:63, 64; read Leviticus 24:11, 16). So, Jesus was sent to die outside the camp as something dirty and not clean.

Paul tells his readers to “go to Jesus outside the camp and accept the same shame that he had” (Hebrews 13:13, ERV; read also Hebrews 12:2.) This advice from Paul shows us where God is now: God is outside the camp. When we go to Jesus outside the camp, we do more than accept His shame. We also join with Him (Hebrews 13:13). The story about the gold cow in Exodus 32 and 33 helps us understand this idea better. When the Israelites sinned against God with the gold cow, they rejected God. After they sinned, Moses put up “a tent a short way outside the camp. He called [named] it ‘the meeting tent.’ Anyone who wanted to ask something from the Lord would go to the meeting tent outside the camp” (Exodus 33:7, ERV). In the same way, Paul invites Christians to go to Jesus outside the camp. Jesus will lead His people out of a dying city in search of “the city that will come” (Hebrews 13:14, WE; Hebrews 11:10, 16).

`What does it mean to you to go to Jesus “outside the camp”? What are the ways we suffer with Him in His shame?`