---
title:  Further Thought
date:  25/03/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“God poured His Holy Spirit on His church. Then the followers of Jesus felt very close to each other. They were tender and kind to each other. They put God first in their lives. They were willing to give up anything for Bible truth. Daily, they showed each other the love that Jesus commanded them to show. By their words and their actions, they worked hard to show this love to other people. The followers of Jesus wanted everyone to know Jesus and His love. . . .

“But slowly things changed. The Christians started to look for faults in each other. They looked at the mistakes other Christians made. They said mean and nasty things about each other. They forgot about the Savior and His love. Then His followers started to follow strict religious rules. They cared more about their ideas than about showing real faith. They were so eager to look for the faults in other people. They failed to see their own mistakes. They stopped loving each other as brothers and sisters in Jesus. The Christians did not know they had lost Jesus or His love. The Christians shut the love of God out of their hearts. They did not see that they were losing happiness and joy. Their lives soon became dark.

“John saw what was happening in the church. So, he told the followers of Jesus that they needed the love of Jesus at all times. The letters John wrote to the church are full of this idea. ‘Dear friends,’ John wrote, ‘we should love each other, because love comes from God. Everyone who loves has become God’s child. And so everyone who loves knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. This is how God showed his love to us: He sent his only Son into the world [to all the people on the earth] to give us life through [by] him. True [real] love is God’s love for us, not our love for God. He sent his Son as the way to take away our sins. That is how much God loved us, dear friends! So we also must love each other.’ [1 John 4:7-11, ERV].”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages, 547, 548, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Yes, God leads each one of us. But why is it important for us also to remember that God leads us as a group? What do I owe the group? What may I expect from the group?`

`In class, make a list of the things that show us that love is strong in the church.`

`How do we love the same as a brother? What causes this love? How does this love change lives for the better? How is this love different from false love?`