---
title:  Miracles Around the Sea of Galilee
date:   27/07/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Mark 4:35–41; Mark 5:1–20; Mark 5:21–24; Mark 5:25–34; Mark 6:1–6; Mark 6:34–52.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “But Jesus did not allow the man to go. He [Jesus] said, ‘Go home to your family and friends. Tell them about all that the Lord did for you. Tell them how the Lord was good [showed mercy] to you’ ” (Mark 5:19, ERV).

Jesus did most of His work for God in Galilee, around the Sea of Galilee. The Sea of Galilee is actually a very big lake. The lake is almost 13 miles long (21 kilometers) and 8 miles wide (13 kilometers). The Sea of Galilee is the biggest lake in the area. Many people lived nearby and made their living from working on the lake.

Mark 4 ends with the story about the trip that Jesus and His followers take across the Sea of Galilee. A storm starts. Jesus commands the wind and waves to be still. Mark 6 ends with another story about the Sea of Galilee. This time, Jesus walks on the water to His followers in the boat. In between these stories about the lake, Mark tells us about the miracles that Jesus does on land. Mark also tells us about the first time Jesus sent His followers to preach. We will study these stories this week.

These stories show us who Jesus is. Jesus stops a storm. He commands demons to come out of people. He heals a woman who ­touches His clothes. He wakes up a dead girl. He feeds 5,000 people with a little bread and a couple of fish. He walks on top of water. These miracles help His followers to understand more and more that Jesus is the Son of God.