---
title:  Stopping a Storm
date:   28/07/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 4:35–41. What happens in this story? What lessons does this story teach us about Jesus?`

At the beginning of Mark 4, Jesus steps into a boat to teach the crowd on the beach. In Mark 4:10–12, Jesus may have stepped out of the boat again to talk with His followers in private. Jesus taught all day long. So, He was very tired. At the end of the day, the followers take Jesus back into the boat. Jesus falls asleep. Then a storm starts on the lake. The big waves push the boat around. The boat almost sinks when the fol­lowers wake up Jesus. Jesus commands the wind and the waves to stop. The whole lake becomes very calm right away. For sure, the followers are very afraid when they see this powerful miracle from God.

`Read Psalm 104:1–9. How does the picture of Yahweh in these verses compare with Jesus when He stops the storm?`

The story in Mark 4:35–41 is an example of a ­“theophany.” A theophany is a time when God or His angels appear to humans. A theophany has five parts: (1) God shows in some special way that He is very powerful. (2) Humans are afraid. (3) The Lord or His angels command the humans not to be afraid. (4) God or His angels give the humans a special message. (5) Humans accept the message. The story in Mark 4:35–41 has four of the five parts of a theophany: (1) Jesus stops the storm. This miracle shows us He is very powerful. (2) The followers are afraid. (3) Jesus asks His followers why they are so afraid. This question is part 3, which is the command not to be afraid. (4) Jesus’ followers wonder about Jesus and ask who He really is. This question is part five of a theophany, which shows how the humans answer the message. The only part missing is a special message or words from God. Why is this part missing? Remember, Jesus keeps who He is a secret. The message is in His behavior. Mark will tell us who Jesus is, but first we must wait for the answer. When the followers ask, “ ‘Who is this? Even the wind and waves obey Him!’ ” (Mark 4:41, NLV), the readers must give the missing answer. Jesus is the Son of God. Jesus is the Lord.

`God is very powerful. How can you learn to trust in His strength in all parts of your life?`