---
title:  The Man Who Was Filled With 5,000 Demons
date:   29/07/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 5:1–20. What does this story teach us about the worldwide war between good and evil? Also, what does this story teach us about Jesus? How much power does Jesus have?`

In Mark 5:1–20, we read the story about the man who was filled with 5,000 demons. This story is so sad it breaks your heart. The man lived all alone in hills where the graves were located. The man screamed day and night. He cut himself with sharp stones. “No one was strong enough to control him” (Mark 5:4, ERV). Then the man met Jesus.

Mark tells us what the man did. “When he saw Jesus a long way off, he ran to him. He fell on his knees in front of him” (Mark 5:6, NIrV). The words “fell on his knees” come from the Greek word “_proskyneō_.” In the Greek language, “_proskyneō_” means “to worship.” This word shows us that this man understood that Jesus was Someone who could help him. But when the man tried to talk, the demons inside him took control. The demons shouted at Jesus. Jesus heard the man’s cry for help above the demons’ shouts. The demons asked Jesus for permis­sion to enter a herd of pigs. There were about 2,000 pigs in the herd. Jesus allowed the demons to enter the pigs. Then the whole herd ran down the hillside and into the sea. All 2,000 pigs drowned in the water. The loss of the pigs caused the owners to lose a lot of money.

The amazing thing is that the demons knew who Jesus was. They also knew they were powerless against Him. That’s why the demons asked Jesus again (Mark 5:10, 12) to let them enter the pigs. So, the demons knew Jesus was more powerful than all 5,000 demons together!

The story is filled with things that made a person dirty in Bible times. Moses talked about the things that made a person dirty. Graves and dead bodies were not clean (Numbers 19:11, 16). Bleeding made a person not clean (Leviticus 15). Pigs were not clean (Leviticus 11:7).

The story also shows us the war between good and evil. Jesus commands the demons to leave. The demons kill the pigs. The townspeople ask Jesus to leave. But Jesus sends the healed man back to the city as His witness. So, the man goes back to tell other people what Jesus did for him. In some ways, this man was the last person we’d expect to become a ­worker for God. But the healed man had an amazing story to tell.