---
title:  A Dead Girl Lives Again
date:   30/07/2024
---

`Read Mark 5:21–24. What do you learn about Jairus in these verses?`

Jairus was a spiritual leader. Most of the Jewish spiritual leaders weren’t friends with Jesus (read Mark 1:22; Mark 3:2, 6; Luke 13:14). But Jairus was in need. He falls on his knees in front of Jesus. Jairus’s daughter is dying. Jairus asks for Jesus’ help. Jesus goes with the worried father to his house.

`Read the story in Mark 5:25–34. What happens on the way to Jairus’s house?`

A woman appears in the middle of the story about Jairus while he is on his way with Jesus to his house. The woman has suffered for 12 years. This story is the second Sandwich Story in Mark (read Mark 3:20–35; review lesson 3). Remember, a Sandwich Story is a type of storytelling where a writer starts telling a story and then begins telling another one in the middle of the first story. The writer finishes telling the first story after the second story is finished. In these two stories, Jairus and the suf­fering woman come to Jesus for help.

The woman comes behind Jesus and touches His clothes. Right away, she is healed. Jesus stops and asks, “ ‘Who touched my clothes?’ ” (Mark 5:30, ERV). The woman who was sick is now healthy. But she is afraid that Jesus will be angry with her because she touched Him. Jesus is not angry at the woman. He asks the question because He wants to heal more than her body. Jesus wants to heal her spirit, too.

After Jesus heals the woman, Mark continues Jairus’s story (read Mark 5:35–43). Jesus allowed no one else to go with Him and the girl’s parents except Peter, James, and John. Jesus says that the girl is not dead but asleep. The people who came to cry for the dead girl laugh at Jesus. Jesus tells all these people to leave the house. Then Jesus goes into the dead girl’s room. Jesus takes her hand and says, “ ‘Talitha, koum!’ ” (This means “Little girl, I tell you to stand up!”) Really, the word “talitha” means “lamb.” Parents called their children “talitha” to show them how much they loved them. Then Jesus commands the parents not to tell anyone that He brought their daughter back to life. But as we shall see, who Jesus is cannot stay hidden or secret.