---
title:  Rejected and Accepted
date:   31/07/2024
---

`Read Mark 6:1–6. Why did the people from Jesus’ hometown of Nazareth reject Him?`

Often when a person from a small town becomes popular or famous, people back home get excited. But the people in Nazareth were not happy about Jesus. The people in Nazareth were surprised and upset at Jesus’ success. They had a hard time accepting His change from being a carpenter to a teacher and ­healer. Jesus did most of His miracles in Capernaum, and not in Nazareth (read Luke 4:23). So, some of the people in Nazareth may have been jealous or angry about that. On top of everything else, Jesus already had a disagreement with His family (Mark 3:31–35), as we saw in lesson 3.

`Compare the work of the Twelve Followers with the death of John the Baptist (Mark 6:7–30). Talk in class about how different these two things are.`

In Mark 6:7–30, we read about the third Sandwich Story (see yesterday’s study and lesson 3 for more information). The Twelve take the message of Jesus everywhere while John is in prison and no longer allowed to preach. Jesus tells His followers not to take too many supplies with them on their journey. Jesus tells them to depend on other people for support. This advice makes Jesus’ followers depend on the people they serve. When they must depend on other people for help, Jesus’ followers become friends with the people who need to hear their message.

John the Baptist is not friends with King Herod or his family. Mark tells us about John’s terrible death. Herodias’s daughter dances for Herod. She asks him for John the Baptist’s head on a dish. John is killed at the same time that the Twelve Followers of Jesus announce the Good News. John’s death shows us Jesus’ death in the near future (Mark 15 and 16). After John is killed and buried, people report that John wakes up from the dead (Mark 6:29, 14–16).

`Did anyone reject you the way Jesus was rejected? Did you suffer something that was hard for you to understand? What did you learn from these experiences that can help you in the future when something terrible happens again?`