---
title:  The Savior No One Expected
date:   01/08/2024
---

`Read Mark 6:34–52. What problem did Jesus and His followers have? How did they solve the problem?`

After the followers come back from preaching, they go with Jesus to rest in a quiet place beside the Sea of Galilee. But a large crowd of 5,000 people arrives at the place before they get there. Jesus sees that the people are the same as sheep who have no shepherd. So, He teaches them the whole day.

In the evening, Jesus’ followers tell Him to send the crowd away to find food. But Jesus tells His followers to feed the crowd. Read the conversation between Jesus and His followers in Mark 6:35–38. This conversation shows us that the followers think about how to solve the problem without God’s help. But Jesus does a miracle to solve the problem. Jesus uses five loaves of bread and two fish to feed the big crowd.

This story helps us to understand the false ideas that the Jews had about the Savior. The Jews expected the Savior to make Israel free from the Romans. They believed that this freedom from Rome would cause peace. If the Romans heard that 5,000 men were meeting in the desert, they might think Jesus was trying to build an army to fight against Roman control (compare with John 6:14, 15; Acts 21:38).

Jesus doesn’t do what anyone expects the Savior to do. He doesn’t lead the crowd in a fight against Rome. He sends His followers away and tells the crowd to go home. Then Jesus goes to a mountain to pray.

The Jews expected the Savior to make Israel free from Rome. But Jesus came to make His people free from sin. That’s why Jesus walks on water. When Jesus walks on water, He shows His followers that He is the Lord who is in control of all nature. But Jesus didn’t come to control the earth at that time. He came to give His life as an offering for many people (Mark 10:45).

`The Jews had a false understanding of Jesus’ first coming. How does this story teach us that we must have a correct understanding of special time messages in the Bible? Why is the correct understanding so important?`