---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   02/08/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘Peace, Be Still,’ ” and “The Touch of Faith,” pages 333–348, in _The Desire of Ages_.

“God is training His people. Their lives will show that they follow Him in every way. The people who follow God must have personal experience in learning about God and His plan for their lives. We must hear God talk to our hearts. We must wait for God to talk with us. When we are quiet, we will hear His voice speaking to us. God says to us, ‘Be still and know that I am God.’ Psalm 46:10 [ICB]. When we know who God is, we will find real rest. This knowledge will get us ready to do God’s work. Everywhere around us, people are busy and in a hurry. They are weary with the many things they must do. But when we find rest in God, we will feel new energy. The light and peace from heaven will fill our hearts. Our lives will show other people that God is in control of us. This light and peace will touch people’s hearts.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 363, adapted.

“Some people wondered why Jesus didn’t give health, strength, and riches to all His people. They saw the mira­cles and wonderful works He did. So, why didn’t Jesus make His people free from their enemies and give them honor and power? Didn’t Jesus say that God sent Him to this earth? So, why did Jesus refuse to be crowned the King of Israel? The people couldn’t understand Jesus. He was a mystery to them. When He refused to be made king, the people misunderstood Him. Many people thought that He refused to be king because He doubted what He was sent to do and who He was. So, the people let doubt into their hearts. Satan caused the people to misunderstand Jesus and to reject Him.”—_The Desire of Ages_, page 385, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What if someone asks you, “What did Jesus make you free from?” How will you answer?`

`Why does God sometimes allow a good person to be put in prison and die, the same as John the Baptist? What hope does God give us when things are difficult to understand?`