---
title: Nehemiah
date: 05/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week’s lesson
Nehemiah 1:1–4; Nehemiah 1:5–11; Nehemiah 2:1–8; Nehemiah 2:9, 10; Nehemiah 2:11–20.

> <p>Memory verse</p> 
> “When I heard this about the people of Jerusalem and about the wall, I sat down and cried. I was very sad. I fasted and prayed to the God of heaven for several days. Then I prayed this prayer: ‘Lord, God of heaven, you are the great [mighty] and powerful God. You are the God who keeps his agreement of love with people who love you and obey your commands’ ” (Nehemiah 1:4, 5, ERV).

**LAST WEEK**, we learned about two groups of Jews who go back to Judah. But there is one more group of Jews that God gets ready to send back. God gives this group a special job. The 1st two groups go back to build again Jerusalem and to finish building the temple. But leaders from the countries around Jerusalem try to stop God’s people from finishing their work. God’s people get scared and stop building. The leaders from nearby countries do not want the Israelites to build the city and its walls. These leaders are afraid that the Israelites will become a powerful country again (Ezra 4:6–24). So, these evil leaders want to stop Israel. But God never leaves His people when they are in trouble. He always will help His people do the work He gives them.

God chooses another man to carry out His plan. This man is named Nehemiah. This week, we will learn about Nehemiah and the work God gives him to do. 

_God never leaves His people when they are in trouble._