---
title: 'Nehemiah Gets Some Bad News'
date: 06/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The book of Nehemiah starts in the same way that the book of Daniel does (read Daniel 1:1, 2). It starts with bad news. Yes, many people go back to Judah. But things are not going very well for God’s people there.

`Read Nehemiah 1:1–4. Why is Nehemiah so upset? What does he do when he gets the bad news?`

Some Jews come to Shushan. Shushan was one of the top centers in the Persian Kingdom. Nehemiah works in Shushan in the royal palace. He is one of the king’s cupbearers. A cupbearer tastes the king’s drinks before the king drinks them. The cupbearer makes sure these drinks are safe. The Jews who come to Shushan were taken as prisoners many years earlier. One of the Jews is named Hanani. Hanani and Nehemiah talk. Their talk happens sometime between mid-November and mid-December of 445 b.c. That is 13 years after Ezra goes back to Jerusalem. Hanani tells Nehemiah that people in Jerusalem are not doing well. The people are not able to build the city. Neighbors from countries near Jerusalem destroyed the city walls.

Nehemiah must have heard the bad news about how the Samaritans destroyed the city walls. But now Nehemiah knows the story is true. To make things worse, King Artaxerxes himself stops the building because some leaders complained to the king about the Jews (Ezra 4).

Yes, God’s people finish building the temple. But the people do not use the temple to worship God at all. Why not? Because the people who work in the temple are afraid to live in Jerusalem. That news makes Nehemiah sad. The reason the Jews went back home is so they can give glory to God. But now they are afraid to live in their city. So, no one is taking care of God’s house. God’s people are too afraid of the leaders near Judah. 

What does Nehemiah do? Does he complain about the Jews? Does he blame them because they do not trust God and have no faith? No! He turns to God. He gets on his knees and prays. He also fasts or eats no food for a few days.

`When Nehemiah gets bad news, he cries at first. Then he fasts and prays. What does his example show us that we must do when there is trouble in our lives?`

_A cupbearer tastes the king’s drinks before the king drinks them. A cupbearer makes sure these drinks are safe._