---
title:  NEHEMIAH’S PRAYER
date:   07/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah’s prayer in Nehemiah 1:5–11. What are the different parts of his prayer? Why does Nehemiah include himself in his prayer as part of the group who is guilty?`

The Seven Parts of Nehemiah’s Prayer:
1.	God, You are wonderful. You show mercy (Nehemiah 1:5).
2.	Hear me, God (Nehemiah 1:6).
3.	Nehemiah confesses his and his people’s sins (Nehemiah 1:6, 7).
4.	Remember Your promises, God (Nehemiah 1:8, 9).
5.	You have saved us (Nehemiah 1:10).
6.	Hear me, God (Nehemiah 1:11).
7.	God, please bless us and show us mercy (Nehemiah 1:11).

Nehemiah’s prayer is beautiful. It shows us that God is wonderful. It shows us that Nehemiah knows that he and his people are sinners. The prayer ends with Nehemiah’s cry to God for help. Nehemiah’s prayer is almost the same as Daniel’s prayer in Daniel 9. Is it possible that Nehemiah knows about Daniel’s prayer? Yes, it is. Do you see that Nehemiah does not start his prayer with a cry for help? First, he says that God is wonderful and mighty. Then Nehemiah says that God always keeps His Special Agreement, or Covenant, with His people. God shows mercy to the people who love Him. 

Nehemiah’s prayer has a special pattern or style. The center of his prayer is Nehemiah 1:8. In this verse, Nehemiah asks God to remember His promises. Yes, God divides His people when they disobey Him. But God also promises to bring His people back home. Then God will make everything new. Nehemiah tells God that His people are turning back to Him. So, now it is time for God to keep His promises. Nehemiah is not afraid to ask God to remember His promises to His people. Of course, God always remembers His promises. But it also makes Him happy when we ask Him to keep them. God wants us to believe Him and ask Him to keep His promises to us. When we ask God to keep His promises, our faith grows stronger. 

`What are some of God’s promises that you can ask Him for right now? Why is it important never to stop asking God to keep His promises?`

_When we ask God to keep His promises, our faith grows stronger._