---
title: 'Nehemiah Talks To The King'
date: 08/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Nehemiah 1:11 says that Nehemiah is the king’s cupbearer. As we saw, a cupbearer tastes the king’s drinks before the king drinks them. We may not think this job is very important. But many cupbearers had a lot of power. That is because they stay very close to the king. Cupbearers tasted the king’s drinks to make sure they were safe to drink. A writer named Herodotus tells us that Persians honored cupbearers. In Persia, cupbearers were very important leaders. The cupbearer to King Esarhaddon of Assyria also was the top leader in that kingdom. So, we can see that Nehemiah has a top job in the Persian Kingdom. Nehemiah’s job puts him very close to the king. So, Nehemiah asks God to give him a chance to tell the king about what is happening in Judah. 

`Read Nehemiah 2:1–8. What do these verses tell us happens when Nehemiah prays and fasts? Fasting, as we read, is a choice someone makes to stop eating for a few days.`

Nehemiah’s prayer is answered in the month of Nisan. Nisan is the same as our month April. The year is 444 b.c. Four months have passed since Hanani and the Jews told Nehemiah the bad news about Jerusalem. For four months, Nehemiah prays and fasts. Every day Nehemiah must have thought that God did not hear him. But we must remember that God always answers our prayers at the right time. God gets the king ready to hear Nehemiah. Then the king gives Nehemiah all the help he needs.

God helps Nehemiah talk to the Persian king, Artaxerxes the 1st. Artaxerxes makes Nehemiah a governor over Judah. The Bible also says the queen is at this meeting. What does that tell us? We know that it was not usual for the queen to attend big feasts. So, it is possible that Nehemiah’s meeting with the king happens during a private dinner. Nehemiah does not talk about the problems in Jerusalem first. Nehemiah starts by telling the king about why he is sad. Later, Nehemiah tells the king about Jerusalem. By that time, Nehemiah wins the king’s favor. Then Nehemiah is ready to tell the king about Jerusalem.

_God always answers our prayers at the right time._