---
title:  THE KING SENDS NEHEMIAH HOME
date:   09/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The king gives Nehemiah letters to take to Sanballat the Horonite and to Tobiah the Ammonite. Sanballat and Tobiah are two governors who live in the land across the River. The king’s letters tell Sanballat and Tobiah to let Nehemiah travel safely across their land to his country. Then the king gives an order to Asaph. Asaph is in charge of the king’s forest. The king tells Asaph to give Nehemiah all the wood he needs to build the city, walls, and temple gates.

`Read Nehemiah 2:9, 10. These verses tell us about the attacks that will happen soon to Nehemiah and the Jews. Who will attack Nehemiah and the Jews? In what ways will these leaders attack God’s servant and His people?`

Nehemiah arrives in Jerusalem sometime in the last six months of the year 444 b.c. King Artaxerxes’s letters to the two governors cause problems in Judah. Sanballat and Tobiah try to stop Nehemiah even before he does anything! Tobiah is a Jewish name. It means “The Lord is good.” (Tobiah’s son Jehohanan also has a Jewish name. It means “The Lord shows mercy.”) Tobiah serves as a governor of Ammon to the east of the land of Judah. Sanballat is the governor of Samaria to the north. Geshem the Arab (Nehemiah 2:18, 19) controls the land to the south. Geshem also controls the lands of Edom and Moab. So, Jerusalem has enemies on every side! The leaders of the countries around Jerusalem want nothing to do with Nehemiah. Why? Because he shows mercy to the poor and other people that these evil leaders hurt.

“Nehemiah comes to Jerusalem with the king’s soldiers. The king sends the soldiers to protect Nehemiah. The governors get jealous when they see Nehemiah arrive with all those soldiers. The soldiers are a sign of the king’s favor. They show the governors that the king sends Nehemiah to do important work. The governors hate the Jews. They often hurt them and are mean to them. The worst bullies are Sanballat the Horonite, Tobiah the Ammonite, and Geshem the Arabian. From the start, these three leaders watch everything Nehemiah does. They try to find fault with his work and his actions. These men use all their power to try to stop Nehemiah’s plans and his work.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 635, adapted.

_“The worst bullies are Sanballat the Horonite, Tobiah the Ammonite, and Geshem the Arabian. . . . These men use all their power to . . . stop Nehemiah’s plans and his work.”_