---
title:  NEHEMIAH GETS READY FOR HIS WORK 
date:   10/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Clearly, we can see that the Lord gives Nehemiah his work. God will give Nehemiah everything he needs to do it. Nehemiah trusts in God’s promises. Nehemiah knows God will help him. He also knows that God gave him his work to do. So, he goes to work. But he takes no chances. He moves ahead carefully in his work. He prays about everything.

`Nehemiah 2:11–20 shows us the things Nehemiah does to get ready to rebuild the city’s wall. What things does Nehemiah do?`

We can learn a lot about how to be a good leader from what Nehemiah does to get ready. 

**Lesson #1**: Nehemiah does not tell anyone about his plans. He says, “I had not said anything to anyone about what my God had put on my heart to do for Jerusalem” (Nehemiah 2:12, ERV). This verse shows us something else important. As we clearly see, Nehemiah does not tell his plans to the enemy. But Nehemiah also does not tell the Jewish leaders. He goes out at night with a few men. They visit the city at night to see the work that needs to be done. 

**Lesson #2**: Before Nehemiah takes any action, he plans all the work that needs to be done.

**Lesson #3**: Now Nehemiah is ready to talk about his plans. First, he tells the leaders of God’s people about everything God has done so far to lead him. Next, Nehemiah adds the king’s words and promise to help. Then a miracle happens. The Jews decide to support Nehemiah’s decision to rebuild. Yes, the leaders from beyond the river will try to stop them. But the Jews will go forward anyway. God gets the king ready to help Nehemiah. Now God shows Nehemiah that He helps the people get ready too. The leaders of God’s people agree to help Nehemiah with all their hearts. They answer him with courage and strength.

`Read Nehemiah 2:19, 20. What do these verses tell us about Nehemiah’s faith?`

Nehemiah is not afraid to include God in everything he says and does. Nehemiah gives God glory, even when people laugh at him or do not believe in God at all.

_Nehemiah goes out at night with a few men. They look at the city to see the work that needs to be done._