---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   11/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

Read “A Man of Opportunity,” pages 628–634, in Prophets and Kings.
Nehemiah is a man of prayer. “Nehemiah often cries to God for his people. But now as Nehemiah prays, a holy plan comes into his thoughts. He decides that he will build again the walls of Jerusalem. He will help make Israel a strong country again. But first, he must get the king’s help. Then, Nehemiah must get the necessary equipment and building supplies. So, Nehemiah asks the Lord to bless him. Nehemiah prays that God will cause the king to help him. Then Nehemiah can carry out God’s plans. Nehemiah prays, ‘ “Help me today as I ask the king for help. Make him pleased with me so that he will be kind and give me what I ask for.” ’ [Nehemiah 1:11, ERV]. Nehemiah waits four months for God to answer his prayer. Then at the right time, God gives him a chance to ask the king for help.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 629, 630, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. The Bible shows us that God’s people have difficult experiences as they work for Him. Can you find an example in the Bible of a servant of God who does not have any hard times or bad experiences? What does your answer tell you about why we should not get upset about trouble or attacks while we are doing God’s work?`

`2. Read Nehemiah 2:18. What does this verse tell us about our personal stories about God? How powerful are they? Why is it important that the Jewish leaders agree to help Nehemiah and support his work?`

`3. Ezra and Nehemiah can do nothing without the king’s help. These men of God work with leaders who do not believe in God. How can we, as a church, work well with the leaders in our community? At the same time, why must we be very careful when we do work with them?`

`4. Read Nehemiah’s prayer (Nehemiah 1:1–11) in class. What does this prayer teach you that helps you grow closer to God? What does this prayer teach you about trusting God’s promises? What does it teach you about confessing your sins and giving your life fully to God?`

_“Nehemiah was a man of prayer.”_