---
title:  No Condemnation and Never-failing Love
date:  13/02/2021
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Romans 8

No Condemnation and Never-failing Love

Romans 8 is one of the high points of Scripture. It practically begs us to bask in the goodness of God. It begins with the assurance that there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ (Romans 8:1), and it ends with the promise that nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ (Romans 8:35–39). Wow! No condemnation. No separation. Bask. In. This.

Of course, a lot of life happens between God’s promise of no condemnation and His assurance of no separation from His love. We learn to live lives that fulfill God’s law as we are empowered by the Spirit (Romans 8:4). God’s Spirit begins to give life to the body of death that was so frustrating in the previous chapter (Romans 7:24; Romans 8:10, 11). The same Spirit helps us resolve the tension between our desire to do good and the weakness of our sinful flesh by helping us put to death the deeds of the body (Romans 8:13). All the while, we live in the joyful assurance that we are children of God and that we have an everlasting inheritance (Romans 8:14–17). When we suffer, we trust that God will work all things together for good (Romans 8:28).

We also groan, and when we groan, we don’t groan alone. We groan with all creation as we wait for the time when all creation will be liberated from the bondage of decay to the glorious liberty of God’s children (Romans 8:19–23). More than that, the Spirit groans along with us, helping us in our great need (Romans 8:26).

#### inScribe

Write out Romans 8 from the Bible translation of your choice. If you are pressed for time, write out Romans 8:31–39. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

``