---
title:  More Than Nothing
date:  15/02/2021
---

#### inTerpret

The Christian worldview is fundamentally hopeful. Even though the fall unleashed death and unspeakable tragedy upon our world, everything that was lost will be restored with interest. For example, everything Job lost was restored double (Job 42:10). The gift of grace is “much more” than the terrible consequences of the fall (Romans 5:9, 15, 17). Ultimately, what God restores will be even better than what was originally planned. We see this in the creation of the new heavens and earth (Revelation 21, 22). Through the fall, Eden was lost, but what is promised is much more than Eden. It is a garden city filled with the glory of God and the glory of the nations (Revelation 21:11, 26).

In contrast, the worldview of secularism and naturalism is fundamentally hopeless. In that view, we came from nothing and become nothing. Humanity is nothing more than the product of evolutionary biological processes, which are themselves governed by the laws of chemistry and physics. In a naturalistic worldview, we are nothing more than biological machines that respond to the stimuli of the environment. All love, morality, purpose, and meaning are merely illusions created by biological processes. If humanity continues to exist long enough, the sun will eventually cool along with the rest of the universe, and all life will cease to exist.

The Christian worldview is so filled with hope that the sufferings of this life are not even worthy of being compared with the glory that will be revealed in us (Romans 8:18). Our future is so indescribably beautiful that any suffering we now face is infinitesimally small by comparison.

The Christian hope can sustain us in great suffering because it is forward looking. Hope takes our eyes off the painful present and fixes them upon a peaceful future. As believers, we are saved in hope. We look forward to the restoration of all creation, including our bodies (Romans 8:19–23). This is our hope-filled future.

The fascinating thing about hope is that people don’t hope for what they now possess (Romans 8:24). Hope is about anticipation. Hope is about waiting. Hope is about patience. As believers, we wait patiently in hope and assurance, because the same God who invited us to have faith also justified us (Romans 8:30). This God has promised that one day He will glorify us (Romans 8:30). In the meantime, He has predestined us to become like His Son Jesus (Romans 8:29).

``