---
title:  'God’s Love: The Final Answer'
date:  17/02/2021
---

#### inVite

When bad things happen to us or those we love, it is easy to wonder if God is upset with us. It is easy to think that God must be angry or that He doesn’t love and care for us. The good news is that God finally and fully answered these concerns through the coming of Jesus. Through Jesus, God is shouting that He is on our side and that no one can be against us (Romans 8:31).

No matter what we go through, we can be confident that God is on our side because He gave us His best gift when He gave us His Son. And if He already gave us His best gift, why would He not freely give us all things (Romans 8:32)? Furthermore, we can be sure that God is on our side because He has justified us. If God has justified us, can any charge against us stick? Of course not! He is the highest court in the land. If He has issued a verdict of justification, no other court can reverse His decision (Romans 8:33). He is on our side!

The truth is that God wasn’t just on our side in the past when He gave Jesus to die for our sins. God is on our side right now. The intercession of Jesus is evidence of this. Jesus is representing us in the presence of the Father. His ongoing presence and His death and resurrection ensure that we won’t be condemned (Romans 8:34).

God is on our side!

Does our suffering somehow indicate that God has abandoned us? No. Never! It doesn’t matter what we go through. No tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, peril, or sword is evidence that God has removed His love from us (Romans 8:35). The life, death, resurrection, and intercession of Jesus stand as monuments of God’s never-failing love for us. Even if it feels as though we are sheep for the slaughter, we are still loved (Romans 8:36).

Nothing in the present and nothing in the future can change the fact of God’s love in Christ. Not even death or any heavenly or earthly power is evidence that God has changed His mind about His love for us (Romans 8:38). Nothing can pry us from the love of God in Christ (Romans 8:39). Nothing.

So when we suffer and when we hurt, we can take comfort in God’s love and His promise to work all things together for the good of those who love Him (Romans 8:28).

``