---
title:  Educating on Education
date:  31/10/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 14:6–12

**Educating on Education**

The late 1800s and early 1900s were critical moments in the development of the identity of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. Ellen White began to emphasize the topic of righteousness by faith, especially in the book, Desire of Ages. Parallel to this critical period in Adventist theology was also the development of an Adventist philosophy of education.  The first collection of Ellen White’s articles on Christian education was published in 1886, entitled “Selections From the Testimonies Concerning the Subject of Education.” That work was expanded in the 1890s. Her classic work on the topic, Education, came out in 1903, while Counsels to Parents, Teachers and Students was issued in 1913. A collection of seventy-four Ellen White articles on education, arranged chronologically from 1872 to 1915, is reprinted in Fundamentals of Christian Education, published in 1923.

What does all of this mean? For us as Seventh-day Adventists, education is as much a part of our identity as our theology. Education is as important to Adventist theology as redemption, because “in the highest sense the work of education and the work of redemption are one, for in education, as in redemption, ‘other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ’ ” (Education, 30).

This week, the emphasis of our study will be on the unique elements of Adventist theology and philosophy of education by looking at a passage in Scripture that deals with calling and is specifically important to the Seventh-day Adventist Church itself.

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 14:6–12 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``