---
title:  The Bread and Water of Life
date:   09/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 15:22–27; Exodus 16:1–36; Exodus 17:1–7; Exodus 18:1–27; 1 Corinthians 10:11.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Then the Lord said to Moses, ‘How long will all you people refuse to obey my commands and teachings? Look, the Lord has made the Sabbath a day of rest for all of you. So on the sixth day he will give you enough food for two days. But on the Sabbath each of you must stay where you are. Do not leave your house.’ So the people rested on the Sabbath” (Exodus 16:28–30, ICB).

After the Israelites left Egypt, they went on a journey to the Promised Land. The Israelites didn’t know about the dangers and problems that lay ahead of them. They needed to learn many new lessons. Yes, the Lord would lead them and care for them. Yes, the Lord wanted to help them grow. But the people must learn self-control and obedience. They needed to learn to trust the Lord.

The people must follow Moses if they want to win. So, the people need to work together as a community. They must help each other. So much of their spiritual growth depended on how they solved their problems and how they obeyed Moses.

The Chinese people have a famous saying: “The journey of 1,000 miles starts with the first step.” This saying was true about the Israelites. They needed to trust the Lord with every footstep they took. Sad to say, as we will see, the Israelites didn’t learn their lessons so easily.