---
title:  Bitter Waters
date:   10/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Bible stories, different people have different parts, good or bad. So, we need to pay careful attention to places, scenes, plans, time, and enemies. But the most important part in any story is the ending and the lessons learned. The same is true with Bible stories.

The stories about Israel’s desert journey show us that God solves His people’s problems. God also brings His people peace. But God’s work is made difficult because His people have so little faith. The people complain and disobey God. So, they have many unnecessary troubles, trials, and disasters. They cause many of their own problems because they refuse to stop sinning and trust in God.

`After the Israelites cross the Red Sea, what miracle does God do for them first? What happens right before God does this miracle? Read Exodus 15:22–27 for the answers.`

The first test of Israel’s faith is about their need for water. This need is no surprise. The desert is hot and dry. After three days of traveling, the people finally find water. But they can’t drink the water because it is “marah.” The word “marah” in the Hebrew language means “bitter.” Because the water tastes bitter, Israel has trouble believing that God cares for them. But God shows love and forgiveness for His people and does a miracle. The first miracle for the Israelites is done with a piece of wood. Of course, the Lord, and not the wood, makes the water sweet so that the people can drink it. The people needed to learn two important lessons: (1) They needed to be patient and wait for the Lord’s help. (2) They needed to learn that God cooperates with people to get things done.

But the Israelites forgot the many mighty miracles that God did for them. These miracles were the same mighty acts that the Israelites praised God for a short while ago when they sang, “ ‘Lord, who among the gods is like [the same as] you? Who is like you? You are majestic [royal] and holy. Your glory fills me with wonder. You do amazing things’ ” (Exodus 15:11, NIrV).

Even after the Israelites complain, God promises that He will not give them any of the diseases that made the Egyptians sick (Exodus 15:26). God will protect His people. The people can enjoy this promise only if they obey God.