---
title:  Birds And Manna
date:   11/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Sad to say, the people often forgot that God helped them in the past. God always gave them answers to their problems. But the people let their problems cause them to forget what God did for them and his promise of a wonderful future. God’s people today often suffer from the same problem.

`What caused the israelites to complain? what happened next? read exodus 16:1–36 for the answers.`

Sin in the bible is often connected with food. In the garden of Eden, the fall happened because Adam and Eve ate from the forbidden tree (Genesis 2:16, 17; Genesis 3:1–6). When Jesus was in the desert, satan tried to get him to sin with food (Matthew 4:3). Esau lost his special blessings as the oldest son because of his hunger for food (Genesis 25:29–34). So often Israel’s sins were connected to food and drink! No wonder Moses told the Israelites: “ ‘Man doesn’t live only on bread. He also lives on every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord’ ” (Deuteronomy 8:3, NIrV).

God gave the Israelites manna during their 40-year journey in the desert. Manna, of course, is bread from heaven. God used the manna to teach his people that he made the skies and the earth. God also is the giver of every good thing. God used the manna to teach his people to keep the seventh-day Sabbath.

Each week, four miracles happened: (1) For six days, God gave his people the manna they needed for the day. (2) On Fridays, God gave his people two times as much manna. (3) The manna didn’t spoil from friday to Sabbath. (4) No manna fell on Sabbath. God did these four miracles each week so the people would remember the Sabbath day and celebrate God’s love on that day. God said, “ ‘I have given you the Sabbath day’ ” (Exodus 16:29, NIrV).

`People like to eat. God made us to enjoy food and eating. The many different types of food that grow from trees and in the dirt show us that God wants us to eat. God also wants us to like what we eat. At the same time, we must be careful. How can we use this wonderful gift of enjoying food to hurt ourselves?`