---
title:  Water From The Rock
date:   12/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When you are in the desert, you need plenty of water. God took care of Israel’s water problem. The people complained, didn’t trust God, and tested Him. Because the people didn’t believe, they wanted to go back to Egypt!

`Read the story in Exodus 17:1–7. What lesson should the people have learned from what happened?`

Moses named the place “Massah.” “Massah” means “a testing.” Moses also gave the place another name: “Meribah,” which suggests “quarreling.” The Israelites didn’t trust in the Lord. But the Lord gave the Israelites water anyway. These two names should have helped the Israelites not to test God and not to argue with Him (Hebrews 3:7, 8, 15). The people had lots of proof of God’s help and power. But they doubted that God was with them.

“Moses hit the stone. But the Son of God caused the life-giving water to flow from the stone. The Son of God stood beside Moses. A cloud hid the Son of God. Moses and the leaders of Israel saw the Lord’s glory. The people who stood far away also saw it, too. If the Lord removed the cloud that covered His glory, His shining brightness would have killed everyone.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 298, adapted.

Water is a symbol for life. Without water, there is no life. Every cell in our body needs water. Our bodies are 60% water. A part of our bones are also made of water. So, when God gave the Israelites water in the desert, He showed them that He cared for their needs. For sure, the people could trust Him. But again, they needed to obey Him.

Many hundreds of years later, Paul tells his readers that the experience of the Israelites in the desert was very special. Jesus Himself led His people. He also gave them water (Psalm 78:15, 16). Jesus took care of their other needs, too. He took care of their bodies and spirits. Paul announced: “That Rock [stone] was Christ” (1 Corinthians 10:4, WE). Jesus was the Giver of life on earth and everlasting life in heaven. Just as a stone is firm and strong, God firmly led His people. We can count on Jesus because He always keeps His promises.

`What are some things that you need to trust God with? How can you learn to wait for Him to act in His time?`