---
title:  Jethro
date:   13/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jethro visited Moses. Jethro, who is also named Reuel (Exodus 2:18), was Moses’ father-in-law. Jethro brought with him Moses’ wife, Zipporah, and their two sons, Gershom and Eliezer. When Moses heard that his family was coming to see him, he went out to welcome them.

`Read Exodus 18:1–27. What important things in the history of Israel happened in these verses?`

Jethro came because he heard about the amazing things God did for Israel. “Moses told Jethro everything the Lord had done for the Israelites. He told what the Lord did to Pharaoh [king of Egypt] and the people of Egypt. He told about all the problems they had along the way. And he told his father-in-law how the Lord saved the Israelites every time there was trouble” (Exodus 18:8, ERV).

Jethro praised God for everything He did to help His people: “ ‘Praise the Lord! He freed [saved] you from the power of Egypt. He saved you from Pharaoh. Now I know the Lord is greater [more powerful] than all the gods. They [the Egyptians and their gods] thought they were in control, but look what God did!’ ” (Exodus 18:10, 11, ERV).

This story shows us a powerful example of God’s work for His people. When God helped Israel escape Egypt, He showed everyone who He was and what He can do for the people who love and obey Him.

At the same time that Jethro learned about the true God, he offered something of worth to God’s people: wise and helpful advice about leadership. Moses needed to set up a government for Israel. This government must include fair laws and rules. Moses needed men who were good and honest judges. Jethro wisely told Moses to choose men who (1) obeyed God, (2) were dependable, and (3) honest. Moses also should choose good men to be leaders over different groups of people. The biggest groups would include a thousand people. Some of the smaller groups would have a hundred people. Other groups would have only fifty people, and the smallest group would include only ten people. In this way, Moses’ heavy workload would be reduced. Then Moses would have more time to solve Israel’s most difficult problems. Moses accepted Jethro’s wise advice (Exodus 18:24). Moses chose men to help him lead and judge the people (also read Deuteronomy 1:9–18).