---
title:  The Bread And Water Of Life
date:   14/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Why were the Old Testament stories written down? What reason does Paul give? Read 1 Corinthians 10:11 for the answer.`

Paul explains that all the things that happened to the Israelites are examples and warnings for Jesus’ followers. These stories will help us avoid the same troubles the Israelites had. So, that is why we must learn from their examples. This advice is important for us “who are living in the last days [end times] of the world [human history]” (1 Corinthians 10:11, WE). God gives His people the Holy Spirit. The Spirit gives us “a spirit of power and of love and of a good [having no disease or sickness; healthy and strong] mind” (2 Timothy 1:7, NLV). Then God’s people can make correct decisions and follow His teaching. Jesus is the Giver of new life (John 14:6). Only Jesus can help us offer ourselves as “a living and holy gift given to God. . . . Do not act like [the same as] the sinful [evil] people of the world [on this earth]. Let God change your life. First of all, let Him give you a new mind [thoughts and feelings]. Then you will know what God wants you to do. And the things you do will be good and pleasing and perfect” (Romans 12:1, 2, NLV).

Later on, Jesus used the Old Testament stories to teach important lessons. Jesus used the word pictures of manna and water to teach spiritual truths about Himself. Jesus is the same Lord who led His people in the desert.

`Read John 4:7–15 and John 6:31–51. What important Bible truths do these verses teach us?`

The Samaritan woman learned that Jesus offers something that she won’t get anywhere else. The human heart wishes for peace, joy, and happiness that comes from God. So, only God can give us these things (Psalm 42:1, 2).

Later, Jesus says that God, and not Moses, gave His people the manna or bread from heaven. Then Jesus announced: “ ‘I am the bread that gives life’ ” (John 6:35, ERV). Three times Jesus said that He is the Bread that gives life (John 6:35, 41, 48). Jesus gave the Hebrews manna, the bread from heaven. The water from the stone also was Jesus’ gift to His thirsty people in the desert. Only Jesus can satisfy our spiritual thirst and hunger.