---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   15/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “From the Red Sea to Sinai,” pages 291–302, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

Soon after God gave His people water in the desert, Israel met a new danger (read Exodus 17:8–16). The Amalekites attacked them. The Amalekites loved to fight and go to war. “The Amalekites knew about God’s love, mercy, and His power. But the Amalekites didn’t respect God. They fought against His control. The Amalekites made fun of the miracles that Moses did in front of the Egyptians. The Amalekites also made fun of other people for being afraid of the Israelites. The Amalekites made a promise in front of their gods to destroy the Hebrews. The Amalekites promised to not allow one Hebrew to escape alive. The Amalekites bragged that Israel’s God was powerless to stand against them. The Israelites did nothing wrong to the Amalekites. The Israelites didn’t do anything to cause the Amalekites to hate them or want to destroy them. The Amalekites wanted to destroy God’s people because they hated God. They wanted to show they hated God. That’s why the Amalekites wanted to destroy His people. The Amalekites were terrible sinners. Their awful sins came to God’s attention and needed to be punished. In His mercy, God continued to invite the Amalekites to confess their sins and to stop sinning. But when the Amalekite men attacked the tired and helpless Israelites, they went too far in God’s eyes. Their action caused God to destroy them as a people.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 300, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think some more about how Jethro learned about the true God from what God did for His people (Read Exodus 18:8–10.) Do we learn about God in the same way today? If yes, ask yourself and your class: What does my church show other people about God?`

`Some people believe that the Old Testament God is mean and nasty, and Jesus is loving. How does 1 Corinthians 10:4 show us why this belief is wrong?`

`Read again Ellen G. White’s quote above about the Amalekites. They had the chance to learn about God. Compare them with Jethro. What lessons can we learn about why God judged the Amalekites and other people groups that the Israelites met?`