---
title:  Eden and Canaan
date:  23/11/2025
---

`What happened to the Garden of Eden when Adam and Eve sinned? Read Genesis 2:15 and Genesis 3:17–24 for the answer.`

God gave Adam and Eve a beautiful garden home. God filled the Garden of Eden with beauty. The garden gave Adam and Eve plenty of food and water. Adam and Eve met with God in the garden. God was their teacher. The Garden of Eden was the same as a school. The garden taught Adam and Eve about God and His love. The garden also taught Adam and Eve about God’s plan for their lives. When Adam and Eve sinned, they broke their relationship with God. Their sin changed their relationship with the garden home too. Adam and Eve lost their garden home. As punishment, God made Adam and Eve leave the garden. So, Eden is a symbol of the life God meant for Israel to enjoy. The Promised Land will help Israel discover the joys that humans lost in Eden.

`What did Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob think about God’s promise to give them land? Read Genesis 13:14, 15; Genesis 26:3, 24; and Genesis 28:13 for the answer. What promise about land has God made to us? How does this promise give us hope? (Read Hebrews 6:11–15 for the answer.)`

Abraham entered the land that God showed him. Abraham had faith in God’s promise. He believed God would give him and his future children the land someday. Abraham’s children waited for 400 years for God to keep His promise. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob didn’t really own the land. The land belonged to God. The Garden of Eden belonged to God too. Adam and Eve didn’t do anything to buy or own the land. Israel didn’t do anything to earn the Promised Land (Deuteronomy 9:4–6). God gave them the Promised Land as a gift.

Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob lived with hope in God’s promises. God kept His promise to them and gave the land to their future children. As Jesus’ followers, we also have promises. God promises us better things than He gave Israel (Hebrews 8:6). God will keep His promises to us. But first we must “copy the example of those people who continue to trust God. They continue to be patient when trouble happens to them. People like [the same as] that receive [get] what God has promised to his people” (Hebrews 6:12, EASY).