---
title:  The Land As A Gift
date:  24/11/2025
---

`What was the special relationship between God, Israel, and the Promised Land? Read Exodus 3:8; Leviticus 20:22; Leviticus 25:23; Numbers 13:27; Deuteronomy 4:1, 25, 26; Deuteronomy 6:3; and Psalm 24:1 for the answer.`

Land is more than a place to live. Land helps people to know who they are as a people. What you do for a living depends on where you live. Slaves had no land. They belonged nowhere. A slave worked hard for no pay. Someone else collected and enjoyed the pay for the work the slave did. So, owning land was important. When people owned land, they were no longer slaves. That’s why the land was so important to the Israelites after God helped them escape slavery. The land helped them to understand who they were, as God’s people.

God, Israel, and the land had a special relationship. God gave Israel the land as a gift. The Israelites could own the land while they obeyed the Lord and respected the rules of the agreement between them. In other words, Israel couldn’t own the land and have its blessings without God’s blessing.

The land also helped Israel better understand God’s law and His love. Because the Israelites lived in the land, they always remembered that God kept His promises. Without God’s help, Israel wouldn’t be a people, and they wouldn’t have any land. When the Israelites were in Egypt, the Nile River helped give water to their crops. But Canaan was dif­ferent. The Israelites depended on rain for their crops. Only God could control the weather. So, the land helped the Israelites remember all the time that they depended on God for life.

Yes, God gave Israel the land. But God was really the Owner. God is the real Owner of the whole earth (Psalm 24:1). So, He can give the land to Israel or remove it. The same is true for us today. Because God is the Owner of the land, we are all really strangers, pilgrims, or visitors. In other words, we are not the owners of the land. We are only guests on God’s land.

`Read 1 Peter 2:11 and Hebrews 11:9–13 and then answer the questions. What does it mean to you to live as a visitor on this earth? What does it mean to you that your final home will be the earth made new?`