---
title:  Winning The Land
date:  25/11/2025
---

`Yes, the land was a gift from God. But what were some of the things Israel needed to do to win the land and keep it? Read Joshua 13:1–7 for the answer.`

The Israelites lived as slaves for hundreds of years. So, they didn’t have the military skills of the Egyptians to win the land in war. The Egyptians were skilled fighters with trained armies. But even with their big armies, the Egyptians never completely won the land of Canaan. The Egyptians couldn’t break down the walls of the Canaanite cities. Now God tells the Israelites, who were ex-slaves, to win the land that their Egyptian masters couldn’t get full control of! If the Israelites win, they will win only because God helps them. They won’t win because of their own effort.

Joshua 13–21 talks about the land that God gives to the different family groups of Israel. The lists of land tell us who gets what land. The lists also show us the land that Israel must win. The Israelites can safely live in the land God gave them because He owns it. The first half of the book of Joshua shows us how God gave Israel the land. God took the land from the Canaanites and gave it to Israel. The second half of the book tells us how the Israelites settled in the land and made their homes there.

The story of Israel in the Promised Land teaches us about God’s saving mercy. We are the same as Israel because we can’t do anything to earn God’s gift (Ephesians 2:8, 9). We can’t save ourselves. We need the gift of God’s saving mercy. Israel didn’t do anything to earn the land (Deuteronomy 9:5.) In the same way, we can’t earn God’s mercy with our good behavior.

God expected the Israelites to obey Him. They ­needed to obey Him to live in the land He gave them. In the same way, we must obey the Lord to be citizens of God’s kingdom. God gave Israel the land because of His mercy. Because of God’s mercy, we get a wonderful gift too: He will save us. But we can lose this gift, if we aren’t careful.

`What must Christians do today to enjoy the promises God gave them? Read Philippians 2:12 and Hebrews 12:28 for the answer.`