---
title:  "The Year Of Jubilee: A Special Time Of Rest"
date:  26/11/2025
---

The land was very important to God’s people, Israel. God divided the land between the 12 family groups of Israel (Numbers 34:13–18). God divided up the land so that every family group could own part of it. This plan kept the land from belonging to only a few rich and powerful people.

`Why did God ask the Israelites to celebrate the Year of Jubilee or special time of rest? Read Leviticus 25:1–5, 8–13 for the answer.`

In Egypt, the citizens often lost their land. Then they became the slaves of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. God didn’t want that to happen to the Israelites. So, no one outside the family group could own a family’s land. In God’s plan, no one could sell the land. You could rent your land to someone until the time of the next Year of Jubilee. So, if someone needed to sell his land, his family members must try to buy back the land before the Jubilee (Leviticus 25:25).

The gift of the land helps us to see what is in God’s heart. Our Father in heaven wants His children to share with people who don’t have as much as we do. Every seven years, God commanded His people to use their land to feed other people. When we own the land and use it to help other people, we learn to respect them. We learn to be kind to people who are poor and suffering.

God also gave the land to His people to teach them to work hard. God wanted His people to have a new start too.

The Good News about Jesus also gives us a new start. The Good News shows us that, rich or poor, we are all the same in God’s eyes. Every one of us needs God’s mercy.

Sad to say, Israel didn’t honor God’s commands. Hundreds of years later, God finally did what He warned the Israelites He would do. He removed His people from the land that He gave them (2 Chronicles 36:20, 21).

`How do the Sabbath and the rules God gave Israel about buying back the land teach us that we are all the same in God’s eyes? How can the Sabbath help us to say “no” to the evil habit of buying too much?`