---
title:  Getting Back The Land
date:  27/11/2025
---

`Read Jeremiah 24:6; Jeremiah 31:16; Ezekiel 11:17; Ezekiel 28:25; and Ezekiel 37:14, 25. What promise did God make about Israel’s coming back to the Promised Land? How did God keep that promise?`

When the Israelites were carried away to Babylon, they learned an important truth about their relationship with God. Their relationship with God didn’t depend on their living in the Promised Land. God continued to be their God, even while they weren’t in the land. When the Israelites confessed their sins, they looked to the Lord with all their hearts. Then God kept His promise again. He brought His people back to their land. Their coming back to their country showed that God accepted them again.

However, God never promised that the Israelites would continue to live in the land forever if they sinned (Deuteronomy 28:63, 64; Joshua 23:13, 15; 1 Kings 9:7; 2 Kings 17:23; Jeremiah 12:10–12). At the same time, the prophets, God’s special messengers, announced that a future King would come from the family line of David. This future King would give the Israelites back their glory. He would help them to enjoy success as a people again (Isaiah 9:6, 7; Zechariah 9:9, 16). God kept this promise in the life and death of Jesus. Jesus woke up from the dead to show Israel that He was God’s promised Savior.

In the New Testament, we also are told that God kept His promises to Israel when He sent Jesus Christ (2 Corinthians 1:20; Romans 15:8). When we understand this Bible truth, we will see the Promised Land as a symbol of spiritual blessings. God plans to give us these blessings both now (Ephesians 2:6) and in the future.

When we live on the new earth, God will keep His promise of rest. We will live on earth with no more sin and evil. So, as Christians, our hope comes from Jesus’ promise that He will come back. After 1,000 years in heaven, Jesus will start His kingdom on the new earth. When that happens, God will keep all His promises to us about the land.

`Read John 14:1–3; Titus 2:13; and Revelation 21:1–3. What hope do these verses give us? Why does Jesus’ death give us proof that we can trust God to keep all His future promises to us?`