---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  28/11/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Contro­versy Ended,” pages 672–678, in The Great Controversy.

“When we enter the city, we shall be saved. Then we may rejoice that we are saved. But until then, we need to remember what Paul said: ‘So be careful that none of you fails to receive [get] it [God’s promise]’ [Hebrews 4:1, NIrV]. The Israelites knew about the land of Canaan. They sang songs about the land. They rejoiced at the promise that they would enter the land. But their knowledge, songs, and joy didn’t bring them into the Promised Land or its olive gardens. The Israelites needed to have faith in God. They needed to obey Him. They need to do their part. Then God could keep His promise to them to give them the land.”—Ellen G. White, The Youth’s Instructor, February 17, 1898, adapted.

“The Bible has a name for what God promises to give us. The Bible names this gift ‘a country’ (Hebrews 11:14–16, KJV). In this country, Jesus is the same as a Shepherd who leads His flock to the living waters. The tree of life grows new fruit every month here. The leaves of the tree will heal and help God’s people. In this country, many streams flow. The water is clear, the same as glass. Next to the streams, trees shade the paths that God will make for His people to walk on. This country is filled with plains and hills that are very beautiful. Behind them are tall mountains. God’s people have been pilgrims and wanderers for a very long time. Now they will make their homes on the plains. They will live next to the living streams.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 675, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`The Promised Land is a symbol for the wonderful life that Jesus promised us (John 10:10). What does the Promised Land teach us about God’s plan to save us?`

`What does it mean to be a citizen of God’s kingdom? As members of this kingdom, how should we live?`

`As humans, we often feel disappointed when people break their promises to us. Why can you trust God’s promises?`

`How can we make the promises of a new earth real now?`