---
title:  A Lonely Generation
date:   22/03/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 20**

**A Lonely Generation**

In 2018 and 2019, the Barna Group surveyed over fifteen thousand young adults ages 18–35 from twenty-five countries around the world. Of those surveyed, 67 percent indicated they felt that most of the people around them did not deeply care for them, and 68 percent disagreed with the statement, “I often feel someone believes in me.” Two-thirds of young adults globally reported feeling lonely and unappreciated. Many of them indicated they were “anxious about important decisions,” “afraid to fail,” and “uncertain about the future” (“In Review: 3 Key Insights About Young Adults Around the World,” Barna Group, August 24, 2022, www.barna.com/research/reviewing-global-young-adults/).

If only these statistics were just a bunch of numbers. These are people. This is you and me and our friends trying our best to get through life with some level of meaning, purpose, connection, and happiness—all things Jesus came into this world to give us. Jesus doesn’t offer a quick fix. Like a gardener tending their plants, He grows us and helps us make imperceptible progress each day.

Abuse, abandonment, and other evils have caused significant harm and damage to some people’s lives more than others. Some of us have been handed a worse set of circumstances in life. But the good news is that Jesus specializes in saving the most broken people and can take us from victim to victor. In the Gospels, it seems Jesus gravitated toward the most challenging cases. He took extra delight in saving the unlikeliest people. It’s as if when Jesus entered town, He looked for the most helpless and hopeless case in the area. If Jesus could save the most ostracized, “unsavable” citizen of their town, then everyone could be assured that Jesus could save them, too. The same applies for us today; Jesus can save even you and even me.

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

### inScribe

`Write out what stands out to you from John 20 using the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 11–17. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.`