---
title:  The First Witness
date:   23/03/2025
---

### inGest

All four Gospels emphasize that Mary Magdalene was the first witness of Jesus’ resurrection, probably because she was the most unexpected candidate according to human standards. At that time, a woman’s testimony didn’t carry much weight in court, if it was accepted at all. For the Bible to specifically identify a woman as the first witness is a big deal! Furthermore, Mary was a woman of bad reputation. Mark says, “Now when He rose early on the first day of the week, He appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom He had cast seven demons” (16:9). Mary was definitely not a woman who had her life together.

Demon-possessed people often suffer some of the most socially disturbing afflictions known to humanity. For instance, Jesus healed one demon-possessed man who had been kicked out of his town for midnight episodes of shrieking and cutting himself (Mark 5:1–5). This man had supernatural strength that made it impossible for anyone to calm or contain him. The worst of it all was that the man had completely lost his mind (v. 15). Another time, Jesus encountered a demon-possessed child who foamed at the mouth and gnashed with his teeth (9:17–27). His whole body convulsed violently, and he often threw himself into fire or water.

The Bible doesn’t specify which symptoms Mary suffered for having seven demons, but we can be certain it wasn’t pretty. She was probably the type of messed-up person everyone avoided. People likely crossed the road so her shadow didn’t cross them. She probably knew she was rejected and often hung her head in shame. It’s like she had nothing to offer except a checkered past and a life very much out of control.

Did Jesus cast seven different demons out of Mary all at once or cast a demon out of her seven different times? The record isn’t clear, probably because Jesus is just as capable of healing people from seven demons at once as He is of healing people from seven demons sequentially. Jesus has plenty of forgiveness for those who offend again and again. Jesus welcomes every Mary who keeps coming back, needing forgiveness again. “For a righteous man may fall seven times and rise again” (Prov. 24:16).

Many in Mary’s condition have been abused and traumatized. Many have suffered from sins that others have committed against them. When Jesus chose Mary, He chose a person whom the world wrongly perceived as the lowest of the low. He wanted to show the whole world the kind of people He came to save and His unconditional compassion and love.

`Go through John 20, find a verse that strikes you, and memorize it. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Who do you think are the worst sinners in the world? What hope do you see for them?`