---
title:  Needing Human Support
date:   24/03/2025
---

### inTerpret

Sometimes Christians can be a bit confused about receiving help. Does leaning on friends’ support show a lack of faith in God? The Gospels tell us that Jesus blessed those who depended on their friends’ help. Take the paralyzed man whose friends carried him to Jesus, for example. Without his friends, this man had hardly any chance of knowing Jesus or reaching Him. Jesus immediately recognized the importance of the man’s friends. The Bible says, “When Jesus saw their faith, He said to the paralytic, ‘Son, your sins are forgiven you’ ” (Mark 2:5). Jesus forgave the paralytic not just because of his faith, but because of his friends’ faith too. God knows that we can’t always make it to Him in our own strength. He meets us where we are, and sometimes, that comes in the form of sending us people who will carry us the rest of the way. There is no shame in needing our friends’ support.

Paul wanted church members to exhort one another daily, not just once a week on Sabbath (Heb. 3:13). We need that kind of constant spiritual support from one another. Similarly, Ellen White once counseled a young lady to lean on the faith of her friends: “If you cannot rely upon your own faith, rely upon the faith of others. We believe and hope for you. God accepts our faith in your behalf” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2 [1885], 219). When we’re struggling, let us accept our friends’ faith on our behalf.

Of course, some of us have the exact opposite type of friends—those who carry us away from Jesus. If we’re serious about healing, we must cut out of our lives the friends who prevent healing. The Bible warns, “The righteous should choose his friends carefully, for the way of the wicked leads them astray” (Prov. 12:26), and “he who walks with wise men will be wise, but the companion of fools will be destroyed” (13:20). There’s incredible power in having friends who sharpen us (27:17).

Another area of concern is whether seeking professional help, especially for mental health problems, shows a lack of trust in God. Sometimes, Christians forget that God expects us to use the resources He’s placed within our reach. When Moses needed a sign, God asked, “What is that in your hand?” (Exod. 4:2). When a widow was deep in debt, Elisha asked, “What do you have in the house?” (2 Kings 4:2). It is no more a denial of faith to see a counselor or a doctor for mental health challenges than it is to see a dentist for teeth cleaning or a pastor for spiritual help. Both are taking care of our body, and both are utilizing the resources and people that God has given us for our healing and His glory.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why do Christians sometimes struggle to seek mental health therapy or treatment when needed?`