---
title:  Discovering Purpose
date:   26/03/2025
---

### inVite

In drifting away from God, many people have lost their sense of direction. A universe without God is a universe without purpose. Atheist philosopher Quentin Smith once said, “The most reasonable belief is that we came from nothing, by nothing, and for nothing” Theism, Atheism, and Big Bang Cosmology [1995], 135). From nothing and by nothing are claims that there is no Creator in the universe. For nothing is a philosophical claim that there is no purpose to the universe. If that’s true, people have no reason to live. We may as well just drift aimlessly through life following the path of least resistance, which is what many of us do. A meaningless existence can drive a person into depression. This innate need to have a purpose is why Isaiah 58 invites us to make the people around us our mission. Nobody exemplified the purpose of existence better than Jesus. Embracing Christ’s mission as our own will change how our brains process everything.

Jesus articulated His mission statement, so to speak, while conversing with Zacchaeus, a despised tax collector. Jesus told the crowds that His mission included an outcast like Zacchaeus when He said, “For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost” (Luke 19:10). Jesus’ mission and purpose guided everything He did. Because He was focused on saving the lost, He was happy to dine at Zacchaeus’ house no matter how much the crowds complained about Him eating with tax collectors.

Jesus tried to reset the purpose that drove His disciples. They were busy competing for superiority and pursuing the same goals as people of the world—trying to see who could climb to the top. Jesus called them to give up their selfish ambitions and embrace a new purpose that’s very contrary to human nature, “For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life a ransom for many” (Mark 10:45). It was not easy for the disciples to begin thinking like Jesus. We may judge the disciples for this while doing the very same thing. Especially as young adults, we stress about finding the best job, making enough money, buying a home, marrying, having kids, etc. In other words, we, too, are pursuing success without purpose. These goals are good, but many of us pursue them simply for the sake of success and not as the means of achieving the true goal: finding purpose in Christ.

Jesus is still calling for people who will embrace His mission of serving those around them with selfless love. Rather than seeking status, we should seek a mission field. We, the church of today, are His hands, His feet, and His mouthpiece to the world. His mission will be accomplished through us if we are willing.

Meditate on Isaiah 58 again and look for where Jesus is.

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`To what extent should Jesus’ purpose be our purpose? Is there a limit, a line?`