---
title:  Jesus, The Perfect Offering For Sin
date:  19/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 15:6–21; Ephesians 3:14–19; Hebrews 7:27; Hebrews 9:22–28; Romans 3:21–26.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “With one sacrifice [offering for sin] Christ [Jesus] made his people perfect [accepted; right with God] forever. They are the ones who are being made holy” (Hebrews 10:14, ERV).

ROMAN PEOPLE in New Testament times hated the cross. So, they did not write about the cross very much. The thought of dying on a cross filled the Romans with shame. So, they felt Christianity was a very awful religion. The Romans did not like the idea of worshiping a man as God who had been judged guilty and then hung on a cross to die. The law of the Jews also announced that a man hung on a tree was cursed by God (Deuteronomy 21:23).

These feelings of shame help us understand why the first Christian paintings did not show the cross. Christians painted peacocks, doves, palm leaves, and fish. Later, Christian art showed the boat of Noah, Daniel in the pit of lions, Jonah being spit out by the big fish, and a shepherd carrying a lamb. Early Christians also painted pictures of Jesus healing the lame man and waking up Lazarus from the dead. These pictures show us that Jesus saves us and loves us. But the cross showed loss and shame. Later, this same cross of shame became the sign of Christianity. Paul said the Good News about Jesus was “the teaching about the cross” (1 Corinthians 1:18, ERV).

This week we will look at the cross in the book of Hebrews.