---
title:  Why Were Animal Offerings Needed? 
date:  20/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Paul explains why Jesus needed to die: “Christ [Jesus] died to free people from sins committed [done] against the commands of the first agreement” (Hebrews 9:15, ERV).

In the Near East during Bible times, an agreement between two people or countries was important. The people who were part of the agreement made each other promises. Then they said an oath. The oath showed that the gods will punish the one who broke the agreement. Often, people killed an animal as part of the agreement. Then the people walked between the animal parts. The cut parts showed what will happen to the person who breaks the agreement.

Let us look at the example of the agreement that God made with Abraham. Abraham cut animals in half (Genesis 15:6–21). Do you see that only God walks between the animal parts? By doing so, God shows Abraham that He will not break His promise.

`Compare Genesis 15:6–21 and Jeremiah 34:8–22. What do these verses teach us about the agreement?`

The agreement that God gives Israel is important. This agreement shows us that God will give Israel the Promised Land. The agreement includes commandments and blood. The blood is put on the altar to show the people what will happen to the ones who break the agreement. Now we understand better why Paul says, “If no animal is killed to give blood, then there is no way for people to be forgiven for the wrong things they have done” (Hebrews 9:22, WE).

When Israel broke the agreement, God had an awful decision to make. His agreement said that the one who broke the law of God must die. But God loved His people. What if God just looked away and refused to punish the lawbreakers? Then God can no longer command anyone to keep His law.

So, Jesus came as our Substitute. He died in our place so that we “can have the blessings God promised, blessings that last [continue] forever” (Hebrews 9:15, ERV; also read verse 26; Romans 3:21–26). In this way, Jesus shows us that the penalty for lawbreaking must be paid. At the same time, Jesus can save the ones who broke His law. Jesus can do these two things because He died for us on the cross.

`Why is the law so important to the Good News that Jesus saves us from our sins? What does Hebrews show us?`