---
title:  The Different Offerings 
date:  21/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The death of Jesus made our forgiveness by God possible. But forgiveness is much more than erasing the penalty of sin. Forgiveness includes other important parts. That is why the Israelites offered five different types of offerings. Each offering was necessary to show the meaning of the Cross of Jesus.

`What did Paul pray for in Ephesians 3:14–19?`

Paul wanted the Ephesians to understand the love of Jesus. The different offerings that the Jews brought to God in Old Testament times helped explain this love:

The burnt offering. This gift was an animal offering. The whole animal was burned on the altar (Leviticus 1). This offering showed Jesus who gave His whole life for us. Yes, Jesus was the same as God in every way. But Jesus “put aside [walked away from] everything that belonged to Him and made Himself the same as a servant who is owned by someone” (Philippians 2:5–8, NLV).

The food offering. An Israelite brought to God the gift of food to show his thankfulness for everything God did to take care of His people (Leviticus 2). This gift also showed Jesus, who is the “bread that gives life” (John 6:35, 48). We have everlasting life because of Jesus.

The peace offering. This gift shows us a meal shared between friends and family. The meal celebrated the good life that God gave to His people (Leviticus 3). This gift also showed Jesus. Because of His death, we have peace (Isaiah 53:5; Romans 5:1; Ephesians 2:14). The peace offering also shows us that we need to take part in the death of Jesus for us. How? We need to “eat” His body and “drink” His blood (John 6:51–56).

The sin offering. This offering removed the guilt caused by sin (Leviticus 4:1–5:13). The blood of the animal offering showed the life of the animal (Leviticus 17:11). This blood was a picture for the blood of Jesus. The blood of Jesus saves us from our sins (Matthew 26:28; Romans 3:25; Hebrews 9:14).

The guilt offering (Leviticus 5:14–6:7). This offering shows us what we must do to make things right after God forgives us. God expects us to make things right, as far as possible, with the people we hurt and did wrong.