---
title:  Jesus, The Perfect Offering 
date:  22/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 7:27 and Hebrews 10:10. What do these verses tell us about the offering that Jesus makes?`

Paul tells us the reason there were so many priests or religious leaders from the family group of Levi. “The other priests were many, because they died and could not go on with their work” (Hebrews 7:23, WE). The priests “need to offer sacrifices [animal offerings] day after day” (Hebrews 7:27, NIrV) and also a special offering “once [one time] every year” (Hebrews 9:25, ERV). These gifts and offerings “cannot make a person’s heart clean to worship God” (Hebrews 9:9, WE; Hebrews 10:1–4).

But Jesus is so much better than the priests. Jesus needed to offer Himself only “one time.” That offering was “enough for all time” (Hebrews 10:10, 12–14, ERV). His offering makes our hearts clean (Hebrews 9:14; Hebrews 10:1–10). His offering also puts away our sin (Hebrews 9:26). His offering is better than the animal offerings because He is the Son of God (Hebrews 7:26–28). Jesus did everything God wanted Him to do (Hebrews 10:5–10).

So, the offering of Jesus happened only “one time” and was “enough for all time.” This idea teaches us several important Bible truths:

1. The offering of Jesus is perfect. No one can offer a better gift. The priests offered gifts again and again because their gifts did not make us clean. “If those gifts given to God could take away sins, the people who came to worship would no longer feel guilty of sin. They would have given no more gifts” (Hebrews 10:2, NLV).
2. All the different types of offerings in the Old Testament show us Jesus on the cross. Jesus died to make us clean from sin (Hebrews 9:14). Jesus also makes us holy (Hebrews 10:10–14). Jesus puts sin away from our lives (Hebrews 9:26). Before the priests from the family of Levi can come to God for the people, they must be clean and made holy (Leviticus 8, 9). The offering of Jesus makes us clean and holy (Hebrews 10:10–14). Now we can come to God with bold faith and hope (Hebrews 10:19–23). We can serve God as His royal priests (Hebrews 9:14; 1 Peter 2:9).
3. The offering of Jesus gives us spiritual life, too. The cross shows us the example we must follow in our own lives. Paul invites us to look at Jesus on His cross and follow Him (Hebrews 12:1–4; Hebrews 13:12, 13).