---
title:  The Cross And Cost Of Forgiveness 
date:  23/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 9:22–28. What do these verses say about the work that Jesus does for us in the temple in heaven?`

The Bible teaches us that the temple in heaven needs to be made clean from sin. This idea should not surprise us when we think about the temple that Solomon built. This temple was a word picture for the government of God (1 Samuel 4:4; 2 Samuel 6:2). As King, God is the Judge of His people. His government “is built on what is right and fair” (Psalm 97:2, NIrV). So, His people expect God to be fair. They expect God to judge in favor of the innocent and to punish the guilty. When God forgives sinners, God becomes responsible their sin (Exodus 34:7; Numbers 14:17–19). The Hebrew word for “forgiving” in these verses is “nōśēʾ” This word shows us someone “carrying” something. So, this word helps us see that God “carries,” or becomes responsible for our sins when He forgives us.

The animal offerings that an Israelite brought to the temple showed this idea, too. The Israelite confessed his sins over the animal. Then he killed it. The priest, or holy leader, put the blood on part of the altar. The priest sprinkled the blood in front of the curtain in the Holy Room of the temple, too. The curtain separated the Holy Room from the Most Holy Room. In this way, the priest brought the sin into the temple. This action showed how God took the sins of His people and carried them Himself.

But sin makes the temple in heaven dirty. So, the temple needs cleaning. The temple on earth shows us how God will clean the temple in heaven. This work has two parts. During the year, the Israelites brought offerings to the temple. The offerings showed that God made them clean. But their sin was now shifted from them to the temple and to God Himself. At the end of the year, God cleaned the temple. He moved the sin from the temple to the goat named Azazel. Azazel shows us Satan (Leviticus 16:15–22).

These two parts show us the work that God does in heaven to remove sin (Exodus 25:9; Hebrews 8:5). This work allows God to show mercy at the same time that He punishes sin. The people who confessed their sins during the year showed their loyalty to God. They rested and emptied their hearts of all pride on the Day that God Judges His People (Leviticus 16:29–31). On that Day, God will “destroy” the ones who show no loyalty (Leviticus 23:27–32).