---
title:  God, Our Judge, And His Love For Us 
date:  24/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`God saves us because of the Cross. He forgives us for our sins because of the Cross, too. What does this Bible truth show us about Him? For the answer, read Romans 3:21–26; Romans 1:16, 17; and Romans 5:8.`

The forgiveness we get from God shows us the work that Jesus does for us in heaven. First, Jesus removes our sins. He “carried” our sins Himself on the cross. There, He won forgiveness for everyone who believes in Him (Acts 2:38; Acts 5:31). So, Jesus can forgive anyone who believes in Him. Second, Jesus makes a way for us to go to God. This way is named the New Agreement. The New Agreement allows Jesus to put the law of God in the minds of Christians (Hebrews 8:10–12; Ezekiel 36:25–27). The Holy Spirit works with Jesus to put the law inside us.

Second, Jesus works for us during the time when God judges everyone earth. This work happens during the end times. When Paul wrote Hebrews, this time was far away in the future (Hebrews 2:1–4; Hebrews 6:2; Hebrews 9:27, 28; Hebrews 10:25). But we now live in that time. In His work as our Judge, God starts with His people (Daniel 7:9–27; Matthew 22:1-14; Revelation 14:7). The work that God does as our Judge will show everyone that He is fair and right when He forgives us. During this time, everyone in heaven can look at the life records of all the people of God. God will show everyone in heaven the change that happened in the hearts of His people. God will show how His people changed for the better when they accepted Jesus as their Savior and welcomed the Holy Spirit into their hearts.

Ellen G. White talks about this time: “Man stands in front of God. The record of the life of man is stained and dirty with sin. Man confesses his guilt. He cannot argue against the charges brought against him because of his sins. But Jesus is there. Jesus is our Helper, our Lawyer. He argues in favor of everyone who turns away from sin and gives his life to God. Jesus defends us. He wins the quarrel against Satan, who accuses us. Jesus shows what He did at Calvary for us. Jesus lived a life of perfect obedience to the law of God before He died on the cross. This perfect life gives Jesus all the power in heaven and on earth. Jesus asks the Father to show mercy for guilty man and to bring him back to God again.”—Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, pages, 471, 472, adapted.