---
title:  Further Thought
date:  25/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Calvary,” pages 741–757; “ ‘It Is Finished,’ ” pages 758–764; in The Desire of Ages.

Professor Jiřί Moskala explains what happens on the Day When God Judges His People. God “does not show my sins to everyone in heaven the same as a shopkeeper shows his goods for sale in the window of his shop. No, God does not do that at all! God shows the surprising and wonderful power of His mercy. In front of everyone in heaven, God explains my feelings and thoughts about Him. God shows my behavior, my actions, and the way I lived. God will show the people in heaven all of these things. Sure, Jesus will tell everyone that I made many mistakes. Yes, I sinned against His holy law. But I also was sorry for my sins and turned away from my sins. I asked God for forgiveness. I was changed by His mercy and loving favor. Jesus will announce: ‘My blood is the only thing that the sinner named Jiri needs. Jiri chose to live for Me. Now Jiri is kind to other people. He is not selfish. He is My good and loyal servant, who is full of faith.’ ”—“Toward a Biblical Theology of God’s Judgment: A Celebration of the Cross in Seven Phases of Divine Universal Judgment,” Journal of the Adventist Theological Society 15 (Spring 2004): page 155, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Many people feel that they somehow need to make God an offering to earn His forgiveness. Some people go on long journeys to show their faith. Many people do good works. Other people give up many pleasures in life to try to get God to forgive them. What should we think about all this behavior? How does the cross of Jesus show us that He put an end to the need for all these offerings (Daniel 9:27; Hebrews 10:18)?`

`At the same time, what part do offerings have in our lives? What did Jesus mean when He said that we need to pick up our cross and follow Him (Matthew 16:24)? What did Paul mean when he said, “Let your bodies be a living and holy gift given to God” (Romans 12:1, NLV)? What is the connection between Matthew 16:25 and Romans 12:1 and the advice that Paul gives us in Hebrews 13:15, 16?`