---
title:  Family Troubles
date:  05/06/2022
---

Jacob has, at last, settled in the land. While Isaac was only “a stranger,” the text also says that Jacob “dwelt in the land” (Gen. 37:1). Yet, it was then, as he was settling into the land, that the troubles began, this time from inside the family. The controversy does not concern the possession of the land or the use of a well; it is, mainly, spiritual.

`Read Genesis 37:1–11. What family dynamic predisposed Joseph’s brothers to hate him so much?`

From the very beginning, we understand that Joseph, the son of Jacob’s old age (Gen. 37:3), enjoyed a special relationship with his father, who “loved him more than all his brothers” (Gen. 37:4, NKJV). Jacob even went so far as to make Joseph “a tunic of many colors” (Gen. 37:3, NKJV), a prince’s garment (2 Sam. 13:18), an indication of Jacob’s secret intention to elevate Joseph, Rachel’s first son, to the status of firstborn.

The future will, indeed, confirm Jacob’s wishes because Joseph eventually will receive the rights of the firstborn (1 Chron. 5:2). No wonder, then, that Joseph’s brothers hated him so much and could not even engage in peaceful conversations with him (Gen. 37:4).

Furthermore, Joseph would bring bad reports to his father about any reprehensible behavior from his brothers (Gen. 37:2). No one likes a snitch.

So, when Joseph shared his dreams, suggesting that God would put him in a higher position and that they, his brothers, would bow before him, they hated him even more. The genuine prophetic character of the dreams was even ratified by the fact that they are repeated (see Gen. 41:32). Although Jacob openly rebuked his son (Gen. 37:10), he kept this incident in his mind, meditating on its meaning and waiting for its fulfillment (Gen. 37:11). The implication is that, perhaps, deep down he thought there might be something to these dreams after all. He was right, however much he couldn’t know it at the time.

`Read Matthew 20:26, 27. What crucial principle is revealed here, and how can we learn to manifest in our own lives what it teaches?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The sin of Jacob, and the train of events to which it led, had not failed to exert an influence for evil—an influence that revealed its bitter fruit in the character and life of his sons. As these sons arrived at manhood they developed serious faults. The results of polygamy were manifest in the household. This terrible evil tends to dry up the very springs of love, and its influence weakens the most sacred ties. The jealousy of the several mothers had embittered the family relation, the children had grown up contentious and impatient of control, and the father’s life was darkened with anxiety and grief.<br/>
There was one, however, of a widely different character—the elder son of Rachel, Joseph, whose rare personal beauty seemed but to reflect an inward beauty of mind and heart. . . . His mother being dead, his affections clung the more closely to the father, and Jacob’s heart was bound up in this child of his old age. He “loved Joseph more than all his children.”<br/>
But even this affection was to become a cause of trouble and sorrow. Jacob unwisely manifested his preference for Joseph, and this excited the jealousy of his other sons.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 209.

Joseph listened to his father’s instructions, and feared the Lord. He was more obedient to his father’s righteous teachings than any of his brethren. He treasured his instructions, and with integrity of heart, loved to obey God. He was grieved at the wrong conduct of some of his brethren, and meekly entreated them to pursue a righteous course, and leave off their wicked acts. This only imbittered them against him. His hatred of sin was such that he could not endure to see his brethren sinning against God. He laid the matter before his father, hoping that his authority might reform them. This exposure of their wrongs enraged his brethren against him. They had observed their father’s strong love for Joseph, and were envious at him. Their envy grew into hatred, and finally to murder.—Spiritual Gifts, vol. 3, p. 138.

No human being is to seat himself on the highest seat, accepting the praise of others, and forgetting that his treasures belong to God. God’s blessing is promised to those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, but nothing is so offensive as to hunger and thirst after the praise of men. . . .<br/>
Were it not for God’s gracious gifts and blessings, we should be bankrupt for eternity. Then let no one sound his own praises, feeding upon his supposed wisdom. If his talents were of his own manufacture, there would be some consistency in self-praise. But man has nothing of his own. Let us not reveal our lack of true wisdom by exalting self. Let us bow low in humility at the feet of Him who has entrusted to us our talents. Let us use and improve these talents, handing principle and interest back to the Giver.—This Day With God, p. 200.