---
title:  The Attack on Joseph
date:  06/06/2022
---

However horrible the events that were to follow, they’re not hard to comprehend. To be in that close proximity to, and even to be related to, someone whom you hated would inevitably lead, sooner or later, only to trouble.

And it did.

`Read Genesis 37:12–36. What does this teach us about how dangerous and evil unregenerate hearts can be and what they can lead any one of us to do?`

The brothers hate Joseph because they are jealous of God’s favor (Acts 7:9), a favor that will be confirmed at each step in the next course of events. When Joseph has lost his way, a man finds him and guides him (Gen. 37:15). When Joseph’s brothers plot to kill him, Reuben intervenes and suggests that he be thrown into a pit instead (Gen. 37:20–22).

It’s hard to imagine the kind of hatred expressed here, especially for someone of their own household. How could these young men have done something so cruel? Did they not think, even for a few moments, about how this would impact their own father? Whatever resentment they might have had toward their father because he favored Joseph, to do this to one of his children was, truly, despicable. What a powerful manifestation of just how evil human beings can be.

“But some of them [the brothers] were ill at ease; they did not feel the satisfaction they had anticipated from their revenge. Soon a company of travelers was seen approaching. It was a caravan of Ishmaelites from beyond Jordan, on their way to Egypt with spices and other merchandise. Judah now proposed to sell their brother to these heathen traders instead of leaving him to die. While he would be effectually put out of their way, they would remain clear of his blood.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 211.

After they cast him into the pit, planning to kill him later, a caravan passes, and Judah proposes to his brothers to sell Joseph to them (Gen. 37:26, 27). After Joseph is sold to the Midianites (Gen. 37:28), the Midianites sell him to someone in Egypt (Gen. 37:36), thus anticipating his future glory.

`Why is it so important to seek God’s power in order to change bad traits of character before they can manifest themselves in acts that, at one point in your life, you would never have imagined yourself doing?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Twice God’s covenant and His statutes had been rejected by the world. Both the people before the Flood and the descendants of Noah cast off the divine authority. Then God entered into covenant with Abraham, and took to Himself a people to become the depositaries of His law. To seduce and destroy this people, Satan began at once to lay his snares. The children of Jacob were tempted to contract marriages with the heathen and to worship their idols.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 332.

[Joseph’s] brothers rudely repulsed him. He told them his errand, but they answered him not. Joseph was alarmed at their angry looks. Fear took the place of joy, and he instinctively shrank with dread from their presence. They then took hold of him violently. They taunted him with the admonitions he had given them in the past, accused him of relating his dreams to exalt himself above them in the mind of their father, that he might love him more than themselves.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 1, p. 1096.

A good character must be built up brick by brick. Those characteristics which will enable the youth to labor successfully in God’s cause must be obtained by the diligent exercise of their faculties, by improving every advantage Providence gives them, and by connecting with the Source of all wisdom. They must be satisfied with no low standard. The characters of Joseph and Daniel are good models for them to follow; and in the life of the Saviour they have a perfect pattern.<br/>
All are given an opportunity to develop character. All may fill their appointed places in God’s great plan. The Lord accepted Samuel from his very childhood, because his heart was pure. He was given to God, a consecrated offering, and the Lord made him a channel of light. If the youth of today will consecrate themselves as did Samuel, the Lord will accept them and use them in His work. Of their life they may be able to say with the psalmist, “O God, Thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared Thy wondrous works.” Psalm 71:17.—Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students, p. 537.