---
title:  Joseph, a Slave in Egypt
date:  08/06/2022
---

We now pick up the flow of Joseph’s stories, which have been “interrupted” by the Tamar incident. Joseph is now working as a slave for the “captain of the guard,” who is in charge of the prison for royal officials (Gen. 40:3, 4; Gen. 41:10–12).

`Read Genesis 39. In light of the example of Joseph’s working as a manager under Potiphar, what are the factors that led to such success?`

Almost immediately, Joseph was characterized as a man of success (Gen. 39:2, 3). He was so good, and his master so trusted him that “all that he had he put into his hand,” and Potiphar even made him “overseer over his house” (Gen 39:4).

Joseph’s success, however, does not corrupt him. When Potiphar’s wife notices him and wants to sleep with him, Joseph unambiguously refuses and prefers to lose his job and his security rather than “ ‘do this great wickedness, and sin against God’ ” (Gen. 39:9). The woman, humiliated by Joseph’s refusal, reports falsely to her servants and to her husband that Joseph wanted to rape her. As a result, Joseph is cast into prison.

Joseph experiences here what we all have experienced: the sense of abandonment by God, though, even in this difficult time, “the Lord was with Joseph” (Gen. 39:21).

Eventually, the Lord acts, and it has an impact on Joseph’s relationship with the officer of the prison. Here, too, as in his master’s house, the Lord blesses Joseph. He obviously is a gifted man, and despite even worse circumstances now (after all, before, he was still a slave!), he seeks to make the best of it. Whatever his gifts, however, the text makes it clear that, in the end, it was only God who brought him success. “The keeper of the prison did not look into anything that was under Joseph’s authority, because the Lord was with him; and whatever he did, the Lord made it prosper” (Gen. 39:23, NKJV). How important that all who are gifted, all who are “successful,” remember where it all comes from!

`Read Genesis 39:7–12. How did Joseph resist the advances of Potiphar’s wife? Why did Joseph specifically say that to do what she asked would be a sin against God? What understanding does he show of the nature of sin and what it is?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Joseph regarded his being sold into Egypt as the greatest calamity that could have befallen him; but he saw the necessity of trusting in God as he had never done when protected by his father’s love. Joseph brought God with him into Egypt, and the fact was made apparent by his cheerful demeanor amid his sorrow. As the ark of God brought rest and prosperity to Israel, so did this God-loving, God-fearing youth bring a blessing to Egypt. This was manifested in so marked a manner that Potiphar, in whose house he served, attributed all his blessings to his purchased slave, and made him a son rather than a servant. It is God’s purpose that those who love and honor His name shall be honored also themselves, and that the glory given to God through them shall be reflected upon themselves.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 1, p. 1096.

Joseph’s brethren flattered themselves that they were taking a sure course to prevent the fulfillment of Joseph’s strange dreams. But the Lord controlled events, and caused the cruel course of Joseph’s brethren to bring about the fulfillment of the dreams which they were laboring to frustrate.—Spiritual Gifts, vol. 3, p. 143.

When Joseph was tempted to deviate from the path of right, to transgress the law of God and prove untrue to his master, he firmly resisted and gave evidence of the elevating power of the fear of God in his answer to his master’s wife. . . . He would not be persuaded to deviate from the path of righteousness and trample upon God’s law by any inducements or threats. . . .<br/>
Here is an example to all generations who should live upon the earth. Although they may be exposed to temptations, yet they should ever realize that there is a defense at hand, and it will be their own fault if they are not preserved. God will be a present help, and His Spirit a shield. Although surrounded with the severest temptations, there is a source of strength to which they can apply and resist them.<br/>
How fierce was the assault upon Joseph’s morals. It came from one of influence, the most likely to lead astray. Yet how promptly and firmly was it resisted. He suffered for his virtue and integrity, for she who would lead him astray revenged herself upon the virtue she could not subvert, and by her influence caused him to be cast into prison, by charging him with a foul wrong. Here Joseph suffered because he would not yield his integrity. He had placed his reputation and interest in the hands of God. And although he was suffered to be afflicted for a time, to prepare him to fill an important position, yet God safely guarded that reputation that was blackened by a wicked accuser, and afterward, in His own good time, caused it to shine. God made even the prison the way to his elevation. Virtue will in time bring its own reward. The shield which covered Joseph’s heart was the fear of God, which caused him to be faithful and just to his master and true to God.—The Story of Redemption, pp. 101–103.