---
title:  The Dreams of Pharaoh
date:  09/06/2022
---

`Read Genesis 40:1–41:36. How are the dreams of Pharaoh related to the dreams of the officers? What is the significance of this parallel?`

The providential character of the events continues. Over time, Joseph is put in charge of the prisoners, two of whom happen to be former officers of Pharaoh, a butler and a baker (Gen. 41:9–11). They are both troubled by dreams that they cannot understand, because “there is no interpreter” (Gen. 40:8). Joseph, then, interprets their respective dreams.

In a parallel to the two officers’ dreams, Pharaoh also has two dreams, which no one can interpret (Gen. 41:1–8). At that moment the butler providentially remembers Joseph and recommends him to Pharaoh (Gen. 41:9–13).

In a parallel to the other dreams, Pharaoh, like the officers, is troubled, and, like them, reveals his dreams (Gen. 41:14–24), and Joseph interprets them. Like the officers’ dreams, Pharaoh’s dreams display parallels of symbols: the two series of seven cows (fat and gaunt) just as the two series of heads of grain (plump and thin) represent two series of years, one good and one bad. The seven cows parallel the seven heads of grain, repeating the same message, an evidence of their divine origin, just like Joseph’s dreams (Gen. 41:32; compare with Gen. 37:9).

Though Joseph is the one who interpreted the dream for Pharaoh, Joseph makes certain that Pharaoh knows that it was God, Elohim, who showed the king the things that He, God, was going to do (Gen. 41:25, 28). It seems, too, that Pharaoh got the message because, when he decided to appoint someone to be over the land, his argument was as follows:

“ ‘Inasmuch as God has shown you all this, there is no one as discerning and wise as you. You shall be over my house, and all my people shall be ruled according to your word’ ” (Gen. 41:39, 40, NKJV).

How fascinating: thanks to God, Joseph goes from ruler over Potiphar’s house to ruler over the prison to ruler over all of Egypt. What a powerful story about how, even amid what look like terrible circumstances, God’s providences are revealed.

`How can we learn to trust God and cling to His promises when events don’t appear providential at all, and indeed, God seems silent?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[A] divine hand was about to open the prison gates. The king of Egypt had in one night two dreams, apparently pointing to the same event and seeming to foreshadow some great calamity. He could not determine their significance, yet they continued to trouble his mind. The magicians and wise men of his realm could give no interpretation. The king’s perplexity and distress increased, and terror spread throughout his palace. The general agitation recalled to the chief butler’s mind the circumstances of his own dream; with it came the memory of Joseph, and a pang of remorse for his forgetfulness and ingratitude. He at once informed the king how his own dream and that of the chief baker had been interpreted by a Hebrew captive, and how the predictions had been fulfilled.<br/>
It was humiliating to Pharaoh to turn away from the magicians and wise men of his kingdom to consult an alien and a slave, but he was ready to accept the lowliest service if his troubled mind might find relief. Joseph was immediately sent for; he put off his prison attire. . . . He was then conducted to the presence of the king.<br/>
“And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou canst understand a dream to interpret it. And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me: God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace.” Joseph’s reply to the king reveals his humility and his faith in God. He modestly disclaims the honor of possessing in himself superior wisdom. “It is not in me.” God alone can explain these mysteries.—Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 219, 220.

From the dungeon Joseph was exalted to be ruler over all the land of Egypt. It was a position of high honor, yet it was beset with difficulty and peril. . . . But Joseph’s character bore the test alike of adversity and prosperity. The same fidelity to God was manifest when he stood in the palace of the Pharaohs as when in a prisoner’s cell. He was still a stranger in a heathen land, separated from his kindred, the worshipers of God; but he fully believed that the divine hand had directed his steps, and in constant reliance upon God he faithfully discharged the duties of his position. Through Joseph the attention of the king and great men of Egypt was directed to the true God.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 222.

In Christian experience, the Lord permits trials of various kinds to call men and women to a higher order of living and to a more sanctified service. Without these trials there would be a continual falling away from the likeness of Christ, and men would become imbued with a spirit of . . . fanciful, human philosophy, which would lead them to unite with Satan’s followers. . . .<br/>
. . . Men [and women] in positions of trust are to be instrumentalities in the hands of God for promoting His glory.—Manuscript 85, August 22, 1906.