---
title:  Figthing With God 
date:  29/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

After Jacob leaves Laban, Jacob soon has another experience with God. Jacob is afraid because he knows that his brother Esau is coming against him with 400 men (Genesis 32:6). So, Jacob prays to the Lord for help. Jacob says, “ ‘You have been very kind and faithful [kept your promises] to me. But I’m not worthy of [did nothing to earn] any of this [mercy]’ ” (Genesis 32:10; NIrV). For sure, Jacob now knows what the mercy of God is all about.

How does the Lord answer Jacob?

`Read the story in Genesis 32:22–31; also read Hosea 12:3, 4. What spiritual lessons does this story about Jacob and the Angel teach us?`

Jacob is deeply upset. We can understand why, right? His brother is on the way to kill him. So, Jacob does everything he can to protect his family. Then Jacob camps for the night by himself so he can pray. All of a sudden, he is attacked by “a Man” (Genesis 32:24, NKJV). The word written as “Man” shows us God in the Hebrew language (read Isaiah 53:3). Daniel uses this same Hebrew word to show us our high priest in heaven, Michael (Daniel 10:5). A high priest is a chief religious leader. Joshua uses this same word, “Man,” to show us the Lord, who is the “Commander of the LORD’s army” (Joshua 5:14, ERV; read also verses 13–15). Joshua says this Commander is the Lord Himself.

As Jacob fights this “Man,” Jacob starts to see that he fights against God Himself. That is why Jacob says, “ ‘I won’t let you go unless [except when] you bless me’ ” (Genesis 32:26, NIrV). Jacob grabs hold of God and will not let go. When Jacob refuses to let go, Jacob shows his deep wish for God to forgive Him and to accept him.

“Jacob lied and cheated to get the special blessing from his brother. God showed Jacob his sin. Jacob saw that he had not trusted the promises of God. Jacob tried by his own efforts to make the things happen that God promised to do for him in His own time and way.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 197, 198, adapted.

God changes the name of Jacob. This name change is proof that God forgives Jacob. The name that always caused Jacob to remember his sin is changed to Israel. The Lord says, “ ‘I give you this name because you have fought with God and with men, and you have won’ ” (Genesis 32:28, ERV).