---
title:  The Brothers Meet 
date:  30/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jacob now leaves Peniel. Peniel is the place where Jacob fought with God. The name “Peniel” means “the face of God” (read Genesis 32:30). There, Jacob saw God face-to-face and lives. Now Jacob moves to meet his brother. The two brothers have been separated for 20 years. Esau comes to meet Jacob with 400 men (Genesis 33:1). Jacob is worried. So, he gets himself and his family ready for whatever may happen next.

`Read about Jacob and Esau in Genesis 33. First, Jacob sees the face of God and then he sees the face of Esau. What connection do you see between the two experiences? What lessons can we learn from this story about how we should love our own “brothers,” whoever they may be?`

Jacob bows down seven times in front of his brother (Genesis 33:3). Several times Jacob calls Esau “ ‘my lord’ ” (Genesis 33:8, 13, 15, NKJV). Jacob also introduces himself to Esau as his “ ‘servant’ ” (Genesis 33:5; compare with Genesis 32:4, 18, 20, NKJV). The seven bows of Jacob show us the seven blessings that Isaac gave Jacob (Genesis 27:27–29). When Jacob bows to Esau, Jacob also reverses the blessing that Isaac gave him: “ ‘nations [people groups will bow] down to you’ ” (Genesis 27:29, NKJV).

Why does Jacob say and do these things? He is trying to pay back his brother the blessing that he stole from him (read Genesis 33:11). When Esau sees his brother, Esau runs to him. Does Esau kill Jacob? No. Esau “kissed him, and they wept” (Genesis 33:4, NKJV).

Later, Jacob says to Esau: “ ‘I am very happy to see your face again. It is like [the same as] seeing the face of God’ ” (Genesis 33:10, ERV). Why does Jacob say these surprising words? Because he is so happy and pleased that Esau forgives him. The word written as “happy” comes from the Hebrew verb “ratsah” (Genesis 33:10). This word shows us any gift that God accepts or that pleases Him. So, “ratsah” shows us that God forgives the one who gives the gift (Leviticus 22:27; Amos 5:22).

First, God forgives Jacob at Peniel. Now Esau forgives Jacob, too. So, the first experience of forgiveness with God at Peniel helps Jacob get ready for the second experience of forgiveness with his brother. For sure, Jacob understands the mercy of God more now than ever before.