---
title:  Dinah 
date:  31/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jacob makes peace with his brother. Now Jacob is ready to settle in the land of Canaan. “After Jacob came from Paddan Aram, he arrived safely at the city of Shechem in Canaan” (Genesis 33:18, NIrV). The word “safely” comes from the Hebrew word “shalom,” which means “peace.” For the first time, Jacob has peace in his journey home.

Jacob buys some land in Shechem (Genesis 33:19). There, Jacob builds an altar to show his faith in God. Jacob understands how much he must depend on God. So, Jacob offers God many gifts and worships Him.

Jacob-Israel has trouble when he tries to settle in the land. In the same way, Isaac had trouble at Gerar with Abimelech (Genesis 26:1–33). Jacob does his best to try to live in peace with the Canaanites.

`Read the story in Genesis 34. What happens in this story? How does this story upset the plans of Jacob to live in peace with the Canaanites?`

In this story, we read about Shechem, who sees Dinah, the daughter of Jacob. Shechem forces Dinah to have sex with him. But then Shechem falls in love with Dinah and wants to marry her. He is willing to be circumcised so that he can marry her. As you will remember, being circumcised means that the tip of the skin at the end of the male sex parts is cut off. This act was a sign of the agreement between God and His people.

But the brothers of Dinah are angry with Shechem. God told His people not to marry the Canaanites (Leviticus 19:29). So, Simeon and Levi decide to punish Shechem. First, Simeon and Levi lie to Shechem (Genesis 34:13). Next, Simeon and Levi kill all the men in the city, Shechem, and his father. Then Simeon and Levi steal everything in the city (Genesis 34:25–27).

When Dinah is forced to have sex, Jacob says nothing (Genesis 34:5). Jacob wants only to live in peace. But when Jacob hears what his two sons do, he scolds them because of the trouble they cause for him in the land (Genesis 34:30).

`In the Genesis stories, we see the same things happening again and again: lies and cheating, mercy and forgiveness. What do these things tell us about humans?`