---
title:  The Worship Of False Gods 
date:  01/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story in Genesis 34:30–35:15. What lessons can we learn about worship from what happens here?`

Jacob complains about the crimes of his two sons (Genesis 34:30) and scolds them (Genesis 34:31). Right away, God tells Jacob to leave Shechem and go back to Bethel to make a new agreement with God. God tells him to build an altar when he arrives.

After the command from God, Jacob tells his people to throw away the idols or statues of Canaanite gods. The sons of Jacob took these idols from the city when they killed Shechem and his people. These idols also included the statues that Rachel stole from the house of her father (Genesis 31:19, 32). God cannot make new His agreement with Jacob until his family gets rid of the false gods from their tents and their hearts.

This story shows us an important Bible truth about turning away from sin. We must do more than confess our sin and say we are sorry. We must get rid of any false gods in our hearts. False gods are everywhere. If we are not careful, we can worship just about anything, right?

So, Jacob obeys God. Then God causes the people around Jacob to feel afraid of him (Genesis 35:5). No one dares to attack Jacob. Now Jacob and his family are ready to worship God (Genesis 35:6). This story shows us that Jacob and his family have made peace with God and with each other. Jacob gives the name El Bethel to the place where he builds the altar. This name helps Jacob remember his dream about the ladder. So, we can see that the broken connection between heaven and earth is now made new again.

At this time, God helps Jacob remember that his name has been changed to Israel (Genesis 35:10). Then God gives Jacob-Israel a double blessing. First, God blesses Jacob with the promise of many future children. Second, kings will come from his family line, including the Savior, who is the King of all kings. Second, God blesses Jacob by promising him the land of Canaan (Genesis 35:12).

`When we love anything more than we love God, we are guilty of worshiping false gods. The worship of false gods can sneak into our hearts before we know it. What can we do to avoid this danger?`