---
title:  Rachel Dies 
date:  02/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Jacob and his family in Genesis 15–29. What other troubles does Jacob meet?`

As soon as Jacob leaves Bethel, three things happen on the last part of his journey home. Benjamin, his last son, is born. Then Rachel dies. And Reuben, who is the first son of Jacob and Lea, sleeps with one of the other wives of Jacob. The Bible does not tell us why Reuben does something so evil. We just do not know.

The birth of Benjamin is connected to Bethlehem (Genesis 35:19). Bethlehem is within the borders of the Promised Land. So, the birth of Benjamin becomes a word picture that shows us the promise of God for the future of Israel. The woman who helps deliver the baby of Rachel tells Rachel “ ‘Do not fear’ ” (Genesis 35:17, NKJV). These words are the same words that God said to Abraham (Genesis 15:1).

Jacob changes the name that Rachel gives her baby before she dies. Rachel names her son Ben-oni, which means “son of my sorrow.” This name shows us her pain. Jacob changes this name to Benjamin, which means “son of the right hand.” This name shows us that Jacob hopes for the Promised Land and for promises that God made to Israel.

During this time, Reuben sleeps with Bilhah, one of the wives of Jacob. Bilhah is also the maid of Rachel (Genesis 35:25; Genesis 30:3). The Bible tells us that “Israel heard about this, and he was very angry” (Genesis 35:22). In the end, Jacob trusts God to keep His promises, even when His family does things they should not do. Because of his awful sin, Reuben will not get the special blessing that comes to the son who is born first.

`For sure, the family of Jacob makes many mistakes. In the end, God keeps His promises to Jacob and His family anyway. Now just think how different this story will be if the children of Jacob obey God! Wow! Things will be much easier, right? How much easier will it make our lives if we work with God and not against Him?`