---
title:  Further Thought
date:  03/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Night of Wrestling,” pages 195–203, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Jacob fights with God all night. This experience of pain and suffering shows us the awful test that the people of God will have just before the Second Coming. . . . The people of God will fight against the powers of evil. They will have the same experience as Jacob in this final fight. God will give them a test of faith. This test will show everyone that His people are patient. The test will also show everyone how much His people trust Him to deliver them. Satan will make them feel that they have no chance of being saved. Satan will tell them their sins are too awful. So, God will never pardon them. The people of God will see how much they failed God in the past. They will see all their mistakes. As they think about their past, their hopes will die. Then they remember that God is full of mercy. The people of God also will remember that they turned away from their sins. They will ask God to keep His promises that He made to them because of Jesus. These promises are for helpless sinners who have confessed their sins. Then the faith of the people of God will not fail when God does not answer their prayers right away. They will hold on to the strength of God just as Jacob held on to the Angel. And the people of God will say, “ ‘I won’t let you go unless [except when] you bless me’ ” (Genesis 32:26, NIrV). . . .

“The history of Jacob gives us hope. God will not turn away from the ones who sinned but then turned back to Him with sorry hearts. By faith, Jacob got what he failed to get by fighting in his own strength. Jacob trusted in God and not in himself. God taught His servant that only His power and mercy will give him the blessing he wants so much. The same is true for us in these end times. Dangers will be all around us, and we will feel very sad. So, we must depend completely on the faith and promises of Jesus. We can do nothing to save ourselves.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 201–203, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How does the experience of Jacob show us this Bible truth: “it is when I am weak that I am really strong” (2 Corinthians 12:10, ERV)?`

`What false gods do we worship today? How can we make sure we worship only God?`