---
title:  The Work of the Holy Spirit
date:   18/03/2017
---

### The Work of the Holy Spirit

### Read for This Week’s Study
John 16:8–11; Rom. 5:10; Heb. 4:15, 16; 1 Pet. 5:8, 9; 1 John 5:12, 13; Ps. 31:24.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit” (Romans 15:13, NASB). 

As we come to the end of our study this quarter on the Holy Spirit and spirituality, we will focus on one other decisive work of the Spirit that has not yet received our attention. 

When Jesus announced to the disciples that He would go to the Father, He promised to send them the Holy Spirit. “ ‘But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, He will teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all things that I said to you’ ” (John 14:26, NKJV). 

According to Jesus, the Holy Spirit is a parakletos, that is, a “Helper” or “Comforter” or an “Advocate” who intercedes for us. At the same time Jesus also announced the work that this Advocate would do: He will “convict” the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment (John 16:8, NKJV). 

During our final week we will study in more detail this specific work of the Holy Spirit. We also will learn how this work of the Spirit is related to two other important aspects of His ministry for us: our assurance of salvation and the glorious hope that propels our life as disciples of Jesus Christ.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, March 25._
