---
title:  Reaching Souls
date:  24/09/2019
---

Church discussions sometimes seem to get stuck on the apparent need to choose between a focus on social work or gospel work, either charity or witnessing, either justice or evangelism. But when we better understand each of these concepts and observe the ministry of Jesus, the difference breaks down, and we realize that preaching the gospel and working to help others are closely linked.

In one of Ellen White’s best-known statements, she explained it like this: “Christ’s method alone will give true success in reaching the people. The Saviour mingled with men as one who desired their good. He showed His sympathy for them, ministered to their needs, and won their confidence. Then He bade them, ‘Follow Me.’ . . .

“The poor are to be relieved, the sick cared for, the sorrowing and the bereaved comforted, the ignorant instructed, the inexperienced counseled. We are to weep with those that weep, and rejoice with those that rejoice.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, p. 143.

As we have seen, these two kingdom actions—justice and evangelism— were closely entwined, not only in Jesus’ ministry but in Jesus’ first commission to His disciples: “ ‘As you go, proclaim this message: “The kingdom of heaven has come near.” Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse those who have leprosy, drive out demons. Freely you have received; freely give’ ” (Matt. 10:7, 8, NIV). In short, one of the best ways to reach others with our message is to minister to their needs.

`Read 1 Peter 2:12 and Philippians 2:15. What do Peter and Paul say about the witnessing power of good works done by God’s people? _`

With a broader understanding of God’s good news, evangelism does not make sense in the absence of a passion for people. Verses such as 1 John 3:16–18 and James 2:16 emphasize the contradiction in preaching the gospel without living it out. At its best, evangelism—bringing the good news of hope, rescue, repentance, transformation, and God’s all-embracing love—is an expression of justice.

Both evangelism and the desire for justice spring from recognizing God’s love for lost, broken, and hurt people—a love also that grows in our hearts under the influence of God in our lives. We don’t choose one action or another; instead, we work with God in working with people, meeting their real needs, and using whatever resources God has entrusted us with.

`How can we make sure, though, that as we do good works for others, we don’t neglect preaching the good news of salvation, as well?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Lord wants His people to follow other methods than that of condemning wrong, even though the condemnation be just. He wants us to do something more than to hurl at our adversaries charges that only drive them further from the truth. The work which Christ came to do in our world was not to erect barriers and constantly thrust upon the people the fact that they were wrong.  

He who expects to enlighten a deceived people must come near to them and labor for them in love. He must become a center of holy influence.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 6, pp. 121, 122.

It is the privilege of the Christian to connect with the Source of light, and through this living connection become the light of the world. Christ’s true followers will walk in the light as He is in the light and therefore they will not travel in an uncertain way, stumbling because they walk in darkness. . . . As the light of the sun is light and life and blessing to all that live, so should Christians, by their good works, by their cheerfulness and courage, be the light of the world. As the light of the sun chases away the shades of night and pours its glories on valleys and hills, so will the Christians reflect the Sun of Righteousness which shines on him. 

Before the consistent lives of Christ’s true followers, ignorance, superstition, and darkness will pass away, as the sun dispels the gloom of night. In like manner the disciples of Jesus will go into the dark places of the earth, disseminating the light of truth until the pathway of those in darkness shall be illuminated by the light of truth.—_This Day With God_, p. 92.

Those who gather the sunshine of Christ’s righteousness, and refuse to let it shine into the lives of others, will soon lose the sweet, bright rays of heavenly grace, selfishly reserved to be lavished upon a few. . . . Self should not be allowed to gather to itself a select few, giving nothing to those who need help the most. Our love is not to be sealed up for special ones. Break the bottle, and the fragrance will fill the house.—_My Life Today_, p. 80.

From every Christian home a holy light should shine forth. Love should be revealed in action. It should flow out in all home [relationships], showing itself in thoughtful kindness, in gentle, unselfish courtesy. There are homes where this principle is carried out—homes where God is worshiped, and truest love reigns. From these homes, morning and evening prayer ascends to God as sweet incense, and His mercies and blessings descend upon the suppliants like the morning dew. . . . All can see that there is an influence at work in the family that affects the children, and that the God of Abraham is with them. If the homes of professed Christians had a right religious mold, they would exert a mighty influence for good. They would indeed be the “light of the world.”  

He who lives Christianity in the home will be a bright and shining light everywhere.—_The Faith I Live By_, p. 278.