---
title:  Further Thought
date:  27/09/2019
---

Further Thought: Read Ellen G. White, “A Faithful Witness,” pp. 546–556, in The Acts of the Apostles; “Kindness the Key to Hearts,” pp. 81–86, in Welfare Ministry. “The work which the disciples did, we also are to do. Every Christian is to be a missionary. In sympathy and compassion we are to minister to those in need of help, seeking with unselfish earnestness to lighten the woes of suffering humanity. . . .

“We are to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, and comfort the suffering and afflicted. We are to minister to the despairing, and to inspire hope in the hopeless.

“The love of Christ, manifested in unselfish ministry, will be more effective in reforming the evildoer than will the sword or the court of justice. . . . Often the heart that hardens under reproof will melt under the love of Christ.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pp. 104, 106.

“Slavery, the caste system, unjust racial prejudices, the oppression of the poor, the neglect of the unfortunate,—these all are set forth as unchristian and a serious menace to the well-being of the human race, and as evils which the church of Christ is appointed by her Lord to overthrow.”—General Conference president A. G. Daniells, speaking of the work of Ellen G. White at her funeral, in Life Sketches of Ellen G. White, p. 473. Discussion Questions:

`There are many people, groups, and organizations seeking to relieve need in the world. What unique strengths, insights, and resources can the Seventh-day Adventist Church bring to this task?`

`Can you remember a time you felt encouraged and supported by your church community? Learning from that experience, how can you extend that same encouragement to others?`

`As well as the support of a church community, what other things can help you avoid becoming “weary in doing good”?`

`What are some of the justice and poverty projects and initiatives you are aware of that the Seventh-day Adventist Church around the world is currently supporting? How might you be able to contribute to this aspect of the church’s work?`

Summary: Yes, as Christians, we are called to minster to the needs of others, especially others who are hurting, suffering, and oppressed. And though we have our individual responsibilities in this area, as a community focused on ministering to others, we can be much more effective working together as a church family.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Acts of the Apostles_, “A Faithful Witness,” pp. 546–556. 