---
title:  Our Work for God
date:   29/08/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
2 Corinthians 3:1–9; 2 Corinthians 4:7–18; 2 Corinthians 5:11–15.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “We have much trouble, but we do not give up. We are in hard places [trouble], but help always comes. People trouble [bother] us, but God is always with us. We are beaten, but we are not killed. We always feel as if our body is dying, just as Jesus died. Then the life of Jesus also can be seen in our body” (2 Corinthians 4:8–10, WE).

This week, we will look at 2 Corinthians 3–7. In these chapters, Paul talks about his work to win people to Jesus. Ellen G. White says, “What is the strongest proof that God chose someone to serve Him and preach the Good News about Jesus? The answer is the changed lives of the sinners that the pastor leads to Jesus. God makes the hearts and minds of these sinners holy. We see their new lives. Jesus lives within their hearts and minds. That’s how we know that God chose someone to serve Him and to be a leader and a teacher. When Jesus lives in our hearts and minds, we will have hope. Our hope is that we will live in glory with Jesus after He comes back again. [What is this glory? Jesus will give us new bodies that can’t get sick. He will give us everlasting life. We will live with Him forever.] So, when a pastor sees that his preaching is changing lives, his faith is made strong. The changed lives of these people are proof that God chose the pastor to serve Him.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 328, adapted.