---
title:  ‘Living Letters’ From Jesus
date:   30/08/2026
---

`In what way can we be the same as a letter from Jesus? Read 2 Corinthians 3:1–9 for the answer.`

In New Testament times, important people wrote letters of praise for others. These letters helped the people they wrote about to get promoted. The letters helped other leaders to trust and support these workers. Paul didn’t have any of these letters. The changed lives of the Corinthians were proof that God gave Paul his work. At the same time, Paul knew that his efforts and skill didn’t grow the church (2 Corinthians 3:4–6). God was the reason for the church’s success. So, Paul refused to brag about his efforts (2 Corinthians 3:5; 1 Corinthians 2:2).

Paul uses the examples of the two promises to talk about his work: the old promise and the new promise. The old promise came from God who gave it to Moses to give to Israel. Paul and his friends taught the people about the new promise that God made to His people. We may think that the old promise gave God’s people no hope of being saved. That is false. God offered His saving love to people in both the Old Testament and the New Testament. The Old Testament showed the Good News before it happened. “The Bible already said what would happen at a future time. It said that God would make the Gentiles [non-Jews] right with himself, if they believed in him. God showed this good news to Abraham a long time before it happened. He [God] said to Abraham, ‘I will bless people from all countries because of you’ ” (Galatians 3:8, EASY).

In 2 Corinthians 3:1–4:6, we learn that the old promise is a symbol for the experience of people who depended on their own good behavior to save them. They tried to earn God’s favor with their obedience. The new promise is a symbol for the experience of people who trust completely God’s love and forgiveness. They depend on God to do everything He promised to do for them and in them.

As we can see, Paul is talking about two different experiences. He is not talking about two different messages about the Good News. God made one plan to save us. There is only one Good News. Paul says, God “did not save us because of any good things that we have done. He chose to do it [save us] because he is very kind. He decided to do that before time began, because of what Christ Jesus would do for us” (2 Timothy 1:9, EASY).