---
title:  Suffering For Jesus
date:   31/08/2026
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 4:7–18. Make a list of Paul’s sufferings in these verses. How did Paul live through these terrible experiences?`

Hundreds of years ago in Old Bohemia, John Huss wrote, “Jesus is Master of this earth. We are sinners who live and die. But Jesus suffered for us! Why should we not suffer, too? God uses our suffering to make us clean from sin.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 105, adapted.

Paul was willing to suffer for Jesus. Paul knew he was the same as a pot made from clay that could break (2 Corinthians 4:7). At times, Paul felt hurt and confused about what to do. He got knocked down. He was hurt. But he did not lose hope. He didn’t let his sufferings destroy his faith. He didn’t believe that God left him alone (2 Corinthians 4:8, 9). Paul said, “We always feel as if our body is dying, just as Jesus died. Then the life of Jesus also can be seen in our body” (2 Corinthians 4:10, WE; also read verse 11).

What does Paul mean when he writes “just as Jesus died”? Paul may mean his sufferings in verses 8 and 9. Or he also may be talking about his understanding that he needed to die to self every moment, as Jesus died. The words “life of Jesus” may mean Paul’s escape from death. Or these words may mean the spiritual strength God gives us to win the fight against sin in this life. For sure, the words “life of Jesus” talk about the resurrection. As we already saw, the resurrection is the time when God’s people wake up from the dead at the Second Coming (2 Corinthians 4:12).

In 2 Corinthians 4:7–18, we read that God uses us to preach the Good News. We are weak. So, the praise for our success goes to God, and not us (2 Corinthians 4:15). Often, Bible workers suffer in their work for God. We may suffer much in this life. But our suffering is only for a short time compared with the everlasting reward that God will give us (2 Corinthians 4:17). “The things that we can see are only here for a short time. But the things that we cannot see will continue for ever” (2 Corinthians 4:18, EASY; also read 2 Corinthians 5:7).

`Why must we always keep the hope of the resurrection alive in our hearts (1 Corinthians 15:52)?`