---
title:  Working With Jesus to Bring Sinners Back to God
date:   01/09/2026
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:11–15. How do these verses show us that Paul’s work for God is all about Jesus?`

Paul says, “We know that the Lord will judge us, so we are careful to obey him. Because of that, we tell God’s message to people. We want them to believe in God. And God himself knows that we try to do what is right” (2 Corinthians 5:11, EASY; also read verse 10). That’s why Paul wants to obey God in everything. Paul loves Jesus and trusts in His love for him. So, Paul wants to serve the Lord with all his heart (Deuteronomy 10:12).

Paul’s work is all about Jesus, and not himself. Paul doesn’t praise himself. Paul brags about Jesus (2 Corinthians 12:9). Paul says, “But I do not want to say any great [good] things about myself. The only thing that makes me great is our Lord Jesus Christ’s death on the cross” (Galatians 6:14, EASY). Paul wants to give the Corinthians a good reason to brag about Him (2 Corinthians 5:12): “No, we are not praising ourselves again. But we are telling you this [our story] so that you may really be proud of [filled with pride for] us. Then you will be ready to answer people who are proud of themselves [filled with pride about their own selves]” (2 Corinthians 5:12, WE). These people who are filled with pride are false teachers. They don’t really care about people as Paul does.

`Paul says he is a messenger for Jesus. What is his message all about? Read 2 Corinthians 5:16–21; Colossians 1:19–23; and Ephesians 2:13–16.`

Paul’s message is: “ ‘Come back to God!’ ” (2 Corinthians 5:20, EASY). Again and again, Paul preaches this idea in 2 Corinthians 5:16–21. God accepts us because Jesus died for us on the cross. When we belong to Jesus, God makes us new people (2 Corinthians 5:17). God expects us to join Jesus in His work to bring sinners back to God. We must announce the Good News about Jesus to everyone (2 Corinthians 5:19). When we do this work, we become “messengers for Christ [Jesus]” (2 Corinthians 5:20, WE).

`How does Jesus’ love for you help you to share Him with people who don’t know God?`