---
title:  God Wants Us to Be Holy
date:   02/09/2026
---

As we saw yesterday, Paul tells church members in Corinth to come back to God. Then Paul asks them to live a holy life. How? Paul gives us the answer: we must separate ourselves from people and things that separate us from God.

`What does it mean to live a holy life? Read 2 Corinthians 6:11–7:1 for the answer.`

In 2 Corinthians 6:11–7:1, Paul talks about love. Church members must love each other as brothers and sisters (1 Corinthians 6:11–13). They show that they are one with God when they try hard to be at peace with each other.

Next, Paul warns church members not to separate from God. Paul then gives church members six rules. These rules will help church members to stay near to God in their hearts. (1) “Do not be joined together with those who do not belong to Christ [the Savior]” (2 Corinthians 6:14, NLV). (2) “So come away from those people” (2 Corinthians 6:17, ERV). (3) “Separate yourselves from them” (2 Corinthians 6:17, ERV). (4) “Don’t touch anything that is not clean” (2 Corinthians 6:17, ERV). (5) “We must keep ourselves clean from everything that makes our bodies or our spirits unclean [not clean; dirty]” (2 Corinthians 7:1, EASY). (6) “We should try to be altogether [fully] holy because we respect God” (2 Corinthians 7:1, WE). These rules show us that a holy God wants us to live holy lives. We also must separate from false gods.

In 2 Corinthians 6:11–7:1, you also will see seven promises. These promises show God’s plan for the church to be the same as a holy temple. (1) God will live in us, the same as a temple. (2) God will walk with us. (3) God will be our God. (4) We shall be His people. (5) God will accept us. (6) God will be a Father to us. (7) We shall be God’s sons and daughters. (Read 2 Corinthians 6:16, 17, 18.)

Do you see the first four promises? When we allow God to do these things for us, He can accept us. Then He will be our Father, and He will make us His children. This shows us that a holy life is a gift. It is the work of the Holy Spirit in the heart. A holy life is not something we do. But God expects us to do our part and say no to sin.

`What do God’s promises in 2 Corinthians 6:16–18 tell us about what it means to be holy?`