---
title:  Hope and Joy
date:   03/09/2026
---

`How does Paul feel when he learns that the Corinthians were sorry for their behavior? Read 2 Corinthians 7 for the answer.`

Paul tells the Corinthians that his heart is filled with love for them (2 Corinthians 7:3, ERV; also read 2 Corinthians 6:11). Paul also asks the Corinthians to love him (2 Corinthians 7:2).

The Corinthians loved Paul and his friends. That’s why Paul feels so much joy in verse 4. Paul’s words show the happiness in his heart: “I know you and I trust you. I am proud of you. You have helped me to be strong. So, even when we have many troubles, I am still [continue to be] very happy” (2 Corinthians 7:4, EASY). Paul is filled with hope and joy. We can help our pastors to feel hope and joy, too, when we give our hearts completely to Jesus.

In 2 Corinthians 7:5–16, Paul explains some more about his reason for his hope and joy. These two ideas fill these verses. This part of the letter ends the same way it started: with hope in God (2 Corinthians 1:3–7). Paul’s kind words in 2 Corinthians 7 comes from the happiness he feels. His painful letter to the Corinthians helped them.

Titus gives Paul the good news about his letter. But God is the real reason for Paul’s hope and joy (2 Corinthians 7:6). That’s why Paul says that God “helps us every time we have trouble” (2 Corinthians 1:3, WE; also read verse 4).

Yes, Paul’s painful letter caused the Corinthians to feel very sad. But God used that letter to help the Corinthians to feel sorry for their sins and stop doing them (2 Corinthians 7:9–11). When the Corinthians started to feel sad about their sins, that was part of God’s plan (2 Corinthians 7:11) to help them to stop sinning. God uses our sad and painful experiences to help save us (2 Corinthians 7:10). This news brings much joy to the heart of God’s servants.

`Did you do something against the Lord in the past that made you feel deeply sorry? How did this experience help you to stop sinning and come back to God?`