---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   04/09/2026
---

Re-read Ellen G. White, “The Message Heeded,” pages 323–334, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“We must show everyone in heaven and on earth that God is forgiving. We must show that God loves us. He brings us back to Himself with His love. We feel sorry in our hearts for our sins. We stop sinning and come back to God. We believe that Jesus died for our sins. We understand that God accepts us because of Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, Special Testimonies on Education, page 223, adapted.

“As a church, God gave us much Bible truth. These truths are very important. God gave us this Bible truth to help bless the human family. God gave us this message to share with everyone on earth: Come back to God. God gives us His strength to help other people come back to Him.”
—Ellen G. White, Letter 32, 1903, adapted.

When we come back to God, what must we do? We must live holy lives. Ellen G. White talks about this topic. She explains what Paul meant when he said, “We should try to be altogether [completely] holy because we respect God with fear [obedience]” (2 Corinthians 7:1, WE). Ellen
G. White says that Paul “wanted to help the new Christians in Corinth to grow in faith and to become strong. Paul ­wanted them to have deep love in their hearts for God. Paul wanted them to live completely for Jesus and to build up His kingdom.”—The Acts of the Apostles, page 201, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Paul says we are the same as pots made from clay. In these pots is a treasure from heaven. This treasure is the Good News about Jesus (2 Corinthians 4:7). For sure, clay pots can break. But how can our weakness show the Bible truth about the Good News?`

`What does it mean to become a new person in Jesus (2 Corinthians 5:17)? How does this new life change the way we live each day? How did Jesus make you a new person?`

`In 2 Corinthians 6:4, 5, Paul gives a long list of his painful experiences of suffering for the Good News. What does Paul think and feel about his sufferings (read 2 Corinthians 6:6, 7)? How does Paul’s answer help you with your own suffering?`