---
title:  The Two Witnesses
date:   04/05/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Revelation 11:3–6; Revelation 11:3; The Great Controversy, chapters 12–17.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The grass dies, and the flowers fall. But the word of our God will live forever” (Isaiah 40:8, ICB).

The church in the Middle Ages attacked loyal Christians. But God’s enemies couldn’t stop His people from sharing Bible truth. One of these brave Christians was William Tyndale. Tyndale translated the Bible into English. God’s enemies put Tyndale on trial for his faith. During the trial, one of the judges asked Tyndale who helped him the most to share Bible truth. Tyndale thought about the question. Then he said, “The Bishop of Durham.” The Bishop was the head of the church in the English city of Durham. Tyndale’s answer shocked the judges.

Tyndale explained that the bishop bought a large amount of Tyndale’s Bibles and burned them in public. The Catholic bishop didn’t know how much his buying the Bibles helped the Protestants. You see, the bishop bought the Bibles for a very high price. With the extra money Tyndale earned, he printed far more Bibles than the bishop burned.

This week, we will study what happened to the Bible during the French Revolution. During this time, much blood was spilled in the streets of France. The guillotine was put in Paris’s public square. The guillotine is a special razor that chops off people’s heads. Thousands of people were killed. The French also announced that God was dead. But France could not destroy the Bible or its message.