---
title:  Two Witnesses
date:   05/05/2024
---

`Read Revelation 11:3–6. List five things about the two witnesses that you discover in these verses.`

In Zechariah 4, Zechariah saw two olive trees. The trees stood next to a gold lampstand. One tree stood to the right of the lampstand. The other tree stood to the left side of the lampstand. We find this same word picture in Revelation 11. Zechariah learns that the two olive trees “ ‘stand for two men. They have been appointed [chosen] to serve the Lord of all the earth’ ” (Zechariah 4:14, ICB). The olive trees drip oil into the lampstand so that it always shines with light. This idea helps us remember Psalm 119:105. In this verse, the poet compares the Bible to a lamp. He writes, “Your word is like [the same as] a lamp that shows me the way. It is like a light that guides me” (NIrV). Oil is a word picture for the Holy Spirit (Zechariah 4:2, 6). In Revelation 11, God’s two witnesses fill the whole earth with truth, the same as a lamp fills a room with light.

God’s two witnesses can warn us about things that will happen in the future. God’s two witnesses can keep rain from falling. They can turn water to blood. They can fill the earth with disease and trouble. Elijah spoke for God to Israel. Elijah said no rain would fall on Israel. In answer to his prayer, no rain fell for 3½ years (James 5:17). The special messengers who served the god Baal could not make it rain (1 Kings 17, 18). Then Elijah prayed to God, and the rain came. Moses also spoke for God. God used Moses in a powerful way. Moses caused much trouble and disease in Egypt. Moses turned the water to blood because Pharoah refused to let God’s people go free (Exodus 7).

Anyone who attacks and destroys the Bible will be destroyed with fire. God announces to His messenger Jeremiah: “ ‘So, Jeremiah, the words I give you will be like [the same as] fire. And these people will be like wood the fire burns up’ ” (Jeremiah 5:14, ICB). The Bible warns that anyone who rejects its sayings will be destroyed with fire. That’s why Bible truth is the same as fire in the mouth of God’s special messengers and witnesses.

So, who are these two powerful witnesses of Revelation 11? They are the Old and New Testaments. They communicate God’s truth to everyone on earth.