---
title:  1,260 Days
date:   06/05/2024
---

`Compare Revelation 11:3 and Revelation 12:5, 6, 14, 15 with Daniel 7:25. These verses use different numbers to talk about the same time in history. What same time in history are all of these verses talking about?`

God gives strength to His two witnesses to “tell what they know. They will speak for God for 1,260 days (42 months). They will be dressed in clothes made from the hair of animals [rough clothes people wear to show they are sad]” (Revelation 11:3, NLV). The 1,260 days are the same as 42 months. During this time, God will give control of Jerusalem “to the nations [people groups] who do not know God. They will walk over all the Holy City to wreck it for 42 months” (Revelation 11:2. NLV). The nations are God’s enemies. They try to destroy Bible truth for 1,260 days (42 months x 30 days in a Jewish month = 1,260 days, or years. Each day in end-time messages equals one real year). As we saw yesterday, God’s two witnesses are the Old and New Testaments. These two witnesses announce God’s anger against the ones who try to destroy Bible truth.

As we learned in lesson 4, Daniel 7:25 says the little-horn power will become strong after the Kingdom of Rome breaks up. The little horn power will hurt God’s people “for a time, times, and half a time (three and a half years)” (Daniel 7:25, NLV). A “time” is one real year (360 days), and “times” means “two times” or two real years. So, three and a half times or years equals 1,260 days, which is the same as 1,260 real years.

Revelation 12:6, 13 says that God’s people will be hurt for 1,260 days. Revelation 12:14 talks about a time, times, and half a time (or 3½ years). Revelation 13:5 talks about 42 months. Do you see that Revelation 11:2, 3 talks about both the 42 months and the 1,260 days? All these special time messages talk in different ways about the same time in history.

From A.D. 538 to A.D. 1798, the Roman Catholic Church attacked anyone who honored Bible truth. During this time, the church replaced God’s commandments with its own teachings. During these 1,260 years, God’s two witnesses (the Old and New Testaments) are compared to people who wear clothes that show they are sad. These clothes help us to see that the Protestants who believed in Bible truth suffered deeply for their faith during the 1,260 years.