---
title:  The Two Witnesses Are Killed
date:   07/05/2024
---

`Read Revelation 11:7–9. What do these verses say will happen to God’s two witnesses, the Old and New Testaments?`

In A.D. 538, the Kingdom of Rome lost its power. The king of Rome at the time was Justinian. Justinian gave control to Pope Vigilius. The church controlled both religion and governments for a long time. Then, on February 10, 1798, Napoleon ordered General Berthier to march into Rome. Berthier made Pope Pius the 6th a prisoner. Berthier brought Pope Pius to France, where he died. The books of Daniel and Revelation said the church’s control would end after 1,260 days or real years. History shows us that is what happened. For sure, we can trust the Bible!

After 1798, a new enemy attacked the Bible. This enemy was the wild beast power that came from the hole with no bottom. This power fought against Bible truth during the French Revolution, which started in 1789. Who was this power? The power is a symbol for the teaching that there is no God. This belief started during the French Revolution.

During the French Revolution, the government replaced Christianity with the worship of human ideas. Another name for human ideas is reason. So, the French worshiped reason the same as a god. France celebrated the Festival of Reason on November 10, 1793. Churches across France were turned into Reason’s temples. A woman was chosen to be the living symbol of the god. The French people burned Bibles in the streets. The leaders said there was no God. Satan used evil men to “kill” God’s two witnesses. The Bible says, “Their dead bodies will lie in the street of Jerusalem. It is where their Lord was nailed to a cross. The city is sometimes called Sodom and Egypt” (Revelation 11:8, NLV).

Why Sodom and Egypt? Egypt worshiped many gods but rejected the God of heaven (Exodus 5:2). Sodom is a symbol for terrible evil. During the French Revolution, the leaders ‘killed’ God’s two witnesses with their laws against religion. So, France behaved the same as Sodom and Egypt. Revelation 11:9 says that no one buried God’s two witnesses for 3½ days (3½ real years). During the French Revolution, the French rejected God for about 3½ years, starting on November 26, 1793. On that day, laws were passed against religion. These laws continued until June 17, 1797. On that day, the government removed the laws.