---
title:  The Two Witnesses Wake Up From The Dead
date:   08/05/2024
---

`Read Revelation 11:11. What does this verse say would happen to the Bible?`

At the end of the French Revolution, the Bible “woke up” from the dead. Of course, this language is a word picture that shows us what happened to the Bible. After the French Revolution, people everywhere started to study the Bible. This study gave them new spiritual life. People saw that the Bible become powerful again in the lives of many men, women, and children. Then the people in France were filled with respect for the Bible. At the end of the 1700s, men and women traveled to faraway lands to share the Good News. One of these men was William Carey. Carey traveled to India. He translated the Bible into many Indian languages. Protestant churches sent Bible workers around the globe.

Bible truth entered many countries very quickly after the French Revolution. The success of Bible workers didn’t happen because of luck or chance. The Bible is the living Word of God. During the French Revolution, many people thought that Bible truth was “dead.” But the Bible continued living in the hearts of people. After the French Revolution, the Bible came back to life, just as Revelation 11:11 promised.

“Voltaire was a thinker who didn’t believe in God. Voltaire bragged, ‘I am tired of hearing people talk about how 12 men started the Christian religion. I will prove that one man is enough to destroy it.’ Many years have passed since Voltaire died. Millions of people have joined in the war against the Bible. But have they destroyed the Bible? No. Maybe there were only a hundred Bibles in Voltaire’s time. But now there are 10,000, yes, 100,000 copies of the Bible.’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 288, adapted.

`Read Psalm 119:89 and Psalm 111:7, 8. What do these verses tell us about the Bible? Why can we trust it?`

People may attack Bible truth. They may try to stop other people from believing it. But the Bible will never be destroyed. Sad to say, many Christians today wonder if parts of the Bible are true. We must not let these false ideas about the Bible trick us. The Bible is “alive” today. The Bible talks to human hearts. It gives new life to people who will follow its teachings.