---
title:  God’s Truth Wins!
date:   09/05/2024
---

Revelation 11 starts with Satan’s plan to use the French Revolution to destroy the Christian faith and belief in God. Revelation 11 ends with God’s kingdom winning the fight against Satan and his evil angels. This chapter gives hope to everyone who suffers for Jesus and Bible truth.

`What happens at the end of time when the 7th angel blows his trumpet? Read Revelation 11:15–18 for the answer.`

At the end of time, Jesus wins. Satan loses. All the kingdoms on this earth are given to Jesus. We should remember this Bible truth and follow this helpful advice: “Every law or rule that men make will be destroyed. But Bible truth will continue forever.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 288, adapted.

`Read Revelation 11:19. John saw something that was opened in heaven. What was it? Also, what else did John see in it when he looked up into heaven?`

John saw the temple of God in heaven. The temple was open. John saw inside the Most Holy Place. There, John saw the Ark of God’s Promise. In Old Testament times, the holy tent and the temple in Jerusalem were copies of the temple in heaven. God’s light shone between two gold angels that were on top of the cover on the Ark of God’s Promise. The light was a sign that God was in the tent or the temple. Inside the ark was God’s law. We know that keeping God’s law doesn’t save us. Only God’s mercy saves us because of our faith in Jesus. At the same time, our obedience to God’s law shows that our faith is real. God’s law will judge us (James 2:12). This Bible truth is very important for us to understand in the end times (Revelation 12:17; Revelation 14:12).

`Compare the French Revolution with the picture of the end of time in Revelation 11. How are they different? What lessons does Revelation 11 have for us today?`