---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   10/05/2024
---

“The church and the government outlawed the Bible. Church leaders changed its teachings. Men and demons worked together to keep people from learning Bible truth. God’s enemies hunted the ones who were brave enough to announce Bible truth. These brave souls were hurt, put into prison, or killed for their faith. Some of these Protestants were forced to run to the mountains for safety. They hid in caves and in holes in the earth. At this time, God’s two witnesses preached in clothes that people wear to show they are sad. [This word picture shows us that God’s loyal followers continued to share Bible truth during hard times.] God’s two witnesses continued to preach for 1,260 years. In the worst times, God had servants who loved Him and the Bible. God gave these loyal servants wisdom and strength to announce His truth during this time.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 267, 268, adapted.

“France rejected God and outlawed the Bible. Evil men and demons celebrated. They finally got what they wanted after so long: a kingdom free from God’s law. . . . God removed much of His Holy Spirit. God’s Spirit keeps Satan from doing terrible things. Satan’s only joy is in destroying human life. God allowed Satan to do his work. Many people in France chose to serve Satan and fight against God. When God removed His Spirit, they suffered many evil things because of their choice. The land filled with crimes that are too awful to write about. Towns and cities were ruined. The people of France cried out in pain as if an earthquake shook their whole country. The leaders did not believe in God or His law. They outlawed religion. They did not respect the law, the family, government, or the church.”—The Great Controversy, page 286, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What does the French Revolution teach us about the worldwide war between good and evil?`

`Someone wrote: “We are free to make our own rules.” How does this idea help explain why some people reject God? How does this idea also help explain some things that happened in the French Revolution?`

`In the Book of Revelation, John saw the temple in heaven. How does the temple in John’s dream help us understand things that will happen in the end times?`