---
title:  Understanding What Jesus Did for Us
date:   03/05/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Isaiah 1:2–15; Hebrews 10:3–10; Exodus 12:1–11; Haggai 2:7–9; Revelation 4:7–11.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “And they all sang a new song to the Lamb: ‘You are worthy to take the scroll [rolled up book] and to open its seals [locks], because you were killed, and with your blood sacrifice [offering] you bought people for God from every tribe [family group], language, race [group] of people, and nation [country]’ ” (Revelation 5:9, ERV).

When Jesus came to John the Baptist, John announced: “ ‘Look, the Lamb of God. He takes away [removes] the sins of the world [people everywhere]!’ ” (John 1:29, ERV). John’s words helped the people remember the idea of animal offerings. The Jewish priests or spiritual leaders offered these animals to God for the sins of the people. The Jewish priests killed the animals as offerings to God. The dead animals showed the work Jesus came to do on the cross for everyone.

Animal offerings are an important part of the Bible’s teachings. Animal offerings are an important part of the book of Revelation, too. We see this Bible truth when John visits God’s throne room in heaven (Revelation 4 and 5). There, John sees Jesus. To John, Jesus looks the same as a dead lamb (Revelation 5:6). This word picture helps us understand Jesus’ work for us in Revelation 4 and 5.

This week, we will look at animal offerings in the Bible and what they teach us about Jesus. Jesus was God’s Lamb who was killed for our sins.