---
title:  Useless Offerings?
date:   04/05/2025
---

Sometimes comparing two ideas can help us understand a topic better. We can learn a lot about the offerings in the Bible that God accepted when we study the offerings that God rejected.

`Compare Isaiah 1:2–15 with Isaiah 56:6, 7 and Psalm 51:17. What important lessons about offerings do these verses teach us?`

These verses talk about an experience in Israel’s history when God rejected an offering. But this experience was not the first time that happened. Something much the same happened near the beginning of human history. God accepted Abel’s offering but rejected Cain’s. This story lets us compare offerings that God accepted with offerings that He rejected. (Read Genesis 4:3–7 and Hebrews 11:4.)

In Isaiah’s time, the Israelites did some of the things that they thought pleased God. At the same time, they also lived the way they pleased. Their offerings were selfish, just as Cain’s were. The Israelites didn’t give their lives to God or obey Him fully.

The same spirit fills the kingdoms on this earth today: people want to control their lives and don’t want God to be in charge. Cain lived as he pleased. He offered God the gifts that he wanted to give, and not the ones God asked for.

Abel gave God dead animals as offerings. The killed animal that Abel offered the Lord showed his faith in God’s promise to send a Savior, God’s Lamb. Abel’s offering showed the saving act of Jesus on the cross at Calvary.

“Abel understood the important rules about God’s saving plan. Abel saw himself as a sinner. He also understood the price for sin was death. Sin stood between Abel and his communication with God. Abel understood these Bible truths, so he gave His animal offering to God. In this way, Abel accepted that he broke God’s law. The animal’s spilled blood filled Abel with hope and helped him to look to Jesus’ future offering on the cross. Abel trusted in Jesus’ future offering. God announced that Abel was holy and accepted his offering.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 72, adapted.