---
title:  The Blood From Bulls and Goats
date:   05/05/2025
---

Some people say that the idea of offerings is mean, ugly, and not fair. Of course it’s not fair. Jesus’ death on the cross wasn’t fair. He, the innocent, died for the guilty. There’s nothing fair about that. But that’s what God needed to do to solve the sin problem. All those mean, ugly offerings that weren’t fair showed us Jesus’ future death on the cross.

`Read Hebrews 10:3–10. What do these verses teach us about the offerings that God’s people gave in the Old Testament? If these offerings didn’t save sinners, then why did the people offer them?`

The lambs and other animal offerings were word pictures. They showed the future death of Jesus for our sins. These animal offerings were acts of faith. The sinner gave them to show he had faith in the work of the coming Savior. Another name for these word pictures is types. When the real thing happens or appears, we name that the antitype. So, the Lamb is the type or word picture of the coming Savior. Jesus, the real Lamb, is the antitype.

The Old Testament offerings can be compared to paying for a trip. When you buy a train or bus ticket, you don’t get the trip you paid for right away. You get a ticket. The ticket is a symbol or word picture for the future trip. You can sit on that piece of paper or ticket all you want. But it won’t take you where you want to go. But when you get on the bus or the train, the trip starts. You get what you paid for. You don’t need the paper ticket anymore.

In the same way, animal offerings were important. But when Jesus, the real Lamb, died for our sins, the offerings were useless. That’s why the curtain between the Holy Room and the Most Holy Room was torn in half, from top to bottom (Mark 15:38). All the animal offerings showed the future death of Jesus on the cross. When Jesus died on the cross and woke up from the dead, the types or animal offerings were no longer needed.

`Think about how bad sin must be if only the death of Jesus can pay for it. Jesus is the living Word of God (read John 1:1–3, 14). What should this idea tell us about how bad sin is?`