---
title:  Jesus, the Lamb of God
date:   06/05/2025
---

The book of Revelation says that Jesus is the Lamb almost 30 times. From earliest times, God’s people used lambs as symbols of the coming Savior. Abel offered God the animal born first in his flock (Genesis 4:4). Before the Israelites left Egypt, God commanded them to buy back every person or animal that was born first. How much did this cost? The price was a one-year old lamb (Exodus 12:5).

`Read Exodus 12:1–11; Isaiah 53:7, 8; 1 Corinthians 5:7; and Revelation 5:6. What do these verses teach us about Jesus, our Passover offering? Passover was the time when God helped His people escape slavery in Egypt. What does it mean that Jesus is our Passover offering?`

Years after Jesus died, woke up from the grave, and went to heaven, Peter wrote about what happened. He said, “You know that in the past you were living in a worthless [useless] way. You got that way of living from the people who lived before you. But you were saved from that useless life. You were bought, but not with something that ruins like [the same as] gold or silver. You were bought with the precious blood of the death of Christ, who was like a pure [innocent; holy] and perfect lamb” (1 Peter 1:18, 19, ICB).

Jesus lived a perfect, holy life. God accepted this life as an offering for our sins.

Jesus became the last Adam (1 Corinthians 15:45). Where we failed, Jesus lived a perfect life. Jesus was everything we were meant to be. Jesus showed us God’s perfect glory. That’s why Jesus told Philip, “ ‘Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father’ ” (John 14:9, NIrV).

Jesus was nailed to the cross on Passover. Jesus’ death showed that He was the real Lamb that all the animal offerings in the past promised. In John 18:20, Jesus said, “ ‘I have spoken openly to everyone. I have always taught in synagogues [Jewish church] and in the Temple, where all the Jews come together. I never said anything in secret’ ” (ICB). In the same way, the Israelites chose a lamb for Passover and kept it or put it where people could see it before it was killed. When the Jewish priests or spiritual leaders asked Jesus about His teachings, Jesus said that He showed Himself in public in the temple for everyone to see. Jesus’ life, His works, and His teachings all showed that He was God’s perfect Lamb.