---
title:  Jesus at the Temple
date:   07/05/2025
---

God wants to communicate with us the way that He did in the past before Adam and Eve sinned. God wants to be close to us in His heart. But if God allowed sinners to come be with Him, His shining glory would destroy them. That’s why David says, “For you, God, aren’t happy with anything that is evil. Those [people] who do what is wrong can’t live where you are” (Psalm 5:4, NIrV). At the same time, David also writes, “Because of your great [amazing] love, I can come into your Temple. Because I fear and respect you, I can worship in your holy Temple” (Psalm 5:7, ICB).

`Read Haggai 2:7–9. As the second temple was being built, God’s special messenger Haggai made a surprising promise: the new temple would be more wonderful than the last one. What did Haggai mean?`

After Solomon built the first temple, God’s glory filled the temple. The priests or spiritual leaders couldn’t stay in the temple to finish their work. They needed to leave (1 Kings 8:10, 11). After the second temple was built, God didn’t fill the temple with His glory. That’s because the ark of God’s promise was missing from the temple. The ark was a symbol of God’s throne. God’s servants hid the ark in a cave before the first temple was destroyed. So, the Jews were sad. How, then, could Haggai’s promise come true?

Haggai’s promise happened when Jesus, who was God in a human body, came in Person to the temple. Jesus became one of us and joined us in living on this sin-filled earth. Jesus, the Son of God, became the Son of man. People saw His face. They heard His voice. They saw Him touch the leper and make him clean (Matthew 8:3). A leper was a person with a terrible skin disease. God didn’t bring us closer to Him. God came down to us in person. No wonder the Bible says about Jesus: “The young woman, who has never had a man, will give birth to a Son. They will give Him the name Immanuel. This means God with us” (Matthew 1:23, NLV). Think about what “God with us” really means. The God who made heaven made Himself small as a man to live with us on this earth. Then He died for us.

`The Cross is the most powerful example of God’s love. What other things show us God’s love?`