---
title:  You Made Everything!
date:   08/05/2025
---

A handful of prophets or special messengers were allowed to see God on His throne. Ezekiel saw God’s throne above the sky (Ezekiel 1:26). In a dream, Isaiah visited the temple in heaven to see God’s throne (Isaiah 6:1). In the book of Revelation, John was taken in a dream to heaven (Revelation 4 and 5). The Old Testament types or symbols showed that God made one path for us to Him: the blood of Jesus. (Read Leviticus 16:2–14.)

`Read about the dreams that Isaiah and John had in Isaiah 6:1–5 and Revelation 4:7–11. How are these two dreams the same? Pay attention to what happens first. What comes next? What Bible truth do these dreams teach us about God?`

In each of these dreams about God’s temple in heaven, the first thing that happens is that people from heaven say that God is very holy. In Isaiah’s dream, the temple is filled with smoke. The door posts shake when angels announce that God is holy. In John’s dream, the angels make the same announcement, “ ‘Holy, holy, holy’ ” (Revelation 4:8, ERV). (Also read Ezekiel 10:14, 15, which talks about the living things that are much the same as angels.) Both John and Isaiah saw an amazing scene of God’s glory.

Then we see what each prophet says and does after He sees God’s glory. Isaiah says that he is not clean enough to talk to God (Isaiah 6:5). John cries because no one can be found who is worthy to open the locked book (Revelation 5:4). When we remember that God is holy, we start to understand our problem: we are worthless. We need Jesus to save us.

Satan accuses God of many terrible things. Satan says that God is selfish and mean. But John and Isaiah’s dreams show us that Satan’s words are lies. We must see Jesus as the Lamb who was killed for our sins (Revelation 5:12). When we do, we will see the Father as He really is: a God of love. This understanding will give us hope. Jesus shows us who the Father really is (John 14:9). The most powerful example of God’s love is Jesus’ death for us on the cross.

The cross shows us two things: first, God loves us so much that He sent Jesus to die for us. Second, the cross shows us that we are sinners. God saves us only because Jesus died on the cross.