---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   09/05/2025
---

The Bible says that Jesus is the only One who is worthy enough to save us. He is the only person who lived without sin. Jesus is the Lamb of God. Now He goes to God to save us. Jesus accepted the punishment for our sins. He paid the price for our breaking God’s law. John is told to stop crying because “ ‘the Lion [Jesus] from the tribe [family group] of Judah has won’ ” (Revelation 5:5, ERV).

Also, think about sin. Sin is very bad, isn’t it? Humans are terrible sinners in need of a Savior. That’s why only the death of Jesus, who is God, could solve the sin problem. For sure, if God could save us some other way, He would do it.

“People broke God’s law. The sinner must die for breaking the law. In all of heaven and on earth, only one person could make things right again. The law is as holy as God is holy. So only someone who was the same as God could make an offering for our sins against God. Only Jesus could save people from the punishment of the law and bring us back to God. Jesus accepted the guilt and shame of our sins. God hates sin so much. Sin separated the Father and His Son. Jesus suffered so much to save people from sin.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 63, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`John sees the Lamb enter the temple in heaven. The Lamb looks as if He was killed in the past. The Bible says, “The Lamb is the one whose death was planned before the world was created [made]” (Revelation 13:8, NIrV). So, the plan to save us was already ready before we needed it. What can we learn about God from this idea?`

`Many people believe that God doesn’t care about us. The Bible tells us something different. God loves us so much that He sent His Son to save us. Jesus died on the cross for us. How should the cross change our lives and everything we do?`

`What did it cost God to save us? What does the price tell us about how bad sin really must be?`