---
title:  He Died For Us
date:  29/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Revelation 13:8; Acts 2:23; 1 Peter 1:19, 20; Titus 1:2; Matthew 16:21–23; John 19:1–30; John 3:14–18; Romans 6:23; 1 Corinthians 1:18–24.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Moses lifted up a snake on a piece of wood in the desert. So the Son of Man must be lifted up. Then everyone who believes in him will not die, but will live for ever’ ” (John 3:14, 15, WE).

Sooner or later, we all die. The Bible teaches that evil people and saved people both end up in the same place. So, our hope in the resurrection is very important. As we know, the resurrection is the time when God will wake up His people from the dead at the Second Coming. If we do not hope in the resurrection, then we have no hope at all. As Paul said, if we don’t have hope that dead people will wake up, then the Christians who “died believing in Christ are also lost” (1 Corinthians 15:18, NIrV). This verse shows us that there are no spirits of dead people in heaven.

For sure, Jesus’ resurrection or waking up from the dead is important to our faith. His resurrection gives us proof that we will wake up from the dead, too. Before Jesus woke up from the dead, He had to die first, of course. This experience was terrible for Jesus. He suffered deeply in the Garden of Gethsemane before His death. That’s why He prayed, “ ‘Now My soul is troubled. Should I say, “Father, save Me from this time of trouble and pain”? No, this is why I came to this time’ ” (John 12:27, NLV).

This week we will look at Jesus’ death on the cross. How does His death promise us everlasting life?