---
title:  Before The Earth Was Made 
date:  30/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Revelation 13:8; Acts 2:23; and 1 Peter 1:19, 20. Why does John say that Jesus is the Lamb “whose death was planned before the world [the earth and everything in it] was created [made]” (Revelation 13:8, NIrV)?`

“Many people who live on the earth will worship the beast. They [the ones who worship the beast] are the ones whose names are not written in the Lamb’s book of life. The Lamb is the one whose death was planned before the world was created [made]” (Revelation 13:8, NIrV). What does this verse mean? We must remember that Revelation is a book that uses word pictures or symbols. Then we can understand what this verse means. We know that Jesus didn’t die on the cross until thousands of years after He made the earth. And this verse is saying that God made a plan to save humans before He made the earth. The most important part of that plan was Jesus’ death on the cross. Jesus is God’s Lamb.

`How long ago did God make the plan to save sinners? How does Titus 1:2 help us answer the question?`

“God didn’t make the plan to save humans at the last minute after Adam sinned. . . . God’s plan to save sinners showed the important rules that have always been a part of His government from the beginning of time.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 22, adapted.

God first showed His saving plan to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden (Genesis 3:15, 21). We see God’s saving plan in every animal that was killed and offered to God. We see an example of God’s saving plan in the test of faith that God gave Abraham. At the end of Abraham’s test, God sent a male sheep to be killed as a substitute for Isaac (Genesis 22:11–13). This substitute showed the future death of Jesus for our sins on the cross.

Jesus is our Substitute. He paid for our sins with His life. Every animal offering to God was a symbol or word picture of Jesus’ death as the “ ‘Lamb of God. He takes away the sins of the world!’ ” (John 1:29, ERV).

Animal offerings are bloody and ugly, yes. But why is the blood and the ugly death so important? That is, what does the innocent animal’s death teach us about Jesus’ death for us and the terrible price He paid to save us from sin?