---
title:  Born To Die 
date:  31/10/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

**How did Jesus’ followers feel when they heard Him announce that He was going to suffer and die? What do their feelings teach us about how we can misunderstand the Bible?**

`Matthew 16:21–23`

`Matthew 17:22, 23; Mark 9:30–32; Luke 9:44, 45`

`Luke 18:31–34`

Jesus was born to die. He lived to die. Jesus knew that God sent Him to die on the cross. So, Jesus didn’t let anyone, or anything, stop Him from doing His work. “Everything that happened to Jesus before His death was the same as an introduction written in the front of a book. This introduction helps the reader to get ready for the rest of the book. In the same way, Jesus’ whole life was all about getting Him ready for the cross.”—Ellen G. White, Fundamentals of Christian Education, page 382, adapted.

In the last year of Jesus’ work on earth, He explained to His followers that He was going to die. But His followers weren’t willing to accept His words. The followers believed false ideas about the Savior. Their false ideas caused them pain and suffering.

While Jesus was in Caesarea Philippi, He told His followers that “he must go to Jerusalem. There he must suffer many things. . . . He must be killed and on the third day rise to life again” (Matthew 16:21, NIrV). Later, Jesus walked in Galilee (Mark 9:30–32). During that trip and on His final trip to Jerusalem (Luke 18:31–34), Jesus told His followers again about His death. His followers didn’t want to hear this. So, they didn’t pay attention. It’s easy for us to not pay attention, too, right?

`God’s chosen people had false ideas about the Savior’s first coming. What are some of the false ideas that Christians today believe about the Second Coming?`