---
title:  “ ‘it Is Finished’ ” 
date:  01/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read in John 19:1–30 about Jesus’ death. In verse 30, Jesus says, “ ‘It is finished’ ” (John 19:30, ERV). Why are these words so important? What do they mean?`

John 19 tells us about the final hours of Jesus before He died on the cross. Jesus prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane. Then Jesus was dragged to court. He did not get a fair trial. Then Jesus went to the mountain of Calvary to die. Evil angels tried to make Jesus disobey God all night and all day. While Jesus hung on the cross, the religious leaders made fun of Him. “They said, ‘He saved others, but he can’t save himself! People say he is the king of Israel. If he is the king, he should come down now from the cross. Then we will believe in him’ ” (Matthew 27:42, ERV).

Did Jesus have the strength to come off the cross and save Himself? Yes. But Jesus did not try to save Himself. He cared more about saving humans. He loved humans so very much, including the men who made fun of Him while He died. “Jesus died to save the same men who laughed at Him while He hung on the cross. He died to save them. So, Jesus refused to come down from the cross and save Himself. The nails did not hold Jesus to the cross. Love for sinners held Jesus there.”—Alfred Plummer, An Exegetical Commentary on the Gospel According to Saint Matthew (London: Elliot Stock, 1910), page 397, adapted.

Jesus won the war against Satan and his kingdom. How? By His suffering. Satan caused the problems for Jesus that led Jesus to the cross. Satan himself led Judas to turn against Jesus (John 6:70; John 13:2, 27). “Satan causes Jesus’ death. At the same time, when Jesus dies, He wins the war against Satan.”—George E. Ladd, A Theology of the New Testament, revised edition (Cambridge, UK: Lutterworth Press, 1994), page 192, adapted.

When Jesus cried, “ ‘It is finished’ ” (John 19:30, ERV), two things happened. First, His suffering on the cross was over. Second, He won the worldwide war against Satan and his evil forces. “All heaven celebrated the Savior’s win. Satan lost the war and his kingdom.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 758, adapted.

`Sin must be very bad if Jesus needed to die to save us. What does this Bible truth teach us about how our good behavior is useless to save us?`