---
title:  He Died For Us 
date:  02/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read John 3:14–18 and Romans 6:23. What do these verses teach us that Jesus’ death did for us?`

When Jesus arrived at the Jordan River to be baptized, John the Baptist announced: “ ‘Look, the Lamb of God. He takes away [removes] the sins of the world [humans]!’ ” (John 1:29, ERV). John’s announcement showed that Jesus was the living Lamb. During Old Testament times, all the animals that were killed for offerings showed Jesus’ future death. But animal blood cannot remove sin (Hebrews 10:4). The forgiveness that God promised by the animal offerings depended on Jesus’ death. “If we tell Him our sins, He is faithful [can be trusted] and we can depend on Him to forgive us of our sins. He will make our lives clean from all sin” (1 John 1:9, NLV).

`Read John 3:16, 17. What wonderful hope do these verses give us?`

Think about everything John 3:16, 17 promises us. Jesus offered Himself for each of us. Why did the One who made everything (John 1:1–3) die for us? He died so that we do not need to be punished for our sins. This Bible truth is Good News. Jesus wants us to share it with everyone.

Jesus announced: “ ‘Yes, God loved the world so much that he gave his only Son’ ” (John 3:16, ERV) to die for us. We should never forget that no one forced Jesus to die for us. He volunteered to save us (Hebrews 9:14). Martin Luther wrote, “The cross was the same as an altar. Jesus offered Himself on this altar. There, Jesus was burned up by His love, which was the same as a fire. This fire burned in Jesus’ heart. Jesus gave His body and His blood as an offering to the Father. Jesus went to God to get help for us. With hot tears, Jesus cried to God to save us (Hebrews 5:7).”—Luther’s Works, volume 13 (St. Louis, MO: Concordia Publishing House, 1956), page 319, adapted. Jesus died only one time to save us all (Hebrews 10:10, 12). Jesus’ offering is all-powerful and never loses its strength.

There’s more: “What if only one person accepted the Good News? Would Jesus have died for him or her? Yes. Jesus would choose to suffer and die for that one soul.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 135, adapted.

`How can you accept the promise in John 3:16?`