---
title:  The Meaning Of The Cross 
date:  03/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read 1 Corinthians 1:18–24. What is Paul saying in these verses about the cross? Why is that message so important for our time?`

In the Bible, we see that the Cross of Jesus is the most important part of God’s plan to save sinners. “We will never fully understand how much love God showed humans at the cross of Calvary. At the cross, Jesus and His love met Satan and his selfish ways face-to-face.”

—Stephen N. Haskell, The Cross and Its Shadow (South Lancaster, MA: Bible Training School, 1914), page v, adapted.

While Jesus offered Himself for humans, Satan made Him suffer terrible pain. Jesus didn’t die only the natural death that every person must die. Jesus died the second death. Everyone who accepts Jesus won’t need to die this death.

The Cross teaches us several important Bible truths: (1) The Cross shows us God’s punishment against sin (Romans 3:21–26). (2) The Cross shows us God’s love for sinners (Romans 5:8). (3) The Cross gives us the strength to escape the “chains” of sin (Romans 6:22, 23; 1 Corinthians 1:17–24). (4) The Cross is our only hope of everlasting life (Philippians 3:9–11; John 3:14–16; 1 John 5:11, 12). And (5) the Cross is the only thing that will stop men and angels from starting another war against God’s government (Revelation 7:13–17; Revelation 22:3).

Without God’s help, the wisest humans can’t learn important Bible truths about the Cross. No wonder these “wise” men think that the teachings about the Cross are a foolish story. Should we be surprised, then, that so many “wise” people don’t believe that there is a God who made the earth and sky?

The English word for “moron” or “fool” comes from the Greek word for “foolish.” The preaching about the Cross is “foolish” to the “wise men” on this earth. They can’t know Jesus or His saving love that He offers us on the cross.

`The teachings of wise men have much to offer us. But why must we never let their wisdom come between us and Jesus, who uses the “foolish things we preach to save those [people] who believe” (1 Corinthians 1:21, NIrV)?`