---
title:  Further Thought
date:  04/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Gethsemane,” pages 685–697; “Calvary,” pages 741–757, in The Desire of Ages; “Repentance,” page 27, in Steps to Christ.

“I saw that everyone in heaven wants us to be saved. Shouldn’t this thought make us care about being saved, too? Shouldn’t this thought keep us from being careless? Our being saved or lost is very important. Don’t we care about how much God offered to save us? Some people don’t care. They have not been thankful for God’s mercy. God frowns at them. God’s Spirit won’t stay with us if we don’t want Him. The Spirit will go away if we make Him sad because we don’t thank God for everything. God has done so much to save humans. If they show that they don’t  want Jesus’ mercy, they will die in the end. When they die, they will feel all the pain Jesus felt on the cross. Then the people who are not saved will understand everything they lost: everlasting life and the treasures of heaven. Jesus’ wonderful offering for our sins shows us how much humans are worth. When a precious soul is lost, he or she is lost forever.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 1, page 124, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Paul writes, “It is not possible for the blood of bulls [male cows] and goats to take away sins” (Hebrews 10:4, ERV). If these offerings didn’t save anyone who made them, why did people need to make the offerings?`

`If Jesus died for the sins of everyone, why won’t everyone be saved? Why is our personal choice so important in God’s decision? Read 2 Corinthians 5:18–21 for the answer.`

`What are some of the foolish ideas that thinkers on this earth teach? What about the idea that life started by accident? Or that this earth and all the stars and planets came from nothing without God? What other examples of foolish ideas can you think of?`