---
title:  Understanding the Scriptures
date:  10/05/2020
---

`Read 2 Timothy 3:16, 17. For what purpose was the Bible given to us?`

The Bible was written as a witness to God’s work in history, His plan for redeeming the fallen race of humanity, and to instruct us in all ways of righteousness. The Lord chose to do this in human language, making His thoughts and ideas visible through human words.

In redeeming Israel from Egypt, God chose a specific nation to convey His message to all peoples. He allowed that nation to communicate His Word through their language, Hebrew (and a few portions in Aramaic, a language related to Hebrew).

The rise of Greek culture brought a new opportunity, allowing the New Testament to be communicated through the universal language of Greek, which was widely spoken in that part of the world at that time. (In fact, there was even a Greek translation of the Old Testament, as well.) This “universal” language enabled the apostles and early church to spread the message far and wide with new missionary zeal after the death of Christ. Later, the apostle John “bore witness to the word of God, and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, to all things that he saw” (Rev. 1:2, NKJV). In this way, the Bible indicates the continuity of this inspired “witness” and “testimony” from the first writer of Scripture to the last.

`Read Deuteronomy 32:46, 47. Why was it so important for the children of Israel to obey “all the words of this law” (Deut. 32:46), the Torah, or “instruction”? How does God’s Word “prolong” our days? What might that mean in our context today?`

Some people not only have the Bible translated into their native language but even have various versions of it in their own language. Others might have only one version, if even that. But regardless of what you have, the key point is to cherish it as the Word of God and, most important, to obey what it teaches.

`Why is it never “a futile thing” (Deut. 32:47, NKJV) to obey the Word of God and to teach it to your children, as well?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In the Word of God is contained everything essential to the perfecting of the man of God. It is like a treasure house, full of valuable and precious stores, but we do not appreciate its riches nor realize the necessity of equipping ourselves with the treasures of truth. We do not realize the great necessity of searching the Scriptures for ourselves. Many neglect the study of the Word of God in order to pursue some worldly interest or to indulge in some trifling pleasure. … Oh, we might better put off anything of an earthly character than the investigation of the Word of God, which is able to make us wise unto life eternal. “Given by inspiration of God,” … the Book of books has the highest claims to our reverent attention. …

The understanding takes the level of the things with which it becomes familiar. If all would make the Bible their study, we would see a people who were better developed, who were capable of thinking more deeply, who would manifest greater intelligence than those who have earnestly studied apart from the Bible the sciences and histories of the world. The Bible gives the true seeker for truth an advanced mental discipline, and he comes from contemplation of divine things with his faculties enriched; self is humbled, while God and His revealed truth are exalted.—In Heavenly Places, p. 133.

Let the heart be softened and subdued by the spirit of prayer before the Bible is read. Truth will triumph when the Spirit of truth cooperates with the humble Bible student. How precious the thought that the Author of truth still lives and reigns. Ask Him to impress your minds with the truth. Your searching of the Scriptures will then be profitable. Christ is the Great Teacher of His followers, and He will not leave you to walk in darkness.—Our High Calling, p. 207.

Your children should have an opportunity to study the Bible in the school. They need to be thoroughly furnished with the reasons of our faith, to understand the Scriptures for themselves. Through understanding the truths of the Bible, they will be better fitted to fill positions of trust. They will be fortified against the temptations that will beset them on the right hand and on the left. But if they are thoroughly instructed and consecrated, they may be called, as was Daniel, to fill important responsibilities. Daniel was a faithful statesman in the courts of Babylon; for he feared, loved, and trusted God; and in time of temptation and peril he was preserved by the power of God. We read that God gave Daniel wisdom, and endowed him with understanding.

Those who obtain a knowledge of God’s will, and practice the teaching of His word, will be found faithful in whatever position of trust they may be placed. Consider this, parents, and place your children where they will be educated in the principles of truth, where every effort will be made to help them to maintain their consecration, if converted, or if unconverted, to influence them to become the children of God, and thus fit them to go forth to win others to the truth.—Fundamentals of Christian Education, pp. 204, 205.