---
title:  Words and Their Meanings
date:  11/05/2020
---

In every language there are words that are so rich and deep in meaning that they are difficult to translate adequately with a single word into another language. Such words require a wide study of their usage in the Bible to understand the breadth of meaning.

`Read 1 Kings 3:6, Psalm 57:3, Psalm 66:20, Psalm 143:8, and Micah 7:20. How do God’s mercy and kindness extend toward His created beings?`

The Hebrew word chesed (mercy) is one of the richest and most profound words in the Old Testament. It describes God’s love, lovingkindess, mercy, and covenant attitude toward His people. In these few passages, we have seen Him show “ ‘great mercy [chesed] to Your servant David . . . ; You have continued this great kindness [chesed] for him’ ” (1 Kings 3:6, NKJV). He “shall send forth His mercy [chesed] and His truth” (Ps. 57:3, NKJV). Concerning Israel, He will “give truth to Jacob and mercy [chesed] to Abraham” (Mic. 7:20, NKJV). Entire books have been written on the word chesed, trying to capture the depth of God’s mercy and love toward us.

`Read Numbers 6:24–26, Job 3:26, Psalm 29:11, Isaiah 9:6 and Isaiah 32:17. In these passages, what is the “peace” or shalom talked about in them?`

The Hebrew word shalom is often translated as “peace.” But the meaning of the word is much deeper and broader than this. It can be translated as “wholeness, completeness, and well-being.” God’s blessing and graciousness keep us in a state of shalom, which is a gift from God (Num. 6:24–26). By contrast, Job’s experience of trouble produces a situation where he is “ ‘not at ease’ ” (NKJV) nor is he “ ‘quiet,’ ” for he lacks shalom. In this hectic world, it is a profound blessing to welcome the Sabbath day with the words Shabbat shalom, for our communion with God provides the ultimate peace and wholeness that our lives desire.

`In whatever language we speak and read—even without knowing the original meaning of these words—how can we experience the reality of what these words mean to the best of our understanding?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Justice and Mercy stood apart, in opposition to each other, separated by a wide gulf. The Lord our Redeemer clothed His divinity with humanity, and wrought out in behalf of man a character that was without spot or blemish. He planted His cross midway between heaven and earth, and made it the object of attraction which reached both ways, drawing both Justice and Mercy across the gulf. Justice moved from its exalted throne, and with all the armies of heaven approached the cross. There it saw One equal with God bearing the penalty for all injustice and sin. With perfect satisfaction Justice bowed in reverence at the cross, saying, It is enough.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 936.

[Our Redeemer] lived not to gratify Himself, but to do good and to save others from suffering, to help those who most needed help. He endured to the end. … The bitter cup was apportioned to us to drink. Our sins mingled it. But our dear Saviour took the cup from our lips and drank it Himself, and in its stead He presents to us a cup of mercy, blessing, and salvation. Oh, what an immense sacrifice was this for the fallen race! What love, what wondrous and matchless love! After all this manifestation of suffering to show His love, shall we shrink from the small trials we have to bear? Can we love Christ, and refuse to lift the cross? Can we love to be with Him in glory, and not follow Him even from the judgment hall to Calvary? If Christ be in us the hope of glory, we shall walk even as He walked; we shall imitate His life of sacrifice to bless others; we shall drink of the cup, and be baptized with the baptism; we shall welcome a life of devotion, trial, and self-denial, for Christ’s sake. Heaven will be cheap enough whatever sacrifice we may make to obtain it.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2, p. 73.

Peace of mind, which comes from pure and holy motives and actions, will give free and vigorous spring to all the organs of the body.

Inward peace and a conscience void of offense toward God will quicken and invigorate the intellect like dew distilled upon the tender plants. The will is then rightly directed and controlled, and is more decided, and yet free from perverseness. The meditations are pleasing because they are sanctified. The serenity of mind which you may possess will bless all with whom you associate. This peace and calmness will, in time, become natural, and will reflect its precious rays upon all around you, to be again reflected upon you. The more you taste this heavenly peace and quietude of mind, the more it will increase. It is an animated, living pleasure which does not throw all the moral energies into a stupor, but awakens them to increased activity. Perfect peace is an attribute of heaven which angels possess. May God help you to become a possessor of this peace.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2, p. 327.