---
title:  Repetition, Word Patterns, and Meaning
date:  12/05/2020
---

In Hebrew thought, there are a number of ways to express ideas that reinforce meaning and emphasize the importance of concepts. Unlike European languages, Hebrew contains no punctuation marks in the original language, so the language structure developed other ways to communicate such ideas.

`Read Genesis 1:26, 27 and Isaiah 6:1–3. What words are repeated in these passages? How are these repeated words enhanced by different concepts that are introduced through repetition?`

One of the ways that the Hebrew writer could emphasize a certain attribute of God was by repeating it three times. As the Creation account comes to the apex of God’s creative work, the text emphasized the unique importance of created humanity. The term bara’, “to create,” always has only God as its subject. That is, it is only God that has the power to create without being dependent on preexisting matter. Here the text describes the creation of man: “So God created man in His own image; in the image of God He created him; male and female He created them” (Gen. 1:27, NKJV; emphasis supplied). Notice the threefold repetition of the word “create.” Moses, thus, emphasized that human beings are created by God and that they are created in His image, as well. These truths were his emphasis.

In Isaiah’s vision and call, the seraphim repeat the words “Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts” (Isa. 6:3). The emphasis is on the holiness of an awesome God whose presence fills the temple. We also see this holiness through the words of Isaiah, as he stands in the presence of the Almighty: “Woe is me, for I am undone!” (Isa. 6:5, NKJV). Even a prophet like Isaiah, confronted with the holiness and character of God, cringed at his own unworthiness. Thus, even here, long before we have Paul’s exposition on human sinfulness and the need of a Savior (Romans 1–3), we can see the Bible giving expression to the fallen nature of humanity, even in a “good” person such as Isaiah.

In Daniel 3, we have a repetition (with variations) of the phrase “the image which Nebuchadnezzar set up” (Dan. 3:1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 12, 14, 15, 18, NKJV). This phrase, or variations of it, is repeated 10 times in the chapter to contrast Nebuchadnezzar’s action in defiance of the image God revealed to him through Daniel (Dan. 2:31–45). The emphasis here is on humanity’s seeking to make itself into a god to be worshiped, in contrast to the only true God, the only One worthy of worship.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory. Isaiah 6:3.

These holy beings sang forth the praise and glory of God with lips unpolluted with sin. The contrast between the feeble praise which he [Isaiah] had been accustomed to bestow upon the Creator and the fervid praises of the seraphim, astonished and humiliated the prophet. …

Thus when the servant of God is permitted to behold the glory of the God of heaven, as He is unveiled to humanity, and realizes to a slight degree the purity of the Holy One of Israel, he will make startling confessions of the pollution of his soul, rather than proud boasts of his holiness. In deep humiliation Isaiah exclaimed, “Woe is me! for I am undone; because I am a man of unclean lips… .” This is not that voluntary humility and servile self-reproach that so many seem to consider it a virtue to display. This vague mockery of humility is prompted by hearts full of pride and self-esteem. There are many who demerit themselves in words, who would be disappointed if this course did not call forth expressions of praise and appreciation from others. But the conviction of the prophet was genuine.—Conflict and Courage, p. 233.

How many cling with tenacious grasp to their self-termed dignity, which is only self-esteem. These seek to honor themselves instead of waiting in humbleness of heart for Christ to honor them. In conversation more time is spent in talking of self than in exalting the riches of the grace of Christ. …

True holiness and humility are inseparable. The nearer the soul comes to God, the more completely is it humbled and subdued. When Job heard the voice of the Lord out of the whirlwind, he exclaimed, “I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes” (Job 42:6). …

He who catches a glimpse of the matchless love of Christ counts all other things as loss, and looks upon Him as the chiefest among ten thousand and as the one altogether lovely. As seraphim and cherubim look upon Christ, they cover their faces with their wings. Their own perfection and beauty are not displayed in the presence and glory of their Lord. Then how improper it is for men to exalt themselves! Let them rather be clothed with humility, cease all strife for supremacy, and learn what it means to be meek and lowly of heart. He who contemplates God’s glory and infinite love, will have humble views of himself, but by beholding the character of God, he will be changed into His divine image.—That I May Know Him, p. 175.