---
title:  Texts and Contexts
date:  13/05/2020
---

Words in Scripture always occur in a context. They do not stand by themselves. A word has its immediate context within a sentence, and it is this unit that needs to be understood first. Then there is the wider context of the overall unit in which the sentence occurs. This may be a section of writing, a chapter, or a series of chapters. It is essential to understand as well as possible the context of words and sentences in order not to arrive at erroneous conclusions.

`Compare Genesis 1:27 with Genesis 2:7. Then read Genesis 2:15–23. How can we understand from these different passages and contexts the definition of adam, the Hebrew word for “man”?`

We have already seen that the repetition of the term bara’ in Genesis 1:27 indicates an emphasis on the creation of man. Now we see that man is defined within the context of this verse as “male and female.” This means that the Hebrew term adam is to be understood in this passage as a reference generically to humanity.

However, in Genesis 2:7 the same term adam is used to refer to the forming of Adam out of the dust of the “ground” (in Hebrew adamah— notice the play on words). Here only the male, Adam, is referred to, for Eve is not created until later and in an entirely different manner. Thus, in each passage, even within the context of two chapters, we see a differentiation between the definition of adam as “humanity” (Gen. 1:27) and the man Adam (Gen. 2:7). That Adam is a person is later affirmed in the genealogies (Gen. 5:1–5, 1 Chron. 1:1, Luke 3:38) and in reference to Jesus, who becomes the “second Adam” (Rom. 5:12–14).

Just as the word Adam occurs in a specific text, so the context of the creation of Adam and Eve is found in the larger Creation account as seen in Genesis 1 and Genesis 2. This is what is meant by a larger unit. The unit informs the interpreter of additional themes, ideas, and developments. Genesis 2:4–25 has sometimes been called the second Creation account, but in fact there is only a difference in emphasis (see next week). In both accounts, though, we are shown the definitive origins of humanity.

`As we can see, man and woman—humanity—are the direct creations of God. What does this tell us about how foolish the “wisdom of this world” (1 Cor. 1:20) truly is by teaching us that we arose from mere chance?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Satan tempted the first Adam in Eden, and Adam reasoned with the enemy, thus giving him the advantage. Satan exercised his power of hypnotism over Adam and Eve, and this power he strove to exercise over Christ. But after the word of Scripture was quoted, Satan knew that he had no chance of triumphing. …

Christ, in the wilderness of temptation, stood in Adam’s place to bear the test he failed to endure. Here Christ overcame in the sinner’s behalf, four thousand years after Adam turned his back upon the light of his home. Separated from the presence of God, the human family had been departing every successive generation, farther from the original purity, wisdom, and knowledge which Adam possessed in Eden. Christ bore the sins and infirmities of the race as they existed when He came to the earth to help man. In behalf of the race, with the weaknesses of fallen man upon Him, He was to stand the temptations of Satan upon all points wherewith man would be assailed.—Ellen G. White Comments in, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 5, p. 1081.

In what contrast is the second Adam as He entered the gloomy wilderness to cope with Satan single-handed. Since the fall the race had been decreasing in size and physical strength, and sinking lower in the scale of moral worth, up to the period of Christ’s advent to the earth. And in order to elevate fallen man, Christ must reach him where he was. He took human nature, and bore the infirmities and degeneracy of the race. He, who knew no sin, became sin for us. He humiliated Himself to the lowest depths of human woe, that He might be qualified to reach man, and bring him up from the degradation in which sin had plunged him.—The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, July 28, 1874.

How many are making laborious work of walking in the narrow way of holiness. To many the peace and rest of this blessed way seems no nearer today than it did years in the past. They look afar off for that which is nigh; they make intricate that which Jesus made very plain. He is “the way, the truth, and the life.” The plan of salvation has been plainly revealed in the Word of God; but the wisdom of the world has been sought too much, and the wisdom of Christ’s righteousness too little. And souls that might have rested in the love of Jesus, have been doubting, and troubled about many things. …

You must trust Jesus for yourselves, appropriate the promises of God to yourselves, or how can you educate others to have humble, holy confidence in Him?—Selected Messages, book 3, p. 151.