---
title:  Kudzidza Kuenda Mberi
date:   03/01/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘To Meet the Bridegroom,’ ” pp. 405–421, in Christ’s Object Lessons.

“It is the darkness of misapprehension of God that is enshrouding the world. Men are losing their knowledge of His character. It has been misunderstood and misinterpreted. At this time a message from God is to be proclaimed, a message illuminating in its influence and saving in its power. His character is to be made known. Into the darkness of the world is to be shed the light of His glory, the light of His goodness, mercy, and truth.

“This is the work outlined by the prophet Isaiah in the words, ‘O Jerusalem, that bringest good tidings, lift up thy voice with strength; lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of Judah, Behold your God! Behold, the Lord God will come with strong hand, and His arm shall rule for Him; behold, His reward is with Him, and His work before Him.’ Isa. 40:9, 10.

“Those who wait for the Bridegroom’s coming are to say to the people, ‘Behold your God.’ The last rays of merciful light, the last message of mercy to be given to the world, is a revelation of His character of love. The children of God are to manifest His glory. In their own life and character they are to reveal what the grace of God has done for them.

“The light of the Sun of Righteousness is to shine forth in good works—in words of truth and deeds of holiness.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pp. 415, 416.

**Mibvunzo Yekutaurirana**:

`Kupfuura pfungwa yekuti Mwari haako kune pfungwa yekuti Mwari anotivenga. Tingadai tichirarama munyika yakadini kudai ichi chaiva chokwadi?`

`Nemhaka yei uchifunga kuti pane kusanzwisisa kukuru pamusoro pechimiro chaMwari munyika yedu nhasi? Funga nekukurukura nzira dzinogona kubatsira  vanhu  kuvona chimiro chaMwari cherudo zvakanaka.`
 
`Nderipi shoko rinofanira kuparidzwa nezvechimiro chaMwari nhasi? Ungatsanangura sei nyaya iyi kune munhu asingazivi chokwadi chezverudo rwaMwari? Ndezvipi zvinobatika zvaungaratidza zvinoratidza rudo rwake chairwo nechimiro chake chinoshamisa kwazvo?`

`Kutaura nezverudo rwaMwari ndechimwe chinhu. Kururatidza muvupenyu hwedu  ndechimwe. Ndeapi “mabasa ehutsvene” anogona kuratidza rudo rwaMwari kuvanhu vakatipoteredza?`