---
title: 'Jesus’ Promise: The Holy Spirit'
date: 26/07/2020
---

Jesus followers are worried. What will happen to them after Jesus leaves them? How will they do the work He gave them to do? So, Jesus makes His followers a promise. He will send them the Holy Spirit after He goes back to heaven. This promise helps Jesus’ followers to stop worrying. Jesus tells them, “ ‘But I tell you the truth. It is better for you that I go away. When I go away I will send the Helper to you. If I do not go away, then the Helper will not come’ ” (John 16:7, ICB). The Greek word for “Helper” is “parakletos.” “Parakletos” means “one who comes near to your side” to help you. That is exactly what the Holy Spirit does! One of His most important jobs is to come to our side. He gives us power. He guides us in our work to tell people about Jesus. When we share Jesus with people, we are not alone. The Holy Spirit stays at our side. He leads us to people who are honest in heart. They are looking for the truth. The Holy Spirit makes their hearts ready before we ever meet them. The Holy Spirit helps us say the right words. He brings the truth to people’s minds and convinces them that it is right. The Holy Spirit also gives people strength to accept what He tells them.

`Read John 15:26, 27 and John 16:8. What do these verses tell us about the work that the Holy Spirit does to help us share Jesus with people?`

The Holy Spirit tells us about Jesus. His plan is to lead as many people to Jesus as possible. The Holy Spirit’s work is to give Jesus glory. The Holy Spirit tells all believers that it is their job to tell people about Jesus. The Holy Spirit opens our eyes. He helps us see all the good in the people around us. The Holy Spirit’s work is unseen. He works on people’s hearts in ways we cannot see. He helps people to accept the Good News about Jesus.

The book of John makes the Holy Spirit’s work clear: The Holy Spirit will show people on earth “ ‘the truth about sin’ ” (John 16:8, NLV). The Holy Spirit moves on people’s hearts. He shows them how far from God they really are. He tells them to turn away from sin. But the Holy Spirit’s job is not just to show us how bad we are. He also shows us how good, kind, and loving Jesus is. Then the Holy Spirit works hard to make us look just the same as Jesus.
