---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AND THE MESSAGE ABOUT THE CROSS
date:   28/07/2020
---

We see the work of the Holy Spirit in the whole book of Acts. The Holy Spirit helps believers share Jesus with people in many ways. The Holy Spirit gives them strength. He helps Christians share Jesus in places where people do not accept God. The Holy Spirit leads people to seek Bible truth. The Holy Spirit gets the hearts of people ready to accept Jesus. He helps whole cities get ready to accept the Lord before any Christians ever go to those cities. The Holy Spirit gives Jesus’ followers chances to preach that they never thought were possible. The Holy Spirit makes their words and actions strong.

`Read Acts 7:55; Acts 8:29; Acts 11:15; Acts 15:28, 29; and Acts 16:6–10. How does the Holy Spirit help Jesus’ followers in each experience shown in these verses? What are some of the things the Holy Spirit does to help Jesus’ followers?`

The Holy Spirit’s work during the 1st century is very wonderful! The experiences you read about are only a small example of His work. The Spirit gave Stephen spiritual strength to talk about Jesus. That was during a time when a big crowd wanted to kill Stephen with stones. The Spirit led Philip to a powerful Ethiopian who was searching for the truth. That meeting helped open up all of Africa for the Good News! The Holy Spirit gave Peter a sign to help him know that God also gave non-Jews the gift of the Holy Spirit. The Spirit also brought peace to the church during a time when the church almost broke apart. The Holy Spirit also made it possible for Paul and other Christians to preach the Good News in Europe.

The Holy Spirit was active in the New Testament church and is active in the life of the church today. He wants to make us strong too. He also wants to teach us, guide us, make us one, and send us out to do the most important work on earth. That is, leading men and women to Jesus and His truth. So, remember, the Holy Spirit continues to work today, just as He worked during New Testament times.

`What can we do, day by day, to make ourselves more open to the Holy Spirit’s power? Also, what choices can we make that will let the Holy Spirit work in us to help other people?`
