---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT, THE BIBLE, AND THE MESSAGE ABOUT JESUS
date:   29/07/2020
---

The New Testament church tells people about Jesus. God’s Word, the Bible, is the support for all its preaching. In Acts 4, Peter witnesses to the Jews by preaching. Most of Peter’s sermon comes from Old Testament verses. These verses show that Jesus is the Savior. Later on, Peter says, “ ‘God has sent his message to the people of Israel’ ” (Acts 10:36, ICB). Then Peter shares with Cornelius the story about Jesus waking up from the dead. Stephen does the same thing as Peter. Before Stephen is killed, he preaches about Israel’s history in the Old Testament. Paul talks about Old Testament promises about the Savior. Philip also uses the Old Testament to help an Ethiopian understand the promise about the Savior in Isaiah 53. In each story, Jesus’ followers announce God’s truth. The Bible is the support for all their preaching.

`Read Acts 4:4, 31; Acts 8:4; Acts 13:48, 49; Acts 17:2; Acts 18:24, 25. What do these verses teach us about the connection between the Holy Spirit, the Bible, and the message shared by the New Testament church?`

The same Holy Spirit who led men to write the Bible also uses the Bible to change lives. There is life-giving power in the Bible. Why? Because the Spirit gives the Bible power. The Bible is Jesus’ Living Word.

`Read 2 Peter 1:21 and Hebrews 4:12. Why is the Bible powerful enough to change lives?`

“The same power that made the earth is in the Bible. This Word gives us power; it starts life. Every Bible command is a promise. When we accept God’s promise, we must take it into our hearts. Each promise brings God’s life into our hearts. The promise changes us. It makes us new.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 126, adapted.

The Bible has the power to change lives because the Spirit changes us as we read the Bible. This is the same Spirit who helped men write the Bible. The Spirit also works in people’s lives when we share the truth with them. God promises to bless His Word, not our words. The power is in the Bible, not in human ideas.
