---
title: 'The Holy Spirit’s Life-Changing Power'
date: 30/07/2020
---

The book of Acts shows that God works miracles in human lives with His Spirit. Acts shows how the Good News wins against wrong ways of thinking. The Good News also changes lifelong habits. The Good News teaches all humans about God’s mercy, forgiveness, and truth. The Holy Spirit meets people where they are. But He does not leave them there. By the Spirit’s power, we are changed.

`Read Acts 16:11–15, 23–34; Acts 17:33, 34; and Acts 18:8. These are only a few of the Bible stories about changed lives. What do these stories teach us about God’s power to change the lives of different people?`

These verses show us people who are very different from each other. Lydia was a business owner. The Philippian prison guard was a middle-class Roman citizen. The Holy Spirit can touch the hearts of people from all social levels. The Spirit’s power changes both men and women, rich and poor, educated and not educated.

The last two people on our list are surprising and wonderful. Acts 17:34 tells us about Dionysius the Areopagite. The Areopagites of the city of Athens were part of the legal team of judges who judged court cases. These judges were important members of their city.

The Holy Spirit works in Paul to touch the hearts of very important people. One of them is Crispus (Acts 18:8). Crispus is the leader of the Jewish church. Crispus follows the Old Jewish ways. But the Holy Spirit changes his life and thoughts. These stories show us that the Holy Spirit will do wonderful things in other people’s lives when we share with them Jesus and Bible truth. We cannot and must not make guesses about who we think can, or cannot, be saved. Our work is to share Jesus with anyone and everyone that God brings into our lives. The Lord will do the rest.

`Jesus’ death is for everyone. What does this important truth teach us about why we should not judge if somebody cannot be saved?`
