---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   31/07/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Gift of the Spirit,” pages 47–56, in The Acts of the Apostles; “ ‘Let Not Your Heart Be Troubled,’ ” pages 667–672, in The Desire of Ages.

The Holy Spirit works with God the Father and Jesus the Son to save us. When we tell people about Jesus, we join the Spirit in His work of saving lives. He touches people’s hearts. He gives us chances to share Jesus with people. His Word, the Bible, shows people the truth about Jesus. The Spirit stops us from being slaves to evil thoughts. He helps us win the war against wrong ways of thinking. He makes us free from the evil habits that put us in chains.

When we share Jesus with people, we are working with the Holy Spirit. He is there before us. He makes people’s hearts ready for the Good News. The Spirit is there with us, helping us choose the right thoughts and words. He helps us to do kind acts to help people. He helps us when we share our stories about how Jesus has changed our lives. The Spirit is with us when we give a Bible study too. He is with us when we give someone a book about Bible truth. He is with us when we share Bible truth with people everywhere on earth. The Spirit will continue working on a person’s heart long after we leave him or her. He will do whatever it takes to save this person.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Talk about a time when you felt the Holy Spirit working in a powerful way in your life as you shared Jesus with someone.`

`2. Have you ever felt afraid of sharing your faith? How does knowing about the Holy Spirit’s work stop that fear? How does the Spirit’s work encourage you as you share Jesus with people?`

`3. This week we talked about the “work” that the Holy Spirit does to help us share God’s message. What are some of the different ways that the Spirit works with us to tell people about Jesus? How does the Holy Spirit help us to share Jesus and work in the lives of people?`

`4. Why is the Bible so important to our faith and our personal story about what Jesus does for us?`
