---
title:  The Last Days and God’s Saving Plan
date:   21/04/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
John 14:9; Zephaniah 3:17; John 1:1–3; Romans 8:38, 39; Psalm 91:15, 16.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Here is what love is. It is not that we loved God. It is that he loved us and sent his Son to give his life to pay for our sins” (1 John 4:10, NIrV). 

What is the most important difference between the Christian religion and non-Christian religions? Non-Christian religions have a lot to say about the teachings of the leaders who started their religions. But non-Christian religions do not have a lot to say about the things that their leaders have done for them. Why not? Because nothing these leaders did can save their followers. The most these leaders can do is teach their followers to “save” themselves.

But Christianity is different. As Christians, we talk about Jesus’ teachings. But we also talk about the things Jesus did to save us. What did Jesus do? He became a human (Romans 8:3). He died on the cross (Romans 5:8). He woke up from the dead (1 Peter 1:3). He works right now in heaven to get us ready to live with Him (Hebrews 7:25). These things alone save us. We are not saved by anything we do ourselves. “What would happen if you told God’s angels that part of the reason why humans will be saved is because of everything that is good, holy, and lovely in humans? Then the angels would throw that idea out because it is disloyal to God.”—Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, page 24, adapted. 

The truth that Jesus alone saves us is a very important truth for us in these last days.