---
title:  God Our Father’s Love for Us
date:   22/04/2018
---

Not too long before Jesus died on the cross, Jesus spoke with His closest followers. Jesus explained to them that people come to the Father only by believing in Jesus. Then one of Jesus’ followers, Philip, said, “ ‘Lord, show us the Father. That is all we need’ ” (John 14:8, ERV).

`How does Jesus answer Philip in John 14:9? What does Jesus’ answer teach us about our Father in heaven? How does Philip’s question show us his false ideas about God? What were they? How does Jesus’ answer show us these ideas are false?`

Some people say that the Old Testament shows us that God is a mean Judge. They also say that the New Testament shows us that God is full of mercy and very forgiving. These people say that the Bible shows us two very different pictures of God. But this thinking is false. The God in the Old Testament is the same God in the New Testament. God has the same mercy and forgiveness in the Old Testament that He has in the New Testament.

One reason Jesus came to this earth was to show people the truth about God the Father. But by the time Jesus came to this earth, wrong ideas about God the Father filled the minds of people everywhere who did not believe in God. Sadly, God’s chosen people believed wrong things about Him too. “The earth was a dark place because people believed wrong ideas about God. Jesus came to bring the truth to this earth. He came to bring the people on this earth back to God. Jesus came to break Satan’s powerful lies.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 22, adapted. These were some of the reasons that Jesus came to this earth.

God does not change. If we understood exactly why things happened as they did in the Old Testament, we would see God is just as forgiving and full of mercy in the Old Testament as He is in the New Testament. “God is love” (1 John 4:8, NLV). “Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever” (Hebrews 13:8, NLV).

Remember, too, that it was the God of the Old Testament who hung on the cross. This God is not quick to get angry. God’s love never fails us (Psalm 147:11). God wants to give His people success and hope (Jeremiah 29:11). He is loyal, kind, and full of love (Exodus 34:6, 7). God is all these things and more.
