---
title:  Jesus’ Love for Us
date:   23/04/2018
---

Sin separated humans from God. The separation between humans and God was very wide, deep, and dangerous. That separation between God and humans needed to end. Until that happened, humans faced everlasting ruin. It took something amazing to solve the sin problem and to join sinners again with a holy God. It took Someone who was everlasting and who was God Himself to solve the problem. That Someone was Jesus. To solve the sin problem, Jesus became a Human Being and gave His life to pay for our sins.

`Read John 1:1–3, 14 and Philippians 2:5–8. What do these verses teach us about Jesus?`

Jesus is everlasting. He does not depend on anyone or anything for His life. He does not only seem to be God on the outside. Jesus is God Himself. Jesus continued to be God when He became a Human. He became a Human so that He could obey the law in human flesh. He became human so that He could die as our Substitute. He died for everyone who broke the law. That means He died for everyone who ever lived (Romans 3:23).

Jesus became human. He had no special power that other humans did not have. He obeyed God’s law. He did not use His power as God to obey. Instead, Jesus trusted in, and depended on, the same power from God that every person can trust in.

Jesus was fully God and fully human. Jesus “holds everything together with his powerful word” (Hebrews 1:3, ICB). But this same God was also born as a “Baby lying in a place where cattle are fed” (Luke 2:16, NLV). Jesus “was there before anything was made. And all things continue because of him” (Colossians 1:17, ERV). But this same God also lived as a human Child, who “grew strong in mind and body” (Luke 2:52, NLV). This God Jesus “made all things” (John 1:3, NLV). But this same God also was “ ‘killed and nailed to a cross’ ” (Acts 5:30, NLV).

All these things show Jesus’ love for us. Jesus’ love shows to us the Father’s love for us. No wonder we have so many reasons to be filled with joy and to feel thankful!

`How do the things we studied today give us powerful reasons to trust Paul’s words to us in Romans 8:38, 39?`
