---
title:  The Holy Spirit’s Love for Us
date:   24/04/2018
---

Many people do not understand the Holy Spirit. People misunderstand the Holy Spirit almost as much as they misunderstand God our Father. Some Bible thinkers believe that the Holy Spirit is not a Person. Instead, these thinkers believe the Spirit is only the love between the Father and the Son. This thinking makes the Spirit nothing more than a feeling between God and Jesus and not God Himself.

But the Bible proves that the Holy Spirit is a Person. Christians are baptized in the Spirit’s name along with the Father’s and the Son’s names (Matthew 28:19). The Holy Spirit gives Jesus glory and honor (John 16:14). The Holy Spirit tells people that sin is wrong (John 16:8). We can make the Holy Spirit feel sad about the way we live our lives (Ephesians 4:30). The Holy Spirit comforts us (John 14:16). He is a Helper, and He advises us (John 14:16). He is a Teacher (Luke 12:12). He “speaks to God for us” (Romans 8:26, ERV). The Holy Spirit makes us holy (1 Peter 1:2). Jesus said the Holy Spirit leads people into all truth (John 16:13).

The Holy Spirit is God as much as the Father and Son are. Together, the Father, the Son, and Spirit are One God.

`Everything the Holy Spirit does shows us God’s love. What are some things the Spirit does? Read Luke 12:12; John 16:8–13; and Acts 13:2 to help answer the question.`

What is the biggest proof that the Holy Spirit is God? It is the fact that the Holy Spirit made Jesus’ birth as a Man possible. The Holy Spirit put Jesus as a baby in Mary’s womb. The womb is the part of a woman’s body where her baby grows until it is ready to be born. Only God could put Jesus in Mary’s womb.

The Holy Spirit is working along with the Father and Jesus to save us. “God the Father, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit felt deep sorrow for humans. So, the Three-in-One God worked together to save humans from sin.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels [advice] on Health, page 222, adapted.

God the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit love us. They are working hard to save us.

`Why should it comfort us to know that God the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Spirit are hard at work to save us?`
