---
title:  We Can Be Sure God Will Save Us
date:   25/04/2018
---

Some of us Seventh-day Adventists wonder if we will be saved. We are not sure. We want to know if we have everlasting life. We work hard to be good enough. But in the end, we know deep in our hearts that we fall short of being good enough to be saved. We look inside ourselves. But we see very little there to give us hope in this life.

There is a big difference between Jesus’ holy life and our own lives. We read verses in the Bible that say: “ ‘But the gate that opens the way to true life is narrow [very small]. And the road that leads there is hard to follow. Only a few people find it’ ” (Matthew 7:14, ERV). Then we may wonder if we are ever going to make it to heaven.

So then, how do we ever get ready for Jesus to come back? Here is the answer: we must be sure right now about being saved. We must feel joy in the truth that Jesus saves us. Then we will be able to face the future without fear. As we have studied so far, God the Father, Jesus His Son, and the Holy Spirit are hard at work to save us. So, we can trust in God to save us. What a precious gift!

**Read the verses below. What hope do they give us about why we can trust in God to save us? Why can we feel sure about the things God has done for us and promises to do?**

`Psalm 91:15, 16`

`Joel 2:31, 32`

`John 10:28`

`Romans 10:9–13`

`1 John 5:11–13`

God tells us, even commands us, to live holy lives. But these lives are possible only because Jesus has saved us. We do not live holy lives to earn the gift of being saved. We must be loyal to God even if obeying Him means that we get killed. But we must always trust in His gift of saving us. This gift is our only hope. God’s people will show to everyone on this earth that they are loyal and obedient to God in the last days. Their loyal and obedient lives come only from their trust in Jesus to save them.
