---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   27/04/2018
---

We can trust and believe that we are saved. But we must not think we can somehow ever be good enough to save ourselves. Is it possible for us to have such a false faith? Yes. Jesus warned us about it too. He said, “ ‘Not everyone who calls me Lord will enter God’s kingdom. The only people who will enter are those who do what my Father in heaven wants. On that last Day many will call me Lord. They will say, “Lord, Lord, by the power of your name we spoke for God. And by your name we forced out demons and did many miracles.” Then I will tell those people clearly, “Get away from me, you people who do wrong. I never knew you’ ’ ” (Matthew 7:21–23, ERV).

The people that Jesus describes in this verse made two terrible mistakes. First, it is true that they did many good things in the Lord’s name. But they were not following God’s plan. God’s plan is for us to obey His law. Jesus did not say to them, “Go away from me you who are not perfect.” Instead, Jesus says that these people “ ‘do wrong.’ ” This wording comes from the Greek word “anomian.” It means that these people did not obey the law. Second, do you see that these people put a lot of importance on themselves and the things they did? But their hearts were very far away from Jesus. These people point to their own works to make themselves right with God. But only Jesus’ works save us. When we accept Jesus, God accepts us as if we ourselves lived Jesus’ holy life. Our feeling sure that we are saved comes from this gift. Do you want to feel sure that you are saved? Obey God’s law. Trust only in the things Jesus has done for you. Then you will have all the hope you need.

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Martin Luther said: “When I look to myself, I do not know how I can be saved. When I look to Jesus, I do not know how I can be lost.”—Adapted. Why is it a good idea always to remember these words?`

`2.	God chose us to be saved before He ever made the earth. Why does this truth not mean that everyone will be saved? Why will some people not be saved? Will it be because God did not choose these people? Or will it be because of the choices these people made? Explain.`

`3.	There is a big war going on between good and evil. How can knowing this fact help us to live on this earth where so many bad things happen?`
