---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/07/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘The Sower Went Forth to Sow,’ ” pp. 33–61, in _Christ’s Object Lessons_.

“True holiness is wholeness in the service of God. This is the condition of true Christian living. Christ asks for an unreserved consecration, for undivided service. He demands the heart, the mind, the soul, the strength. Self is not to be cherished. He who lives to himself is not a Christian.

“Love must be the principle of action. Love is the underlying principle of God’s government in heaven and earth, and it must be the foundation of the Christian’s character. This alone can make and keep him steadfast. This alone can enable him to withstand trial and temptation.

“And love will be revealed in sacrifice. The plan of redemption was laid in sacrifice—a sacrifice so broad and deep and high that it is immeasurable. Christ gave all for us, and those who receive Christ will be ready to sacrifice all for the sake of their Redeemer. The thought of His honor and glory will come before anything else.”—Ellen G. White, _Christ’s Object Lessons_, pp. 48, 49.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“Love must be the principle of action. Love is the underlying principle of God’s government in heaven and earth.” How does the Cross reveal this amazing truth to us? In our lives, how can we reflect this kind of love? Why must we?`

`How would you respond to someone who insisted that Jesus told parables to keep outsiders in the dark? Why would Jesus, who died for every human being (see 1 John 2:2), deliberately keep in the dark people whom He had died on the cross to save?`

`A lamp is supposed to be on a lampstand, not under a basket (Mark 4:21). Apply this principle to your church’s engagement with your local community. How can you lift the light up higher?`

`Consider the parable of the growing seed (Mark 4:26–29). What part do humans play in helping the gospel seed to grow, and what part does God play? Though we obviously play a role, how can we still make sure we are totally dependent upon God? Could this attitude of total dependence perhaps be part of what we need to do in order to grow?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Upward Look_, “To Every Man His Work,” p. 273;\
_God’s Amazing Grace_, “Unlike Earthly Kingdoms,” p. 14.