---
title:  Falling Happens
date:   29/03/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Genesis 3:1–15

**Falling Happens**

During my third year of high school, when I first began attending a Seventh-day Adventist boarding academy, I fell in love. I had all the symptoms. I could barely breathe when she floated by—no way was she walking—in the hallway or lunch line. My tongue felt like a board in my mouth if she so much as looked my way, so you can imagine my overwhelming anxiety when I found myself in the lunchroom one day sitting directly across from her. We began a nervous conversation that eventually settled down. Right then, I was convinced we were on our way to the marriage altar!

In the weeks that followed, we struck up a friendship and became closer. Our relationship was progressing like a dream until one day, I came around the side of our school building only to find her—the girl I thought God had made just for me—in the arms of another guy. In that moment, reality bit me with the ferocity of a Sumatran tiger. I had “fallen in love” with the wrong person, and I had a painful wound to prove it.

The hurt of this juvenile betrayal is but a drop in the ocean of hurt that God must have felt when Adam and Eve “fell in love” with the wrong person and betrayed Him. Wide-eyed and overconfident, Eve found herself mesmerized by a talking snake. Shortsighted and unwise, Adam ate the fruit he had vowed to never touch for fear of losing the woman he loved. The disobedience of the first humans on earth created a breach, a break, in what had only ever been a perfect relationship between God and His crowning creation. As we will see this week, Satan is still adept at getting people to fall in love with him while breaking their relationship with God.

### inScribe

Write out Genesis 3:1–15 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Genesis 3:1–4. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind-map the chapter.

` `