---
title:  Did God Say?
date:   30/03/2025
---

### inGest

The fall of humanity in Eden seems like a fairly straightforward tale, but a close reading of Genesis 3:1–6 reveals a slippery slope into sin. Before we even get to Genesis 3, much has already happened on the newly-created planet earth. God had created a beautiful ecosystem, complete with breathtaking flora and fauna of every stripe and color. He then created Adam in His image (1:27) and gave him a sense of purpose as caretaker of the magnificent Garden of Eden (2:15). Adam recognized a relational void in his life, which God filled by creating Eve (v. 18). In Genesis 2:20–24, Eve joined Adam in the garden, and together they lived in close connection with their Creator.

Genesis 3 interrupts God’s love affair with earth’s first lovers. Humanity’s fall began with a simple question: “Has God indeed said, ‘You shall not eat of every tree of the garden’?” (v. 1). Notice Satan’s fiendish brilliance. The first thing he did was camouflage himself as a beautiful, talking serpent. That was Eve’s first clue to run! Many beautiful serpents lived in Eden, but none of them spoke. Satan’s second move was to ask a question with just enough error to warrant clarification. When Eve lingered to listen to Satan, she was already setting herself up for defeat.

After Eve correctly answered Satan’s inquiry, he planted a seed of doubt in her mind by stating, “You will not surely die” (v. 4). He followed up with an explanation that appealed to Eve’s pride: “God knows that in the day you eat of [this tree] your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil” (v. 5). Satan appealed to her imagination. It’s like he was whispering, “He’s keeping things from you, Eve.” At that point, Eve looked longingly at the fruit, desired it, and ate it (v. 6).

Satan deceived Eve into believing she had found something better, but Adam ate the fruit with the full knowledge that he was doing wrong (1 Tim. 2:14). He ate the fruit knowing Eve’s disobedience would lead to death. The thought of life without her was unbearable. If she had to die, he decided he would die with her. Both Adam and Eve distrusted God.

Satan’s strategy to break Adam and Eve’s loyalty to God was simple, yet devastatingly effective. He donned an appealing disguise, never revealing his true nature. He engaged Eve in a discussion whose implications she did not fully grasp. He lied to her, distorting God’s character. He appealed to her pride, enticing her to want more. His appeal to Adam was similarly simple. Adam believed he could not endure life without Eve, so he ate the fruit. In all of this, neither Adam nor Eve consulted God.

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from Genesis 3:1–15. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why didn’t God stop Satan’s deception of Eve?`

`What other reasons might Adam have come up with to justify eating the forbidden fruit?`