---
title:  Warned and Protected
date:   31/03/2025
---

### inTerpret

Humanity’s fall in Eden began a millennia-long trail of misery on earth. Sin devastated Adam and Eve’s relationship with God, and it’s still breaking relationships with Him today. Adam and Eve worshiped God freely and consistently before sin. After sin, they hid and were forced to leave their beloved and holy home. Separated from God, this earth became the new battleground for a larger war that began in heaven. Before the creation of this world, Satan led an uprising that resulted in a colossal battle against Michael and His angels (Rev. 12:7). Satan was so skillful in heaven that he deceived a third of the angels (v. 4). This war in heaven was not just a philosophical battle; it was physical and palpable. Adam and Eve were facing a mighty foe whose power far exceeded their own. They were dealing with an enemy who works as both a powerful dragon and a stealthy snake “who deceives the whole world” (v. 9).

God could not have allowed such a catastrophic threat and failed to warn His precious earthly creations of what lurked in the universe. More than that, God’s love for Adam and Eve, expressed through a deep and abiding relationship with them, was the ultimate protection against Satan. As free moral agents, the holy pair could explore the created world, come and go at will, and make decisions as they deemed best without any restriction from God, except one: to not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. This was God’s test of their allegiance to Him, a test of their relationship with Him. A love that does not allow people to choose against it is not love at all. Adam and Eve were free to choose, but they were only safe to the degree that they remained close to the One who loved them most.

They were protected by mornings and evenings spent with God, by long walks and talks with Him, by angels who ministered to them and guided them. Healthy relationships protect human beings in many ways. They lower stress, decrease depression, raise self-esteem, and increase empathy. If good relationships with other humans can do this for us in this sinful world, imagine the protective effects of daily communion with God in a perfect world. Adam and Eve traded all the blessings of connection with God for the suggestion of something better, something that God was allegedly withholding from them. We must never forget that the quality of our relationship with God is our only protection against Satan.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`In what ways has your relationship with God protected you from Satan’s temptations?`