---
title:  A Ray of Hope
date:   02/04/2025
---

### inVite

At the beginning of this week’s study, I shared the story of the girl of my dreams whom I found in the arms of another guy. As you might imagine, what I felt at that moment was difficult to put into words. This experience highlights one peril of dating while in high school. Teens are inadequately prepared for the ups and downs of serious romantic relationships, but that truth was lost on me. I felt a mix of rage, revulsion, disillusionment, and betrayal. I didn’t know it at the time, but God had somebody else in mind for me.

It’s difficult to overestimate the state of degradation Adam and Eve found themselves in after they had sinned. Their spiritual and physical condition changed immediately. Their loss of innocence left them valiantly trying to cover themselves, but their human effort and ingenuity produced nothing better than fig leaves for clothes (Gen. 3:7).

To this day, sewing fig leaves remains one of humanity’s fanatical passions. Many are still sewing fig leaves to cover themselves. For some, it’s the fig leaf of avoidance—they rationalize their sins and never face them. For others, it’s the fig leaf of will power—they say they “just won’t ever do that again.” Some attempt to “launder” their sins by applying the “detergent” of good works. Surely doing good washes away our wrongs, right? The truth is, none of these options cover us. They are as inadequate as the fig leaf aprons Adam and Eve fashioned. They are all attempts to hide from God what sin has done to us.

That is why the picture of a God who comes in search of His lost loved ones (vv. 8, 9) is so revolutionary! Sin had severed their connection with God, but there was God calling to Adam, inviting him and Eve to come to Him. After a litany of excuses, God offered a bright ray of hope to the fallen pair as He rebuked the serpent: “And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her Seed; He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise His heel” (v. 15). One was coming whose sacrifice would do what no fig leaves ever could: save fallen human beings from sin.

God’s desire to restore humanity brought Him back to Eden after Adam and Eve fell. God came to rebuild their altar, their connection to Him, a place to remember His goodness, a place of sacrifice and prayer. As we will learn this quarter, we can only rekindle our broken relationship with God when we rebuild our broken worship altars. Back to the Altar is a clarion call to daily personal communion with God as the source of life and truth.

### Journal

`Meditate on Genesis 3:1–15 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What can we learn about God’s character from how he responded to Adam and Eve’s sin?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`