---
title:  No Change in his Game
date:   03/04/2025
---

### inSight

After his violent expulsion from heaven, Satan determined to do all within his power to mar the beauty and innocence of God’s prized creations, Adam and Eve (Rev. 12:9). Such is Satan’s hatred for God, and more than six thousand years have done nothing to diminish his animus. He still works with feverish efficiency, even more so now that he knows his time is short (v. 12). While the attacks have multiplied and increased in frequency, they are all variations on a theme. They are unnervingly familiar. Ellen White wonderfully captures the essence of Satan’s false claims in this passage:

“By partaking of this tree, he declared, they would attain to a more exalted sphere of existence and enter a broader field of knowledge. He himself had eaten of the forbidden fruit, and as a result had acquired the power of speech. And he insinuated that the Lord jealously desired to withhold it from them, lest they should be exalted to equality with Himself. It was because of its wonderful properties, imparting wisdom and power, that He had prohibited them from tasting or even touching it. The tempter intimated that the divine warning was not to be actually fulfilled; it was designed merely to intimidate them. How could it be possible for them to die? Had they not eaten of the tree of life? God had been seeking to prevent them from reaching a nobler development and finding greater happiness.

“Such has been Satan’s work from the days of Adam to the present, and he has pursued it with great success. He tempts men to distrust God’s love and to doubt His wisdom. He is constantly seeking to excite a spirit of irreverent curiosity, a restless, inquisitive desire to penetrate the secrets of divine wisdom and power. In their efforts to search out what God has been pleased to withhold, multitudes overlook the truths which He has revealed, and which are essential to salvation. Satan tempts men to disobedience by leading them to believe they are entering a wonderful field of knowledge. But this is all a deception. Elated with their ideas of progression, they are, by trampling on God’s requirements, setting their feet in the path that leads to degradation and death.

“Satan represented to the holy pair that they would be gainers by breaking the law of God. Do we not today hear similar reasoning? Many talk of the narrowness of those who obey God’s commandments, while they themselves claim to have broader ideas and to enjoy greater liberty. What is this but an echo of the voice from Eden, ‘In the day ye eat thereof’—transgress the divine requirement—‘ye shall be as gods’?” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [1890], 54, 55).

### Journal

`After this week’s study, what personal applications are you convicted of in your relationship with God? How can you strengthen your connection with God?`

`What practical applications must you make as you interact with those whose relationship with God seems to be broken? How might you help them?`

`Review the memory verse. How did it apply to your life this week?`