---
title:  From Slaves to Heirs
date:   12/08/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God” (Gal. 4:7, ESV).

**Introduction**: Gal. 3:25–29

**Building Up the Temple of the Lord**

“It’s supposed to be hard.If it wasn’t hard everyone would do it.The hard is what makes it great.”* This quote has served as motivation for my current stage in life.Today is my second day of working out at my uncle’s gym.After a “leg day” yesterday and a “biceps and triceps day” today, I really can’t wait to see where else my body can pain tomorrow. My uncle has it all set out in a program for the week and the workouts for each day. He has knowledge of what exercises need to be done in order to work the relevant muscle groups while also taking into account a recovery period for them. He knows what needs to be done in order to achieve the goal.

**When you clothe yourself in Christ, you stake your claim in the royal family.**

The text speaks about us being the children of God through our faith in Christ Jesus. We are not to behave like slaves, but, rather, we are supposed to carry ourselves as sons and daughters of God. We need to know our Father before we can begin to behave as His children. We need to get to know Him, for He is not an absent Father. Rather, we are the children who run away.

One thing I’ve found is that the hardest part of my day is before I pray, but the easiest part of my day is after I do. I could literally be doing anything else, but it’s such a blessing once you make the time. We definitely won’t have the time until we make it. Morning devotion is like dressing up for school or work; you wouldn’t want to leave home with no clothes on.

Be careful of rushed prayer: you’ve dressed up and left home only to realize that you have put on only your pants. Clothing ourselves in our faith in Him is a daily activity that makes us all equal and family regardless of our background, ethnicity, or gender. When you clothe yourself in Christ, you stake your claim in the royal family. As such, you can walk around with the confidence of a prince or princess because your Father is the King of kings. When things get a bit hot under the collar, don’t remove your faith. If anything, that’s the time when you need to button it up.

I encourage you to try on the faith that shapes you and makes you anew. The faith in Jesus Christ will mold you into the person you were created to be.

<sup>* Tom Hanks, A League of Their Own, Reel Life Wisdom, accessed May 31, 2016, http://www .reellifewisdom.com/taxonomy/term/a_league_of_their_own.</sup>

_Darren J. Cecil, Durban, South Africa_