---
title:  Shackles of Slavery at Freedom’s Door
date:   13/08/2017
---

**Evidence**: Gal. 4:7

“Amandla awethu!” * Never before had pain and strength come together to form a force so strong, where soon even the bondage of a powerful government surrendered to freedom’s cry. The struggle of slavery and oppression under binding laws is not just a story South Africans tell their kids but a battle that left great scars on a now-healing nation. Slavery to the law that seemed to elevate one while oppressing and isolating the other is not just a literal tragedy but also something that is very real today, as it was in the time of Paul writing this letter to the Galatians.

**All who believe may enter into the family of God.**

Humanity has been bound by the shackles of slavery since the Garden of Eden. Throughout the Old Testament, we are reminded of the pain and sorrow this piercing shackle caused. Paul was speaking to the Galatians at a time during which the Gentiles had begun to hear the good news and join in fellowship along with the Jews. Of course, the Jews at the time were not fully accepting of the newly adopted family members and had begun imposing rules and regulations upon the Gentiles.Be circumcised; keep the feast days; do this and do that. Overwhelmed, the Gentiles began to feel a sense of bondage yet again—this time not just to sin but to laws that were presented as the only means to attain salvation and appease God.

Similarly, the Jews felt the kingdom was rightly their inheritance as promised toAbraham.Why should an undeserving, non-law-abiding Gentile be offered a seat at the banquet anyway?

The answer to this question is the theme of this Pauline letter. He shares hope—hope for those bound by sins but also hope for those who feel that in order to please a perfect God, they must first perfectly keep His laws.This is a perversion of the gospel, for in ourselves we can do nothing. But through faith in Christ, we can have the patience of the saints and keep the commandments of God.The book of Galatians reminds us that the door to spiritual freedom has been opened and all who believe may enter into the family of God.

**React**

What do you feel are some of the binding laws we place on ourselves and those around us that could be hindering us from accepting the pure, simple truth of the gospel while we’re busy trying to purchase our spot in heaven?

<sup>* A rallying cry popularized during the Apartheid movement: “Power to us!”</sup>

_Christelle Govender, Durban, Kwa Zulu Natal, South Africa_