---
title:  Princes and Princesses
date:   14/08/2017
---

**Logos**: Gal. 3:25–29

**Our Condition in Christ** (Job 29:14; Rom. 6:1–11; 8:17; Gal. 3:25– 29; 1 Pet. 3:21)

“And if you are Christ’s, then you are Abraham’s seed, and heirs according to the promise” (Gal. 3:29, NKJV). We can only “be Christ’s” if we surrender our lives to Him and are born again. Baptism is not the removal of the filth of the flesh but the answer of a good conscience toward God (1 Pet. 3:21). During a baptism service, we might hear the pastor or the elder referring to the candidates entering the “watery grave.” That’s exactly what it is, because this is where we are reborn.We let go of what we were and come out as the new beings Christ wants us to be:His people.We do not belong to Satan.By getting baptized, we have chosen whose side we are on.

**We are His heirs.**

However, it does not stop there.Yes, we are new.Yes, heaven rejoices, but Satan is mad and wants to get us back on his side.As a result, he tries everything to get us back on his side. However, rest assured because we can receive somuchmoreifweremainin Christ.Itiswhere we belong.WehaveHis promises that reassure us of this: “ ‘If you ask anything in My name, I will do it’ ” (John 14:14, NKJV); “For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, says the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you a future and a hope” (Jer. 29:11, NKJV); “ ‘Therefore do not worry, saying, “What shall we eat?” or “What shall we drink?” or “What shall we wear?” ’ ” (Matt. 6:31, NKJV). Verse 33 continues by saying, “ ‘But seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you’ ” (NKJV). What more could one hope for or want when we have these promises?

**God Sent Forth His Son** (John 1:14; Gal. 4:4, 5; Rom. 8:3, 4; 2 Cor. 5:21; Phil. 2:5–8; Heb. 2:14–18; 4:14, 15)

Why did Jesus come to earth? Our usual answer is “to seek and save that which was lost,” but why did this need to happen? Let’s go back to the begin-ning.AfterAdam and Eve had eaten the fruit, God made His plan of salvation known. “And I will put enmity / Between you and the woman, / And between your seed and her Seed;/ He shall bruise your head, /And you shall bruise His heel”(Gen.3:15, NKJV).This text foretells that Jesus would come “to redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons” (Gal. 4:5, NKJV).

When Jesus was on Earth, He showed us that even though the world is full of sin, it is possible to live a sinless life. He is able to sympathize with our weaknesses, because He was tempted when at His weakest yet remained sinless (Heb.4:14, 15). He also showed us how we should live. He knew that He is the Son of the Most High, yet He came as a baby, lived a less-than-average life, without any “airs and graces.” Why do we find it hard to do the same? In order to make it to heaven, we have to live the way Jesus did and have the same mind-set (Phil 2:5–8).

When Jesus said “It is finished” and the veil in the temple tore from top to bottom, He meant that the ceremonial laws were no more. We don’t need to perform sacrifices—Jesus was the ultimate sacrifice! We don’t need a mortal high priest—Jesus is our High Priest! He is there interceding on our part. We now have direct access to our Father in heaven.

**Why Turn Back to Slavery?** (Mark 2:27, 28; Luke 13:10–16; Gal. 4:8–20)

The Sabbath was made for us. We weren’t made for the Sabbath (Mark 2:27, 28). God wanted us to have that day to rest. Can you imagine working for eight hours a day, seven days a week? We would be drained emotionally and physically. God had a plan. He didn’t have to rest on the seventh day, but He did. Why? He wanted to show us the purpose of the Sabbath and how to observe it.

There is an argument about the Sabbath not being there at Creation. But let’s think about this: our parents taught us to speak, how to hold our bottle, and how to use the spoon. Crawling, walking, and running, all, we learned by watching. In the same way, even though the commandments weren’t there at Creation, the Sabbath had been kept since the beginning, as our parents in Eden had learned from their Creator. It was passed down through the generations to the time of Moses. However, when Moses led the Israelites out of Egypt, God saw that they were not living the life He intended them to live, and He wrote the Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai. God wants us to worship Him, not be slaves to this world and all it has to offer.

When Jesus walked on Earth, He performed miracles: healing the sick, causing the blind to see, raising the dead, and many, many more. In Luke 13:10–16, Jesus was accused of breaking the Sabbath, but He in actual fact was showing us what could be done on the Sabbath. Laws are there to guide us. God loves us with an everlasting love. He has shown this to us in many ways. However, we choose the world over Him time and time again. God is waiting to come into our hearts (Rev. 3:20). Once we let Him in, He will take usto places that fadein comparison towhatthis world has to offer.WeareHis heirs.

**React**

`1. How does it feel to know that you are not a mere number in this world, but an heir?`

`2. Read Galatians 3:1–3.What elementary principles do we find ourselves bound to?`

_Melissa Naidoo, Woodhurst, Durban, South Africa_