---
title:  “God Sent Forth His Son”
date:   15/08/2017
---

**Testimony**: John 1:14; Gal. 4:4, 5; Rom. 8:3, 4; 2 Cor. 5:21; Phil. 2:5–8; Heb. 2:14–18; 4:14, 15

“Christ assumed human nature, that He might reach humanity, and at the same time through His divinity lay hold of divine power. He became a man, that men and women might become one with Him as He is one with the Father. While on this earth He was tempted and tried in all points like as we are. He says to every believing child, ‘Fear not; I have overcome the world. The victories that I gained make it possible for you to be more than a conqueror.’ ”1

**“The life that He lived in this world, men can live, through His power and under His instruction.”**

“All things proclaimed the urgent necessity on the earth of a Teacher sent from God,—a Teacher in whom divinity and humanity would be united. It was essential that Christ should appear in human form, and stand at the head of the human race, to uplift fallen human beings. Thus only could God be revealed to the world.

“Christ volunteered to lay aside His royal robe and kingly crown, and come to this earth to show to human beings what they may be in co-operation with God. He came to shine amidst the darkness, to dispel the darkness by the brightness of His presence.

“When in the fullness of time the Son of the infinite God came forth from the bosom of the Father to this world, He came in the garb of humanity, clothing His divinity with humanity.The Father and the Son in consultation decided that Christ must come to the world as a babe, and live the life that human beings must live from childhood to manhood, bearing the trials that they must bear, and at the same time living a sinless life, that men might see in Him an example of what they can become, and that He might know by experience how to help them in their struggles with sin. He was tried as man is tried, tempted as man is tempted.The life that He lived in this world, men can live, through His power and under His instruction.”2

**React**

`1. If Christ made the ultimate sacrifice and left His glory above for you, what do you think you ought to do in return?`

`2. Do you think there are similarities between the scribes and Pharisees and us as Seventh-day Adventists? How can we change that? How can we live like Jesus?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, “A High Standard,” Pacific Union Recorder, February 9, 1905.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, “A Teacher Sent From God,” The Signs of the Times, May 17, 1905.</sup>

_Christopher Hammond, Havenside, Chatsworth, Durban, South Africa_