---
title:  Spiritual Freedom
date:   16/08/2017
---

**How-to**: Gal. 4:1-7

When we look at the word slave, it has a very negative connotation. The following definition is taken from Merriam-Webster: “Someone who is legally owned by another person and is forced to work for that person without pay.”1 This is also our general understanding of a slave; however, the second definition of a slave seems more appropriate in our daily lives: “A person who is strongly influenced and controlled by something.” I think that in our daily lives we have become slaves unto ourselves, and there are so many things that we have control over, but we just let them control us.

**We are given the opportunity to just claim the promise to be royalty.**

Now if we look at the term heir, it makes us feel as though we’ve just taken a 180-degree turn. As per Merriam-Webster the definition of an heir is, “A person who has the legal right to receive the property of someone who dies,” or “a person who has the right to become a king or queen or to claim a title when the person holding it dies.”2

When we look at these two terms, it is like chalk and cheese or more like an extreme case of a low-class society and high-class society with absolutely no middle ground. In Galatians 4, we can see that they are told not to live and act as slaves but to embrace the rights and privileges of an heir because they are sons and daughters of God. How awesome is that! We are given the opportunity to just claim the promise to be royalty. Here are a few ways we may go about doing this:

_1. Look around and identify what enslaves us._ This could be anything from the things we do to people we spend time with and so forth.

_2. Identify the how and why._ Figure out why this item or thing has us in its snare and how we ended up in this position where the thing that we have been given dominion to control controls us.

_3. Make a pointed effort to break this._ If, for example, you are strapped for time, take five minutes. Sit back and reanalyze everything. Is all that you’re doing necessary? How can you rearrange it so that you are managing your own time and not being managed by it?

All of these small day-to-day things, if managed correctly, can ultimately lead us to our spiritual freedom.

<sup>1. Merriam-Webster Online, s.v. “slave,” accessed May 31, 2016, http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/slave.</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid., s.v. “heir,” accessed May 31, 2016, http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/heir.</sup>

_Germaine Melody Cecil, Hillary, Durban, South Africa_