---
title:  Prison Break
date:   17/08/2017
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 6:1–11; Gal. 4:8–20

Imagine for a moment you were in a prison. You’re probably picturing orange jumpsuits, tattoos, disgusting food, no freedom, and intimidating inmates, right? Wrong. This unique spiritual prison has personalized temptations created by the great deceiver, Satan, to entice us. Some of the facilities include sins that clearly enslave, such as drugs, alcohol, lust for money, fornication, homosexuality, or pornography. Other areas include such sins as lying, pride, fits of rage, and discord, which are rarely talked about but can still be spiritually fatal (Gal. 5:19–21).

**He’s offering us a get-out-of-jail-free card called salvation!**

The problem we face is that no matter how much we try to get out of jail early on good behavior and no matter how much we obey the law, it is of no use. It will not set us free. We cannot save ourselves by obeying the law, by attending church every Sabbath, or by living as monks (Eph.2:8).The only way to get out of this spiritual prison regardless of the sin is Jesus’ precious, cleansing blood. It is the only remedy for sin’s spiritual bondage.

Moreover, when we seek Jesus’ blood and salvation, by coming to know Jesus in a personal way, we get to have a personal relationship with Him and simultaneously escape sin’s bondage (2 Pet. 2:20). We are bound by our captor Satan in our own spiritual prisons.But there is hope.Jesus has already paid our bail: the highest bail ever set.The price is the blood of Jesus and His death on the cross to save you and me.The real question is, do we want our freedom, or are we happy being slaves to sin?

Sometimes we unknowingly cling to our chains of sin. Remember that it’s never too late to turn back to Jesus and that we are no longer slaves to sin but “heirs” of God (Gal. 4:7). Remember that no matter what temptation you’re facing in your life, there is power in the name of Jesus to break every chain.

Jesus has a great plan for us, to set us free from our spiritual bondage—a prison break: He’s offering us a get-out-of-jail-free card called salvation! All you have to do is accept it, repent, and turn your life back to Him today. He loves you and is waiting with a getaway car to take you to heaven one day soon.

**React**

`1. Why do you think it is so easy to fall back into spiritual bondage or into old sinful habits, and how can we prevent it?`

`2. What is holding you back from accepting Jesus’ get-out-of-jail-free card today?`

_Chenay Charles, Durban, South Africa_