---
title:  Free Slavery
date:   18/08/2017
---

**Exploration**: Gal. 4:7

**Conclude**

The thought of being enslaved to anything in life fills most human beings with dread.Yet, across our world each day we witness people who are slaves to pleasure, illicit drugs, consumerism, violence, and a host of other ills. It is into this milieu that God beckons us to become slaves to Jesus Christ. While many in our culture see submission to the life offered by Jesus Christ as little more than an invitation for exploitation with a faint promise of something better to come, those who take Christ up on His offer receive a “grace exchange.” They receive His sinless life; His atoning death; His resurrection power; His intercession in the heavenly sanctuary on their behalf; and, one day soon, His return. The slavery to which Christ invites us is one in which we obtain true freedom and gain peace with God.

**Consider**

- Conducting video interviews with several friends, asking each to respond to the following questions: What does it mean to be a slave to sin? What does it mean to be a slave to Jesus Christ? Why do some people choose to remain under the yoke of sin instead of accepting the yoke of Jesus Christ?
- Reading and meditating on Romans 6:1–11, specifically on what the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ accomplished for human beings.
- Analyzing the way in which faiths such as Hinduism, Buddhism, or Islam address the issue of sin and salvation—if those faiths hold such teachings. Compare and contrast the way provided for human beings to overcome sin with the one found in 2 Corinthians 5:21.
- Composing a song based on John 1:14.Think about the spiritual condition of the world at the time when Jesus arrived. Furthermore, consider the form Jesus took to begin this most important of tasks.
- Sharing with a friend your personal testimony of the difference Jesus made in your life after you surrendered it to Him.
- Thinking of how Christ’s sacrifice has affected the natural world. What does Romans 8:18–20 tell us about how sin affected the natural world? Why is the created world yearning for the sons of God to be revealed?

**Connect**

- Isaiah 53; Matthew 11:28–30; 2 Corinthians 12:9.
- Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chapter 3, “The Fullness of Time”; chapter 4, “Unto You a Savior.”

_Dwain Esmond, Gaithersburg, Maryland, USA_