---
title:  The Death of Sarah
date:  17/05/2022
---

In Genesis 22:23, we see the report of the birth of Rebekah, which anticipates the future marriage between Isaac and Rebekah (Genesis 24). Likewise, the report of the death and burial of Abraham’s wife, Sarah (Genesis 23), anticipates his future marriage with Keturah (Gen. 25:1–4).

`Read Genesis 23. What function does the story of Sarah’s death and burial play in the fulfillment of God’s promise to Abraham?`

The mention of the death of Sarah after the story of the sacrifice of Isaac suggests that she might have been affected by this incident, which almost cost her son’s life. In some way, Sarah also was involved in the “test” with her husband, just as she was in his travels and his occasional lapses in faith (Gen. 12:11–13).

Though we don’t know how much Sarah knew about the incident after it occurred, we can infer that she probably learned of it eventually. Sarah was not the kind of woman who would keep quiet on matters that were of significance or were disturbing her (compare with Gen. 16:3–5; Gen. 18:15; Gen. 21:9, 10). Her absence and her silence, and even the timing of her death following that dramatic event, say more about her relevance to the events than did her physical presence. The fact that Sarah’s old age is mentioned (Gen. 23:1), in echo to Abraham’s old age (Gen. 24:1), shows her importance to the story.

In fact, Sarah is the only woman in the Old Testament of whom the number of her years is mentioned, which could show her involvement in the story even after the fact. The focus on the purchase of Sarah’s burial place (which covers most of the chapter), rather than on her death, emphasizes the connection with the Promised Land.

Already, the specification that she died “in the land of Canaan” (Gen. 23:2) underlines the rooting of Sarah’s death in God’s promise of the land. Sarah is the first of Abraham’s clan to have died and been buried in the Promised Land. Abraham’s concern about himself, “ ‘a foreigner and a visitor’ ” (Gen. 23:4, NKJV), and his insistent argument with the sons of Heth, show that Abraham is interested not just in acquiring a burial place; he is primarily concerned with settling in the land permanently.

`Read Genesis 23:6. What does this tell us about the kind of reputation Abraham had? Why is this important in understanding what he was used by the Lord to do?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Sarah was the first and only true wife of Abraham. She was entitled to rights, as a wife and mother, which no other could have in the family. She reverenced her husband, calling him lord; but she was jealous lest his affections should be divided with Hagar. God did not rebuke Sarah for the course she pursued. Abraham was reproved by the angels for distrusting God’s power, which had led him to take Hagar as his wife, and to think that through her the promise would be fulfilled. . . .<br/>
Abraham . . . did not reveal the true nature of his journey to Sarah, knowing that her affection for Isaac would lead her to distrust God, and withhold her son. Abraham did not suffer paternal feelings to control him, and lead him to rebel against God. The command of God was calculated to stir the depths of his soul. “Take now thy son.” Then as though to probe the heart a little deeper, he adds, “thine only son whom thou lovest.” That is, the only son of promise, “and offer him as a burnt-offering.”—Spiritual Gifts, vol. 3, pp. 104–106.

The heritage that God has promised to His people is not in this world. Abraham had no possession in the earth, “no, not so much as to set his foot on.” Acts 7:5. He possessed great substance, and he used it to the glory of God and the good of his fellow men; but he did not look upon this world as his home. The Lord had called him to leave his idolatrous countrymen, with the promise of the land of Canaan as an everlasting possession; yet neither he nor his son nor his son’s son received it. When Abraham desired a burial place for his dead, he had to buy it of the Canaanites. His sole possession in the Land of Promise was that rock-hewn tomb in the cave of Machpelah.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 169.

My sickness has taught me my own weakness, and my Saviour’s patience and love, and His power to save. . . . He sees our weakness, He knows how we lack faith and courage; yet He does not cast us off. He is pitiful and of tender compassion toward us.<br/>
I may fall at my post before the Lord shall come; but when all that are in their graves shall come forth, I shall, if faithful, see Jesus, and be made like Him. Oh, what joy unspeakable, to see Him whom we love,—to see Him in His glory who so loved us that He gave Himself for us,—to behold those hands once pierced for our redemption, stretched out to us in blessing and welcome! What will it matter though we toil and suffer here, if we may only attain to the resurrection of life! We will patiently wait till our time of trial ends, and then we shall raise the glad shout of victory.”—Life Sketches, p. 266.