---
title:  A Wife for Isaac
date:  18/05/2022
---

Genesis 24 tells the story of the marriage of Isaac after Sarah’s death. The two stories are related.

`Read Genesis 24. Why is Abraham so concerned that his son not marry a woman from the Canaanites?`

Just as Abraham wanted to acquire the land in order to bury his wife, because of God’s promise to his descendants that they would have this land, he now insists that Isaac not settle outside of the Promised Land either (Gen. 24:7). Also, Isaac’s move to bring his bride to Sarah’s tent and the note that Rebekah comforted Isaac “after his mother’s death” (Gen. 24:67) point back to Sarah’s death, implying Isaac’s pain at the loss of his mother.

The story is full of prayers and fulfillment of prayers and rich with lessons about God’s providence and human freedom. It begins with Abraham’s words. Swearing by “ ‘the Lord, the God of heaven and the God of the earth’ ” (Gen. 24:3, NKJV), Abraham is first of all acknowledging God as the Creator (Gen. 1:1, Gen. 14:19), with a direct bearing on the births of Abraham’s descendants, including the Messiah Himself.

The reference to “ ‘His angel’ ” and to “ ‘the Lord God of heaven’ ” (Gen. 24:7, NKJV) points back to the Angel of the Lord, who came from heaven to rescue Isaac from being slaughtered (Gen. 22:11). The God who controls the universe, the Angel of the Lord who intervened to save Isaac, will lead in this question of marriage.

Abraham leaves open, however, the possibility that the woman will not respond to God’s call. As powerful as He is, God does not force humans to obey Him. Although God’s plan for Rebekah is to follow Eliezer, she retains her freedom of choice. That is, it was possible that this woman would not want to come, and if not, she would not be forced to.

Hence, we see here another example of the great mystery of how God has given us, as humans, free will, free choice, a freedom that He will not trample on. (If He did trample, it would not be free will.) And yet, somehow, despite the reality of human free will, and many of the terrible choices humans make with that free will, we can still trust that in the end God’s love and goodness, ultimately, will prevail.

`Why is it so comforting to know that while not all things are God’s will, He is still in charge? How do prophecies like Daniel 2, for instance, prove this point to us?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Abraham had become an old man, and expected soon to die; yet one act remained for him to do in securing the fulfillment of the promise to his posterity. Isaac was the one divinely appointed to succeed him as the keeper of the law of God and the father of the chosen people, but he was yet unmarried. The inhabitants of Canaan were given to idolatry, and God had forbidden intermarriage between His people and them, knowing that such marriages would lead to apostasy. The patriarch feared the effect of the corrupting influences surrounding his son. Abraham’s habitual faith in God and submission to His will were reflected in the character of Isaac; but the young man’s affections were strong, and he was gentle and yielding in disposition. If united with one who did not fear God, he would be in danger of sacrificing principle for the sake of harmony. In the mind of Abraham the choice of a wife for his son was a matter of grave importance; he was anxious to have him marry one who would not lead him from God.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 171.

“And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming. And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she lighted off the camel. For she had said unto the servant, What man is that that walketh in the field to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master: therefore she took a veil, and covered herself. And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done. And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah’s tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was comforted after his mother’s death.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 173.

One victory it is positively essential . . . to gain, [is] the victory over the stubborn will. In this struggle you can conquer only by the aid of Christ. You may struggle hard and long to subdue self, but you will fail unless you receive strength from on high. By the grace of Christ you can gain the victory over self and selfishness. As you live His life, showing self-sacrifice at every step, constantly revealing a stronger sympathy for those in need of help, you will gain victory after victory. Day by day you will learn better how to conquer self and how to strengthen your weak points of character. The Lord Jesus will be your light, your strength, your crown of rejoicing, because you yield your will to His will.<br/>
Men and women may reach God’s ideal for them if they will take Christ as their Helper. Make an unreserved surrender to God. To know that you are striving for eternal life will strengthen and comfort you. Christ can give you power to overcome. By His help you can utterly destroy the root of selfishness.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, p. 49.