---
title:  The Good News and the Church
date:   16/09/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Galatians 6:1–10; Matthew 18:15–17; 1 Corinthians 10:12; Romans 15:1; John 13:34; Luke 22:3.

><p>Memory verse</p>
> “So when we can do good to everyone, let us do it. [Let us] try even harder to do good to the family of believers” (Galatians 6:10, NIrV).

“At the end of harvest, some farmers chose to keep for themselves the biggest vegetables they had grown. They chose to plant seeds from the smallest vegetables for next year’s crops. But then something terrible happened. Instead of big harvests the next year, the farmers got small ones. Those farmers learned a very important law of life.

“They learned they could not keep the best things of life for themselves and use the leftovers for the seed. The law of life made it clear that the harvest was a result of the planting. Put in a lot and receive a lot. Put in little, receive little.

“We still do what these farmers did. We take the big things in life for ourselves and ‘plant’ the leftovers. And we think that this selfishness will be rewarded.”—Adapted, International Student Fellowship Newsletter, March 2007.

Paul uses this same rule of life in Galatians 6:1–10. He says members should not “say or do things that harm one another” (Galatians 5:15, NIrV). Instead, the church should be a place where the Holy Spirit leads us to put others before ourselves. We are saved by what Jesus did for us on the cross. This fact should help us not to feel proud. And it should help us to be patient with others and to be kind and loving to them, too.