---
title:  Bringing the fallen back to God
date:   17/09/2017
---

_Galatians 6:1_

`Read Galatians 6:1 and Matthew 18:15–17. What do Paul and Jesus say Christians should do when a believer does wrong?`

We need to understand what kind of situation Paul is talking about in Galatians 6:1. The first word that helps us understand what Paul means is “caught” (NIrV). It means “to capture and not allow a person or thing to escape.” Paul uses the word “caught” in two different ways. First, the word can point to a situation in which a believer catches another believer doing something wrong. But “caught” also can mean being overtaken by a sin (read Proverbs 5:22, NET) that a believer normally would have chosen to avoid.

Paul’s word choice in Galatians shows he is talking about a sin that a person normally would not do. The word “sin” (NIrV) comes from the Greek word paraptoma. It does not mean a sin that someone sets out to do. Instead, it means a mistake or a stumble. It means to step in the wrong direction by accident. Also, Paul has just finished talking about “walking” in the Spirit. And so, this idea of walking helps us to understand what Paul means by stepping or stumbling in the wrong direction. Now, stepping in the wrong direction by accident does not excuse the mistake of the person who stumbles into sin. But Paul is not talking about people who set out to sin on purpose and have no sorrow for the wrong they do (1 Corinthians 5:1–5).

We should not punish, criticize, or turn from those who stumble into sin. Instead, we should bring them back to God. The NIrV says we should “correct” such persons. The word “correct” comes from the Greek word katartiz o. It means “to mend or fix” or “to put back in order.” In the New Testament, katartiz o is used to mean “mending” fishnets (Matthew 4:21, NET). And it also is used as a medical word in Greek literature to talk about setting a broken bone. We never would turn away from a believer who fell and broke a leg. So, we should not turn away from our brothers and sisters in Christ who stumble and fall. After all, we are all walking together on the path to God’s kingdom.

`Often we are guilty of talking badly about someone with whom we are angry. Or we let our anger quietly grow inside us. Or we may even plan revenge. Instead, we should follow Jesus’ words in Matthew 18:15–17. But why do we so often do the opposite instead?`