---
title:  Be careful not to fall into sin
date:   18/09/2017
---

_1 Corinthians 10:12_

**“Then Nathan said to David, ‘You are the man!’ ” (2 Samuel 12:7, NIrV).**

Paul warns us in Galatians 6:1–10 to guard our very lives to avoid falling into sin. This warning is very serious. The wording Paul uses in his warning shows his deep concern. The word translated as “be careful” (NIrV) means “to look at carefully” or “to pay attention to.” (Read Romans 16:17 and Philippians 2:4 for other examples of how the word is translated.) So, Paul is saying, “Watch out! Or sin will take you by surprise.” Paul switches from talking to “brothers and sisters” in the first part of the verse to “you” (meaning just one person) in the last half of the verse. What this switch means is that Paul’s warning is for each person in the church.

Paul does not name the temptation he warns believers against. Maybe he does not have a certain sin in mind. Instead, he could be pointing believers to the danger of falling into the same sin they are trying to turn another person away from. At the same time, Paul’s words in Galatians

5:26 also warn against becoming “proud” (NIrV). Paul warns believers not to feel that they are in some way better than the people whom they are bringing back to God.

`Read the warnings against feeling proud in 1 Corinthians 10:12; Matthew 26:34; and 2 Samuel 12: 1–7. Why would Paul need to warn the Galatians against feeling they are better than others spiritually?`

Feeling proud is one of the greatest dangers to the Christian walk. It makes us think we are somehow protected from falling into certain kinds of sin. The truth is that we are all fallen. We are born wanting to do the opposite of what God wants us to do. So, we must place ourselves under the power of God’s Spirit. He will save us from what is wrong. Otherwise, we could fall into just about any sin, depending on the situation. So, we must remember that without Christ we are helpless sinners. This thought helps us not to feel proud. And it helps us to feel more forgiving toward others who make mistakes.

`How often have you criticized others for sins that one day you found yourself doing?`