---
title:  Carrying heavy loads
date:   19/09/2017
---

_Galatians 6:2–5_

`Read Galatians 6:2–5. In these verses, what else does Paul tell the believers in Galatia to do? Read also Romans 15:1 and Matthew 7:12.`

The word “load” in Galatians 6:2 comes from the Greek word baros. It means a heavy load someone had to carry for a long distance. Over time, baros became a word picture for any type of difficulty. For example, it could mean a long day’s work in the heat (Matthew 20:12). So, Paul tells us to “carry one another’s heavy loads” (Galatians 6:2, NIrV). This command certainly includes being kind to people when they fall. But Paul’s idea of carrying a load means so much more. In fact, Paul’s command shows several spiritual truths about the Christian life. Let us look at them.

First, as Timothy George notes, “All Christians carry heavy loads. Some people carry the heavy load that comes from falling into sin. For others, their heavy load may be sickness of mind or body. Or perhaps it could be family troubles, not having a job, being attacked by demons, or something else. But no Christian has a life free from heavy loads.”—Adapted, Galatians, page 413.

Second, God does not mean for us to carry all our loads alone. But often we are better at helping others carry their loads than letting them help us carry ours. Paul speaks against such pride (Galatians 6:3). A proud heart refuses to accept it has needs and weaknesses.And our proud hearts prevent others from doing the work God has given them to do to help us.

Finally, God asks us to carry the loads of others. It is through our kindness to others that God’s love and comfort are shown. Paul gives an example of this kindness in 2 Corinthians 7:6. This verse shows how God comforted Paul through his friend and the good news this friend brought.

“Friendship is part of God’s plan for His people. In friendship, we carry one another’s loads.”—Adapted, John R. W. Stott, The Message of Galatians, page 158.

`What stops you from asking others for help? Is it a proud heart? Is it feeling ashamed of needing help? Or is it not being able to trust? Or is it that you feel you need no help? Why not find someone you trust and ask this person to help carry your load?`