---
title:  The law of Christ
date:   20/09/2017
---

_Galatians 5:14_

`Read Galatians 5:14; Galatians 6:2; John 13:34; and Matthew 22:34–40. Paul connects carrying a heavy spiritual load with obeying the law of Christ. What does Paul mean by “the law of Christ” (Galatians 6:2, NIrV)?`

Paul uses the wording “the law of Christ” in Galatians 6:2. This wording in Greek is ton nomon tou Christou. Bible thinkers have come up with many possible meanings for it. Some of their ideas are wrong. For example, some thinkers believe that this wording is proof that the law of God given at Sinai has been replaced by a different law. That different law is the law of Christ. Others claim that the word “law” simply means a rule. (Read Romans 7:21.) And so, those who carry the loads of others are following Jesus’ example. The last example has some truth to it.

But the verses before and after Galatians 6:2 and also Galatians 5:14 show us something else. They show us that honoring the law of Christ means to obey His law through love. Paul showed earlier in his letter that the law of God was not destroyed by the coming of Christ. Instead, the law of God still has an important part in the Christian life today. Jesus taught the importance of the law during His work on earth. He also lived this truth His whole life here, even at His death. So, we must carry the loads of others. Then we will be following in the footsteps of Jesus. And we will be obeying the law of love.

We also find what seems like a disagreement between Galatians 6:2 and Galatians 6:5. But this problem is easily solved. How? By realizing that Paul is using two different words to describe two different situations. We already have seen that the word for “loads” in Galatians 6:2 is baros. It means a heavy load that must be carried for a long distance. In Galatians 6:5, Paul uses the word phortion. This word can mean a ship’s cargo, a soldier’s backpack, or even an unborn child inside its mother. Cargoes and backpacks can be set down. But not unborn babies. This example shows that there are some burdens that no human can carry for us. For example, no one can carry another person’s guilt, suffering, or death. We must lean only on God for help with these things (Matthew 11:28–30).

`Why must you give to the Lord the things that you cannot carry? How can you learn to do that?`