---
title:  Planting and gathering the crop
date:   21/09/2017
---

_Galatians 6:6–8_

In Galatians 6:7, Paul says, “You [cannot] outsmart God” (NIrV).The word “outsmart”comes from the Greek word mukterizo. It means “to turn up one’s nose in scorn at someone.” In the Old Testament, this word often is used to describe how poorly God’s messengers were treated (2 Chronicles 36:16; Jeremiah 20:7). Once it is even used to describe how God’s own people were “making fun” of Him (Ezekiel 8:17, NIrV).

Paul’s point is that people may ignore God. They may break His law. But they cannot fool Him. In the end, they will pay the price for the wrong they choose to do.

`What does Paul mean in Galatians 6:8? What examples of Bible characters can you find who “planted” sin in the flesh or “planted” goodness in the Spirit? (For example, read Acts 5:1–5; Luke 22:3; Daniel 1:8; and Matthew 4:1.)`

Paul’s word picture about planting and gathering the crop is not new. But what is special is how he uses it. He uses it to draw attention to his earlier words about the flesh and the Spirit. James D. G. Dunn helps explain the meaning of Paul’s word picture: “We are free to choose. But we are not free to choose the results of our choice.”—Adapted, Galatians, page 330.

God does not always free us from the results of the sins we do on this earth. But we should not lose hope. We can be happy that God has forgiven our sins and adopted us. So, we should take advantage of the opportunities before us to do those things that will bring others to God.

Galatians 6:10 shows, “There are two parts to what we call Christian ethics. [Ethics is the study of what is the right and wrong way to behave.] The first part concerns our responsibility to the world at large: ‘So when we can do good to everyone, let us do it.’ But the second part is more particular, ‘[Let us] try even harder to do good to the family of believers.’ Paul bases his appeal to do good to others on the fact that all persons everywhere are made in the likeness of God. So each one is precious to Him. But sometimes Christians forget this fact. And then they treat people badly for being different from themselves.”—Adapted, Timothy George, Galatians,pages 427, 428.

`You are planting either for good or evil. Look at your life. What kind of crop are you going to gather?`