---
title:  Additional thought
date:   22/09/2017
---

“God’s Spirit gives the mind power over evil. But what if some refuse to accept the Spirit’s help? Then they will gather a crop of sin. The Spirit will have less power to stop them from planting seeds of disobedience. And His warnings will have less strength over their minds.After a time, they will lose a fear of God.Then they will plant sin and gather a crop of death.The harvest of the sinful seed they planted will ripen.And they will have no respect for God’s law. As a result, the heart of flesh becomes the heart of stone.The heart that turns away from the truth shows how sinful it is. In the days before the Flood, men planted seeds of evil. And crime and rough force ruled in the world.

“All should be wise about how the soul is destroyed. God gives enough light and proof to help us know right from wrong. But God does not force us to accept truth. He leaves us free to choose good or evil. Suppose a person rejects God’s light and chooses evil. Then he or she will choose it more easily the second time. And the third. Each time it becomes easier to withdraw from God and stand on the side of Satan. This path will lead him or her to believe that lies are truth. Turning away from God produces such a terrible harvest.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 6, page 1112.

#### Discussion questions

`1. Suppose a fellow believer falls into sin. What does it mean to bring him or her back to God? How does the mistake made affect the process of bringing him or her back? Does bringing this person back mean everything will be the same as before? Explain.`

`2. There are some loads people must carry on their own (Galatians 6:5). So, how does a believer decide when he or she should help someone?`

`3. How does your church live up to Paul’s advice in Galatians 6? How can you make a difference in helping your church do so?`

**Summary**: A Christlike spirit shown in the church is a sign that God is among His people. God’s Spirit can be seen in the way we forgive those who sin and in the way that we bring them back to God. God’s Spirit also is shown in how we help one another through difficult times. And He is seen in the kindness we show to one another and to unbelievers.