---
title:  Making Excuses
date:   28/10/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Nahum 3:1–4; 2 Kings 17:5, 6; Jonah 2:1–3, 7–10; Jonah 3; Jonah 4; Isaiah 6:1–8.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Then I heard the Lord’s voice, saying, ‘Who can I send? Who will go for us?’ So I said, ‘Here I am. Send me!’ ” (Isaiah 6:8, ERV).

God chooses people to serve Him. But not everyone is willing to serve God as Abraham was. Look at Jonah (read Jonah 1–4). God commands Jonah to warn the people of Nineveh. Nineveh was the capital city of the Kingdom of Assyria. Nineveh was located in the area that is now modern-day Iraq. The distance between Nineveh and Jerusalem was one month’s journey. Jonah refused to go. Worse, he ran as far away from Nineveh as he could get. Jonah went to Joppa and got on a ship going to Tarshish, located in what is now the south of Spain. The journey from Joppa to Tarshish was 2,000 miles. This trip would take a month, if the weather was good, and more time if it wasn’t. Jonah uses the month that it takes to get to Nineveh to get away from it. Jonah was a man of God. Why would he do that?

The Ninevites were evil people. They attacked Israel in the past. God asks Jonah to go to Nineveh anyway to warn the people there to stop doing evil (Jonah 1:2). The words in Jonah 1:2 are very much the same as the words God uses when he talks to Abraham about Sodom and Gomorrah (Genesis 18:20, 21). As we will see, Jonah was no Abraham.

What can we learn from Jonah about the excuses we make to get out of doing the work that God gives us to do?