---
title:  'Excuse #1: Fear'
date:   29/10/2023
---

`Read Nahum 1:1; Nahum 3:1–4; 2 Kings 17:5, 6; and 2 Kings 19:32–37. What do these verses tell us about Nineveh and the connection between Assyria and Israel? Do you think this connection had anything to do with why Jonah decided to go to Tarshish and not to Nineveh?`

One reason Jonah may not have wanted to go to Nineveh was fear. The Assyrians were powerful and frightening.

“Nineveh was one of the most powerful cities in Old Testament times. . . . Nineveh was filled with crime and sin. Nahum, a messenger from God, said Nineveh was ‘a city of murderers [killers]! It [Nineveh] is full of liars! It is filled with stolen goods!’ Nahum compared the Ninevites to a mean and nasty lion who was very hungry. Nahum asked the Ninevites, ‘Is there anyone who has not suffered because of how badly you treated [attacked] them?’ Nahum 3:1, 19 [ERV, NIrV].”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 265, adapted.

History writers tell us that the Assyrian King Sennacherib built many things in Nineveh. He built a very large palace in the southwest part of the city. The palace was 1,650 feet long and 794 feet wide (503 meters long and 242 meters wide). The palace had at least 80 rooms. Sennacherib also built 18 canals. The canals brought water to Nineveh from as far away as 40 miles (65 kilometers).

The Assyrians made beautiful things. But they also showed no mercy to their enemies. Sennacherib bragged about the nasty things he did to the Babylonians when he fought them. Sennacherib filled the streets of Babylon with the dead bodies of its citizens. He killed young and old people alike. Scientists who dig in the earth to learn about the past have found pictures carved into stone from that time. These stone pictures show Assyrian soldiers pushing sharp pointed weapons through the bodies of their enemies. Assyrians were not people you wanted to make angry. The Assyrians had no problem with hurting people or causing them pain. They used more strength than they needed against people they didn’t like. For sure, Jonah shook with fear when he thought about walking among the people of Nineveh.

We may feel dislike for Jonah when we read his story. We may dislike him for letting his fear get in the way of his doing God’s work. But we can do the same thing. We can allow fear, and not God, to control us.