---
title:  'Excuse #2: False Beliefs'
date:   30/10/2023
---

When the storm came, Jonah blamed himself (Jonah 1:1–12). Jonah’s thinking shows us what many people believed about God or “gods” back then. These people believed that different gods controlled their countries and their lands. The sea was not controlled by the gods. The people believed the sea was the home of demons. Sailors thought that they needed to make offerings to the sea demons so that the demons would not be angry with them. The Hebrew religion did not teach this false view. But these false views may have caused Jonah to believe he made the sea demons angry. So, this false belief may be why Jonah blamed himself for the storm.

`Read Jonah 2:1–3, 7–10. What do these verses show us about how Jonah started to understand God’s leading and watch care?`

Jonah learned the hard way that God was in control. The wind and waves belonged to God. The fish, too. “The earth and everything on it belong to the Lord” (Psalm 24:1, ERV). Jonah gave his heart to the God of the earth and sea. So, God saved him.

We can misunderstand God and what He expects from us, too, the same as Jonah. Sometimes we think God wants us to remove ourselves from the evil on the earth around us. Yes, the Bible warns us to keep ourselves “clean from the sinful [evil] things” on this earth (James 1:27 NLV). At the same time, we should not hide ourselves away from people. We should do everything we can to bring God’s blessings and hope to people in need.

Also, we may believe that success depends on us. This belief is another false idea that may stop us from doing God’s work. We must remember that we are the same as Jonah: we can’t save anyone. Jonah couldn’t save Nineveh. Sometimes we behave as if we were a “savior.” But God doesn’t ask us to do His work. He asks us to work with Him. Saving people is work that belongs to God. We praise God for changing us, but only God can lead people to Himself. We plant “seeds” of Bible truth in people’s hearts. Only God can make the seeds grow. We often confuse our work with God’s. When we do, we may use that misunderstanding as an excuse not to share the Good News about Jesus with people. Yes, God used Jonah. But God, not Jonah, saved the city.