---
title:  'Excuse #3: The Work Is Too Hard'
date:   31/10/2023
---

Jonah’s experience in the fish’s belly (read Jonah 2) was a powerful show of God’s love and mercy. Jonah’s prayer shows us that he understood God’s message about His love. Sad to say, this miracle didn’t mean that some of Jonah’s old feelings had changed. Jonah went to Nineveh. But on his journey, he carried bad feelings about the Ninevites in his heart.

`What did the Ninevites do when they heard Jonah preach? Read Jonah 3 for the answer. What lessons does this chapter teach us about sharing our faith with other people?`

Jonah didn’t like the Ninevites much, but he gave them God’s message anyway. What happened next was amazing. The Ninevites confessed their sins and stopped sinning. When Jonah finally did what God asked him to do, God was honored among the Ninevite people.

God’s work is a success when His workers are willing to give up what they want so that they can work for Him. Maybe they may not want to give up anything, the same as Jonah felt. But they do it anyway. We must give up what we want and put God’s work first. Just as Jonah did, we may dislike the people that God asks us to help Him save. Our bad feelings may keep us from serving a person or a group who needs us.

It’s not easy to see the hate in your own heart. We must have hearts empty of all pride. God’s work takes time and energy. Helping other people and caring for them can make us tired and worn out. Our lives can be filled with stress. The last thing we may want to do is help someone solve their problems when we have so many ourselves.

We also need to change how we feel about our money. Our money is really God’s money. He blesses us so we may support His work. Maybe we need to provide care for people. Or buy them Bible books. Maybe we need to pay a babysitter or housekeeper so we can have more time to do God’s work. Doing God’s work costs money. We may need to stop thinking about ourselves to help God do His work. The good news is that just as God worked with Jonah, He will work with us.

`What is God asking you to give up so that people may be saved? Are you ready to trust Him to bless you when you give things up for Him?`