---
title:  'Excuse #4: Working With Stubborn People'
date:   01/11/2023
---

“He [Jonah] complained to the Lord and said, ‘Lord, I knew this would happen! I was in my own country, and you told me to come here. At that time I knew that you would forgive the people of this evil city, so I decided to run away to Tarshish. I knew that you are a kind [loving] God. I knew that you show mercy and don’t want to punish people. I knew that you are kind, and if these people stopped sinning, you would change your plans to destroy them’ ” (Jonah 4:2, ERV). Jonah prays a beautiful prayer, doesn’t he? Or is his prayer really beautiful? What’s going on?

`What is wrong with Jonah? Read Jonah 4 for the answer.`

Jonah hated the Ninevites so much. He felt that dying was better than losing people’s respect when they heard that God didn’t destroy Nineveh. Jonah didn’t want people to think he failed as a prophet. A prophet is a special messenger from God. Jonah wanted Nineveh to be the next Sodom and Gomorrah. He wanted God to destroy the people he hated so much. When God didn’t do that, Jonah felt very embarrassed and angry. He was so ashamed he wanted to die.

For the second time in Jonah’ story, God gives Jonah a learning experience. This experience changes how Jonah views life. Our views about life don’t change because we hear something new or different. We make or change our views about life when we have a powerful experience. How we explain these powerful experiences causes us to change how we think about life.

God gives Jonah a new experience to help him understand that his ideas are mixed up and wrong. God causes a plant to grow large enough in one day to give Jonah shade. The shade protects Jonah from the hot sun. Jonah is thankful for the plant. Jonah is not thankful to God for giving the plant to him. Jonah doesn’t think of the plant as a miracle and as a gift from God. Jonah thinks he earned the blessing with his good works and behavior. When the plant dies, Jonah gets mad. He starts to doubt his worth and wants to die.

God talks to Jonah in a loving way. God tries to help Jonah understand that he is being very silly to care more about a plant than the thousands of men, women, and children in Nineveh and all their animals.