---
title:  Here I Am. Send Me!
date:   02/11/2023
---

Jonah’s story is more than a little surprising. Jonah refused at times to cooperate with God. But God saved the Ninevites anyway. This story helps us understand our part in God’s work. We are only His helpers. Only God can change hearts. Jonah’s story also helps us remember that God wants only willing workers with no pride in their hearts. God’s workers will obey God and do everything He asks.

`Read Isaiah 6:1–8. What important idea do we read about in these verses?`

God is looking for willing volunteers. We must answer God with obedience. We must respect His leadership and listen to His voice. Then we must choose to obey whatever He tells us.

The story about Jonah also shows us God’s love for people who don’t know Him or His love. God had pity on Nineveh, and He has pity on the millions of people living in the crowded cities today. In these noisy cities, buildings stand where trees and flowers used to grow. The buildings and busy lifestyle make it hard for people to remember God. God said about Nineveh, “ ‘There are more than 120,000 people living there. Those people simply [for sure] do not know right from wrong!’ ” (Jonah 4:11, ICB). God needs messengers today who are willing to take His message of hope to the people living in the cities.

Isaiah heard Someone ask, “Who will go?” That “Someone” was God. (Isaiah 6:8). What will your answer be?

`Task #1: Make a list of ten people who are not members of your church. Pray daily for these people for the rest of the quarter. Also, pray for deeper, loving, and more trusting friendships with the people on your list who you don’t know very well. Pay attention to their needs, hurts, and pain. Then pray that God will meet their needs.`

`Task #2: Choose two cities: one near you and one somewhere faraway. Start praying for the people who live and work in each city. Ask God to send strong Adventist Bible workers to those cities to share Bible truth about the soon coming of Jesus.`