---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   03/11/2023
---

Jesus invites us to join Him in His work of saving people. Ellen G. White has a strong warning for people who don’t do their part in sharing Bible truth.

“Many people make excuses for not doing God’s work. They are responsible for the work, even if they choose not to do it. God keeps a record in heaven. When His people refuse to help the ones that Jesus died to save, then God makes a record of their behavior in heaven. He writes in His books that they are not loyal servants. What if a pastor shuts himself away from the people who need His help? Is this pastor working as Jesus worked? Is he a strength and a blessing to other people? The ones who refuse to care for other people become selfish. What will help them change? They need to spend time with their brothers and sisters so that they can understand their hearts and minds. Then they will know how to take care of God’s people. They will give to God’s people the things that they need most at the time they most need them. The ones who don’t do this work show that they need to change. When they do, they will understand that they have not done their share of God’s work.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, August 30, 1892.

These words are very strong. At the same time, we must remember that God doesn’t leave us without hope, as Jonah’s story teaches us. “God gave Jonah important work. The workload was heavy for Jonah to carry. The God who asked Jonah to go was powerful enough to take care of Jonah and give him success. If Jonah had obeyed God without question, Jonah would have avoided many painful experiences. God would have blessed Jonah in many ways, too. But the Lord didn’t leave Jonah when he was filled with sadness. God used hard times and strange miracles to give Jonah hope. Then Jonah trusted again in God and in His power to save.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 266, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What is your “Nineveh”? What excuses have you made for not doing the work God has given you to do?`

`As a church, we have been given many precious Bible truths. What is stopping you back from sharing these truths with other people?`

`What fears do you have about sharing Bible truth? With God’s help, how can you let go of these fears?`