---
title:  An Overwhelmed Mind
date:  25/01/2025
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: 2
Corinthians 10:3–5**

**An Overwhelmed Mind**

At times, I lie awake at night and I just can’t sleep. My mind races with thoughts that just won’t slow down. I think about the sermon I’ll be preaching, the bills that need to be paid, the disagreement I had with the neighbor down the street, what I’ll have for breakfast, and on and on and… STOP! What is happening to me? Why can’t I stop these rushing thoughts? I need to sleep! At other times, my mind becomes overwhelmed when I’m doing an ordinary task like driving, or when someone says something that sparks a memory from the past, and I find myself unable to stop thinking about those things, either.

What controls the mind controls us, and what controls us determines how we behave and live our lives. Thoughts lead to actions, actions lead to habits, and habits lead to character. Like the wise man Solomon once said, “For as he thinks in his heart, so is he” (Prov. 23:7). The devil works hard to derail our thinking so he can derail our lives. Our thinking can become derailed through traumatic life events or believing lies that make us feel worthless. Jesus came to show us our value and lead us to truth that will set us free (John 8:32). If we believe and follow the truth regardless of how we feel, we can find freedom.

This week, we will look at Satan’s attack on the human mind and God’s plan to set us free. There’s no thought so powerful that God cannot help us bring it under control. In Christ, unwelcome thoughts can be conquered and put away.

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

#### inScribe

Write out 2 Corinthians 10:3–5 in your own words. Take time to reflect on the words, taking notes on what stands out to you, and outlining the passage.

` `