---
title:  Identifying and Disarming
date:  26/01/2025
---

#### inGest

When Paul wrote his second letter to the church in Corinth, he was acutely aware of Satan’s attempts to invade their minds and hijack their thinking (2 Cor. 2:11; 11:3). Paul was concerned that the enemy would succeed in filling their minds with “contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, backbitings, whisperings, conceits, tumults” (12:20). Warped thinking and antagonistic attitudes had already made some Corinthians suspicious of Paul and his ministry (11:5; 13:3, 6). Despite these challenges, Paul remained confident in God’s ability to overthrow even the strongest mental strongholds. Christians cannot just allow their thoughts to run in any direction. Jesus wants to set us free from thoughts that hold us in bondage. This does not mean that we will reach a time when our battle is over. There will always be a battle in the mind as long as there is a conflict between good and evil, but Jesus can help us meet every new challenge.

The enemy does everything he can to plant damaging thoughts and get our minds stuck in negative patterns. None of us have the strength within us to win this battle. Because our minds have been broken through sin, we need more than self-discipline to bring every thought into captivity. We need power from above to dismantle and conquer the strongholds of the enemy. As we allow Christ to retake, restore, and rebuild our minds, we discover who God created us to be.

When my mind wanders and begins to ruminate on things that aren’t especially helpful in either my life or walk with Jesus, I stop and ask myself: “Are these thoughts of God or of Satan?” Then I identify the specific thoughts that are not in harmony with the mind of Christ and are contrary to His Word. Once I begin to clarify and process my thought patterns, at times writing them out, slowing those thoughts down becomes easier. I can turn to Christ and His Word for solutions. Guided by Scripture, I can replace lies with truth, negative thoughts with positive ones, and complaining with thankfulness (Phil. 4:8). This is not a time to become discouraged or obsessed with our failures, but to trust in God’s forgiveness and be patient with ourselves when our growth is not instantaneous. Like a plant, it’s not always easy to measure daily progress but over time growth happens. Today, I encourage you to follow these steps in overcoming the thoughts that seem to disrupt and ruin your day. You might even be able to get some sleep tonight!

Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verse from 2 Corinthians 10:3–5. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What mental strongholds in your mind do you want to conquer?`

`What victories has God given you in the past that give you hope for the future?`

` `