---
title:  The Authentic You
date:  27/01/2025
---

#### inTerpret

There is a strong push these days to discover the “real you.” Popular culture is all about looking deep inside yourself and choosing to follow your heart. It’s easy to feel a sense of independence and self-expression by thinking and doing whatever we feel like. However, something will always be missing when we’re trying to find identities separate from our Creator. Seeking authenticity outside of Christ turns our minds into open fields where the enemy can wreak havoc. Instead of finding the freedom we desire, it can lead to other kinds of bondage. Sometimes we express ourselves through popular fashion, style, or behavior and feel like we’re discovering our true selves when in actuality we’re simply mimicking a trend. Even this can become a stronghold.

The Bible presents an authentic you that’s completely opposite of what the world offers. Christ is the only One who can clear out the strongholds in your mind and free you to be who God created you to be. The authentic you is “Christ in you, the hope of glory” (Col. 1:27). The paradox of the indwelling Christ is that the more we surrender to Him, the freer we become. In His power, we can pull down every stronghold in our lives and find true freedom.

Satan’s strongholds are easy now but hard later. They promise freedom but lead to captivity. God’s plan is hard now but easy later. Willing captivity under Christ gives true freedom. The stronghold of poor health habits is a great example. As young adults, it’s easy to indulge in poor health practices now and suffer the results when we get older. It’s difficult to exercise and live healthily now, but it makes old age much easier. It’s very hard for people who are stuck in addictions to quit, but when they do, life slowly gets better. It’s easy to continue the addiction, but life slowly gets harder and harder. The easiest choice to make is to leave the strongholds alone, but when we think long-term, we see that making the difficult choice to remove the stronghold now will ultimately give us better freedom.

As Christ transforms us by His Spirit (2 Cor. 3:18), we become like Him. Being transformed in His image makes you into the authentic you: a child of God. As you look to Him, you can cultivate healthy thought and life patterns. Christ in us is Christ living His life through us. Christ in us leads us to become a replica of Him. Today, accept this by faith and become your authentic self, living with freedom and victory in Christ. Transformation is possible; believe it and live it out in His strength.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How does surrendering to Christ set us free?`

` `