---
title:  The Spirit’s Role
date:  29/01/2025
---

#### inVite

Having the mind of Christ is a supernatural experience that can happen only through the Holy Spirit’s power. This renewing of the mind happens as we receive “the new man which was created according to God” (Eph. 4:24; cf. v. 24 NIV). The new man is the restoration of God’s image in us. We can become a new man by accepting Christ’s life, death, and resurrection every day. Having Him means we’re a new creation in Christ with a new mind, ready to think and act like Jesus (2 Cor. 5:17). Putting on the “new man” also requires that we push out the “old man” (Eph. 4:22, 24). This means we must rebuke or replace any thoughts that are contrary to what God and His Word say. The truth sets us free, and that is where we need to stay. Lies keep us in bondage, so let’s continue to refute any lie of the enemy with the truth of God.

The mind can stay renewed as long as we remain in communion with God through constant prayer. We must open ourselves to the daily baptism of the Holy Spirit. Each morning, we can wake up and pray for a fresh outpouring of the Holy Spirit, inviting Him to remain in our minds throughout the day. The Bible tells us to “rejoice always, pray without ceasing (1 Thess. 5:16, 17). Each day should begin with time for focused prayer to set the tone for the whole day, and we must then remain in an attitude of prayer. The various decisions and challenges we face throughout the day remind us to whisper a prayer to God for guidance with whatever we’re dealing with, and the unexpected blessings, however small, give us opportunity to thank and praise Him. Talking to God as we would a friend is key to having the mind of Christ and implementing His plan for overthrowing mental strongholds.

Together with prayer, memorizing the promises in Scripture can repel the enemy’s advances in difficult moments. God’s Word cleanses our minds and strengthens our resolve to do what’s true and right (Ps. 119:9–16; John 17:17; Eph. 5:26). For those who like to sing, Scripture songs can be a powerful tool as well! We must seek to act on what’s right regardless of how we feel. Feelings come and go, which is why we must avoid living by our feelings and instead act on what we know to be unchanging truth. With the Holy Spirit’s help, we can dismantle “strongholds, casting down arguments and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ” (2 Cor. 10:5).

Journal:

`Meditate on 2 Corinthians 10:3–5 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What thought patterns do you struggle with the most? Take a moment to ask God to help you replace them with less destructive ones.`

`How can you give God more room to work in your life?`

` `