---
title:  The Shining Sun
date:  23/07/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Deuteronomy 5:12–15**

**The Shining Sun**

In theological terms, salvation can be understood in three phases: justification, sanctification, and glorification. When a sinner repents of their sins and God forgives them, they stand covered by the blood of Jesus and receive no condemnation (Rom. 5:6–11). This standing before God as if you had never sinned is termed “justification.”

The thief on the cross repented and received forgiveness for his sins. We do not know how much longer he lived after his conversion, but it certainly was not long. Barring a deathbed conversion, though, most Christians must continue to live their lives on this earth after they have had a life-transforming encounter with Christ that leads them to repent. What then?

Paul asks and answers this question in Romans 6. “What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Certainly not! How shall we who died to sin live any longer in it?” (Rom. 6:1, 2). After that conversion experience comes living a new life in accordance with God’s will. Every day the converted individual must choose behaviors that they will not need to later repent of. As they make these decisions day by day, empowered by the grace of God, they become a different person. This daily walk is termed sanctification.

A saint who is undergoing this sanctification process does not know of every sin in their life. “The path of the just is like the shining sun, that shines ever brighter unto the perfect day” (Prov. 4:18). They will certainly unknowingly transgress God’s law, and they need His justifying grace to cover them. They also may knowingly transgress and need to repent even as they continue walking with God in the process of sanctification. So justification and sanctification work in tandem in our salvation experience.

One day Christ will return to destroy sin and its effects. Then these bodies that are inclined to sinfulness will be glorified, thus completing our salvation. In this and the next lesson we will consider the first two facets of the salvation experience and the Sabbath.

#### inScribe

Write out Deuteronomy 5:12–15 from the translation of your choice. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `