---
title:  Creation and Redemption
date:  24/07/2022
---

#### inGest

God prefaces the Ten Commandments with a statement about salvation: “I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage” (Exod. 20:2; Deut. 5:6). It is because He has redeemed the Israelites from bondage that God now expects a certain type of behavior. He does not require perfect conformity to the Law as a prerequisite to Israel’s deliverance. The deliverance comes first.

Indeed, the Israelites participated in their deliverance from Egypt. They had to sprinkle the blood on their doorposts and partake of the Passover meal (Exod. 12:12, 13). And when it was time to leave, they had to heed the command to go (Exod. 12:50, 51). Their actions, however, carried no merit in themselves. Eating lamb “roasted in fire, with unleavened bread and with bitter herbs” (Exod. 12:8), “with a belt on your waist, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand” (Exod. 12:11), and sprinkling “blood on the lintel and on the two doorposts” (Exod. 12:23) on any other day would not have resulted in their freedom. It is God who delivered them, and by their actions they cooperated with God’s meritorious work.

The theme of redemption is repeated in the articulation of the fourth commandment in Deuteronomy: “And remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out from there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm; therefore the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day” (Deut. 5:15). Whereas the Israelites were slaves in Egypt, God brought them out and gave them rest from their slave labor. In remembrance of the rest that they received through their deliverance from Egypt, the Israelites were to keep the Sabbath rest each week.

There is no conflict between the rationale for Sabbath observance given in Exodus and that given in Deuteronomy. Nothing short of creation power would suffice to recreate (Eph. 4:24) a life once “dead in trespasses and sins” (Eph. 2:1). It is the same power active at creation as at redemption, and Sabbath observance binds these two events in our consciousness. Had He not created us, Christ could not redeem us. Thus, a day memorializing His work of creation buttresses our confidence in His redemption.

In the beginning, God created everything else before He created humanity. By the time Adam and Eve entered the scene, God had completed His work. In this way, humanity could never claim any merit for creation even though God assigned Adam and Eve the task to “tend and keep it” (Gen. 2:15). Their work of keeping the Garden of Eden carried no merit in the work of creating Eden in the first place. As we keep the Sabbath each week, we are reminded that inasmuch as our keeping the Sabbath does not make it holy, so cooperating with God in His work of salvation in our lives bears no merit.

` `