---
title:  The Paradox
date:  25/07/2022
---

#### inTerpret

There is a tendency to overemphasize one aspect of Philippians 2:12, 13 over the other. Either we focus on working out our “own salvation with fear and trembling” or we zero in on the fact that “it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure” (Phil. 2:12, 13, KJV). It is hard for us to conceive of how both statements could be true at the same time.

In the first instance, the Bible is clear in Ephesians 2:8: salvation is God’s free gift! And in case you missed it, Paul doubles down in verse 9: “Not of works, lest any man should boast.” Clearly, then, Paul is in agreement with Philippians 2:13. Salvation is God’s work in us. Yet it is this same Paul who penned verse 12 instructing God’s followers to “work out” their salvation.

Many Christians view biblical imperatives as a vestige of Old Testament religion that was done away with when Christ came. This view is often associated with a misunderstanding of the old and new covenants in Scripture. (For a thorough study of the old and new covenants, look up the inVerse study guide on Decoding the Covenants.) Yet the New Testament is replete with directives. In fact, much of Paul’s writing alternates between theology and exhortation—and his exhortations are loaded with verbs in the imperative mood. There is, apparently, a work we must undertake for our own salvation. And while this work cannot save us, we also cannot be saved without engaging in it.

With no effort on our part, the Sabbath is holy. It is holy because God declared it thus. Yet, we cannot experience the blessings God has infused in the Sabbath experience unless we enter into that Sabbath rest. When we keep the Sabbath holy, we do not infuse it with holiness—the holiness is already there. But we cannot partake of its holiness unless we do something, that is, unless we choose to enter into its rest (more on this in lesson 7).

God has made salvation available to us, but we will not benefit from said salvation unless we choose to accept it. This choice is the work we must do for our salvation. We must daily choose to let God work in our lives. It takes concerted effort to keep our eyes focused on Jesus. While God will supply the strength needed to maintain a focus on Christ, this is a task we must engage. And it could not be otherwise because God will never force salvation on anyone. We must choose to obey, through His strength. The choice bears no salvific merit, yet without it we cannot be saved.

` `