---
title:  Peaceful Rest
date:  27/07/2022
---

#### inVite

When Jesus created the Sabbath as a day of rest at the close of the creation week (Gen. 2:1–3), it was so that He would invite us into its rest (Mark 2:27). As was discussed in lesson 4, even in a sinless world, that rest signified the recognition of dependence upon God. When sin entered the world, though, the rest came to mean even more.

Because they sinned, the peace that Adam and Eve once experienced was replaced by fear (Gen. 3:10). A mind at rest has peace, but humanity had abandoned their peace. Now fear, anxiety, and stress dominated their purview. Jesus promises a peace unlike that which the world gives: “Peace I leave with you, My peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid” (John 14:27). The peace that Jesus gives eradicates fear, thus bringing in its train freedom to live abundantly (cf. John 10:10).

Not only was their internal life reordered, but the relationship between Adam and Eve was sullied. In the place of loving companionship (Gen. 2:22–25) was now blame and distrust (Gen. 3:11–13). As a foreshadowing of Christ’s ministry, John the Baptist was prophesied “to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children” (Luke 1:17). Christ enshrined in the heart brings healing to broken relationships (Eph. 2:14–18).

Of prime importance is the peace that Christ brings between humanity and God (2 Cor. 5:18, 19). This peace is accomplished through His salvation: “Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ” (Rom. 5:1). The adversarial relationship (Rom. 5:10) is replaced by a filial one (John 1:12).

Comprehensively speaking, Christ offers humanity rest from sin’s labor. Romans 6 tells us that “the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord” (Rom. 6:23). You receive wages when you have worked. The text tells us that sin’s wages is death. So, we may deduce that sin is work. It is back-breaking work that is ultimately unsatisfying (Isa. 55:2). Jesus invites us to enter into the rest of His salvation from sin.

“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light” (Matt. 11:28–30).

`In what areas of your life do you need Jesus to give you rest?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`