---
title:  The Father, the Son, and the Spirit
date:   07/12/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
John 3:16, 17; Genesis 3:7–9; John 7:16; John 1:10–13; John 17:1–26.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘The Helper is the Holy Spirit. The Father will send Him in My place [as my Substitute]. He [the Holy Spirit] will teach you everything and help you remember everything I have told you’ ” (John 14:26, NLV).

The Book of John shows us many important ideas. John talks about the miracles that Jesus does to show us that Jesus is the promised Savior. John also shares what other people say about Jesus to show us who Jesus is. Jesus uses the seven “I AM” announcements to show us that He is God.

Another important idea in the Book of John is the Godhead. The Godhead is the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. John talks about all three members of the Godhead in John 1 (John 1:1–4, 14, 18, 32–34). For hundreds of years, people have tried to understand the Godhead. But because we can’t fully understand it, many people reject this Bible truth. This thinking is wrong. We shouldn’t reject something because we can’t fully understand it.

John says that if you want to understand God, you must look at Jesus and what the Bible teaches us about God. Then you will better understand relationships between the three members of the Godhead, between members of the Godhead and humans, and among ourselves. This week’s lesson looks at what the Book of John teaches us about the Godhead in Jesus’ Goodbye Sermon (John 13–17).