---
title:  Jesus And The Father
date:   09/12/2024
---

As we saw already, the Godhead is the Three-in-One God: the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The Godhead made us for a special reason. God made us for a personal relationship with Him (Genesis 1:26, 27). But sin broke that relationship. We can see in the Garden of Eden story exactly how sin broke our relationship with God.

`Read the story in Genesis 3:7–9. How does this story show the problem that sin caused? What does it mean that God searched for Adam and Eve, and that they did not search for Him?`

The Godhead offered to heal all humans from sin. God offered this gift to every person. But not everyone would accept God’s offer.

To heal the relationship between God and humans, one Member of the Godhead became human. So, Jesus, God’s Word, was born in a human body. Jesus lived among us and showed us God’s glory (John 1:14–18). Jesus showed us God’s love and His mercy. Jesus came to announce God’s glory so that our broken relationship with God can be healed and made new. Everyone who accepts with faith all that Jesus offers can have a new relationship with God the Father.

`Read these verses: John 1:1, 2; John 5:16–18; John 6:69; John 10:10, 30; John 20:28.`

“Jesus has life in Himself that does not come from anyone else. Jesus didn’t borrow or get life from another person.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 530, ­adapted. Jesus, the Son, “gave up everything” that belonged to Him in heaven and became a Man (Philippians 2:7, ERV). “Jesus is God. This Bible truth gives Christians hope that Jesus can give them everlasting life.”—The Desire of Ages, page 530, adapted.

Humans didn’t know God (John 17:25). So, He sent His only Son (John 9:4; John 16:5) to help people know who He, the Father, is.

`Someone who didn’t believe in God wrote: “We humans have no hope that help will come from another place to save us from ourselves.” What does the Bible teach that shows us that this man is very wrong?`