---
title:  Knowing The Son Is The Same As Knowing The Father
date:   10/12/2024
---

All through the Book of John, John tells us how Jesus, the Son, does things that show us the Father. Jesus shows us God’s relationship with the human family. John 1:18 tells us that Jesus shows us who the Father is. The word “shows” comes from the word “exēgeomai” in the Greek language. “Exēgeomai” means “to explain.” Again and again, Jesus shows or explains who God is. The word “Father” is “patēr” in the Greek language. “Father” is written 136 times in the Book of John, and 18 times in John’s three letters. That adds up to more than 1/3 of the times it is used in the New Testament! Jesus’ Goodbye Sermon is a top chapter in the Bible where Jesus shows us the Father the most.

When Jesus lived on this earth, He was an example or exact copy of the Father. Jesus came to this earth to live out, in a human body, the Father’s plan. Jesus said that He wished to please His Father in everything and not Himself (John 5:30). This announcement shows us that Jesus gave His whole life to God.

Jesus also said that God sent Him to finish His work. God’s work was saving sinners. The Father saw and accepted the work that Jesus did (John 5:36–38).

Jesus announced that the Father sent Him to be the only one who can help humans come to God (John 6:40, 44). The Father wants people to accept everlasting life. This life comes from Jesus, who promises to wake us up from the dead at the Second Coming.

`What do the following verses teach us about Jesus and the Father’s relationship? John 7:16; John 8:38; John 14:10, 23; John 15:1, 9, 10; John 16:27, 28; John 17:3.`

Jesus says some surprising things about His relationship with the Father. Jesus announces that all His teachings are the Father’s teachings. Everything that He says comes from the Father. Jesus also says that if we believe in Him, that is the same as believing in the Father. All of Jesus’ words and miracles come from the Father. Jesus and the Father are joined together in their love for humans. Together, they work to save sinners. All of these things that Jesus says show that He and His father are very close in their hearts and minds.