---
title:  The Holy Spirit
date:   11/12/2024
---

The Holy Spirit doesn’t appear as much in the Book of John as the Father and the Son do. But the Holy Spirit’s help is very important to the success of Jesus’ work.

`Read John 1:10–13. What do these verses teach us about how important the Holy Spirit is in God’s work of changing our hearts and saving us?`

In John 1, we can see that the Holy Spirit’s work is very important in God’s plan to save sinners. John tells us that everyone who believed in Jesus became God’s children. “They became God’s children, but not in the way babies are usually [almost always] born. It [becoming God’s children] was not because of any human desire [wish] or plan. They [God’s children] were born from God himself” (John 1:13, ERV). This change comes from the work of the Holy Spirit.

`What do John 3:5–8; John 6:63; John 14:26; John 15:26; and John 16:7–11 teach us about the Holy Spirit’s work?`

“Jesus explained to His followers about the Holy Spirit’s work. Jesus wanted to fill the hearts of His followers with the same joy and hope that filled His own heart. Jesus was happy because of the help He gave to His church. The Holy Spirit was the most important gift that Jesus could ask His Father to give to His people. The Spirit gave God’s people new life. Without this gift, Jesus’ death on the cross wouldn’t save anyone. The power of evil grew worse and worse. People chose to serve evil and Satan. They became his slaves. People could win the fight against sin with the help of the Holy Spirit. God poured His Spirit fully on His church.”­—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 671, adapted.

We get a blessing when we accept the Holy Spirit. The Spirit tells us that God is true (John 3:33). The Spirit shows us our sins. The Spirit tells us how to be holy and tells us when we are wrong (John 16:8–11). If we want to know what is right, true, and good, we must give our lives to God and obey His Word. Then the Spirit will help us. He will convince us we must change our lives. He will give us the power to stop sinning.