---
title:  Jesus’ Prayer
date:   12/12/2024
---

John 17 is often named Jesus’ high-priestly prayer. A high priest was the top spiritual leader in Jesus’ day. Jesus’ prayer comes at the end of His Goodbye Sermon. Jesus came to this earth to save humans and to change their lives. Jesus wants to help humans have a relationship with God again. Jesus did the miracles that God told Him to do. With words and actions, Jesus showed God to the people.

Soon Jesus would leave this earth. He wanted His fol­lowers to know how much He loved them. Jesus also wanted them to understand the close relationship between Himself, the Father, and the Holy Spirit. Jesus wanted to help people to enjoy the same personal relationship with God the Father and the Holy Spirit that He had.

`Read John 17:1–26. What words does Jesus say that show how much He wants to have a close, loving relationship with His Father and with His followers?`

Many people think that John 17 says that the only things that are important are love and peace. For sure, God’s plan includes healing our relationship with Him and with all people. But if we read John 17 more carefully, we see a more powerful connection between love and truth.

Jesus prayed, “ ‘And this [teaching] is eternal [everlasting] life: that people can know you, the only true [real] God, and that they can know Jesus Christ, the one you sent’ ” (John 17:3, ERV). Jesus also added, “ ‘You gave me some men from the world [the people on this earth]. I have shown them what you are like [who you are]. . . . I gave these men the teachings that you gave me. They accepted those teachings. They know that I truly [really] came from you’ ” (John 17:6, 8, ICB). Finally, Jesus prayed, “ ‘Use the truth [Bible teachings] to make them holy. Your word [the Bible] is truth’ ” (John 17:17, NIrV).

Jesus came to show us the Father. Many people believed false ideas about God. In the Book of John, Jesus showed us God’s teachings and actions. If Bible truth isn’t important, why did Jesus spend so much time preaching it and obeying God?

Jesus’ life was often hard. In the end, the Jewish leaders rejected Him. Judas, Jesus’ follower, sold Him for money. The people He came to save nailed Him to a cross.