---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   13/12/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘Let Not Your Heart Be Troubled,’ ” pages 662–680, in The Desire of Ages; “Additional Note on [John] Chapter 1,” pages 911–919, in The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 5.

Jesus’ enemies judged Him with their own human rules and ideas. That’s why Jesus told them, “You judge me the way people judge other people” (John 8:15, ERV). These men are not under the control of the Holy Spirit. They judge Jesus without the Spirit’s help (read John 3:3–7). The leaders saw Jesus as a man. They didn’t believe He was God in a man’s body or God’s words living in a human body (John 1:14).

“The Holy Spirit is our Helper. He is also named ‘the Spirit of Truth.’ The Holy Spirit’s work includes showing us Bible truth and helping us to live it. First, the Holy Spirit lives in the heart as the Spirit of truth. When He lives in our hearts, we feel hope and peace. That’s because Bible truth helps us feel peace and hope. We can’t feel real peace or hope when we believe lies. When we accept false ideas and beliefs, Satan gets control over our minds. Satan tricks us into accepting false ideas. When we do, our thoughts, feelings, and behavior become evil. The Holy Spirit talks to our minds through the Bible. The Holy Spirit shows Bible truth to our hearts. The Holy Spirit also shows us false beliefs and ideas and helps us to reject these things. The Holy Spirit speaks to our hearts as we read the Bible. The Spirit helps us to give our lives fully to Jesus. In this way, Jesus works through the Holy Spirit to bring His people fully under His control.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 671, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What does it mean to really know God (John 17:3) and not just information about Him? If someone asked you, “Do you know God?” what would you say? How does Jesus fit in with your answer?`

`What does Jesus mean when He prays to the Father and says, “ ‘Your teaching is truth’ ” (John 17:17, ERV)?`

`Read more of Jesus’ prayer in John 17:15. How do our choices change God’s answers to our prayers?`