---
title:  A Depressed Prophet
date:  04/01/2025
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: 1 Kings 19**

**A Depressed Prophet**

Even the greatest heroes in the Bible suffered through dark periods of mental depression. The Bible is transparent about the struggles of its own heroes; it doesn’t gloss over uncomfortable details, including their mental health struggles. The prophet Elijah caught the attention of the entire nation of Israel when he gained a distinct victory over the prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel. His story ranks among the most important in Israel’s history, putting his name right alongside Moses’ (Matt. 17:4, 5). Elijah’s story would certainly be a little cleaner if Elijah’s greatest victory (1 Kings 18) was not immediately followed by his worst defeat when he was suddenly overcome by a crippling spirit of fear and melancholy (1 Kings 19). In one night, Elijah slid from the highest mountaintop experience of his life down to his lowest valley of depression—so low that he wished his life would end (v. 4). The Bible’s stories are messy, but it’s because of these recorded human failures that the Bible is so relatable to each one of us today.

When we hit our lowest point, it’s easy to feel like God can never use us and we have nothing good to offer anyone. It’s natural to feel like all the promises of the Bible are for somebody else. However, stories like Elijah’s tell us we are not the first to fight these battles of the mind. Even the most faithful Christians and the most successful people have dealt with depression and thoughts of suicide. God was compassionate and understanding with Elijah in his weakest moments. Elijah’s story should give us all hope that God will help us climb out of our worst days too.

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

#### inScribe

Write out 1 Kings 19 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 4–6. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `