---
title:  The Mind-Body Connection
date:  05/01/2025
---

#### inGest

In a sense, Elijah had gone up against the whole world; King Ahab had sent deputies to every nation searching for him (1 Kings 18:10). Three years of drought, famine, and death had finally brought the nation to its knees on the top of Mount Carmel. In an epic contest over whose God was the true God, Elijah’s prayers were answered in front of the entire nation. If anyone had reason to be confident in God’s protection, it was Elijah. God had miraculously fed him and sheltered him for the past three years (1 Kings 17:4–6, 16). Elijah’s ministry was crowned with success and honor when he stood fearlessly in the face of King Ahab and his army. It could appear that Elijah was safer now than he had been in a long time, but appearances are deceiving. Often, our moments of greatest victory become our moments of greatest vulnerability. Both success and failure can lead to depression. Like Elijah, many of us crash when coming off a mountaintop experience like he had on Carmel. Some of our worst spiritual lows come right after a spiritual high.

Startled by a threatening message in the middle of the night, Elijah panicked (1 Kings 19:3). Fearing the worst, he jumped up and fled for his life. Before long, feelings of fear gave way to feelings of total despair. In his hopeless state, Elijah wished he would die (v. 4).

As Elijah sank into discouragement, God commissioned an angel to help calm his frazzled nerves and restore him to his right mind. The angel gave special attention to Elijah’s most basic needs: food, water, sleep, exercise, fresh air, and sunshine. God didn’t even try to reason with Elijah while he was hungry and exhausted (1 Kings 19:5–8). Healing of the mind begins with healing of the body. That’s why Satan often attacks our mind by attacking our body.

Elijah’s recovery was much slower than his fall. When he finally calmed down after forty days on the run, God sat him down and said it was time to talk (v. 9). God certainly could’ve used Elijah’s leadership in Jezreel about thirty-nine days earlier, but God is very patient with us during our vulnerable moments. He was tender and willing for His work to wait while Elijah took some time to recover. That said, however, God wasn’t going to leave Elijah to be a hermit in a cave for the rest of his life, either. God gently lifted Elijah up to place him back in the center of the action once again (vv. 15, 16). That’s what God wants to do with every emotionally broken person—He wants to renew our minds and restore us to His service.

#### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verses from 1 Kings 19. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What conditions make us most vulnerable to a hard fall?`

`How much time do you need to bounce back after you’ve fallen?`