---
title:  Out of Balance
date:  06/01/2025
---

#### inTerpret

God patiently helped Elijah heal from his mindset of despair. God wants to help us today as well, but many of us are stuck in a loop of endless discouragement. Whereas Elijah was able to begin resetting his mindset through healthy food and good rest, many of us are stuck in patterns of sleep deprivation, poor eating habits, and a lack of exercise. We scroll through social media or binge-watch videos at night when we should be sleeping. During the day, we’re in too much of a hurry to eat healthily and drink enough water. We are too addicted and stressed out to put much priority on getting regular exercise, sunshine, and fresh air. The more our physical health weakens, the more mentally and emotionally vulnerable we become.

The technological advancements of our age have made the struggle for a healthy lifestyle even more challenging. Today, companies deliberately try to manipulate users’ emotions and spending habits. Smartphones are loaded with apps designed to stimulate desires and monetize addictive behaviors. Incessant notifications from our phones can push our brains to be in a near-constant state of stress. Many people struggle with the fear of missing out (FOMO), which, in part, is a phenomenon seen in social media users who begin to believe that others are living better, more satisfying lives. These people compulsively check social media to see what others are doing and then feel poorly about themselves when their lives seem lacking in comparison.

Many of us would benefit from taking control of our media consumption and bringing our lives back into balance. Improvement begins with tracking how much time you spend on technology and setting goals to reduce your time to a healthier level. For example, you can commit to being off all technology between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m. Another good idea is to have a technology-free day. You can also commit to setting it aside during mealtimes. Make a plan with a family member or accountability partner. Fill some of this time with something you enjoy, such as being in nature, engaging in something creative (like reading or writing, crafting, or making music), or something that gets your blood pumping—walking, biking, or swimming are some good examples.

We should each make a serious effort to escape the constant stimulation of our minds so that we can listen to God’s voice again. When Elijah was finally in a better position to listen, God spoke to Him in a quiet little voice (1 Kings 19:12). It’s easy to miss a soft voice amid constant noise. We may not hear God’s voice when we need it most unless we tune out the noise of this world and listen carefully.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What’s one thing you can do today to disconnect from technology and social media and connect more with God and friends?`

` `