---
title:  Creating the Right Conditions
date:  08/01/2025
---

#### inVite

God wants us to enjoy excellent mental health and experience true happiness. When Christ came to earth, He paid special attention to the hungry, tired people who needed food and rest (Matt. 14:20; Luke 8:55; Mark 6:31). Jesus cares about providing optimal conditions for the health of mind and body.

In his book, The Hacking of the American Mind, Dr. Robert Lustig presents four healthy habits––summarized with four Cs––that can help improve social, emotional, and mental health:

Connect with people in person and find meaningful ways to spend time with one another that contribute to each other’s well-being. Keeping in touch, talking, listening, problem solving, playing, and enjoying life together brings the human brain the social stimulation it needs. Put devices away and use them only as necessary. Above all, protect time to connect with God (Gen. 3:8; Exod. 25:8).

Contribute to others’ well-being is an important key to good mental health. The Bible tells us that real, healthy, life-giving Christianity involves taking time to consider others’ needs and seeking to give of our time, talents, and resources to relieve human suffering (Matt. 25:34–40).

Cope with life’s difficulties by taking time to get rest and enjoy life’s simple delights. Exercising, engaging in meaningful hobbies, enjoying the outdoors, and getting enough sleep balance the brain’s hormones. Cortisol, melatonin, serotonin, and dopamine are four major hormones that can be thrown out of balance when we don’t take the time to rest and relax. An imbalance in these hormones can lead to a lack of sleep, increased stress levels, a foggy brain, and a compromised immune system. We desperately need to slow down, truly worship our Creator, enjoy life, and rest awhile (Exod. 20:8–11; Mark 6:31).

Cook with a group of people, talking and enjoying one another’s company. Connecting in this way adds vibrancy to life. Additionally, use the best foods available to promote optimal mental and physical health (Gen. 1:29; 1 Cor. 10:31). A whole-foods, plant-based diet is ideal for providing the necessary vitamins, minerals, and general nutrition. The longest-living cultures in the world thrive on a diet of fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, and grains.

Recognizing the close connection God created between the mind and body empowers us to create habits that will give our minds the best chance to flourish. Many of us are like the exhausted, discouraged prophet Elijah in need of the basics: good rest and quality nutrition. We can commit to following God’s plan for healthy living, no matter how contrary it is to our surrounding culture (Dan. 1:8). As we present our bodies as a living sacrifice by making healthy lifestyle choices, God can reshape our minds to reflect His image (Rom. 12:1).

#### Journal

`Meditate on 1 Kings 19 again. Identify some principles in this chapter that Jesus followed in His ministry.`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again in your study this week? How is He speaking to you?`

`What’s a healthy habit you feel convicted to improve on? What’s one step you can take today to begin improving in that area?`

`Prayer Response:`