---
title:  The Jerusalem Council
date:  14/11/2018
---

`Read Acts 15:1, 2 and Galatians 2:11-14. What are the two issues that caused serious conflict in the early church?`

The threat to church unity faced by early Christians was real and difficult. Some Jewish Christians thought that salvation was possible only for those who belonged to the covenant people of God, and this implied that circumcision was a requirement. And as part of a faithful lifestyle, these Jewish believers also believed that they were to avoid any contacts with Gentiles that could possibly thwart their own salvation.

The Jews had very strict traditions in regard to their association with Gentiles. These traditions quickly became a stumbling block for the new Christian community when the apostles began to reach out to Gentiles who wished to become followers of Jesus. Because the Messiah is the Savior of God’s covenant people, as predicted in the Old Testament, weren’t Gentiles supposed to become Jews first and then follow the same covenant rules if they wanted to be saved?

`Read Acts 15:3-22. What were some issues presented during the Jerusalem Council?`

The issue here was rooted in conflicts over deeply held interpretations of the Old Testament stories regarding circumcision and relationship with Gentiles. As apostles, elders, and delegates from Antioch sat together, it seems the discussion went on for a long time without any resolution.

But then Peter, Barnabas, and Paul made speeches. Peter’s speech alluded to the visionary revelation that God gave him and to the gift of the Holy Spirit, which opened the way for the mission to the Gentiles. Then Paul and Barnabas shared their stories of what God had done through them for the Gentiles. As a result, many eyes were opened to new truth. Said Peter: “ ‘We believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ we shall be saved in the same manner as they,’ ” meaning the Gentiles (Acts 15:11, NKJV). Centuries of long-held tradition were unraveling in light of the gospel.

`Was there ever a time you changed your mind about how you understood a deeply held belief? What did you learn from the experience that could perhaps help you when you might again have to question your understanding of a belief?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Certain Jews from Judea raised a general consternation among the believing Gentiles by agitating the question of circumcision. They asserted, with great assurance, that none could be saved without being circumcised and keeping the entire ceremonial law. 

This was an important question, and one which affected the church in a very great degree. . . . The matter resulted in much discussion and want of harmony in the church, until finally the church at Antioch, apprehending that a division among them would occur from any further discussion of the question, decided to send Paul and Barnabas, together with some responsible men of Antioch, to Jerusalem, to lay the matter before the apostles and elders. . . . 

The Jews had prided themselves upon their divinely appointed services; and they concluded that as God once specified the Hebrew manner of worship, it was impossible that He should ever authorize a change in any of its specifications. They decided that Christianity must connect itself with the Jewish laws and ceremonies. They were slow to discern to the end of that which had been abolished by the death of Christ, and to perceive that all their sacrificial offerings had but prefigured the death of the Son of God, in which type had met its antitype, rendering valueless the divinely appointed ceremonies and sacrifices of the Jewish religion.—_The Story of Redemption_, pp. 304–306. 

Many look upon the days of Israel as a time of darkness, when men were without Christ, without repentance and faith. Many hold the erroneous doctrine that the religion of the children of Israel consisted in forms and ceremonies in which faith in Christ had no part. But men in that age were saved by Christ as verily as men are saved by Him today. . . . Christ was shadowed forth in the sacrifices and symbols, which were to last till type should reach antitype in His coming to our world. The Hebrews rejoiced in a Saviour to come. We rejoice in a Saviour who has come, and who is coming again. . . . Christ’s blood avails for us, as it did for ancient Israel.—_That I May Know Him_, p. 101.

If a brother is teaching error, those who are in responsible positions ought to know it; and if he is teaching truth, they ought to take their stand at his side. We should all know what is being taught among us; for if it is truth, we need to know it. . . . We are all under obligation to God to understand what He sends us. He has given directions by which we may test every doctrine—“To the law and to the testimony: if they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them.” But if it is according to this test, do not be so full of prejudice that you cannot acknowledge a point simply because it does not agree with your ideas.—_Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers_, pp. 110, 111.