---
title:  Further Thought
date:  16/11/2018
---

Ellen G. White, “A Seeker for Truth,” pp. 131-142;

“Jew and Gentile,” pp. 188-200, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“The council which decided this case was composed of apostles and teachers who had been prominent in raising up the Jewish and Gentile Christian churches, with chosen delegates from various places. Elders from Jerusalem and deputies from Antioch were present, and the most influential churches were represented. The council moved in accordance with the dictates of enlightened judgment, and with the dignity of a church established by the divine will. As a result of their deliberations they all saw that God Himself had answered the question at issue by bestowing upon the Gentiles the Holy Ghost; and they realized that it was their part to follow the guidance of the Spirit.

“The entire body of Christians was not called to vote upon the question. The ‘apostles and elders,’ men of influence and judgment, framed and issued the decree, which was thereupon generally accepted by the Christian churches. Not all, however, were pleased with the decision; there was a faction of ambitious and self-confident brethren who disagreed with it. These men assumed to engage in the work on their own responsibility. They indulged in much murmuring and faultfinding, proposing new plans and seeking to pull down the work of the men whom God had ordained to teach the gospel message. From the first the church has had such obstacles to meet and ever will have till the close of time.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 196, 197.

**Discussion Questions**

`What steps toward the resolution of conflicts found in the accounts we looked at this week can be applied to your church community if and when disagreements arise? Though one issue the church was dealing with here was theological, what can we learn from these accounts that can help the church when cultural, political, or ethnic issues threaten unity? What important principles can we take away from what we have seen?`

`Look again at the Ellen G. White quote above. Despite the positive outcome, some were still not satisfied. What lesson should we take away from this sad reality?`

**Summary**: The early church was threatened by internal conflicts over a number of issues that could have had a devastating effect on it. We saw the way that the church, under the guidance of the Holy Spirit and submission to the Word of God, was able to resolve these conflicts and avert schisms.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Acts of the Apostles_, “A Seeker for Truth,” pp. 131–142;

_The Acts of the Apostles_, “Jew and Gentile,” pp. 188–200.