---
title:  An Answer to Famine
date:  07/12/2020
---

#### inTerpret

The school of the prophets continued under the leadership of Elijah (2 Kings 2). After his ascension to heaven, the school was under the leadership of Elisha. Perhaps some of those prophets were included in heaven’s seven thousand heroes who never bowed the knee to Baal.

In one instance where the school of the prophets is mentioned, Elisha came to Gilgal, where there was famine in the land. A large pot was set before them with boiling stew for the sons of the prophets to eat. Wild edible plants were put into the stew, and when the food was poured out for the men to eat it, it was discovered that there was something deadly in the pot. Elisha then poured flour into the pot, and the food became edible.

Later, a man came from Baal-shalishah with bread and corn to give to the men to eat. However, the food was insufficient to fill the hungry men. At the word of the prophet, the food was set before the young men, where they ate and had leftovers. In the schools of Elisha, the Bible portrays miracles dealing with food during a time of famine.

The purpose of famine is not to kill people from hunger. Even though there was one in the land, God intended that His people be fed. The school of the prophets provided these young students an opportunity to develop their faith and to recognize that the answer was not dependent on them; it was dependent on what God could do for them. It was also a lesson to teach them that every crisis should be a call to prayer. Even after there was “death in the pot” (2 Kings 4:40), God miraculously preserved the lives of each of the students.

It is the work of education to develop these kinds of young people—individuals who have an experience with God to impart to others. Students must not have merely a theoretical understanding of God, but a living experience with Him that leads to a confidence in God’s ability and full persuasion that God’s character is love. Our world today needs schools that will elevate nations, churches, and communities by developing pupils who strive for spiritual as well as academic excellence, people whom God can use for such a time as this.

``