---
title:  A Heart With No Pride
date:  27/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Ezekiel 24:15–27; Exodus 32:1–14; Matthew 5:43–48; 1 Peter 2:18–25; Psalm 62:1–8.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Those who have no pride in their hearts are happy, because the earth will be given to them’ ” (Matthew 5:5, NLV).

DO YOU NOTICE that people don’t use the word “humble” much these days in conversation? It’s not hard to figure out why. The word “humble” means to “not feel that you are better than other people.” It also means “not wanting to fight or argue with other people” and “having a quiet and loving spirit.” No wonder we don’t hear much about the word “humble”! Not many people respect persons with a humble spirit today. Sometimes the Bible writes the word “humble” as “patient” or “meek.” A meek person is quiet, loving, and always ready to help other people. Again, we don’t see many humble or meek people walking around these days!

Humble people are patient when other people hurt them. Humble people don’t lose their tempers. They don’t get angry at people who wrong them. Humble people don’t wish to hurt other people who hurt them. Jesus was humble and patient. His followers learned to be the same as Jesus was. Being humble or patient can be a powerful tool or weapon. This weapon can help us fight against the pain that comes from suffering. Our troubles and suffering are wonderful experiences for learning about how to have a humble and patient heart. A heart with no pride and a humble life can be a powerful way to show Jesus to other people.