---
title:  Broken Bread And Poured-Out Wine 
date:  28/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Oswald Chambers wrote that we must become the same as “broken bread and poured-out wine” for other people. What do you think Oswald Chambers meant by this word picture?

All through the Bible, we read stories about “broken” people. God allowed these people to become “broken” in heart and spirit so that they can better serve other people. Moses is one example. The Israelites said mean and nasty things about Moses when he was their leader. But Moses led God’s people to the Promised Land anyway. Joseph was sold as a slave and later sent to prison. Then he became the second most powerful leader in Egypt. God allowed these terrible things to happen to Moses and Joseph. God used their troubles to show people His love. God also used these troubles to bless Moses and Joseph and His people. God may use us in the same way. Sure, we can feel angry or hurt when bad things happen. But as we saw yesterday, we must be patient. We must have a heart empty of any pride. Then we can serve God while we are suffering. We will bring a blessing to the people around us.

`Read Ezekiel 24:15–27. What’s happening in these verses? Why does God give Ezekiel this hard test?`

In Ezekiel 24:24, NIrV, God says, “What Ezekiel has done will show you what is going to happen to you. You will do just as he has done. Then you will know that I am the Lord and King.” Ezekiel’s behavior will show God’s people that God controls everything in heaven and on earth. Ezekiel’s example of suffering also will show the people the punishment they will suffer. Who knows how many people will see that God is “the Lord and King” because of our own suffering, too?

`Sooner or later, life “breaks” us or causes us to suffer. What has your experience been with being “broken” or suffering much pain? How can the Lord use your own “broken” spirit to help other people?`