---
title:  Asking For God’s Mercy 
date:  29/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What does Moses do after his people worship the gold cow? Read Exodus 32:1–14 for the answer.`

The people worship the gold cow. God decides that the people have done an awful sin. So, God announces that He will destroy the people. Then God offers to make Moses the father of a new people group. But Moses refuses to accept God’s offer. Moses asks God to forgive His people. So, God decides not to destroy Israel.

Exodus 32:1–14 shows us two important Bible truths. First, God’s offer to destroy the Israelites and bless Moses is a test. God wants Moses to show just how much love he feels for sinners. Moses passes the test. Moses asks God to show mercy to Israel. Jesus does this work, too. This part of the story shows us something very interesting. Sometimes God may let us suffer so that everyone in heaven can see how much love we have for sinners.

`Moses gives the Lord reasons why He should not destroy Israel. What are these reasons?`

The second Bible truth that Exodus 32:1–14 teaches us is that God shows us His mercy when we fail. People need mercy the most when they have behaved the worst. But we don’t really want to give mercy to people who behave badly. When Moses’ sister Miriam said mean and nasty things about him, what did Moses do? He showed her mercy. Moses asked God to heal her from her terrible skin disease (Numbers 12). When God was angry with Korah and his followers, God wanted to destroy them all. What did Moses do? He fell on his face and asked God to let Korah and his followers live. The next day, Israel complained against Moses. They blamed Moses for killing Korah and his followers. Again, God wanted to destroy the people. What did Moses do? Moses fell on his face again. He told Aaron to act quickly to save the people (Numbers 16). Moses is a man with no pride in his heart. He is patient and not selfish during difficult tests. Moses asked God for mercy for people who sinned against Him and should die.

`Think about the people around you who have hurt you. They need mercy and forgiveness. How can you show God’s mercy and forgiveness to them?`