---
title:  Loving The Ones Who Hurt Us 
date:  30/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Someone said: “How do we love our enemies? Here’s how. Let’s say that our enemies are the same as pearls in dirt. The dirt is a word picture for everything your enemy did to hurt you. Does loving our enemies (‘the pearls’) mean we must love the “dirt”? No. Loving our enemies means we love the “pearl” when they are dirty. God does not love us because we are easy to love. We become loving because God loves us.”

`When you look at your “enemies,” what do you see? The “pearl”? Or the “dirt” around it?`

`Jesus asks us to love our enemies and pray for them. What example from nature does Jesus give us in Matthew 5:43–48 that helps us understand why we should love our enemies? What Bible truth does Jesus want us to learn?`

In Matthew 5:45, Jesus uses the example of His Father in heaven to show us how we should love the ones who hurt us. Maybe they hurt us and caused a lot of suffering. Jesus says that His Father sends the blessing of rain to both good people and evil people. If God gives rain to evil people, what should we do for them, too?

Jesus isn’t saying that we should always have a happy feeling in our hearts for everyone who causes us trouble. Love for our enemies is not a feeling. Love for our enemies is a behavior. We show our enemies love when we care for them.

Jesus ends His talk about mercy with these words: “ ‘You must be good in every way, as your Father in heaven is good in every way’ ” (Matthew 5:48, WE). How can we behave the same way that God behaves? We can show love to our enemies just as God shows love to His enemies. Then we will be “perfect” in God’s eyes. We can love our enemies only if we have humble hearts. A humble heart is a heart empty of all pride. A humble person is patient. A humble person does not hurt the one who hurts him or her.

`Do you want a humble heart? What changes must you make? Make a list of these changes. Ask God to help you change so that you can love your “enemies.”`