---
title:  Not Saying Anything To Defend Yourself 
date:  31/08/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we have learned, a humble person has no pride in his or her heart. A humble person is patient and kind to the people who hurt him or her. Jesus is the most powerful Example we have of a humble person. Jesus says, “ ‘Do what I tell you. Learn what I teach you. I am gentle [loving and tender]. I am not proud. Then your hearts will rest’ ” (Matthew 11:29, WE).

`Read 1 Peter 2:18–25. Peter offers some surprising advice to Christian slaves. Peter tells them how Jesus behaved when people were mean to Him. Jesus “gave you an example to follow. He suffered for you. So you should do the same as he did” (1 Peter 2:21, ERV). How does Jesus show us a “humble heart”? How can we be humble while we suffer?`

We feel bad when we watch someone hurt another person for no good reason. We feel worse when we are the ones being hurt. We want to make things right because we want things to be fair in life. So, we get angry when we see the pain that innocent people suffer when other people hurt them.

We suffer when we carry anger in our hearts. So, what must we do? We must believe that our Father in heaven is in control. He will help us when doing so will bless other people and bring honor to His name. We must accept that God may not always keep us from suffering. In the same way, God did not keep Jesus from dying on the cross. We may suffer things that are not fair. But we must always remember that our Father in heaven is with us and is in control.

Peter’s advice to us is surprising. Why? Because when we do not fight back against the ones who blame us and cause our suffering, we show powerful proof of God’s love. Just look at Jesus. When Caiaphas and Pilate asked Jesus questions in court, how did Jesus answer? Did He defend Himself? No, He didn’t. Jesus said nothing. His silence was a witness that showed His humble heart.

`How do you behave when people are not fair or loving to you? How can you better show in your own life some of the important rules we learned today?`