---
title:  Jesus, Our Rock And Our Safe Place 
date:  01/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

So often the people who have the most pride in their hearts don’t really like who they are. Their pride is the same as a mask. These people use this “mask” of pride to hide. Or worse, they use it to cover the pride in their hearts. They hope no one will see that they are missing something important inside. What these people need is something we all need: to feel safe and to feel that they have worth and are accepted. We really need these things when we are suffering. In short, a humble heart, or heart with no pride, is powerful proof that someone is connected to Jesus. He is the same as a strong Rock. We can stand on this Rock and not be afraid. Jesus our Rock will protect us, too.

`Read Psalm 62:1–8. What is the reason that David wrote this psalm? What important rules is David teaching us? Most important, how can you follow these rules in your own life?`

“People will become our enemies for no good reason or cause. People will misunderstand why God’s people do things. People who don’t believe in God will believe the worst of God’s people. So, will other Christians who don’t really know the Lord. The Lord’s servants will be given hard tests. Men will blame God’s people for little things and make their mistakes seem bigger than they really are. Why will they do this? So, they can use the mistakes as an excuse for doing evil. . . . Evil men will accuse God’s people of not being honest. Other people will believe these lies. Then no one will trust the servants of God. Church members will make up the lies. During these times, God’s servants must do the same as Jesus. They must think the way Jesus thought. They must not expect to escape insult. They will be judged falsely. People will accuse them of being too holy. But God’s servants must not lose hope. God is in control. He guides His work. He will bring glory to His name.”—Ellen G. White, The Upward Look, page 267, adapted.

`Do you feel hurt when people insult you? God loved you so much that He died for your sins. How can this Bible truth help you understand your value? Also, how can the Bible protect you against insults?`