---
title:  Further Thought
date:  02/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Importance of Seeking True Knowledge,” pages 453, 454, in The Ministry of Healing; “The Sermon on the Mount,” pages 298–314, in The Desire of Ages; and “The Worker and His Qualifications,” page 630, in Evangelism.

“We will have troubles and hard tests in this life. These tests may be made easier if we have humble hearts. [A humble heart is a heart with no pride.] This is the same heart Jesus had on this earth. If we are the same as Jesus, then we will not be hurt when people insult us. Their insults will not make us sad. What is the one thing that shows that we are Christians most of all? Self-control. If someone hurts you, trust in God. Stay calm. If you fail to stay calm, then you ‘rob’ God. How do you ‘rob’ Him? You steal from Him the chance to show that His perfect Spirit lives inside you. A humble heart makes us strong. A humble heart helps us win our fights. When our hearts are humble, we show that we are connected to God in heaven.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 301, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How does a humble heart help us to stay strong when people insult us? How does a humble heart help us to heal from hurts and insults?`

`What do the people around you think about having a humble heart? Do they think it is a good thing? Or do they think it makes you weak?`

`Can you think of any modern examples of people with humble hearts? If yes, who are they? How do these people show that they have no pride in their hearts? What can you learn from their examples?`

`Why do you think we so often feel that having a humble heart makes you a weak person?`

`We saw how David went to God for strength and safety from danger. How does God make us feel safe today? What dangers does He free us from? How can we, as a church, help other people feel safe, too? What more can you do to make your church a safe place for the people who need it?`