---
title:  Living by the Spirit
date:   09/09/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh” (Gal. 5:16, ESV).

**Introduction**: Gal. 5:16

**Your Choice**

Light or dark, right or wrong, good or evil, selfless or selfish, Spirit or flesh, what do all of these have in common? They are all words that describe the forces that are warring within our hearts and minds every day. As humans, on our own we tend to make the choices that give us instant gratification. Now, one can blame the world we live in and how our culture and economy are basically built upon the foundation of instant gratification: our medicine makes our symptoms go away but may not treat the underlying cause, or we can find anything we could want or think of at the click of a mouse. In reality, what causes this is irrelevant. What is relevant is the need within our hearts. There is an empty space, a need that can only be filled by one thing alone: unconditional, perfect love—pure and simple. Finding unconditional, perfect love, though, is anything but pure and simple.

**Part of the freedom Jesus gave us is allowing us to choose to be free or to be slaves to the desires of our ﬂesh.**

Unconditional, perfect love includes hard work, time, patience, constant choices, and many other requirements. When humanity fell, it followed whichever force was the strongest, most convincing, or loudest. The most passionate would get a chance to try to fill that void. When Jesus died for us on that cross, He changed how that battle was and still is won today. No longer is the battle won by force. It does not matter who is louder, more passionate, or has a better argument. The simple reason is that Jesus won the battle. All that is left for us to do is to choose which one wins. Part of the freedom Jesus gave us is allowing us to choose to be free or to be slaves to the desires of our flesh. Both will fill the void for a time. Only one will fill that void forever.

If we do as Galatians 5:16 says, “Walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh” (NIV), that choice becomes easier. We will surrender our will to the One who loves us with that unconditional, perfect love. We may fail at times, but we will always have an unconditional, perfect love found in Jesus, the same Jesus who died to give us the ability to choose. Each of these forces: light/dark, right/wrong, good/ evil, selflessness/selfishness, and Spirit/flesh—they are all trying to fill that void—a void that only Jesus can fill. So the choice is up to you which will you choose.

_Sydney Linton, Lancaster, Massachusetts, USA_