---
title:  A Revolutionary Idea
date:   10/09/2017
---

**Evidence**: Gal. 2:15, 16; 3:3, 13, 14

The theme of living by the Spirit elicits a very important question in our minds today—what is the objective of living by the Spirit? We see the polar contrast between living by the flesh and living by the Spirit in the memory text—the lust of the flesh versus walking by the Spirit.To modern Christianity, this question seems almost redundant; but to the people who read Paul’s letter for the very first time, it probably sounded more like heresy. Take a minute to think of the cultural mind-set of the Jewish nation toward the newly converted Christians.

**God is always the One establishing the covenant.**

The covenantal thinking characteristic of the Old Testament instilled a focus on works.We first observe this in Genesis 17:9, 10, where God establishes the covenant with Abraham.

The covenant theme is reestablished during the Exodus, later in history. God is always the One establishing the covenant. “Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples, for all the earth is mine; and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation” (Exod. 19:5, 6, ESV). Basically, do this so that you could avoid that. In other words, “Keep the law so you can overcome the flesh” was the interpreted theme of the Old Testament covenants.

Paul’s revolutionary idea of living by the Spirit to overcome the flesh was perceived as fundamentally opposite to what the Jewish nation had been taught for centuries. This would be the equivalent to someone telling us that the death of Christ isn’t really the only source of salvation. After seeing Paul’s counsel to “walk in the Spirit” within the cultural mind-set of its original time, we can see the paradigm shift that was painstakingly starting to take place.

Both then and now, overcoming the carnal nature (flesh vs. Spirit) was the goal to attain.Keeping the law rigorously was their perceived idea of goodness. Today, the fruits of the Spirit have replaced such a standard (see Gal.5:22–24). The message for us today is—“If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit” (verse 25, ESV).

**React**

`1. What does living by the Spirit entail?`

`2. How do we practically overcome our carnal nature?`

`3. As young followers of Christ in our generation, what message would a Spirit-led life spread to others around us, particularly the unbelieving ones?`

_Ramiro A. Quero, Fall Creek, Oregon, USA_