---
title:  Take a Walk
date:   11/09/2017
---

**Logos**: Gal. 5:16

**Walking in the Spirit** (Gen. 5:23, 24)

Long, long before the penning of Paul’s letter to the Galatians, one man gave one of the best examples of what it means to walk in the Spirit. Enoch walked with God. He lived in such close communion with Him that even in those early days, God deemed him ready for heaven! (Gen. 5:23, 24).

Beyond physical action, to walk with God meant that Enoch knew God. He understood Him as He revealed Himself to be—and God in turn knew him.

**The Christian’s conﬂict has a cause and a solution.**

While times have changed, they haven’t strayed so far as you might be led to believe. God has made Himself explicitly accessible in the words of the Bible, a library of different people’s encounters with Him, His character, and His vision for life. His fingerprints are imprinted across the planet and out into the reaches of space.We have the opportunity to take a walk with God every day, but it requires us to notice Him, to acknowledge His presence, and to open our hearts to learn.

**The Christian’s Conflict** (Rom. 7:15–20)

Enoch exemplified the ideal.He lived the Christian’s goal.But in the trenches, in the here and now, it is not the same as when the stories of Adam and Eve and the Garden were told secondhand and thirdhand.It is easy for us to get distracted and lose focus in our impersonalized time, so far from the source of it all.

Paul describes the situation: “We know what is wrong, but we do it anyway.” Why? Why do we sin when we know it beforehand?

We do so because we no longer know what it means. Sin has become a weasel word. Like the word health, or good and bad, it bears little meaning because it’s been prey to so many different contexts. The Galatians of today fighting with the Laodiceans of today leave the sensible people in the middle at a loss for what is right and what is wrong. In Paul’s time, circumcision became a hill to die on. Today we have hills aplenty. In the end, the result is a sterling example of missing the point.

The Christian’s conflict has a cause and a solution.

There is no little black book of “bad stuff” for us to reference on each possible occasion.And there shouldn’t be.God doesn’t want mindless followers.He wants hearts and souls that yearn for the truth. Just as the law gave way to the gospel, so the followers of God give way to the family of God. “This is the way; walk in it” (Isa. 30:21, NIV). It comes to a choice to walk with or to walk alone.

**Works of the Flesh and Fruit of the Spirit** (Gal. 5:16, 17)

In Galatians 5:19–21, Paul gives a sturdy list of the sins of the flesh. Unfortunately, he lets them speak for themselves. In our world today, most of that list doesn’t. In fact, it’s likely already been spoken for; and in the process is portrayed as charming, harmless, and totally normal.

As Christians we have a particularly important call, and that is to be honest with ourselves always. Did you read that “Christians are never allowed to have fun?” If so, read again.

Let’s take a walk with Christ. What would He say? How would He act? Would He whisper in your ear, “You’re being a bad person; keep on like this, and you won’t be going to heaven for sure”? Not a chance!

Instead, He keeps you so busy on a joyous adventure that you can barely keep up. Calmly, lovingly, and without a hint of judgment, He shows you those who’ve come before who chased the tempting path.He understands the allure. He’s seen it so many times. But He also knows what happens next—every time.

It’s not a matter of judgment; it’s a matter of fact, a matter of love. After all, “Friend’s don’t let friends . . .”

Every moment digs further inside of you, eventually releasing up an effervescent well of crazy joy.You laugh because you just can’t help it.What many consider the most overrated qualities of life are often the most underrated: peace, patience, kindness, faithfulness, self-control, and so on.The fruits of the Spirit are the sweetest fruits you’ve ever tasted. It isn’t until you find happiness as a renewable resource that you realize how much you’ve had to supplement.

**The Way to Victory** (Matt. 7:7)

God’s wish for us all is a life of creativity, excitement, love, harmony, and joy, all within heaven, alongside Him and the rest of creation. Sin put that dream on hold. God can’t allow for sin to continue. But He also promised not to give us up, first with Adam, then Noah, and ultimately through Jesus.

For sin to be vanquished and peace in heaven to be eternal, it must be accomplished within the hearts and minds of each of heaven’s citizens. It must be accomplished on that ground. When Jesus comes again and the world is renewed, there will be a reason that sin is no more. It will not simply be because the Bible says so.God will not remove our ability to sin.Heaven won’t be so perfect that we won’t ever think of sin again. Not at all, in fact it will be that memory that grounds us.We will stride on to victory because we understand.

Lucifer invented sin in the perfection of heaven, pre-humanity. His pride became his downfall.The same could happen to anyone.But it won’t happen to everyone. Matthew 7:7 says, “ ‘Ask and it will be given to you; seek and you will find; knock and the door will be opened to you’ ” (NIV)—and walk and God will walk beside you.

_Tristan Reynolds, Tacoma, Washington, USA_