---
title:  The Problem of Sin
date:   12/09/2017
---

**Testimony**: Gal. 3:22

“Many have a vague idea that they must make some wonderful effort in order to gain the favor of God. But all self-dependence is vain. It is only by connecting with Jesus through faith that the sinner becomes a hopeful, believing child of God.”1

On our own, we can never have pure motives. Many people say things like, “I need to clean up my life and get my motives sorted out before seeking God.” This is impossible on our own; only through God and seeking Him will He give us the ability to truly desire goodness and to truly hate sin.

**An infinite and all-powerful Creator sees His children, so small and insignificant, as His greatest prize.**

“In Christ were united the human and the divine. His mission was to reconcile God and man, to unite the finite with the infinite.”2

“In consequence of [our] limited ideas of the sufferings of Christ, many place a low estimate upon the great work of the atonement. The glorious plan of man’s salvation was brought about through the infinite love of God the Father. In this divine plan is seen the most marvelous manifestation of the love of God to the fallen race.”3

An infinite and all-powerful Creator sees His children, so small and insignificant, as His greatest prize.

“The greatest want of the world is the want of men—men who will not be bought or sold; men who in their inmost souls are true and honest; men who do not fear to call sin by its right name; men whose conscience is as true to duty as the needle to the pole; men who will stand for the right though the heavens fall.”4

Only through complete surrender will we be able to see evil for what it is, and see the devastation it causes in our lives. The closer we grow to God, the more repelled we become from sin because He reveals to us the damage it causes and our need for something greater.

**React**

`Based on Scripture, what are ways we can truly allow God to lead us out of our sinful desires?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Christian Experience and Teachings of Ellen G.White, p. 18.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2, p. 201.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., p. 200.</sup>

<sup>4. Ellen G. White, Education, p. 57.</sup>

_Hannah Goldstein, Chattanooga, Tennessee, USA_