---
title:  Walking in the Spirit
date:   14/09/2017
---

**Opinion**: Gal. 5:19–21; Rev. 3:15, 16

If I close my eyes, I can still see and hear the chords, the voices, and his face.Family worship was usually a fun event growing up, and my father was a king of fun. I remember sitting squished together on a tiny couch or sprawled over a king-size bed; Dad, with his guitar in hand, rocking out the chords to some fun hymn or Scripture song.

There were many favorites, but the one that stands out today is “The Fruits of the Spirit”—a Scripture song Dad wrote himself. He would sing, “The fruit of the Spirit is peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law.”

**He has an obsession with authenticity.**

But what are the fruits of the Spirit? Perhaps our first instinct is to think of the things we do: a kind act, a thoughtful word spoken, or quiet patience in the midst of turmoil. But a closer examination reveals an interesting trend in Paul’s writing. Whenever Paul talks about the works of the flesh, he talks about behavior and practices.

“Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these” (Gal. 5:19–21, ESV).

However, when Paul talks about the fruits of the Spirit, he talks about dispositional traits. In other words, these are things pertaining to attitude rather than what you do. For instance, I can act very kindly, but inside I am doing it for very unkind reasons.

So when the Spirit of God bears fruit, it’s not just an outward manifestation, it effects an inward change. This is in harmony with one of the major themes of the Bible: being authentic. If we stop to think about it, the Bible says we are created in the image of God. Therefore, our fundamental likes and dislikes mirror His nature, so long as they are pure. How many of us appreciate a hypocrite? A fake friend? God can’t stand these things any more than we can. He has an obsession with authenticity.

“Would that you were cold or hot!” He says in Revelation 3:15, 16 (ESV), but “ ‘ “because you are lukewarm . . . I will spit you out of my mouth.” ’ ” If we only manifest outward works of love without the inward disposition or attitude of love, we are even less authentic than people who do the works of the flesh!

God wants to give us genuine attitudes of “love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness,” so that we and everyone else knows “we have been with Jesus.”

_Nathan Jones, Auburn, California, USA_