---
title:  Victorious Growth
date:   15/09/2017
---

**Exploration**: Rom. 8:14; Gal. 5:16–26

**Conclude**

Christian living is about growing in Christ, about becoming more like Him each day as we pray and study our Bibles. It is praying for victories over sin and sharing with others what God has done in our lives. It is the change in our lives that comes about as we draw closer to Him. As Christians, we have the joy of sharing with others what He has done for us and can do for them!

**Consider**

- Designing a chart showing the fruit of the Spirit. List the fruit and give two ways it can be observed in the Christian’s life.
- Participating in a Sabbath-afternoon walk. Take time to share with someone an idea that God is convicting your heart about and what action you plan to take.
- Composing a song of encouragement to sing or hum when conflict comes your way. Include praise to God.
- Surfing the Internet for examples of the fruit of the Spirit. Share your findings with your pastor or youth leader so they can add them to their library of sermon illustrations.
- Meditating on Mark 7:21, 22. What does God see in your heart? Where does evilness come from? Is there something in your life that you need to ask for God’s help in removing?
- Interviewing one of the members of your church. Find out what leads them to a victorious life. Pray with them for God’s continuous victory.
- Choosing some friends and preparing a skit portraying how to have victorious growth in your life. Share your skit with your Sabbath School class.

**Connect**

- Galatians 5:22, 23; 2 Corinthians 6:6; Hebrews 9:14.
- Ellen G. White, Acts of the Apostles, chapter 30, “Called to Reach a Higher Standard”; My Life Today, p. 317.
- Richard D. Patterson, “Fruit of the Spirit,” https://bible.org/article/fruit -spirit.
- Charles Stanley, The Wonderful Spirit-Filled Life (Thomas Nelson, 1995), pp. 3–12.

_Karen Pires, Pendleton, South Carolina, USA_