---
title:  Paul and the Ephesians
date:   24/06/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 18:18–21; Acts 19:13–20; Acts 19:21–20:1; Ephesians 1:1, 2; Ephesians 1:9, 10.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “He has shown us the plan he had. This plan was what he wanted to do through [by] Christ. When the right time came, God planned to bring together everything in heaven and on earth, and make Christ head [the leader] of them all” (Ephesians 1:9, 10, WE).

When we write something, we often have an important reason. In 1863, President Abraham Lincoln had an important reason for writing the well-known Gettysburg Address. Mr. Lincoln wrote this famous speech after the terrible fight at Gettysburg during the American Civil War. 7,000 soldiers died at Gettysburg. In the Gettysburg address, President Lincoln said that the Civil War was a test for America. This test would show if America would continue to grow as a country, or not.

Paul also has an important reason for writing to the Ephesians. Paul wants to give the Ephesians courage. The Ephesians lost hope because Paul is in prison. The Ephesians suffer for their faith, too. So, they are ready to give up. Paul tells the Ephesians to remember when they accepted Jesus as their Savior: they became part of God’s church (Ephesians 1:19–23; Ephesians 4:1–16). Now they are the same as a temple (Ephesians 2:19–22), Jesus’ bride (Ephesians 5:21–33), and a strong army (Ephesians 6:10–20). God has a plan for the Ephesians: God “planned that all things in heaven and on earth be joined together with Christ as the head [in charge]” (Ephesians 1:10, ERV).