---
title:  Paul, Preacher to the Ephesians
date:   25/06/2023
---

`What does Paul do during his first visit to Ephesus? Read Acts 18:18–21 for the answer.`

Ephesus was a big city in the Kingdom of Rome. During Roman times, Ephesus was the capital city of Asia. In Paul’s day, Asia was very rich and growing fast. (Today, this area is modern Turkey.) About 250,000 people lived in Ephesus in Paul’s day. Ephesus was built near water. The city was important because trade roads passed through it. The Ephesian people worshiped many gods. One of their gods was named Diana. Diana was the Roman moon goddess. (Diana also was named Artemis by the Greeks; read Acts 19:24, 35, KJV; NKJV.) The Ephesians believed that Diana protected their city. The Ephesians included the worship of Diana in every part of city life, from athletic games to celebrations.

Paul visited Ephesus a second time (Acts 19:1–12) and stayed for three years (Acts 20:31). Paul stayed so long because he wanted to help Christianity grow strong there.

`What strange thing happens in Ephesus when Paul is there? How does this story cause people to respect and honor God? Read Acts 19:13–20 for the answers.`

In Acts 19, Luke tells us a story about seven Jewish men. These men traveled from city to city to free people from demons. The seven men decided to say Jesus’ and Paul’s names with other magic words they used to force demons out of people. This decision was a big mistake. When the seven men used Jesus’ and Paul’s names to force a demon out of a man, something awful happened. The man with the evil spirit jumped on the seven Jews, beat them up, and tore off their clothes. When the people in the city heard what happened to the seven men, they honored Jesus’ name (Acts 19:17). Then some of the new Christians in Ephesus burned all their magic books in public. These books were worth “50,000 pieces of silver money” (Acts 19:19, NLV). The Christians in the city learned that they must not mix the worship of Jesus with magic or with other evil things.

`The new Christians burned their magic books. How does this action show us what was in their hearts? What does this story teach us about how much we must give the Lord?`