---
title:  A Wild Fight in the Theater
date:   26/06/2023
---

`Read Acts 19:21–20:1. What lessons can we learn from this story?`

Paul’s work for God in Ephesus was a big success. But his preaching made some people in the city upset. Paul preached against worshiping statues. So, many people stopped buying statues of the moon goddess Diana. The merchants in the city who sold the statues lost money. Then the merchants got very angry. They were filled with pride for their temple. Their temple was very beautiful, with 127 posts all around it. Each post was 60 feet tall and was made from Parian marble. In Bible times, Parian marble was the best marble. Parian marble was white as snow. 36 of the white marble posts were covered with gold. The temple was famous for its beauty. That is why in Bible times the temple was one of the Seven Wonders on the earth.

The merchants also worried that the people would stop giving offerings to the temple after they heard Paul preach (Acts 19:27). One merchant was named Demetrius the silversmith. A silversmith is someone who makes things from silver. Demetrius got other skilled workers in the city angry at Paul. Soon, a big crowd left the marketplace and went to the large theater in the city. This theater was big enough for 25,000 people. For two hours, the people in the theater continued to shout, “ ‘Great [mighty] is Artemis [Diana] of Ephesus!’ ” (Acts 19:34, ERV). Then the town leader came to the theater. He told the crowd to stop shouting and to leave. Then Paul met with the Christians and left the city.

`Paul met with the leaders of the Ephesian church at the end of his third trip to preach the Good News about Jesus. What did Paul talk about in this meeting? Read Acts 20:17–38 for the answer.`

Here are the things Paul did in Ephesus:

* A.D. 52: Paul visits Ephesus for the first time (Acts 18:18–21).
* A.D. 53–56: Paul comes back to Ephesus and works for three years (Acts 19:1–20:1). He writes 1 Corinthians near the end of his stay there (1 Corinthians 16:5–9).
* A.D. 57: While Paul is at Miletus, he meets with the church leaders from Ephesus (Acts 20:17–38).
* A.D. 62: Paul writes his letter to the Ephesians.