---
title:  Reading Ephesians in the Churches
date:   27/06/2023
---

Paul wanted someone to read his letter to the Christians in all the house churches in the city of Ephesus. After Paul left Ephesus, the Christian religion grew. Soon there were many new house churches. Paul sent Tychicus to visit these churches. Tychicus was Paul’s assistant. Tychicus visited the house churches and read Paul’s letter to church members. For sure, Tychicus’s visit and listening to him read Paul’s letter helped members of the house churches. A house church included father, mother, children, and slaves (Ephesians 5:21–6:9) that lived in the house. The house church also included other people that the owner of the house took care of and some of his customers. Many of these people may have been there when Tychicus read Paul’s letter. Members from other house churches may have joined, too.

`Read Paul’s letter to the Ephesians. (This letter should take about a half hour to read.) What important topics do you see in the letter?`

Topics in Ephesians:

1\. Opening greeting (Ephesians 1:1, 2).

2\. Blessing (Ephesians 1:3–14).

3\.Prayer for wisdom (Ephesians 1:15–23).

4\. Dead in the past; now alive with Jesus (Ephesians 2:1–10).

5\. Jesus makes His church from both Jews and non-Jews (Ephesians 2:11–22).

6\. Paul, preacher to the non-Jews (Ephesians 3:1–13).

7\. Praying for church members to know Jesus’ love (Ephesians 3:14–21).

8\. Peace and agreement in the church (Ephesians 4:1–16).

9\. Live the new life in Jesus (Ephesians 4:17–32).

10\. Love other people. Obey Bible truth. Be wise (Ephesians 5:1–20).

11\. Let Jesus change your life and lead you (Ephesians 5:21–6:9).

12\. The church is God’s “army” (Ephesians 6:10–20).

13\. Closing greeting (Ephesians 6:21–24).

`What important ideas do you see in Paul’s letter to the Ephesians? What does your answer say to you? What parts of Paul’s letter mean the most to you?`