---
title:  A Closer Look at Paul’s Letter
date:   28/06/2023
---

`How does Paul begin and end his letter to the Christians in Ephesus? What does Paul want most for the Ephesians? Read Ephesians 1:1, 2 and Ephesians 6:21–24 for the answer.`

In Ephesians 1:1, we learn that Paul wrote the letter to the Ephesians. Paul again names himself in the middle of the letter. He says, “I, Paul, am in prison because I am a missionary [worker who serves God in foreign countries] for Jesus Christ to you who are not Jews” (Ephesians 3:1, NLV). Then Paul talks about his work as a teacher and as a church leader (Ephesians 3:1–13). Near the end of the letter, Paul talks about being in prison (Ephesians 6:20). Then Paul ends his letter with some personal words (Ephesians 6:21, 22). Some Bible thinkers don’t believe Paul wrote the letter to the Ephesians. But the letter shows that Paul is the writer. Most Christians do accept that Paul wrote Ephesians.

`Paul worries about the Ephesians while he is in prison. Why is Paul worried about them? Read Ephesians 3:13 for the answer.`

Bible thinkers believe that Paul wrote Ephesians around the time he wrote his other letters from prison. These letters include Colossians (read Colossians 4:7, 8) and Philemon. Paul may have written the letter to the Ephesians while he was in prison in Rome, in about a.d 62.

Paul doesn’t tell us much about the Ephesian people. That’s because Paul spends his time explaining his message. The topics in Paul’s message are big and important. First, Paul talks about God’s decision before He made the earth (Ephesians 1:4). Then Paul talks about the gift of mercy that God offers us. Paul uses long sentences and several word pictures in his writing. Paul also uses special words again and again. Paul uses this same writing style in other places in the Bible. An example is Romans 8:31–39. But we see the best example of this style in Ephesians. Ephesians also has a lot of praise, prayer, and worship (Ephesians 1:3–14; Ephesians 1:15–23; Ephesians 3:14–21). Ephesians also has powerful sermons by Paul on important Bible truth (Ephesians 4:1–16; Ephesians 5:21–33; Ephesians 6:10–20).