---
title:  A Promise for the Journey
date:   29/06/2023
---

`How does Paul announce the topic of his letter? Read Ephesians 1:9, 10 for the answer.`

What is the big message in the Book of Ephesians? Paul writes about God’s plan for this planet and for the church’s part in this plan. God works with Jesus to make this plan happen. God “planned that all things in heaven and on earth be joined together with Christ as the head [leader]” (Ephesians 1:10, ERV). How does God plan to join everything together? He will use His church. The church will become a place where Jews and non-Jews join as one people (Ephesians 2:14). God commands His people to work together with Him. God’s enemies will see that God’s church is working with Him to make His plan happen (Ephesians 3:10). In this way, God’s enemies will see God’s wisdom.

The Book of Ephesians talks about Jesus. Paul praises the work that God does for us because of Jesus. Paul celebrates all the gifts that God gives us because of Jesus, too. Paul uses the words “in Christ [Jesus]” more than 30 times and other words that are almost the same. Paul praises Jesus everywhere in his letter. As you read the letter, look carefully for the words that Paul uses to talk about Jesus.

Paul wants the Christians in Ephesus to give their lives fully to God. So, Paul tells them to remember they are part of God’s church. When Paul uses the word “church” in his letter, what does he mean? Does the word mean the “local” church members or the worldwide church? The word “church” comes from the Greek word “ekklēsia.” Paul uses this word to mean the whole church and not the local church.

Paul uses many word pictures to talk about the church. Below is a list of four of these word pictures:

1. The church is the same as a human body (Ephesians 1:22, 23; Ephesians 2:16; Ephesians 3:6; Ephesians 4:1–16, 25; Ephesians 5:23, 29, 30).
2. The church is the same as a building or temple (Ephesians 2:19–22).
3. The church is the same as a bride (Ephesians 5:22–27).
4. The church is the same as an army (Ephesians 6:10–20).

Each word picture shows us God’s plan for His church.

`How can we work together with God’s plan for His church (Ephesians 1:9, 10)?`