---
title:  Additional thought
date:   30/06/2023
---

Review Sunday’s study about the story in Acts 19:13–20. This story is about seven men who tried to use the names of Jesus and Paul to force demons out of people. When people in Ephesus hear what happens, they believe that Jesus’ name is very powerful. Then some of the new Christians throw their expensive books about magic into the fire. Scientists found 250 pieces of paper from New Testament times. These pieces of paper come from books that talk about magic and curses. We believe this information is much the same as the information in the magic books that the Christians threw into the flames. These magic books told people what to do to convince gods, goddesses, and spirit powers to do whatever they asked.

Luke tells us that the Ephesians burned books worth 50,000 silver coins. This amount of money was the same as the pay for someone who worked for 50,000 days, or 136 years! How much is that amount worth in dollars today? Let’s say a skilled person from our time makes $80.00 per day. Then those 50,000 silver coins from Bible times may be worth $4 million dollars today! The price of these expensive books shows us that they were very important to people in Paul’s time.

This story helps us to see why Paul wrote to the Ephesians. They needed to know “what to do about attacks against them from Satan.”—Clinton E. Arnold, Power and Magic: The Concept of Power in Ephesians (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Books, 1992), page 165, adapted. Paul gives the new Christians in Ephesus his answer. His answer is the Letter to the Ephesians. This letter shows us Jesus. Jesus is above every power (Ephesians 1:20–23). Jesus gives strength to everyone who believes in Him (Ephesians 2:15–19; Ephesians 3:14–21; Ephesians 6:10–20).

**Discussion Questions**:

`What powers or leaders control our lives today? How strong are these powers? How do they try to get people to honor and respect them above Jesus?`

`Review Paul’s use of the word “hope” in Ephesians 1:18; Ephesians 2:12; and Ephesians 4:4. Why does Paul believe there is hope for the future?`