---
title: From North and South to the Beautiful Land
date: 3/7/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK'S LESSON:**

Daniel 11:1–14; Daniel 8:3–8, 20–22; Isaiah 46:9, 10; Daniel 11:16–39.

> **MEMORY VERSE:** <p></p>
> “‘Some of the wise people will stumble [fall] and make mistakes. But the persecution [hard times] must come so that they can be made stronger and purer [clean and holy] until the time of the end. Then, at the right time, that time of the end will come’” (Daniel 11:35, ERV).

DANIEL 11 is not easy to understand. So, we need to be clear about some things from the start. Then we will understand the chapter better. First, Daniel 11 shows us the same message that we already saw in Daniel 2; Daniel 7; Daniel 8; and Daniel 9. The message in all these chapters starts in the days of Daniel and continues to the end of time. Second, we see different kingdoms rise to power. These kingdoms often hurt God’s people. Third, each chapter shows us a happy ending. In Daniel 2, the Son of Man gets the kingdom. In Daniel 8 and Daniel 9, Jesus makes heaven’s temple clean.

Daniel 11 has three basic parts. First, it starts with the Persian kings and what will happen to them. Then the chapter tells us about the end of time when the king of the North fights against God’s holy mountain. Second, the king of the North and the king of the South fight each other many times. Daniel 11 shows us how these wars hurt God’s people. Third, Daniel 11 shows a happy ending: God’s mountain destroys the king of the North. We see that evil ends forever. Then God sets up His everlasting kingdom.

The king of the North and the king of the South fight each other many times.
