---
title:  Special Messages About Persia And Greece
date:   15/03/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 11:1–4. What happens in these verses? How do these things help us remember the other future happenings we have studied in Daniel?`

The angel Gabriel tells Daniel that three more kings will control Persia. A 4th king will rise after them. This king will be the richest king Persia ever had. He will make the Greeks angry. History shows us that after King Cyrus, three more kings rise to power in Persia. They are Cambyses (530–522 b.c.), the False Smerdis (522 b.c.), and Darius the First (522–486 b.c.). The fourth king is Xerxes. He is named Ahasuerus in the book of Esther. Ahasuerus is very rich (Esther 1:1–7). King Xerxes forms a very big army. Then he marches into Greece just as Gabriel says he will. King Xerxes is very powerful. His army is much larger than the Greek army. But the Greek soldiers push Xerxes out of their country.

Then in Daniel 11:3, a mighty Greek king rises up. It is easy to see that this king is Alexander. Alexander becomes the leader of the whole earth. He dies when he is only 32 years old. He has no son to take control of his kingdom. So, Alexander’s four generals divide his kingdom. Each of them takes a part of it. Seleucus takes over Syria and Mesopotamia. Ptolemy takes over Egypt. Lysimachus takes over Thrace and parts of Asia Minor, or modern Turkey. And Cassander takes over Macedonia and Greece.

Compare Daniel 11:2–4 with Daniel 8:3–8, 20–22. How do we know that Alexander is the king that these verses talk about?

`What can we learn from the names, dates, places, and happenings in these verses? First, we learn that the special message about the future happens exactly as the angel says. God’s messages to us never fail. Second, God controls history. He controls everything that happens. So, we can trust that He will destroy evil forever and set up His everlasting kingdom.`

God controls history. He controls everything that happens.
