---
title: Special Messages About Syria And Egypt
date: 3/17/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 11:5–14. What happens in these verses?`

Alexander dies. Then his four generals divide his kingdom. Each general takes a piece of the kingdom. Two of the generals are Seleucus in Syria (the North) and Ptolemy in Egypt (the South). The future children of these two generals fight each other for control over the land.

Daniel 11:5–14 shows the wars between the king of the North and the king of the South. Most Bible students believe these wars show the many fights between Seleucus’s future children and Ptolemy’s future children. The special message in Daniel 11 shows us that the daughter of the northern king will marry the southern king. But the agreement will not last long (Daniel 11:6). History shows us that Antiochus the Second Theos (261–246 b.c.) marries Berenice. Antiochus the Second Theos is a grandson of Seleucus the First. Berenice is a daughter of Ptolemy the Second Philadelphus. But their marriage does not bring peace for very long. Soon, the two kingdoms start fighting each other again. God’s people get hurt in the many fights.

Why does God show ahead of time all this information about kingdoms and wars? The reason is simple: these wars hurt God’s people. So, the Lord announces what will happen in the future. Then His people will know about the trouble that lies in the years ahead. Remember, God controls history. When we compare the Bible with history, we see that everything happens exactly as God says. That shows us something important about God. He knows the future. So, He is worthy of our trust and faith. Our God is a big God. He is not a false statue made by humans. Yes, God is in charge of history. But He also will control our lives if we allow Him to do so.

`Read Isaiah 46:9, 10. What Bible truths do these verses teach us? What hope does this truth give you? Isaiah 46:10 would be very scary if God was mean and full of hate, right?`

When we compare the Bible with history, we see that everything happens exactly as God says.
