---
title:  Rome And The Prince Of The Agreement
date:   17/3/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 11:16–28. For sure, these verses are not easy to understand. What word pictures, or symbols, can you see in these verses? Where else do you read about these same symbols in the book of Daniel?`

In Daniel 11:16, we see a change in power from the Greek kings to the kingdom of Rome. First, the king of the North is a word picture for Greece. But now it becomes a word picture for Rome: “ ‘The northern king will do whatever he wants. No one will be able to stop him. He will gain power and control in the Beautiful Land, and he will have the power to destroy it’ ” (Daniel 11:16, ERV). The Beautiful Land is Jerusalem. The northern king that takes control of that area is the kingdom of Rome. We see the same thing happen in Daniel 8 when the little horn makes its kingdom bigger. The little horn stretches its kingdom into Jerusalem (Daniel 8:9). So, it is clear that the power in charge of the earth at this time is the kingdom of Rome.

Chapter 11 gives us some more hints that support this view. We read about something that one of the future kings of the North, or the kingdom of Rome, does: “ ‘the next king of the North will send out a tax collector’ ” (Daniel 11:20, ICB). This verse shows us Caesar Augustus. Jesus is born when Augustus is king. Mary and Joseph travel to Bethlehem during this time. Also, Daniel 11 shows us that Augustus will be followed by a very mean king (Daniel 11:21). History shows us that Tiberius became the leader of the kingdom of Rome after Augustus. Augustus adopted Tiberius as his son. Tiberius is known as a tricky and evil man.

Daniel 11 shows us that “ ‘a prince of the covenant [agreement] will be destroyed’” (Daniel 11:22, NIrV) during the time that Tiberius is king. What does that show us? It shows us that Jesus will die on the cross. Jesus also is named “Messiah [Chosen One] the Prince” (Daniel 9:25, KJV; also read Matthew 27:33–50). So, we see that Jesus dies during the time that Tiberius is king. This verse about Jesus is powerful proof that God knows the future.

“‘A prince of the covenant [agreement] will be destroyed’” (Daniel 11:22, NIrV). This verse is powerful proof that God knows the future.
