---
title: The Next Kingdom
date: 3/19/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 11:29–39. As these verses show us, what kingdom rises to power after the kingdom of Rome?`

Daniel 11:29–39 shows us a new kingdom on the earth. This kingdom is part of the old kingdom of Rome. It does many of the same things that the kingdom of Rome does. But this new power also is different (Daniel 11:29). The Bible says, “‘But this time things will turn out differently [not the same as before]’” (Daniel 11:29, NIrV). We also see that this new kingdom behaves the same as a religious power. It makes an attack against God and His people. Let us look at some of the things that this new power does.

First, this power will “‘take out his anger on the holy agreement’” (Daniel 11:30, ERV). The agreement is God’s plan to save us. This new power hates God’s plan.

Second, this new power “ ‘will send his army to do terrible [awful] things to the Temple in Jerusalem. They will stop the people from offering the daily sacrifice [burnt gifts]’ ” (Daniel 11:31, ERV). We saw in Daniel 8 that the little horn “ ‘took away the burnt gifts which were given to Him [God] each day, and destroyed His holy place’ ” (Daniel 8:11, NLV). So, the new power in Daniel 11 will make a spiritual attack against Jesus’ work in heaven’s temple.

Third, this power “ ‘will set up that terrible [evil] thing that causes destruction [ruin]’ ” (Daniel 11:31, ERV). That happens after his attack on Jesus’ work in heaven. This power’s behavior shows us he is at war against God. He acts the same as the little horn in Daniel 8:13.

Fourth, this power wars against God’s people (Daniel 11:35). This war helps us remember the little horn in Daniel 8:10. (See also Daniel 7:25.) The little horn throws some of the stars to the ground. You will remember that the stars are a word picture for God’s people. So, the little horn shows us that he will hurt and kill God’s people.

Fifth, this new power “‘will praise himself and think he is even better than a god. He will say things against the God of gods that no one has ever heard’” (Daniel 11:36, ICB). The little horn “‘also had a mouth that was bragging’” (Daniel 7:8, ERV). He says proud words against God (Daniel 7:25).

The little horn throws some of the stars to the ground. Stars are a word picture for God’s people So, we see that the little horn will hurt and kill God’s people.
