---
title:  End-Time Happenings
date:   19/03/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`What happens in Daniel 11:40–45?`

Let us look at some of the words in these verses. The words will help us understand the verses better:

**“The time of the end”** (Daniel 11:40, ERV). The book of Daniel shows us that “the time of the end” starts in 1798. It ends when Jesus wakes up the dead (Daniel 12:2).

**“The king of the North”** (Daniel 11:40, ICB). This name shows us different powers at different times in history. First, the king of the North shows us the Seleucid family that takes over part of Alexander’s kingdom. But later, the king of the North shows us the Roman Catholic Church. So, the king of the North is not a word picture for a place. It shows us the spiritual enemy of God’s people. In the Bible, the north is a word picture for God’s power (Isaiah 14:13). So, this king’s name shows us that he tries to replace God.

**“The king of the South”** (Daniel 11:40, ICB). At first, this name shows us the Ptolemaic family in Egypt. Egypt is south of the Holy Land. But later, the king of the South becomes a word picture for people who do not believe in God. Ellen G. White says, atheism is the teaching that there is no God. “Egypt is a word picture for atheism.”—The Great Controversy, page 269, adapted.

**The Beautiful Land**. In Old Testament times, the Beautiful Land is a word picture for Zion. Zion is another name for Jerusalem, the capital city of Israel, the land of the Jews. After the cross, God’s people include both Jews and non-Jews. So, the Beautiful Land shows us all God’s people.

`What does this information tell us? Here is one possible explanation: (1) The king of the South fights the king of the North. Their war is a word picture for the French Revolution. The French Revolution tries to end religion and the Roman Catholic Church. But it fails. (2) The king of the North fights the king of the South and beats him. This war shows us that the Roman Catholic Church’s army and its friends will beat atheism. Then they will join with it! (3) Edom, Moab, and the people of Ammon will escape Rome’s power. Edom, Moab, and Ammon are word pictures for people who are not part of God’s church. But at the end of time, they will join God’s people. (4) The king of the North gets ready to attack the Beautiful Land. God destroys the king of the North and all evil powers. Then God starts His everlasting kingdom.`

Atheism is the teaching that there is no God. In the Bible, “Egypt is a word picture for atheism.”
