---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   20/3/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**:

Martin Luther believed that the “ ‘terrible [evil] thing that causes destruction [ruin]’ ” in Daniel 11:31 (ERV) showed the Roman Catholic Church and its teachings. So, we can see from Luther that there is a clear connection between Daniel 11 and Daniel 7 and Daniel 8. All of these chapters show us the work and teachings of the Roman Catholic Church in history. Ellen G. White says: “The Roman Catholic Church did not allow any church under its control to enjoy freedom. No church was allowed to decide what was right or wrong for itself. As soon as the Roman Catholic Church got power, she used her power to destroy anyone who did not accept her control. One after another, all the churches came under the church’s control and power.”—The Great Controversy, page 62, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. We must show that we care about the feelings of other people who do not believe what we do. So, we always should be kind and gentle to people when we witness to them. How can we share in a loving way with people the truth about the part that the Roman Catholic Church will have in the end times?`

`2. Daniel 11:33, ICB, says: “ ‘Those [God’s people] who are wise will help the others [people] understand what is happening. But some of them will be killed with swords. Some will be burned or taken captive [taken prisoner]. Some of them will have their homes and things taken away. These things will continue for many days.’ ” What does this verse tell us will happen to God’s people because of their faith? What are many of these people doing before they are killed? What lesson does that teach us today?`

`3. Daniel 11:36, ICB, says: “ ‘The king of the North will do whatever he wants. He will brag about himself. He will praise himself and think he is even better than a god. He will say things against the God of gods that no one has ever heard. He will be successful [have success] until all the bad things have happened. What God has planned to happen will happen.’ ” Who and what does this verse help you remember? (For a hint, read Isaiah 14:12–17; read also 2 Thessalonians 2:1–4.)`

“‘Those [God’s people] who are wise will help the others [people] understand what is happening’” (Daniel 11:33).
