---
title:  Further Thought
date:  01/05/2026
---

The purpose of Bible study is to know God and to grow in your relationship with Him, for this is what life eternal is—to be forever with the God we love (John 5:39, John 17:3).

Part of any relationship is mutual engagement. We read in Revelation 3:20 that Jesus seeks to have this with us, yet we must realize that, as created beings, we can always learn more about our Creator. Like a miner digging for precious jewels, we should be constantly searching in the Bible. There is always more to glean, no matter how many times we’ve read certain stories or Bible passages. “Whatever may be man’s intellectual advancement, let him not for a moment think that there is no need of thorough and continuous searching of the Scriptures for greater light. As a people, we are called individually to be students of prophecy.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels to Writers and Editors, p. 41.

We also should not try to make the Bible fit into our own human opinions or thoughts. “How shall we search the Scriptures? Shall we drive our stakes of doctrine one after another, and then try to make all Scripture meet our established opinions? or shall we take our ideas and views to the Scriptures, and measure our theories on every side by the Scriptures of truth? Many who read and even teach the Bible, do not comprehend the precious truth they are teaching or studying. . . . Many give the words of Scripture a meaning that suits their own opinions.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels to Writers and Editors, p. 36.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What attitude do you usually come to the Bible with? Is there anything that needs to shift? Why is an attitude of humility and surrender to the Word so crucial?`

`Are there any established opinions that you might need to lay aside to allow Scripture to speak for itself? If so, how can you start praying about them right now?`

`How might originality become a stumbling block in a person’s outward relationship with God? That is, how might the desire to find something new and innovative lead someone astray, especially if they are doing it for selfish purposes?`

**Summary**: Personal Bible study is at the heart of having a vibrant and enduring relationship with God. God’s Word speaks into our twenty-first-century lives in meaningful ways, just as it has during past centuries. In a similar way to keeping any friendship alive, we should look for ways to keep our devotional lives vivid as we abide in Jesus, trusting His promise that His Word “ ‘shall not return to Me void, but it shall accomplish what I please, and it shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it’ ” (Isa. 55:11, NKJV).

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Reflecting Christ, “Study the Divine Guidebook in Worship,” June 16, p. 181.\
The Upward Look, “The Bible—God’s Word to You,” February 7, p. 52.\
