---
title:  Satan and His Team of Evil Powers
date:   23/02/2019
---

_Yes, God tells us what will happen in the end time. But He does not tell us exactly when things will happen and how._

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Revelation 13

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “Then the dragon was very angry at the woman. He went off to make war against all her other children. Her children are those [people] who obey God’s commands and have the truth that Jesus taught” (Revelation 12:17, ICB).

**REVELATION 12** shows us Satan’s attacks against God’s loyal people during the 1,260 days or years (a.d. 538–1798; read Revelation 12:6, 13, 14). Chapter 13 tells us more about Satan’s attacks at different times in Christian history. In the end times, Satan uses two powers on earth to do his work. The Bible shows us these two powers as dangerous animals. Together, they work against God’s plan to save humans. These evil powers try to win the hearts of people.

We need to be careful as we continue our study of end- time happenings. So far, we talked about the things that already happened in the past. But starting with Tuesday’s study, we will talk about things that have not happened. God gave us these special messages about the future so that we will not be surprised about what will happen. Yes, God tells us what will happen. But He does not tell us exactly when things will happen and how. So, we must be careful not to try to make God’s special messages about the future say things that they are not trying to tell us. Let us not forget that God gave us these messages to teach us how to live today and to help us get ready for what will happen in the future.