---
title:  The Wild Animal From The Sea 
date:   24/02/2019
---

_The wild sea­animal power acts the same as a god. That is because Satan wants this power to take the place of Jesus in peo­ ple’s minds and hearts._

`Revelation 13:1–4, 8 and Revelation 17:8 show us the wild sea animal. How does this animal, at different times, become different from what it was before?`

John watches a large animal climb out of the sea. In the Bible, animals often are word pictures for governments. But John shows us that the wild sea animal also is a religious power that behaves the same way as a government. In Revelation 13, the sea is a word picture for the large num- ber of people living in the land of Europe. The wild sea animal rises to power out of the land of Europe after the Roman Empire came to an end (read Revelation 17:15).

The wild sea animal has seven heads and ten horns, the same as the dragon in Revelation 12:3. The seven heads and ten horns show us that the wild sea animal is connected to the Roman Kingdom. What are these heads? They are the govern- ments that Satan used to attack God’s people at different times in history (Revelation 17:9–11). On the heads of the wild sea animal we see an awful name written. This name shows us that the wild sea animal hates God. The wild sea animal has horns on its head, too, and crowns on its horns. The awful name on the wild sea animal’s heads shows us that it thinks it has the same power God has. The ten horns help us remember Daniel 7:24. That verse talks about the countries that came from the Roman Kingdom after it ended. These pictures about the wild sea animal help show us who it is. We see that the wild sea animal is the Roman Catholic Church during the Middle Ages. As the wild sea animal climbs out of the water, it looks the same as a leopard mixed with a bear and a lion. We see that the wild sea animal is four animals all in one animal. These four animal powers are word pictures for kingdoms that ruled the earth in the past. In Daniel 7:2–7, we learn that these powers are Babylon, Media-Persia, Greece, and Rome. Do you see that John’s list of animal powers starts with the animal power that is the last one on Daniel’s list? John did that to show us that the wild animal coming up from the sea rules on earth after the 4th animal in Daniel 7. That 4th animal is the Roman Kingdom. In Revelation 13, Satan gives the wild sea animal its power. This second member of Satan’s team acts the same as a god. That is because Satan wants this wild sea animal to take the place of Jesus in people’s minds and hearts.