---
title:  What Does The Wild Sea­Animal Power Do?
date:   25/02/2019
---

The wild sea­animal power gets a deep cut that almost makes it die. That deep cut shows us that the power of the Roman Catholic Church ends for a time.

Revelation 13:5 talks about a time when the wild sea-animal power attacks God’s people. The attacks continue for 42 months. The 42 months are the same time as the 1,260 days that Satan attacks the woman in Revelation 12:14. We learned that a woman can be a word picture for a church. “Days” in the Bible’s special messages about the end time also are word pictures: one day equals one real year (Ezekiel 4:6; Numbers 14:34). The year a.d. 538 is the start of the 42 months or 1,260 days (or real years). At this time, the Roman Catholic Church becomes a religious power that controls Europe during the Middle Ages. Then, the French Revolution ends the Roman Catholic Church’s power in a.d. 1798. The Bible shows us this fact in the word picture of the wild sea animal who gets a deep cut that almost makes it die. That deep cut shows us that the power of the Roman Catholic church ends for a while.

`Compare the wild sea animal in Revelation 13:5–8 with the little horn in Daniel 7:24, 25. Read about the man of sin in 2 Thessalonians 2:2–12. How does the wild sea animal act the same as both the little horn and the man of sin?`

The wild sea animal’s behavior during the 1,260-year period of history shows us that he wars against God and tries to steal God’s power for himself. There is a special name for the wild sea animal’s sin. It is named blasphemy. What is blasphemy? In the New Testament, blasphemy can mean bragging that you are equal to God (John 10:33; Matthew 26:63–65). Blasphemy also can mean trying to act the same as God (Mark 2:7). The wild sea-animal power shows he is guilty of blasphemy against God. How? He “spoke [said bad things] against God’s name, against the place where God lives, and against all those [people] who live in heaven” (Revelation 13:6, ICB). Where does God live? In the sanctuary. The sanctuary is the place in heav- en where Jesus works right now to save His people. The wild sea animal tries to remove Jesus’ power to save His people. How? He replaces Jesus and His work for us as our High Priest, or holy leader, with human priests. The wild sea-animal power says that these priests can both save humans and forgive sins. These are two things only God can do. That is why the wild sea-animal power is guilty of blasphemy, or acting the same as God.