---
title:  The Wild Animal From The Land
date:   26/02/2019
---

_The wild land animal is a word picture for only one end­time power on the earth: the United States of America._

The first half of Revelation 13 tells us about the Roman Catholic Church in the Middle Ages during the time of 1,260 days, or 1,260 real years. After the French Revolution, this religious government got a deep cut that almost killed it. The deep cut is a word picture that shows us that the wild sea-animal power, or Roman Catholic Church, lost its power. But this deep cut will be healed. Then the Roman Catholic Church will get back the power it had before in the Middle Ages. The second half of Revelation 13 shows us how the deep cut of the wild sea animal, or Roman Catholic Church, will be healed.

`How does John show the second wild animal power in Revelation 13:11? This second wild animal comes from the land. Why does this animal come from the land and not from the sea? Hint: read Revelation 12:14–16.`

John sees another wild animal. But this one comes from the land. This second wild animal is as powerful as the first wild animal from the sea. But the two wild animals also are different. The first wild animal is very scary to look at, the same as a monster. But the wild land animal does not look scary. It has “two horns like [the same as] a lamb” (Revelation 13:11, NKJV). The lamb in the book of Revelation is a word picture for Jesus. So, that tells us that the wild land animal seems to act the same as Jesus.

The wild land animal comes from the same land where God protected the woman. You will remember that a woman is a word picture for God’s church. The wild land animal becomes strong out of this same land where God protected His church. That happens at the end of the 1,260 days of the dragon’s attacks against God’s church (Revelation 12:14–16). At that time, the wild sea animal, or Roman Catholic Church, gets the deep cut that almost killed it during the French Revolution. So, that tells us that the wild land animal is a word picture for only one end-time power on earth: the United States of America.

Revelation 13:11 shows us that soon the wild land-animal power that looks the same as a lamb will start to talk as a dragon. The wild land-animal power will try to make everyone on earth worship the wild sea-animal power. That shows us that the country that offered a safe place to God’s church will attack God’s people at the end time.