---
title:  The False God That Looks The Same As The Wild Sea Animal 
date:   27/02/2019
---

_The healed cut shows us that the wild sea­animal power gets back the power it had during the Middle Ages._

`How do 1 Kings 18:38 and Acts 2:3 help us under­ stand the wild land animal’s tricks in Revelation 13:12, 13? What is the wild land animal’s biggest trick of all?`

The wild land animal will trick people into believing what it says is true, even when its words do not agree with the Bible. How will the wild land animal trick so many people? It will use “the power of demons to heal people and do mir- acles.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 588, adapted.

At the same time, the wild sea animal’s deep cut will heal. Its healed cut shows us that the Roman Catholic Church will get back the same power it had in the Middle Ages. At the same time, the wild land animal will start to talk the same as a dragon. It will have all the power of the wild sea animal. The wild land animal will act the same as the wild sea animal did in the Middle Ages. The wild land animal will not let people worship the way they want. Then “the wild land animal that looks the same as a lamb will talk as a dragon. . . . ‘He told those [people] who live on the earth to make a god that looks like [the same as] the first wild animal’ [Revelation 13:14, NLV]. This verse shows that the wild land animal is a symbol for a government whose people have power to make the laws that govern them: the United States.

“But what is the ‘god that looks like [the same as] the first wild animal?’ . . . If you want to understand what the ‘god’ is and how it is made, then you must study the wild sea animal itself—the Roman Catholic Church.

When the church turned away from Bible truth, she became rotten. She lost the Spirit and God’s power. Then the church used the government to control people’s minds, to make herself powerful, and to punish anyone who disagreed with her teachings. . . . When the churches in America join together to cause the government to support their laws, Protestant America will become an exact copy of the Roman Catholic Church. Then the Protestant churches will punish anyone who does not obey their laws. . . . The ‘god that looks like [the same as] the first wild animal’ is a word picture for what will happen when Protestant churches in America use their government to punish anyone who does not support their teachings.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 442–445, adapted.