---
title:  The Wild Sea Animal’S Mark
date:   28/02/2019
---

_The wild sea animal’s mark attacks the Sabbath. The mark shows that the wild sea animal put a false day of worship in place of God’s Sabbath._

`Read about the wild sea animal’s mark in Revelation 13:16, 17. The wild sea animal’s mark is the proof of his power. Now read Deuteronomy 6:4–8. The wild land ani­ mal works for the wild sea animal and causes the wild sea animal’s mark to be put on the right hand or on the forehead. What does this mark have to do with God’s law?`

The wild land animal will force people everywhere, rich and poor, to accept the wild sea animal’s mark on the right hand or on the forehead. The wild sea animal’s mark is not a mark or stamp you can see. So, if you cannot see the mark, then what does it mean when a person gets the mark on the right hand or on the forehead? Look at Deuteronomy 6:8. Do you see that Moses commands the Israelites to put God’s law on their hands or foreheads? The hand is a word picture for behavior. The forehead is a word picture for the mind. This information helps us understand Revelation 13:16, 17. Some people will accept the mark on the hand so that they will not be killed. Other people will accept the mark on the forehead to show that they fully worship this wild sea animal with their hearts.

The wild sea animal’s mark attacks the Sabbath. The mark shows that the wild sea animal put a false day of wor- ship in place of God’s Sabbath. What do we see today that shows this change really happened? The answer: Sunday worship (read Daniel 7:25). “The wild sea animal’s mark is Sunday worship. The Roman Catholic Church changed God’s Sabbath to Sunday. . . . In the future, a law shall be made that forces people to honor Sunday. Then the 3rd angel’s message will warn humans not to worship the wild sea animal power and his false sabbath. . . . Anyone who continues to keep Sunday holy will get the wild sea animal’s mark.”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism [preaching the Good News about Jesus everywhere], pages 234, 235, adapted.

Revelation 13:18, NIrV, says: “Anyone who is wise should figure out what the beast’s [wild sea animal’s] num- ber means. It is the number of a man. And that number is 666.” Who is this man? Paul says he is “the Man of Evil” (2 Thessalonians 2:3, ERV). That name points us to the wild sea-animal power, who is a symbol for the Roman Catholic Church. The wild sea animal has an awful name written on his heads. This name shows us that he attacks God’s law and tries to replace the Son of God on earth.