---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   01/03/2019
---

“When the law shall be made that forces people to worship on a false sab­ bath, the loud cry of the 3rd angel shall warn men not to worship the wild sea­animal power and the ‘false god’ made to honor his power.”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism, page 234, adapted.

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: The book of Revelation tells us that at the end of history, the Sabbath will be a test to show everyone on earth who God’s loyal followers are. But we must remember that Sunday worship does not mean that a person has the wild sea animal’s mark right now. Soon, in the future, Sunday worship will become the wild sea animal’s mark. That means that Sunday keeping will be the special mark that shows the wild sea animal’s power. At that time, people will have a chance to understand clearly what it will mean to choose to worship on Saturday or Sunday as the right day of worship. Then they will make their choice either to serve God or Satan. But that time has not happened. It is in the future.

“No one at this time has gotten the wild sea animal’s mark. Our testing time is not here now. There are true Christians in every church. That includes the Roman Catholic Church. God does not judge people for turning against the Sabbath truth until they have a chance to understand it first and know that He wants them to keep the Sabbath holy. But when the law shall be made that forces people to worship on a false sabbath, the loud cry of the 3rd angel shall warn men to not worship the wild sea animal and the ‘false god’ made to honor his power. At that time, we will see false and true worship divide people. Then those people who con- tinue to sin against the truth will get the wild sea animal’s mark.”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism [preaching the Good News about Jesus everywhere], page 234, adapted.

Let us remember that Sunday worship today does not mean a person is not saved any more than keeping the Sabbath makes a person saved. But the time will come when each person will see that the wild sea animal’s mark is the most important question in the end time. Then our choice of the day we will worship will test our loyalty to God. The book of Revelation asks God’s people to study the end-time happen- ings in the Bible with open hearts that want to know the truth. Then people must do everything they can to share the truth with others who do not know the Good News about Jesus.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. What do you see happening on earth today that seems the same as what you read about in Revelation 13?`

`2. As we witness to Christians from other churches, how can we show respect for them and their beliefs?`