src/en/2019-02-er/04/01.md, before:

---
title: 'Do You Feel Lonely'
date: 20/04/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ecclesiastes 4:9–12; 1 Corinthians 7:25–34; Malachi 2:16; Hosea 2:19, 20.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Then the Lord God said, ‘I see that it is not good for the man to be alone. I will make the companion [female helper] he needs, one just right for him’ ” (Genesis 2:18, ERV).

**MANY PEOPLE FEEL LONELY**. They live alone. They do not have a lot of friends. They are not married. They have no children. Their family does not live close by. Or maybe they have no family at all. So, they spend a lot of time alone. That makes them feel sad.

In 2016, The New York Times newspaper wrote a story about lonely people. The scientists in the news story gave a report about lonely people. The report said that many people felt very lonely in life. Sadly, this problem is worldwide. And it is very real.

Was it ever God’s plan for humans to feel alone? No! From the start, God wanted us to feel close to other people. He wanted us to be close to our families, the person we married, our children, and our friends. God planned it that way in Eden. But then sin came. Nothing has been right since then.  

Most of us have felt lonely at some time in our lives. During that time, we may wish we had someone to talk to.  This week, we will look at the questions: What does it mean to feel lonely? Why are we alone at different times in our lives? And why is having good friends so important?

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/04/01.md, after:

---
title: 'Do You Feel Lonely'
date: 20/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ecclesiastes 4:9–12; 1 Corinthians 7:25–34; Malachi 2:16; Hosea 2:19, 20.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Then the Lord God said, ‘I see that it is not good for the man to be alone. I will make the companion [female helper] he needs, one just right for him’ ” (Genesis 2:18, ERV).

**MANY PEOPLE FEEL LONELY**. They live alone. They do not have a lot of friends. They are not married. They have no children. Their family does not live close by. Or maybe they have no family at all. So, they spend a lot of time alone. That makes them feel sad.

In 2016, The New York Times newspaper wrote a story about lonely people. The scientists in the news story gave a report about lonely people. The report said that many people felt very lonely in life. Sadly, this problem is worldwide. And it is very real.

Was it ever God’s plan for humans to feel alone? No! From the start, God wanted us to feel close to other people. He wanted us to be close to our families, the person we married, our children, and our friends. God planned it that way in Eden. But then sin came. Nothing has been right since then.  

Most of us have felt lonely at some time in our lives. During that time, we may wish we had someone to talk to.  This week, we will look at the questions: What does it mean to feel lonely? Why are we alone at different times in our lives? And why is having good friends so important?
