---
title: Friendship
date: 21/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What basic idea is Ecclesiastes 4:9–12 talking about? What important rule about life do these verses teach us?`

Very few of us can live with no friends. But what about people who like being alone most of the time? Even they need people too. Sooner or later, we want to spend time with someone else. We may even need to. We need friends to do things with us that we both enjoy. People who have close families should be very thankful. Family members can give them support and love when they need it most. Not everyone has a family or feels close to their family.

There are people who need help. Sadly, they do not know anyone who can help them. They have no one to talk to. You may not know that these people are everywhere around you. They are in church. They are at work. They live next door. You may meet one of these people sometimes. We can feel lonely at any time. One man who was not married said that he felt lonely on Sunday more than any other day. During the week people were all around him at work. On Sabbath, he saw people at church. “But on Sunday I am alone,” he said.

`What important rules can we learn from John 16:32, 33 and Philippians 4:11–13? How can these rules help us when we are feeling lonely?`

As Christians, we know that God is real. He is our Friend too. So, we can feel happy knowing that God wants us to feel close to Him. But we must remember something. Yes, Adam was close to God in Eden. But that did not stop God from making Adam a wife. God said, “ ‘I see that it is not good for the man to be alone’ ” (Genesis 2:18, ERV). God saw that Adam needed a human to be close to. That was true in Eden. It is true for us now, even more so. Why? Because we live on an earth hurt by sin. 

But we must be careful. Do not make the mistake of thinking that people are not lonely just because there are many people around them. Some very lonely people live in big cities. They meet many people all the time. But they feel alone anyway because they do not feel close to anyone.

`It is not easy to know who feels lonely. What can you do as a friend to help the lonely people around you?`