---
title: 'The Single Person'
date: 22/04/2019
---

Not everyone wants to get married. A young woman gave reasons why she chose to be alone. “Twice in my life I served God in different countries. Both times I was asked, I went right away.” A married person may not be able to do that. He or she must think first: How will my decision change the lives of my family?

`What good reasons does Paul give for staying single? Read 1 Corinthians 7:25–34 for the answer.`

God said, “ ‘It is not good for the man to be alone’ ” (Genesis 2:18, ERV). So, most people think marriage is God’s plan for their lives. But the Bible gives us many examples of people who did not marry. Jesus never married. 

God tells Jeremiah not to marry (Jeremiah 16:1–3). Jeremiah is God’s special messenger. God tells Jeremiah not to marry for a special reason. God wants Jeremiah to be a word picture. Jeremiah’s life shows Israel what God will do to punish their sins. Israel broke God’s law. So, God tells Jeremiah not to marry or have any kids. Soon, God’s people will not have children either. Their sons and daughters will all get sick and die (Jeremiah 16:4). 

Ezekiel was another special messenger from God. Ezekiel’s wife died with no warning. God did not let Ezekiel cry or be sad. God told Ezekiel to go on and do the work God gave him (Ezekiel 24:15–18). Hosea was another special messenger. God told Hosea to marry a prostitute (Hosea 1–3). A female prostitute is a woman who sells sex for money. Hosea’s story may seem strange to us. His wife ran away many times. He kept going after her. No doubt it was hard for Hosea to be a word picture for God’s love. But God used Hosea’s broken marriage to show His love to Israel. Israel ran away from God many times to worship false gods. But God ran after Israel and brought them back. 

None of these men needed to be married or have a perfect marriage. God worked in their lives anyway. Many people will tell us that we must be married. Or we cannot be a whole person. But what does Paul say? “Don’t [do not] change yourselves to be like [the same as] the people of this world [the earth]” (Romans 12:2, ERV). And “Let your bodies be a living and holy gift given to God” (Romans 12:1, NLV).