---
title:  "WHEN A MARRIAGE ENDS (Malachi 2:16)"Daily Lesson
date:   23/04/2019
---



Think of all the awful ways that sin hurts humans. There is no doubt that sin hurts the family most of all. 
When a person dies, it can hurt a family very deeply. Divorce can hurt us and our families in the same way. People who get a divorce can feel many different things. Most of all, they can feel very sad. For some people, this sad feeling can last for many months. Other people can feel sad for several years after a divorce. Some people will feel afraid. They fear what will happen in the future. They may worry about money too. They may not know how to stay strong when they feel so much pain. Some people may feel very sad, angry, and lonely for a very long time. 

`What does the Bible teach us about divorce? Read Malachi 2:16; Matthew 5:31, 32; Mathew 19:8; and 1 Corinthians 7:11–13 for the answers.`

“God uses the church to save humans and make them new. As church members, we must let God work in us. Then we can help other church members. We can give them what they need. We can show that we care for each other. In this way, church members help each other grow in God’s love. Our Christian experience grows stronger too. Church members need help and support from other members when they get a divorce. What should the church do when a couple’s marriage is about to end? The church should do everything the Bible says to do to help that couple save their marriage (Hosea 3:1–3; 1 Corinthians 7:10, 11; 1 Corinthians 13:4–7; Galatians 6:1). 

“There are special classes and a lot of good information today that teach us how to build a strong marriage. You should be able to get this information from your church. What do these special classes and information include? They include: (1) Special classes for couples who are about to get married. (2) Classes that teach couples how to be better parents. (3) Support groups that help people heal from divorce.”—The Seventh-day Adventist Church Manual [guide], 19th edition (Nampa, ID: Pacific Press® Publishing Association, 2016), page 161, adapted. 

`What are ways you can help someone heal from a divorce? How can you show him or her God’s love? Why is it important for you to not make this person feel judged?`