---
title: 'Death And Loneliness'
date: 24/04/2019
---

All our friendships and close connections will end sooner or later. Death will take our loved ones from us. Death is our biggest enemy. Even if our marriage is very strong, it will end when our husband or wife dies. Our closest friendships will end too. All the time we spend together will end. As humans, we know that all these things will happen. Nothing will change this sad fact until Jesus comes back.

The Bible does not tell us who died first: Adam or Eve. But it must have been awful for the one who was left alive. Death was never meant to be part of life. Adam and Eve were deeply sad when they saw the first leaf die. They cried about it the same way we cry when someone we love dies. So, we cannot guess how much it hurt Adam or Eve when one of them died. 

The problem is we are so used to death. So, we just accept it. But death is pain that God never wanted us to feel. We try hard to understand death. But we cannot. 

`What does the Bible teach us about death? Why do people have a hard time with death? For answers, read Isaiah 57:1; Revelation 21:4; 1 Thessalonians 4:17, 18; Matthew 5:4; 2 Samuel 18:33; Genesis 37:34.`
 
Yes, we all will die some time. We all will feel pain when our loved ones die too. Sooner or later, we will face a time, or season, when we are lonely because of death. Death hurts. It is hard to understand. During these times, the best thing we can do is trust in God’s promises. In this life of sin and death, what else do we have?

`How can your church help people who suffer because someone they loved died? What can you do to help them feel less lonely and sad?`