src/en/2019-02-er/04/06.md, before:

---
title: 'When You Are Married But Feel Alone'
date: 25/04/2019
---

Why do some married people feel alone and lonely? That is just how a young woman named Natalie felt. Natalie was married for seven years. Then a friend invited her to church. The church was Seventh-day Adventist. Natalie loved the truth she learned there. She gave her heart to Jesus and joined the church. But everyone in her family told her not to join. Her husband and parents were against Natalie’s decision. Even her next-door neighbor told her not to join the Seventh-day Adventist church! But Natalie joined anyway. She was born again. Her faith changed her life. And she changed her life to obey her faith. 

As you can guess, Natalie’s choice did not make her life easy. Her husband was very mad. He said, “You are not the person I married. I want you to stop changing!”

For years now, Natalie has been trying to live a life of faith. She is married, but she feels so alone.

`What words of hope does the Bible give people who are married but feel alone? For the answers, read Hosea 2:19, 20; Isaiah 54:5; and Psalm 72:12.`

There are people the same as Natalie in our church. They are the only person in their family who goes to church.These people are husbands or wives. But they go to church alone. Or they go only with their children. They may be married to a person of a different religion. Or maybe when they joined the church, their husband or wife did not. Maybe both were members of the same church. But then one of them stopped coming to church and even hates the church now. These people in our church are men and women who go to prayer meeting and potluck dinner alone. They worship alone. They are sad because they cannot give more money to the church. They want to give more. But their husband or wife will not let them. Yes, they are married. But they may feel the same as a widow or widower. A widower is a man whose wife died.

At some time, we all have met people in the church who feel this way. They need our deepest love and support.

`What can we do as a church family to help the married people in our church who feel alone?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/04/06.md, after:

---
title: 'When You Are Married But Feel Alone'
date: 25/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Why do some married people feel alone and lonely? That is just how a young woman named Natalie felt. Natalie was married for seven years. Then a friend invited her to church. The church was Seventh-day Adventist. Natalie loved the truth she learned there. She gave her heart to Jesus and joined the church. But everyone in her family told her not to join. Her husband and parents were against Natalie’s decision. Even her next-door neighbor told her not to join the Seventh-day Adventist church! But Natalie joined anyway. She was born again. Her faith changed her life. And she changed her life to obey her faith. 

As you can guess, Natalie’s choice did not make her life easy. Her husband was very mad. He said, “You are not the person I married. I want you to stop changing!”

For years now, Natalie has been trying to live a life of faith. She is married, but she feels so alone.

`What words of hope does the Bible give people who are married but feel alone? For the answers, read Hosea 2:19, 20; Isaiah 54:5; and Psalm 72:12.`

There are people the same as Natalie in our church. They are the only person in their family who goes to church.These people are husbands or wives. But they go to church alone. Or they go only with their children. They may be married to a person of a different religion. Or maybe when they joined the church, their husband or wife did not. Maybe both were members of the same church. But then one of them stopped coming to church and even hates the church now. These people in our church are men and women who go to prayer meeting and potluck dinner alone. They worship alone. They are sad because they cannot give more money to the church. They want to give more. But their husband or wife will not let them. Yes, they are married. But they may feel the same as a widow or widower. A widower is a man whose wife died.

At some time, we all have met people in the church who feel this way. They need our deepest love and support.

`What can we do as a church family to help the married people in our church who feel alone?`
