src/en/2019-02-er/04/07.md, before:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 26/04/2019
---

“Enoch lived a busy life. He worked very hard. But he always made time to talk to God. Even when he had a lot to do, he always took time to pray. There were times when Enoch stayed away from everyone. He chose to be alone for a while after he helped people and taught them God’s truth. At these special times, Enoch wanted to be alone with God. Enoch was ‘hungry’ for knowledge about God. Only God can give humans this knowledge. Enoch started to change the more time he spent with God. Enoch’s own life started to show the holy life of God more and more. His face was bright. It glowed with a holy light. This light came from Jesus’ face. Then Enoch went back to the people again. Even people who did not follow God saw heaven’s light in Enoch’s face. It filled them with wonder.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel [about the Good News] Workers, page 52, adapted. The story of Enoch gives us hope. It has a powerful message for us about why we need time alone with God. But many people who are alone never wanted to be alone. Yes, we can have a beautiful connection with God when we are alone. But sometimes we want human friends. That is why it is very important for our church to help those who are lonely. We must be ready to reach out to them. There may be lonely people sitting in the seat next to you. If you are feeling lonely, please let someone at church know how you feel. Many times we cannot tell what another person feels just by looking at them. It is easy for some people to hide behind a mask, or false face. They may smile on the outside. But inside they may be feeling lonely and sad. So, we need to ask people how they are feeling. We must really mean it. We can show that we care by being ready to listen to them. We can give them support too.  

**Discussion questions**

`1. How can your church do more to help church members who feel lonely?`

`2. Paul wrote: “I have learned to be happy with whatever I have” (Philippians 4:11, NLV). What lesson do Paul’s words have for our lives? How can this verse help someone who feels alone? At the same time, this verse may not be the best thing to say to someone who feels alone and is hurting. Why must we be careful not to use this verse in the wrong way?`

`3. In class, talk about a time when you felt so lonely. What helped you? What hurt you? What did you learn that can help other people?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/04/07.md, after:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 26/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Enoch lived a busy life. He worked very hard. But he always made time to talk to God. Even when he had a lot to do, he always took time to pray. There were times when Enoch stayed away from everyone. He chose to be alone for a while after he helped people and taught them God’s truth. At these special times, Enoch wanted to be alone with God. Enoch was ‘hungry’ for knowledge about God. Only God can give humans this knowledge. Enoch started to change the more time he spent with God. Enoch’s own life started to show the holy life of God more and more. His face was bright. It glowed with a holy light. This light came from Jesus’ face. Then Enoch went back to the people again. Even people who did not follow God saw heaven’s light in Enoch’s face. It filled them with wonder.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel [about the Good News] Workers, page 52, adapted. The story of Enoch gives us hope. It has a powerful message for us about why we need time alone with God. But many people who are alone never wanted to be alone. Yes, we can have a beautiful connection with God when we are alone. But sometimes we want human friends. That is why it is very important for our church to help those who are lonely. We must be ready to reach out to them. There may be lonely people sitting in the seat next to you. If you are feeling lonely, please let someone at church know how you feel. Many times we cannot tell what another person feels just by looking at them. It is easy for some people to hide behind a mask, or false face. They may smile on the outside. But inside they may be feeling lonely and sad. So, we need to ask people how they are feeling. We must really mean it. We can show that we care by being ready to listen to them. We can give them support too.  

**Discussion questions**

`1. How can your church do more to help church members who feel lonely?`

`2. Paul wrote: “I have learned to be happy with whatever I have” (Philippians 4:11, NLV). What lesson do Paul’s words have for our lives? How can this verse help someone who feels alone? At the same time, this verse may not be the best thing to say to someone who feels alone and is hurting. Why must we be careful not to use this verse in the wrong way?`

`3. In class, talk about a time when you felt so lonely. What helped you? What hurt you? What did you learn that can help other people?`
