---
title:  God Pours out His Holy Spirit on His People
date:   07/07/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 2:1–4; John 14:16; Acts 2:5–13; Joel 2:28–32; Acts 2:22–39; Psalm 110:1–3. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘Jesus is the one God raised [woke up] from death. We are all witnesses of this. We saw him. Jesus was lifted up to heaven. Now he is with God, at God’s right side. The Father has given the Holy Spirit to him, as he promised. So Jesus has now poured out that Spirit. This is what you see and hear’ ” (Acts 2:32, 33, ERV).

WHAT DOES THE BIBLE MEAN by the word “Pentecost”? Pentecost comes from the Greek word “pentekoste.” It is the name for the Jewish religious festival known as the Jewish Feast of Weeks (Exodus 34:22), or the Feast of the Firstfruits (Numbers 28:26). Firstfruits are the first crops from the harvest. People gave the firstfruits to God as gifts, fifty days after the Passover. The Passover is a special Jewish feast. Passover celebrates the time that God freed Israel from slavery in Egypt. So, the Feast of the Firstfruits is a day of joy and thanksgiving. On that day, Israel brought God the “first gathering of grain” (Exodus 34:22, NLV).

The Feast of the Firstfruits became a word picture for the first spiritual “harvest” of the Christian church. At that time, God poured out the Holy Spirit on His people more fully than before. Then 3,000 people were baptized on one day (Acts 2:41). Many Bible thinkers say that Pentecost is the birthday of the church. Pentecost was the time in Bible history that Jesus’ followers, both Jews and later non-Jews, became God’s new community of believers on earth.