---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   09/07/2018
---

Talking In Different Languages (Acts 2:5–12)

In Acts 2:4, the Holy Spirit gives Jesus’ followers power to speak languages they did not know before. This gift is one of many gifts from the Holy Spirit (Acts 10:45, 46; Acts 19:6). Other examples of gifts from the Holy Spirit are: (1) knowing the future (Acts 11:28); (2) special dreams from God (Acts 7:55); (3) speaking messages from God (Acts 2:8; Acts 28:25); (4) healing (Acts 3:6, 12; Acts 5:12, 16); and (5) having the wisdom and skill to do special work for God (Acts 6:3, 5). 
Why does the Holy Spirit give Jesus’ followers the gift of speaking different languages? Remember that in Acts 1:8, Jesus gives His followers special work to do on Earth. So, Jesus’ followers need to speak the same languages as the people who need to know the Good News. 

We learned that Pentecost was the special time when God poured out the gift of the Holy Spirit on His church. Now read Acts 2:5–12. How do these verses prove that church leaders spoke in new languages at Pentecost? 

How many Jews lived on the earth in the first century (years 1–100 A.D.)? Some Bible experts say there were less than two million Jews. Other experts say there were as many as eight million. Experts also say that maybe 60 percent of these Jews did not live in Judea, a part of Israel in the south. Many Jews from different lands traveled to Jerusalem for Pentecost. But these Jews did not speak Aramaic. The Jews who grew up in Judea spoke Aramaic at that time.
The church leaders do not speak in unknown or strange languages that no one understands. They speak in new languages. How do we know? We know because Acts 2:6, 8 uses the word dialektos. It means the language of a country or a group of people (read Acts 21:40; Acts 22:2; Acts 26:14). Clearly, Jesus’ followers speak in the different languages of that time. It is a miracle that these men from Galilee now speak in languages they did not know how to speak only a few minutes before! Some Jews who hear Jesus’ followers speak in these different languages think that Jesus’s followers are drunk “from too much wine” (Acts 2:13, ERV).

Many people think that too much wine—and not God—causes Jesus’ followers to speak in different languages. How can we be careful not to think the same way ourselves?

TUESDAY								       JULY 10
