---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   10/07/2018
---

Peter’s Sermon (Acts 2:22–32)

As we learned yesterday, some Jews think Peter is drunk (Acts 2). Their misunderstanding gives Peter the chance to explain the truth to the Jews about what is really happening. First, Peter points to the Bible (Acts 2:16–21). Peter uses the Bible to show the Jews that God is pouring the Holy Spirit on His people just as He promised. 

Read Acts 2:17 and Joel 2:28. How are these two verses the same? When does Peter believe that Joel’s special message from God will happen?

Joel’s special message from God is a promise about the future. It talks about a future time when God will save His people (Joel 2:32). Many things will happen in nature at that time to show that God is ready to save His people. God will also pour His Spirit on His people during that time (Joel 2:28–31). Peter wants to help the Jews understand what is happening in Jerusalem. So, Peter reminds the Jews about Joel’s message. Peter hopes Joel’s message will help the Jews see that Pentecost is very important. When Peter says the verses in Joel, he makes an important change. Let us look at Joel’s words and then how Peter says them. Joel begins his verse with the words “ ‘After this’ ” (Joel 2:28, ERV). “ ‘After this’ ” means that something will happen in the future. But Peter changes these words from “ ‘After this’ ” to “ ‘In the last days’ ” (Acts 2:17). This change shows us that the last part in God’s big plan to save us has just started. The early church does not know when the end will happen. But they believe it will be soon. 

Read Peter’s sermon in Acts 2:22–32. What is the most important truth in Peter’s sermon about the Good News?

Peter talks about Jesus’ life, death, and His coming back to life from death. Peter spends the most time talking about Jesus’ coming back to life. Why? Because Jesus’ coming back to life is the biggest proof that Jesus is the Savior that God promised to send His people (Acts 2:22, 27). Peter uses Old Testament verses to help show the Jews how important Jesus’ coming back to life really is. 

Death is all around us. So, why is Jesus’ coming back to life from death such an important truth?

WEDNESDAY								       JULY 11 