---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   12/07/2018
---

The “First Fruits” (Acts 2:38, 39)

The Jews in Jerusalem listen to Peter talk. Peter’s words cut into their hearts. Some of the Jews listening to Peter may be the same people who asked the Romans to kill Jesus a few weeks earlier (Luke 23:13–25). But now, these same people believe that Jesus of Nazareth is God’s Chosen One. God chose Jesus to save His people from sin. The Jews who listen to Peter are very sad and sorry. They cry out: “ ‘What shall we do?’ ” (Acts 2:37, ICB).

Read Acts 2:38. As these verses show us, what two things do we need to have for God to forgive us?

Repentance means we feel sorry about sinning against God and others. Repentance means we fully change our lives. Repentance also means we turn away from our sins and stop doing them (Acts 3:19; Acts 26:20). Feeling sorry for our sins is more than feeling sad that we sinned. True repentance and faith are gifts we get from God. But we can choose to turn away from the gift of repentance or any of God’s gifts (Acts 5:31–33; Acts 26:19–21; Romans 2:4).
Starting from the time of John the Baptist, believers connected repentance with baptism (Mark 1:4). Baptism became an example of feeling sorry about sinning. Baptism became a word picture for two things: (1) God’s washing away sin from the believer’s life and (2) the Holy Spirit’s giving the believer a new heart and mind to obey God (Acts 2:38; Acts 22:16; read also Titus 3:5–7)

In Acts 2:38, 39, God makes a special promise to anyone who turns away from sin and is baptized. What does God promise?

God offers the Jews listening to Peter the Holy Spirit and the gifts of forgiveness for sin. The Spirit will help His people grow, serve the church, and do God’s work (1 Peter 2:9). What a wonderful gift! God starts the church because He wants its members to share the Good News with other people. From now on, the believers will know that God saves them. The Holy Spirit will help them share the Good News that Jesus gave them before He went to heaven.

What hope in Jesus can we offer people if we do not fully believe that Jesus washes away all our sins? 
FRIDAY								       JULY 13
