---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   13/07/2018
---

Additional Thought
God poured out the Holy Spirit on His church at Pentecost. Pentecost was the time when Jesus’ followers, both Jews and, later, non-Jews, became God’s new community of believers on earth. God’s gift of the Holy Spirit to the church shows us an important truth. This gift shows us when Jesus’ work in heaven started for us. It also shows us that heaven and earth are connected in amazing ways we cannot fully understand. 
“God lifts up Jesus to heaven. Jesus’ going to heaven showed His followers that soon they will get the gift of the Holy Spirit that Jesus promised to them. . . . Jesus enters heaven’s gates. He sits on a throne with angels all around Him. These angels honor Him. As soon as the angels finish honoring Jesus on the throne, God pours out the Holy Spirit on Jesus’ followers. God gives Jesus glory and honor at the same time He pours out His Spirit on Jesus’ followers. This honor and glory belonged to Jesus before anything was made. This honor and glory is the same honor and glory Jesus shared with God the Father. God pours out the Holy Spirit at Pentecost to show that He accepts Jesus as man’s Savior. God gives Jesus all power in heaven and on earth. Jesus is now our King and High Priest. [A High Priest is someone who works to save His people and bring them to God.] God’s gift of the Holy Spirit to Jesus’ followers proves that Jesus is now their King and High Priest.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 38, 39, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

1.	What things happened at Pentecost that our church today will experience in the same way?

2.	The Jews in Jesus’ time wait for the Messiah. The Messiah is the Savior. God chooses the Messiah to save His people from sin. But no one in Jesus’ time thinks that the Messiah will die and come back to life. What important lesson can this idea teach us? Why do we need to know what the Bible teaches? 

3.	Acts 2:38 talks about how believers need to be baptized. What if someone believes in Jesus but dies before getting baptized? Will he or she be saved or not? Give reasons for your answer. 
