---
title: Entering the Garden
date: 07/12/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 18**

**Entering the Garden**

John 18 shows the narrative reaching the full arrival of Jesus’ hour, beginning with His experience in the Garden of Gethsemane. John’s entire Gospel has been building toward this climax (John 2:4; 7:30; 8:20; 12:23; 13:1). Chapters 18 and 19 intertwine, weaving a tapestry of Jesus’ arrest (18:1–12), Annas questioning Him (18:13–27), the trial before Pilate (18:28—19:16), His crucifixion and death (19:17–37), and His burial (19:38–42). This lesson will focus on chapter 18. As you study the passage, look for themes that relate to Christ’s identity. Similarly, pay attention to John’s use of irony, such as how the Jewish religious leaders and Romans sought to put to death the One who is life itself!

To reach the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus and His disciples would have walked down from the city to the east side, passing the Brook Kidron (18:1) at the foot of the Mount of Olives. There are several points of contrast and similarity between John’s account of events and the Synoptic writers’. For example, John didn’t include the name of the meeting place or record Jesus’ struggle in prayer (see Matt. 26:36–46; Mark 14:32–42; Luke 22:39–46). In contrast, Christ’s prayer in John 17 is full of assurance. Jesus knew what was about to occur (John 13:1; 18:4). Instead of pleading that the cup be removed from Him (Matt. 26:39; Mark 14:36; Luke 22:42), Jesus embraced the cup as a gift from His Father (John 18:11). While John still identified Judas as the betrayer (18:2, 3, 5), he did not include Judas identifying Jesus with a kiss (Matt. 26:47–50; Mark 14:43–46; Luke 22:47, 48). Rather, Jesus took the lead and identified Himself to those sent to arrest Him.

#### inScribe

Take some time to enter a relaxed and prayerful state of mind. Slowly read John 18:17–27 in a translation you don’t usually use. Create a drawing or mind map of what you discovered. Share it with your study group.

` `