---
title: Confrontation
date: 08/12/2024
---

#### inGest

The Gospel of John is unique in identifying the setting of Jesus’ arrest as a garden (John 18:1, 26). Similarly, only John informs us that Jesus was buried in a garden (19:41). A garden was also the setting where humanity first fell into sin (Gen. 2:15; 3:1–10). Jesus conquered in the place where Adam and Eve were conquered. After describing the location of Jesus’ arrest, John revealed it was a well-known spot to which Jesus often withdrew—a place where Judas expected to find Jesus. According to tradition, this is where Jesus held His nighttime conversation with Nicodemus. That conversation where Jesus first described His mission (John 3:12–15) shared a common setting with the fulfillment of those words at the conclusion of His ministry.

The authorities who came to arrest Jesus were both Roman soldiers and Jewish temple police. John underscored that this confrontation involved both the state and religious authorities. The Passover and the large number of visitors to the city likely required a heightened security presence. It was certainly a large group to arrest one man (18:3). A Roman detachment typically contained between two hundred and six hundred soldiers, all of whom were well-trained and armed.

Jesus confronted them, asking whom they were seeking. When they said, “Jesus of Nazareth,” Jesus unhesitatingly answered, “I am He” (18:4, 5). As in other places in the Gospel, the word “He” was added to the English translation (vv. 5, 6, 8). Jesus was reiterating His claim that He is the I AM of Exodus. He again identified Himself with the divine name, revealing God’s presence in this world. When Jesus said “I AM,” the crowd fell back to the ground, a response that reflected others who found themselves in God’s presence (John 18:6; cf. Dan. 10:9; Rev. 1:7).

In a moment of intense pressure and stress, Jesus once more showed His care for the disciples. After asking a second time who the soldiers were looking for, Jesus told the guards to allow His followers to go their way (John 18:7, 8). Unfortunately, His actions were lost on Peter, who still didn’t understand Jesus’ unique kingdom and was determined to fight. Peter was willing to take on hundreds of men to save Jesus. His devotion is admirable, but his zeal was gravely misguided. Jesus was committed to receiving the cup from His Father (18:11).

Jesus’ final hour drew nearer, and with His official arrest, He took the cup of suffering. The narrative picks up speed and intensity as Jesus approached His death. Despite Christ’s submission, Peter continued to resist Jesus’ warning. As Jesus was bound and led to His trial, Peter’s denial of Christ reached new levels.

#### Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 18. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why did Jesus seek to shield the disciples but not shield Himself? (John 18:8.)`

`Like Peter, how often are we stubborn in our attempts to correct Providence when submission might be the wiser path?`