---
title: Before the Priests
date: 09/12/2024
---

#### inTerpret

After the officers arrested Jesus, they took Him to Annas, who was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, that year’s high priest (John 18:13). Annas had previously served as high priest, but because he no longer held that office, he had no legal standing in the proceedings. His role was to question Jesus before sending Him on to Caiaphas. After linking the two men, John reminded the reader of Caiaphas’ proclamation that Christ should die for the nation’s good (v. 14). These unofficial proceedings began with a predetermined outcome since the leaders had already decided to put Jesus to death (11:47–53). The irony is thick as we recall Caiaphas’ words. Caiaphas, who held the highest position of religious authority in the land, unwittingly described Jesus’ mission without comprehending or believing in that mission (18:14).

As Jesus was taken into the courtyard, two of His disciples followed close behind. Apparently, those within Annas’ household knew John, either through his family or his prominence as a disciple. John requested that Peter be granted entrance, and both men went in (vv. 15, 16). While Jesus responded to His accusers, Peter warmed himself by the fire with the crowd. The servant girl who kept the door wondered if Peter was a disciple and questioned him. Peter’s words, “I am not” (v. 17), directly contrast Jesus’ statement, “I am” (vv. 5, 8). Jesus unhesitatingly admitted who He is, knowing where it would lead. In contrast, Peter refused to state that he was a disciple. He stood among the servants and officers who arrested Jesus, playing the part of those who opposed Christ. Peter stood with the crowd just as Judas did (vv. 5, 17, 18). Only a few hours earlier, Peter was ready to die with Christ, but here he joined His enemies when faced with a simple question. John didn’t reference Jesus’ predictions of Peter’s denial, instead allowing the reader to think about the significance of the moment. Peter then disappeared from the narrative, as Judas had.

Annas questioned Jesus further about His doctrine and His disciples. Jesus stated that all His teachings were done in the open and with transparency. Despite being physically assaulted, Jesus refused to revise His position (vv. 19–24).

Jesus’ trial was illegal by several Jewish laws. Trials were never to be held on holy days, and this one was held during Passover (v. 28). Moreover, trials were only to be conducted during the day, and this took place at night (Matt. 26:34). The entire questioning by Annas, who had no authority, and the striking of Jesus were also clear violations of the law. In addition, the setting before a small group of authorities was illegal; the entire Sanhedrin (the highest governing body of Jewish elders), was to be present. The prisoner’s own words were supposed to be insufficient for an accusation; at least two other witnesses had to be called. Importantly, the suspect was to be presumed innocent. All these safeguards for the accused, which were stipulated by Jewish law, were disregarded. In this case, the authorities had already decided that Jesus had to die—even when faced with Nicodemus’ call for true justice (7:51)—and therefore had no qualms with running an egregiously illegal trial.

#### Journal:

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks seem to point to overall?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How did Jesus respond to the injustice He suffered?`