---
title: Before Pilate
date: 11/12/2024
---

#### inVite

Jesus’ transfer to Pilate marks a significant transition in the story (John 18:28). Jesus was in the hands of the Roman government. The story focuses on Pilate’s movements, presenting seven distinct scenes alternating between inside and outside the Praetorium (18:29–32; 18:33–38a; 38b–40; 19:1–3; 19:4–7; 19:8–11; 19:12–16). The religious leaders refused to enter Pilate’s headquarters so they could remain ceremonially clean and partake in Passover (v. 28). As the trial unfolded, however, the separation between clean and unclean diminished until all united to condemn Jesus. Let’s examine the first three scenes.

The first revolves around the accusation against Jesus. Pilate’s question (v. 29) was a request for a formal charge. Hoping that Pilate would simply agree to their demands, the leaders insulted Christ but refused to specify a crime (v. 30). As Pilate deferred back to their customs, they revealed their premeditated determination that Jesus had to die (v. 31). Old Testament Jewish law allowed the people to stone someone for blasphemy (Lev. 24:16), but they did not have the national independence to execute somebody without Rome’s approval. Moreover, they were determined to secure a crucifixion, which would hang Jesus on a tree and place Him under the direct curse of God (Deut. 21:22, 23; Gal. 3:13).

In the second scene, Pilate left the accusers and reentered the palace to question Jesus (John 18:33). Pilate’s initial question was full of deeper meaning. This question, “Are You the King of the Jews?” is included in all four Gospels (Matt. 27:11; Mark 15:2; Luke 23:3; John 18:33). The charge threatened the empire, which would naturally threaten Pilate’s position. The passage juxtaposes Caesar and Christ. In all four Gospels, the word “you” in this question is used emphatically, as if to ask incredulously, “Are You the King of the Jews?” To Pilate, it was ludicrous to think that this humble Galilean was a king. Jesus’ response (John 18:36) reveals the essence of the question to be, “Are You a political king, or are You the Messianic King?”

The nature of Christ’s kingdom has been misunderstood throughout the Gospel of John (6:14, 15). Christ’s kingdom belongs in the realm of theology, not politics. He transformed the meaning of kingship and power (18:36, 37). The currency of this kingdom is truth. Having read this far in the Gospel, we understand that Jesus is the truth (14:6), and that His followers belong to the truth (18:37). We know that they listen to His voice in order to follow Him (10:4, 16). Pilate, however, seemed uninterested in this nonpolitical kingdom.

The third scene shows Pilate back outside the Praetorium engaging with the crowd that was clamoring for Jesus’ death (18:38b). Pilate reported he found Jesus to be innocent but would acquiesce to the custom of releasing a prisoner at Passover (vv. 38, 39). He presented the Jews with a choice: Jesus, the King of the Jews, or Barabbas, the robber and insurrectionist. The word used to define Barabbas is also used in John 10:1, 8. It refers to someone who damages the sheep. Given a choice between the Good Shepherd and one who harms the flock, the crowd chose the latter.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 18 again and look for where Jesus is.

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What would lead the crowd to favor a despicable criminal like Barabbas over Jesus?`

`In what ways do we give in to the demands of the crowd as Pilate did?`

`Prayer Response:`