---
title:  Crossing the Red Sea
date:   02/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 12:31–36; Exodus 13:1–16; Exodus 13:17–14:12; Exodus 14:13–31; Exodus 15:1–21.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Moses answered the people. He said,

‘Don’t be afraid. Stand firm. You will see how the Lordord will save you today. Do you see those Egyptians? You will never see them again. The Lordord will fight for you. Just be still’ ” (Exodus 14:13, 14, NIrV).

The Exodus is the time when God helped the Israelites escape from slavery in Egypt. The Exodus is the most powerful experience of God’s people in the Old Testament. This experience also is the most perfect example of how God beat the enemies of His people, the Israelites, and then brought them into the Promised Land. The Exodus shows us how God saves us in Jesus, too.

The Israelites were in terrible trouble. They could not escape from slavery on their own. They needed God’s help. We also need God’s help. We can’t escape from sin. Without God’s help, we are hopeless slaves. We need something more powerful than the Exodus. We need the Cross.

Exodus 12–15 are exciting chapters. In them, we read about how Israel leaves the land of Goshen. We also read about the song of Moses. The things that happen in these chapters are amazing. We see some of God’s most powerful miracles and signs.

The Exodus can’t compare with what Jesus did for us at the cross. But the Exodus can help us understand better all the wonderful things that God did for us in Jesus.