---
title:  Go, And Worship The Lord
date:   03/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

On the night of Passover, God’s final punishment fell on the people who weren’t protected with the blood (Exodus 12:12). As we saw already, Passover was the time when God killed in one night the sons who were born first to the Egyptians and saved His people from this punishment. None of the Egyptians escaped because of their education, riches, fame, or job. God’s punishment struck all Egyptian families, from Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to Egyptians who were slaves. God also punished the animals who were born first. God destroyed the pride of the Egyptians.

`Pharaoh finally gives permission for all the Israelites to leave. What does Pharaoh ask Moses to do? Why was the thing Pharaoh asked for so strange? Read Exodus 12:31–36 for the answer.`

When Pharaoh tells the Hebrews to go and worship, he adds, “ ‘And also bless me’ ” (Exodus 12:32, ICB).

And also bless me?

Why does the king of Egypt, who is a “god” on this earth among his people, ask for Moses to bless him? Is Pharaoh finally accepting that God is all-powerful? But how can God bless Pharaoh when he is filled with pride, sin, and wants to fight against Him? Sure, Pharaoh finally gave the Hebrews permission to leave. But Pharaoh didn’t agree to let them go because he had a change of heart and finally gave his life to the Lord. Pharaoh let the Hebrews go because he felt defeated. But he wasn’t sorry for his sins, as we will later see. Pharaoh just wanted the punishments to stop destroying his kingdom.

Pharaoh felt ashamed. The worst punishment killed all the sons of Egypt who were born first. So, Pharaoh gives permission for Israel to leave Egypt.

“The Egyptians begged [asked] the people of Israel to hurry up and leave the country. ‘If you don’t,’ they said, ‘we’ll all die!’ ” (Exodus 12:33, NIrV).

In the meantime, God made sure that the Israelites didn’t leave Egypt empty-handed. The Egyptians gave the Hebrews the things they needed because they wanted to get rid of God’s people. But the things the Egyptians gave the Israelites were really a paycheck for hundreds of years of work that God’s people did for free as slaves.