---
title:  The Sons Born First Belong To God
date:   04/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God promised to save the Israelites. So, His people needed to be ready. They must believe God would save them. They also needed to act on their beliefs. God told them what they needed to do. With faith, they now needed to do it. James’s words about faith and actions fit very well here: if faith “doesn’t cause us to do something, it’s dead” (James 2:17, NIrV; also read verses 18–20).

`God saved the Israelite sons who were born first and did not kill them during the final punishment. Read the command in Exodus 13:1–16. Why did God give His people this command? What should this command mean to us today?`

God in His mercy protected the Israelite families who were under the blood. With faith, these families marked their doorframes. Now God gave Moses new information about what He wanted His people to do: “ ‘You must give me every male in Israel who is his mother’s first child’ ” (Exodus 13:2, ERV). This law was for both people and animals.

Everything belongs to God because He made us. So, God owns everything: “The earth and everything on it belong to the Lordord. The world [planet] and all its people belong to him” (Psalm 24:1, ERV). “ ‘The silver is mine, and the gold is mine,’ says the Lord of heaven’s armies” (Haggai 2:8, ICB). The Israelites’ sons who were born first were the first blessing that God gave to His people. These sons were a symbol that the Israelites gave their hearts and lives fully to God. These sons also were a sign that the people understood that everything they owned came from God.

In this special command about the sons who were born first, we also see the idea of God’s saving mercy. God saved the Israelites’ sons who were born first because they were protected with the blood. So, God saved them from death. In the same way, God will save everyone who is under the blood of Jesus. As Paul writes about Jesus, “The Son paid the price to make us free. In him we have forgiveness of our sins” (Colossians 1:14, ERV).

In the meantime, God gave Moses rules about how the sons should be offered to Him. This offering was part of Israel’s celebration. They celebrated how God saved them from slavery. The people must kill the animals, but God in His mercy saved their sons (Exodus 13:12, 13, 15).