---
title:  Crossing The Red Sea
date:   05/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story in Exodus 13:17–14:12. How did God lead the Israelites when they left Egypt? What happened next?`

God told Moses what He wanted the people to do before they left Egypt. So, when the Israelites finally left, they looked the same as an army (Exodus 6:26; Exodus 7:4; Exodus 12:17, 41, 51; Exodus 14:19, 20; compare with Exodus 13:18). Moses divided the Israelites into groups. Then the Israelites marched the same as an army. Later, when Balaam stood on the hills of Moab, he “saw the Israelites camped in their tribes [family groups]” (Numbers 24:2, ICB).

Moses also took the bones of Joseph with him (Exodus 13:19). This information is very important because it shows us Joseph’s faith in God’s promises. Yes, Joseph lived in Egypt with all of its riches. But Joseph never stopped believing God’s promises. Joseph believed that the Lord would remember Israel and lead them to the Promised Land. So, Joseph told the Israelites to carry his bones to Canaan when they left Egypt. When Israel arrived in Canaan, Joseph’s bones were buried at Shechem (Joshua 24:32).

God was with His people in a tall cloud during the day and in a cloud of fire at night. The Israelites could see the tall cloud during the day and the cloud of fire at night and know that God was with them. The Lord lived in the tall cloud and the cloud of fire. He talked with His people from the tall cloud (Exodus 14:24; Numbers 12:5, 6).

In the meantime, Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, shows what is really in his heart. He has not changed. He isn’t sorry for his sins. Pharaoh and his army go after their escaped slaves. Pharaoh could not see his own sin.

When the Israelites saw Pharaoh’s army coming, they  blamed Moses for trying to kill them. “They said to Moses, ‘What have you done to us? Why did you bring us out of Egypt to die in the desert? There were plenty of graves for us in Egypt’ ” (Exodus 14:11, ICB). The people saw God do many miracles for them. God saved their sons who were born first. God saved them when He punished the Egyptians with death. But the Israelites continued not to trust God.

`When was the last time you were in deep trouble? Did you trust in God? Or did you doubt Him? What lessons did you learn from that time that can help you the next time trouble comes? (And it will come.)`