---
title:  Marching Forward With Faith
date:   06/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 14:13–31. The Israelites didn’t have much faith in God. What did God do for His people anyway?`

Moses trusted God and His promises. So, Moses encouraged the people to trust Him, too. Moses tells the people to do four things. These four things are important lessons for us to remember during hard times:

1. **“ ‘Don’t be afraid!’ ” (Exodus 14:13, ERV).** We must trust the Lord because our trust in Him is the only way we can stop being afraid. Isaiah tells us this same thing. God will act for us when we accept Him as our God and Lord (Isaiah 41:10, 13).
2. **“ ‘Stand still’ ” (Exodus 14:13, ICB).** While “stand still” means that you stop complaining and expect God to do wonderful things for you, the words also mean something much more. “Stand still” also means we must trust in God and be patient. We must wait for Him to help us, because He will act.
3. **“ ‘Watch the Lordord save you today’ ” (Exodus 14:13, ERV).** Our faith must grow. To help it grow, we must accept God’s leadership and His help. We also must be thankful for His promise of help. To “watch” means to have faith (when we don’t believe, we are “blind.”) Only God can help us win. Only He can keep us safe and save us. God always is for us. He cares and gives us what we need at the right time.
4. **Know that “ ‘the Lord will fight for you’ ” (Exodus 14:14, ICB).** This verse tells us what God will do. He will personally fight for His people. Later, the Egyptians saw this Bible truth when the Lord fought against them for His people (Exodus 14:25). The cross at Calvary also shows us that God will fight for us. On the cross, Jesus won the fight against Satan so that He could give us everlasting life (John 5:24; Hebrews 2:14; Revelation 12:10, 11).

God commanded Moses to go forward. God showed Israel His battle plan: (1) The cloud moved behind the people to protect them. (2) Moses stretched His hand over the sea. (3) The Lord separated the water and dried it up with a strong wind. (4) The Israelites walked across the dry ground to the other side. (5) The Egyptians chased them and drowned. They didn’t understand that God was doing big things for His people until it was too late (Exodus 14:25).