---
title:  The Song Of Moses And Miriam
date:   07/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God destroyed the whole Egyptian army. No one was left alive, including Pharaoh, king of Egypt (read Psalm 136:15). The Egyptians lost the fight completely. God’s people won completely. No wonder the Jews tell this story to this day.

`What is Moses’ song about? Read Exodus 15:1–21 for the answer.`

This song praises the Lord because He is a mighty warrior. The Lord destroyed the Egyptians because they fought against His people. Moses says that the Lord, his God, is also his strength and song. The Lord saves him. No one is as powerful or wonderful as God. Moses sings, “ ‘You are majestic and holy. Your glory fills me with wonder. You do amazing things’ ” (Exodus 15:11, NIrV).

Moses’ song is all about God. Moses sings about who God is and what He does. Moses praises God for saving His people. When God is good to us, we want to worship and thank Him. When we are thankful for God’s love, we will have a strong spiritual life. Moses sings about God’s love because God will lead the people He saved. God will guide them to the place where He will live with them. Moses says that God will build His temple on His own mountain (Exodus 15:17). In the future, God will command the Israelites to build His temple in Jerusalem.

In Revelation 15:2–4, the saved people sing the song of Moses and the song of Jesus, the Lamb. Can you imagine in your mind how beautiful this song will be in heaven?! God’s people will praise God for the wonderful and mighty things He did for them. We will praise God for His fair actions. We will praise Him for His holy acts and His holy life.

Notice the last line of the song: “ ‘All people will come and worship before you, because it is clear that you do what is right’ ” (Revelation 15:4, ERV). At that time, everyone will see and understand everything that God did to judge and punish evil on this earth. Then all people will praise God for His work as Judge.

`Thinker Immanuel Kant said that if God is fair, then there must be a heaven or afterlife. Why is this idea so true? How can we learn to trust that God will punish all the evil on this earth? How does this idea give you hope?`