---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   08/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Exodus,” pages 281–290, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

God chose a route to the Promised Land that would cause less trouble for His people along the way. “The Israelites didn’t know much about God. They had very little faith in Him. They so easily became afraid and lost hope. They didn’t have weapons and didn’t know how to fight. Their hearts were very sad from long years of slavery. The Israelites had women and children, flocks, and herds to take care of. So, the Lord led them along the Red Sea route to show His people that He was both loving and wise.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 282, adapted.

The Andrews Bible Commentary talks about the Song of Moses: “God saved His people. This saving act teaches us that we don’t need to be afraid about the future. The last part of the Song of Moses talks about the future enemies of Israel. Israel would fight them to win the land of Canaan. God would fight for His people and cause their enemies to be filled with fear (Exodus 15:16). When we feel afraid and don’t know what to do, we can remember ‘The Song of Moses.’ This song fills us with hope because it helps us remember a powerful time when God saved His people.”—Andrews Bible Commentary, “Exodus” (Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press, 2020), page 214, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`We have much proof of God’s love and power. So, why do we continue to show so little faith in Him during hard times?`

`Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, chased the Israelites after they left Egypt. Why would Pharaoh go after them after everything bad that happened to Egypt? What should Pharaoh’s stubborn heart tell us about the danger we will be in if we let sin make our hearts hard? 3	For sure, we all have hard times. At the same time, many of us have very good days. We have some very good times when nothing bad happens to us or to our loved ones. Why should we see these times as proof of God’s mercy and protection? Why should we always remember to praise God in the good times, because we don’t know what bad things God is saving us from?`