---
title:  Uncovered
date:   05/04/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Genesis 3:16–24

**Uncovered**

I will never forget the moment I realized some students are capable of really crazy things. My second year in college, I had a great job as a resident assistant (RA), with about twenty-four freshman guys under my care. The bunch was generally pretty good, but as in any group, there were a few mischievous ones, which I got a close-up view of one Friday afternoon!

I had gone to the laundry room to wash my clothes, like I had many times before. I carefully separated my whites from the colors, applied the detergent, fabric softener, and bleach like my parents had taught me. After washing everything, I placed my items in the dryer and left the laundry room to get some things done before Sabbath. When I returned to retrieve my clothes, what I saw left me reeling. All my clothes were gone—even my underwear. Seriously, who steals underwear? I have never felt more uncovered than I did at that moment, and I was fully clothed.

Later that evening, at Friday night worship, I saw a freshman guy wearing one of my prized shirts. I knew it was mine because no one else on campus had a shirt like it. When I confronted him, he claimed it was his, that he had brought it from home. I decided to let it go for the moment, but I had uncovered a big clue as to who the thief was. Later that evening, I went to the RA on his wing, and together we checked his room. All my clothing was neatly folded and tucked away in his dresser drawers—including my underwear!

As I reflect on that experience from many years ago, I cannot help contemplating the lengths to which we human beings will go to cover ourselves. After falling into sin, Adam and Eve fashioned fig-leaf garments to cover their nakedness (Gen. 3:7), but God was not pleased by their attire. He made clothing of animal skin for them (v. 21), covering their bodies and their sins. This magnificent act of God’s grace is the first time we see an altar of sacrifice in Scripture.

### inScribe

Write out Genesis 3:16–24 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 21. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline it, or mind-map the chapter.

` `