---
title:  Skin for Sin
date:   06/04/2025
---

### inGest

Adam and Eve’s sin fractured their relationship with God and robbed them of their innocence and peace of mind. An immediate sense of shame overwhelmed them, and they hid themselves from God (Gen. 3:8). Sin also added the reality of death into what had hitherto been a death-free environment. God had warned Adam and Eve that if they ate from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, they would surely die, but that idea was largely theoretical to them. They had no experiential knowledge of sin and its consequences. Unfortunately, they learned rather quickly just how painful sin and death are.

Genesis 3:16–24 describes the punishments Adam and Eve would suffer as a result of their disobedience. Life would be difficult and painful. Eventually, they were destined to return to the ground in death. The first humans would lose their home, their face-to-face communion with God, and their access to the tree of life (vv. 22–24). What a cascade of suffering for the momentary pleasures of sin!

Amid these devastating pronouncements, God offered Adam and Eve tremendous hope in Genesis 3:21. He made tunics of skin for them and clothed them. Notice, God had countless materials from which to fashion coverings for the naked, sinful pair, but He chose the skin of animals. The garments of skin that God made required the death of an animal. Leviticus 17:11 helps us understand why this death was necessary: “For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you upon the altar to make atonement for your souls; for it is the blood that makes atonement for the soul.” Without the shedding of blood, sin cannot be removed (Heb. 9:22). God was not covering just their nakedness; He was covering their sinfulness, too.

In Eden, God introduced the first altar on which animals would be sacrificed to make atonement for sin. This idea of substitutionary atonement later became the cornerstone of the Jewish sacrificial system. Eden’s altar, which produced Adam’s and Eve’s coverings, foreshadowed Jesus’ death on the altar of the cross—a sacrifice that gave each of us Christ’s robe of righteousness. Jesus, the Lamb of God (John 1:29), paid the price for humanity’s sin (Matt. 20:28), but not simply so our sins would be covered; Jesus’ sacrifice removed our sins altogether. This is why Jesus’ death is the ultimate sacrifice that supersedes all others (Heb. 9:23–25).

Altars are places of love, worship, sacrifice, commitment, and devotion—all of which God demonstrated in copious measure in Eden. What sin took from Adam and Eve, God, at Eden’s altar, promised to restore.

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from Genesis 3:16–24. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why did God choose the death of an innocent animal to atone for the sins of guilty human beings?`

`What’s the connection between sacrifice and love? Explain.`