---
title:  Time, Thought, and Action
date:   07/04/2025
---

### inTerpret

The Bible references altars over four hundred times. The first explicit mention of an altar comes in Genesis 8:20, when “Noah built an altar to the LORD, and took of every clean animal and of every clean bird, and offered burnt offerings on the altar.” This act of worship was Noah’s response to God’s magnificent deliverance from the Flood.

In contrast to most of the Old Testament altars, the altar in the Eden story is secondary; the focus is on the urgently needed skin coverings (Gen. 3:21). These skins provide undeniable evidence of an animal’s death on the humans’ behalf. In the rest of the Old Testament, altars are where a substitutionary death happens on behalf of the sinner. The symbol of a “Lamb slain” on sinners’ behalf can therefore be traced back directly to “the foundation of the world” in the story of Eden (Rev. 13:8). This is significant! God’s act of covering Adam and Eve’s sin required time, careful thought, and action. Ellen White wrote:
But known unto God are all His works, and from eternal ages the covenant of grace (unmerited favor) existed in the mind of God. It is called the everlasting covenant; for the plan of salvation was not conceived after the fall of man, but it was that which was “kept in silence through times eternal, but now is manifested, and by the Scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God, is made known unto all the nations unto obedience of faith.” Romans 16:25, 26, A.R.V. (Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, [December 15, 1914], par. 2)

God could have destroyed Adam, Eve, the earth, and every living thing. Instead, He planned an intervention on fallen humanity’s behalf before the world was even created (Eph. 1:4–6). The altar in Eden was no afterthought. God’s sacrifice of time, thought, and action for the reconciliation of fallen human beings is a poignant demonstration of His love, commitment, and devotion to His creations. An altar is a place to reciprocate the incredible love God has shown us. When we take time to think through our devotion to God and make plans to meet with Him, we assemble an altar that exemplifies the best of who He is.

What an action God took! He, the Author of life itself, took the first life ever shed on earth. We can be certain it broke His heart. At the altar in Eden, God paid a high price to reconcile lost human beings to Himself, and that was only the beginning of His sacrificial love for us. The sacrifice in Eden was only a faint shadow of the true and full sacrifice that would be made by Jesus on the cross.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`God planned your salvation long before you were born. How does that knowledge impact you?`