---
title:  Watch Me Work
date:   09/04/2025
---

### inVite

One day, I spotted my 15-year-old son’s dirty sneakers by the front door of our home.

Calling to him, I said, “DJ, your shoes look pretty bad.”

He nodded in agreement with a look that seemed to say, “I have no idea what to do about it.”

That was my cue to launch my plan of redemption. “Let’s clean these things, and they’ll be new again,” I said.He brightened but questioned how we would do it.

I grabbed some liquid soap and a scrub brush, and we headed for the sink. I commenced scrubbing like my life depended on it. I had learned how to clean tennis shoes from my dad and older brothers, and I was determined to pass this skill to my son. His way of dealing with dirty shoes was to buy new ones. I needed to correct that notion and show him a much cheaper option.

After I finished, I gave him the other shoe to clean, and with some coaching and serious effort, the previously dirty pair of shoes looked amazing. Though my son may not have known it at the time, I was doing much more than just cleaning shoes; I was giving him an example to follow.

Rarely does God do anything for human beings that does not serve as an example for us to follow. I believe this was also the case at the altar in Eden. God’s love, devotion, and commitment to humanity’s salvation compelled Him to do painful things to atone for Adam and Eve’s sin. What has your love, devotion, and commitment to God cost you? To cover Adam and Eve, God had to slay an innocent animal—perhaps more than one. We often go about life rarely sacrificing anything for God, and what we do “sacrifice” sometimes costs us nothing. King David understood this principle and refused to bring God a sacrifice that cost him nothing (1 Chron. 21:24).

What show are you willing to give up for God? What attitude or opinion are you willing to change to obey God? What friendship needs to end to draw nearer to God? What social media app do you need to delete to make time for God? Altars are places of sacrifice. Something has to die if we wish to live in close communion with God.

### Journal

`Meditate on Genesis 3:16–24 again and look for Jesus.`

`What do you think Jesus was thinking as the Godhead made the first sacrifice for sin on Eden’s altar?`

`How did you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`