---
title:  “Lift Up Your Heads, Redemption Draweth Nigh”
date:  26/01/2019
---

**Introduction**: Deut. 32:43; Matt. 24:3–14; Heb. 12:1, 2

I have never run a marathon, and the thought of it is daunting. Were I to attempt a marathon today, I am almost certain that I would be unable to finish the 26.2 miles. I can almost hear my legs and muscles screaming, “We didn’t train for this!” or “How much longer?” Yet I have confidence that with training and preparation, running a marathon is a goal that I could someday accomplish. Avid runners are well aware of the training and dedication that goes into preparing for a marathon. And just as runners need to prepare physically and mentally for marathons, Christians need to train and prepare daily in order to finish the spiritual race.

Runners may face dehydration, pain, exhaustion, and changes in body temperature, particularly near the end of the race. Likewise, in our spiritual race, we too may face periods of pain and exhaustion and may draw courage from the fact that the race will soon end. There have been “wars and rumors of wars”; “nation[s] [have risen] against nation[s], and kingdom against kingdom”; and there are “famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes in various places” (Matt. 24:6, 7, NKJV). Jesus also tells us that we will be hated and possibly killed for His name’s sake (Matt. 24:9). These signs give us hope that Jesus is soon to return. Like a marathon, our spiritual race and nearing the end can be scary, difficult, and painful. But Jesus tells us to “rejoice, you nations, with his people, for he will avenge the blood of his servants; he will take vengeance on his enemies and make atonement for his land and people” (Deut. 32:43, NIV).

As the world’s history comes to an end, let us hold fast to the promises of Jesus, our Conqueror, Redeemer, and Friend. As we wait, “let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith” (Heb. 12:1, 2, NKJV). As the song goes:

Signs of the times are everywhere.
There’s a brand new feeling in the air.
Keep your eyes upon the eastern sky,
Lift up your heads, redemption draweth nigh!1

**React**

`What strategies do you use when you feel nervous or anxious? Could these help when you feel worried or scared about the end times?`

---

<sup>1. Gordon Jensen, “Redemption Draweth Nigh,” copyright © 1970 by Silverline Music, Inc. Assigned to Goldline Music, Inc., 1971.</sup>

_Michelle Gordon, Glenside, Pennsylvania, USA_