---
title:  The Slain Lamb of End Times
date:  28/01/2019
---

**Testimony**: Rev. 6:1–8; Lev. 26:21–26; Matt. 24:1–14

John responded with a great sobbing when he realized there was no one worthy of opening and reading the scroll. Consider how different our view of life would be had the scroll not been opened to unveil prophecy of the future.

John looked in the middle of the throne where the elders stood, and a Lamb that was slain took the scroll. The Lamb represents Jesus, who came to take away our sins (John 1:29). Says the revelator, “Now I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals; and I heard one of the four living creatures saying with a voice like thunder, ‘Come and see.’ And I looked, and behold, a white horse. He who sat on it had a bow; and a crown was given to him, and he went out conquering and to conquer” (Rev. 6:1, 2, NKJV). The whiteness of the horse demonstrates the purity of faith during the first centuries of the church. The crown given to the rider, going forth and conquering with eagerness and success with truth, represents what the earliest ministers experienced. The rider upon the horse took the gospel to all the world.1

Jesus foretold that there would be “wars and rumors of wars” and “earthquakes in various places,” and that “all these are the beginning of sorrows.” The whole world will be reached with the gospel, “and then the end will come” (Matt. 24:6–14). “In this age, just prior to the second coming of Christ in the clouds of heaven, such a work as that of John [the Baptist] is to be done. God calls for men who will prepare a people to stand in the great day of the Lord. . . .

“In order to give such a message as John gave, we must have a spiritual experience like his. The same work must be wrought in us. We must behold God, and in beholding Him lose sight of self.” 2

**React**

`1. Why was John distraught about no one being able, initially, to open the scrolls?`

`2. What happens when you knowingly walk contrary to God?`

`3. What signs will occur as the end draws near?`

---

<sup>1. Uriah Smith, Daniel and the Revelation (Nashville, TN: Southern Publishing Association, 1897), p. 432.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 8, pp. 332, 333.</sup>

_Rochelle Amos, Willow Grove, Pennsylvania, USA_