---
title:  We Already Know How This Story Ends
date:  29/01/2019
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 6:1–8

When John wrote Revelation, it was a tumultuous time for the early church as Rome was beginning to demand that citizens worship the emperor. Disobedience to this new rule led to John being exiled on the island of Patmos, where he received the visions we read about today (Rev. 1:9). These revelations were a message that may have seemed like a mystical tale of fiction to some reading at the time. In fact today, movies, television shows, and books have been made about the apocalypse, glorifying destruction, death, and chaos. But is that what the book of Revelation is truly about?

In modern English the word apocalypse has come to mean “the complete destruction of the world.” However, the word apocalypse means something else; from Greek, apocalypse translates to “uncover” or “reveal.” While we often read this text in the context of preparation for the future final days, the four horsemen of the Apocalypse also provide us with a glimpse of God’s character to help us keep the faith as the end draws near.

Revelation 6 discusses the six seals, sharing the events of the end days. Although we often focus on the events of each seal, there is a crucial piece of evidence in the very first line. Revelation 6:1 opens with “As I watched, the Lamb broke the first of the seven seals on the scroll” (NLT). Before we even get to the descriptions of horsemen and the deception, war, famine, and pestilence they bring, we see another character, the Individual who breaks the seals, who allows all of the impending action to happen. That person is the Lamb, Jesus Christ.

Reading about the end times can often feel confusing. However, we should not be overwhelmed but encouraged that Jesus will soon return. We should never forget that there is an ongoing spiritual battle that we cannot see (Eph. 6:12). While the four horsemen of the Apocalypse give us a glimpse of the end, we can be comforted in knowing that the final battle has already been won.

**React**

`1. Color symbolism is often used in the Bible to deepen our understanding (cf. Ps. 51:7; Isa. 1:18; Jer. 14:2; Dan. 11:35; Matt. 17:2). How does the use of color deepen our understanding of Revelation 6:1–8?`

`2. List the symbols in today’s passage. Where else in the Bible are these symbols and images used? Using this context, think about why each specific symbol was used. What does its inclusion teach us about God’s character?`

---

_Krissy Wint, Doylestown, Pennsylvania, USA_