---
title:  Reality Is Better
date:  30/01/2019
---

**How-to**: Rev. 6:12

Hollywood has been known to take artistic license when telling Bible stories, rendering them without respect to the greater context of salvation. Chapter six of Revelation in particular has suffered from this unfortunate reinterpretation. You could imagine what most people would say if you asked them what they thought the four horsemen of the Apocalypse represented. Perhaps that they bring destruction and ruin so that a shadowy figure can take over the world. But we know better than to give our own private interpretations. Here are a few lessons that we can take from the biblical understanding of the four horsemen and the rest of the seals.

Peace. Rather than being influenced by the world’s anxiety-ridden interpretations of Scripture, we can rejoice and have peace. Instead of villainous henchmen, the horsemen of Revelation 6:1–8 represent the goodness of the gospel being proclaimed. God is not in the business of fearmongering. Each seal opened is an invitation. The Lamb’s scroll, the living will of Jesus, reveals Christ’s inheritance, His people, a restored body that He calls us to be a part of. We can have peace knowing that we are in the body of Christ. Courage. The horsemen represent the diverse conditions under which the gospel is going forward, be it during times of prosperity and rapid multiplication or times of persecution, famine, and threat of death. We can know that God will be with those who faithfully spread the gospel regardless of the circumstances. Hope. Just like the servants of God in verses 9 and 10, we too may wonder how long until God intervenes, but we don’t have to lose hope. We can know that God delays His coming because somewhere out there is another soul who would say yes to the salvation that Jesus brings, if only His people would present it to them. God knows there are more out there waiting for us to tell them about Jesus. Let us bring them hope and strengthen our own in the process.

As we approach the final movements of this world’s history in the sixth seal, we must hold on to the faith that Jesus gives. Even when there is “a great shaking” and some of the stars of heaven—those in the church—fall away, we can still know God stands with us.

**React**

`1. Have you ever met someone who was frightened by the prophetic language of the Bible? What would you say to them now?`

`2. How does the gospel personally bring you peace, courage, and hope?`

---

_Andrew Carroll, Allentown, Pennsylvania, USA_