---
title:  The Lion and the Lamb
date:  31/01/2019
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 5:1–10

In Christian circles, we often focus on the fact that Jesus conquered the grave in His capacity as the Son of God. We talk about the power of God being the only means by which Jesus could have resurrected from the grave. That, of course, is not an erroneous point of view. None but God could defy the laws of death. However, there is a tenet of the resurrection story that we do not linger on enough—the scars of Christ and their implications.

In Revelation 5, John talks about being distressed because no one could open the book with seven seals. As he is weeping, one of the elders comes and comforts him by letting him know that there is, indeed, Someone worthy to open the book. In this passage, Jesus is described as the Lion of the tribe of Judah and the Lamb that was slain. At first it seems as if the apostle is insinuating that Jesus’ victory and credibility come as the Lion of Judah. However, when reading verses 9 and 10, Jesus’ authority to open the book is as the Lamb that was slain. In other words, Jesus won with His scars.

Jesus is worthy to open the book because He was “ ‘slain, and purchased for God with [His] blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation’ ” (Rev. 5:9, NASB). Jesus’ credibility is a result of His vulnerability. The power of God was needed to raise Jesus from the dead; however, we are drawn to Christ because this power climaxed in vulnerability. Through His death, He embodied what He taught His disciples to do—“ ‘You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them. . . . It is not this way among you, but whoever wishes to becomes great among you shall be your servant’ ” (Matt. 20:25, 26, NASB).

Our hearts are not drawn to Christ because He was perfect; our hearts are drawn to Him because He made Himself vulnerable. No one wants a perfect friend who cannot offer an ounce of vulnerability. Thus, the Lamb that was slain rose with His scars as part of His victory. Jesus teaches us sympathy and empathy. Our best witness is our testimony. People are not enticed by our rhetoric until they know that we have walked where they are now walking. Our scars are not a source of shame; as with the Redeemer of humanity, our scars prove us worthy.

**React**

`What kind of encouragement have the scars of Christ provided in your walk with Him?`

---

_Manushka Gracia-Desgage, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, USA_