---
title:  “The Seals Are Now Open”
date:  01/02/2019
---

**Exploration**: Matt. 24:14

**Conclude**

In Revelation 6, Jesus opens the six seals and takes us on a journey of the spread of the gospel and its reception. Seal one takes us back to when the gospel was being preached in its purest form and how the gospel spread to almost the entire world during the time of the apostle Paul. Seals two to five show how the gospel took a dark turn to governments persecuting and killing people because of the gospel, to the church taking the place of the government and killing and persecuting people in the name of the gospel, the gospel being tainted by paganism and commercialism and highlighting the martyrs who died for the gospel. Seal six brings us to the final chapters of earth’s history, when signs and wonders point to the second coming of Jesus Christ. All six seals have been broken; are we ready to meet Jesus, the One who was found worthy to open them?

**Consider**

- Listening to Joe Crews’s sermon on the seven seals (https://www.amazingfacts.org/media-library/media/e/718/f/6/t/seven-seals---part-1).

- Making a chart highlighting the seven seals and the events in history that relate to each seal.

- Discussing with your Sabbath School class the following questions: How has the gospel become commercialized and watered down? What pagan or heathen practices have been introduced into the gospel in the twenty-first century? What can we do to ensure that we are preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ and nothing else?

- Writing the quote, “If a man has not discovered something that he will die for, he isn’t fit to live,” by Martin Luther King Jr. on a piece of paper or Post-it note and posting it someplace where you can reflect on it before you start and/or end your day.

- Reading Foxe’s Book of Martyrs or researching a famous Christian martyr.

- Taking some time out of your daily prayer to pray for those who still have not heard the gospel or who have not accepted Christ as their Savior and asking God how He can use you to spread the gospel.

**Connect**

Joel 2:30, 31; Matthew 24.

Uriah Smith, Daniel and the Revelation, chap. 6 of The Prophecies of the Revelation, “The Seven Seals.”

---

_Sara Horatius, Boston, Massachusetts, USA_