src/en/2019-02-er/01/01.md, before:

---
title: 'There Is A Right Time For Everything'
date: 30/03/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Genesis 1:1; Ecclesiastes 3:2; Job 1:13–19; Galatians 1:15–17; Romans 15:7.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “There is a right time for everything, and everything on earth will happen at the right time” (Ecclesiastes 3:1, ERV).

**KING SOLOMON** wrote some of the most beautiful poems ever written. He writes: “There is a right time for everything, and everything on earth will happen at the right time. There is a time to be born and a time to die. There is a time to plant and a time to pull plants. There is a time to kill and a time to heal. There is a time to destroy and a time to build. There is a time to cry and a time to laugh. There is a time to be sad and a time to dance with joy. There is a time to throw weapons down and a time to pick them up. There is a time to hug someone. And a time to stop holding so tightly. There is a time to look for something. And a time to consider [accept that] it [is] lost. There is a time to keep things and a time to throw things away. There is a time to tear cloth and a time to sew it. There is a time to be silent and a time to speak. There is a time to love and a time to hate. There is a time for war and a time for peace” (Ecclesiastes 3:1–8, ERV).

Solomon’s words show us that life is about change. Yes, we experience changes in life from the time we are born. Sometimes the changes are good; sometimes bad. Sometimes we can control what happens to us; sometimes we cannot. This week we will look at the different times of our lives and how they can change us and our families.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/01/01.md, after:

---
title: 'There Is A Right Time For Everything'
date: 30/03/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Genesis 1:1; Ecclesiastes 3:2; Job 1:13–19; Galatians 1:15–17; Romans 15:7.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “There is a right time for everything, and everything on earth will happen at the right time” (Ecclesiastes 3:1, ERV).

**KING SOLOMON** wrote some of the most beautiful poems ever written. He writes: “There is a right time for everything, and everything on earth will happen at the right time. There is a time to be born and a time to die. There is a time to plant and a time to pull plants. There is a time to kill and a time to heal. There is a time to destroy and a time to build. There is a time to cry and a time to laugh. There is a time to be sad and a time to dance with joy. There is a time to throw weapons down and a time to pick them up. There is a time to hug someone. And a time to stop holding so tightly. There is a time to look for something. And a time to consider [accept that] it [is] lost. There is a time to keep things and a time to throw things away. There is a time to tear cloth and a time to sew it. There is a time to be silent and a time to speak. There is a time to love and a time to hate. There is a time for war and a time for peace” (Ecclesiastes 3:1–8, ERV).

Solomon’s words show us that life is about change. Yes, we experience changes in life from the time we are born. Sometimes the changes are good; sometimes bad. Sometimes we can control what happens to us; sometimes we cannot. This week we will look at the different times of our lives and how they can change us and our families.
