src/en/2019-02-er/01/02.md, before:

---
title: 'At First'
date: 31/03/2019
---

The Bible starts with the time when God made the earth. That is why Genesis 1:1 starts with one word in Hebrew that can be written as “at first” (Genesis 1:1, ERV) or as “in the beginning” (Genesis 1:1, NLV). Genesis 1 tells us that the earth did not “have any shape. And it was empty” (Genesis 1:2, NIrV). God worked for six days. He filled the earth with plants, animals, and the things they needed for life. On the 6th day, “God looked at everything he made. And he saw that everything was very good” (Genesis 1:31, ERV). So, Genesis shows us the beginning of our life on this earth.

`So much happens in Genesis 1! Read the chapter and ask yourself this question: Did God make everything in the right place at the right time? Or did He let anything happen by itself or by accident? How does your answer show you who God is and what is in His heart?`

Ellen G. White says that “God’s first law is making sure that everything in heaven is arranged in the right way.”—Signs of the Times, July 8, 1908, adapted. God wants everything on earth to be arranged in the right way too. Yes, sin messed up this earth in a big way. But look at the change of weather each year and the change of life. What do we see? We see proof of the way God first set up things on this earth.

`What is God’s plan in Genesis 8:22 for us on this earth? How long will God’s plan continue?`

Yes, sin changed this earth. But even so, do you see that the seasons change right on time? Summer and winter, day and night, and the different seasons are all part of life on this earth (read Genesis 1:14). God made it that way. Think about how beautiful the new heavens and earth will be! Isaiah 66:23 gives us a hint. True, the Bible gives us only a small peek now. But also there will be a right time for everything to happen on the new earth too.

`Each week God asks us to keep His Sabbath holy. How has your keeping the Sabbath each week helped change your life and your family too?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/01/02.md, after:

---
title: 'At First'
date: 31/03/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible starts with the time when God made the earth. That is why Genesis 1:1 starts with one word in Hebrew that can be written as “at first” (Genesis 1:1, ERV) or as “in the beginning” (Genesis 1:1, NLV). Genesis 1 tells us that the earth did not “have any shape. And it was empty” (Genesis 1:2, NIrV). God worked for six days. He filled the earth with plants, animals, and the things they needed for life. On the 6th day, “God looked at everything he made. And he saw that everything was very good” (Genesis 1:31, ERV). So, Genesis shows us the beginning of our life on this earth.

`So much happens in Genesis 1! Read the chapter and ask yourself this question: Did God make everything in the right place at the right time? Or did He let anything happen by itself or by accident? How does your answer show you who God is and what is in His heart?`

Ellen G. White says that “God’s first law is making sure that everything in heaven is arranged in the right way.”—Signs of the Times, July 8, 1908, adapted. God wants everything on earth to be arranged in the right way too. Yes, sin messed up this earth in a big way. But look at the change of weather each year and the change of life. What do we see? We see proof of the way God first set up things on this earth.

`What is God’s plan in Genesis 8:22 for us on this earth? How long will God’s plan continue?`

Yes, sin changed this earth. But even so, do you see that the seasons change right on time? Summer and winter, day and night, and the different seasons are all part of life on this earth (read Genesis 1:14). God made it that way. Think about how beautiful the new heavens and earth will be! Isaiah 66:23 gives us a hint. True, the Bible gives us only a small peek now. But also there will be a right time for everything to happen on the new earth too.

`Each week God asks us to keep His Sabbath holy. How has your keeping the Sabbath each week helped change your life and your family too?`
