---
title: 'A Right Time For Everything'
date: 01/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Scientists talk about something they name “body clocks.” Body clocks are a word picture for the working parts inside our bodies. These clocks help keep everything running on time. Our body clocks help us wake up and go to sleep on time. Body clocks show us that there are special times for everything to happen in life.

**The Bible talks about the special times in life, or seasons, for things to happen. What seasons are they? Write your answers on the lines below after each verse. How are these seasons of our lives connected to our families?**

`Ecclesiastes 3:2`

`Genesis 21:8; Judges 13:24`

`Psalm 71:5; Proverbs 5:18`

`Genesis 15:15; Judges 8:32`

`Psalm 90:10`

Between the time we are born and die, there are many seasons in our lives. Each person’s life experience is different. Some children live only a short time after they are born. Other babies grow up and live until they are very old. Children grow and develop in different ways. Some children start to walk before other children. Some children go to school to learn special skills for one type of job. But other children do not. Some people will have families. Other people may never marry or have children.

There are millions and millions of people on this earth. We are all alike in many ways (read Acts 17:26). Each one of us is special. So, we will be different in special ways from everyone else too.

The things that make us different are important. Why? Because each one of us has something to share with other people that they do not have. Our differences allow us to bless the lives of other people (read Proverbs 20:29). Whatever time of life we are in, we all have something to give to the Lord and to other people too.

`What can you do to be a blessing to someone else?`