---
title: 'When Something Unexpected Happens'
date: 02/04/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Job 1:13–19 and Job 2:7–9. What happened to Job in these verses? How is Job’s awful pain the same as what happens to everyone at some time in their lives?`

The Greek thinker Heraclitus said that “the one thing that does not change in life is that there always will be change.” Everything in our lives can seem wonderful. Then something happens that we do not expect. Maybe we lose our jobs. Or a leg or arm. Or maybe we get sick and die early in life. Or maybe our house burns down. Or we have a car accident. Or fall down while we walk our dog.

It is true that not all changes are bad. Maybe we get a new job that helps us earn more money. Or maybe you meet the person you will marry. These are examples of good changes that many people will be happy about.

Anyway, everything can change in one second. We see this in Job’s story.

Of course, Job did not expect the bad things that happened to him. The Bible says Job was a “good, honest man. He respected God and refused to do evil” (Job 1:1, ERV). We know that Job had a wife. He was very rich. Job had seven sons and three daughters (Job 1:2, 3). By the middle of his story, we learn Job lost six big things: his land, his workers, his kids, his health, his wife’s support, and his friends’ support too. Job’s whole life changed. His family life was broken apart.

It is true that the awful things that happened to Job do not happen to everyone. But each of us will experience something unexpected in life the same as Job. Life can be going fine. Then with no warning, everything completely changes. Our lives— and our family’s lives—may never be the same again.

Sadly, the bad things that happen in life are nothing new. Look what happened to Abel. Do you think Abel expected his own brother Cain to kill him? Or what about Joseph? Do you think Joseph expected his brothers to sell him as a slave in Egypt? In both stories, family members did awful things and caused their families a lot of pain. The Bible is filled with examples of people whose lives and families were changed in big ways by things they did not expect.

`How has your faith helped you during the bad times that came with no warning in your life?`