src/en/2019-02-er/01/05.md, before:

---
title: 'Big Changes'
date: 03/04/2019
---

Humans like to do the same things again and again. The older we get, the harder it is to change our behavior.

It may be hard for us to change. But what we cannot do for ourselves, God can do for us. He wants to change our hearts. That is what the plan of God saving us is about. He wants to make us new people!

`What big change happened to Saul of Tarsus? How did that change happen? Read Acts 8:1, 3; Acts 9:1–22; and Galatians 1:15–17 for the answer.`

“Saul gave himself fully to the Holy Spirit. Then Saul saw the mistakes he made in life. He understood that God’s law asks us to fully obey Him in everything. Saul used to be full of pride. Why? Because he thought he was a very good Pharisee. [A Pharisee was a Jewish religious leader in New Testament times. Pharisees felt that they kept the law very strictly.] As a Pharisee, Saul thought his own good behavior was good enough to save him. But now Saul bowed in prayer. Saul now had the simple heart of a child. He confessed his sins to God. Jesus died for Saul on the cross. So, Saul begged God for mercy. More than anything, Saul wanted to connect with the Father and the Son. . . .

“God heard Saul’s prayers. God’s mercy and forgiveness changed the thoughts and deepest feelings in Saul’s heart. Saul’s best thoughts and feelings connected with God’s plan for his life. Then Saul felt more love for Jesus and the cross than he felt for anything else in his life.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], pages 119, 120, adapted.

Maybe our own stories about giving our lives to Jesus are not so exciting as Saul’s. But we can tell other people the things Jesus did for us. We also can share with them what Jesus does now to change us. We can tell everyone that Jesus makes our lives better. Yes, Jesus’ work in our lives can take a long time. Sometimes it is easy to believe we cannot change. When that happens, we can find hope from two Bible verses: Philippians 1:6 and Romans 8:1.

`Read Philippians 1:6 and Romans 8:1. What two wonderful promises do we find in these verses?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/01/05.md, after:

---
title: 'Big Changes'
date: 03/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Humans like to do the same things again and again. The older we get, the harder it is to change our behavior.

It may be hard for us to change. But what we cannot do for ourselves, God can do for us. He wants to change our hearts. That is what the plan of God saving us is about. He wants to make us new people!

`What big change happened to Saul of Tarsus? How did that change happen? Read Acts 8:1, 3; Acts 9:1–22; and Galatians 1:15–17 for the answer.`

“Saul gave himself fully to the Holy Spirit. Then Saul saw the mistakes he made in life. He understood that God’s law asks us to fully obey Him in everything. Saul used to be full of pride. Why? Because he thought he was a very good Pharisee. [A Pharisee was a Jewish religious leader in New Testament times. Pharisees felt that they kept the law very strictly.] As a Pharisee, Saul thought his own good behavior was good enough to save him. But now Saul bowed in prayer. Saul now had the simple heart of a child. He confessed his sins to God. Jesus died for Saul on the cross. So, Saul begged God for mercy. More than anything, Saul wanted to connect with the Father and the Son. . . .

“God heard Saul’s prayers. God’s mercy and forgiveness changed the thoughts and deepest feelings in Saul’s heart. Saul’s best thoughts and feelings connected with God’s plan for his life. Then Saul felt more love for Jesus and the cross than he felt for anything else in his life.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], pages 119, 120, adapted.

Maybe our own stories about giving our lives to Jesus are not so exciting as Saul’s. But we can tell other people the things Jesus did for us. We also can share with them what Jesus does now to change us. We can tell everyone that Jesus makes our lives better. Yes, Jesus’ work in our lives can take a long time. Sometimes it is easy to believe we cannot change. When that happens, we can find hope from two Bible verses: Philippians 1:6 and Romans 8:1.

`Read Philippians 1:6 and Romans 8:1. What two wonderful promises do we find in these verses?`
