---
title: 'Friendships And Family'
date: 04/04/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible is a book about friendships and families. God made us to be friends with other people. Very few of us live alone. For one thing, each of us is here because of our parents. Even after we are born, we need someone to take care of us until we are old enough to take care of ourselves. Even when we are able to take care of ourselves, who really wants to live all alone? Most of us need and want the friendship of other people. Pets can be wonderful. But in the end, the deepest friendships we make are with other people, not animals. No wonder the family is so important for our lives.

Our friendships with other people can change our lives. This change works both ways. Our friendships can change our lives and our friends for the better or make them worse. So, it is very important, at all times, to do our best to be a good example to everyone.

**Read the Bible verses below. What do these verses tell us about how we should behave with other people?**

`Romans 15:7`

`Ephesians 4:2, 32`

`1 Thessalonians 3:12`

`James 5:16`

In many ways, the rule is simple. We should be nice and kind to other people. Then we can help change their lives in a good way. Jesus changed people’s lives in a good way too. Jesus made their lives better. It is wonderful to do the same thing for other people that Jesus did. Again, we must remember something important. We can make people’s lives better or worse, even in small ways. How do we do that? By the way we talk to them and how we make them feel. The people closest to us are our families. They are the ones whose lives we can touch the most. So, we need to be careful to always show our families love.

`Look at what Jesus says in Luke 11:34 and Mark 4:24, 25. What does Jesus tell us to do?`