---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 05/04/2019
---

Think about the changes that happened in the lives of Jesus’ followers as they spent time with Him. Jesus’ followers did not have much education. They were simple people. They knew only their Jewish ways of life and Jewish teachings. But now the Teacher from Galilee asked His followers to change their lives. Jesus asked them to think about their lives in new ways. Change did not come easy for them. They felt jealous (Matthew 20:20–24). Sometimes, they did not show much faith (Mark 9:28, 29). They also left Jesus all alone when He needed them the most (Matthew 26:56). They turned away from Him (Matthew 26:69–74). At the same time, good things happened too. Jesus’ followers learned from their mistakes. They grew spiritually stronger from being with Jesus. People knew that Peter had been with Jesus (Matthew 26:73). Even the Jewish religious leaders were surprised when they heard the things Peter and John had to say. “The Jewish leaders understood that Peter and John had no special training or education” (Acts 4:13, ERV). But the leaders “knew they [Peter and John] had been with Jesus” (Acts 4:13, NLV).

Just think what will happen when our family members see we have “been with Jesus” (Acts 4:13, NLV)! Then we will help change their lives in a powerful way.

What do these words from Ellen G. White tell us about how we should behave in our homes? “Your home may be plain and not fancy. But it can always be a place where everyone says loving words and does kind acts for each other. Then love will come stay in your house. Love will be the same as a guest who never leaves.”—The Adventist Home, page 18, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. What important rule does Ecclesiastes 3:1–8 teach you? How can you follow this rule in your own life?`

`2. In class talk about some of your experiences that changed your life. What lessons did you learn from them? What did you learn from the lessons that you did not know before? How did these experiences change your family’s lives?`

`3. How has Jesus made a difference in your life? What did you stop doing when you gave your life to Jesus? What are you doing now that is different than before? What do these things tell you about Jesus’ power to change human hearts?`