---
title:  Paul’s Trip to Rome
date:   22/09/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 27; Acts 28; Romans 1:18–20.  

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘ “Do not be afraid, Paul. You must go on trial in front of Caesar” ’ ” (Acts 27:24, NIrV).

FOR A LONG TIME, PAUL wants to visit Rome. But his arrest in Jerusalem changes all his plans. The Romans leave Paul in prison for almost five years. Why is Paul in prison for so long? Because Paul does what the church leaders want. They want Paul to make the Jewish believers happy more than they want Paul to make God happy. So, Paul puts the Jews first. Later, the Romans arrest Paul. When we fail God, God may give us another chance. But God does not always stop bad things from happening to us when we do wrong. 

As a prisoner, Paul travels by ship to Italy. But Jesus promises Paul that he will tell people in Rome about Him (Acts 23:11). Later, we learn that Paul hopes to go to Spain (Romans 15:24) after the Romans let him go free. But the Bible does not say Paul ever travels there. Then Paul is arrested again. This time Paul dies for his faith (2 Timothy 4:6–8), in A.D. 67, when Nero is king. 

Paul arrives in Rome. He lives in his house-prison while he waits to stand trial in front of the King of Rome. Paul wears chains when he talks about Jesus to his visitors (Acts 28:30, 31). No one stops Paul from preaching. During this time, Paul gets the chance to share the Good News about Jesus with important people who work for the King of Rome (Philippians 4:22). 