---
title:  Paul Sails To Rome
date:   23/09/2018
---

Paul is a prisoner in Caesarea for two years (Acts 24:27). Then Paul goes to Rome, in Italy. The trip to Italy is long and hard (Acts 27:1–28:16). Luke travels with Paul. Another Christian named Aristarchus also goes with them (Acts 27:2). Another important person in the story is the Roman army leader named Julius. Julius is responsible for the other prisoners on that trip too (Acts 27:1).

Paul, Luke, Aristarchus, Julius, and the other prisoners leave for Rome in late summer. Wintertime was not a good time to travel on the Mediterranean Sea because of bad weather. Their trip is hard from the start. They stop traveling many times. Then they arrive at a safe place named Fair Havens on the island of Crete (Acts 27:8). 

`Read the story in Acts 27:9–12 about what happens in Fair Havens. What does Paul offer to do? How do the people in the story feel about the help that Paul offers them?`

Paul warns the sailors to stay in Fair Havens. But the sailors do not pay attention to Paul’s warning. They decide to keep going west for 40 more miles to a place named Phoenix. Here, they can stay the whole winter. But the weather changes quickly. The ship gets trapped in a very bad storm. The storm moves their ship south and then west, away from land. Soon the ship fills with water. The sailors start throwing boxes and other things into the sea. Heavy rain falls, and awful winds blow. The storm lasts many days. No one on the ship sees the sun or the stars during this time. The sailors do not know where land is when the storm ends. They are very tired and have no “hope of being saved” (Acts 27:20, NLV). 

`Read the story in Acts 27:21–26. What is the next thing that Paul wants to do to help?`

Paul tells the sailors that God gave him a special message for them. Paul tells them to not give up or stop hoping. Yes, they will meet more danger, and they will lose more things. But no one will die. 

`Paul is a loyal servant of God. But he suffers so much. Why? What can we learn from Paul’s experiences?`