---
title:  The Ship Sinks
date:   24/09/2018
---

There are 276 people on the ship that Paul sails on (Acts 27:37). Paul tells everyone on the ship that no one will die. But there will be problems. The ship will sink (Acts 27:22). Then the ship sinks 14 days later, just as Paul warns. How does that happen? The ship is in an awful storm. It already is far away from land. The sailors think they are near land because they can hear the noise of waves crashing on shore (Acts 27:27). They are afraid the ship will hit rocks near the beach. So, they try to find out how deep the water is. They drop four anchors from the back of the ship to help slow down the ship. At the same time, they pray to their gods for daylight (Acts 27:28, 29).

`Read the story in Acts 27:30–44. What lessons for us do you see in this story?`

Julius, the Roman army leader, is kind to Paul from the start of their trip to Rome. But Julius has no special reason to trust Paul. But before the ship leaves Fair Havens, Paul warns the crew that their ship will sink. Paul earns Julius’s respect because he warns the crew that their ship will break apart before it happens (Acts 27:21–26). 

Before the ship sinks, Paul tells the people on the ship to eat. If they do not eat, they will not be strong enough to swim to shore. There is a lesson for us in Paul’s advice. God wants us to do our duty. “This story shows us how God and man must work together. God gives the sailors hope that He will keep them safe. But the people also must do their part to make sure they stay safe too.”—David J. Williams, Acts (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Books, 1990), page 438, adapted. 

Then morning comes. The sailors see land with a beach. They decide they will land the ship there. But the ship never touches the beach. On its way there, the ship hits a big hill of sand in the water and breaks apart. The soldiers plan to kill the prisoners so they cannot escape. But Julius stops their plan because of Paul. In the end, no one dies, just as God promises. 

`Julius tells his soldiers not to kill the prisoners because of Paul. What does that tell us about the power of Paul’s witness for God?`