---
title:  Paul Travels To Malta
date:   25/09/2018
---

The ship is lost at sea for two weeks. The wind carries the ship about 475 miles away from Fair Havens in Crete. The people on the sinking ship swim to the beach. Then they learn they are on Malta. Malta is a small island in the middle of the Mediterranean. It is south of the island of Sicily. Now the people must wait three months for winter to end before continuing their trip (Acts 28:11). 

`Read the story in Acts 28:1–10. What happens in this story to Paul on the island of Malta? How is God able to use Paul to witness to other people about the truth?`

The people on the island of Malta are very friendly and kind to Paul. Paul and his group are wet and cold when they arrive on the beach. So, the first thing the people on Malta do is light a fire to warm them up. The temperature on Malta at that time of year is less than 50 degrees Farenheit.

Then a snake bites Paul. Everyone’s attention is on Paul because of the snakebite. At first, the people on Malta believe the snake bites Paul because the gods are punishing Paul for something he did wrong. They think Paul must be a killer. They believe that Paul tried to escape from death by drowning. But the gods caught Paul before he drowned. Maybe the people on Malta also believe the goddess Dikē took Paul from the sea. The goddess Dikē controlled justice and revenge. But Paul does not die from the snakebite. So, the people on Malta think Paul must be a god. The same thing happened in Lystra several years go (Acts 14:8–18). Luke does not write much about what happens on Malta. But clearly, Paul uses what happens there as a chance to tell the people on Malta about his God. One of those people is Publius. 

Who is Publius? Maybe he is the Roman ruler of Malta. Or maybe he is a very rich and important man. He welcomes Paul and his group for three days until they can find another place to stay. Paul heals Publius’s father. This miracle gives Paul the chance to work for God as a healer.  Paul heals many people on Malta. Does anyone on Malta accept Jesus? Luke does not say. But this story about Paul shows that we need to care for people and their needs when we work for God. This work is also an important part of the Good News about Jesus (Acts 20:35; read also Titus 3:14).