---
title:  Paul Arrives In Rome, At Last
date:   26/09/2018
---

Paul and his group stay three months on Malta. Then they are able to continue their trip (Acts 28:11). They arrive in Puteoli (Acts 28:13) in the Bay of Naples. From there, they travel to Rome by road (read Acts 28:11–16). 

The news about Paul’s arrival in Italy travels to Rome very fast. Some believers from Rome travel many miles south to welcome Paul. Paul never visited Rome before. But he has many friends in the city. Who are they? Family members, co-workers, Christians, and many other people who love Paul (Romans 16:3–16). For sure, the meeting between Paul and the believers touches all their hearts very deeply. After all, Paul could have died when the ship broke apart. Also, Paul wears chains. The love that Paul’s friends show him touches his heart. Paul thanks God for their love. It gives Paul hope to move forward and stand trial in Rome. 

In his letter about Paul, Festus may have said Paul was not guilty of breaking any Roman law (Acts 25:26, 27; Acts 26:31, 32). That may explain why Paul is allowed to rent a house to live in (Acts 28:30) and does not go to a prison. But Paul is chained to a Roman soldier all the time. That is the Roman law for prisoners. Luke tells us that Paul is able to pay for his house. How does Paul have money for the rent? Clearly, Paul is able to continue working as a tentmaker and earn money too (Acts 18:3). 

`Read Acts 28:17–22. What does Paul do as soon as he moves into his house?`

Paul cannot go visit the Jews in the city. So, Paul asks the local Jewish leaders to come to him. He tells them he is not guilty of the crimes the Jews blame him for doing. He explains that the Romans arrested him because of what he believes about Jesus (Acts 23:6; Acts 24:15; Acts 26:6–8). Paul is not trying to make himself look good. He only wants the Jewish leaders to trust him so he can preach the Good News about Jesus to them. The Jews are surprised that no one from Jerusalem tells them anything about Paul. So, they decide to listen to Paul’s teachings about Jesus.  

`Read Acts 28:22. What does this verse tell us about people’s anger against Christians at this time? How can we stay loyal to what we believe when others do not believe the same thing we do?`