---
title:  The Power Of The Good News
date:   27/09/2018
---

The Jews in Rome come in large groups to listen to Paul preach the Good News about Jesus (Acts 28:23).

`Read Acts 28:24–31. As these verses show us, why does Paul end his speech with the verses from Isaiah?`

The verses Paul shares with the Jews are from Isaiah 6:9, 10. These verses show us what happens when people refuse to accept God’s truth. Some Jews believe Paul’s message about Jesus. Other Jews do not. Many Jews turn away from what Paul says. So, Paul talks with the non-Jews in Rome about the Good News (Acts 13:46, 47; Acts 18:6). 

Paul waits two years before he stands for his trial in front of the King of Rome. While Paul waits in his house-prison, he shares the Good News with everyone who visits him. The last chapter in Acts shows us the power the Good News has. Nothing can stop the Good News at all. 

It is not clear why Luke ends the book of Acts with this story. We know Paul goes free. Paul goes on one more trip to share the Good News. Then he is arrested and goes to Rome as a prisoner again, where he is killed (2 Timothy 4:6–8). Why does Luke end his book before adding this extra story about Paul? Maybe because Luke’s reason for writing the book of Acts is to show us how the Good News will go to all the people on earth, even to Rome. By the time the Romans let Paul go free, the Good News already spread “to the ends of the earth” (Acts 1:8, NLV). So, that may be the reason why Luke does not add this extra story about Paul. 

“Paul is patient and cheerful during the time he is a prisoner in Rome. His courage and faith are a sermon. His spirit is not the spirit of the people on this earth. His spirit shows everyone that God lives in Him. Paul’s example leads Christians to do all they can to share the Good News with people everywhere. In these ways, Paul’s chains help to change the lives of other people.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders], page 464, adapted. 

The book of Acts is not finished. Now it is our turn to add the last chapter. It is our turn to finish the work Jesus gave His followers. When we do our part, “‘then the end will come’” (Matthew 24:14, NLV).