---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   28/09/2018
---

“Jesus gave the church a duty that is holy. Every church member should allow God to use him or her to share with everyone the news about His special treasures. What are these special treasures? They are His grace. [Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin.] God’s special treasures are also the riches that come from Jesus. These riches cannot be fully understood by humans. Jesus wants so much for His people to show His Spirit and His love to everyone else on this earth. The people on this earth need Jesus’ love so much. They need to see it in God’s people. All heaven waits for men and women who will let God use them to show to other people the power of living a Christian life.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 600, adapted. 

“God waits for the whole church to serve other people. When that happens, everyone in the church will work for God with the skills, gifts, and talents that God gives him or her. Church members must do the work God gives them at home or in far away places where God needs their work. When they do this work, then everyone on earth soon will be warned that Jesus is coming back with power and much glory.”—Page 111, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	How does Luke show us Paul’s faith during the trip to Rome? How does Paul’s faith change other people?`

`2.	Paul has some very hard experiences in life. But he never gives up his faith or his work for God. In Rome, Paul is a prisoner, but he continues to preach anyway. How can Paul’s example help us when we want to give up sharing the Good News with someone?`

`3.	Read Romans 1:14, 15. Why does Paul feel it is his duty to preach the Good News about Jesus to everyone? Do we have the same duty Paul has? Think about this truth: “The most important work of every Christian should be to save souls. God has given us grace. He has given us light. He has shown us His beautiful and powerful truth. We must repay God for these gifts by sharing them with other people.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [special messages] for the Church, volume 4, page 53, adapted.`