---
title:  Abraham Shows His Faith In Jesus
date:   10/11/2024
---

Jesus wasn’t afraid to tell people about Himself. He also shared what other people said about Him long ago in the past. Abraham was one of the people who talked about the Savior.

`Why did John include Abraham’s story about the Savior in his book? Read Genesis 12:3; Genesis 18:16–18; Genesis 26:4; Matthew 1:1; and Acts 3:25 for the answer.`

“ ‘The Scriptures [the Old Testament] told what would happen in the future. These writings said that God would make the non-Jewish people right [accepted; clean] through [because of] their faith. God told this Good News to Abraham before it happened.’ Galatians 3:8 [ERV]. Abraham showed faith in the coming Savior. Jesus told the Jews, ‘Your father Abraham was very happy that he would see the day when I came. He saw that day and was happy.’ John 8:56 [ERV]. God gave Abraham a male sheep to offer as a substitute for Isaac. This sheep was a symbol of Jesus, the Son of God. Humans sinned and broke God’s law. Their punishment was death. The Father looked at His Son and said to sinners, ‘Live. I have found a substitute who will die for your sins.’ ”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 154, adapted.

Abraham was the father of the Jewish people. God gave Abraham the promise that everyone on earth would be ­blessed in the future because of him. This future blessing was the Savior. The Savior was born from Abraham’s future children.

Abraham also was the father of everyone who accepts God in faith (Hebrews 11:8, 17–19). Abraham was willing to give his son Isaac as an offering to God (Genesis 22). This action showed Abraham’s faith. Abraham’s offering also helps us understand God’s plan to save sinners.

Jesus said to the Jews, “ ‘Your father Abraham was very happy that he would see the day when I came’ ” (John 8:56, ERV). The leaders answered, “ ‘What? How can you say you have seen Abraham? You are not even [so much as] 50 years old!’ ” (John 8:57, ERV).

Jesus’ answer is amazing. He says, “ ‘For sure, I tell you, before Abraham was born, I was and am and always will be!’ ” (John 8:58, NLV). Jesus uses words that help us remember what God said to Moses at the burning bush. When Jesus says these words, the leaders understand that Jesus is saying He is God. So, the leaders pick up stones to throw at Jesus (John 8:59).