---
title:  Mary Shows Her Faith In Jesus
date:   11/11/2024
---

Six days before Passover, Jesus visits Mary, Martha, and their brother Lazarus. Passover was the time when God saved the Israelites from slavery in Egypt. A little while before, Jesus woke Lazarus up from the dead. Jesus also healed Simon, their neighbor, from a terrible skin disease. Simon invited people to honor Jesus at a feast. Simon was thankful that Jesus healed him. Martha served at the feast. Lazarus sat at the table with the guests (John 12:1–8).

`What does Mary do at the feast? What does her behavior show us about her? Also, how do her actions show us who Jesus really is? Read John 12:1–3 for the answers.`

The perfume was very expensive. It was worth about a year’s pay for the everyday worker at that time. Mary may have brought this perfume to show Jesus that she was thankful to Him for forgiving her sins. Jesus also woke her brother up from the dead. Mary planned to use the perfume someday to pour on Jesus’ body after He died and was laid in the grave. But then Mary heard that Jesus was going to become King. She wanted to be the first one to pour oil on Him and bring Him honor.

Mary didn’t want anyone to notice what she was doing. But John tells us, “And the sweet smell from the perfume filled the whole house” (John 12:3, ERV). Judas scolded Mary. Judas said that the perfume should have been sold and the money given to the poor. But Jesus said, “ ‘Leave her alone. She has kept this oil for the time when they will bury me. You will have poor people with you always. But you will not always have me with you’ ” (John 12:7, 8, WE).

Jesus knows what is in people’s hearts. We see this important idea in the Book of John again and again (John 2:24, 25; John 6:70, 71; John 13:11; John 16:19). Jesus knows what is in Judas’s heart at Simon’s feast. John makes sure to tell us that Judas was selfish and a thief (John 12:6).

`Jesus knew what was in Mary’s heart and in Judas’s heart. Jesus knows what’s in your heart, too. What should this important truth teach us about our need for Jesus to change our hearts and fill us with His holy life?`