---
title:  Pilate Announces Who Jesus Is
date:   12/11/2024
---

John tells us how the Jewish leaders try, again and again, to arrest Jesus, put Him on trial, and kill Him. The leaders failed many times. Jesus says, His time to die had not come (John 2:4; John 7:6, 8, 30; John 12:7, 23, 27; John 13:1; John 17:1).

In chapter 19, the time comes for Jesus to die. Soldiers arrest Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. The soldiers take Jesus to Annas, then Caiaphas, the top Jewish spiritual leader. Then the soldiers take Jesus to Pilate two times.

As we saw already, John writes about many people who announce that Jesus is the Savior. Now John writes about one more person who announces who Jesus is. Pilate puts Jesus on trial. Pilate’s announcement about Jesus is important because Pilate is a Roman, a governor, and a judge. Most people who tell us about Jesus were Jews or people who were not rich and powerful.

`What does Pilate say about Jesus? What important idea in the Book of John does Pilate’s announcement show us? Read John 18:38 and John 19:4–22 for the answers.`

The soldiers bring Jesus to Pilate early on Friday morning (John 18:28). Pilate’s plan was to send the prisoner quickly to die. But Pilate is surprised when He meets Jesus. Jesus is so filled with peace. The governor then carefully asks Jesus questions. Pilate listens to Jesus’ answers. Jesus says, “ ‘You say that I am a king. The reason that I was born was that I should tell what is true [Bible truth]. That is why I came into the world [to the people on earth]. Everyone who likes what is true listens to what I say’ ” (John 18:37, WE).

In the end, the governor sends Jesus to die on the cross. But before Pilate sends Jesus to the cross, he announces three times that Jesus is innocent (John 18:38; John 19:4, 6). Above the cross, Pilate put a sign with these words: “jesus of nazareth, the king of the jews” (read John 19:19, ERV). This sign is part of Pilate’s announcement about who Jesus is. But Pilate sent Jesus to die on the cross anyway.

The Truth Himself, Jesus, stood in front of Pilate. But Pilate let the mob bully him into making the wrong decision. Pilate is a sad example of what happens when we pay no attention to what our hearts and minds tell us is correct!