---
title:  Thomas Shares His Faith In Jesus
date:   13/11/2024
---

`Read the story about Thomas in John 20:19–31. What can we learn about faith and doubt from Thomas’s story? What big mistake did Thomas make?`

Jesus showed Himself to His followers after He woke up from the dead. Jesus’ followers were afraid. So, they hid together in a room and shut the door. Thomas wasn’t with the other followers. Later, Thomas heard the news from the other followers that Jesus woke up from the dead. But Thomas was sad. The news didn’t match his idea about God’s kingdom. Maybe Thomas wondered why Jesus showed Himself to His other followers when Thomas wasn’t there.

Thomas said, “ ‘I will not believe it until I see the nail marks in his hands. And I will not believe until I put my finger where the nails were and put my hand into his side’ ” (John 20:25, ICB).

Do you see how Thomas refuses to believe until Jesus gives him enough proof first? We see many people who behave this way in the Book of John. Nicodemus argued with Jesus, saying, “ ‘But if a man is already old, how can he be born again?’ ” (John 3:4, ICB). The woman at the well asked Jesus, “ ‘Sir, where will you get that living water? The well is very deep, and you have nothing to get water with’ ” (John 4:11, ERV). After Jesus fed the crowd with the bread and fish, they asked Him, “ ‘What miracle will you do? If we can see a miracle, then we will believe you. What will you do?’ ” (John 6:30, ICB).

Many people will not believe until they see proof first. But the Book of John warns us against doubting. After Jesus woke up from the dead, He asks Thomas to come, see, and touch His body. Then Jesus says, “ ‘God will bless people who believe though [even if; while] they have not seen me’ ” (John 20:29, WE).

“God doesn’t ask us to believe without giving us proof for our faith. The proof God gives us is in His life, His love, and the Bible. These things give us many good reasons to believe. But God doesn’t remove all reasons for doubt. So, we must trust the proof that God gives us. We must not ask God to prove Himself to us before we have faith in Him.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 105, adapted.

`What if someone asked you, “Why do you believe in Jesus?” What would you say?`