---
title:  Our Story About Jesus
date:   14/11/2024
---

Imagine in your mind that you were there with Jesus and saw Him do His miracles. We’d believe in Jesus after seeing these signs and wonders, right? We’d like to think so. In some ways, we have more reasons to believe in Jesus than the people did who saw in person the miracles He did.

What are those reasons?

`What are some of the happenings and knowledge that we, as Christians, have today that the people who lived at the time of Jesus didn’t have? How do these things help us believe in Jesus? Read Matthew 24:2; Matthew 24:14; and Matthew 24:6–8 to answer the questions.`

Yes, we have the powerful story about Jesus’ life in the Book of John. We also can look back at history and see how the things that Jesus and other Bible writers promised came true. Jesus said that the temple in Jerusalem would be destroyed (Matthew 24:2). Jesus promised that His followers would share the Good News everywhere on earth (Matthew 24:14). We also can see the terrible falling away and separation that Paul said would happen in the church (2 Thessalonians 2:3). We can see that this earth continues to be an evil place, just as Jesus said (Matthew 24:6–8). All during the life and work of Jesus, His group of followers was small. People attacked and hurt them because of their faith. So, Jesus’ followers should have disappeared from history a long time ago. How could these Christians know, as we do, that all the things the Bible promised would happen? Those things did happen. Our faith is itself a part of the promise that Jesus made when He said His followers would share the Good News everywhere on earth.

Today, 2,000 years later, we can tell people about Jesus. We can share what He did for us in the past and what He does for us now. People can tell us why they believe in Jesus, too. Their reasons may help us. But we must learn about Jesus for ourselves. We learn about Jesus when we read the Bible. The Holy Spirit helps us to understand its wisdom and accept Jesus as our Savior.

Each one of us can have a story to tell about Jesus. But first we must have a relationship with God. Our story may not be as amazing as seeing the dead wake up. Maybe we never saw someone, who was born blind, see for the first time. But if we know Jesus, as a Friend, we can tell other people about Him.