---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   15/11/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Test of Faith,” pages 145–155, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “In Pilate’s Judgment Hall,” pages 723–740, in The Desire of Ages.

Thomas “knelt down at the feet of Jesus. ‘Thomas said to Jesus, “My Lord and my God!” ’ [John 20:28, ERV]. . . .

“Jesus accepted Thomas’s faith. At the same time, in a soft and loving way, Jesus also scolded Thomas about his doubts. ‘Jesus said to him, “You yourself have seen me. Is that why you now believe? God will bless people who believe though they have not seen me.” ’ [John 20:29, WE]. Thomas’ faith would please Jesus more if Thomas was willing to believe what the other followers told him about Jesus. If we now followed Thomas’ example, no one would believe and be saved. Everyone who accepts Jesus must accept Him because of the stories that other people share about Him.

“Many people doubt. They excuse their doubt because they say that if they had the proof that Thomas had, they would believe. These people don’t understand that they already have that proof. They also have so much more. Many people wait, the same as Thomas, for God to remove all cause for doubt. But if they wait, they will never have faith. After a while, they will not believe. People who look on the dark side of things and complain don’t understand what they are doing. They are ‘planting’ seeds of doubt. They must collect the terrible crop of doubt that grew from these seeds. Then they will have no power to hope and believe in a time when they need faith and trust the most.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 807, 808, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How were Abraham and Thomas different in their faith? What can we learn from their stories?`

`Ask for volunteers in class to share their faith about Jesus. Our stories about Jesus may be different. But how do our stories about Jesus show us the same Bible truths about Him?`

`Pilate asked Jesus, “What is truth?” How does the Book of John help us answer this question?`

`Look at Daniel 2 and 7. How do these chapters give us more reasons to believe in Jesus?`