---
title:  Jesus Gives Us Hope That Keeps Us Safe
date:  05/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Hebrews 6:4, 5; Romans 6:6; Galatians 5:24; Hebrews 10:26–29; Hebrews 6:9–12.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “This hope is a safe anchor for our souls [spirits]. It will never move. This hope goes into the Holiest Place of All behind the curtain of heaven. Jesus has already gone there. He has become our Religious Leader forever and has made the way for man to go to God. He is like [the same in many ways but better than] Melchizedek” (Hebrews 6:19, 20, NLV).

IN HEBREWS 1–4, PAUL EXPLAINS THE WORK THAT JESUS does for us in heaven. Then Paul changes the topic in Hebrews 5:11–6:20. In these verses, Paul gives his readers a strong warning. They are in real danger of losing their faith.

Paul tells his readers not to turn away from Jesus. Paul worries that his readers will lose faith because of all of their troubles and self-pity. They must not stop seeing all the wonderful things Jesus does for them. Or their faith and knowledge about Jesus will stop growing.

We are all in danger of losing faith at times, right?

The warning from Paul ends with words of loving encouragement. Paul tells his readers that he believes in them. Paul also shows his readers that Jesus is the Savior that God promised to send. This promise can never be broken (Hebrews 6:9-20). In Hebrews 10:26–39, Paul gives more words of warning and encouragement. This week, we will study Hebrews 6 and 10 and these words of encouragement.