---
title:  “tasting” The Good Things From God 
date:  06/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What good gifts does Jesus give His followers who obey Him? For the answer, read Hebrews 6:4, 5.`

Paul talks about the people in the past who “have seen the light” (Hebrews 6:4, NLV). The “light” shows us that the people knew Bible truth. The people turned from Satan and his “dark” lies to the “light” or knowledge from God (Acts 26:17, 18). The “light” also shows us that God frees us from sin (Ephesians 5:11) and from the “dark” (1 Thessalonians 5:4, 5). The “dark” is a word picture for people with no understanding. Do you see the verb in Hebrews 6:4 that is written as “seen the light”? This verb shows us that our knowledge about God comes from Jesus. Jesus “shines as bright as God” (Hebrews 1:3, WE).

Paul also says that the people from the past “had the Holy Spirit” (Hebrews 6:5, WE). “They knew the gift from heaven” (Hebrews 6:4, WE). The word written as “heaven” shows us that the gift comes from God. What is this gift? People who have the Holy Spirit know the gift of mercy (Romans 5:15; John 7:36–39; 1 Corinthians 12:13). This mercy also gives us strength to live for God. His Spirit will live in us and control us. Our behavior will change. Then we will become holy (Galatians 5:22, 23).

The words written as “had the Holy Spirit” (Hebrews 6:5, WE) show us another Bible truth. When the Spirit lives in us, we will “know that the Lord is good” (1 Peter 2:2, 3, WE). In Hebrews 6:5 (NIrV), the words written as, “they have tasted the powers of the age to come” show us the future miracles God will do. God will wake us up from the dead (John 5:24, 28, 29). He will change our bodies so we will live forever. Christians may enjoy a small “taste” of these gifts now. How? Jesus gives us a new way of thinking (Romans 12:2) and new life in Him (Colossians 2:12, 13).

When Paul wrote Hebrews 6, he thought about Israel in the desert, for sure. God gave Israel many gifts: mercy, knowledge (Nehemiah 9:12, 19; Psalm 105:39), bread from heaven (Exodus 16:15), His Spirit (Nehemiah 9:20), and special messages (Joshua 21:45). God gave Israel a “taste” of heaven when He freed them from Egypt (Acts 7:36). But Israel turned from God (Numbers 14:1–35). Paul warns his readers that they are in danger of doing the same thing.

`How have you “tasted” the gifts that Paul talks about?`