---
title:  The Ones Who Cannot Come To God Again 
date:  07/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Compare Hebrews 6:4–6; Matthew 16:24; Romans 6:6; Galatians 2:20; Galatians 5:24; and Galatians 6:14. These verses talk about our nailing Jesus to the cross or our nailing our old lives there. Some of the verses talk about picking up our cross. What do all these word pictures show us? What does it mean to nail Jesus to the cross again?`

When people “leave their faith in Christ [Jesus], they cannot come to God again” (Hebrews 6:6, WE). The word “cannot” shows us something that is not possible for God to do. God cannot save people who turn away from Him. Why? “Because those [people] who leave Christ are nailing him to the cross again” (Hebrews 6:6, ERV). Paul wants us to see that we can be saved only by Jesus (Acts 4:12). If we turn from Jesus, we cannot be saved.

When we “nail God’s Son up on the cross again” (Hebrews 6:6, WE), what are we doing? This word picture helps us see the awful thing we do to our personal connection with Jesus when we turn from Him. To help us better understand this idea, think about Jesus in the court of Pilate. Why do the Jewish leaders shout at Pilate to nail Jesus to the cross? The leaders fear Jesus. They see Jesus as a powerful enemy and a danger to their plans. So, the leaders want Jesus dead. In the same way, the person who wants to control his life sees Jesus and His Good News as a danger. Jesus asks us to pick up our cross (Matthew 16:24). We can pick up our cross only if we let go of our old way of life. Then, we can say with Paul, “Because of the cross, the ways of this world [life] are dead to me, and I am dead to them” (Galatians 6:14, NLV). So, if we want to live as Christians, we must first “die” (Romans 6:6; Galatians 5:24). “Dying” shows us we must turn from our old thoughts and behavior. Then we can enjoy the new life God wants to give us (Romans 6:1–11).

The fight between Jesus and our old way of life is a fight to the death (Romans 8:7, 8; Galatians 5:17). We do not win this war after one fight. In Hebrews 6:6, Paul does not show us someone who sometimes fails in this fight. Paul shows us someone who turns away from Jesus after He accepts Him as Savior (Hebrews 6:4, 5). This person decides Jesus is a danger to his old way of life. So, he “kills” his friendship with Jesus. But there is hope. As long as the person does not fully turn from Jesus, he can be saved.