---
title:  No Offering Left For Sin 
date:  08/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 10:26–29. What three things does Paul say in these verses about the person that God cannot forgive?`

Does Paul say that God will not forgive us if we sin after we accept Bible truth? Of course not! God made Jesus our Lawyer in the court of heaven, right (1 John 2:1)? Jesus helps us get forgiveness from the Father (1 John 1:9). But in Hebrews 10:26–29, Paul talks about the sinner that God cannot forgive. What three things does Paul say about this person?

1. This person “walks on and hates the Son of God” (Hebrews 10:29, NLV). This awful word picture shows us the person who refuses to allow Jesus to control his life. The name “Son of God” helps us remember that God tells Jesus to sit at His right side. God then makes Jesus a promise. God will make the enemies of Jesus the same as a “footstool” where Jesus can rest His feet (Hebrews 1:13, ESV; read also Hebrews 1:5–12, 14). The “footstool,” or place for Jesus to rest His feet, is a word picture. It shows us that God will put the enemies of Jesus under His control. The words written as “walks on . . . the Son of God” show us that the person who hates Jesus behaves as if Jesus is his enemy. This behavior shows that the sinner removes Jesus from the throne and puts himself on it! Then the sinner makes Jesus his footstool. Lucifer tried to do this same thing to God (Isaiah 14:12–14). The “Man of Evil” will try to do this same thing in the end times (2 Thessalonians 2:3, 4, ERV).
2. “He acts as if the blood of God’s New Way of Worship is worth nothing” (Hebrews 10:29, NLV). This person rejects the offering that Jesus made for his sin (Hebrews 9:15–22). The blood of Jesus no longer has the power to remove the guilt of this person and make him clean.
3. The person “laughs at the Holy Spirit Who wanted to show him loving-favor” (Hebrews 10:29, NLV). The words written as “laughs at” come from the Greek word “enybrisas.” “Enybrisas” shows us someone who makes insults. Compare the evil behavior of this person to the behavior of the Holy Spirit who wants to show the sinner “loving-favor.” So, we see that the one who turns against God answers His offer of mercy with an insult.

This person rejects Jesus, His offering, and the Holy Spirit. So, God cannot forgive him.