---
title:  Better Things 
date:  09/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Hebrews 6:4–8, Paul gives his readers a strong warning not to turn from Jesus. Then Paul tells his readers he feels sure they have not left Jesus. Paul also believes his readers will not leave Jesus in the future. That is because Paul believes his readers will obey his warning and change their lives. Then they will get the blessing God promises: they will be saved (Hebrews 6:7, 9).

Read about the good things in Hebrews 6:9–12 that Paul says his readers did and continue to do. Make a list of these things. Explain what these things show.

Christians show their love for God by their kind acts. The Christians in the book of Hebrews did many kind acts in the past. They also continued to help and serve people. Our love for God is not shown only in the big things we do. We show our love for God by the little things we do for people every day. We really show we love God when we help the poor and needy (Matthew 10:42; Matthew 25:31–46). So, Paul tells his readers not to forget to do good (Hebrews 13:2, 16).

Paul warns his readers not to become “lazy” (Hebrews 6:12, ERV). They must “not give up” (Hebrews 6:12, WE). Lazy people fail to grow in faith. They also are in danger of turning from Jesus (Hebrews 5:11; Hebrews 6:12). Paul wants his readers to have hope. We keep hope alive by doing acts of love for other people (Romans 13:8–10).

Paul also wants his readers to copy the lives of people who showed faith and were patient. Paul already warned his readers not to follow the bad example of the Israelites in the desert. The desert Israelites did not believe God. They gave up easily. So, they did not get what God promised them. Paul then shows us Abraham (Hebrews 6:13–15). Abraham is an excellent example of faith. Abraham was patient. So, God gave Abraham the promises. In Hebrews 11, Paul gives us a list of powerful examples of faith. The list ends in Hebrews 12 with Jesus. Jesus is the best example of faith. Jesus is patient (Hebrews 12:1–4). Revelation 14:12 shows us that the end-time people of God also are patient, show faith, and keep the law of God.

`Sometimes we must give warnings to the ones we love. What can we learn from Paul about the best way to warn and encourage people?`