---
title:  Jesus Gives Us Hope That Keeps Us Safe 
date:  10/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Paul ends his warning with a beautiful explanation about the hope we have in Jesus to save us.

`Read about the promise of God to us in Hebrews 6:17–20. How does God show us that He will keep His promise?`

God wanted to show in several ways that He will keep His promise to us. First, God made an oath (Hebrews 6:17). God also made oaths to Abraham and David. These oaths show us that God always will show His loving-favor to His people. Remember when Moses asked God to forgive Israel after they worshiped the gold cow? Moses asked God to remember His oath to Abraham at that time (read Exodus 32:11–14; Genesis 22:16–18). This promise from God cannot be changed or broken (Romans 9:4; Romans 11:28, 29).

Psalm 89 shows us the same thing. Ethan the Ezrahite wrote this psalm. In this psalm, Ethan asks God to help Israel. Ethan is sure God will help. Why? Because Ethan trusts in the promise God made to King David. God said: “ ‘I will not break my agreement with David. I will never change what I said. By my holiness [my holy Name], I made a promise to him, and I would not lie to David. His family will continue forever. His kingdom will last [continue] as long as the sun. Like [just as] the moon, it will continue forever’ ” (Psalm 89:34–37, ERV). The New Testament shows us that Jesus kept both promises God made to Abraham and David (Galatians 3:13–16; Luke 1:31–33, 54, 55).

Second, God showed us that He will keep His promises to us when He told Jesus to sit at His right side after Jesus came back to heaven. “Jesus has gone there ahead of us” (Hebrews 6:20, WE). He went there ahead of us to make “the way for man to go to God” (Hebrews 6:20, NLV). So, when Jesus went to heaven, He showed us that we can trust in the promise God made to save us. God gave Jesus much praise and honor in heaven. But Jesus needed to suffer and die for everyone first. His death will save many people (Hebrews 2:9, 10). “This promise gives our hearts something to hold on to. It keeps our hearts strong and steady. It will take us into the Holy Place right inside God’s house” (Hebrews 6:19, WE).

`God made an oath to you. How does that thought make you feel? Why should it help you trust God to save you?`