---
title:  Further Thought
date:  11/02/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “John the Beloved,” pages 539–545, in The Acts of the Apostles; “Judas,” pages 716–722, in The Desire of Ages.

“The war we must fight against self and sin is the biggest and most important war we will fight. So, we must give ourselves to God. We must put our lives under His full control. We will need to fight hard to do these things. But we must give ourselves to God first. Then He can make our lives new and holy.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 43, adapted.

“John wanted to become the way Jesus was. The love of Jesus changed John. This love removed the pride from the heart of John. Then John became gentle and kind. Jesus fully lived in the heart of John. More than any of the other followers of Jesus, John gave himself to Jesus and allowed Jesus to live in Him. . . .

“John loved Jesus with a deep love that did not fail. This love caused John always to want to be close to Jesus and at His side. The Savior loved all Twelve of His followers. But John loved Jesus the most. He was younger than the other followers of Jesus. So, John trusted Jesus the way a child trusts his father. John gave Jesus his heart. In this way, John grew very close to Jesus. Jesus gave John His deepest and most spiritual teachings. John wrote these precious teachings for us in the Bible. . .

“The holy life of Jesus made John beautiful. It changed him. His face shined with the beauty of Jesus. John looked at Jesus with love until his one wish in life was to become the way Jesus was and to be close to Him always. The life of John showed the life and love of his Master.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 544, 545, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Compare the lives of John and Judas. When Jesus saw John and his brother, Jesus called them Boanerges, which means the sons of thunder. This name shows us that John had an evil temper. Judas also had faults. But his faults were no worse than the faults John had. So, why did John change and become the way Jesus was? Why did Judas sin against the Holy Spirit?`

`Why does God ask us to give our lives fully to His control? What is the connection between our free choice and being saved?`