---
title:  Turning the Hearts
date:  09/06/2019
---

**Logos**: 2 Sam. 12:5–17; Psalm 51; Prov. 22:6; Mal. 4:5, 6

**We Are a Nation at War (Mal. 4:5, 6)**

We are a nation at war! Not a war of guns and bombs, not a war of armored vehicles or F-15’s, but a real war nonetheless. This battle is raged against our children, the very precious gifts God has given us. Randall Terry says in a Time magazine article, “I believe that there is a devil, and here’s Satan’s agenda. First, he doesn’t want anyone having kids. Secondly, if they do conceive, he wants them killed. If they’re not killed through abortion, he wants them neglected or abused, physically, emotionally, sexually. Barring that, he wants to get them into some godless curriculum or setting, where their minds are filled with pollution. One way or another, the legions of hell want to destroy children because children become the future adults and leaders. If they can warp or wound a child, he or she becomes a warped or wounded adult who passes on this affliction to the next generation.”1 Malachi informs us that God will send the message of Elijah to “turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers” (Mal. 4:6, NKJV).

**The Sin of David (2 Sam. 12:5–17)**

David allowed himself to trust himself apart from God and entered into an adulterous relationship with Bathsheba. Whenever you believe you can do it on your own, you are sure to fall. When David was confronted by the prophet Nathan, he sentenced himself by saying, “And he shall restore fourfold for the lamb, because he did this thing and because he had no pity” (2 Sam. 12:6, NKJV). God allowed David’s self-proclaimed prophecy to come true.

The first son of David and Bathsheba died only seven days later (2 Sam. 12:18). Thereafter, Amnon raped David’s daughter Tamar. And although David was angry, he did nothing about it. After two years, Absalom killed Amnon his brother for what he did to his sister, Tamar. David had allowed Absalom to go two years angered with grief because he would not address the issues. Some of David’s sons tried to seize the throne, resulting in their deaths. All of these events transpired because of the sin of the father.

**David Repents (Psalm 51)**

Psalm 51 helps us understand the heart of David and his allegiance to God after he so grievously sinned against God and his family. First, it is a lesson for fathers, and parents in general, that we can go to God for forgiveness when we have erred. Second, not only can we be forgiven, but God will enable us to be reconciled back to our children. Many times children struggle with the same sins the parents succumbed to. Parents can help their children overcome by helping them understand why they do what they do and think the way they think. By working with children in this way, the hearts of children and parents may be turned to one another. Parents ought to have honest conversations with their children. Sometimes, opening up about your own struggles will help someone else navigate theirs.

David’s last words are recorded as a song in 2 Samuel 23:1–5. Great had been David’s fall, but deep was his repentance; ardent was his love; and strong his faith. He had been forgiven much, and therefore he loved much.

**Parents Need to Be Parents and Not Just Friends (Prov. 22:6)**

It is time for the parents in our land to once again accept the responsibility of parenting. It is time we require obedience from our children. It is time, as children, that we obey our parents “in the Lord: for this is right” (Eph. 6:1). But the Bible also says, “And you, fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath, but bring them up in the training and admonition of the Lord” (verse 4, NKJV). We provoke our children when we demand obedience without investing in a relationship with them. To demand obedience without a relationship will inevitably provoke rebellion. A relationship means that parents not only know their children but allow their children to know them. The goal is not to be best friends but to understand each other’s thoughts and motives. This will give children some guidelines to navigate their world.

Children can find friends at school or at church. But at home, our children need parents. It is high time that parents be parents and let God turn their hearts back to their children so that their children can turn their hearts back to them.

 

---

<sup>1. Richard Lacayo and Randall Terry, “Interview: Randall Terry,” Time, October 21, 1991</sup>

_Julius R. Everett Sr., Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_