---
title:  The Earthly Family Is a Symbol of the Heavenly Family
date:  10/06/2019
---

**Testimony**: Deut. 6:5–8

“God would have our families symbols of the family in heaven. Let parents and children bear this in mind every day, relating themselves to one another as members of the family of God. Then their lives will be of such a character as to give to the world an object lesson of what families who love God and keep His commandments may be. Christ will be glorified; His peace and grace and love will pervade the family circle like a precious perfume.

“Much depends on the father and mother. They are to be firm and kind in their discipline, and they are to work most earnestly to have an orderly, correct household, that the heavenly angels may be attracted to it to impart peace and a fragrant influence.”1

God allows families to be tried and tested to draw them closer to Himself. “From age to age the Lord has made known the manner of His working. When a crisis has come, He has revealed Himself, and has interposed to hinder the working out of Satan’s plans. With nations, with families, and with individuals, He has often permitted matters to come to a crisis, that His interference might become marked. Then He has made manifest that there is a God in Israel who will maintain His law and vindicate His people.”2

The family is not immune to the attacks of Satan. “While men are ignorant of his devices, this vigilant foe is upon their track every moment. He is intruding his presence in every department of the household, in every street of our cities, in the churches, in the national councils, in the courts of justice, perplexing, deceiving, seducing, everywhere ruining the souls and bodies of men, women, and children, breaking up families, sowing hatred, emulation, strife, sedition, murder. And the Christian world seems to regard these things as though God had appointed them and they must exist.

“Satan is continually seeking to overcome the people of God by breaking down the barriers which separate them from the world.”3

**React**

`1. The Bible says, “The trying of your faith worketh patience” (James 1:3). Can you recall an experience when God allowed a crisis to strike your family for the good?`

`2. Why do you think Satan especially targets the family?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, p. 17.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 178.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 508.</sup>

_Patience Barnes, Mount Pleasant, Pennsylvania, USA_