---
title:  Leave No Stone Unturned
date:  11/06/2019
---

**Evidence**: 1 Sam. 17:12–29

Sibling relationships rank among the most complex of relationships. The second familial relationship narrated in Scripture with specific detail is that of siblings. The mismanagement of Cain’s emotions toward Abel led to humanity’s first recorded murder. This biblical account serves as a powerful case study on how approval and conflict can stir irrational responses, especially among brothers.

The Valley of Elah bears unique significance to the emergence of the biblical character David. It is there that he encounters and defeats the giant of Gath, Goliath. David’s confrontation with the secret weapon of the Philistine army is met with the strategic preparation and precision of an expert shepherd boy; his weapon of choice being “five smooth stones” (1 Sam. 17:40).

A closer investigation reveals that though the physical battle presents a significant layer of adversity, the additional pressure of sibling discord lurks in the background.

The dialogue between David and Eliab (verses 28, 29), the eldest of Jesse’s sons, reveals animosity. David is old enough to fight but not of acceptable age to enlist in the Israelite army. Furthermore, his résumé of combat bears only the duties of a shepherd. Though David is confident in his ability to match the great giant, an unlikely character witness questions his motives. Who better to set him straight than his elder brother? If Eliab could not be convinced of David’s ability and sincerity, why should anyone else be? For David, the battle begins before the valley, yet he “did not render railing for railing; with a soft answer he turned away his brother’s wrath. . . . Those that undertake great and public services must not think it strange if they be discountenanced and opposed by those from whom they had reason to expect support and assistance; but must humbly go on with their work, in the face not only of their enemies’ threats, but of their friends’ slights and suspicions.”1

Nothing would be gained from a rash response, but all could be jeopardized if it became the focal point. The battle that David wins in this sibling rivalry is only the beginning of the victory he would gain that day. When confronted, we often throw the emotional stones of words. But David’s victory teaches us to practice restraint.

---

<sup>1. Matthew Henry, Matthew Henry’s Commentary on the Whole Bible: Complete and Unabridged in One Volume (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson, 1991), p. 413.</sup>

_Kaneil Williams, Laurel, Maryland, USA_