---
title:  Becoming
date:  12/06/2019
---

**How-to**: Jer. 1:5

A flower, much like our lives, starts out as a tiny seed planted among others. From the very beginning, God knew what it would be and what it would have to endure through the process of becoming. The benefits of the soil, sun, and rain abundantly provide all it needs to grow. Weathering the winds and rains and enduring the litter dumped upon them and the trampling feet of the indifferent who fail to see their worth are just a few things that make the plants more resilient.

In Christian homes, a popular motto and practice is, “A family that prays together stays together.” There’s power in prayer, and uniting in intercessory prayer within our family units is the best thing that can be done to strengthen faith and improve each member in it. God wants us to grow to be our best, so if we keep our faces turned upward to the Son and ask Him for His blessings and then wait on Him with an expecting faith, we will receive (Luke 12:27, 28). God has proven Himself time and time again with showers of blessings upon those who believe—showers that will develop strong roots and encourage healthy growth.

God knows how to make our differences work so that everything comes together beautifully! It’s such an amazing thing when one can gather different types of flowers and arrange them in a garden or vase to create the most beautiful setting. Different species, colors, shapes, sizes, and scents complement each other. Some families wind up with members of different races, cultures, skin tones, and backgrounds, some through foster care and adoption, and God makes it work! If all remember to rely upon and obey God, He will help them gain all the strength and stability they need.

You may wonder what your value is while being raised among your family of flowers. God created them for more than just beauty. Some flowers are edible; have medicinal purposes; play important roles in our traditions of both joyous and somber occasions, providing peace, comfort, and joy; reduce stress, and alleviate anxiety. If God can have a purpose for a flower, then He definitely has one for you, even if you are not sure what it is yet (Jer. 29:11). Do you feel as though no one is out there to love and support you, as though no one really cares? If you are living life feeling this way, you should know that you do have a Father who loves you and who is willing to do all He possibly can for you to succeed in this life and to have you by His side in the next (John 15:5; Heb. 13:5; 1 John 3:1).

---

_T. Michelle Beard, Hazel Green, Alabama, USA_