---
title:  Fabric of Family
date:  13/06/2019
---

**Opinion**: Acts 10:1–28; Rom. 1:16; John 3:16

As human beings, we need to build strong bonds with others and our Creator. The family is representative of God’s love, and we see the character of God in every family unit. The sacrifice, love, forgiveness, and tenacity it takes to maintain healthy family relationships is a direct reflection of the relationship between our heavenly Father and our Savior, Jesus Christ. The fabric of God’s family is made of the innumerous threads of diverse families who believe and have made a choice to continue to endure with love. God is pleased with families who are generous, kind, and respectful of the law of love (Acts 10:1–28). As we study Scripture to learn what a family of faith entails, we discover examples of faithful families, the sacrifice of Christ that adopts us into God’s family, and the responsibility of maintaining family through endurance and love.

The Bible speaks of Cornelius and his family, stating, “He and all his family were devout and God-fearing; he gave generously to those in need and prayed to God regularly” (Acts 10:2, NIV). Cornelius and his family exemplify what we as believers want to emulate. His prayer life and humble nature teach us that God is pleased with families that pray daily and care for the needy, those with physical ailments, homeless, orphaned, and those who have developmental delay and mental health issues. Being a part of God’s family boils down to our ability to have an intimate relationship with God through prayer and being kind to others. Jesus paid the ultimate sacrifice for our sins and allowed God to forgive us and reconcile us to Himself. Jesus as our Mediator gave up Himself, the best gift our human race has ever experienced. As the Son of God, Jesus has given us an opportunity to be a part of the family of God regardless of our ethnicity, biology, background, or tradition. At the cross, Jesus said, “Forgive them; for they know not what they do” (Luke 23:34). We have no idea what it took for God to forgive us and give up Jesus to bear the sins of the world. In John 3, we are invited to believe and receive everlasting life. The invitation to be a part of God’s family is open to all who believe. There is a responsibility that comes with being a part of any family. We all have a part to play.

**React**

`1. What are some characteristics that are unique to your family that you enjoy? Are there any characteristics of your family that you would like to change?`

`2. What are some challenges you have faced after deciding to be a part of God’s family?`

---

_Gerdine Dalambert, Columbia, Maryland, USA_