---
title:  In the Footsteps of Your Family
date:  14/06/2019
---

**Exploration**: 1 Kings 15:1–4

**Conclude**

History shows that bad choices have trickled down to our offspring. Because of the many great biblical and personal examples we can look to, we have the power to break generational curses by simply changing the path we take. We all have some type of family dynamic that has shaped who we are. As we weather the storms of family issues and strive to grow together in faith, we need to remember there is a God who desires to save us and wants us to replicate the family in heaven so that we become examples to the world of how to be families that love God.

**Consider**

- Becoming a mentor (big brother or sister) to someone in foster care. Discuss success options with them. Become family to them, and try to direct them prayerfully.
- Talking to someone who had a troubled family life and who was able to overcome by breaking the generational curse and changing the direction of his or her life with God’s guidance.
- Writing out five family dynamics that can cause a child to be rebellious in today’s world.
- Studying the story of Jacob in the Bible and noting how his choices and the choices of others in the family affected his wife and children.
- Thinking of another metaphor besides that of a flower to parallel human growth.
- Reflecting on your own journey and how your life and your family dynamics have strengthened you. How can you use that to help someone else?


**Connect**

Genesis 29–31; 1 Kings 15.

Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, chap. 7, “Jeroboam,” pp. 99–108; Child Guidance, pp. 530, 531.

“Parenting,” Focus on the Family, https://www.focusonthefamily.com/parenting.

---

_Larie S. Gray, College Park, Maryland, USA_