---
title:  His Special People
date:  13/10/2021
---

It’s hard for us today to grasp much of what the ancient world was like at the time in which Israel was wandering the wilderness. If whole empires have come and gone, with only ruins (if that) remaining, what can we know of many of the smaller pagan nations that lived in the same area as Israel did?

Not a whole lot, but we do know one thing: these people were steeped in paganism, polytheism, and some utterly degrading practices, which included child sacrifice. Try to imagine just how degrading and evil a culture and a religion would be that would do that to their own children, and do so in the name of some god!

No wonder, again and again, all through the history of ancient Israel, the Lord had warned His people against following the practices of the nations around them. “ ‘When you come into the land which the Lord your God is giving you, you shall not learn to follow the abominations of those nations’ ” (Deut. 18:9, NKJV).

And that’s because God had called out this nation for a special purpose. By having entered into the covenant with God, they were to be a special people, a witness to the world of the God who created the heaven and the earth—the only God.

`Read Deuteronomy 26:16–19. How is the covenant relationship between God and Israel summed up in these verses? How should their faithfulness to the covenant be manifested in the kind of people they were to become? What lessons can we take from there for ourselves, as well?`

How fascinating that Moses begins these four verses with the words “this day,” as in right now, again, God commands you to do these things (Moses repeats the idea in verse 17). He had been commanding them all along to do these things. It’s as if Moses is telling them they need to commit at this very moment, again, to be the faithful, holy, and special people, which is truly the central reason for their existence as the cove­nant nation. They were the only nation who knew the true God and knew the truth about this God and how He wanted people to live. In a real sense, they not only had “present truth,” but they also were, in their own way, to embody that truth until Jesus, “the Truth” Himself (John 14:6), was to come.

`Why is the idea of “this day” committing to God and to His cove­nant requirements relevant even to us, “this day”?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The most licentious and abominable rites were . . . part of the heathen worship. The gods themselves were represented as impure, and their worshipers gave the rein to the baser passions. Unnatural vices prevailed and the religious festivals were characterized by universal and open impurity. . . .<br/>
From the opening of the great controversy it has been Satan’s purpose to misrepresent God’s character and to excite rebellion against His law, and this work appears to be crowned with success. The multitudes give ear to Satan’s deceptions and set themselves against God. But amid the working of evil, God’s purposes move steadily forward to their accomplishment; to all created intelligences He is making manifest His justice and benevolence. Through Satan’s temptations the whole human race have become transgressors of God’s law, but by the sacrifice of His Son a way is opened whereby they may return to God. Through the grace of Christ they may be enabled to render obedience to the Father’s law. Thus in every age, from the midst of apostasy and rebellion, God gathers out a people that are true to Him—a people “in whose heart is His law.” Isaiah 51:7.—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, pp. 337, 338.

The purpose of all God’s commandments is to reveal man’s duty not only to God, but to his fellow man. In this late age of the world’s history, we are not, because of the selfishness of our hearts, to question or dispute the right of God to make these requirements, or we will deceive ourselves, and rob our souls of the richest blessings of the grace of God. Heart and mind and soul are to be merged in the will of God. Then the covenant, framed from the dictates of infinite wisdom, and made binding by the power and authority of the King of kings and Lord of lords, will be our pleasure. It is enough that He has said that obedience to His statutes and laws is the life and prosperity of His people.<br/>
The blessings of God’s covenant are mutual. God accepts those who will work for His name’s glory, to make His name a praise in a world of apostasy and idolatry. He will be exalted by His commandment-keeping people that He may make them “high above all nations which he hath made, in praise, and in name, and in honour” (Deuteronomy 26:19).—_God’s Amazing Grace_, p. 150.

Every day we are making our history. Yesterday is beyond our amendment or control; today only is ours. Then let us not grieve the Spirit of God today, for tomorrow we shall not be able to recall what we have done. Today will then be yesterday.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 6, p. 149.