---
title:  Filled With Hope
date:   11/05/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
John 14:1–3; Acts 1:9–11; Isaiah 28:9, 10; The Great Controversy, chapters 18–21.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “At that time people will say, ‘Here is our God! He is the one we have been waiting for. He has come to save us. We have been waiting for our Lord. So we will rejoice and be happy when he saves us’ ” (Isaiah 25:9, ERV).

The Second Coming of Jesus is one of the most important teachings in the Bible. The Old Testament talks about the Second Coming 1,845 times. New Testament writers talk about the Second Coming more than 300 times.

The Second Coming was an important belief for early Protestants. This belief gave Protestants hope and helped them join together as one people in heart and mind. But the Protestant religion in Europe started to have problems. Leaders fought with each other and separated. Many Protestants went to the United States. The Protestant religion grew strong in America. There, many Protestants stood for Bible truth, including the Second Coming. One of these Protestants was William Miller. Miller studied the Bible and believed that Jesus was coming in his lifetime. Miller started to preach this message. Jesus didn’t come in Miller’s lifetime. But Miller’s preaching helped people accept Bible truths that are important to this day.

This week, we will study why the Second Coming filled the hearts of God’s people with hope in the past. We will learn what we can do to be ready for Jesus today.