---
title:  The Promise Of His Coming
date:   12/05/2024
---

Many Protestant leaders and pilgrims left Holland for America. They wanted Jesus to come back. They waited for Him with hope and joy. The Protestant leaders who lived before them taught that the Second Coming was a gift from God. John Wycliffe believed that the Second Coming was the hope of the church. Calvin spoke for every Protestant when he said that the Second Coming was the most wonderful promise of all.

`Read John 14:1–3; 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18; and Titus 2:11–14. Why did these verses give so much hope to Christians in the past? Why do these verses fill us with so much hope today?`

We easily can understand why believing in the Second Coming filled Christians with hope. The Second Coming will bring an end to sickness, suffering, and death. The Second Coming will end war and fighting. After the Second Coming, we will enjoy peace, happiness, and fellowship with Jesus and the saved ones from all ages forever.

“The Second Coming has been the hope of His followers in every age. The Savior promised on Olivet to come again. This promise gave His followers hope. This promise filled their hearts with joy. Sadness and hard times could not remove this joy and hope. . . . When the Christians in Thessalonica buried their loved ones, they were sad. Their loved ones had hoped to live to see Jesus come back. Paul was their teacher. He told the Thessalonian Christians to believe in the resurrection when people will wake up from the dead. The resurrection will happen when Jesus comes back. The people who loved Jesus will wake up. Together with the living, they will be taken up in the clouds and meet the Lord in the air. Then Paul adds, ‘And we will be with the Lord forever. So encourage each other with these words.’ 1 Thessalonians 4:16–18 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 302, adapted.

`Why is the teaching about the Second Coming so important to our faith? As we will study in lesson 10, death is the same as sleep. Without the Second Coming, would we have any hope for the future? Read what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15:15–18 for the answer.`