---
title:  Hoping And Waiting
date:   13/05/2024
---

The Protestants in the Middle Ages believed in the Second Coming. They taught that everyone on earth would see and hear Jesus come back. But as time passed, people changed their views. Popular preachers in the 1800s taught that Jesus was coming to start His kingdom on earth. Then we would have peace on earth for 1,000 years.

In the same way, Jesus’ 12 followers misunderstood the Bible teaching about His first coming. They thought Jesus would come as a powerful general to give the Jews freedom from Roman power. The Jews did not understand that Jesus came to make them free from sin and its penalty. So, they failed to understand what would happen when Jesus came.

`Read Acts 1:9–11; Revelation 1:7; and Matthew 24:27, 30, 31. What do these verses teach about the Second Coming?`

When Jesus came the first time as a baby, very few people knew about it. But when Jesus comes again, everyone will see Him. Everyone will hear the trumpet sound when He arrives. Every person on earth will see Jesus in all His shining glory. We do not need to be tricked. The Bible clearly teaches what will happen when Jesus comes back.

“One of the most wonderful Bible truths is the promise of the Second Coming. At that time, Jesus will come to finish His work to save us. The promise of the Second Coming fills God’s people with joy and hope. Jesus is life. He will wake His people up from the dead. The Second Coming is one of the most important teachings in the Bible. God’s children have waited for the Promised One ever since Adam and Eve were sent away from Eden. God’s people have waited for Jesus to come to end Satan’s power. Jesus will come to bring them back to the home they lost because of sin.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 299, adapted.

An early Adventist leader, Luther Warren, used to tell young people, “The only way to be ready for Jesus’ coming is to get ready and stay ready.” Yes, Jesus is coming soon. So, we must look inside our hearts and let go of anything that separates us from Jesus. The Second Coming helps us to live a holy life now so that we may be ready for Jesus.

`Read 1 Thessalonians 5:2–5 and Hebrews 9:28. What encouragement do these verses give us about the Second Coming?`