---
title:  The 2,300 Days of Daniel 8:14
date:   15/05/2024
---

William Miller saw that everything in the Bible happened just as God promised: Abraham’s future children lived in Egypt for 400 years (Genesis 15:13). Israel wandered for 40 years in the desert (Numbers 14:34). The Jews were taken prisoner to Babylon for 70 years (Jeremiah 25:11). And God promised Daniel that he would give Israel 70 weeks (Daniel 9:24) to choose to honor and serve Him.

`Read Mark 1:15; Galatians 4:4; and Romans 5:6. What do these verses tell us about when God’s promises happen?`

The Bible teaches us that God’s promises always happen right on time. William Miller learned this Bible truth as he studied. Miller compared verse with verse. He understood from his study of the Bible that God must have a special time for the Second Coming, too.

`Read Daniel 8:14. What does the Bible say will happen at the end of the 2,300 days?`

William Miller accepted the popular view about God’s temple. This view taught that God would clean his temple with fire. Miller studied the Bible to discover when this cleaning would happen. As Miller studied, he saw a connection between Daniel 9 and the dream in Daniel 8. In Daniel 8:16, the Lord tells his angel to help Daniel understand the dream. The only part of the dream the angel didn’t explain is the part about the 2,300 days (Daniel 8:27). Later, the angel came back and said, “ ‘Daniel, I have come to give you wisdom and to help you understand’ ” (Daniel 9:22, ERV; also read Daniel 9:23, 25–27). So, the angel came to help Daniel understand the 2,300 days.

How do we know? Because the first words that the angel says are, “ ‘God has allowed 70 weeks for your people and your holy city, Daniel’ ” (Daniel 9:24, ERV). The word written as “allowed” means “cut off.” So, 70 weeks, 490 years, will be cut off. Cut off from what? The answer is: cut off from the 2,300 days. That’s the only part of the dream that Daniel didn’t understand. The 70 weeks “will begin when an order is given to rebuild Jerusalem and make it like [the same as] new again” (Daniel 9:25, NIrV). With that date, Miller knew he could figure out when the 70 weeks and 2,300 days started.