---
title:  The Longest Timeline In The Bible
date:   16/05/2024
---

`Read Ezra 7:7–13. When did the king give the order for the Jews in Persia to go free and rebuild their temple?`

King Artaxerxes gave the command in 457 B.C. Artaxerxes was the king of Persia. His command was the third and final command that allowed the Jews to go home to rebuild Jerusalem and to worship in their temple again. This third command was more complete than the first two orders. So, the third command is when the 2,300 day/year special message about time starts (Daniel 8:14).

`When would the 2,300 years start? Read Daniel 9:25, 26 for the answer. What important things do these verses say will happen?`

Daniel says, “A command will come to rebuild Jerusalem. The time from this command until the appointed [chosen] leader comes will be 49 years and 434 years” (Daniel 9:25, ICB). (49 years + 434 years = 483 years.) King Artaxerxes gave the command in the fall of 457 B.C. So, the 483 years end in the fall of A.D. 27. The words “appointed leader” mean Jesus. In the fall of A.D. 27, Jesus was baptized with water and was filled with the Holy Spirit (Luke 3:21, 22; Acts 10:38). Then “Jesus went into Galilee and preached the Good News from God. Jesus said, ‘The right time has come. The kingdom of God is near’ ” (Mark 1:14, 15, ICB).

In the spring of A.D. 31, Jesus died on the cross. He died in the middle of the last week of Daniel’s special message about time (Daniel 9:25, 26). 3½ years after Jesus was baptized, He was nailed to the cross. All the animal offerings the Jews brought to the temple in the past were a symbol of Jesus. He was the Lamb that God offered for our sins on the cross.

`Read Daniel 9:27. How do the 70 weeks end?`

The 70 weeks, or 490 years, that God gave to the Jews, ended in A.D. 34. At that time, the Jewish leaders rejected the Good News message (Acts 6:8–7:60).

When we subtract 490 years from the 2,300-year time message, we get 1,810 years. The 1,810 years ended in A.D. 1844. William Miller and the early Adventists believed that the temple in Daniel 8:14 was the earth. They believed that Jesus would come and clean the earth with fire in 1844.