---
title:  He Died for Us
date:  02/11/2022
---

`Read John 3:14–18 and Romans 6:23. What do these verses teach that Christ’s death has accomplished for us?`

When Jesus arrived at the Jordan River to be baptized, John the Baptist exclaimed, “ ‘Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world!’ ” (John 1:29, NKJV). This statement acknowledged Christ as the antitypical Lamb of God to whom all true sacrifices of the Old Testament pointed.

But animal sacrifices could not take away sins by themselves (Heb. 10:4). They provided only conditional forgiveness dependent on the effectiveness of Christ’s future sacrifice on the cross. “If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness” (1 John 1:9, NKJV).

`Read John 3:16, 17. What great hope can we take from these verses, especially when we rightly sense that we deserve to be condemned for something that we have done?`

Think about what all this means. Jesus, the One who created the cosmos (John 1:1–3), offered Himself for each of us, a sacrifice for sins, all so that we don’t have to be condemned for what we could justly be condemned for. This is the great promise of the gospel.

Jesus Christ declared that “ ‘God so loved the world that he gave his only Son’ ” to die for us (John 3:16, NRSV). But we should never forget that Christ offered Himself voluntarily on our behalf (Heb. 9:14). Martin Luther referred to the cross as “the altar on which He [Christ], consumed by the fire of the boundless love which burned in His heart, presented the living and holy sacrifice of His body and blood to the Father with fervent intercession, loud cries, and hot, anxious tears (Heb. 5:7).”—_Luther’s Works, vol. 13_ (St. Louis, MO: Concordia Publishing House, 1956), p. 319. Christ died once for all (Heb. 10:10) and once forever (Heb. 10:12), for His sacrifice is all-sufficient and never loses its power.

And there’s more: “If but one soul would have accepted the gospel of His grace, Christ would, to save that one, have chosen His life of toil and humiliation and His death of shame.”—Ellen G. White, _The Ministry of Healing_, p. 135.

`Read again John 3:16, replacing the words “the world” and “whoever” with your own name. How can you learn, moment by moment, especially when tempted to sin, to make this wonderful promise yours?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ on the cross, not only draws men to repentance toward God for the transgression of His law—for whom God pardons He first makes penitent—but Christ has satisfied justice; He has proffered Himself as an atonement. His gushing blood, His broken body, satisfy the claims of the broken law, and thus He bridges the gulf which sin has made. He suffered in the flesh that with His bruised and broken body He might cover the defenseless sinner. The victory gained at His death on Calvary broke forever the accusing power of Satan over the universe, and silenced his charges that self-denial was impossible with God and therefore not essential in the human family.<br/>
All who will can be overcomers. Let us strive earnestly to reach the standard set before us. Christ knows our weakness, and to Him we can go daily for help. It is not necessary for us to gain strength a month ahead. We are to conquer from day to day.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 7_, p. 974.

It was to redeem us that Jesus lived and suffered and died. He became “a Man of Sorrows,” that we might be made partakers of everlasting joy. God permitted His beloved Son, full of grace and truth, to come from a world of indescribable glory, to a world marred and blighted with sin, darkened with the shadow of death and the curse. He permitted Him to leave the bosom of His love, the adoration of the angels, to suffer shame, insult, humiliation, hatred, and death. . . . The spotless Son of God took upon Himself the burden of sin. He who had been one with God, felt in His soul the awful separation that sin makes between God and man. This wrung from His lips the anguished cry, “My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?” Matthew 27:46. It was the burden of sin, the sense of its terrible enormity, of its separation of the soul from God—it was this that broke the heart of the Son of God.<br/>
But this great sacrifice was not made in order to create in the Father’s heart a love for man, not to make Him willing to save. No, no! “God so loved the world, that He gave His only-begotten Son.” John 3:16. The Father loves us, not because of the great propitiation, but He provided the propitiation because He loves us. Christ was the medium through which He could pour out His infinite love upon a fallen world. “God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto Himself.” 2 Corinthians 5:19. God suffered with His Son. In the agony of Gethsemane, the death of Calvary, the heart of Infinite Love paid the price of our redemption.—_Steps to Christ_, p. 13.