---
title:  The Meaning of the Cross
date:  03/11/2022
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 1:18–24. What is Paul saying about the Cross, and how does he contrast it with the “wisdom of the world”? Why, even today, when “materialism” (the idea that all reality is only material, which means there is no God or supernatural realm of existence) dominates “the wisdom of the world,” is the message of the Cross so important?`

The Cross of Christ is the very center of salvation history. “Eternity can never fathom the depth of love revealed in the cross of Calvary. It was there that the infinite love of Christ and the unbounded selfishness of Satan stood face to face.”—Stephen N. Haskell, The Cross and Its Shadow (South Lancaster, MA: Bible Training School, 1914), p. v.

While Christ was humbly offering Himself as a ransom for the human race, Satan was selfishly engulfing Him in suffering and agony. Christ did not die just the natural death that every human being has to face. He died the second death, so that all those who accept Him will never have to experience it for themselves.

In regard to the meaning of the Cross, there are several important aspects that we should remember. First, the Cross is the supreme revelation of God’s justice against sin (Rom. 3:21–26). Second, the Cross is the supreme revelation of God’s love for sinners (Rom. 5:8). Third, the Cross is the great source of power to break the chains of sin (Rom. 6:22, 23; 1 Cor. 1:17–24). Fourth, the Cross is our only hope of eternal life (Phil. 3:9–11; John 3:14–16; 1 John 5:11, 12). And fifth, the Cross is the only antidote against a future rebellion in the universe (Rev. 7:13–17, Rev. 22:3).

None of these crucial truths about the Cross can be discovered by the “wisdom of the world.” On the contrary, then, as now, the preaching of the Cross is “foolishness” to worldly wisdom, which often doesn’t even acknowledge the most obvious truth there could be: that a Creator exists (see Rom. 1:18–20).

The Greek word for “foolishness” is linked to the English word “moron”; that is, the preaching of the Cross is “moronic” according to the “wisdom of the world.” Worldly wisdom cannot know Jesus or the salvation that He offers us through His substitutionary death on the cross.

`Whatever value some “worldly wisdom” can offer, why must we never let it interfere with what we believe about Jesus and the hope we’re offered through “the foolishness of the message preached” (1 Cor. 1:21, NKJV)?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

By bearing the penalty of sin, by going down into the grave, Christ has brightened the tomb for all who die in faith. God in human form has brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. In dying, Christ secured eternal life for all who believe in Him. In dying, He condemned the originator of sin and disloyalty to suffer the penalty of sin—eternal death.<br/>
The possessor and giver of eternal life, Christ was the only one who could conquer death. He is our Redeemer.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 6, pp. 230, 231.

In his first display of disaffection Satan was very cunning. All he claimed was that he wanted to bring in a better order of things, to make great improvements. He led the holy pair away from God, away from their allegiance to His commandments, on the same point where thousands are tempted today and where thousands fall; that is, by their vain imaginings. True knowledge is divine. Satan insinuated into the minds of our first parents a desire for a speculative knowledge, whereby he declared they would greatly improve their condition; but in order to gain this, they must take a course contrary to God’s holy will; for God would not lead them to the greatest heights. It was not God’s purpose that they should obtain knowledge that had its foundation in disobedience. This was a broad field into which Satan was seeking to lead Adam and Eve, and it is the same field that he opens for the world today by his temptations.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 502.

“If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth.” Mark 9:23. It is faith that connects us with heaven and brings us strength for coping with the powers of darkness. In Christ, God has provided means for subduing every evil trait and resisting every temptation, however strong. But many feel that they lack faith, and therefore they remain away from Christ. Let these souls, in their helpless unworthiness, cast themselves upon the mercy of their compassionate Saviour. Look not to self, but to Christ. He who healed the sick and cast out demons when He walked among men is still the same mighty Redeemer. Then grasp His promises as leaves from the tree of life: “Him that cometh to Me I will in no wise cast out.” John 6:37. As you come to Him, believe that He accepts you, because He has promised. You can never perish while you do this—never.<br/>
“God commendeth His love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.” Romans 5:8.<br/>
And “if God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not with Him also freely give us all things?” Romans 8:31, 32.—The Ministry of Healing, pp. 65, 66.