---
title:  Further Thought
date:  04/11/2022
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Gethsemane,” pp. 685–697; “Calvary,” pp. 741–758, in _The Desire of Ages_; “Repentance,” p. 27, in Steps to Christ.

“I saw that all heaven is interested in our salvation; and shall we be indifferent? Shall we be careless, as though it were a small matter whether we are saved or lost? Shall we slight the sacrifice that has been made for us? Some have done this. They have trifled with offered mercy, and the frown of God is upon them. God’s Spirit will not always be grieved. It will depart if grieved a little longer. After all has been done that God could do to save men, if they show by their lives that they slight Jesus’ offered mercy, death will be their portion, and it will be dearly purchased. It will be a dreadful death; for they will have to feel the agony that Christ felt upon the cross to purchase for them the redemption which they have refused. And they will then realize what they have lost—eternal life and the immortal inheritance. The great sacrifice that has been made to save souls shows us their worth. When the precious soul is once lost, it is lost forever.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 1, p. 124.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Hebrews 10:4 says, “It is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins” (NIV). So, how were people saved in Old Testament times? How can the analogy of a credit card—which you use to make payments but later on have to pay for the credit card bill—help us better understand this subject?`

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:18–21. If Christ died for the sins of the whole world, why won’t everyone be saved? Why does personal choice play a crucial role in determining who will be saved by the Cross and who will be lost despite the great sacrifice made in their behalf?`

`What are some things that “worldly wisdom” teaches that are “foolishness” to God? What about the idea that all the incredi­ble design and beauty of the world is purely a chance creation? Or that the universe arose from absolutely nothing? What other examples can you think of?`

`Think about the final question on Tuesday’s study. What about the Cross, and what happened there, makes the idea of salvation by works so futile, so erroneous, and so contrary to the plan of salvation?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Lift Him Up, “Faith in the Atonement,” p. 331;<br/>
Steps to Christ, “Repentance,” p. 27.<br/>