---
title:  Reincarnation
date:  06/12/2022
---

The pagan notion of an immortal soul provides the foundation for the unbiblical theory of reincarnation or transmigration of the soul. This theory has been adopted by some major world religions. While most Christians believe in the existence of an immortal soul that abides in a permanent heaven or hell after death, those who believe in reincarnation hold that such an immortal soul goes through many cycles of death and rebirth here on earth.

For some, reincarnation is thought to be a process of spiritual evolution that allows the spirit to attain ever greater levels of knowledge and morality in its journey toward perfection. Hindus believe that the eternal soul goes through a progression of consciousness or “_samsara_” in six classes of life: aquatics, plants, reptiles and insects, birds, animals, and human beings, including the residents of heaven.

`Read Hebrews 9:25–28 and 1 Peter 3:18. If Jesus died just “once” (Heb. 9:28, 1 Pet. 3:18, NKJV) and likewise all human beings die just “once” (Heb. 9:27, NKJV), why do even some alleged Christians believe in some form of reincarnation?`

Many people believe not in what they _should_ believe but in what they _want_ to believe. If a theory brings them existential peace and comfort, that is enough to settle the discussion for them. But for those who take the Bible seriously, there is no way to accept the theory of reincarnation.

First, this theory contradicts the biblical teachings of the mortality of the “soul” and the resurrection of the body (1 Thess. 4:13–18).

Second, it negates the doctrine of salvation by grace through faith in the redemptive work of Jesus Christ (Eph. 2:8–10) and replaces it with human works.

Third, the theory contradicts the biblical teaching that one’s eternal destiny is decided forever by one’s decisions in this life (Matt. 22:1–14, Matt. 25:31–46).

Fourth, this theory downplays the meaning and relevance of Christ’s second coming (John 14:1–3).

And fifth, the theory proposes after-death opportunities for someone still to overcome his or her own life’s pitfalls, which is unbiblical (Heb. 9:27).

In short, there is no place for the idea of reincarnation in the Christian faith.---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Satan beguiles men now as he beguiled Eve in Eden by flattery, by kindling a desire to obtain forbidden knowledge, by exciting ambition for self-exaltation. It was cherishing these evils that caused his fall, and through them he aims to compass the ruin of men. “Ye shall be as gods,” he declares, “knowing good and evil.” Genesis 3:5. Spiritualism teaches “that man is the creature of progression; that it is his destiny from his birth to progress, even to eternity, toward the Godhead.” And again: “Each mind will judge itself and not another.” “The judgment will be right, because it is the judgment of self. . . . The throne is within you.” Said a spiritualistic teacher, as the “spiritual consciousness” awoke within him: “My fellow men, all were unfallen demigods.” And another declares: “Any just and perfect being is Christ.”<br/>
Thus, in place of the righteousness and perfection of the infinite God, the true object of adoration; in place of the perfect righteousness of His law, the true standard of human attainment, Satan has substituted the sinful, erring nature of man himself as the only object of adoration, the only rule of judgment, or standard of character. This is progress, not upward, but downward.—The Great Controversy, p. 554.

Satan was seeking to shut out from men a knowledge of God, to turn their attention from the temple of God, and to establish his own kingdom. His strife for supremacy had seemed to be almost wholly successful. It is true that in every generation God had His agencies. Even among the heathen there were men through whom Christ was working to uplift the people from their sin and degradation. But these men were despised and hated. Many of them suffered a violent death. The dark shadow that Satan had cast over the world grew deeper and deeper.<br/>
Through heathenism, Satan had for ages turned men away from God; but he won his great triumph in perverting the faith of Israel. By contemplating and worshiping their own conceptions, the heathen had lost a knowledge of God, and had become more and more corrupt. So it was with Israel. The principle that man can save himself by his own works lay at the foundation of every heathen religion; it had now become the principle of the Jewish religion. Satan had implanted this principle. Wherever it is held, men have no barrier against sin.—The Desire of Ages, p. 35.