---
title:  Rest And The Family
date:  31/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 34; Deuteronomy 4:29; Isaiah 43:1; Genesis 39:1–6; Genesis 39:21–40:22.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Dear friends, you already know about this. So be careful. Don’t let these evil people lead you away by the wrong they do. Be careful that you do not fall from your strong faith. But grow in the grace [loving favor] and knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Gory be to him, now and forever! Amen” (2 Peter 3:17, 18, ERV).

THE YOUNG MAN carefully looks across the countryside. Finally, he sees his older brothers. The young man has searched for them for many days. He is happy to find his brothers at last! The young man runs to them. He waves and shouts their names. The brothers look at the young man. Hate fills their eyes. The only reason we even know anything at all about this story is because of Reuben. Reuben tells his brothers not to kill Joseph. The brothers should only beat up Joseph a little bit. Then they should throw him in a well. Later, Judah comes up with a plan for the brothers to get rid of their little brother for good. They can make some money while they get rid of him too! So, the brothers sell Joseph to some slave traders who travel by.

This family is messed-up, for sure! We get to choose many things in life. But not our family. Our family connections are often painful. These bad connections can make us feel hurt, worn out, and in need of rest. How can we find rest and peace in our families? This week we look at the story of Joseph and his family. We shall see how God finally heals this family and brings them rest and peace.