---
title:  Trouble At Home 
date:  01/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Dinah in Genesis 34. Joseph is a young boy when this story happens. How do you think this story makes the family of Joseph feel? How do you think this story makes young Joseph himself feel?`

Leah and Rachel are sisters. They are married to the same man, Jacob. They fight against each other for Jacob. Later, we can see this same spirit of fighting in the ten older sons of Jacob. When they are young men, the brothers kill all the men in the town of Shechem. Then the oldest son, Reuben, sleeps with Bilhah, who is the maid of Rachel and one of the wives of Jacob. Bilhah is the mother of some of the sons of Jacob (Genesis 35:22). Then Judah, another one of the sons of Jacob, sleeps with his daughter-in-law Tamar. Tamar tricks Judah. Judah believes she is a woman who sells sex for pay. They have twin boys (Genesis 38).

Jacob makes the problems in his family worse. He shows favor to Joseph by giving him an expensive coat (Genesis 37:3). This gift makes all the brothers jealous. Then they hate Joseph. For sure, this family has a lot of problems!

`Read part of the list of heroes of faith in Hebrews 11:17–22. Do you see that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are in this list of Bible heroes? Think about all their family problems. These men made a lot of mistakes, right? So, why do you think Paul includes these men in his list of faith heroes in Hebrews 11?`

The people that God chooses to serve Him often make awful mistakes in life. Paul does not include Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in Hebrews 11 because they are perfect. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob often learned the hard way about faith, love, and trust in God. They made many mistakes along the way. So, the list in Hebrews 11 should give us hope. The list shows that God does not fail His children. He never stops trying to save them.

`What problems do you have in your own family? For sure, we cannot change the past. But how can giving yourself fully to the Lord and His ways right now help make things better for your family in the future?`