---
title:  Choosing A New Direction 
date:  02/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Joseph has been sold into slavery. Now he is on his way to Egypt. The men who buy Joseph travel south. They pass near the land of Canaan. Joseph can see the hills where the tents of his father are. Jacob will be lonely without Joseph and will suffer much. Joseph cries when he thinks about his loving father. Joseph thinks about what his brothers did to him at Dothan. Joseph sees his angry brothers. He remembers the unkind looks his brothers gave him. Joseph asked them to not sell him into slavery. But his brothers answer him with insults. The heart of Joseph is filled with fear as he thinks about the future. His life has changed so much! Before, he was a beloved son. Now he is a helpless slave that no one cares about. Joseph is alone. He has no friends. What is going to happen to him in the strange land where he goes? For a time, Joseph lets the fear and sad feelings in his heart control him. . . .

“Then Joseph thinks about the God of his father. When Joseph was a child, Jacob taught Joseph to love and obey God. Often Joseph sat in the tent of his father. He heard his father tell the story about the dream that Jacob saw when he ran away from home. . . . Now Joseph remembers all these precious lessons. Joseph believes that the God of his fathers will be his God. Joseph gives himself fully to the Lord. He prays that the God of Israel will be with him in Egypt.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 213, 214, adapted.

As we see from this quote, Joseph starts to find rest during his journey to Egypt as a slave. Joseph starts to make peace with the past. He can do this because he makes a personal decision to follow God. This decision gives Joseph strength. So, that is why he can find rest.

`Read Deuteronomy 4:29; Joshua 24:15; 1 Chronicles 16:11; Psalm 14:2; Proverbs 8:10; and Isaiah 55:6. What do these verses teach us about giving ourselves to God? Why do we each need to make a personal choice to follow Him?`

Do you want rest and peace? Then you must make a personal decision to follow God the same as Joseph. Maybe your parents or grandparents had a lot of faith. But faith is not something we get from our parents in the same way we get their blue eyes or black hair. Remember, God has only children, and no grandchildren.