---
title:  Finding Real Self-Worth 
date:  03/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When Joseph arrives in Egypt, he is sold again. Genesis 39:1 tells us that the traders who bought Joseph sell him “to the captain of Pharaoh’s guard, Potiphar” (Genesis 39:1, ERV). Joseph is now in a strange new land.

The close family friendships we have growing up are important. Our families help us to know that our lives are important and worth something. Joseph grew up believing he was special. He was the oldest son of the best-loved wife of his father Jacob (Genesis 29:18). Joseph is the favorite child of his father, too. He is the only child that Joseph gave a coat of many colors to (Genesis 37:3, 4).

But who is Joseph now? He is a slave. His owners can sell him whenever they want. Look at how fast his whole life changes. Life has turned on him, right?

Joseph learns the lesson we all must learn. We will have a tough time in life if we depend on other people to tell us how much we are worth. We will be confused, because not everyone will care about us or who we are. So, we need to know our worth comes from what God thinks about us.

`How does God see each one of us? For the answer, read Isaiah 43:1; Malachi 3:17; John 1:2; John 15:15; Romans 8:14; and 1 John 3:1, 2.`

God looks at each us with love and mercy. God sees in us beauty, talent, and skills that we cannot even begin to see! God died for us so that we can get the chance to become everything He meant for us to be. When we look at the Cross, we see this Bible truth. Yes, the Cross shows us that we are sinners. The Cross also shows us the big price God paid to save us. At the same time, the Cross also shows us our worth and value to God. God loves us and wants to save us, even if no one else believes we are worth saving. God wants to save us from the power of sin now and from the everlasting death that sin brings.

So, now that we know all these things, the question you must ask yourself is: What answer will you give God for the love that He shows you in Jesus Christ?

`Many people tell us today to love ourselves as we are and not to judge ourselves. But why is this love really a lie? Why must our worth come from outside us and from the One who made us?`