---
title:  Honoring God At All Costs 
date:  04/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

At first, the story about Joseph in Egypt starts out well. Joseph give his life to God. God blesses Joseph in his work as the manager of the house of Potiphar.

`In what ways do you see God blessing the life of Joseph in the house of Potiphar? What about the connections that Joseph has with the people he works with? Are they good or bad? Explain. For the answers, read Genesis 39:1–6.`

Joseph gets along with Potiphar very well. Joseph gets along with his co-workers on the job, too. But trouble soon comes his way. Someone at home has no rest.

`What problem does Joseph soon have at home? How does he choose to manage this problem? For the answer, read Genesis 39:7–10.`

Joseph has a problem with the wife of Potiphar. Maybe we should say this again in a way that is more correct: the wife of Potiphar has a problem. A big one. She looks at people as “things” she can use. She wants to “use” Joseph. The Bible tells us that “Joseph was a very handsome, good-looking man” (Genesis 39:6, ERV). The Bible often does not talk about how good people look. Why? Because “ ‘people judge by what is on the outside, but the LORD looks at the heart’ ” (1 Samuel 16:7, ERV).

What does Joseph do? How does he answer the evil behavior and wishes of the wife of Potiphar? Joseph obeys the Bible. He follows the important rules of the Word of God in all his connections with people on the job. Bible rules are not old-fashioned. Anyone who has suffered from the choice to sin can tell us that.

The Bible story about Joseph show us that the wife of Potiphar does not try to get Joseph to sin only one time. No, the wife of Potiphar tries to get Joseph to sin with her again and again. Joseph tries to explain to her why he cannot do what she wants him to do (Genesis 39:8, 9). But this plan does not really work out well for Joseph.

Joseph understands that he cannot control the behavior of other people. He decides to live, love, and trust the people around him in a way that honors God. Joseph has learned to live as if God is with him every second. This knowledge helps Joseph say no to sin.