---
title:  The War Between Good And Evil In The Life Of Joseph 
date:  05/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Genesis 39:11–20 tells us that Joseph suffers because he will not sin with the wife of Potiphar. Joseph is thrown into prison. Because Joseph is the slave of Potiphar, Potiphar can kill Joseph in an instant. We can see that Potiphar does not believe his wife. So why does Potiphar throw Joseph in jail? Because Potiphar must take action. He must protect his good name and his honor, even if his wife is lying. Even after all this happens, the Bible tells us, “the LORD was with Joseph” (Genesis 39:21, KJV).

Life on planet earth is not fair. People do not always get rewarded for their good behavior. Evil is not always punished right away. But there is some good news for Joseph: he can find rest, even in prison. God is with him. Sure, Joseph can think about how bad his life is and how it is not very fair. He can even give up on God. But does he?

`What does Joseph do when he is in prison? How does he behave around other people? What type of person does he show them he is? For the answers, read Genesis 39:21–40:22.`

In prison, Joseph helps other people. Joseph also asks for help when he needs it. He asks the cup bearer of the king of Egypt for help. A cup bearer tastes the wine of the king before he drinks it to make sure it is safe to drink. While the cupbearer is in prison, he has a dream. Joseph tells the cupbearer the meaning of his dream. Then he asks the cupbearer to help him when he is free.

`What does Paul tell us is the reason for the troubles and suffering in all our friendships and close connections with people? For the answer, read Ephesians 6:1–13.`

Our friendships show the worldwide war between God and Satan. This war has been happening since humans sinned. This means that there are no perfect friendships or families. Satan does his best to use all our close friendships and family connections to hurt us and to stop the plan of God for our lives. We can be thankful that God does not leave us to fight against Satan on our own. The Bible shows us how to have good and healthy friendships. God promises to give us wisdom (James 1:5) and to be with us when things get difficult.