---
title:  Further Thought
date:  06/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Ellen White has this to say about Joseph and wife of Potiphar: “Joseph is an example to everyone who shall live on the earth. . . . God will be our Helper when we are in need. The Spirit of God is the same as a shield that protects us. There may be things all around us that cause us to want to sin. But we have a God who can give us strength to say no to sin. The attack of Satan on the heart and mind of Joseph was awful. But Joseph said no to sin right away. He stayed firm and strong in his decision not to sin. . . . Joseph trusted his life and his honor to God. Sure, Joseph suffered for a time. But this suffering was meant to help Joseph get ready for more important work later on. God kept the name and the honor of Joseph safe. Later, God showed everyone that Joseph was innocent. God made the prison a part of His plan to save Joseph. This story shows us that, in time, God will reward our being loyal to Him. Joseph had a shield that covered his heart. This shield was obedience to God. Obedience made Joseph loyal to his master and to God. Joseph refused to hurt his master by sinning with his wife. Joseph hated that sin because it showed no thankfulness to his master. Potiphar may never learn what really happened or know that Joseph was deeply loyal to him. Even so, Joseph refuses to hurt his master and get away with sinning against him in secret.”—Ellen G. White, The Spirit of Prophecy, volume 1, page 132, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Sister Anne has just joined the church. Her husband is not a Christian. Anne loves her husband. But he does not love the changes he sees in her. What advice can you give her from the Bible to help her have hope and healing in her marriage?`

`All families have problems, some more than others. All families are made of sinners. So, each of us brings our problems into our families. How can each one of us follow the Bible rules of love, forgiveness, and helping each other carry our heavy loads and problems? How can doing these things help bring healing to our families and friendships?`

`Many people have this experience: things are going well for them and their families. Then all the sudden, disaster happens. When this happens, why must we trust more than ever in Bible promises? Why must we be ready for bad times, even when times are good?`