---
title:  The Dangers Of Pride
date:   12/04/2026
---

Pride. What picture do you make in your mind when you think about this word? Do you see a government leader? A rich or famous person? A peacock? When you feel pride in your heart, you feel more important or better than other people. For sure, pride is a feeling we shouldn’t trust.

Pride first started with Lucifer. God announces to Lucifer, “ ‘You were one of the chosen Cherubs [angels] who spread your wings over my throne’ ” (Ezekiel 28:14, ERV). Lucifer worked close to God in heaven. We don’t know when or how selfish thoughts entered Lucifer’s heart. But we do know that these selfish thoughts caused war in heaven. This war is named the war between good and evil. Lucifer became Satan, God’s enemy. Satan is fully different from God. (Compare Isaiah 14:12–14 and Philippians 2:5–11.) Satan caused Adam and Eve to doubt God and to love and trust self. Since that time, we’ve fought against sin on this earth.

`Read 1 John 2:15–17. What three important Bible truths do these verses teach you about pride and loving this life?`

Can pride or feeling proud be a good thing? Maybe, if we use the word to talk about something that someone else did well. Then we may say, “I’m so proud of you!” God gave each person skills, talents, and gifts. When we use or develop these skills, that doesn’t mean we are filled with pride. The Bible talks about self-love that is good. (Think about Jesus’ command in Mark 12:31. In this verse, Jesus tells us to love other people as we love ourselves. But the love that Jesus is talking about is never selfish.) People are also not filled with pride when God is in their hearts. They live for Him (read 1 Timothy 3:1). But people are filled with pride when they don’t honor or praise God for what He does for them.

We must remember that our belongings, skills, and our work doesn’t give us worth or value in God’s eyes. Our value and worth must come from God. All that we own comes from Him anyway. We must always remember this important Bible truth (read 1 Chronicles 29:14).

`Ask yourself: How much pride do I have in my heart? How is personal pride hurting my relationship with God and other people?`