---
title:  "Moses: A Man With No Pride In His Heart"
date:   14/04/2026
---

The Egyptian palace where Moses lived was filled with riches, pleasure, and comforts. The Bible says, “Moses had teachers who taught him all the wise things that the Egyptians knew. He learned how to speak well. He could also do power­ful things” (Acts 7:22, EASY). Moses was offered a life of power, riches, and fame. But he chose something different. “Moses was a history expert, poet, thinker, army general, and government leader. He was excellent in everything he did. But Moses had the strength to refuse the money and fame. ‘Moses chose to join with God’s people. He chose to receive [accept a life filled with] trouble and pain together with them. He did not want to live in the king’s house and do wrong things. He would only be happy for a short time there.’ [Hebrews 11:25, EASY].”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 246, adapted.

`What does Hebrews 11:24–26 tell us about Moses? Why did he choose to empty his heart of all pride to serve God?`

Moses’ choice is amazing. He was a very powerful man who came from the most powerful country on earth at the time. But Moses killed an Egyptian (Exodus 2:12). Then he lost his faith in his own wisdom and strength. With his heart now empty of all pride, Moses was ready to learn. For 40 years, God taught Moses everything he needed to know to lead God’s people from slavery into the Promised Land. The things Moses left in Egypt couldn’t be compared with God’s promise of heaven and everlasting life.

Numbers 12:3 tells us: “Now Moses was a man with no pride, more so than any man on the earth” (NLV). Moses was one of the most important leaders of God’s people in the Bible. What would have happened if Moses had pride in his heart? How would the stories of his life be different? The burning bush? The ten troubles of Egypt? Crossing the Red Sea? Bread falling from heaven? The Ten Commandments?

`Think about your life. Do you think people would say you had no pride in your heart? Yes or no? Explain. We need Jesus to empty our hearts of all pride. Read or sing the hymn, “I’d Rather Have Jesus” (The Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal, no. 327). How does Moses’ life show the message of this song? How much does your own life show it?`