---
title:  Look At Jesus
date:   16/04/2026
---

`Read Luke 22:27 again. What is the most important message for all of Jesus’ followers in this verse?`

Compare Jesus with His 12 followers who wanted to be first and the most important in God’s kingdom. Jesus was the most perfect example of someone whose heart was empty of all pride. Jesus said, “ ‘Which man [or who] is greater [more important], the man who sits at the table or the man who helps him? Is it not the man who sits at the table? But I am like [the same as] the man who helps you’ ” (Luke 22:27, WE). Every day, Jesus helped people in need around Him. Jesus was filled with love and mercy for the people. They were the same as sheep without a shepherd. Jesus knew that people needed Him more than anything else in life. To help people understand His love and mercy, Jesus left heaven to die for sinners. He hoped we would accept His invitation to be in a relationship with Him.

`Jesus died for us on the cross. So, how should we live? What does Philippians 2:3–8 tell us is the answer?`

Jesus did everything for us. He accepted our sins and our punishment. When we look at Jesus, we see that our hearts are filled with sin. Our hearts are dirty and not clean at all. When we think about what Jesus did for us, we can’t help seeing that we need Him so very much today.

When we look at Jesus, everything else becomes less important. Who Jesus is, what He did for us, and His love for us become the most important things in life. Self will lose its control over us when we look at Jesus. Jesus! His name is beautiful and mighty. Jesus is the best example of everything we should be. Jesus has no pride in His heart. When we open our hearts to Jesus, we will learn more about Him. Then we will understand and allow His words of life to fill our minds. We will see that we are really filled with so much pride and sin. We will see we are miserable and unhappy without Jesus. We can grow in our relationship with Jesus when we empty our hearts of all pride.

`Spend time with Jesus right now. Take your Bible, a pen, and a notebook. Sit somewhere quiet, maybe outside. Invite God to talk to your heart. Write out Psalm 138. As you write, what words have special meaning to you?`