---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   17/04/2026
---

“When we come close to Jesus, we will clearly see His love. His love is holy. We also will see that sin is very evil. Then we won’t want to praise ourselves. God shows His favor to people who don’t show off or brag about their good behavior. The people with no pride in their hearts are holy in God’s eyes.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 160, adapted.

“If you want to be honored, you must first empty your heart of all pride. God will choose workers who are the same as John the Baptist. John had no pride in his heart. He chose to be God’s servant. The best followers of Jesus are men and women who are innocent as children. These followers can do excellent work for God. Angels can work with people who are not bragging about self. These workers want to save other people for God’s kingdom. . . .

“Some people brag and praise their own good behavior. These people believe that God’s plan can’t succeed without them. The Lord will choose other people to work with Him. . . .

“Jesus taught His followers about what they needed to do to be part of His kingdom. More than that, they needed a change of heart. A new heart would help them to be in agreement with the important rules of God’s kingdom. . . . God loves little children because they don’t think about self. They love and trust Him. . . .

“Honest Christians who are sorry for their sins are precious in God’s eyes. God honors them. God doesn’t honor people for their wealth or fame or because they are popular. He doesn’t honor people because they are very smart. He honors the people who are the most like, or the same as, Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 436, 437, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Read Matthew 23:12; Psalm 25:9; Psalm 149:4; and James 4:6, 10. What do these verses teach us about pride and not having any in our hearts?`

`When was the last time you showed off or bragged about yourself? How did this change your relationship with God and other people?`

`What must you change in your life to improve your relationship with God? What thoughts and feelings of pride must you empty from your heart?`