---
title:  I Have Given You an Example
date:  01/12/2024
---

The farewell discourse (John 13–17) provides instruction for Jesus’ disciples concerning the future. Its literary pattern is similar to Moses’ farewell in Deuteronomy or Jacob’s blessing his children (Genesis 47–49) or David’s instructing Solomon (1 Chronicles 28, 29). Jesus consoles His disciples regarding His departure. He promises a surrogate to represent Him (the Holy Spirit; John 14–16). He predicts grief to come (John 15, 16), and He exhorts the disciples to stay faithful (John 15).

`Read John 13:1–20. What happened here, and why is this story so important? What lessons did Jesus seek to teach?`

In that part of the world in Jesus’ day, people wore sandals or went barefoot. The feet would become dusty and dirty. It was a custom for a servant or slave to wash the feet of those coming to a meal. But no servant was present for this function on the night Jesus ate His last meal with His disciples before His arrest.

To everyone’s surprise, Jesus Himself arose from the supper and washed all of their feet. John 13:4, 5 tells Jesus’ actions step by step. It is told in such detail to emphasize the Master’s doing this unbelievable act of humility.

By telling about Peter’s response, John 13:8–11 deepens the sense of dismay and incomprehension of the disciples at Jesus’ actions. How could Jesus, the Master, the Messiah, be doing such a lowly task? Peter refused to allow Jesus to wash his feet, only to be told by Jesus that if he did not cooperate, he would have no part with Jesus. Then Peter asked for more, expressing his desire to be connected with Jesus all the way.

The significance of Jesus’ action is tied to who He is. He states in John 13:13 that He is the Teacher and the Lord. That is what they called Him, and He indicates that it is so. These titles express authority and power.

Yet, Jesus teaches that power and authority are to be used for service, not for self-aggrandizement. The Adventist Church has embraced this sense of Jesus’ example, taking what is rightly called the Ordinance of Humility as a preparatory service for the Lord’s Supper.

`What does the Ordinance of Humility teach you about following in the footsteps of Jesus and how to humbly serve others?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ gave His disciples to understand that the washing of their feet did not cleanse away their sin, but that the cleansing of their heart was tested in this humble service. If the heart was cleansed, this act was all that was essential to reveal the fact. He had washed the feet of Judas; but He said, “Ye are not all clean.” Judas brought a traitor’s heart to this scene, and Christ revealed to all that He knew him to be the betrayer of his Lord, and that the washing of his feet was not an ordinance to cleanse the soul from its moral defilement. . . .\
And we have, in His example, the lesson that the ordinance of feet-washing is not to be deferred because there are some professed believers who are not cleansed from their sins. Christ knew the heart of Judas, yet He washed his feet. Infinite love could do no more to bring Judas to repentance, and save him from taking this fatal step. . . . It was the last act of love that Jesus could evidence in behalf of Judas. Infinite love could not compel Judas to repent, confess his sin, and be saved. Every opportunity was granted him. Nothing was left undone that could be done to save him from the snare of Satan.—The Review and Herald, June 14, 1898, par. 7, 10.

The ordinance of feet washing is an ordinance of service. This is the lesson the Lord would have all learn and practice. When this ordinance is rightly celebrated, the children of God are brought into holy relationship with each other, to help and bless each other.\
That His people might not be misled by the selfishness which dwells in the natural heart, and which strengthens by self-serving, Christ Himself set us an example of humility. He would not leave this great subject in man’s charge. Of so much consequence did He regard it that He Himself, One equal with God, washed the feet of His disciples [John 13:13–17 quoted].—Ellen G. White Comments, in The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 5, p. 1138.

When Jesus girded Himself with a towel to wash the dust from [the disciples] feet, He desired by that very act to wash the alienation, jealousy, and pride from their hearts. This was of far more consequence than the washing of their dusty feet. With the spirit they then had, not one of them was prepared for communion with Christ. Until brought into a state of humility and love, they were not prepared to partake of the paschal supper, or to share in the memorial service which Christ was about to institute. Their hearts must be cleansed. Pride and self-seeking create dissension and hatred, but all this Jesus washed away in washing their feet. A change of feeling was brought about. Looking upon them, Jesus could say, “Ye are clean.” Now there was union of heart, love for one another. They had become humble and teachable. Except Judas, each was ready to concede to another the highest place. Now with subdued and grateful hearts they could receive Christ’s words.—The Desire of Ages, p. 646.