---
title:  I Will Certainly Come Again
date:  02/12/2024
---

`Read John 14:1–3. In what context did Jesus say these words?`

At the end of John 13, Jesus says that He is going away (John 13:33). This elicits from Peter a query about where He is going (John 13:36). The disciples do not understand that Jesus is talking about His death, resurrection, and ascension. Peter says he is ready to lay down his life for Him (John 13:37). This is when Jesus predicts Peter’s denial (John 13:38).

It is in this context that Jesus tells His disciples not to let their hearts be troubled (John 14:1). The verb _troubled_ is translated in Greek as tarassō, which means to stir up, disturb, unsettle, throw into confusion. It is not surprising that the disciples would be thrown into confusion at Jesus’ words.

But, countering their fears, He talks about His Father’s house, where there are many rooms (not mansions but rooms as in an inn). He is going there to prepare a place for them. His words look beyond the coming storm of the cross to the time when He will return to redeem His people. He is looking to the time when this whole tragedy with sin is finished once and for all (see Dan. 7:27).

Jesus says, “ ‘If I go . . . , I will come again and receive you to Myself, that where I am, there you may be also’ ” (John 14:3, NKJV). It is clearly a promise of His second coming.

What is the basis for confidence in that promise? Many would say the fulfillment of Bible prophecy, and that is certainly true. But in John 14:3, the basis is stated differently. In this verse, I will come is actually in the present tense in Greek (I am coming). This is a use of the present tense in Greek called the futuristic present. It is a future event spoken of with such certainty that it is described as though already happening. Thus, it is fair to translate the phrase as, I will certainly come again.

The basis of our hope in the return of our Lord is not simply the fulfillment of Bible prophecy. It is also, and more certainly, based on our confidence in the Man who made the promise. He said He will certainly return for His people. We can place our confidence in that promise because of Who made it.

`What does the Cross teach us about the certainty of Christ’s second coming? Without the Second Coming, what good did Jesus’ death do us at the first coming?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Little children,” [Christ] said, “Yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek Me: and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come; so now I say to you.”\
The disciples could not rejoice when they heard this. Fear fell upon them. They pressed close about the Saviour. . . . Dark were the forebodings that filled their hearts.\
But the Saviour’s words to them were full of hope. He knew that they were to be assailed by the enemy, and that Satan’s craft is most successful against those who are depressed by difficulties. Therefore He pointed them away from “the things which are seen,” to “the things which are not seen.” 2 Corinthians 4:18. From earthly exile He turned their thoughts to the heavenly home.\
“Let not your heart be troubled,” He said; “ye believe in God, believe also in Me. In My Father’s house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto Myself; that where I am, there ye may be also. And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know.” . . . The object of Christ’s departure was the opposite of what the disciples feared. It did not mean a final separation. He was going to prepare a place for them, that He might come again, and receive them unto Himself. While He was building mansions for them, they were to build charac­ters after the divine similitude.—The Desire of Ages, pp. 662, 663.

Peter kept alive in his heart the hope of Christ’s return, and he assured the church of the certain fulfillment of the Saviour’s promise, “If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto Myself.” John 14:3. To the tried and faithful ones the coming might seem long delayed, but the apostle assured them: “The Lord is not slack concerning His promise, as some men count slackness; but is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.”—The Acts of the Apostles, p. 536.\
In the contemplation of Christ we linger on the shore of a love that is measureless. We endeavor to tell of this love, and language fails us. We consider His life on earth, His sacrifice for us, His work in heaven as our advocate, and the mansions He is preparing for those who love Him, and we can only exclaim, O the height and depth of the love of Christ! “Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that He loved us, and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins.” “Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God.” 1 John 4:10; 3:1.—The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 333, 334.