---
title:  I Am the Way, the Truth, and the Life
date:  03/12/2024
---

`Read John 14:5, 6. What query did Thomas make about where Jesus was going? How did Jesus respond?`

Thomas’s query seems logical enough. If you do not know where someone is going, how can you know the way to follow that person? Jesus upends the query by indicating that He Himself is the way. The way to what? The way to the Father. In the Prologue (John 1:1–18), the intimate connection between the Word (logos), Jesus Christ, and the Father is emphasized.

John 1:18 says that the only begotten (better translated here as _unique_) God is the One who has made the Father known. _To make known_ in this text is the Greek verb exēgeomai, meaning to explain, interpret, exposit. We get the word _exegesis_ from this. It means to bring out the meaning. Thus, Jesus Christ is the link to the Father, the One who explains or interprets the Father to a fallen world. Consequently, He is the way or path to the Father. Without Him, we are limited in our understanding.

`Read John 14:7–11. How did Jesus clear up Philip’s misunderstanding?`

Philip asked to see the Father, something no sinful human can do and live (compare with Exod. 33:17–34:9, John 1:18). Jesus reproves the lack of understanding and points out that if you have seen Him, you have seen the Father (John 14:9). Consequently, it is clear that Jesus is the pathway to God. Without Him, the pathway grows dark and uncertain. He is the light that illuminates the way to God.

Jesus ties together three terms: _way_, _truth_, and _life_. The term _way_ is used only in John 1:23 regarding John the Baptist’s preparing the way for Jesus, and it is used here in John 14:6. But _truth_ and _life_ are major themes in the Gospel. Our study on Wednesday and Thursday will emphasize the concept of _truth_, a crucial topic, especially in a world where the very idea of “truth” is called into question.

`Why is it so comforting to realize that Jesus is the best revelation we will have here of what God the Father is like?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The disciples were perplexed. Thomas, always troubled by doubts, said, “Lord, we know not whither Thou goest; and how can we know the way? Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life; no man cometh unto the Father, but by Me. If ye had known Me, ye should have known My Father also: and from henceforth ye know Him, and have seen Him.”\
There are not many ways to heaven. Each one may not choose his own way. Christ says, “I am the way: . . . no man cometh unto the Father, but by Me.” Since the first gospel sermon was preached, when in Eden it was declared that the seed of the woman should bruise the serpent’s head, Christ had been uplifted as the way, the truth, and the life. He was the way when Adam lived, when Abel presented to God the blood of the slain lamb, representing the blood of the Redeemer. Christ was the way by which patriarchs and ­prophets were saved. He is the way by which alone we can have access to God.—The Desire of Ages, p. 663.

“Lord, show us the Father,” said Philip, “and it sufficeth us. Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known Me, Philip? he that hath seen Me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Show us the Father? Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in Me?” . . . John 14:1–10.\
The disciples did not yet understand Christ’s words concerning His relation to God. Much of His teaching was still dark to them. Christ desired them to have a clearer, more distinct knowledge of God. . . .\
When, on the Day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit was poured out on the disciples, they understood more fully the truths that Christ had spoken in parables. Much of the teaching that had been a mystery to them was made clear. But not even then did the disciples receive the complete fulfillment of Christ’s promise. They received all the knowledge of God that they could bear, but the complete fulfillment of the promise that Christ would show them plainly of the Father was yet to come. Thus it is today. Our knowledge of God is partial and imperfect. When the conflict is ended, and the Man Christ Jesus acknowledges before the Father His faithful workers, who in a world of sin have borne true witness for Him, they will understand clearly what now are mysteries to them.—The Ministry of Healing, p. 420.

When Jesus said, “I am the way, the truth, and the life,” he uttered a truth of wonderful significance. The transgression of man had separated earth from heaven, and finite man from the infinite God. . . . Jesus bridged this gulf, and made a way for man to come to God.—The Review and Herald, November 11, 1890, par. 5.