---
title:  FORGERS (MAKERS; CREATORS) OF LIES
date:   20/11/2016
---

### FORGERS (MAKERS; CREATORS) OF LIES

(Job 13:1–14)

“We think even a foolish person is wise if he keeps silent [quiet]. We think he understands what is right if he controls his tongue” (Proverbs 17:28, NIrV).

Whatever a person wants to say about Job, he or she cannot say that Job was going to just sit and quietly listen to the insults that his friends were throwing at him. Instead, much of the book of Job shows Job  ghting back against a mixture of truth and error. As we learned, these men do not show Job much kindness or pity. They claim to speak for God as they try to explain what has happened to Job. And they say he is getting what he deserves. Any one of these lines of thought would have been bad enough. But all three (and others) are too much, and Job answers them back.

`Read Job 13:1–14. How does Job answer what is being said to him?`

In chapter 2, when these men  rst come to visit Job, they say nothing to him for seven days. But after hearing what they have to say to Job, perhaps they should have remained quiet. That is certainly what Job thinks.

Notice, too: Job says that these men talk lies. And they talk lies about God. (That is interesting in light of what happens toward the end of the book itself [read Job 42:7].) Surely it would be better not to speak than to say things that are wrong. (Who among us has not experienced how true that is?) But it seems that to say things that are wrong about God is much worse. The strange thing is that these men really think they are defending God and His character (who God is) against Job’s bitter complaints about what happened. Job remains unable to understand why all these things have come upon him. But he knows enough to recognize that what these men say makes them “forgers of lies” (Job 13:4).

`When was the last time you said things that were wrong and that should not have been said? How can you learn from that experience so that you do not make the same kind of mistake again?`