---
title:  THOUGH HE SLAY (KILL) ME
date:   21/11/2016
---

### THOUGH HE SLAY (KILL) ME

(Job 13:15)

When we started this quarter, we went right to the end of the book. And we saw how well things later turn out for Job. We saw that, even though Job suffers much, he really has something to hope for. In fact, living when we do and knowing the end of the Bible, we can know that Job has a whole lot more to hope in than he could possibly have imagined at the time.

But when Job’s children die, when his property is taken and his health is ruined, Job does not know how things will turn out. Instead, what he knows is that life suddenly has turned bad.

Job complains bitterly. He wishes he had not been born. But Job still shows hope. And this hope is in the very same God whom he thinks is dealing so unfairly with him now.

`Read Job 13:15. What hope is shown here in this verse? What is Job saying?`

“Even if He will kill me, I will trust Him.” What a powerful testimony (witness; statement) of faith! With all that has happened to him, Job knows that very possibly the  nal thing (death) could come. And God could cause it too. If this happened, Job would die trusting in the Lord.

“The riches of the grace1 of Christ always must be remembered. Store [heap] up the lessons that His love gives. Let your faith be like Job’s, that you may say, ‘Even if God kills me, I’ll [I will] still put my hope in him’ (Job 13:15, NIrV). Claim the promises of your heavenly Father. And remember His past services for you and with His servants. Because ‘in all things God works for the good of those who love him’ (Romans 8:28, NIrV).”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, October 20, 1910.

From our human way of understanding Job’s situation, Job has no reason to hope for anything. But the fact is, Job is not thinking about his problems the way most of us would. If he had done so, what hope could he possibly have? Instead, Job makes this wonderful testimony of faith and hope. And he does so because he trusts in God.

`A reasonable question could be: How does Job keep his faith in God after all that happens to him? Read Job 1:1 and James 2:20–22. How do they help answer this question? And what should the answer tell us about the importance of faithfulness and obedience in our Christian life? (This will be studied more in lesson 13.)`

##### Definitions
1. **grace**—God’s gift of mercy and forgiveness that He freely gives us to take away our sins.