---
title:  HINTS (SIGNS) OF HOPE
date:   22/11/2016
---

HINTS (SIGNS) OF HOPE

(1 Corinthians 15:11–20)

`“ ‘No matter how things turn out, I’m [I am] sure I’ll [I will] still be saved. After all, no ungodly person would dare to come into his [God’s] court’ ” (Job 13:16, NIrV). This verse follows right after the one we read yesterday. How does it support even more the idea that Job has hope and that his hope is in God?`

What an interesting line to follow what comes before. Even if Job were to die, or even if God were to kill him, Job still trusts in his God for salvation. In one way, it is strange; but in another way, it makes perfect sense. After all, what is salvation other than being free from death? And what is death? For the saved, it is a quick moment of rest or an instant (a very short time) of sleep. Then it is followed by the resurrection (return to life from the dead) to eternal life. Is not this hope of the resurrection to eternal life the great hope of all of God’s people through thousands of years?

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:11–20. What is the hope given to us in these verses? Without this hope, why would we have no hope at all?`

Also, after showing this strong belief in salvation, Job says that the “hanef will not come before Him.” The root of the word hanef means “unholy” or “godless.” It is a word with very negative meanings in Hebrew. Job knows that his salvation is to be found only in God. It is found only in a life fully surrendered in faithful obedience to Him. That is why the evil and godless man, the hanef, does not have that hope. Job is speaking about his understanding of his “assurance [promise] of salvation.” Job faithfully offers animal sacri ces for sin, but we do not know how much he understands of their meaning. Before the Cross, most faithful followers of the Lord such as Job surely did not have as full an understanding of salvation as we can have while living after the Cross. But Job still knows enough to know that his hope of salvation is to be found only in the Lord. He also knows that his sacri ces to God are an example of how this salvation is to be found.