---
title:  HOPE BEFORE THE WORLD BEGAN
date:   23/11/2016
---

### HOPE BEFORE THE WORLD BEGAN

(2 Timothy 1:8, 9)

Job has hope because he serves a God of hope.The Bible is  lled with all the sordid (dark and dirty) stories of human sinfulness, from the fall of Adam and Eve in Eden (Genesis 3) to the fall of Babylon at the end of time (Revelation 14:8). But the Bible is a book full of hope. It is  lled with a vision of something beyond what this world itself can offer.

“God has given full control of the world to Christ. Through Christ has come every blessing from God to the fallen race. Jesus was the Redeemer [Savior] both before and after He put on human form. As soon as there was sin, there was a Saviour.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 210. And who is the Savior other than Jesus, the great Giver of our hope?

`Read Ephesians 1:4; Titus 1:2; 2 Timothy 1:8, 9; and 1 Peter 1:18–20. How do these verses affirm (declare the truth of) the wonderful hope shown in the Ellen G. White statement found in today’s study?`

These verses teach the wonderful truth that God knew, even before the Creation of the world, that people would fall into sin. The Greek meaning in 2 Timothy 1:9 says that we have been called by a grace given to us in Christ Jesus “before eternal time.” This is a grace given us, “not according to our works.” (How could it have been “our works” if we were not even alive then?) It was possible only through Jesus. Even before we were alive, God put a plan in place that offered humans the hope of eternal life. The hope did not arise after we needed it. Instead, it was already there, ready for us when we did need it.

As Christians, we have so much to hope for and to hope in. We live in a universe created by a God who loves us (John 3:16), a God who redeemed (bought) us with His life (Titus 2:14), a God who hears our prayers (Matthew 6:6), a God who saves us (Hebrews 7:25), a God who promises never to leave us (Hebrews 13:5), a God who promises to raise our bodies from death (Isaiah 26:19), and to give us eternal life with Him (John 14:2, 3).

`“What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us?” (Romans 8:31). How can you make this hope your own even in the middle of whatever struggles you are facing now?`