---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   25/11/2016
---

### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:

From cover to cover, the Bible is  lled with wonderful words of hope. “ ‘I have told you these things, so that you can have peace because of me. In this world you will have trouble. But cheer up! I have won the battle over the world’ ” (John 16:33, NIrV). “He [Jesus] has removed our lawless acts from us as far as the east is from the west” (Psalm 103:12, NIrV). “I am absolutely [fully] sure that not even death or life can separate us from God’s love. Not even angels or demons, the present or the future, or any powers can do that. Not even the highest places or the lowest, or anything else in all creation can do that. Nothing at all can ever separate us from God’s love because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done” (Romans 8:38, 39, NIrV).

“ ‘When the rainbow appears in the clouds, I will see it. I will remember that my covenant2 will last forever. It is a covenant between me and every kind of living thing on earth’ ” (Genesis 9:16, NIrV). “How great is the love the Father has given us so freely! Now we can be called children of God. And that’s [that is] what we are! The world doesn’t [does not] know us because it didn’t [did not] know him” (1 John 3:1, NIrV).

These verses are just a small part of what is shown to us in the Bible about what our God is like and what He offers us. What reasons would we have for hope at all if we did not have the Bible to show it to us?

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:
- `What other Bible verses speak to us of hope? Which ones are very important to you, and why?`

- `Of all the doctrines (teachings and beliefs) of the Seventhday Adventist Church, which ones do you  nd the most hopeful?`

- `Among the personal troubles and hardships of life, how can we learn to be glad in the hope that is given to us in the Bible? Why is it so easy to get discouraged by events, even with so much hope given to us? What can we do, within our ability, to always remember this hope and to be glad in it?`

- `“Talk hope and faith and thanksgiving to God. Be cheerful, hopeful in Christ. Educate yourself to praise Him. This is a great cure for diseases of the soul and of the body.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Mind, Character, and Personality, volume 2, page 492. Why is praise so important in helping us to stay hopeful in the Lord?`

##### Definitions
1. **covenant**—promise or agreement between God and His people.