---
title:  "Fact or Fiction: The Case for Christ’s Resurrection"
date:   24/02/2026
---

### inTerpret

Young adults can share the truth of the resurrection with confidence in a world that demands logic and proof. The evidence in favor of Christ’s resurrection is strong and compelling:

**Fatal crucifixion:** It’s essential to establish that Jesus really died on the cross. Dr. William D. Edwards, in his medical analysis of the crucifixion published in _The Journal of the American Medical Association_, explains the severity of crucifixion, emphasizing that “clearly, the weight of the historical and medical evidence indicates that Jesus was dead before the wound to His side was inflicted.”<sup>1</sup> The Roman soldiers were expert executioners, ensuring that Jesus did not merely faint or survive but actually died (John 19:33, 34).

**Empty tomb:** In his analysis of the resurrection, Dr. Gary Habermas concludes that the empty tomb is a historical fact that is supported by multiple lines of evidence, including the early testimonies of women discovering the tomb.<sup>2</sup> If the gospel accounts were fabricated, as skeptics suggest, the writers would never have invented a story based on female witnesses in an ancient culture where a woman’s testimony was often impermissible in court. The prominence of female witnesses in the story means the gospel writers were willing to include culturally inconvenient details to tell the story accurately. The empty tomb’s significance is underscored by the fact that Jesus’ enemies could not produce His body to refute the resurrection claims (Matt. 28:11–15).

**Appearances:** The early Christians didn’t just believe that Jesus was alive in a spiritual sense; they claimed that they saw Him in a physical, bodily form. Paul lists these appearances in 1 Corinthians 15:5–8. At the time he wrote Corinthians, nearly five hundred witnesses were still living and could verify what Paul had said.

**Transformation:** The resurrection’s impact on the disciples was profound and immediate, transforming them from a band of defeated followers into bold proclaimers of the risen Christ. Before the resurrection, the disciples were fearful and in hiding (John 20:19), but afterward, they were willing to face persecution and even death for their testimony (Acts 4:33). People don’t knowingly die for a lie.

The early church did not create the resurrection event, but the resurrection event created the early church. When you share the message of the resurrection, you’re not just sharing a story—you’re offering the ultimate truth that has the power to change lives.

`Which of these four aspects of the resurrection do you think is the most important in helping people believe in the resurrection? Which of them is the least significant?`

`What other lines of evidence would you add to help establish the truth of the resurrection?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from John 20:1–18. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> W.D. Edwards, W.J. Gabel, and F.E. Hosmer, “On the Physical Death of Jesus Christ,” Journal of the American Medical Association, 255, no. 11 (1986), https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/3512867/.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> G. Habermas, “The Case for the Resurrection of Jesus,” Kregel Publications, 2004, 51.