---
title:  inQuire
date:   28/02/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it is important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful study discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Mary Magdalene:**

1. What would have been your reaction to an empty tomb? _John 20:1–3_
2. What do we know about Mary Magdalene’s background? _Luke 8:1–3_
3. What can we learn about Jesus and His priorities from His encounter with Mary? _John 20:11–18_

`Personal reflection: How can you relate to Mary? How should Jesus’ concern for her influence the way we relate to others?`

**The significance of the resurrection:**

1. How does the resurrection change our understanding of what it means to live a victorious life in Christ? _Rom. 6:4–6_
2. How does the resurrection give believers the confidence to face death with hope? _1 Cor. 15:20–23_

`Personal reflection: What stories inspire you not to be afraid of death? Examples could include brave missionaries, persecuted believers, unflinching reformers, etc.`

**Sharing the truth of the resurrection:**

1. The resurrection sets Jesus apart from all other religious leaders. How does this fact shape the way you share your faith with others? _Acts 4:33; 1 Cor. 15:14–19_
2. How can the historical evidence of the resurrection (fatal crucifixion, empty tomb, appearances, and transformation) be used to share the message of the resurrection with skeptics or those who need logical evidence?

`Personal reflection: What practical ways can we share the hope of the resurrection with our community, especially in a world that is often skeptical or fearful of death?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Jesus notices our sorrows and cares for each person individually.
- Christ’s resurrection gives us power to overcome sin and not be afraid of death.
- The historical evidence for the resurrection is strong, and believers can share the truth of the resurrection with confidence.