---
title:  Suffering for Christ
date:   06/05/2017
---

### Suffering for Christ

I woke up one morning with my mom sponging my head with a cold, wet cloth. I felt as though a load of bricks were on top of me. I had a body temperature so high that it worried my mother, because I was only three years old. A few hours later the fever still hadn’t subsided, so my mother decided to get me checked. When we arrived at the hospital, through a stethoscope, a nurse detected a murmuring sound in my chest. She suggested a referral for further tests. A few weeks later the tests confirmed that I was born with a defective heart.

**For Christians, suffering is just not about pain; it is about winning in Christ.**

As I look back, I realize I did not deserve such a condition. I had suffered for years from a condition that was determined by the outcome of a sinful world. As human beings, we dislike suffering, because it’s painful, negative, and destructive. But for Christians, suffering is not just about pain; it is about winning in Christ. And our suffering in this world is temporary.

Job suffered for what he did not deserve. He was caught in the battle between the two celestial superpowers. His wealth was destroyed; his home was destroyed; and, much worse, his children were killed. And yet “in all this Job did not sin or blame God” (Job 1:22, NCV). He held on to God even though his world seemed to have collapsed.

The perfect example of Jesus’ suffering was for us, not for Himself. He was born into this world so humbly, and He suffered while doing the will of His Father. He suffered on the cruel cross of Calvary for our sins to be washed away. Isaiah 53:4, 5 says, “He took our suffering on him / and felt our pain for us. / We saw his suffering / and thought God was punishing him. / But he was wounded for the wrong we did; / he was crushed for the evil we did” (NCV).

“Even though Jesus was the Son of God, he learned obedience by what he suffered” (Heb. 5:8, NCV). And He can overcome our suffering if we depend on Him. “Now he can help those who are tempted, because he himself suffered and was tempted” (Heb. 2:18, NCV).

When you suffer in this world, remember the suffering of Jesus Christ, because His suffering gives us the hope of His resurrection and soon return.

**REACT**

`1. Is it good to suffer without Jesus?`
`2. Why would you think it’s good to suffer like Jesus?`

_Loloma K. Gairo, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_