---
title:  My Dear Friends
date:   07/05/2017
---

### My Dear Friends

1 Pet. 4:12–14

At the beginning of his letter, Peter writes an exhortation, a direct and intimate address to his readers. The word agap–etoi, meaning “beloved” (“my dear friends”), underscores the bond of affection uniting author and audience as the problem of innocent suffering is again taken up. This term of affection is consistent with his stress on love (agap– e) and familial loyalty throughout the letter.1

**We are a part of something greater than ourselves.**

Peter’s letters are a guide for the early Christians of Asia Minor (modern Turkey) during their early persecutions. In Rome, being a Christian was illegal. Some persecutions had a great impact on the Roman provinces, such as Asia Minor and others. This is why, during the time they were written, these letters made a huge impression on the hearts of the believers who lived there. The fact that the Christians in Rome were being persecuted (Peter also being in Rome) made that connection between Peter and the brethren even greater.

In 1 Peter 4:12–14, Peter tells the brethren to rejoice in suffering, which meant they were part of something greater than themselves. When Emperor Nero ruled the empire and started to persecute Christians, it was for the simple reason that they were different. The words Peter spoke gave courage to the early Christians. It made them think of suffering as a reward for being faithful to Christ rather than a punishment. Tertullian wrote, “The blood of Christians is seed” allowing Christianity to flourish through trial and persecution rather than through comfort and happiness.2

Peter’s letters are known because they are addressed to a greater community in the world, opening the invitation of salvation to everyone, Jew or Gentile. When you go through trials and persecutions, some are greater than others, and your life may even be in jeopardy because of what you believe. Always remember to be a living torch for others to see. Be different, for we are a part of something greater than ourselves. Share your faith under the worst circumstances, knowing that we, too, can rejoice in suffering as the early Christians did.

**REACT**

`1. How can you share your faith in difficult times?`
`2. How can you inspire fellow Christians to stand firm during trials and persecutions?`
`3. Is it necessary to wait for hard times to come so we can share our faith?`

_Miguel Alejandro Patiño Ramírez, Montemorelos, Mexico_