---
title:  Helping Believers to Face Suffering
date:   08/05/2017
---

### Helping Believers to Face Suffering

Matt. 5:39;
John 15:18;
1 Pet. 3:13–17; 4:19

**Why Did Christ Suffer? (John 3:16)**
God was aware that after the fall of Adam and Eve, suffering and death would reign in this world. For this reason, God designed a plan before humanity’s creation called the plan of redemption (John 3:16). He would send His only Son to die in the place of each human being born in sin. Just imagine how hard it was for the Father to send His only Son to die in our place. He did this because He wanted to give us hope that even in the midst of suffering we would remember that He will return and bring an end to all of this.

Trust always in God and show the person what you know about Jesus through your example.

**Who Will Hurt You? (1 Pet. 3:13–17)**
What is suffering? In human eyes, it happens when someone is in pain, distress, or hardship. But in God’s eyes, it is an instrument that He allows to get our attention, to accomplish His purpose in our lives, and to build our trust in Him, but it requires our will to accept God’s purpose for us, which motivates us to be transformed and to trust always in Him.

In 1 Peter, we read about believers who were having a hard time facing suffering and grief for the church of Christ. These first Christians remind us that we don’t belong to this world and that this world will always be a place of pain and suffering until Jesus comes back. In 1 Peter 3:14, the apostle assures us that we must not be afraid or troubled because we are blessed when we suffer. When we allow God to enter into our hearts, He will strengthen us to face pain and have hope in His promises.

**Suffering in Relationships**
In the Garden of Eden, God created human beings to relate to each other with love and care, to be social beings toward one another. But when sin entered into the world, Satan did everything he could to take us away from God. This is happening especially to young people in our day. For example, when we choose our future spouse, we must choose wisely because all the choices we make now will bring eternal consequences. We may suffer if God doesn’t bless these choices. When people have a broken relationship with God, marriage no longer goes according to His plan. If we don’t follow God’s instructions, we may suffer the consequences for the rest of our lives.

**Suffering at School (Matt. 5:39)**
School is a really good place to learn and, of course, to make new friends. But there are times when students are bullied and where fighting, swearing, and other conflicts take place. When a classmate starts making fun of you, saying that you don’t know how to speak, write, or act, or is even disrespecting your religion, don’t worry about that person. Trust always in God and show the person what you know about Jesus through your example, by treating him or her as you want the person to treat you. Jesus said, “ ‘I tell you not to resist an evil person. But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also’ ” (Matt. 5:39, NKJV).

**Suffering at Work**
For everyone who has a job, it’s really nice because you can earn your own money and do what you really enjoy. But some jobs don’t offer a day off on Saturdays. Some people are dismissed because they want to be faithful to Jesus and worship Him on Saturdays. Always have faith, follow His ways, and trust in God that the best is yet to come.

**Causes of Suffering (John 15:18)**
There are many causes of suffering. We suffer because we live in a fallen world where sin abides in human hearts. Sometimes in some places, we suffer because we are persecuted for our faith (2 Tim. 3:12). And many times we suffer because of our own foolish decisions. We reap what we sow. If we sow foolishness, we will reap the foolish consequences of suffering (Gal. 6:7–9).

**Suffering Is a Battleground (1 Pet. 4:19)**
Wherever there is suffering, there is a battle—suffering is a battleground between evil and good. We suffer in order to learn how to trust God and have more faith, especially in light of His second coming. Sometimes God allows us to suffer so that we can have a deeper and less superficial relationship with Him, finding our answers only in Him. Suffering is always going to be part of being a true follower of Christ. If you are a true follower, you will always be different from everyone, just as Jesus was different when He came to this world. Remember that Jesus is constantly restoring, confirming, and strengthening you.

**REACT**

`1. What does “suffering for Christ” mean to you? Why?`
`2. What do you do when you have made the wrong marriage decisions?`
`3. What counsel does the Bible give in these circumstances of suffering?`
`4. What do you do when you see someone being bullied? Do you keep quiet, or do you help the bullied person?`
`5. Should we suffer to keep God’s seventh-day Sabbath? What are resources that are known to help with these circumstances?`
`6. What other causes of suffering are there? Should one desire to limit one’s levels of suffering?`

_Giuliana Cruz and Guido Cruz, São Paulo, Brazil_