---
title:  “Stars Appear Brighter in the Night”
date:   09/05/2017
---

### “Stars Appear Brighter in the Night”

Eph. 6:17

My father wanted me to have the best education, so he enrolled me in an international school for my elementary years. But it was a non-Adventist school where pupils were required to attend class on Saturday. My father informed the administrators that they should exempt me; but with the passing of time, they forgot their agreement. Some even demanded that I stay out of class the following Monday. Despite this, I continued to keep the seventh day holy.

Each week my father made sure that I had my Sabbath School lesson every time I went back to school. I spent the Sabbath day studying the lesson. Later I discovered other Adventist students, and together we met each Sabbath to discuss the lesson and pray. We eventually developed our gathering into a full Sabbath worship service, and local church elders came every Sabbath to help us.

**After the pressure from the school administration, I began to take my faith seriously.**

Before I attended that school, I didn’t care very much about prayer or studying my Sabbath School lesson. Yet, after the pressure from the school administration, I began to take my faith seriously. I learned to study my Bible and pray. I learned special songs of encouragement and even found that I could talk to our small congregation of students. The experience challenged me to stand up for my faith, and my dream is now to become a lawyer.

“In the last great conflict of the controversy with Satan those who are loyal to God will see every earthly support cut off. Because they refuse to break His law in obedience to earthly powers, they will be forbidden to buy or sell. It will finally be decreed that they shall be put to death. . . . But to the obedient is given the promise, ‘He shall dwell on high: his place of defense shall be the munitions of rocks: bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure.’ Isaiah 33:16.”1

“Those who endeavor to obey all the commandments of God will be opposed and derided. They can stand only in God. In order to endure the trial before them, they must understand the will of God as revealed in His word; they can honor Him only as they have a right conception of His character, government, and purposes, and act in accordance with them. None but those who have fortified the mind with the truths of the Bible will stand through the last great conflict. To every soul will come the searching test: Shall I obey God rather than men?”2

1. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 121, 122.
2. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 593, 594.

_Ashley Natasha Odhiambo, Silang, Cavite, Manila, Philippines_