---
title:  Daily Decisions
date:   10/05/2017
---

### Daily Decisions

Matt. 5:10;

1 Pet. 3:13–22

In 1 Peter 3:13–22, we read that Jesus was persecuted, but ultimately He is the winner and Redeemer as well. Peter teaches in 1 Peter 2:21 that for “this you were called, because Christ suffered for you” (NIV). He knew that in our daily issues we were going to suffer because of our true witness. Christ is our Mirror, and we should imitate Him.

First, we must understand persecution. It can occur in our school or work, sometimes even in a Christian environment as issues develop. For example, having an uncomfortable situation with coworkers can cause a hostile environment. If God wanted us to have fear, we would never be able one day to say, “I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith” (2 Tim. 4:7, NIV).

**We start to discover how to deal with persecution daily.**

Persecution helps us to have a better relationship with God, and we start to discover how to deal with persecution daily. For example, in a situation around people who do not share our beliefs, there are always decisions to make. We must decide to do what will affect our persecutors for good, so as to avoid the persecution if possible or persist in the suffering for them to one day be in heaven. In those moments, although it is good for us to pray for strength, we don’t need to ask the Lord what we should do. We already know the answer, and we find it in the Bible.

God says, “ ‘Do not fear their threats; do not be frightened.’ But in your hearts revere Christ as Lord” (1 Pet. 3:14, 15, NIV). And just a bit further down in verse 16, He gave us a promise of justice: “Those who speak maliciously against your good behavior in Christ may be ashamed” (NIV).

Always remember that our heavenly house is waiting for us, but first we have to pass the test of being the sons and daughters of God.

**REACT**

`1. What is the reason for being Christians if we don’t have tests for our faith to be stronger?`
`2. What is the most common persecution or suffering you have in your daily life?`

_Miguel Angel Correa, Manila, Philippines_