---
title:  Why Must Christians Suffer?
date:   11/05/2017
---

### Why Must Christians Suffer?

1 Pet. 2:21

The life of a Christian is shaped by both positive and negative experiences. Pleasure, joy, and good fortune are often interspersed with pain, distress, and hardship. Suffering is an inescapable reality of life that has the potential either to make or break a person. Suffering is caused by poor judgment, and bad deeds may be understood as the consequences of our own actions. However, there are times when good deeds and prudent decisions may bring unjust persecution and suffering on us. Why must Christians suffer unjustly?

**We who suffer are merely collateral damage in the great cosmic war between the forces of good and evil.**

One of life’s great mysteries is why God allows good people to suffer unjustly. In my opinion, God always has a purpose for allowing Christians to suffer. Pain, distress, and hardship are necessary for spiritual maturity, just as fire, a hammer, and pressure are necessary to produce a fine steel sword. Think about it: what good is a sword that has not been tested against another to prove its mettle and strength?

The unjust suffering that Christians endure is actually directed at Jesus Himself. The life He lived and the gospel He taught are the real targets. We who suffer are merely collateral damage in the great cosmic war between the forces of good and evil. Therefore, as true soldiers on Christ’s side, we must endure whatever comes our way. When the battle gets tough and life gets rough, Jesus our Deliverer will not leave us alone but has promised to fight our battles until victory is won.

How should a Christian respond to unjust or undeserved suffering? Matthew 5:11, 12 gives us the perfect answer: “ ‘Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you’ ” (NIV). This should be the attitude and spirit in which we Christians endure suffering and pain. Let us not forget that a great reward awaits those who faithfully endure persecution and suffering for Christ.

**REACT**

`1. Is suffering for Christ a test of loyalty to God and of spiritual endurance?`
`2. Is it all right to invite suffering just to prove our loyalty to God?`
`3. Is avoiding suffering an act of cowardice and unfaithfulness to God?`
`4. What is the “great reward” that God has promised for those who faithfully endure?`

_Komal Nunfeli Swansi, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_