---
title:  The Privilege of Living for Christ
date:   12/05/2017
---

### The Privilege of Living for Christ

1 Pet. 3:14; 4:15, 16

**CONCLUDE**
Members of the early church faced a huge dilemma: follow Jesus or conform to the demands of the Roman government. For those who believed in Jesus, however, this wasn’t even a choice. Not to believe or not to follow in Jesus’ steps would have been much worse than facing persecution from the Romans. How many of us have faced true persecution in our own lives? It can become easy to coast through our Christian walk, lacking the passion and perseverance of the early church. However, we should never take for granted what a privilege it is to live for—and suffer for—Jesus!

**CONSIDER**
- Journaling about the ways in which the Lord is blessing you right now. Reflect upon these journal notes when you find yourself in a darker time—specifically facing persecution—and be encouraged by the Lord’s provision in the past.
- Praying for specific missionaries working in a country that is closed to the gospel of Jesus (not just missionaries at large). If possible, open the lines of communication with these missionaries though e-mails or letters, sharing encouraging Bible verses and letting them know that you are praying for them, or even send them care packages.
- Composing a piece of music, with or without lyrics, that portrays the strength and hope of the early Christians, even in the face of persecution. Perform this piece for your Sabbath School class or small group.
- Considering mission work for yourself. While this may seem daunting, it is important to remember the sacrifice that Christ made when He came to this planet and died for us. How could any of our earthly trials compare to that?
- Meditating on the trials of the early church—especially those discussed in this week’s Logos verses. As you do, ask the Lord to reveal specific lessons from their lives that could impact your own life.
- Painting or drawing a picture that depicts the persecution of the early church. If possible, incorporate some kind of symbol that indicates the hope of Jesus that sustained the Christians. Share this picture with your Sabbath School class or small group.

**CONNECT**

1. Hebrews 11–13.
2. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chap. 8, “Before the Sanhedrin.” John Foxe, Foxe’s Book of Martyrs.