---
title:  The Life and the Law
date:  03/06/2021
---

#### inSight

“God’s law is a copy of His mind and will. The sins forbidden there could never find a place in Heaven. It was love that prompted God to express His will in the ten precepts of the decalogue. Afterward He showed His love for man by sending prophets and teachers to explain and illustrate His holy law.”[1]

“The law of God existed before man was created. It was adapted to the condition of holy beings; even angels were governed by it. After the fall, the principles of righteousness were unchanged. Nothing was taken from the law; not one of its holy precepts could be improved. And as it has existed from the beginning, so will it continue to exist throughout the ceaseless ages of eternity. ‘Concerning thy testimonies,’ says the psalmist, ‘I have known of old that thou hast founded them forever.’ ”[2]

“Holding up Christ as our only source of strength, presenting His matchless love in having the guilt of the sins of men charged to His account and His own righteousness imputed to man, in no case does away with the law or detracts from its dignity. Rather, it places it where the correct light shines upon and glorifies it. This is done only through the light reflected from the cross of Calvary. The law is complete and full in the great plan of salvation, only as it is presented in the light shining from the crucified and risen Saviour. This can be only spiritually discerned. It kindles in the heart of the beholder ardent faith, hope, and joy that Christ is his righteousness. This joy is only for those who love and keep the words of Jesus, which are the words of God.”[3]

“Every soul may say: ‘By His perfect obedience He has satisfied the claims of the law, and my only hope is found in looking to Him as my substitute and surety, who obeyed the law perfectly for me. By faith in His merits I am free from the condemnation of the law. He clothes me with His righteousness, which answers all the demands of the law. I am complete in Him who brings in everlasting righteousness. He presents me to God in the spotless garment of which no thread was woven by any human agent. All is of Christ, and all the glory, honor, and majesty are to be given to the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world.’ ”[4]

“God will help us if we take hold of the help He has provided. ‘Let him take hold of My strength,’ He says, ‘that he may make peace with Me, and he shall make peace with Me’ [Isaiah 27:5]. This is a blessed promise. Many times, when I have been discouraged and almost in despair, I have come to the Lord with this promise, and said, ‘Let me take hold of Thy strength, that I may make peace with Thee; and I shall make peace with Thee.’ And as I have laid hold of the strength of God, I have found a peace which passeth understanding.”[5]

[1]. Ellen G. White, The Bible Echo, April 16, 1894, par. 12.

[2]. White, Selected Messages, 1:220.

[3]. White, Lift Him Up, 150.

[4]. White, Selected Messages, 1:396.

[5]. White, Sermons and Talks, 2:7.4.

`Comments`