---
title:  inTro
date:   16/08/2026
---

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Matthew 26:57—27:10

### A Life of Integrity

During the Medo-Persian Empire, one of the three governors set over the kingdom was a prisoner of war named Daniel. Born a Jew in Israel and a descendant of royal heritage, the Babylonians had taken him captive during their first wave of attacks on Jerusalem. He ended up living as a captive under two successive empires.

In those foreign lands, one particular trait continually worked in Daniel’s favor: he was a man of intense integrity. The Bible does not record a single fault in Daniel’s life. This doesn’t mean he never sinned; Scripture teaches that “all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God” (Rom. 3:23), including Daniel. However, I believe the reason Scripture doesn’t record any of his faults is because he served as a literary type of Christ.

Daniel’s faith in God and commitment to Him, no matter the cost, is what continually set him head and shoulders above all his peers. He was promoted in the Babylonian Empire because of it. When the Medo-Persian Empire overthrew Babylon, Daniel’s excellence in leadership was so well known that he was given the position of governor in the new kingdom. The king even considered putting him in charge of the entire realm. This, however, didn’t sit well with his peers. They searched for a way to accuse him so he wouldn’t be promoted. They checked his work performance—nothing. They looked into his personal life—still nothing. Finally, they realized the only way to get him into trouble was if his loyalty to God somehow conflicted with the interests of the kingdom. So, they approached the king and claimed that _all_ the satraps and governors (including Daniel by implication, since he was also a governor) had consulted together to establish a decree: anyone who petitioned any god or man besides the king for thirty days would be thrown into the lions’ den. It was a death sentence. The king signed off on it without considering the consequences.

Daniel, as always, continued to pray three times a day in front of his open window. Before long, Daniel was reported to the king. King Darius wanted to deliver his friend Daniel, but he couldn’t; his hands were tied. Daniel’s accusers claimed the king would be out of harmony with the principles of the kingdom if he didn’t go through with it. Daniel was thrown into the lions’ den, but God protected him and saw him through the crisis. Afterward, his enemies were crushed.

For many of us, this is a familiar story—one we’ve heard since childhood. Jesus also heard this story from childhood. But for Him it wasn’t just a story; it was a prophecy of His own life. Also born of royal lineage, Jesus too was hated by His peers for living a life of integrity. He too was arraigned on false pretenses and brought before a king who recognized the petty jealousy of those accusing Him, yet still went forward with the death sentence—even though he acknowledged that the One accused was a “just person” (Matt. 27:24). The Jews said the king was no friend of Caesar, the emperor, if he didn’t punish Jesus, similar to Daniel’s accusers charging the king with trying to work outside of the principles of their kingdom.

Here’s the difference: Jesus was not spared from suffering. He actually died. However, again like Daniel, He emerged from the tomb-like structure that was sealed with a stone, and His enemies and accusers—Satan and death—were crushed (1 Cor. 15:54–55; Rev. 12:10).

In last week’s study, we saw Jesus submit to His calling, choosing to “save man at any cost to Himself.”<sup>1</sup> This week, we’ll see the trial begin. He’s been taken from Gethsemane to the high priest’s home and is about to face His accusers. We will also discuss Judas’ remorse for betraying “innocent blood” (Matt. 27:4) and Peter’s public denial of Jesus. The drama ramps up, but so does the grace and glory of Christ.

### inScribe

Make an outline or mind map of Matthew 26:57—27:10. Write out Matthew 26:57–65 from the translation of your choice or rewrite it in your own words.

Review your scribed passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [Arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`What special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 690.