---
title:  inGest
date:   17/08/2026
---

### Injustice and Abuse

After Jesus’ arrest, the Sanhedrin (the Jewish judicial and administrative council) had to find reasonable charges to secure His death. This task was difficult. Jesus had been very careful and exact in His language and didn’t give them anything that would clearly warrant an arrest.

The high priest first questioned Jesus about His disciples and His doctrine. Jesus reminded him that His ministry had been transparent and His teachings public (John 18:20). One of the officers, offended by Jesus’ answer, struck Him with his hand. Jesus replied, “If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil; but if well, why do you strike Me?” (John 18:23).

The leaders conspired to bring in false witnesses to get Jesus in trouble, but their testimonies contradicted one another. They eventually agreed on a cohesive testimony, accusing Him of saying, “I am able to destroy the temple of God and to build it in three days” (Matt. 26:61). In truth, He didn’t say that. What He did say was, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up” (John 2:19). The temple He was referring to was His own body. They had asked for a sign of His authority and His answer was to tell them that when they crucified Him, He would rise again in three days, revealing His ultimate authority.

Jesus did not respond to most of the questions the leaders asked. Centuries before, the prophet Isaiah highlighted His unusual silence: “As a sheep before its shearers is silent, so He opened not His mouth” (Isa. 53:7). However, when the high priest directly asked if He is the Christ, the Son of God, Jesus replied that yes, He is. Furthermore, He said, “You will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power, and coming on the clouds of heaven” (Matt. 26:64). That response was all they needed. For this statement, they declared Him guilty of blasphemy and worthy of death.

Jesus was then subjected to more humiliation and disrespectful treatment. He was spit on, beaten, and mocked as a false prophet. Think about that for a moment—the Lord of glory being treated so poorly! At the start of the week He was hailed with palm branches, but here at the end He was struck with the palms of furious men.

Yet again, Jesus didn’t say a word. Looking back at Jesus’ rebuke of Peter from last week’s lesson, this moment becomes even more profound. He could have summoned twelve legions of angels to defend Him—and they surely longed to do so in the face of such injustice. But He did not call for them. He was truly and willingly laying down His life for all in the world—including the very men who abused Him in that moment.

**Questions to consider:**

`Have you ever been falsely accused? How did it feel? How did you respond?`

`Why do you think the religious leaders chose to ignore the clear evidence of Jesus’ Messiahship?`