---
title:  inTerpret
date:   18/08/2026
---

### Betraying Innocent Blood

The chief priests and leaders of the people began strategizing how to kill Jesus (Matt. 27:1). However, Judas was not plotting Jesus’ death. Judas was stunned when he saw Jesus being condemned to die and doing nothing to deliver Himself. He never considered himself Jesus’ enemy. Actually, Judas believed he was Christ’s most valuable ally. Judas was trying to force Jesus to deliver Himself and establish Himself as the political, militaristic Messiah everyone was hoping for.<sup>1</sup> He imagined he was doing Jesus a favor, thinking Jesus was being too modest. _I’ll turn Him in to the authorities,_ he thought, _and He’ll have to show us all what He’s capable of. Then perhaps I’ll get a promotion, and Jesus will thank me._

Judas remembered how Jesus had refused to cooperate when the crowds were determined to crown Him king after He fed the five thousand in Galilee (John 6:15). Jesus had shut the idea down and drastically reduced the size of the crowd (John 6:66) by telling them that unless they ate His flesh and drank His blood, they would have no life. Judas was trying again to force Jesus to become king, only to learn at the trial that there were going to be horrific consequences. Jesus would not deliver Himself and would allow Himself to be crucified. This realization terrified Judas. He tried to convince Jesus’ enemies that Jesus was “innocent” (Matt 27:4), but the leaders were unmoved by Judas’ pleas. They were determined to kill Jesus.

Judas threw the pieces of silver back at the leaders and left, overwhelmed with conviction. Judas realized then the magnitude of what he’d done, and there was nothing he could do to save Jesus now. His duplicity in his relationship with Jesus had caught up with him. He wanted Jesus and His kingdom, but he wanted the world too. He had never fully surrendered himself to Christ.

Jesus had showered him with abundant grace and forgiveness before he crossed that line when he left the upper room, but unfortunately, Judas yielded to the powers of darkness and did what he never thought he would do when he tragically ended his own life. He found himself in that situation by leaning on his own wisdom—attempting to fit Jesus into his plans instead of building his plans on Jesus. He never fully submitted himself to Jesus’ teachings and principles. Ultimately, that resistance separated him from the Source of life and resulted in eternal loss.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what are your main takeaways? What questions emerge? What parts are difficult?`

`Think about Judas’ story and how he ended up where he did. How could that have been avoided?`

`Memorize your favorite passage from Matthew 26:57—27:10. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 721.