---
title:  inVite
date:   20/08/2026
---

### “I Don’t Know Him”

Peter and John followed at a distance when Jesus was arrested and taken to Jerusalem. They arrived at the courtyard of the high priest, which John was able to enter because of a connection to the high priest. Peter wasn’t allowed to enter until John went and spoke to the girl who kept the door, and together they brought Peter in.

At that very moment, the girl asked Peter, “You are not also one of this Man’s disciples, are you?” (John 18:17). This question is a big one. First, it tells us that John did not deny his connection to Christ. Secondly, it offered Peter a chance to affirm his own connection to Jesus. Unfortunately, Peter said no to the girl—and he did so right in front of John.

It must have shocked John to hear his friend and fellow disciple disavow Jesus like that. Peter also must have been ashamed of what he had just done. He joined some of the servants and officers by the fire to warm himself, and was asked a second time if he was one of Jesus’ disciples. Peter denied his connection to Jesus once again.

Then a relative of Malchus, the man whose ear Peter cut off, pushed the point again, asking, “Did I not see you in the garden with Him?” (John 18:26). A third time, Peter denied Jesus. Then he heard a rooster crow. It all came back to him, and the realization hit: Jesus predicted this moment. Peter’s defiant dismissal of that warning proved disastrous.

At that very moment of realization and deep conviction, Peter turned to look at Jesus—and Jesus’ eyes met his. The kind of face we envision Peter seeing in that moment reveals a lot about our theology. Is it a face of pity and sadness? Or one of anger and disappointment?

The book _The Desire of Ages_ describes it this way: “In that gentle countenance he read deep pity and sorrow, but there was no anger there.”<sup>1</sup> Unready to receive grace in that moment, Peter ran away. He went out and wept bitterly, repenting for denying his Lord and Friend. Jesus’ response to Peter in that moment tells us a great deal about how He looks at us in the midst of our own failures. Hopefully, like Peter, the goodness of God will lead us to repentance too (Rom. 2:4).

**Questions to consider:**

`When Peter encountered grace and knew he didn’t deserve it, he ran away. Has your shame ever led you to run from God’s grace instead of receiving it?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 713.