---
title:  inQuire
date:   22/08/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Jesus before the Sanhedrin:**

1. What kind of false accusations did the chief priests stir up to condemn Christ to death? Matt. 26:57–62
2. Jesus remained silent when accused. What does that teach us about how to handle false accusations? When is silence appropriate? Consider Prov. 26:4; Matt. 7:6.
3. Jesus broke His silence when directly questioned about His identity. What kind of storm did His answer trigger? Matt. 26:63–67

`Personal reflection: Jesus began the week being celebrated with palm branches; He ended the week being struck by the palms of the priests and their guards. What does this teach us about the human heart and mob mentalities? How can you avoid being negatively influenced by the crowd?`

**Peter’s failure:**

1. Peter denied Jesus the first time right in front of John. How must John have felt when witnessing that? How would you have reacted? John 18:15–17
2. How was Peter impacted by the look Jesus gave him after he finished cursing and swearing? How would you have felt in that instant? Luke 22:60–62

`Personal reflection: Like Peter, when have you let others’ influence silence your witness for Jesus? How can you find the courage to stand firm next time?`

**Judas’ remorse:**

1. What complicated perspectives and motives can we discern in Judas? Matt. 27:3–5
2. The priests were so conscientious they refused to allow blood money in the treasury but had no issues with stirring up false witnesses. What can we learn about human nature? Matt. 27:6–8; 26:59

`Personal reflection: What was the difference between Judas’ remorse and Peter’s repentance? Do you ever become so focused on your own agenda that you ignore God’s warnings or the pleas of conscience?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Even while false accusations, brutal abuse, and unjust condemnation mounted against Him, Jesus remained silent and resolute, fully surrendering Himself to God’s plan and laying down His life for a world that so cruelly rejected Him.
- In Peter’s painful denial and Jesus’ compassionate gaze we see the profound truth that even in our deepest failures, God’s grace meets us not with anger but with a tender invitation to repentance and restoration.
- Judas’ tragic tale reveals the danger of clinging to our own agenda instead of fully surrendering to Jesus’ wisdom and timing, yet it also reminds us that eternal life is ours when we fully trust Christ and yield ourselves completely to Him.