---
title:  The Birdcage
date:  09/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Exodus 14:10; Exodus 17:1; Luke 4:1, 2; 1 Peter 1:6–9; Romans 8:28; 2 Corinthians 12:9.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “With this hope you can be happy even [no matter] if you need to have [suffer] sorrow and all kinds [different types] of tests for awhile” (1 Peter 1:6, NLV).

A BIRD IN A CAGE WILL NOT LEARN TO SING the song its master wants it to sing while the bird sits in sunlight and can hear other noises, voices, and music. Maybe the bird learns a piece of one song, a part of another song. But the bird never learns a whole song. So, the bird’s master must cover the cage. Then the master puts the cage in a place where the bird will hear the one song he must sing. In the dark, the bird tries and tries again to sing that song. That is how the bird learns to sing that song. When the bird can sing the whole song, the master puts the bird back in the light. God trains His children in the same way. God has a ‘song’ to teach us. We must learn the song during dark times of suffering. Then we can sing the song after that whenever we want.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 472, adapted.

Do you see in the paragraph we just read that the person who carries the bird into the dark is the master?

We see that Satan causes pain. That’s easy to see, right? But does God, our Master, really lead us into times of suffering? Does God really give us difficult tests that, at times, cause us to feel confused and in so much pain?