---
title:  When A Road To Nowhere Leads To the promised land
date:  10/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“When Pharaoh came near, the people of Israel looked and saw the Egyptians coming after them. And they were filled with fear and cried out to the Lord” (Exodus 14:10, NLV).

Some surprises are not very pleasant. Have you driven down a road that doesn’t lead you where you want to go? Maybe mean bullies at school picked on you when you were a kid. Or a coworker tried to make you look bad at work. These experiences can be nasty surprises, right?

When the children of Israel get to the Red Sea, they get a surprise they do not expect. But they should not have been afraid. God led them from the day they left Egypt until they arrived in the Promised Land. “The Lord led the way. During the day, he used a tall cloud to lead the people. And during the night, he used a tall column [cloud] of fire to lead the way. This fire gave them light so that they could [may] also travel at night” (Exodus 13:21, ERV). God led Israel during every part of their trip. But look at where He leads them first: to a difficult place. The Red Sea is in front of them. The mountains are on the left and right. Worse, Pharaoh’s army is right behind them. The Egyptians are so close that the Israelites can see them!

`Why does God lead the Israelites to a place where He knows they will be afraid? Read Exodus 14 for the answer.`

Just because God leads us does not mean that bad things won’t happen in life. When God trains us to be holy, life can often be a difficult experience. God can lead us to places, people, and happenings that are hard tests. These tests show us the evil in our hearts. During these difficult times, we may wonder if we are really following God. How can we know the answer? We know that we are following God when our hearts are open to His teaching.

`What lesson do the Israelites learn from their experience at the Red Sea? Read Exodus 14:31 for the answer.`

`Why is trusting God so hard for us? Think of a difficult time that God used to teach you to trust in Him.`