---
title:  Water That Tastes Bad 
date:  11/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“The Israelites left the western Sinai desert. They traveled all together from place to place as the Lord commanded. They camped at Rephidim, but there was no water for the people to drink” (Exodus 17:1, ERV).

We may not get from God everything we want. But we can expect that God will give us everything we need, right? Not everything we “think” we need, but what God knows we really need.

One thing the Israelites needed was water. God just led the Israelites through the Red Sea. Then the Israelites followed God in the cloud through the hot desert for three days. There was no water anywhere. The Israelites started to panic. We can understand their fear. When will they get the water that they need?

So, where does God lead them? The tall cloud goes to Marah, where the people find water. The Israelites must feel so excited. But when they taste the water, they spit it out. The water tastes awful! “The people complained to Moses, saying, ‘What can we drink?’ ” (Exodus 15:24, NLV).

Then, a few days later, God gives His people another water test. This time the tall cloud stops where there is no water at all (Exodus 17:1).

`What does God show Israel about Himself at both Marah and Rephidim? What lessons should the Israelites have learned? Read Exodus 15:22–27 and Exodus 17:1–7 for the answers.`

`What question do the children of Israel ask while in Rephidim? Read Exodus 17:7 for the answer. Have you ever asked the same question? If yes, what happened? What lessons did you learn after God answered your question? Why do we need to stop asking this question?`