---
title:  The War Between Good And Evil In The Desert 
date:  12/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Jesus was full of [filled with] the Holy Spirit. He [Jesus] left the Jordan River, and the Spirit led him into the desert for forty days. The devil tried to make him [Jesus] do wrong. Jesus did not eat in [during] those forty days. Then he was very hungry” (Luke 4:1, 2, WE).

`Read the story in Luke 4:1–13. What lessons can you learn from this story about how to win the war against sin?`

Saying no to sin can be so hard because our evil hearts enjoy doing the wrong thing. So, that makes it easy for us to want to give in to sin. The wish to sin often fills our hearts at times when we don’t want to say no, too.

Luke 4 tells the story about how Satan tries to get Jesus to do wrong in the desert. At first, we may think that the Holy Spirit leads Jesus to sin. But the Bible shows us that God never tries to get us to sin (James 1:13). As we already saw, God does give us difficult tests. Luke 4 shows us that the Holy Spirit can lead us to times of testing. During these times, Satan may attack us and try to get us to sin. We may not understand what is happening to us. So, we may think that we have not been following God in the correct way. But this idea is not always true.

“Sometimes God leads us into trouble and hard times. Then we often doubt if God’s Spirit has led us. But we must remember that the Spirit led Jesus into the desert. There, Satan tried to get Jesus to do what was wrong. When God brings us into hard times, He has a plan for us. This test is for our own good. Jesus did not go into the desert alone. He allowed God to lead Him. . . . Jesus also did not give up or lose hope when Satan tried to get Him to do wrong. We should do what Jesus did.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 126, 129, adapted.

Sometimes, when God gives us a hard test, we feel “burned.” We don’t feel we are made clean by the test. So, it is very comforting to know that when we fail, we can hope again. Why? Because Jesus stayed loyal to God. Jesus carried our sins for us to the cross. That is good news. He paid the penalty for our sins when we failed to say no to sin. Jesus suffered worse than we will ever suffer. God accepts us because of Jesus. There is hope, even for the worst sinner on earth (1 Timothy 1:15).