---
title:  The Hope Of New Skies And A New Earth 
date:  13/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read 1 Peter 1:6, 7. What does Peter say in these verses?`

Peter writes to people who suffer. Often, these people feel very alone. These suffering ones “were taken away from their homeland and are living in the countries of Pontus and Galatia and Cappadocia and Asia and Bithynia” (1 Peter 1:1, NLV). Today, we know this area as the country of western Turkey. A few verses later, Peter says that he knows that his readers feel sad. They have had many hard tests of faith. They had “to suffer for a little while” (1 Peter 1:6, NIrV).

Peter says that God’s people “were taken away from their homeland and were living in” other countries for many years (1 Peter 1:1, NLV). Was it easy or hard for God’s people to be away from home? Explain your answer.

In New Testament times, being a Christian was a new experience. There were very few Christians in those days. At best, people did not understand who Christians were. At worst, people attacked Christians and hurt them. Peter tells Christians that their experience is not strange. Yes, they may be sad for a while because of their suffering and many tests. But there is a reason for these tests (1 Peter 1:6, 7). God sends them tests to help them grow in faith.

`What hope does Peter want Christians to have while they are having troubles and tests of faith? Read 1 Peter 1:6–9 for the answer. What does this hope mean for us, too?`

Sure, we may suffer. We may have hard times in life. But everlasting life waits for us! Jesus will give us this gift when He comes back. Peter’s words to the Christians in his time are God’s words to us today. Yes, we may suffer many painful things in life. But we must always remember the gift of everlasting life that waits for us on the new earth. Then we will have a life free from pain, suffering, and death. This promise is so wonderful! Jesus’ death makes this promise possible. So, we must keep our faith when we suffer hard times. We must ask the Lord to remove from our hearts any doubt that blocks our faith.