---
title:  Tests Of Faith 
date:  14/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Alex got into trouble when he was a young man. He did drugs. He got into fights. He also spent some time in jail. But then Alex learned about God from a local church member. (The church member caught Alex stealing his stuff!) The church member was kind. He forgave Alex. Alex gave his heart to Jesus. Sure, Alex continued to have problems, both new and from the past. But now Alex was a new person in Jesus Christ. Alex loved God and wanted to show God how much he loved Him. So, Alex obeyed God’s commandments (1 John 5:1, 2). Alex felt that God wanted him to serve Him fully and to preach. So, Alex decided to go to school to become a pastor.

At college, things went well for Alex, at first. Then one thing after another started to go wrong. Alex’s life started to fall apart. Alex’s money ran out. Then a close friend turned against Alex. The friend started to say bad things about Alex to other people. These bad things were not true, but many people believed the worst about Alex. Next, Alex kept getting sick. No doctor knew what was wrong with Alex. But soon Alex was too sick to go to class. He felt that he must drop out of school. On top of all of that, Alex started to do drugs again. Alex didn’t understand why all these bad things happened. He was so sure God led him to this school. Was Alex wrong about that? If yes, was his whole experience with God a big mistake or a lie? Then Alex started to doubt the most basic Bible truth.

`What if Alex came to you during this time and asked you for advice? What advice will you give him? How can your own experiences in life help someone with Alex’s problems? What Bible verses will you share? Read Proverbs 3; Jeremiah 29:13; Romans 8:28; 2 Corinthians 12:9; and Hebrews 13:5. How can these verses be helpful to people who suffer?`

`Almost everyone who follows the Lord has suffered. During hard times, we may doubt that the Lord is leading us. We must remember to hold on to God’s promises. We also must remember how God led us in the past. Then we must pray for faith and the strength to continue. The Lord won’t give up on us. The question for us is: How do we keep from giving up on Him?`