---
title:  Further Thought
date:  15/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Exodus,” pages 281–290; and “From the Red Sea to Sinai,” pages 291–302, in Patriarchs and Prophets; and “The Temptation,” pages 114–123, in The Desire of Ages.

“In Bible times, the Lord led His people to Rephidim. He may choose to lead us there, too. Why? To test us. The Lord wants to see if we will obey Him and be loyal to Him. God does not always bring us to pleasant places in life. If God did, we would forget that He is our Helper. God wishes to show Himself to us. He wants to show us all the wonderful things He has made to take care of all our needs. So, God permits tests and hard times to come to us. These hard times teach us that we are helpless. During these times, we learn to turn to God for help. God can cause cool water to flow from hard, dry rock. When we see God face-to-face, we shall know how many heavy loads God carried for us. We also shall learn how many heavy loads the Lord wanted to carry for us if only we had let Him.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, April 7, 1903, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`We often talk about sin as something we fight against personally. Also, are there sins we need to fight against as a family or as a church? If yes, what are these sins?`

`In class, ask for volunteers to talk about experiences they had in life that were “not very pleasant.” What if your class members have these experiences today? Will they behave in a different way now?`

`We all understand the reason for the tests that God gives us. God wants to make us holy and our hearts clean. God wants to prove that we are loyal to Him. How do we explain why God gives us hard tests? Here is an example: someone is killed in a car crash. As a class, try to come up with a few possible answers for this tough question.`

`As a class, take time together to pray for each other. Ask God to help you to be strong to endure tests and to stay strong in faith.`

`Does your class know anyone who stopped coming to church because of a hard test? If yes, what can you do as a class to help lead this person back to Jesus?`