---
title:  What Is the Fight Really About?
date:   06/04/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Luke 19:41–44; Mat­thew 23:37, 38; Psalm 46:1; Isaiah 41:10; Acts 2:41; Acts 2:44–47; John 13:35; The Great Controversy, chapters 1–2.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘So don’t worry, because I am with you. Don’t be afraid, because I am your God. I will make you strong and will help you. I will support you with my right hand that saves you’ ” (Isaiah 41:10, ICB).

Make this picture in your mind: You are a shepherd in Bible times. You herd your sheep on the Mount of Olives. You can see the city of Jerusalem and the temple from the hillside. While you watch your flock, you hear people talking. One of the people is Jesus. His words to His followers surprise you. You can see that His followers also are surprised.

The afternoon sun shines on the roof of the temple while Jesus talks. The marble walls of the temple gleam snowy white in the light. “ ‘Do you see all these things?’ Jesus asked. ‘What I’m about to tell you is true. Not one stone here will be left on top of another. Every stone will be thrown down’ ” (Matthew 24:2, NIrV). What is Jesus saying?

Jesus explains how Jerusalem will be destroyed. Jesus also talks about Satan’s end-time lies. Jesus warns about the things that will happen on earth before He comes back, too. We can read about these things in Matthew 24. This week, we will study Satan’s two-part plan to trick and destroy God’s people. Satan’s tricks may surprise us, but his tricks never surprise God. For sure, God always protects His people in the most difficult times.