---
title:  A Broken-hearted Savior
date:   07/04/2024
---

Jesus sat on the Mount of Olives. From where Jesus sat, He could see the whole city of Jerusalem. Jesus’ heart was broken. Why? John tells us: Jesus “came to the world [the earth and everything in it] that was his own. But his own people did not accept him” (John 1:11, ICB). Jesus did everything to save His people from the coming disaster. Their beloved city, Jerusalem, was going to be destroyed.

Jesus loved His people. With love in His heart, He asked them to stop sinning and to accept His mercy.

`Read Luke 19:41–44; Matthew 23:37, 38; and John 5:40. What do these verses tell you about how Jesus felt about His people? How did He feel when they rejected His offer of mercy and forgiveness? What do these verses teach us about Jesus?`

Many people ask, If God loved His people, why did He allow Jerusalem to be destroyed? The Roman general Titus led his armies against the city. Thousands of people died in the fight. Jerusalem was destroyed. The Roman soldiers killed many men, women, and children. Where was God when His people suffered so much?

The answer is plain. But it is not easy to understand. Jesus’ heart was broken. Jesus was crying. In the past, Jesus tried again and again to touch the hearts of His people. But His people fought against His love for hundreds of years. Soon Jesus could not protect or bless them anymore. God doesn’t always stop bad things from happening when we make wrong choices. He often allows us to suffer the penalty of our wrong choices. God didn’t cause the Romans to kill innocent children in Jerusalem at the time the city was destroyed. Satan was responsible for those killings, not God.

Satan loves war. Fighting causes the worst feelings to grow in the human heart. Satan’s plan is to trick and destroy people and then blame God for his evil actions.

`What did Jesus tell His people to do to save them from the Roman soldiers who were coming to destroy Jerusalem? Read Matthew 24:15–20 for the answer.`

God wanted to save as many of His people as possible. So, He told His people to escape the city when they saw the Roman army.