---
title:  The Son Of Man Comes Back
date:   08/04/2024
---

God knows the future before it happens. We can see His knowledge about the future, His mercy, and His love in the things that happen just before the Romans destroy Jerusalem. Cestius Gallus, a Roman general, marches his army around Jerusalem to attack it. Right before the attack, the Roman army turns away from the city. The Jewish army chases the Roman army and wins a mighty battle.

At this time, the Christians in Jerusalem escape from the city. The Christians run to Pella, a city in the land of Perea, beyond the Jordan River. “Jesus promised His people a sign. When the sign came, the waiting Christians obeyed the Savior’s warning. God controlled what happened so that the Jews and the Romans couldn’t stop the Christians from leaving the city.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 30, adapted.

`Read Psalm 46:1 and Isaiah 41:10. What do these ­verses tell us about God’s loving watch care?`

God is in control of everything that happens in heaven and on earth. He can control things on earth so that His plans will happen, just as He promises in the Bible. At times, God changes His first plans because of the ­choices we make. But we can be sure that God’s plans for us will happen. We may suffer hard times. People may hurt or attack us because of our faith. They may throw us into prison. We may die for our faith. In the worst of times, God continues to protect His church and keep His people safe.

`Read Hebrews 11:35–38 and Revelation 2:10. What do these verses teach us about our fight against Satan? How do these verses help us understand the idea that God keeps His people safe? If God keeps His people safe, why does He allow them sometimes to suffer or die for their faith?`

“Satan tried to destroy God’s church, but he failed. Jesus’ followers died for their faith. Yes, Jesus’ followers were killed. But His work continued.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 41, adapted.

`The Bible writers suffered much. But they wrote about God’s love. How has God shown His love to you?`