---
title:  Loyal To God When Attacked
date:   09/04/2024
---

The Christian church grew fast. Thousands of people gave their lives to Jesus and joined His church.

`Read Acts 2:41; Acts 4:4, 31; Acts 5:42; and Acts 8:1–8. What do these verses teach us about Satan’s attacks against the church? Why did the church grow so fast?`

Jesus’ followers were told to stop preaching about Jesus (Acts 4:17). They were thrown into prison (Acts 5:17, 18). They were hurt and attacked for their faith (Acts 8:1); and they were killed because of their beliefs (Acts 7:59; Acts 12:2). The Holy Spirit filled Jesus’ followers with strength and courage. They bravely announced the good news that Jesus woke up from the dead. The church grew in Judea, Galilee, and Samaria (Acts 9:31).

Faith filled the hearts of Jesus’ followers. What made them so brave? They looked at Jesus after He woke up from the dead. That one look changed their lives forever. Jesus gave His followers a new reason for living. Our Lord also gave them His Great Commisson (Important Work) (Mark 16:15). He gave them this promise, too: “ ‘But you will receive [get] power when the Holy Spirit comes into your life. You will tell about Me in the city of Jerusalem and over [in the rest of] all the countries of Judea and Samaria and to the ends [every part] of the earth’ ” (Acts 1:8, NLV).

Jesus’ Twelve Followers shared the Good News everywhere (Colossians 1:23). John was the last of the Twelve to die. He died at the end of the first century (A.D. 1 to A.D. 100). After John, other Christians announced the Good News about the living Jesus. Pliny the Younger wrote a letter about Christians. Pliny was the governor of the land of Bithynia, on the north coast of modern Turkey. In A.D. 110, about 80 years after Jesus died, Pliny wrote to Emperor Trajan. Pliny said, “Christian men and women, rich and poor alike, are attacked for their faith. These attacks will continue. Christianity is the same as a disease. This ‘disease’ fills the cities and villages.”—Henry Bettenson, Documents of the Christian Church (New York: Oxford University Press, 2011), page 4, adapted.

Satan attacked God’s church. But the church grew fast.

`What can we learn from the church in New Testament times that can help us in the end times?`