---
title:  Caring For The Community
date:   10/04/2024
---

The New Testament church grew because its members preached and lived the Good News. Jesus’ followers did the work that Jesus did when He lived on this earth. “Jesus went everywhere in the country of Galilee. He taught in the synagogues and told the Good News about God’s kingdom. And he healed all the people’s diseases and sicknesses” (Matthew 4:23, ERV). Jesus cared deeply for people. The New Testament church cared deeply for people, too. The church grew because its members were unselfish. Church members helped people in need. They shared the Good News with everyone everywhere. Because church members did these things, they changed lives and made life better.

`Read Acts 2:44–47; Acts 3:6–9; and Acts 6:1–7. What important rule can we learn from these verses about being a real Christian?`

The New Testament Christians followed Jesus’ example. Peter says, “ ‘You know how God anointed [filled] Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power [might]. Jesus went around doing good. He healed all [people] who were under the devil’s power [control]. God was with him’ ” (Acts 10:38, NIrV). Jesus’ church is the same as His body on this earth. During the early years, the church showed Jesus’ love to people who were hurt and broken. These Christians were living examples of Jesus’ love.

In the worldwide war between good and evil, Satan wants humans to stop loving God. The Good News about Jesus helps people to become as holy as God again in their hearts and minds. Jesus wants to heal people and make them whole. He wants to heal their bodies, minds, hearts, and spirit. In John 10:10, Jesus tells us His plan for each one of us: “ ‘A thief comes to steal, kill, and destroy. But I came to give life . . . life that is full and good’ ” (ERV).

Jesus’ words in Matthew 24 and Luke 21 tell us that terrible things will happen right before Jesus comes back. So, more than ever, people need the healing touch of Jesus. When Jesus touches us with His healing mercy, we want to touch other people’s lives with His mercy, too. Then they can be made whole. Jesus sends us as His helpers to touch people’s hearts with love. New Testament Christians loved each other in this way and the people in their communities.