---
title:  The Gift Of Love
date:   11/04/2024
---

`Read John 13:35 and 1 John 4:21. What do these verses teach us about what it means to be a real Christian?`

The early Christian church was a loving church. One of the leaders of the early church was named Tertullian. Tertullian wrote about the church’s love: “Many people hate us because of the loving things we do. These people make fun of us and say, ‘See how much those Christians love each other!’ ” (See Tertullian’s Apology 39, S. Thelwall, translator, adapted.)

The church showed God’s love in a special way two times, in A.D. 160 and A.D. 260. During these times, a terrible disease made many people sick. Christians volunteered to take care of the sick and the dying. The disease killed thousands of people. In some villages and towns, almost everyone got sick and died. The Christians’ unselfish spirit changed many lives. Millions of people in the Roman Empire became Christians during these times of sickness. The Christians showed Jesus’ love to the sick and dying. The church took care of the sick when no one else would help them.

Rodney Stark wrote a book about the Christians who took care of the sick and dying in A.D. 160 and A.D. 260. Stark’s book helps us understand what happened during those times in a new and improved way. Stark explains how the whole Christian community served as nurses during the second sickness. These Christians took care of the basic needs of the sick and suffering. Stark writes, “During the worst of the second sickness, around A.D. 260, many local Christians lost their lives while taking care of the sick.

“Many Christians showed unselfish love and loyalty. They did not think about their own needs. They thought only of helping the ones who suffered. The Christians did not worry about danger. They took care of every need of the sick. They cared for them the way Jesus cared for the sick. Many of these Christians got sick and died. But they accepted their suffering and sickness with good cheer.”—Rodney Stark, The Rise of Christianity (Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press, 1996), page 82, adapted.

`What does this story about Christian love teach us? How do we learn to die to self so that we, too, can have this same spirit?`