---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   12/04/2024
---

“Satan’s effort to destroy God’s work on earth failed. God’s people continued to share the Good News. The church continued to grow. Jesus’ followers took the Good News into places where the Roman army failed to enter. At this time, many Roman leaders were torturing Christians for their faith. A Christian told some of these leaders: ‘You may kill us, hurt us, and accuse us. . . . Your actions are not fair. They are proof that we are innocent. . . . Your mean and nasty ways won’t help you win against us.’ The worse the Romans were to the Christians, the more other people wanted to join the church. The Christian said, ‘The more often you kill us, the more we Christians grow in number. The blood of Christians is the same as seed that caused the church to grow.’—Tertullian, Apology, paragraph 50.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 41, 42, adapted.

“Many people are weak in faith. They can’t understand why God allows evil people to hurt the innocent. People who are weak in faith can’t understand this mystery. They are confused. Some of them are ready to stop trusting in God because He allows awful men to enjoy success while good and holy men suffer. The awful men also hurt these good and holy men. The Christians who are weak in faith ask, ‘If God is fair, filled with mercy, and all-powerful, why does He permit evil men to do all these terrible things?’ We must not ask this question. God has given us enough proof of His love. We must not doubt His mercy because we can’t understand how God works and why He allows some things to happen.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 47, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What does suffering for our faith teach us? Why do you think that God allows His people to suffer at times?`

`What if a friend asked you these questions: “Where is God when I suffer? If He loves me, why am I having so many problems?” How would you answer your friend?`

`How can your local church become a caring community that helps other people? Talk about ways your church can use the things you learned from this week’s lesson to help people.`