---
title:  Dusty, Deadly, and Deceptive
date:  21/05/2023
---

#### inGest

Down through the centuries God has always had a people who have been faithful to Him. Revelation 12:17 describes their faithfulness as those who “keep the commandments of God,” and also who are elsewhere depicted as “called, and chosen, and faithful” (Rev. 17:14). John wrote the book of Revelation at the end of the first century. By that time, the ancient city of Babylon was a dust heap, having been destroyed more than a century earlier.

In Revelation the ancient city of Babylon is taken to be a type, or symbol, of the end-time Babylon. In the prophecies of Revelation, Babylon represents a false religious system that will have similar characteristics to Old Testament Babylon, a place of extreme moral depravity. The principles that guided ancient Babylon will be the undergirding structure of the modern spiritual Babylon.

In Revelation 17:1–6, a woman dressed in purple and scarlet rides across the landscape of time on a scarlet-colored beast. The Bible calls her a harlot. She has left Jesus Christ. Here the apostle John gives us a graphic portrayal of an apostate system of religion that has powerful influence in the world. Look at the wording: this power was one with “whom the kings of the earth committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth were made drunk with the wine of her fornication” (Rev. 17:2). Drunkenness is always a negative in the Bible, and fornication is symbolic of the false teachings, false doctrine, and immoral practices that characterize wicked societies.

The fallen church system has an international reach, influencing people in every corner of the world with her deceptions. Satan is enraged that the gospel will be proclaimed to every “nation, tribe, tongue, and people” (Rev. 14:6), that this “gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world” (Matt. 24:14), so he employs every possible deception to captivate the minds of the “inhabitants of the earth” (Rev. 17:2).

Revelation 17:2 also declares that she has “committed fornication” with the kings of the earth. Fornication in this context is an illicit union—in the fallen church system, uniting with the state. In the true church system, the church is united with Jesus Christ. The fallen church looks to the political leaders of the earth for power and authority. It seeks the state to enforce its decrees rather than drawing its strength from Jesus as its true head.

Revelation 17:2 continues its dramatic portrayal: “And the inhabitants of the earth were made drunk with the wine of her fornication.” The symbolism of the pure juice of the grape is used throughout the New Testament to represent the untainted, pure blood of Christ poured out for our salvation on the cross (Matt. 26:27–29). In Luke 22:20 Jesus says, “This cup is the new covenant in My blood.” When the pure, new wine of the gospel is distorted and the teachings of the Word of God are substituted for the teachings of human religious leaders, it becomes the “wine of Babylon” (see Matt. 15:9).

Notice, too, that God calls His people out of Babylon. In other words, no matter how corrupt and evil the system is, its reach is so wide that it encompasses, at least for a certain time, His faithful ones, whom He calls “my people” (Rev. 18:4). Yet the time is coming when God will call them out of that corrupt and evil system, which is about to fall because of its corrupt and evil nature. It is described as the “dwelling place of demons” and the “cage for every unclean and hated bird” (verse 2).

Journal:

`With both leaders and the common people alike negatively influenced by this evil power, what’s our only protection? (Read Eph. 6:10–18.)`

`What role do those who proclaim the three angels’ messages have in being used by God to call “my people,” His people, out of Babylon?`

` `