---
title:  Who Is Babylon?
date:  22/05/2023
---

#### inTerpret

As we have seen, Revelation 17 describes an apostate religious system that introduces many of the teachings of Old Testament Babylon into Christianity. To better understand the nature of this ancient civilization, Ángel Manuel Rodríguez says, “we need to go back to its first reference in the biblical record, in Genesis. It all began on the plain of the land of Shinar, a region in the southern part of Mesopotamia, today south Iraq, called Babylonia. It is there that the Tower of Babel was built, a symbol of human self-sufficiency, self-preservation, and independence from God ([Gen.] 11:1–4)” (“The Closing of the Cosmic Conflict: Role of the Three Angels’ Messages,” unpublished paper, 43).

The Tower of Babel, the site of ancient Babylon, was built in direct defiance to the Word of God. The people built this monument for their own glory, and God consequently confused their languages. The Genesis account puts it this way: “Therefore its name is called Babel, because there the Lord confused the language of all the earth” (Gen. 11:9). “Babylon” means “confusion.” This system is so evil that it is depicted as being “drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus” (Rev. 17:6)—horrific images of just how corrupt Babylon is (see also Isa. 49:26).

In essence, spiritual Babylon represents a religion based on human teachings, established on human ideas, and supported by human traditions. It is a form of human-made religion built by perhaps brilliant human religious leaders, but it stands in direct opposition to the power of the gospel and the church that Jesus built—a church built on love, not violence.

The book of Revelation describes these two opposing systems of religion. The first reveals total trust in Jesus and dependence on His Word. The second reveals trust in human authority and dependence of human religious teachers. One is a Christ-centered faith built on total dependence on Christ’s grace, sacrifice, and atonement for salvation, while the other is a humanistic approach to faith that replaces the total dependence on Christ for salvation with a dependence on the traditions of the church.

Jeremiah 50 and 51 predict Babylon’s destruction by the Medes and Persians. One of the reasons for Babylon’s demise was their idolatry. The Babylonians believed these images to be representations of their deities. In Babylonian religion the ritual care and worship of the statues of deities was considered sacred, as the gods lived simultaneously in their statues and in the natural forces they embodied. The pillaging or destruction of idols was considered to be loss of divine patronage, exemplified by the story of the Chaldean prince Marduk-apla-iddina II, who, during the Neo-Babylonian period, fled into the southern marshes of Mesopotamia with the statues of Babylon’s gods to save them from the armies of Sennacherib of Assyria (Jane R. McIntosh, Ancient Mesopotamia: New Perspectives [Santa Barbara, Calif.:ABC-CLIO, Inc., 2005], 35–43). The prophets of the Bible contrasted the worship of these lifeless images with the Creator God, who was both alive and lifegiving (Jer. 51:15, 16, 19).

Though the issues of spiritual Babylon’s idolatry go deeper than just bowing before images of wood and stone, spiritual Babylon does parallel ancient Babylon in the sense that images were introduced into both of their worship services. The use of images as objects of worship, or “veneration,” is a clear violation of the second commandment not only because the Bible decisively commands us not to engage in idol worship but also because it limits the ability of the Holy Spirit to impress upon our minds the things of eternity and reduces the majesty of God to a lifeless statue. These images were introduced into Christianity in the fourth century to make Christianity more acceptable to the pagan populace. Unfortunately, these images are often given the sacredness and homage that belong to God alone, which makes the whole thing spiritually degrading.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can we protect ourselves from the subtle influences of Babylon, such as the tendency, easy as it is, to depend on ourselves and not wholly on God?`

` `