---
title:  A Call to Commitment
date:  24/05/2023
---

#### inVite

Revelation’s appeal is an urgent call to commitment, summarized in the symbolism of the two women in Revelation. Although at times it will appear that God’s people have been defeated in the cosmic controversy between truth and falsity, God promises that His church will triumph in the end.

Christ is the solid foundation His church is built upon. His church is based on the teachings of His Word and is guided by His Spirit. On the contrary, Babylon, as we have seen, is rooted in human-made teachings and traditions. Any religious leader who substitutes human opinions or traditions in place of or above the revealed will of God in the Scriptures is simply fostering Babylonian ideology.

In the days of ancient Babylon, church and state were one and the same. When King Nebuchadnezzar sat in his temple on his royal throne, he supposedly spoke for the gods. On one occasion, as an act of defiance against the true God, the Babylonian king passed a universal decree that commanded all his subjects to bow to his image, a powerful foreshadowing of what God’s faithful people, those who refuse to worship the false image, will face in the last days (see Dan. 3).

A church-state system, spiritual Babylon, will arise in the final days of earth’s history and will have a spiritual leader who claims to speak as God. His word will be declared as the very word of God, and his commands the commands of God. Throughout the centuries the Roman popes have declared that they stand in the place of God on earth, summarized in the encyclical letter of June 20, 1894, written by Pope Leo XIII: “We hold upon this earth the place of Almighty God.” The Ferraris Ecclesiastical Dictionary adds, “The Pope is of so great dignity and so exalted that he is not a mere man, but as it were God and the vicar of God.” The apostle Paul says these words to expose this kind of power: “the man of sin . . .opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God or that is worshiped, so that he sits as God in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God” (2 Thess. 2:3, 4). Though many may not realize it, this church-state system is in direct contradiction to the Word of God.

Daniel 3—the story of the three Hebrews who had been ordered to “worship the gold image that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up” (verse 5) in ancient Babylon—stands as a symbol, a model, of what will happen when spiritual Babylon, in the last days, will enforce worship of a false “image,” as well (see Rev. 13:15; 14:9, 11; 16:2; 19:20; Rev. 20:4). How interesting that the commandment that the three Hebrews would have violated, the second commandment (Exod. 20:4, 5), was one of the two commandments that this power, depicted in another place as seeking “to change times and laws” (Dan. 7:25), had tampered with.

What was the other commandment it tampered with? Of course, the fourth commandment, which, as we have seen and will see again, sits at the heart of the whole question of worship and will be central in the final crisis when we face the question of whether we will worship the One who “made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day” (Exod. 20:11; see also Rev. 14:7), or the beast and his image.

Journal:

`Meditate on Revelation 17 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What are some ways the church been a protective gift from Jesus to you against Babylon?`

`How do you see Jesus differently in the light of this week’s lesson?`

` `