---
title:  Further Thought
date:  16/02/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Sinner’s Need of Christ,” pp. 17-22, in Steps to Christ.

In the Psalms, the voices of God’s people join as one in repeating the chorus “His mercy endures forever” in celebration of God’s eternal love (Ps. 106:1, NKJV; Ps. 107:1, NKJV; Ps. 118:1-4, 29, NKJV; Psalm 136, NKJV). “Not to praise God would mean to forget all His benefits, not to appreciate God’s gifts. Only those who praise do not forget. Thinking and speaking about God is not yet praising Him. Praise begins when one acknowledges God’s majesty and works and responds with adoration of His goodness, mercy, and wisdom.”—Hans LaRondelle, Deliverance in the Psalms, p. 178.

The significance of the solemn confession of God’s enduring mercy gains even deeper significance when we remember that God’s khesed—namely His covenantal loving-kindness and faithfulness—stands firm and unchanging amid human sin and rebellion against God.

“We have sinned against Him, and are undeserving of His favor; yet He Himself has put into our lips that most wonderful of pleas, ‘Do not abhor us, for Thy name’s sake; do not disgrace the throne of Thy glory; remember, break not Thy covenant with us.’ Jer. 14:21. When we come to Him confessing our unworthiness and sin, He has pledged Himself to give heed to our cry. The honor of His throne is staked for the fulfillment of His word unto us.”—Ellen G. White, _Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 148.

Experiencing God’s graciousness to him (Ps. 103:2) encourages the psalmist to say that “the Lord executes righteousness and justice for _all_ who are oppressed” (Ps. 103:6, NKJV; emphasis supplied). Thus, the final aim of the psalmist’s personal testimony, and praise of God’s mercy in his life, is to reassure others of God’s loving-kindness so that they, too, can open their hearts to God and receive His saving grace and praise God (Ps. 9:11, 12; Ps. 22:22-27; Ps. 66:16).

**Discussion Questions**:

`What are the practical implications of the fact that God’s mercy is everlasting for the people’s salvation? Why does this not mean that one can continue sinning because God’s mercy is forever?`

`How do we reconcile God’s forgiveness of our sins with the idea of God’s judgment on sin?`

`How do the expressions of God’s mercy in the New Testament fit with those in the Psalms (Eph. 2:4, 5; 1 Tim. 1:16; Titus 3:5; Heb. 4:16)?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Upward Look_, “The Results of Inner Renewal,” p. 30;\
_Selected Messages, book 1_, “Let Christ Appear,” pp. 155, 156.