---
title:  Living in a 24-7 Society
date:  26/06/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Gen. 2:1–3, Jer. 45:1–5, Exod. 20:11, 2 Sam. 7:12, Mark 6:30–32, Gen. 4:1–17.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “My soul longs, yes, even faints for the courts of the Lord; my heart and my flesh cry out for the living God” (Ps. 84:2, NKJV).

Tick, tock; tick, tock; tick, tock. The clock ticked steadily and mercilessly. Only two hours before Sabbath would begin, Mary sighed as she surveyed the small apartment. The kids’ toys were still lying all around the living room; the kitchen was a mess; Sarah, their youngest, lay in bed with a fever; and tomorrow Mary had agreed to serve as a greeter in their church, which meant that they had to leave home 30 minutes before the normal time. I wish I could find some quiet­ness tomorrow, Mary thought wistfully.

At the same time, on the other side of town, Josh, Mary’s husband, was standing in line to pay for their weekly groceries. Traffic had again been a nightmare. The checkout lines were long. Everyone seemed to be doing their shopping right at that moment. I need some rest; I can’t go on like this, Josh groaned inwardly. There must be more to this life.

Our lives are governed by rush hours, work hours, medical appointments, virtual conversations, shopping, and school functions. Whether we use public transport, ride a small scooter, or steer a minivan to ferry around our families, the drumbeat of constant engagement with the world around us threatens to drown out what’s really important.

How do we find rest amid so much hustle and bustle?

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, July 3._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We apologize that the daily quotes by Ellen White are temporarily unavailable. We are working toward providing supplemental quotations again in the very near future!