---
title:  Come Back To The Lord!
date:  20/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Deuteronomy 5:22–29; Deuteronomy 30:1–10; Matthew 3:1–8; Acts 2:38.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “  ‘But there in these other lands you will look for the Lord your God. And if you look for him with all your heart and soul [spirit], you will find him’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:29, ERV).

WE ALL HAVE SINNED. Sometimes an “expert” may complain about the Christian teaching that says we are sinners. But all we need to do is watch the news today or look at human history. Then we will see that this teaching is correct. Or just look in the mirror. If you have the courage to look deep inside your heart, you will know that Romans 3:9–23 shows us the truth about ourselves as humans: “All [people] have done wrong and all are far from being as good as God” (Romans 3:23, WE).

Of course, we read the good news in the next verse: “Anyone can be made right with God by the free gift of His loving-favor. It is Jesus Christ Who bought them with His blood and made them free from their sins” (Romans 3:24, NLV). An important part of the good news is our being sorry for our sins. We also need to confess our sins to God and tell Him we are sorry. We need to ask for His forgiveness, too. Then we must turn away from our sin. Because we are sinners, our turning away from sin should be an important part of our Christian life. This week, we will see what Deuteronomy has to say about turning away from sin.