---
title:  “Mi Yitten”
date:  21/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Hebrew language in the Bible often uses special sayings. These sayings are named idioms. We cannot understand an idiom by knowing the separate meanings of its words. That is because idioms have meanings that are different from their separate words. One idiom in the Old Testament is “mi-yitten.” “Mi” is a question. It means “Who?” “Yitten” means “will give.” So, “mi-yitten” really means “Who will give?” But “mi-yitten” is also an idiom. So, this saying also has another meaning that is different from its separate words. In the Old Testament Hebrew language, “mi-yitten” shows a wish of someone who wants something very much.

Let us look at some examples of this saying in the Bible. Soon after Israel escaped Egypt, they felt discouraged in the desert. So, they complained to Moses and Aaron, “ ‘We wish the Lord had put us to death in Egypt’ ” (Exodus 16:3, NIrV). Do you see the word written as “wish” in this verse? This word comes from “mi-yitten.”

In Psalm 14:7, David says, “How I pray that the God who saves Israel will come out of Zion!” The Hebrew language does not say “How I pray.” The Hebrew language says “mi-yitten.”

In Job 6:8 (ERV), Job cries out, “ ‘I wish I could have what I ask for.’ ” Again, the words written as “I wish” come from “mi-yitten” in the Hebrew language.

Read Deuteronomy 5:22–29. Look closely at verse 29. In this verse, the words written as “ ‘I wish’ ” come from the words “mi-yitten” in the Hebrew language. The Lord is the one who talks in this verse. What important Bible truth do these words show us about the Lord?

`The Lord made time, space, and everything good. The Lord breathed into Adam the breath of life. He made our earth with His words. This same all-powerful God now says the words that weak humans say. These words show us that humans have limits. So, what do these same words show us about God? They show us something very important about the gift of free choice that God gave us. God Himself is limited in what He can do in the worldwide war between good and evil. “Mi-yitten” in Deuteronomy 5:29 shows us that even God cannot go against our free choice. If He did, then our free choice will no longer be free.`