---
title:  Look For Him And Find Him 
date:  22/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

All through the Bible, we see proof that God knows what will happen before it happens. God knows who will control the earth until the end of tine (read Daniel 7). God knows what people will do hours before they do it, as we see in the story about Peter: “ ‘Jesus said to him, “For sure, I tell you, before a rooster crows this night, you will say three times you do not know Me’ ” (Matthew 26:34, NLV). So, the Lord knows what the children of Israel will do when He brings them into the Promised Land.

`Read Deuteronomy 4:25–28. What does the Lord say that His chosen people will do after they have lived in the Promised Land for a while?`

In Deuteronomy 4:15–20, the Lord warns His people not to make statues of gods or worship them. But the next verses say that the people are going to do that anyway!

Now look at Deuteronomy 4:25. Do you see that Moses says the people will not worship false gods right away? That is because the people had an awful experience with idol worship at Baal Peor. So, they are not about to start worshiping false gods any time soon. But over time, their children or grandchildren will “ ‘forget’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:9, ERV) everything the Lord did for them and His warnings. Then the Israelites will do exactly what God warned them not to do.

`Read Deuteronomy 4:29–31. What does the Lord promise in these verses that He will do for His people?`

The mercy of God is wonderful! Even after the people sin and are carried away from their land, the Lord will show them mercy. But the people must first turn to the Lord. Then He will forgive them and bring them back home.

`Do you see the words in Deuteronomy 4:30, ERV, written as “come back”? These words show us that the people will turn back to the Lord when they are sorry for their sins. The Hebrew word for our feeling sorry for sin is “teshuvah.” “Teshuvah” comes from the same Hebrew word as “come back.” What does this information show us that turning away from sin really means? Turning away from sin is more than saying you are sorry for your sins. It means we come back to God after our sin separates us from Him.`