---
title:  Turning Back To God 
date:  23/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We see an important idea all through the book of Deuteronomy: obey the Lord and be blessed. Disobey and your bad choices will cause suffering. We see this same idea in the New Testament. Paul writes, “ ‘Do not be fooled. You cannot fool God. A man will get back whatever he plants! If a man does things to please his sinful [full of sin] old self, his soul will be lost. If a man does things to please the Holy Spirit, he will have life that lasts [continues] forever’ ” (Galatians 6:7, 8, NLV).

After the Fall, sinning became as easy and natural as breathing. So, God warned His people about disobeying Him.  But many people started to do the sins God warned them about. God was willing to accept His people back again if they asked for His forgiveness and turned away from sin.

`Read again Deuteronomy 30:1–10. What does the Lord say He will do for His people, even after they have done many wrong things? But what thing must the people do first?`

God tells His people: if you mess up, awful things will happen to you and your family. That is how sin works. But, even then, you can turn away from your sin. Then the Lord will accept you and bless you.

In Deuteronomy 30, we see this idea about turning back to God in several verses in the chapter: “ ‘Then you and your descendants [future family members] will turn back to the Lord your God’ ” (Deuteronomy 30:2, ERV). In verse 8, we see the same idea: “ ‘You will obey the Lord again, and keep all His Laws which I tell you today’ ” (Deuteronomy 30:8, NLV). Finally, we see the idea in verse 10: “ ‘You must turn to the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul’ ” (Deuteronomy 30:10, NIrV). The word written as “turn” really means “come back.”

So, what do all these verses show us about the Lord? They show us His mercy. The people broke their agreement with God. They sinned deeply in many ways. They had many awful experiences because of their sins. But God was not done with His people. They may choose to come back to Him by turning from their sins.

`How do the verses we studied today show us how important turning away from sin really is to us?`