---
title:  With All Your Heart 
date:  24/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Deuteronomy 30:1–10 shows the mercy of God for His people even after they turn away from Him and all His blessings. God gave Israel blessings He gave no one else: “ ‘The Lord our God is near when we ask him to help us. No other nation [people group] has a god like that!’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:7, ERV). For sure, God did so much for His people. So, they had no real excuse for their sin. But they sinned anyway.

Even then, what is God willing to do?

`Read Deuteronomy 30:1–10. What do the people need to do to come back to God? What should this answer teach us today about what we need to do to come back to God, too?`

God promises what He will do for His people if they come back to Him. He will work a miracle in their hearts. When their hearts are right with God, they will obey Him. But first, the people must want to come back. Then God will bring Israel back to Himself and to their land. God also will bless Israel in the land. How will do that? God will change their hearts even more! Their hearts and the hearts of their children will be filled will love for God. “ ‘Then you will love the Lord your God with all your heart. And you will live!’ ” (Deuteronomy 30:6, ERV).

Paul tells us that God “makes it possible for the Jews to be sorry for their sins. Then they can turn from them and be forgiven” (Acts 5:31, NLV). Yes, God makes turning from sin possible for His people. But in the end, the people must choose to come back to Him. Read the quote below from Ellen G. White to understand more about this idea. In the quote, she talks about the people of God during a different time in their history. But the quote helps us understand better the Bible truth in Deuteronomy 30:1–10 about turning away from sin: “The people are sad because their sins caused them suffering. The people are not sad that their sins broke the law of God. Being sorry for our sins is more than a feeling we have. When we are really sorry for our sins, we will turn away from evil.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 557, adapted.

`You can feel sorry for the suffering sin causes you. Or you can feel sorry because you sinned. How are these two things different? Why is this understanding so important?`