---
title:  Turn Away From Sin And Change Your Lives! 
date:  25/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The whole New Testament shows us the idea of turning away from sin. We see that John the Baptist starts his work for God by asking people to turn away from sin.

Read Matthew 3:1–8. How do these verses show us the idea of turning away from sin? What does John tell the people to do that shows us the message we have studied so far in Deuteronomy? What special meaning does the message of John have for the Jewish religious leaders?

Jesus also started His work for God by inviting people to turn away from sin.

`Read Mark 1:15. What does Jesus say in these verses? Why does He connect turning from sin with the Good News?`

John talks to the religious leaders. Jesus talks to the Jewish people. Jesus and John talk to different groups. But their message is the same: we are sinners. Yes, Jesus came to save sinners. But we must turn from our sins and our old ways of life. Maybe you turned from God long ago. Or maybe you are a loyal Christian who made a mistake and turned from God for a little while. Whoever we are, we must accept that we are sinners. We must feel sorry for our sins and not only the bad things they cause. We must choose to stop sinning. Jesus will give us His strength to say no. We must trust fully in the mercy of Jesus. He will help us to “ ‘obey him completely’ ” (Deuteronomy 15:5, NIrV).

Some Bible thinkers believe that the New Testament shows us the same idea about turning from sin that we see in Deuteronomy. When Peter accuses the Jewish people of hanging Jesus on the cross, many of the people “felt very, very sorry. They asked Peter and the other apostles [leaders of the Christian church], ‘Brothers, what should we do?’ ” (Acts 2:37, ERV). That is, the people were very sorry for their sin against God. They wanted to know what they should do now to make things right with God.

Are we any different than those people today? We have hurt God. So, we need to make things right with Him, too.

`Read Acts 2:38. How does Peter answer the question the people ask him? What important rule does this story show us about turning away from sin?`