---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“As we grow in faith, our understanding about turning from sin will deepen. The Lord says to the ones He forgives: ‘You will remember the bad things you did. You will remember that those things were not good. Then you will hate yourselves because of your sins and the terrible [awful] things you did’ (Ezekiel 36:31 [ERV]). Again, Jesus says: ‘So I will make my new covenant with you. Then you will know that I am the Lord. I will pay for all the sins you have committed [done]. Then you will remember what you have done. You will be ashamed of it. Because of your shame, you will never speak against me again,’ announces the Lord and King” (Ezekiel 16:62, 63 [NIrV]). Then we will not give ourselves any glory. We will know that our strength comes only from Jesus. We shall confess with Paul: ‘I know that no good thing lives in me. I mean, no good thing lives in my body’ (Romans 7:18 [WE]). ‘But I will not be proud of [brag about] anything but of [only] the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Because of it, the things of the world [the evil pleasures of this life] have become dead to me, and I have become dead to the world [the evil pleasures of this life]’ (Galatians 6:14 [WE]).”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 160, 161, adapted.

“ ‘You know that God is kind. He is trying to get you to be sorry for your sins and turn from them’ (Romans 2:4, [NLV]). The love of God and His mercy are the same as a gold chain. God puts this gold chain around every person who is in danger. The Lord announces, ‘I love you people with a love that continues forever. That is why I have continued showing you kindness [gentle and tender care]’ (Jeremiah 31:3 [ERV]).”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 202, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`After we turn from sin, why must we be careful not to think our turning from sin earns us the favor of God? What is the only way we can have His favor?`

`Read about Judas in Matthew 27:3–5. No doubt Judas was sorry about how things turned out with Jesus. (Judas killed himself, right?) But why did Judas not really feel sorry for his sin?`

`We are sinners. Why should this Bible truth help us not to judge other people? The Son of God needed to go to the cross to save us. How does His death show us just how bad sin really is?`