---
title:  The Suffering Messiah
date:  26/02/2024
---

`Read Psalm 22 and Psalm 118:22. How was the Messiah treated by those He had come to save?`

Many psalms express the agonizing feelings of utmost forsakenness of the suffering Messiah (e.g. Psalm 42, Psalm 88, and Psalm 102). Psalm 22 is a direct Messianic prophecy because many details in this psalm cannot be historically connected to King David but perfectly fit the circumstances of Christ’s death. Jesus prayed with the words of Psalm 22:1 on the cross (Matt. 27:46).

The torment of Christ’s separation from His Father, caused by Christ carry­ing the entire world’s sins, can be measured only by the extent of their closeness, namely, their unparalleled oneness (John 1:1, 2; John 10:30). Yet, even the depths of inexplicable suffering could not break the unity between the Father and the Son. In His utter forsakenness, Christ unconditionally entrusts Himself to the Father, despite the utter depths of despair He faced.

“Upon Christ as our substitute and surety was laid the iniquity of us all. He was counted a transgressor, that He might redeem us from the condemnation of the law. The guilt of every descendant of Adam was pressing upon His heart. The wrath of God against sin, the terrible mani­festation of His displeasure because of iniquity, filled the soul of His Son with consternation.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, p. 753.

The threatening animal imagery of strong bulls, roaring lions, and dogs highlights the people’s cruelty and animosity that Christ, who is compared to a harmless and helpless worm, met in His final hours. With amazing accuracy, Psalm 22 conveys the venomous remarks of the crowd that mocked Jesus with His own words to the Father (Ps. 22:1, 8; Matt. 27:43) and the soldiers dividing Jesus’ garments (Ps. 22:18, Matt. 27:35). Little did the people understand then that the “worm” they sought to crush would become the chief “cornerstone” of the Temple and secure its foundation (Ps. 118:22).

However, the rejected Messiah became the Source of salvation for God’s people after His resurrection from the dead (Matt. 21:42, Acts 4:10-12). Christ suffered the rejection of humanity, but God glorified His Son by making Him the living “chief cornerstone” of God’s spiritual Temple (Eph. 2:20-22, 1 Pet. 2:4-8). For those who reject this Stone, namely, God’s means of salvation, it will become the agent of judgment (Isa. 8:14, Matt. 21:44).

`Jesus on the cross paid in Himself the penalty for every sin you have ever committed. How should the fact that He suffered on your behalf impact how you live now, that is, why you should find sin so abhorrent?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Through the psalmist Christ had foretold the treatment that He should receive from men: “I am . . . a reproach of men, and despised of the people. All they that see Me laugh Me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, He trusted on the Lord that He would deliver Him: let Him deliver Him, seeing He delighted in Him.” “I may tell all My bones: they look and stare upon Me. They part My garments among them, and cast lots upon My vesture.” “I am become a stranger unto My brethren, and an alien unto My mother’s children. For the zeal of Thine house hath eaten Me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached Thee are fallen upon Me.” “Reproach hath broken My heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for comforters, but I found none.” Psalm 22:6-8, 17, 18; 69:8, 9, 20.—_The Acts of the Apostles_, p. 225.

Men whom God had created, and who were dependent upon Him for every moment of their lives, who claimed to be the children of Abraham, worked out the wrath of Satan upon the innocent Son of the infinite God. While Christ was bearing the heavy guilt incurred by transgression of the law, while in the very act of bearing our sins, of carrying our sorrows, He was mocked by the chief priests and rulers. It was there that mercy and truth met together, righteousness and peace embraced each other. Here is a theme which all need to understand. Here are lengths and breadths, depths and heights, that pass any computation.\
The character of Christ is an infinitely perfect character. The Word declares Him. He is lifted up and proclaimed as the One who gave His life for the life of the world. Christ gave His own life, that all the disloyal and disobedient might realize the truth of the promise given in the first chapter of John: “As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name” (John 1:12). Tell it over and over again. We may become the sons of God, members of the royal family, children of the heavenly King. All who accept Jesus Christ and hold the beginning of their confidence firm unto the end will be heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ to “an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away.”—_That I May Know Him_, p. 70.

When the sinner has a view of the matchless charms of Jesus, sin no longer looks attractive to him; for he beholds the Chiefest among ten thousand, the One altogether lovely. He realizes by a personal experience the power of the gospel, whose vastness of design is equaled only by its preciousness of purpose.—_Reflecting Christ_, p. 76.