---
title:  Forever Faithful to His Covenant
date:  27/02/2024
---

`Read Psalm 89:27-32, 38-46 and Psalm 132:10-12. What is the Davidic covenant about? What seems to have endangered it?`

The Davidic covenant contains God’s promise of everlasting support of David’s line and prosperity of God’s people (1 Sam. 7:5-16; Ps. 89:1-4, 19-37; Ps. 132:12-18). The permanence of the covenant was established on God’s solemn oath and the king’s faithfulness to God. However, even the devoted kings, such as King David, were not always faithful to the Lord. Psalm 89 laments over the harsh reality that seems to indicate that the glorious promises of the Davidic covenant have been lost. Is Israel hopelessly deserted by God? The answer, of course, is—no!

God’s wrath is, yes, an expression of divine judgment (Ps. 38:1, Ps. 74:1). Yet, it does not last forever because God’s everlasting love forgives people’s sins when people repent. However, while it lasts, God’s discontent with His erring people is serious. The people feel the bitter consequences of their disobedience and realize the gravity of their sins (Ps. 89:38-46). Yet, they ask, “How long?” appealing to the passing character of God’s wrath (Ps. 89:46). Renewed hope springs from new assurance in God’s faithfulness to “remember” His grace (Ps. 89:47, 50).

In short, although the human component of the covenant failed, the people could rest in the promise of God’s unchanging purposes through the Messiah, who embodies all righteousness and salvation of Israel and of the whole world. That is, in the end, God will prevail, and His eternal kingdom will be established forever—but only because of Jesus and not because of God’s people.

Jesus Christ is the Son of David and the Messiah (Matt. 1:1, Heb. 1:8). He is called “the firstborn over all creation” (Col. 1:15, NKJV), alluding to Psalm 89:27, which calls David, who was a  type of Christ, God’s firstborn. “Also I will make him My firstborn, / The highest of the kings of the earth” (NKJV).

Clearly the title “firstborn” does not express David’s biological status, because David was the eighth child of his parents (1 Sam. 16:10, 11). It’s the same with Jesus. This title signifies His special honor and authority (Col. 1:16, 20-22). God made Jesus the supreme King over the whole world when He raised Jesus from the dead (Acts 2:30, 31).

`Read Colossians 1:16, 20-22. What do these verses teach us about who Jesus was and what He has done for us? What promise can you take away from this for yourself?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Glorious are the promises made to David and his house, promises that look forward to the eternal ages, and find their complete fulfillment in Christ. The Lord declared:\
“I have sworn unto David My servant . . . with whom My hand shall be established: Mine arm also shall strengthen him. . . . My faithfulness and My mercy shall be with him: and in My name shall his horn be exalted. I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers. He shall cry unto Me, Thou art my Father, my God, and the Rock of my salvation. Also I will make him My first-born, higher than the kings of the earth. My mercy will I keep for him forevermore, and My covenant shall stand fast with him.” Psalm 89:3-28.—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, pp. 754, 755.

Many a wrongdoer has excused his own sin by pointing to David’s fall, but how few there are who manifest David’s penitence and humility. How few would bear reproof and retribution with the patience and fortitude that he manifested. . . .\
But he saw in his own sin the cause of his trouble. The words of the prophet Micah breathe the spirit that inspired David’s heart. “When I sit in darkness, the Lord shall be a light unto me. I will bear the indignation of the Lord, because I have sinned against Him, until He plead my cause, and execute judgment for me.” Micah 7:8, 9. And the Lord did not forsake David. This chapter in his expe­rience, when, under cruelest wrong and insult, he shows himself to be humble, unselfish, generous, and submissive, is one of the noblest in his whole experience. Never was the ruler of Israel more truly great in the sight of heaven than at this hour of his deepest outward ­humiliation.—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, pp. 737, 738.

The apostle [Paul] exalted Christ before his brethren as the One by whom God had created all things and by whom He had wrought out their redemption. He declared that the hand that sustains the worlds in space, and holds in their orderly arrangements and tireless activity all things throughout the universe of God, is the hand that was nailed to the cross for them. “By Him were all things created,” Paul wrote, “that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by Him, and for Him: and He is before all things, and by Him all things consist.” . . .\
The Son of God stooped to uplift the fallen. For this He left the sinless worlds on high, the ninety and nine that loved Him, and came to this earth to be “wounded for our transgressions” and “bruised for our iniquities.” Isaiah 53:5. . . . Tender, compassionate, sympathetic, ever considerate of others, He represented the character of God. “The Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, . . . full of grace and truth.” John 1:14.—_The Acts of the Apostles_, pp. 471, 472.