---
title:  Further Thought
date:  07/06/2019
---

“Too often the parents are not united in their family government. The father, who is with his children but little, and is ignorant of their peculiarities of disposition and temperament, is harsh and severe. He does not control his temper, but corrects in passion. The child knows this, and instead of being subdued, the punishment fills him with anger. The mother allows misdemeanors to pass at one time for which she will severely punish at another. The children never know just what to expect, and are tempted to see how far they can transgress with impunity. Thus are sown seeds of evil that spring up and bear fruit.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, pp. 314, 315.

“Home is to be the center of the purest and most elevated affection. Peace, harmony, affection, and happiness should be perseveringly cherished every day, until these precious things abide in the hearts of those who compose the family. The plant of love must be carefully nourished, else it will die. Every good principle must be cherished if we would have it thrive in the soul. That which Satan plants in the heart—envy, jealousy, evil surmising, evil speaking, impatience, prejudice, selfishness, covetousness, and vanity—must be uprooted. If these evil things are allowed to remain in the soul, they will bear fruit by which many shall be defiled. Oh, how many cultivate the poisonous plants that kill out the precious fruits of love and defile the soul!”—Pages 195, 196.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Read the following quote from a book about marriage. “ ‘For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin’ (Heb. 4:15). Just as Christ put Himself in our situation, to best relate to us, we should do the same with our marriage partner. Try to view any given situation or crisis not just from your own perspective but from your spouse’s. See how he or she views the situation, how it has an impact on him or her, and why he or she would feel about it the way he or she does. This principle can go a long way in alleviating tough situations.”—Clifford Goldstein, The Mules That Angels Ride (Hagerstown, Md.: Review and Herald®Publishing Association, 2005), p. 25. In what ways can we apply this principle to all areas of potential conflict with others?`

`In class, answer the question, “Is anger always a sin?” Defend your position.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Adventist Home_, “Shall the Words Cause Sunshine or Shadow?” p. 437;

_Selected Messages_, bk. 1, “Christ, Our Divine Sin Bearer,” p. 320.