---
title:  Further Thought
date:  15/01/2021
---

“‘His name shall be called Immanuel, . . . God with us.’ ‘The light of the knowledge of the glory of God’ is seen ‘in the face of Jesus Christ.’ From the days of eternity the Lord Jesus Christ was one with the Father; He was ‘the image of God,’ the image of His greatness and majesty, ‘the outshining of His glory.’ It was to manifest this glory that He came to our world. To this sin-darkened earth He came to reveal the light of God's love,—to be ‘God with us.’ Therefore it was prophesied of Him, ‘His name shall be called Immanuel.’”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 19.

“Well would it have been for the kingdom of Judah had Ahaz received this message as from heaven. But choosing to lean on the arm of flesh, he sought help from the heathen. In desperation he sent word to Tiglath-pileser, king of Assyria: ‘I am thy servant and thy son: come up, and save me out of the hand of the king of Syria, and out of the hand of the king of Israel, which rise up against me.’ 2 Kings 16:7. The request was accompanied by a rich present from the king's treasure and from the temple storehouse.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, p. 329.

**Discussion Questions**:

`When you are in the process of making a decision, is it appropriate to ask God for a sign? What dangers are possibly inherent in doing something like that?`

`It is good to have human assistance, but how do you recognize its limits?`

`Russian author Leo Tolstoy wrote to a friend that “once a man has realized that death is the end of everything, then there is nothing worse than life either.” How does our knowledge that “God is with us” answer such a statement?`

**Summary**

God brought faithless King Ahaz to circumstances in which he had to make a difficult decision: To believe or not to believe, this is the question. Even though the Lord offered him any sign that his imagination could devise, he refused to allow God to demonstrate a reason why he should believe. Instead, he chose as his “friend” the king of Assyria.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Faith I Live By,_ “God Will Take Care of His Church,” p. 282;

_Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers_, “An Exalted Privilege,” p. 480.