---
title:  Further Thought
date:  28/02/2020
---

Below is a chart summarizing what we have looked at so far regarding the sequence of kingdoms depicted in Daniel 2, 7, and 8. What does this tell us about the cleansing of the sanctuary?

| Daniel 2 | Daniel 7 | Daniel 8 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Babylon | Babylon | \----- |
| Media-Persia | Media-Persia | Media-Persia |
| Greece | Greece | Greece |
| Pagan Rome | Pagan Rome | Pagan Rome |
| Papal Rome | Papal Rome | Papal Rome |
| \----- | Judgment in heaven | Cleansing of Sanctuary |
| Second Coming | Second Coming | Second Coming |
| \[Stone cut out without hand\] | \[Saints get the kingdom\] | \[Destroyed without hand\] |

As we can see here, there are parallels between the chapters. Not only are the nations depicted in parallel to each other, the judgment scene in Daniel 7 — which arises after the 1,260 years (A.D.538-1798) of papal Rome, directly parallels the cleansing of the sanctuary, which in Daniel 8 arises after Rome as well. In short, this heavenly judgment in Daniel 7 — the judgment that leads to the end of the world — is the same thing as the cleansing of the sanctuary in Daniel 8. We are given here two different depictions of the same thing, and both occur after the 1,260-year period of persecution perpetrated by the little horn power.

**Discussion questions**

`How does the chart above show us that the cleansing of the sanctuary, the same thing as the judgment in Daniel 7, must occur sometime after the 1,260-year prophecy of the little horn, and yet before the establishing of God’s final kingdom?`

`The prophecy of Daniel 8 depicts history as something violent and full of evil. The two animals, symbolizing two world empires, fight each other (Dan. 8:5-7). The little horn power that arises after them is a violent and persecuting power (Dan. 8:23-25). Thus, Scripture here makes no attempt to downplay the reality of suffering in this world. How should this help us learn to trust in God and His goodness despite the reality of evil we see all around us?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Faith I Live By_, “Heavenly Things Purified,” p. 206;

_Selected Messages_, “The Righteousness of Christ in the Law,” book 1, pp. 237, 238.