---
title: 'People That Nobody Feels Are Important'
date: 17/08/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Matthew 5:2–16; Matthew 5:38–48; Luke 10:25–27; Luke 16:19–31; Matthew 25:31–46. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘The King will reply, “What I’m [I am] about to tell you is true. Anything you did for one of the least [not very] important of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me” ’ ” (Matthew 25:40, NIrV).

JESUS showed that He cared about other people His whole life. He cared very much about people who were hurt. He cared about people who did not know about God. So, we should expect that Jesus has a lot to say about why we should take care of other people.

Jesus’ teaching shows us how we should live as followers of God. Jesus wants us to be fair and kind to people. Jesus wants us to show people mercy. That is what Jesus did when He was on this earth. We must follow Jesus’ example. Then we will help others just as Jesus did.

Jesus also talked about the kingdom of heaven. Jesus says that the kingdom of heaven is real. It is something we can be part of right now. The kingdom of heaven is a way of life. The kingdom of heaven has different rules than we see in the kingdoms on this earth. Jesus’ teachings show us God’s plan for the kingdom of heaven. God’s plan shows us that our serving God is important. His plan also shows us that we must be kind to other people and help them. We must take care of other people. It is one way we can serve God right now. 

*Jesus wants us to show people mercy.*