---
title: 'The Sermon On The Mount'
date: 18/08/2019
---

Jesus’ longest sermon is the Sermon on the Mount. This sermon is three chapters long. In this sermon, Jesus talks about God’s kingdom. He starts His sermon by talking about some very special teachings of God’s kingdom. These special teachings are named the Beatitudes.

`Read about Jesus’ nine special teachings in Matthew 5:2–16. What is the same about all these nine teachings?`

These nine teachings are deep spiritual truths. They also will change the way we live. Jesus says that we must understand that we are poor. That is why we need the riches God gives us. Jesus also talks about obeying God and being fair to other people. He also tells us we should not be filled with pride. We should show mercy to people. We should try to live in peace. We should have clean hearts and minds. When we do these things, we will make a difference in the lives of other people. Jesus also told His followers to be the same as salt and light (Matthew 5:13–16). Then we will be a blessing to people too. 

Salt and light make a difference when we add them to things. Salt makes food taste good. It also helps food stay fresh longer. Salt is a word picture for the good that we should do and be for the people around us. In the same way, light is a word picture. Light shines in the darkness. It shows us the dangers hidden in the dark. Light makes a house or city safe. It helps us find our way home at night. Jesus told us to be the same as a light on a dark night. He said, “ ‘You should be a light for other people. Live so that they will see the good things you do and praise your Father in heaven’ ” (Matthew 5:16, ERV).

Both salt and light show us what we must do as Jesus’ followers. We must help to make the lives of the people around us better. We are salt and light when we are sorry for sin. We are salt and light when we have clean hearts that are not filled with pride. We also are salt and light when we show mercy, make peace, and suffer for Jesus. 

`In what ways is your church the same as salt and light in your community? How is your community a better place because your church is serving there?`

*Salt is a word picture for the good that we should do and be for the people around us.*