---
title:  FIGHTING EVIL WITH GOOD
date:   19/08/2019
---

“We must remember something important when we study Jesus’ teachings. It is important to know about the people He talked to and how they lived. Large crowds came to hear Jesus preach (read Matthew 4:25; Matthew 5:1). Some of the people were rulers and religious leaders. But many people who came to see Jesus were not famous, rich, or powerful. Their lives were hard. They did not have many choices for a better life. They paid heavy taxes. Their religious leaders told them they had to do many difficult things to be saved.

Jesus taught people a better way of life. He wanted them to live with courage and hope, even when bad things happened. We can read about some of Jesus’ teachings in Matthew 5:38–48. Jesus says you should “ ‘Turn your other cheek’ ” (Matthew 5:39, NIrV). He also tells us, “ ‘If anyone wants to sue you in court and take your shirt, let them have your coat too’ ” (Matthew 5:40, ERV). He also says, “ ‘If a soldier forces you to walk with him one mile, go with him two’ ” (Matthew 5:41, ERV). We know these sayings very well. In these sayings, Jesus teaches us some very important lessons.

Jesus preached to people who were hurt badly by their masters. Many of these people owed a lot of money. They lost their land and homes to the people who gave them loans. Roman soldiers often forced these poor people to work for them. Jesus taught the people to be kind to the ones who hurt them. We cannot control what powerful people do to us. But we can control how we act when they hurt us. Jesus taught the people that they always had the freedom to choose what to say and do. When they chose to be kind, then their kind acts helped other people to understand God’s love.

`Read about the important rules in Matthew 5:38–48 with Romans 12:20, 21. In what ways can we make these important rules part of our lives?`

Jesus talked about a special rule named the Golden Rule. He said the Golden Rule showed the whole meaning of the Law of Moses and the teachings of the prophets. Prophets are God’s special messengers. The Golden Rule is: “ ‘Do for other people the same things you want them to do for you’ ” (Matthew 7:12, ICB). 

`In what ways, right now, can you do what Jesus commands us to do in the Golden Rule?`

*“ ‘If a soldier forces you to walk with him one mile, go with him two’ ” (Matthew 5:41, ERV).*