---
title: 'The Good Samaritan'
date: 20/08/2019
---

`Read Luke 10:25–27. The teacher of the law asks Jesus a question: What shall I do to get everlasting life? Jesus answers, “ ‘What is written in the law? What do you understand from it?’ ” (Luke 10:26, ERV). The teacher says that the law commands us to love God and love other humans. How are these two commands connected?`

People often asked Jesus questions. But He did not always give them the answer they expected. Luke 10:25–27 shows us that the religious leaders in Jesus’ day spent a lot of time arguing about Leviticus 19:18. Leviticus 19:18, ERV, says, “ ‘Love your neighbor as yourself.’ ” The religious leaders argued about who your neighbor is. They also talked about how much love they must show people.

Jesus wanted His followers to love their neighbors. He also wanted His people to do good to everyone. So, Jesus wanted His followers to fully understand what the word “neighbor” meant. “ ‘But here is what I tell you. Love your enemies. Pray for those [people] who hurt you. Then you will be children of your Father who is in heaven. . . . He sends rain on those [people] who do right and those who don’t [do not]’ ” (Matthew 5:44, 45, NIrV). 

Why did the teacher of the law ask Jesus a question? The teacher wanted to give Jesus a test. The teacher wanted to see how much Jesus knew about the law. Jesus gave the teacher a good answer. So, the teacher asked Jesus another question: “ ‘Who is my neighbor?’ ” (Luke 10:29, ERV). Jesus answered the question by telling a story. Jesus’ story about the good Samaritan shows the answer to the question the teacher asked. Jesus says that our neighbor is anyone who needs our help (read Luke 10:36, 37). 

`Read Jesus’ story about the good Samaritan in Luke 10:30–37. Jesus talks about three men who see someone hurt on the side of the road. What does each man do when he sees the man who needs their help? What lesson was Jesus trying to teach about what we should do when we see someone in need?`

“In the story about the good Samaritan, Jesus shows us true religion. . . . It is doing acts of love. It is doing as much good as we can do for other people.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 497, adapted.

*Jesus says that our neighbor is anyone who needs our help.*