---
title: 'The Rich Man And Lazarus'
date: 21/08/2019
---

Jesus tells the picture story about the rich man and Lazarus (read Luke 16:19–31). Jesus compares the lives of these two men. He shows us their lives are very different. One man is rich. The other man, Lazarus, is poor. In Jesus’ day, poor people begged for money outside the homes of rich people. The people in Jesus’ day expected the rich to help the poor. But in this story, the rich man “is selfish. He does not care about the needs of Lazarus.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 261, adapted. Later, both men die. Then God is their Judge. What does God decide to do? He changes everything that was not fair on this earth between them. God decides that the rich man shall lose everything. But Lazarus gets everlasting life.

`Compare the story in Luke 16:19–31 with the story in Luke 12:13–21. What is the same and what is different in the two stories? What do both stories teach us?`

There is no hint in both stories that the men became rich by doing anything wrong. Maybe both men worked hard and were good managers. And God blessed them both. But something goes wrong. They have the wrong thoughts and feelings about life, God, money, and other people. They pay the price by losing their everlasting life. 

The picture story about the rich man and Lazarus teaches us an important lesson. The choices we make in this life help God decide what will happen to us in the next life. How do we show what is important to us in this life? By our choices. Our choices show what we feel is important. 

Jesus taught that riches can pull us away from His kingdom. Our love for money can cause us to be selfish. Worse, it can make us feel that we do not need God’s help. Jesus asks us to put His kingdom first. He asks us to share the blessings He gives us with other people around us. He asks us to help people who are in need.

`Rich or poor, what can you do to not let love for money control your life?`

*Jesus taught us that riches can pull us away from His kingdom.*