---
title: 'People That Nobody Feels Are Important'
date: 22/08/2019
---

In Matthew 24 and 25, Jesus preaches a sermon. This sermon is Jesus’ answer to another question. This time, Jesus’ followers ask Him the question. Jesus gives them an answer that is different from the one they expected. Here is what happened. Jesus’ followers come to Him. They ask Him when the temple in Jerusalem will be destroyed and when Jesus will come back (see Matthew 24:1–3). Jesus’ answer is the sermon in Matthew 24 and the picture stories in Matthew 25. After His sermon, Jesus talks about feeding the hungry and thirsty. He also says we should welcome strangers as guests. What else does Jesus say we should do? He says we should give clothes to the naked. We should take care of the sick. We should visit people in prison. Then Jesus tells His followers, “ ‘Anything you did for one of the least [not very] important of these brothers and sisters of mine, you did for me’ ” (Matthew 25:40, NIrV; read also Matthew 25:45).

Here, Jesus’ words help us see His last work as our Judge. In Matthew 24, Jesus answers His followers’ questions about the end times. He tells them about the signs that will happen in the last days. He warns them that the temple in Jerusalem will be destroyed. Jesus tells them they need to be careful. They must not let anyone trick them about what will happen before He comes back. In the first part of Matthew 25, Jesus tells His followers the picture story about the wise and foolish girls. Jesus uses this story to show His followers that they must be ready for Him to come back. Also, Jesus may not come back when they expect. So, they also need to be ready for a delay. The picture story about the three managers shows us how we should live while we wait for Jesus to come back. The picture story about the sheep and goats shows us the work we should be doing as God’s people.

`Read Matthew 25:31–46. What is Jesus telling us in these verses? What do His words teach us about what it means to be saved by faith?`

Jesus says that the things we do for other people, we do for Him. This truth should change all our friendships and family connections. It should change all our thoughts and feelings too. 

*Jesus says we should welcome strangers as guests.*