---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   23/08/2019
---

ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “The Good Samaritan,” pages 497–505, and “ ‘The Least of These My Brethren,’ ” pages 637–641, in The Desire of Ages; “ ‘A Great Gulf Fixed,’ ” pages 260–271, “ ‘Who Is My Neighbor?’ ” pages 376–389, in Christ’s Object Lessons.

“Jesus breaks the wall that separates humans from God. This wall is built from selfishness. It is made of the false pride that we feel in belonging to our country. Jesus teaches us a love for all the human family. He lifts men up from selfishness. He ends all separations between rich and poor people and people from different countries. In Jesus’ eyes, neighbors and strangers are the same. So are friends and enemies. Jesus teaches us to look on every person in need as our neighbor.”—Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, page 42, adapted. 

“The Golden Rule is the true rule of the Christian religion. Anything that causes us to feel that we do not need to follow it is a lie. Jesus gave Himself for humans. So, each person is worth a lot. False religion causes people to say that humans are not worth much. False religion causes us to not care about human needs or sufferings. When we do not care about the needs of the poor, the suffering, and sinners, we show that we are not Jesus’ followers. Men say that they are Christians. But they do not act the way Jesus acted. That is why the Christian religion has so little power on this earth.”—Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, pages 136, 137, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Which is your favorite verse or verses we studied this week? Why?`

`2. Ellen G. White writes, “False religion causes us to not care about human needs or sufferings.”—Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, page 137, adapted. Yes, the truth is important. But why also is it important to remember that we must live the truth?`

`3. Read again the verses in Thursday’s study. What does our having the truth really mean?`

*“Jesus breaks the wall that separates humans from God.”*