---
title:  inTro
date:   12/07/2026
---

**Read This Week’s Passage:** John 14

### Getting Things in Order

A few weeks ago, my father passed away unexpectedly. It still feels strange to write those words. He was the one who raised me, the one who led me to Christ, and eventually the one who introduced me to the Adventist message—he played a significant role in my life. However, because his passing was so sudden and he never spoke about death, the weight and magnitude of his loss were much more difficult to bear. There was no will, no clear instructions on his wishes, and no communication of any symptoms that might have indicated this was coming. To this day, we don’t believe even he knew how soon it would happen. It was a lot to process in a short amount of time.

Unfortunately, in today’s culture, all the responsibilities involved in settling a person’s affairs after they pass can make it difficult to grieve properly. Planning a funeral, sorting through a loved one’s belongings, moving everything out if it was a rental, or deciding whether to sell or keep their home if they owned it—it’s overwhelming. The multitude of logistical tasks makes it difficult to truly reflect and grieve. Thankfully, in my situation, God worked multiple miracles to help me get through it. Everything was sorted out, all of Dad’s affairs were handled, and we moved everything out of his rental home within a week. Most importantly, we were able to have a meaningful memorial as a family to celebrate what we were grateful for in Dad’s life.

Ideally, when someone knows their time is near, it’s best to get everything in order—making sure the will is accurate and up to date, organizing finances, gathering loved ones, saying what needs to be said, making amends, and ensuring those left behind will be cared for. It’s also important to encourage them, acknowledging that while they will be missed, help and comfort will be there after they are gone. And, hopefully, reminding them that this is not “goodbye” but “see you later.”

What’s encouraging about Jesus’ ministry in His closing scenes, and even in how He taught, is that He understands the hardship we endure in moments of loss. Before His death, He gave His disciples the assurances and principles they needed to continue their mission in His absence. Even the timing of His death afforded a day for them to process without needing to tend to His body over the Sabbath hours. The Sabbath rest gave them time to think through all that He said while He was still with them. I definitely appreciate better this aspect of Jesus’ ministry and death after having recently gone through this experience myself.

In John 13–17, Jesus begins this work of preparation in earnest. In chapters 13 and 14, He is in the upper room with His disciples. He washes the disciples’ feet to prepare their hearts for repentance and renewal. He addresses difficult matters—Judas’ betrayal, and Peter’s denial. Once Judas left, Jesus knew His time was short. He had much to teach the disciples—things they wouldn’t fully understand but that would be very important later (John 14:26).

Jesus’ teachings in John 14 cover a range of topics. First, He sought to affirm Peter after delivering the hard news at the end of chapter 13 while also reassuring the other disciples that they would see each other again—that this separation was not final. He then promised that they would not be alone in this journey, even though He was leaving. The Holy Spirit would be present to guide and comfort them. He assured them of the Father’s love, promised to give them His peace, and reminded them that the Father desires to be with them.

Chapter 14 closes Jesus’ teachings in the upper room, but there was plenty more to share with the disciples on their journey to Gethsemane. We’ll address those teachings in the following weeks.

### inScribe

Make an outline or mind map of John 14. Write out verses 1–11 from the translation of your choice or rewrite it in your own words. How was Jesus trying to prepare His disciples for His departure?

Review your scribed passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [Arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`What special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`