---
title:  inGest
date:   13/07/2026
---

### Promises for the Journey Ahead

In John 13, Jesus shares the bad news that one disciple is about to betray Him. In John 14, Jesus presents the sad news that He is about to leave them. The disciples had built years of memories with Jesus and were deeply bonded with Him. They traveled together, ate together, worked together—they did life together. Undoubtedly, they felt that their careers with Jesus were just beginning. They had high hopes for the future. It’s difficult to overstate how much they struggled to accept that Jesus was leaving them. They were crushed at the thought of being separated from Him. Nevertheless, Jesus described His departure as though it would be for their benefit. He promised to prepare a place in heaven for them (and for us) and to come again and receive us to Himself to dwell with us forever.

The disciples naturally wanted to know more about where Jesus was going. He explained He was going to His Father, which made the disciples more inquisitive about the Father. Jesus declared, “If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also” (John 14:7), and “He who has seen Me has seen the Father” (John 14:9). This is such a profound truth. Many people wrestle with unhealthy views of God the Father. Some even feel as though Jesus is the kind one while the Father is stern and exacting—as if Jesus’ role is to appease the Father on our behalf. Jesus emphasized that this is not the case. From this passage, we know that God the Father is just like Jesus. Everything we see Jesus do is exactly what we would see the Father do if He were on earth today. The words of comfort He shared came from the Father. The powerful works that inspired them were done by the Father.

Twice, Jesus reassured the disciples that the Father was eager to hear and answer their prayers (John 14:13, 14). He tried to correct misconceptions of a distant, uncaring God. Jesus wanted His disciples to know that God was near and ready to help. Through Jesus, we gain full and complete access to God.

Jesus instilled in the disciples’ hearts that He longs to be with them and that both He and the Father desire to dwell with them (John 14:23). This truth would become essential because they were about to forsake Him, leaving Him to suffer alone. In moments of guilt, we often believe that Jesus no longer wants to be with us. However, Jesus preempted their failure with multiple promises of His desire to remain with them—and He showed them that the Father feels the same way.

**Questions to consider:**

`Which promise in John 14 encourages you the most?`

`What misconceptions of the Father have you had, and how do Jesus’ words help?`