---
title:  inTerpret
date:   14/07/2026
---

### Help Is on the Way

In the heart of John 14, Jesus makes a statement that can be understood in two different ways: “If you love Me, keep My commandments” (John 14:15). This is how it reads in the New King James Version, but if you check the marginal notes in many Bibles, you’ll see a slight variation: “If you love Me, you will keep My commandments.” The first reading comes across as an imperative, which can feel a bit off-putting. Many of us have probably heard someone say, “Well, you would do it if you loved me,” which can feel pressuring or even manipulative. However, Jesus’ statement isn’t in the imperative in the original language. The marginal reference provides a more accurate translation: “If you love Me, you will keep My commandments.”

This reading is affirmed in the very next verse, where Jesus explains how we will keep His commandments: “And I will pray the Father, and He will give you another Helper, that He may abide with you forever—the Spirit of truth” (John 14:16, 17). Because we love Jesus, He prays that the Father will send us another Helper—the Holy Spirit, the Third Person of the Godhead. The Holy Spirit empowers us to love God and obey Him.

These verses describe all three Persons of the Godhead as active participants in our salvation. Jesus, the Father, and the Holy Spirit work together to lift us out of sin and empower us to live a new life. They don’t set a high standard and leave us to figure it out on our own; They empower us to live it out.

The disciples must have been very concerned about losing Jesus, who was their constant Teacher. In His absence, the Holy Spirit would continue teaching them and would bring to their remembrance the things Christ taught them (John 14:25, 26). This is such an encouraging promise for us today! Reading and studying Scripture is a wonderful blessing, but it can sometimes feel overwhelming to try to understand and retain everything. Jesus reassured us that the Spirit will help us comprehend His teachings and bring them to mind when we need them most.

In all these promises, Jesus gave the disciples exactly what they would need to endure what they were about to experience.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what are your main takeaways? What questions emerge? What parts are difficult?`

`What does the promise of the Holy Spirit mean to you personally? How can you receive more of the Holy Spirit in your life?`

`Memorize your favorite passage from John 14. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`