---
title:  inVite
date:   16/07/2026
---

### Preparing a Place

In this final evening before His death, Jesus gave His disciples a promise that would keep them strong and focused through the challenging times ahead. It wasn’t just a promise; it was _the_ promise—the ultimate promise that has held God’s people through the centuries. Jesus made a pledge that He will someday take us home to dwell with Him forever. He said, “I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to Myself; that where I am, there you may be also” (John 14:2, 3). The promise that Jesus will return transforms the way we relate to our current circumstances because it gives us hope. This promise expressed the longing of Christ’s heart. It was because of His earnest desire to bring us home with Him that He endured suffering and death. With great anticipation and joy, Jesus looks forward to the day He can take us to our heavenly home to be with Him forever.

In Scripture, the overarching motif of the Second Coming is often expressed in terms of a marriage. Jesus referred to Himself as the Bridegroom (Matt. 9:15) and often returned to these themes to emphasize the loving relationship between Himself and His people. Jesus told multiple wedding parables to illustrate the events of the Second Coming. Examples include the story of the royal wedding feast (Matt. 22:2) and the parable of the ten virgins (Matt. 25:1). Revelation also refers to the time when Christ will be united with His people as “the marriage of the Lamb” (Rev. 19:7–9).

Viewing the Second Coming as a wedding—a joyful reunion of two parties in love—is a significant paradigm shift from how many people have traditionally understood it. The language of judgment and imminence has often led people to fear Christ’s return, but God wants His people to look forward to the ultimate reunion. It’s meant to be good news. God’s people approach the Second Coming with unrestrained joy (Isa. 25:8, 9) while the wicked face it with overwhelming dread and fear (Rev. 6:15–17). Now is the time God invites us to carefully prepare for His return and to foster the right mindset when we think and speak of the Second Coming.

Like an engaged couple who are counting down the days until their wedding, God’s people look forward to the Second Coming with great delight. Those who cherish this promise won’t be silent about it. They love to talk about it, sing about it, and dream about it.

**Questions to consider:**

`How does seeing the Second Coming as a wedding shape your view of God’s character?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`