---
title:  inQuire
date:   18/07/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Promise of His return:**

1. What hope did Jesus give His disciples, who were confused about His departure? John 14:1–6
2. Why does the Bible often speak of the Second Coming in terms of a wedding? See Matt. 22:2; 25:1; Rev. 19:7–9
3. How can a fear-based approach to the teaching of the Second Coming affect how the message is received?

`Personal reflection: Have you ever felt that the “why” of the Second Coming has been emphasized less than the “how”? If so, how can we fix that?`

**Divine help given:**

1. Have you ever struggled with a belief that the Father is harsh and distant? How did Jesus correct these misconceptions? John 14:7–14
2. How would the disciples continue to experience God’s presence after Christ’s departure? John 14:15–24
3. How do you see the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit working together for our salvation in John 14?

**Peace and faith:**

1. Despite troublesome times ahead, Christ promised His peace to His disciples in John 14:27. What does His peace look like in our lives?
2. Jesus told the disciples of many future things and in John 14:29 said that when these things came to pass, they would serve as reasons to believe in Him. What does this tell us about the importance of prophecy in building our faith?

`Personal reflection: What worries or fears trouble you the most? How does the peace Jesus offers differ from what you might naturally seek?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- The Second Coming is not meant to be a fearful event but a joyful reunion between Christ and His people.
- Jesus showed us that the Father is just as loving and compassionate as He is.
- Through the work of the Holy Spirit, the disciples would continue in God’s presence after Jesus departed.