---
title:  The Rich Fool
date:   05/03/2023
---

`Read Jesus’ picture story in Luke 12:16–21. What’s God’s message for us in these verses? What strong words does Jesus use? What do Jesus’ words show us about our own feelings for the things we own?`

The story in Luke 12:16–21 can help us understand what we should not do when we retire. We should not spend all our money that we saved for retirement.Yes, we can work hard and earn a lot of money before we retire. But God knows how we feel about our money. God watches how we spend our money, too. Luke 12:19 shows us our real problem with money. The man says, “ ‘I have many good things stored [saved]. I have saved enough for many years. Rest, eat, drink, and enjoy life’ ” (Luke 12:19, ERV).

“This man behaved no better than an animal. He acted as if there were no God, no heaven, and no future life. Only animals behave this way. This man behaved as if he owed nothing to God or to man.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 257, 258, adapted.

As we get ready to retire, we must not think only of ourselves. We also must remember to take care of the needs of other people, too. If we don’t help other people, we behave the same as the rich man in the Bible story. The rich man isn’t lazy. He is not a liar. The rich man spends the money on himself. God gave the rich man that money to help other people, but that didn’t happen. We don’t know when we will die. So, we always should follow God’s plan for our lives. We must not be selfish.

The Bible teaches us that we should work for as long as we can. Many people believe that Daniel and John wrote their books of the Bible when they were in their 80s or 90s. In those days, most people lived 50 years or more. Ellen G. White herself wrote some of her best-known books after she was 70. One of those books is The Desire of Ages. So, our getting older doesn’t mean that we will stop doing things. We should continue helping other people and doing good work when we retire.

Jesus told His followers to watch and work as they waited for Him to come back (Matthew 24:44–46). We should follow this advice in our retirement years, too.

`What “trap” did the rich man in the picture story fall into? How can you avoid this trap, even when you are old? Ask yourself, “What am I living for?”`