---
title:  We Can’t Take Anything With Us When We Die
date:   06/03/2023
---

`Read Psalm 49:17; 1 Timothy 6:6, 7; Psalm 39:11; James 4:14; and Ecclesiastes 2:18–22. What do these verses teach us about human life?`

Life is short. When we die, we can’t take anything with us. “They [people] will not take anything with them when they die. They will not take their wealth [riches] with them” (Psalm 49:17, ERV). We leave our things and money behind for someone else to get. Who will get these things? We need to make plans for that.

Most people have saved some money if they have worked for many years. Or they may have a house, property, or other things of worth. What will happen to this money or these riches after a person dies?

Good managers will make a plan or will. A will tells people who gets your money and your things after you die. If you don’t write a will, then your government may decide what happens to your money. (Of course, every state or country has different tax laws you must follow.) What happens if you die without a will? Most governments will give some of your money and property to your family. The church will get nothing. If you want your church to get some money, then you must make a will before you die.

God owns everything (read Psalm 24:1). So, when we finish using what God gave us, then we should give back to God what we have left after we take care of the needs of our loved ones.

`As we know, death can come at any time. Death also can come when we aren’t ready. What will happen to your loved ones if you die today? What will happen to your property? How does that answer make you feel? What will you do about it now?`