---
title:  Start With Personal Needs
date:   07/03/2023
---

In Old Testament times, many of God’s people worked as farmers and shepherds. So, some of God’s promises are written in farm language. That is, these promises use word pictures about sheep and crops. Let’s look at an example of some farm language in the Bible. God says, “Honor the Lord with your wealth [riches] and the first part of your harvest. Then your barns will be full of grain, and your barrels will be overflowing with wine” (Proverbs 3:9, 10, ERV). Most Christians don’t have barns today. So, how do we understand this promise? We trust that God will bless our work and business if we honor and obey Him.

`Read Proverbs 27:23–27. Verse 23 says, “Learn all you can about your sheep” (Proverbs 27:23, ERV). What does this verse say to Christians living today?`

The Bible doesn’t say that riches are evil or that we shouldn’t get riches. Proverbs 27:23–27 encourages us to work hard so that we will have enough money to take care of ourselves and our family. “There will be plenty of goat milk to feed you and your family. It [the goat milk] will make your servant girls healthy” (Proverbs 27:27, ICB).

How can you write that verse today? Maybe we can say, “Review your bank records. Decide how much money you have and how much you owe.” From time to time, review your retirement plan, too. Look at your plan or will for what you want done with your money and property after you die. Make any changes you need to keep them up-to-date. Take care of your business while you are healthy and can make good decisions. Plan ahead for what will happen to your things when they are no longer yours.

In short, being good managers is more than spending and saving wisely while we are alive. Being good managers also includes making plans for what will happen to our money and property after we die. If we die before Jesus comes back, then we will leave our money and things to someone else. So, we must make plans now to decide what to do with the blessings God gave us. We must choose how these riches will bless other people and support God’s work after we are gone.

`Read Proverbs 27:24. What does this verse mean? Why must we always remember this important rule?`