---
title:  Giving Back to God
date:   09/03/2023
---

**Read the verses below. What important rule do all these verses teach? How does this rule help us decide what to do with the money and riches God gives?**

`Psalm 24:1`

`Hebrews 3:4`

`Psalm 50:10`

`Genesis 14:19`

`Colossians 1:15–17`

We are God’s managers. God gives us His money, His property, and His things to manage for Him. God owns everything we have. He gives us life and strength to get riches. When we finish using what God gave us to take care of His things and our familes, we should give any leftover money back to God.

“When you support God’s work, you are saving a treasure in heaven. Your money will be safe in heaven from disaster and loss. Your treasure will continue to grow. It will not fail.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, page 342, adapted.

Here are some good reasons why we should give now, while we live:

1\. You can see what the church does with your money. Maybe your money is used to help build a church, to pay for someone’s education, or to support Bible meetings.

2\. You can help now with your church’s needs.

3\. None of your family or friends can fight over your money after you die.

4\. You will be a good example to other people. You will show people how to love and give.

5\. The ones who get your gift of money after you die will pay less taxes on your gift.

6\. Your money will go to the person you choose after you die. (No one will need to go to court to fight for your money.)

7\. You will show that your heart is not selfish. 8. You show that your treasure is in heaven.