---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   10/03/2023
---

Read “To Wealthy Parents,” in Testimonies for the Church, volume 3, pages 116–130, and “Wills and Legacies,” in Testimonies for the Church, volume 4, pages 476–485; Counsels on Stewardship, pages 323–335.

“Christians will not wait until they are about to die to decide what they will do with their money. They will make a plan while they are strong and healthy. Christians will be good managers. As God’s managers, they will do their duty to God with their property. They will not leave for other people to do the work that God asks them to do.”—Testimonies for Church, volume 4, page 480, adapted.

Why should we decide what we will do with our money before we die? We must have a plan or a will. A will is a written agreement. This agreement lets everyone know what we want done with our money when we die. When we make the plan or will we ask someone to make sure that our wishes are followed and respected after we die. But if we want, we can give our property and money away while we are living. By doing so, we can see our money put to good use. We will feel happy to know that we are making God happy.

For Christians, the Second Coming of Jesus is the “blessed hope.” We all imagine that it will be very wonderful to see Jesus coming in the clouds of heaven. We are eager to hear Him say, “Well done,” to us. But what if we die before Jesus comes back? If we follow God’s plan for our lives, we can see God’s work go forward in this life because of our support. The will that we make today can help God’s work on earth continue long after we are gone.

**Discussion questions**:

`We can put our treasure in heaven now. Is that the same thing as trying to earn or “buy” our place in heaven? Explain your answer.`

`We need to have a giving spirit. At the same time, we also need to be wise and careful. Some people who ask us to support their work are not very honest. They say that something will happen on this date or that date. So, they tell us that we need to send money right away to them before it is too late for the money to do any good. How can we know when someone is trying to trick us to steal our money? And how do we know when the person asking for our support really is honest?`