---
title:  Further Thought
date:  10/04/2026
---

God calls His people to represent His character, but to do this, we need to know Him for ourselves. The best way to see Him clearly, despite our sinful human eyes that too often misunderstand His holy and perfect ways, is through searching His Word, the Bible.

“All the paternal love which has come down from generation to generation through the channel of human hearts, all the springs of tenderness which have opened in the souls of men, are but as a tiny rill to the boundless ocean when compared with the infinite, exhaustless love of God. Tongue cannot utter it; pen cannot portray it. You may meditate upon it every day of your life; you may search the Scriptures diligently in order to understand it; you may summon every power and capability that God has given you, in the endeavor to comprehend the love and compassion of the heavenly Father; and yet there is an infinity beyond. You may study that love for ages; yet you can never fully comprehend the length and the breadth, the depth and the height, of the love of God in giving His Son to die for the world. Eternity itself can never fully reveal it. Yet as we study the Bible and meditate upon the life of Christ and the plan of redemption, these great themes will open to our understanding more and more.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 740.

**Discussion Questions**:

`As you consider the attributes of God that you’ve studied this week, which one has most impacted your understanding of God?`

`What other attributes of God could you study to deepen and strengthen your relationship with Him?`

`With a family member or friend, read or listen to Steps to Christ, chapter 1, and discuss it together. What new insights about God’s character and Jesus has this chapter made you think about?`

`Many people have a distorted picture of God, which Jesus came to correct. What can you do to share a clear, accurate picture of God’s character to those in your sphere of influence?`

`Consider again what you learned on Monday’s reading.  Although we’re clearly sinful and not holy, the Bible also makes some clear statements about God’s people living holy lives. Read 1 Peter 1:13–16, Romans 6:22, and Hebrews 12:14. God is holy and invites us to be holy. But what does it really mean to live a holy life?`

**Summary**: From the beginning of Creation, God has desired to be in a close relationship with us. Although our understanding of His character is the target of Satan’s attacks, God reveals Himself to us most clearly through His Word and through the life of His Son, Jesus. Ultimately, having a clear, beautiful picture of God is essential if we want to deepen our relationship with Him.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

To Be Like Jesus, “Genuine Sanctification Involves Obedience,” February 28, p. 67.\
God’s Amazing Grace, “To Draw Us to God,” April 1, p. 99.
