---
title:  Participating in Resurrection Power
date:  11/07/2023
---

In the remaining verses of Paul’s prayer report, Ephesians 1:20–23, Paul expands on the third topic of insight he hopes that the Holy Spirit will bring to believers: the enormity of God’s power, which He exercises on their behalf. Paul begins by pointing to two salvation-history events as the premiere illustrations of God’s power: (1) the resurrection of Jesus from the dead and (2) the exaltation of Jesus to the throne of the cosmos (Eph. 1:20).

`How is God’s power expressed through the resurrection of Jesus? Eph. 1:20; 1 Cor. 15:20–22; Phil. 3:8–11; Heb. 13:20, 21; 1 Pet. 1:3.`

The resurrection of Jesus is a nonnegotiable belief of the Christian faith (1 Cor. 15:14, 17). It is because Christ is risen that faithful believers await the grand, future resurrection to eternal life at the time of Christ’s return (1 Cor. 15:20–23). It is because Christ is risen that we can look to Him today for all the blessings of the gospel, including the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives.

The imagery, that God “seated Him [Christ] at His right hand” (Eph. 1:20, NKJV), is drawn from Psalm 110:1, the most frequently cited passage in the New Testament (all of the passages just cited seem to draw on it). The exaltation of Christ has a high profile in Ephesians. Believers are “seated with . . . him [Christ Jesus] in the heavenly places” (Eph. 2:6, ESV). In addition, Paul refers to the ascent of Christ as a prelude to Christ’s filling all things and giving gifts to His church (see Eph. 4:8–11).

In Ephesians 4:8–11, Paul warns us away from adopting a merely static image of Christ on the Father’s throne, presenting rather “the dynamic NT picture of the exalted Christ going forth by His Spirit in all the world, conquering and to conquer.”—F. F. Bruce, The Epistles to the Colossians, to Philemon, and to the Ephesians (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1984), p. 133. So, Paul portrays the exaltation/coronation of Christ, not simply as an illustration of the divine power offered to believers but as the source of that power.

`What are the ways that you need Christ’s power in your life, and how can we better avail ourselves of that power? What practices might hinder our access to His power?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Saviour came forth from the grave by the life that was in Himself. Now was proved the truth of His words, “I lay down My life, that I might take it again. . . . I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again.” Now was fulfilled the prophecy He had spoken to the priests and rulers, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.” John 10:17, 18; 2:19.\
Over the rent sepulcher of Joseph, Christ had proclaimed in triumph, “I am the resurrection, and the life.” These words could be spoken only by the Deity. All created beings live by the will and power of God. They are dependent recipients of the life of God. From the highest seraph to the humblest animate being, all are replenished from the Source of life. Only He who is one with God could say, I have power to lay down My life, and I have power to take it again. In His divinity, Christ possessed the power to break the bonds of death.—The Desire of Ages, p. 785.

Go to Christ for relief. Cling to Him. Stay long enough to yield up your will to the will of God. Many are in too great a hurry to pray. With hurried steps they pass through the shadow of Christ’s loving presence, pausing perhaps for a few moments within the sacred precincts, but not waiting for counsel. They have no time to sit down, no time to remain with the divine Teacher. With their burdens, they return to their work.\
Fix your thoughts upon the Saviour. Go apart from the bustle of the world, and sit down under Christ’s shadow. This you must do if you receive the rich blessings He is waiting to bestow on you. Give your thoughts to high and holy things. Then, amidst the din of the daily toil and conflict, your spiritual strength will be renewed.—This Day With God, p. 154.

There is no man living that has any power or ability which he has not received from God, and the source from whence it came is open to the weakest human being. If he will draw near to God, the unfailing source of strength, he will realize that God fulfills His promise. . . . “Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find.” . . .\
The Holy Spirit waits to give aid to every believing soul, and Jesus declares, “Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world.” Let those who believe in Jesus be strong, prayerful, and full of trust in Christ’s power to save. “Call upon Me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me.”—Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers, pp. 379, 380.