---
title:  Why We Refuse To Rest
date:  10/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matthew 10:34–39; Luke 12:13–21; Luke 22:14–30; Matthew 23:1–13; John 14:1–6.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘If people are jealous of others [people], their lives are not right. They do every kind [type; example] of wrong thing to get what they want. They confuse and upset people’ ” (James 3:16, WE).

ASPENS ARE BEAUTIFUL TREES. They can grow 45–90 feet (15–30 meters) tall. Aspens grow well in cold places that have cool summers. People use aspen wood to make furniture, matches, and paper. Deer and other animals often eat the bark of young aspen trees during cold winters when not much food is around. The bark of young aspens is healthful and filled with many vitamins. Aspens need lots of sunshine. They grow all the time, even in winter. So, they are important winter food for different animals.

Aspens have some of the biggest roots in the plant kingdom. The roots of the aspen spread underground and cover large areas. A single aspen tree can live up to 150 years. But the roots of an aspen tree can live below the ground for thousands of years!

In our study this week, we want to discover some of the “roots” or reasons for our not resting in Jesus. Many things can keep us from finding rest. Some of these things are easy to guess. But other things are the same as the deep roots of the aspen: we may not always be aware of the feelings and behaviors that separate us from our Savior.