---
title:  Jesus Divides Us 
date:  11/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Very few of us enjoy arguing or fighting. We want peace. As Seventh-day Adventists, we teach workshops on how to solve problems in our churches and in the workplace.

`Read Matthew 10:34–39. What does Jesus mean in these verses when He says, “ ‘I did not come to bring peace, but war’ ” (Isaiah 9:6, WE)?`

These words of Jesus surprise us. Jesus is the Savior. He came as a helpless baby to this earth. He did not come as a powerful king with bodyguards all around Him. Jesus preached love to His neighbors and enemies. Now He tells His followers that He brings separation and hard times. His followers must have wondered, as we do: How can this be?

Matthew 10:35–39 really is about our being loyal to Jesus. Jesus says Micah 7:6 to His followers. Then He asks them to make choices that will change their lives forever. Yes, a son should love his parents. That love is part of the law that God gave Moses on the mountain. But what if we put our love for our parents before our love for God? Then Jesus says we have a hard decision to make. We must choose between God and our parents. A father and a mother should love and care for their kids. But what if parents put their love for their kids ahead of their love for God? Then Jesus says parents must make a difficult decision. They must choose between God and their children. Jesus must come first in our lives. That is what Jesus is telling us here.

Jesus uses the words “not worthy” (ERV, ICB, NIrV) or “not good enough” (NLV, WE) three times in Matthew 10:37, 38. These words do not show us how good we are. These words are about our friendship with Jesus. We are worthy and good enough when we choose Jesus above everything else. That includes our father, mother, or children. When we choose Jesus, we choose the cross.

“More than anything, I want to see our young people filled with the Spirit of religion that will cause them to pick up the cross and follow Jesus. Go forward, young followers of Jesus. Wear His holy life the same as clothes. Your Savior will lead you to the job that best fits your talents and skills. He will put you where you can do the most good for Him.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, page 87, adapted.