---
title:  A Selfish Heart 
date:  12/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Selfishness is the same as the aspen tree we read about on Sabbath. Selfishness has deep roots named “sin.” Sin keeps us from real rest in Jesus. Selfishness may be the easiest sin for us to show. For many people, selfishness is as natural as breathing.

`Jesus tells a picture story in Luke 12:13–21. What problem does the picture story show us? Are we being selfish when we plan for the future? Is our planning for the future the same as our showing that we do not care about the kingdom of God? If no, then what is Jesus really warning us about in these verses?`

A man asks Jesus for help. The man wants Jesus to tell his brother to divide with him the things that belonged to their dead father. But Jesus refuses to be their judge. Jesus tells the man a picture story. The picture story shows the deeper problem in the hearts of the two brothers: selfishness.

`Think about the many ways you are selfish. How does selfishness hurt your friendship with God? With your husband or wife? With your family? With your church family? With your neighbors? With the people at your job? What answer do we find in Philippians 2:5–8 to this problem?`

The rich man in the picture story in Luke 12:13–21 thinks only about his needs and wishes. He forgets about the things that God wants him to do in this life. What are the important rules of the kingdom of God? For sure, these rules are not about getting more and the best for ourselves on this earth. Paul shows us the important rules of the kingdom of God in Philippians 2:5–8. These rules caused Jesus to go to the cross for us and die in our place.

Philippians 2:5–8 shows us the real meaning of love. Love for God and other people should be the reason for the choices we make. If love is not the reason, then we will continue to put less treasure in heaven. We will collect more riches for ourselves on this earth.

`Why is it so easy to get trapped in the wish for more money? We all need some money to live. But why do we always want more, even if we already have enough for our needs?`