---
title:  The Strong Wish For Fame And Power 
date:  13/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Do you want to feel encouraged and filled with hope? Then read about the last week that Jesus lived and worked for God on this earth. Sadly, this story about Jesus also shows us something that is not very nice about His followers. Their hearts are filled with the strong wish for fame and power. They want to be important in the kingdom of God. These wishes cause them to do and say foolish things.

`Read about the meal with Jesus in Luke 22:14–30. As you read these verses, think about how Jesus must feel as His followers argue about which one of them is the most important (Luke 22:24). Why do the followers of Jesus do this? What is the problem with their hearts?`

Who is the best and most important one of us? This is not the first time the followers of Jesus ask this question. Matthew 18:1 tells us that the followers of Jesus ask Him, “ ‘Who is the most important person in the kingdom of heaven?’ ”(Matthew 18:1, NIrV). Jesus does not answer right away. He wants to teach His followers a lesson. So, He asks a child to come to Him. Then Jesus puts the child in the center of the group. Everyone must wonder, what is Jesus doing? Jesus explains Himself: “ ‘The truth is, you must change your thinking and become like little children. If you don’t do this, you will never enter God’s kingdom’ ” (Matthew 18:3, ERV).

We must allow God to change our hearts. Or we will never find real rest in Jesus. We know that we need God to help us. We know that we cannot depend on ourselves to change the things we wish for. But Jesus can give us new hearts. Jesus tells His followers: Trust Me. Depend on Me for everything. Be the same as this child in your hearts. A man who is really important in the eyes of God will give up his wishes. He will do what God wants him to do.

Sadly, the followers of Jesus have not learned this lesson by the time they eat their last meal with Jesus before He dies on the cross. The followers of Jesus fight and argue. They spoil a perfect meal with Jesus.

All this happened after the followers of Jesus spent a long time working with Jesus. This is a sad example! Their fighting shows us that the human heart is very evil. But there is a beautiful side to this story. Jesus does not give up on His followers.