---
title:  Living A Lie 
date:  14/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Hypocrites are people who want us to believe that they are better than they really are. Hypocrites are fakes. They live a lie. Their private lives do not match what we see in public. So, hypocrites have a “private face” and a “public face.” The public face is the face they show us. The private face is the person they really are. Jesus says the word “hypocrite” seven times in Matthew 23. Jesus names the Jewish religious leaders hypocrites (Matthew 23:13, 14, 15, 23, 25, 27, 29). The New Testament stories about Jesus show how He offers forgiveness to sinners. Many of these sinners are married people who cheated on their husbands or wives, tax collectors, women who sell sex for pay, and even killers. Jesus shows them mercy. But Jesus does not show a lot of mercy to hypocrites (read Matthew 6:2, 5, 16; Matthew 7:5; Matthew 15:7–9; Matthew 22:18).

`Read what Jesus says about the behavior of hypocrites in Matthew 23:1–13. Write down the four things that Jesus says hypocrites are guilty of doing.`

Jesus says the religious leaders do four wrong things. The religious leaders are named Pharisees. The Pharisees are very strict about keeping the law. The Pharisees are very different from the Sadducees. The Sadducees are another Jewish religious group. They are mostly rich and powerful. The Sadducees speak the Greek language well. They know all about the writings of Greek thinkers. The Sadducees do not believe that God will judge all the people on earth. The Sadducees also do not believe in everlasting life. Jesus says that both the Sadducees and the Pharisees are hypocrites.

How are the Sadducees and Pharisees hypocrites? Jesus says hypocrites do not do what they say they will do. Hypocrites make religion hard for people to follow. But hypocrites do not follow the same rules. Hypocrites want people to praise them for their good behavior. Hypocrites want honor that belongs only to God. Jesus is upset with the religious leaders. That is why He calls them hypocrites. But His heart is full of love, even for them.

`Do you need to be a religious leader to be a hypocrite? Of course not! How can we learn to see if we are guilty of this bad behavior? How can we get rid of it?`