---
title:  Finding Rest In Jesus 
date:  15/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`When we are feeling tired and worn out, what can we do to find rest in Jesus? How can we stop feeling afraid? What must we do to win the war against separation, a selfish heart, the wish to be important, the wish for fame and power, and living a lie? Read John 14:1–6 for the answers.`

Real rest always starts with Jesus. Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. He knows the right direction we should go. Jesus is the Law Giver. He is truth made flesh. His Spirit will guide us into all truth (John 16:13). Are you feeling hurt, tired, worn out, sick and discouraged? Then Jesus is not just any life. Jesus is the life. That is why Jesus promises us life that is full and good (John 10:10). This promise also includes our everlasting life and home with Jesus. At the same time, this promise includes a better life with Jesus here and now.

Jesus tells us, “ ‘Do not let your hearts be troubled’ ” (John 14:1, NLV). These words are an invitation. Jesus invites us to trust Him when we feel low. He will give us hope. When we fight hard against sin, Jesus will help us win the war. He will finish His good work He started in our hearts (Philippians 1:6). He will save us.

Things may get very bad at times in life. That is when we must trust in the promise Jesus gave us: Jesus is getting a place ready for us. In this place, we will never feel worn or tired again. Jesus gives us this hope of a better future. He also offers us a better life now. Jesus offers this hope to all of us. Are you an awful sinner? Jesus still offers you this hope. Are you weak? Jesus offers you this hope, even if you made mistakes.

The important thing we must remember is to come to God anyway. Maybe you are hurt. Or broken. God accepts us even if we are not perfect. That is what His loving favor is all about. We must believe that God will give us this favor if we ask for it in faith.

`Read Jeremiah 3:22. What does God ask us to do? What will He do for us when we do what He asks?`

`Jesus promises us: “ ‘I will come back. Then I will take you with me, so you can be where I am’ ” (John 14:3, ERV). What does this promise show us about how important the Second Coming is? Why is this promise so precious?`