---
title:  Further Thought
date:  16/07/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

A heart full of self cannot grow. Have you accepted Jesus as your personal Savior? Then forget about yourself. Try to help other people. Talk about the love of Jesus. Tell people how good Jesus is to you. Do everything God gives you to do. Care about the people around you. Do everything you can to save them. Then Jesus will give you His Spirit of unselfish love. He will help you save other people. Your spiritual life with grow. You will be the same as a fruit tree that produces much fruit. The Spirit of God will be seen in your life. Your faith will grow stronger. Your beliefs will grow stronger too. God will make your love perfect. More and more, you will show the life of Jesus in your own life. Everything clean, holy, and lovely will be seen in you.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 67, 68, adapted.

Ellen G. White gives us advice for solving problems between church members: “The conversations between the church members go on for hours. Their time is wasted. So is the time of the servants of God who must sit there and listen to them talk. The problem is that the love and mercy of God is not alive in the hearts of the church members. They should empty their hearts of all selfishness and pride. Then most problems will be solved in five minutes.”—Ellen G. White, Early Writings, page 119, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In class, think about the things you can empty your heart of selfishness. How can you help each other?`

`Our wanting to do important things is not bad. God wants to do big things in our lives. But how can our wish for these things cause us to become full of self? What can we do to avoid this danger?`

`Most of us do not show people the ugly parts of our hearts. We hide our wish to be important. We hide that we are living a lie. We do not show people we are selfish or greedy. We show them we are nice. But really, our hearts are the same as the roots of the aspen tree we read about on Sabbath. Our evil behavior hides in our hearts below the surface of our skin. How can we get rid of the “root” of our problem and find real rest in Jesus?`

`What hope do we have without the Second Coming? Explain.`