---
title:  I Will Help the Poor
date:   03/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 18:3-18; Psalm 9:18; Psalm 82; Psalm 58:6-8; Psalm 96:6-10; Psalm 99:1-4.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The Lord says, ‘The poor are being robbed. Those [people] who are in need groan [moan; cry in pain]. So I will stand up to help them. I will keep them safe from those [people] who tell lies about them’ ” (Psalm 12:5, NIrV).

We are not the only ones who live in an evil age. The poets who wrote the Book of Psalms also lived in an evil time. The Book of Psalms tells us about God’s anger against all sin and suffering that happens on this earth.

Yes, the Lord is patient. He holds back His anger because He doesn’t want anyone to die. The Lord wants everyone to confess their sins and change their evil ways (2 Peter 3:9-15). God doesn’t always act or do things when we expect Him to or want Him to do things. But we know that the day is coming when God will finish His work as Judge (Psalm 96:13; Psalm 98:9). We need to trust in Him until that day comes. God is a fair and holy Judge (Psalm 89:14; Psalm 97:2). He also is the One who made us. So, God is the only One who can make life new or judge us. God’s work as our Judge includes two parts: (1) God will save His children, and (2) He will destroy evil people because they refused to accept His mercy.

God promises to do these two things for His people. We can trust God to keep His promises. But the Book of Psalms teaches us that God will do His work in His time, not ours.