---
title:  The Lord Is A Mighty Fighter
date:   04/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 18:3-18; Psalm 76:3-9, 12; Psalm 144:5-7. What word pictures do these verses use? How do these word pictures show that God is ready to save His people?`

Psalm 18; Psalm 76; and Psalm 144 are hymns. These hymns praise God for saving His people from their enemies. These hymns show us that God is a Judge and a mighty Fighter. The Book of Psalms often shows God as a mighty Fighter. The poets used this word picture to show us that God fights for His suffering people who cry to Him for help:

> <p></p>
> “The Lord thundered [made loud noise] from heaven.
> <p></p>
> God Most High raised [shouted with] his voice.
> <p></p>
> And there was hail and lightning.
> <p></p>
> He shot his arrows and scattered his enemies.
> <p></p>
> His many bolts [flashes] of lightning confused them [his enemies] with fear.
> <p></p>
> Lord, you spoke strongly.
> <p></p>
> The wind blew from your nose.
> <p></p>
> The valleys of the sea appeared [were seen].
> <p></p>
> The foundations of the earth were seen” (Psalm 18:13-15, ICB).

Psalm 18 helps us to understand that we shouldn’t doubt that God cares for us. He is strong enough to fight our enemies. We just need to wait on Him to help us in His time.

When God’s people needed saving, they knew that human help was useless. King David knew this Bible truth. King David praised God as the One who helped him win the wars he fought. David gave all the praise for his success to God.

David says that the Lord trains his hands for war (Psalm 18:34). But David never praises his own skill in battle. He always trusts in God to fight for him and save him (Psalm 18:47, 48).

In the Book of Psalms, King David praises the Lord as the only Savior of His people (Psalm 144:10-15). Praise and prayer to the Lord are the secrets to David’s success and strength. Praise to the Lord and prayer are more powerful than any weapon of war. We can trust only in God. He is the only One who is worthy of our worship.

`Who gave you your skills and success in life? Why must you always remember that you owe everything to God?`