---
title:  Helping Poor And Needy People
date:   05/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 9:18; Psalm 12:5; Psalm 40:17; Psalm 113:7; Psalm 146:6-10; and Psalm 41:1-3. What message do we get from these poems?`

The Bible teaches us that God cares about people who are poor, needy, widows, orphans, and foreigners (Exodus 22:21-27; Isaiah 3:13-15). The Book of Psalms gives us this same message.

Many poems in the Book of Psalms use the words “poor and needy” to talk about people who need God’s special help. The poets do this to show that God wants to help all people everywhere and not only His chosen people.

The words “poor and needy” mean more than people who don’t have a lot of stuff or money. “Poor and needy” also shows us people who are helpless and easily hurt. God loves poor and needy people very much. The words “poor and needy” also show us that the person suffering is all alone. God is the only One who can help this person. “Poor and needy” also has a spiritual meaning. The poets use it to show a person who loves God and His Bible truth. This person depends fully on God and not on self.

When we take care of the poor and needy (Psalm 41:1-3), we show our faith in God. In Bible times, people who hurt the poor and needy were guilty of a terrible crime (Deuteronomy 15:7-11). The Book of Psalms teaches us to do everything we can to help the poor and needy. We must take a strong stand against anyone who hurts the poor.

The Book of Psalms shows that we can trust only in God for wisdom and safety. God’s people must not put all their faith in humans to save them and solve their problems. Many of these people don’t follow God or His ways.

The Lord Jesus came to this earth and lived as a poor Man. He showed in His life that He cared about the poor and needy. Jesus became poor to make us rich (2 Corinthians 8:9). Jesus’ riches include saving us from sin and suffering. Jesus promises us everlasting life in God’s kingdom (Revelation 21:4). Jesus is our Judge, who will punish everyone who hurts the poor or needy or refuses to help them (Matthew 25:31-46).

`How much do we think about the “poor and needy” who are around us? How much do we do for them?`