---
title:  Evil Leaders
date:   06/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Lord gave Israel’s kings the wisdom to make fair decisions (Psalm 72:1-7, 12-14). Israel’s kings also served as judges. God commanded these leaders to keep peace in Israel and to take care of the poor and needy. When the leaders obeyed God, He promised to bless the people and the land. The king’s strength as a leader came from his obedience to God and not from human might or wisdom.

`What happens when leaders aren’t fair and hurt the people they should protect? Read Psalm 82 for the answer.`

In Psalm 82, God announces His punishments against Israel’s evil judges. In Psalm 82:1, 6, the “gods” are not statues or angels. Angels and statues can’t save God’s people. So, the gods can’t be judged for not saving Israel. The gods, we learn, are Israel’s leaders. How do we know? Because the leaders’ crimes are listed in Psalm 82:2-4. These crimes help us remember the laws that God gave Moses in Deuteronomy 1:16-18 and Deuteronomy 16:18-20. (Also read John 10:33-35.) God asks the leaders if they are fair when they judge problems. God knows that the leaders haven’t been fair. So, God announces their punishment. The leaders have no understanding (Psalm 82:5), because they refuse to obey God’s law (Psalm 119:105).

The Bible tells us again and again that the Lord is the only God. God shares His control of this earth with the human leaders He chooses (Romans 13:1). All too often, these leaders are not loyal to God.

Psalm 82 shows the evil in the hearts of some leaders. These leaders behave as if they are “gods” who are above other people. God gave wisdom and strength to Israel’s leaders. God named these leaders His children. But God rejects evil leaders. God wants evil leaders to remember that they won’t live forever. They must obey the same laws that the people obey. These laws are God’s laws. Everyone must keep God’s holy Law (Psalm 82:6-8).

God will judge the dead and the living. God’s people also must stand in front of God and explain their actions and their behavior to God. Both the leaders and the people should live the way that Jesus, their Judge, lived while He was on this earth. Jesus is the only One who can save them.

`Are you a leader or someone’s boss? How fair are you?`