---
title:  Pour Out Your Anger, Lord!
date:   07/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 58:6-8; Psalm 69:22-28; Psalm 83:9-17; Psalm 94:1, 2; and Psalm 137:7-9 and then answer the questions. What is the poet upset about? Who in these poems is the avenger who punishes evil?`

Some poems in the Book of Psalms ask God to punish people and kingdoms who want to hurt Israel or who hurt them in the past. We may have a hard time understanding why the poets get so mad and upset in their poems. We’ve been taught that we should love our enemies. So, we may feel the angry language of the poets goes against the Bible rule to love your enemies (Matthew 5:44).

But the poet’s anger against evil shows us what is in his heart. His anger shows us that he cares about what happens to people. He also cares about God’s holy law and hates any sin that breaks this law.

The poet doesn’t try to get back at his enemies or punish them. He believes that only God is the Avenger for His people. The poet asks God to remember that He promised to punish evil people with the curses in His promise (Deuteronomy 27:9-16). So, the poet asks God to keep His promise and act now.

We must remember that the poems in the Book of Psalms are prayers. At the same time, they are also announcements about God’s future work as Judge. Psalm 137 warns that God will judge Babylon. Babylon attacked many people and kingdoms and caused much suffering. God will cause the Babylonians to feel the suffering that they caused other people. The poems in the Book of Psalms contain many warnings from God to evil people. God won’t always allow evil people to do whatever they want. God will punish them.

When God judges people, He is fair. He shows mercy. In the same way, God asks His children to pray for the people who hurt them. We also must pray for God to change the hearts and lives of the ones who hurt us so that they will serve Him (Psalm 83:18; Jeremiah 29:7).

God knows all that His children suffer. “Very dear to the Lord are the lives of his followers. He cares when they face death” (Psalm 116:15, ERV). Because God will judge evil people, we must warn everyone against sin and evil. The poets of the Book of Psalms let suffering people know that God sees all their pain. God will be their Avenger. God promises to punish the evil people who hurt His children.