---
title:  Our Judge And His Temple
date:   08/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Where does God’s work as Judge happen? What does this answer mean for us? How does God’s temple in heaven help us understand how God will solve the problem of sin and evil? Read Psalm 96:6-10; Psalm 99:1-4; and Psalm 132:7-9, 13-18 for the answers.`

God’s work as Judge is connected with the temple in heaven. The Bible truth about the temple helped the poet of Psalm 73 understand how God will solve the problem of sin and evil (Psalm 73:17-20). The clothing of Israel’s high priest, or spiritual leader, showed that God’s temple was the place where He will do His work as Judge and solve the sin problem (Numbers 27:21; Exodus 28:15, 28-30). Many poems in the Book of Psalms show God on His throne in the temple in heaven. There, God is ready to judge the dead and the living for everything they did in this life.

God’s temple helps us understand His plan to save us from our sins. In Bible times, people who worshiped false gods believed that sin was something that must be removed with magic. The Bible tells us that sin is breaking God’s law. God’s holy life means that He loves everything that is fair and clean. So, God’s people should be fair and holy in everything they do. To be holy, God’s people must keep His law. The law shows us God’s holy heart and life.

The temple in heaven is the place where God forgives sins. He also makes us new and holy from His temple. At the same time, the God who forgives is also the Avenger for His people. He punishes evil people who don’t confess their sins and stop doing them (Psalm 99:8).

The Lord’s work as Judge happens on Mount Zion. Mount Zion is a name for God’s holy temple. In His work as Judge, God will save His children and punish evil people (Psalm 132:13-18). God’s temple gives His people hope. The temple teaches us to expect God to do His work as Judge. The Book of Psalms gives us faith and hope in God’s work as Judge (Psalm 96:13; Psalm 98:9). Jesus Christ is our Judge who works to save us in the temple in heaven (Revelation 11:15-19).

`Read Romans 8:34. Why is Jesus’ work for us in the temple in heaven good news for His people? How does Romans 8:14 help us answer this question?`