---
title:  Additional thought
date:   09/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Beatitudes,” pages 6-13, 29-35, in _Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_.

“Jesus said, ‘People will insult you and hurt you. They will lie and say all kinds [types] of evil things about you because you follow me. But when they do that, know that great [many] blessings belong to you’ [Matthew 5:11, ERV]. Jesus also told His followers to remember the words of God’s prophets in the Old Testament. These prophets were God’s special messengers. They preached all the words that the Lord told them to say. These special messengers were examples for Jesus’ followers. The Bible says, ‘Brothers and sisters, follow the example of the prophets who spoke for the Lord. The prophets suffered many bad things, but they were patient.’ James 5:10 [ERV]. Abel was the first Christian of all the children that Adam had. Abel was killed because of his faith in the Lord. Enoch lived a life of obedience. The people at that time didn’t understand Enoch because he walked with God. In Noah’s day, the people made fun of him for his faith and beliefs. ‘Some [of God’s children] were laughed at and beaten. Others [of God’s children] were tied up and put in prison.’ [Hebrews 11:36, ERV]. ‘There were women who lost loved ones but got them back when they were raised [brought back to life] from death. Others [some of God’s children] were tortured but refused to accept their freedom. They [God’s children] did this [refused freedom] so that they could be raised [made alive] from death to a better life.’ Hebrews 11:35, ERV].”—Ellen G. White, _Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, page 33, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`When we see evil happening around us, we may wonder, “Is the Lord really in control?” How can we stay strong in the Lord during these times when our faith is put to the test? What must we do to keep our faith strong in God’s love and might? What does the Cross teach us about God’s love and strength?`

`Why is it important not to depend on, or trust in, leaders, governments, or special groups always to make fair decisions or to solve the problems we see around us? Why must we trust only in God’s Word, the Bible, and His work for us as our Judge?`