---
title:  Take the Shoes Off
date:  30/07/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 31:12–18**

**Take the Shoes Off**

Salvation is simple. The jailor who awoke to find the prison doors opened but every prisoner still in their cell asked Paul and Silas, “Sirs, what must I do to be saved?” (Acts 16:30). The answer was straightforward and succinct: “Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house” (Acts 16:31, KJV).

Salvation is also mysterious. Paul speaks of the “mystery of the gospel” (Eph. 6:19). Peter states that even “angels desire to look into” “this salvation,” which “the prophets have inquired and searched carefully” (1 Pet. 1:10, 12).

Indeed, the gospel contains mysteries: how the Author of life died on a cross; how an omnipotent God could create a proverbial rock that He cannot move—that is, human free will; how we are complete in Christ (Col. 2:10) and yet still a work in progress (1 Cor. 15:1, 2, ESV); and “Christ in you, the hope of glory” is the mystery of how it is possible to present “every man perfect in Christ Jesus” (Col. 1:27, 28).

It would be arrogant to think that our finite minds could effortlessly fully grasp the infinite realities involved in God’s work. Salvation is a divine work consisting of elements that are equally simple and mysterious. Inasmuch as the Sabbath commemorates God’s work of creation, it furnishes lessons to help us comprehend, however limited, His work of salvation in our lives.

This week we focus specifically on the aspect of sanctification in the salvation experience. The Sabbath has lessons to teach us here, both as we reflect on the theological concept of the Sabbath and as we strive to observe it in our lives.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 31:12–18 from the translation of your choice. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `