---
title:  You Can Do This
date:  31/07/2022
---

#### inGest

After concluding His interaction with the rich young ruler, Jesus reassured His befuddled disciples that “the things which are impossible with men are possible with God” (Luke 18:27). The opposite principle is that the things which are possible with men God does not do. While this is not explicitly stated in the Bible, it is fully biblical. In support of this, Ellen White writes, “What human power can do divine power is not summoned to do.” (White, The Desire of Ages, 535.) Without attempting to improve on the phraseology of Ellen White, her quotation may be rendered, “God requires of His people only what is possible for them . . . with His help.”

What connection has this with Sabbath observance? Much in every way!

To the world, God says, “Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy” (Exod. 20:8). He did not say, “Make it holy,” but, “Keep it holy.” No created being, angelic or human, can make anything holy. That can be done by God alone. But created beings are called upon to keep or preserve or guard or cherish what God has done. This they can do with God’s help. “Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy” is therefore entirely possible for those to whom the commandment is given. No objection to this command can be offered on the basis of “I can’t,” because God effectively says, “You can!”

Ellen White writes, “The only-begotten Son of God came to our world as a man, to reveal to the world the fact that men through divine power could keep the law of God.” (White, Signs of the Times, April 10, 1893, par. 2.)

Obedience is possible. Or, disobedience is inexcusable, because God only requires of His people what is possible. All the commandments are Mission Possible!

In full support, John the Beloved wrote, “For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments: and his commandments are not grievous” (1 John 5:3, KJV). The Ten Commandments are not an unbearable weight. They can be kept. How reassuring are these words: “As the will of man co-operates with the will of God, it becomes omnipotent. Whatever is to be done at His command may be accomplished in His strength. All His biddings are enablings.” (White, Christ’s Object Lessons, 333.)

Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. You can do this!

` `