---
title:  God’s Will
date:  01/08/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Solomon, the wisest person who ever lived, said that keeping the Ten Commandments encompasses “the whole duty of man” (Eccles. 12:13, KJV). From this statement, one may reasonably conclude that everything God requires of His children lies within the ambit of the Ten Commandments. The rightness or wrongness of any act is judged by the law of God, an expression of His righteousness. The Psalmist describes this law as “exceeding broad” (Ps. 119:96, KJV). Since laws or commandments are given to be obeyed, logically and theologically, this means that obedience is the whole duty of man!

The apostle Paul wrote, “For this is the will of God, even your sanctification” (1 Thess. 4:3, KJV). He also wrote that Christ gave Himself for the church “that he might sanctify and cleanse it” (Eph. 5:26, KJV). The end result of this sanctifying and cleansing is “that he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish” (Eph. 5:27, KJV).

This was the condition of animals offered to God in the sanctuary system of the Old Testament (Lev. 1:3, 10). This was the indispensable state of the ultimate sacrifice (1 Pet. 1:19). This will be the state of the redeemed (Rev. 14:5).

Is there a connection to Sabbath observance in all of this? There is!

The Sabbath of the Ten Commandments is explicitly described by God as a sign between Him and His people—a sign that He is the one who sanctifies them. “Verily my sabbaths ye shall keep [obey]: for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that ye may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you” (Exod. 31:13, KJV).

“You keep . . . I sanctify!”

Obedience and sanctification are inseparably linked in this passage. While sinners absolutely cannot sanctify themselves, they also cannot be sanctified without obedience. Ellen White makes this related statement: “While good works will not save even one soul, yet it is impossible for even one soul to be saved without good works.” (White, Faith and Works, 111.) It is impossible for anyone to be saved without obedience! This is not a conundrum; it is an expression of the truth that “in the work of salvation God requires the cooperation of man.” (Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, Oct 30, 1888, par 3.) How beautifully is this truth expressed in the most treasured Bible verse, “For God so loved the world, that he gave [God’s part] his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him [sinner’s part] should not perish, but have everlasting life” (John 3:16, KJV).

True Sabbath observance acknowledges the unbreakable bond between obedience and sanctification. It is God who sanctifies, but He has a non-negotiable condition for this sanctification: obedience!

` `