---
title:  Some Things Take Time
date:  03/08/2022
---

#### inVite

The well-known expression “Rome wasn’t built in a day” was first recorded in English in 1545 and was actually used by Queen Elizabeth I in 1564. The meaning is that important tasks take time. None will argue the truthfulness of this claim. It may be applied powerfully to spiritual matters.

The Bible says, “For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it” (Exod. 20:11, KJV). The Omnipotent One took six literal days to accomplish something that He could have done in six seconds or fewer. Herein lies great comfort for those fighting the good fight of faith.

Physical creation has a spiritual parallel: salvation. As verily as the word created heaven and earth, so verily does the same creative word save the repentant sinner. Ellen White writes, “The new birth is accomplished by the reception of the word of God.” (White, Signs of the Times, April 30, 1896, par. 2.) This is merely a simplified version of the following: “Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures” (James 1:18, KJV).

Sabbath-keeping acknowledges the six-day duration of creation. Applied spiritually, the child of God may take comfort in knowing that the Creator who took six days to create the physical world will similarly take time to create a Christlike character in those who trust Him. Through the great apostle Peter, the Savior appeals thus to His followers: “As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that he may grow thereby” (1 Pet. 2:2, KJV). And, “Grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ” (2 Pet. 3:18, KJV). As physical creation took time, so spiritual growth takes time—much more time! No one becomes a saint (or a demon) overnight.

Some who come to Christ after years of enslavement to one sin or another may become frustrated at the lack of spiritual progress. They need to understand that growth does not occur instantly. Growth in Christ (spiritual creation) takes time. Justification may be instant, but sanctification takes time. Rome wasn’t built in a day. “Godliness—godlikeness—is the goal to be reached.” (White, Education, 18.)

` `