---
title:  When What We Say Doesn’t Match What We Do
date:   19/07/2026
---

All during Christian history, pastors, thinkers, and church members studied the New Testament to learn about the church. They wondered, “What makes the church a success?” They also asked, “What is the best way for church members to work together?” The amazing stories about the church in the book of Acts show us the answers. But often, we don’t remember an important part of the stories: people have problems. So, we can read the New Testament to see also what a church should not do. Paul’s letters to the Corinthians can help us understand that better.

`Read 1 Corinthians 5:1–13. What problem does Paul talk about in these verses? Why is this problem so awful?`

Paul uses the words “his stepmother” (1 Corinthians 5:1, ICB). So, the verses show that a man is having sex with his stepmother. Earlier, Paul wrote, “People from Chloe’s house have told me news about you” (1 Corinthians 1:11, EASY). The news Paul is talking about may be this relationship between this man and his stepmother. Sex between family members is a terrible sin. That’s why Paul says, “Even people who do not know God do not do things as bad as that!” (1 Corinthians 5:1, EASY). And this sin is now happen­ing in a Christian church during New Testament times? Paul’s words in 1 Corinthians 5:1, 2 show us that the news surprises and upsets him.

As bad as this sin is, the problem gets worse. Paul gets more upset when he learns that the Corinthians aren’t sorry or ashamed of the problem in their church. They are filled with pride because they welcomed this man into the church as a member (1 Corinthians 5:1, 2). Worse, the Corinthians are bragging about it (1 Corinthians 5:2, 6)! Paul wants to correct the problem with the man. Paul also wants to correct the church. The church isn’t living what they believe. Paul is so upset with the church. What is wrong with these people?

We don’t really know why the church accepted this man. Maybe he was rich and gave the church a lot of money. Then the church became ‘blind’ to his sin (Leviticus 18:7, 8). Worse, in Paul’s eyes, they bragged about it!

`What things do we accept that the Bible warns against?`