---
title:  Sex Sins in the Church
date:   20/07/2026
---

What must we do when there are sex sins in the church? What is the best way to solve the problem? The answer isn’t always easy. The problem was hard for Paul to solve. The problem is hard for us to solve, too. So, what do we do? We must follow the Bible. We must pray and act with love. We want the person who is being punished to come back to Jesus.

`What does Paul tell the church to do? Read again 1 Corinthians 5:1–13 for the answer.`

In 1 Corinthians 5, Paul says that the man who had sex with his stepmother should be removed from the church (1 Corinthians 5:2). Also, the man should be “punished” (1 Corinthians 5:3). Then Paul tells the church to “hand this man over to Satan” (1 Corinthians 5:5, NIrV). Paul adds, “Do what the Bible says: ‘Send the bad person away from among yourselves’ ” (1 Corinthians 5:13, EASY). Paul tells the church members not to “be friends with people” who do sex sins (1 Corinthians 5:9, 11, EASY). Paul warns, “Do not even agree to eat a meal with them” (1 Corinthians 5:11, EASY). Paul uses strong language that may upset modern readers. But we must remember that Paul is talking about someone who is not hiding his sin. So, Paul must use strong language to solve the problem. Let’s look at some of what Paul says and explain what his words mean.

**“Send the bad person away”** (1 Corinthians 5:13, EASY; also read verse 2). This verse is talking about what punishment the church should give the man.

**“Give this man to Satan”** (1 Corinthians 5:5, ICB). This man didn’t live in obedience to God’s law. The man chose not to be under God’s protection. So, the man put himself under Satan’s control.

**“You must not be friends with people”** who are doing sex sins (1 Corinthians 5:9, 11, EASY). **“Do not even agree to eat a meal with them”** (1 Corinthians 5:11, EASY). When we are close friends with people who do sex sins, we may want to copy their sins. So, we need to protect ourselves as best we can from the evil around us.

**“Then God may save the man’s spirit”** (1 Corinthians 5:5, EASY). Church punishment is meant to help sinners give up their sins and come back to God. Church punishment succeeds when the punished member comes back to the church.