---
title:  Judgment and the Character of God
date:  23/02/2022
---

#### inVite

The forgiveness of our sins implies two phases in Jesus’ mediation in the two apartments of the heavenly sanctuary. First, Jesus removed our sins and carried them Himself on the cross to provide forgiveness to everyone who believes in Him (Acts 2:38; 5:31). On the cross Jesus won the right to forgive anyone who believes in Him because He has carried their sin. He has also inaugurated a new covenant, which allows Him to put God’s law in the heart of believers through the Holy Spirit (Heb. 8:10–12; Ezek. 36:25–27). After dying on the cross, Jesus ascended to the first heavenly apartment to commence the work of continual intercession (and continuing into the second phase), typified by the ministry in the Holy Place and Old Testament daily sacrifices.

A second phase in the ministry of Jesus, as typified by the second apartment Most Holy Place, consists of a judgment, the pre-Advent judgment, which was still future from the point of view of Hebrews (Heb. 2:1–4; 6:2; 9:27, 28; 10:25). This judgment begins with God’s people and is described in Daniel 7:9–27, Matthew 22:1–14, and Revelation 14:7. Its purpose is to show the righteousness of God in forgiving His people. In this judgment the records of their lives will be open for the universe to see. God will show what happened in the hearts of believers and how they embraced Jesus as their Savior and accepted His Spirit in their lives.

Professor Jiří Moskala has explained the nature of this pre-Advent judgment. God “is not there in order to display my sins like in a shop window. He will, on the contrary, point first of all to His amazing transforming powerful grace, and in front of the whole universe He, as the true Witness of my entire life, will explain my attitude toward God, my inner motives, my thinking, my deeds, my orientation and direction of life. He will demonstrate it all. Jesus will testify that I made many mistakes, that I transgressed His holy law, but also that I repented, asked for forgiveness, and was changed by His grace. He will proclaim: ‘My blood is sufficient for the sinner, his orientation of life is on Me, his attitude toward Me and other people is warm and unselfish, he is trustworthy, he is My good and faithful servant.’ ” (“Toward a Biblical Theology of God’s Judgment: A Celebration of the Cross in Seven Phases of Divine Universal Judgment,” Journal of the Adventist Theological Society 15, no. 1 (2004): 155.)

` `