---
title:  Paul’s Third Trip to Share the Good News
date:   01/09/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 18:24–28; Acts 19; Acts 20:7–12, 15–27; 2 Corinthians 4:8–14; Acts 21:1–15.  

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘I do not think of my life as worth much, but I do want to finish the work the Lord Jesus gave me to do. My work is to preach the Good News of God’s loving-favor’ ” (Acts 20:24, NLV). 

LUKE does not announce to his readers that he is going to start a new story about Paul. Luke just starts telling us about Paul’s third trip to share the Good News. The book of Acts says that Paul spends some time in Antioch. Then Luke tells us that Paul is going on another trip. Paul “traveled all over Galatia and Phrygia. He gave strength to all the believers there” (Acts 18:23, NIrV). So, the first 1,500 miles Paul travels are explained in only one verse!

Why did Luke not say much about Paul’s trip? Because the next city he traveled to, Ephesus, was more important than what happened on the way to that city. Paul traveled to many places. But he spent the most time in Ephesus. His trip to Ephesus was a big success. “Every Jew and Greek in Asia heard the Word of the Lord” (Acts 19:10, ICB). During this same time, one of Paul’s coworkers may have started the churches in Colossae, Hierapolis, and Laodicea.

This trip is Paul’s last, or the last one in Acts that Luke tells us about. Paul started this trip as a free man. Later, Luke tells us about one more trip Paul makes. But during that trip, Paul travels to Rome as a prisoner.