---
title:  'Paul’s Trip To Ephesus: Part 1'
date:   02/09/2018
---

Acts 18:24–28 tells us that Paul traveled to Ephesus. On his way there, a Jewish believer named Apollos came to that city too. Apollos was a man who was very good with words. He knew the Bible well too. We can see that Apollos was a follower of Jesus from the way Luke writes about Apollos. Luke says: “He [Apollos] had been taught about the Lord and was always excited to talk to people about Jesus. What he taught was right” (Acts 18:25, ERV). But Apollos knew only about the baptism that John talked about. Apollos learned from John the Baptist himself. So, Apollos learned about Jesus during the time that Jesus was on earth. But then Apollos must have moved away from Jerusalem before God poured His Holy Spirit on the first believers. 

This happening helps explain why Aquila and Priscilla needed to teach Apollos more about Jesus. Apollos knew how to use the Hebrew Bible to show people that Jesus was the Savior that God sent to His people. But at the same time, Apollos needed to learn the most up-to-date information and news about Jesus’ work. Aquila and Priscilla and the other believers in Ephesus gave Apollos a special letter. This letter was written to the churches in Achaia (Acts 18:27), telling them to accept Apollos and the work he was sent to do. This letter allowed Apollos to work with much success in Corinth (1 Corinthians 3:4–6; 1 Corinthians 4:6; 1 Corinthians 16:12). 

`Read Acts 19:1–7. As these verses show us, what happens to Paul when he arrives in Ephesus?`

“Paul arrived in Ephesus. There he met 12 men who had followed John the Baptist. These men also learned something about the work of Jesus, the same as Apollos had. These 12 men were not as wise or as skilled as Apollos. But they had the same faith in Jesus that Apollos had. They also had the same desire to tell people about Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders], page 282, adapted.

The 12 men are baptized. God gives these 12 men the Holy Spirit. Then they begin to speak different languages. That fact shows us that they are Christian workers, the same as Apollos was. God gives them the gift of speaking in different languages so they can explain the Good News to everyone anywhere they go.