---
title:  'Paul’s Trip To Ephesus: Part 2'
date:   03/09/2018
---

In Ephesus, Paul did the same thing he almost always did when he arrived in a city. First, he preached in the synagogue. A synagogue is a Jewish “church” or place of worship. But many Jews quickly turned against Paul’s message. So, Paul and the new believers moved to a place where a man named Tyrannus owned a school. Paul preached there every day for two years (Acts 19:8–10). All Ephesus heard the Good News about Jesus because of Paul’s work there (Acts 19:10, 26).   

In Acts 19:11–20, Luke adds a few more stories about miracles. These miracles show how God’s power wins against magic. Ephesus was a city where magic was everywhere. God used Paul to do many healing miracles. One example may seem strange to us: people took aprons and handkerchiefs that touched Paul’s skin or that Paul used and gave these pieces of cloth to sick people. It seems that these pieces of cloth were able to heal people (Acts 19:12)! This miracle helps us remember how Jesus healed the woman who bled for 12 years (Luke 8:44). God used very strange and special miracles to show the Ephesians that His power was stronger than any magic (Acts 19:11). These examples show us how God meets the needs of people where they are.

Then Paul decided to go to Jerusalem after he finished working in Ephesus (Acts 19:21). Luke does not say why. But we know from Paul’s own writing that he wanted to bring the money he collected for the poor to the Jerusalem church (Romans 15:25–27; 1 Corinthians 16:1–3). There was a food shortage during the time Claudius ruled in Rome. Many people were hungry. That hard time made the believers in Jerusalem very poor. Plus, many believers gave the things they owned to other people. So, Paul wanted to help them (Galatians 2:10). Paul wanted his gift to build their trust in him as a leader and to bring peace to the church.

`Read Acts 19:23–41. In these verses, what is the real reason for the attacks against Paul that start in Ephesus at the end of his stay there?`

Demetrius’s fight with Paul was about worshiping false gods. But the real reason for Demetrius’s anger was money. Do you see how Demetrius behaved as if he cared about religion? But all Demetrius wanted was to get more money.