---
title:  Paul Visits Troas
date:   04/09/2018
---

Paul decided to leave the city of Ephesus after the trouble with Demetrius (Acts 19:23–41). So, Paul went to Macedonia and Achaia first before going to Jerusalem (Acts 20:1–3). Members from some of the non-Jewish churches went with him on this trip to Macedonia and Achaia (Acts 20:4).

`Read Acts 20:7–12. Many people often use these verses to prove that the Sabbath was changed to Sunday. What is wrong with this thinking?`

At the end of Paul’s visit to Troas, he went to a church meeting “on the first day of the week” (Acts 20:7, NLV). Everyone gathered “to eat the Lord’s Supper” (Acts 20:7, NLV). So, some Bible thinkers say that this verse proves that in Paul’s time the non-Jewish churches had already started to worship on Sunday instead of Sabbath. 

But before we say that this idea is true, we have to make sure we understand the exact day that the meeting happened. We also need to know what the meeting was about. So, let us look more closely at the story. The verses say that lights were used for the meeting (Acts 20:8). The verses also tell us that Paul’s sermon lasted until midnight (Acts 20:7), and then it went on until the sun came up (Acts 20:11). The verses also tell us that Eutychus fell into a deep sleep during the meeting (Acts 20:9). All these things show us that the meeting happened at night. 

But the next question we need to ask is: Did the meeting happen before Sunday or the night after Sunday? The answer depends on how Luke counts time. The Jews said a day started at one sundown and ended at the next sundown. But the Romans did not count time in the same way as the Jews. For the Romans, a day started on midnight and ended the next midnight. So, if we count time using the Jewish rule for counting, then the meeting happened on Saturday night. But if we use the Roman rule for counting, then the meeting happened Sunday night. Either way, Acts 20:7–12 shows us that the meeting was a special one because Paul was leaving the following morning. Everyone got together to hear what Paul had to say. So, it is hard to see how anyone could use this story to say that the Sabbath was changed to Sunday. 

`How does the Bible teaching about the Sabbath help make our faith as Seventh-day Adventists stronger?`