---
title:  Paul’s Trip To Miletus
date:   05/09/2018
---

Paul made one more stop on his way to Jerusalem. He went to Miletus. There he preached a goodbye sermon to the Ephesian church leaders. 

`Read Acts 20:15–27. What does Paul talk about at the beginning of his sermon?`

Paul believes he will never come back again to Asia. He already has plans for a new trip. He plans to go Rome and Spain (Romans 15:22–29). So, Paul starts his sermon by talking about the years he stayed in Ephesus. Paul tells the church leaders about what happened when he lived with the Ephesians. But he also talks about what he worries may happen to him in Jerusalem in the future.

Paul had a good reason to be afraid. The Jerusalem church felt a little angry at Paul. That was because of Paul’s fight against Christians in the past. The church also worried about Paul’s message. Paul preached the Good News that Jesus saves us only by faith. So, many Jewish leaders felt Paul was not loyal to Jewish life and the Jewish faith (Acts 23:1, 2). By the middle of the first century [years 1–100], the people of Judea were tired of the Roman government. This feeling was found in all parts of Jewish life. Maybe the church felt this way too. So, it is easy to see that Paul’s work with the non-Jews did not have make him very popular with the Jews (Acts 21:27–36). 

Paul had other things to worry about too. In Acts 20:28–31, Paul talked about what church leaders in Ephesus should do about false teachers. Paul said false teachers were the same as wolves who tried to lead the flock the wrong way and to destroy them. The danger of false teachers was real even in Paul’s day. Long before Paul’s time, Solomon said: “There is nothing new under the sun” (Ecclesiastes 1:9, NLV). A history about the Christian church shows that false teachers hurt the church very much. The problem caused by false teachers will continue in the church until the end of time (2 Timothy 4:3).

Yes, Paul had many things to make him worry. But he never stopped believing in God. 

`Read 2 Corinthians 4:8–14. What is Paul saying in these verses that we need to remember and follow when troubles come? Where did Paul put his hope?`