---
title:  Paul Visits Tyre And Caesarea
date:   06/09/2018
---

Luke tells us about what happens to Paul on his way to Jerusalem. After Paul goes to Miletus, he spends a week in the city of Tyre in Phoenicia (Acts 21:1–6). But while Paul is there, the Holy Spirit leads believers in Tyre to warn Paul not to go to Jerusalem. The church’s warning does not go against God’s command to Paul to go to Jerusalem. How do we know? We know by looking at the Greek wording in Acts 19:21 for “made plans to go” (ERV). The Greek wording really means: “the Holy Spirit led Paul to make plans.” What the words in Acts 21:4 tells us is that Paul does not make this decision by himself. Maybe the Holy Spirit shows the Christians in Tyre the dangers that Paul will experience. So, these Christians warn Paul not to go to Jerusalem right away. Paul himself does not know what will happen to him when he arrives in Jerusalem (Acts 20:22, 23). We see from Paul’s experience that God does not always make everything clear to us all at one time. 

`Read Acts 21:10–14. In these verses, a man named Agabus gives Paul a special warning in Caesarea. How does Agabus’s warning show Paul the trouble that waits for him in Jerusalem?` 

Agabus was a prophet. A prophet is a special messenger that God sends to His people. We already met Agabus earlier in Acts 11:27–30. In this story, Agabus warns the church about the food shortage. In Acts 21, Agabus does what many Old Testament prophets did. He acts out his message to show that Paul will be arrested when he arrives in Jerusalem. Then Paul’s enemies will give him to the Romans. 

The Christians who are with Paul take Agabus’s message as a warning. They tell Paul to not go to Jerusalem. Paul’s heart is touched by their worry for him. But he makes up his mind to finish his work, even if he dies. For Paul, the Good News and peace in the church are more important than his own safety.

“Paul never came near Jerusalem before with his heart so sad as now. He knows that he will find few friends and many enemies. He nears the city that had turned away from Jesus and killed the Son of God. God was very angry with the city.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], pages 397, 398, adapted.