---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   07/09/2018
---

“The Jews were very angry at the Christians who preached the Good News. The Christians had a lot of success. Their new teaching helped the Jews let go of the false idea that they must follow rules and laws to be saved. This teaching also said that non-Jews were the same as the Jews. Both Jews and non-Jews were the children of Abraham. Paul himself said: ‘There is no difference in men in this new life. Greeks and Jews are the same. The man who has gone through [experienced] the religious act of becoming a Jew and the one who has not are the same’ [Colossians 3:11, NLV]. The Jews felt that the words Paul spoke were a crime against God. So, they decided to stop Paul forever.”—The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 390, adapted.

“Paul could not trust in his own brothers in the faith to support him and have mercy on him. The Jews who did not believe in Jesus followed Paul closely. They were quick to spread ugly lies about Paul in Jerusalem. They wrote ugly letters about Paul and his work. Some leaders in the Christian church read these letters and believed them. These leaders did nothing to stop these lies or to support Paul.”—Page 398, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Paul met some Christians in Ephesus who were followers of John the Baptist (Acts 19:1–7). Some Adventists use these verses to say that Christians from other churches need to become baptized again when they join the Adventist Church. Is that idea correct? If yes, why? Did you see that Apollos was not baptized again? What does that also teach us?`

`2.	Many Jews who did not believe in Jesus turned against Paul. Many Jews who believed in Jesus also turned against Paul. They accused Paul of changing God’s law. Many people who worshiped false gods hated the message Paul preached. But Paul continued to do the work God gave him anyway. What can we learn from Paul’s story about not giving up?`

`3.	Think about some of the verses and ideas people use to say that the Sabbath was changed to Sunday. How do we prove that these ideas are false? How do we also show that keeping Sabbath is not about trying to be saved by obeying the law?`