---
title:  Resting In The Promises Of Jesus
date:  18/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Revelation 1:9–19; Matthew 24:4–8, 23–31; Revelation 14:6–12; Hebrews 11:13–16.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “The holy writings say, ‘No eye has seen the things God has made ready for those who love him. No ear has heard about them. No person’s heart has ever thought about them’ ” (1 Corinthians 2:9, WE).

DO YOU EVER FEEL you are in the middle of a big war? A war between good and evil? Many people feel this way, even people who are not religious. As Seventh-day Adventists, we feel this way, for sure, because we know this war is real. The Bible teaches that we are in a big war between good (Jesus) and evil (Satan).

The war between Jesus and Satan happens worldwide. Really, this war is even bigger than that, because this war started in heaven (Revelation 12:7). As we live our busy lives, we easily can miss seeing the escape plan God made for us from this war. Fear can cause us to miss seeing this plan, too. Many things in life can make us afraid: countries at war with each other, sudden disasters in nature, and citizens fighting against their own governments. But the Bible can help us stay calm because we know where we are going and how everything will turn out.

The war between good and evil is personal, too. We all have tests of faith in our everyday lives that show us we are in this war. This week, we look at how we can rest in Jesus, even while we are in the middle of this big war.