---
title:  A Dream About The End 
date:  19/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

John is sent to the rocky island of Patmos to die. John is the only one of the twelve followers of Jesus who is still alive. John is old now. He is far away from everything dear to him. What must he be thinking as he sits on this lonely island where he will spend the rest of his life? For sure, John thinks about Jesus. John saw Jesus go back to heaven. John saw the two angels who said, “ ‘Men of Galilee, why are you standing here looking into the sky? You saw Jesus taken away from you into heaven, He will come back in the same way you saw him go’ ” (Acts 1:11, ERV).

The angels said that many years ago. But Jesus still has not come back. The other followers of Jesus who were there on that day have died. Most of these followers were killed. The church is now made of young people who never met Jesus face to face. The church is under awful attack from the Kingdom of Rome. Worse, false teachers inside the church attack Bible truth. All these troubles must have made John feel tired and worn. Then all the sudden, there on the island John sees a vision from God.

`What comfort do you think this vision must have given John? For the answer, read Revelation 1:9–19.`

Jesus told His followers, “ ‘Teach them to do all the things I have told you to do. I am with you always, even to the end of time’ ” (Matthew 28:20, WE). These words must have encouraged John on the island of Patmos. In the same way, the visions in the book of Revelation must have comforted John, too.

In the visions from Jesus, John sees the future of the church on earth until the end of time. Jesus shows John how everything will end. John says, “ ‘Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. The first heaven and the first earth had disappeared. Now there was no sea. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. It was prepared [made ready] like [the same as] a bride dressed for her husband’ ” (Revelation 21:1, 2, ERV).

John wrote about his big, end-time vision in the book of Revelation. This vision of the new earth helped John to rest in the promises of God.

`How does knowing the good news about the future give us comfort now?`