---
title:  The Time Of Trouble 
date:  20/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Matthew 24, Jesus tells His followers and us what will happen in the future. His sermon covers future history from His time until the Second Coming and beyond.

Jesus wants to show His people then and now what will happen so they can get ready for the Second Coming. Jesus shares the future with us in Matthew 24 because He also wants us to rest in His love. In the end times, everything around us will fall apart. But we can trust in the promises of Jesus to keep us safe.

Seventh-day Adventists know from Daniel about that future time of trouble: “ ‘There will be a time of much trouble, the worst since nations [countries] have been on earth’ ” (Daniel 12:1, ERV). Jesus wants us to be ready for this time, which happens just before His Second Coming.

`What will happen at the Second Coming? How can we avoid being tricked by false teachers right before Jesus comes? For the answer, read Matthew 24:4–8, 23–31.`

The Second Coming will be a real happening at the end of time. Jesus spends lots of time talking about His coming in Matthew 24. So, the Second Coming is very important.

What was the last big worldwide happening that destroyed the earth? The Flood. Think about this: only eight people on the whole earth were ready for it. Jesus compares the Second Coming to the Flood (Matthew 24:37–39). Sure, no one knows the day or the hour when Jesus will come back (Matthew 24:36). But God has told us about the signs that will happen on the earth before Jesus comes back. So, we can watch for these things. Then we will know that the Second Coming is very close. And we will be ready.

`God has given us important end-time work to do. What work is that? For the answer, read Matthew 24:9–14.`

In the worldwide war between good and evil, we are more than just watchers. We help share the Good News about Jesus with other people all over the earth. What does this mean for us? People will attack us for our faith.

`How do we stay “ ‘strong in the faith’ ” (Matthew 10:22, NIrV) to the very end of time?`