---
title:  The Job God Gives Us To Do Right Now 
date:  21/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Revelation 14 tells us the reason for our being here as a church on this earth. Now is the time when God will judge all people on earth. We must help people everywhere get ready for the Second Coming of Jesus.

`Read Revelation 14:6–12. What worldwide messages must we announce to people on the earth? Why are these messages so important? Why do we need to announce them right now?`

As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe in “present truth” (2 Peter 1:12). Present truth is the Bible truth we need most for our time. Revelation 14:6–12 shows us the present truth for our time: the Three Angels’ Messages. These messages show us our job at this time in history.

Do you see that the First Angel’s Message starts with “the Good News that lasts [continues] forever” (Revelation 14:6, NLV)? Our only hope of being saved rests on this Good News. Next, we learn from the First Angel’s Message that “ ‘the time has come for God to judge all people’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). Then the First Angel announces that we must “worship God. He made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs [places where water comes out of the earth] of water’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). The Second Angel announces that Babylon is destroyed (Revelation 14:8). Babylon is a word picture for false religion. Then the Third Angel warns, “God will punish all those [people] who worship the beast [wild animal from the sea] and the beast’s idol [statue of a false god]’ ” (Revelation 14:9, ERV). The chapter ends with this verse about the end-time people of God: “ ‘This demands [asks of us; calls for] patience [being patient] from God’s holy people, who keep God’s commandments and the faith of Jesus’ ” (Revelation 14:12, NTE). The “faith of Jesus” is not the same thing as our faith in Jesus. Faith in Jesus is our belief in Jesus as our Savior. But the faith of Jesus is His holy life of obedience. He cleans our hearts and gives us His obedience.

`Read Revelation 14:11. This verse shows us the people who worship the wild sea animal and his statue. The people who worship this animal have no rest. Why is that? No rest day or night? How awful! These people do not have the rest that God offers the people who trust in Him.`