---
title:  Rest In Peace 
date:  22/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

For many hundreds of years, Christians have waited for Jesus to come back. His coming is our highest hope. And not just ours. The Second Coming is the dearest hope of all the people of God who ever lived.

`Read Hebrews 11:13–16. What important promise do we read in these verses? How is this promise for people in the past and for us, too?`

Do you see that Hebrews says, “These people all died still believing in God. They did not get the things God had promised them’ ” (Hebrews 11:13, WE)? In many ways, these verses will not mean anything to us if we believe the popular teachings about death today. These popular teachings say that when people die, they go to heaven. Now they are forever with Jesus enjoying everlasting life. That is what people said when Baptist Pastor Billy Graham died. We heard again and again that he was in heaven with Jesus.

That is odd, because people who believe this view often say something else that goes against this thinking. When someone dies, they say, “May he or she rest in peace.” What is going on here? Are dead people resting in peace in the grave? Or are they alive up in heaven? Let us ask the Bible for the answer.

`How does Jesus talk about death in John 11:11?`

Jesus shows us that dead people do not go live in heaven after they die. Dead people rest. “For believers, death is only a small problem. Jesus says we should not worry about death at all. Why? Because death will not continue forever. Jesus says, ‘I tell you the truth. If anyone obeys my teaching, he will never die’ John 8:51 [ICB]. And ‘ “Whoever obeys my teaching will never die” ’ John 8:52 [ERV]. For Christians, death is the same as sleep. Death is a small moment that is silent and dark. Is Jesus your life? If yes, then ‘when he comes again, you will share in his glory’ Colossians 3:4 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 787, adapted.

Jesus compares death to a sleep (John 11:11, 14). He also adds that both the saved and the lost will get their reward after He wakes them up from the dead (John 5:28, 29). So, we must be ready for death whenever it comes.