---
title:  Be Filled With Joy! 
date:  23/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Many people who have smartphones use Google Maps. How did we ever live without it?! Maybe you are worried about going somewhere you have never been before. But with Google Maps on your phone, you can easily find your way anywhere, even in a foreign city. Google Maps is a word picture for the peace and rest God wants us to have when we trust Him about what the Bible says will happen in the future.

Sometimes, we may put the wrong address into Google Maps. Or we may just decide not to follow the directions because we think we know a shortcut. So, we may end up somewhere we did not want to be. And that may not be in a place where we can find rest.

`Read Philippians 4:4–6. What does Paul say we must do to have rest and peace in our busy and often painful lives?`

In these verses, Paul does not say to be joyful always in all your troubles. What Paul really says is, “Always be filled with joy in the Lord” (Philippians 4:4–6, ERV).

Do you have many troubles in life? Paul says to think about God, His love, and His dying on the cross for us. Then we will find joy in Jesus. He will give us peace.

The words of Paul in Philippians fill our hearts with rest, peace, and hope for something beyond this life.

Paul says: “Don’t worry about anything” (Philippians 4:6, ERV)? What if you followed this advice? For sure, this advice is hard to follow at times! Paul himself had plenty of worries. But we know we serve a loving God who is in control and will save us into His kingdom. So, we can trust God to help us with the things we are worried about.

The Bible tells us that the Lord is always close to us. Even when we die. When we close our eyes in death, then the next thing we will see is Jesus coming in the clouds.

Yes, life is full of suffering, troubles, and hard times. No one escapes from these things. Just look at the life of Paul. He did not escape from troubles (read 2 Corinthians 11). Paul wants us to understand that we can find joy in the Lord, even if we have hard times.

`Read Philippians 4:4–6 again. In what ways do these verses give you hope right now in whatever hard times or troubles you have?`