---
title:  Further Thought
date:  24/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“We all want God to answer our prayers right away. We often lose hope when the answers do not come fast enough or come in a way we do not expect. But God is too wise and good to answer our prayers always at just the time we want and in the way we want. God will do more and better for us than to give us everything we wish for. We can trust the wisdom and love of God. So, we should not ask Him to do exactly what we want. We should try to do what the Lord wants. We must put His plan first in our lives. Then we will put His plan ahead of our own wishes.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers, page 219, adapted.

“In a little while, Jesus will come to save His children. Then He will give them everlasting life. . . . The graves will open. The dead will wake up and walk out of their graves. They will give a shout of joy, saying, ‘Death, where is your victory [power]? Death, where is your power to hurt?’ [1 Corinthians 15:55, ERV]. Our loved ones who sleep in Jesus will come back to life in new bodies that will never grow old or die.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, page 350, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about the worldwide war between God and Satan. How is this war fought on the earth today? This war is very real, right? We know this war is more real than many people think. But most people today do not even believe in a real devil. How does our understanding about the worldwide war between God and Satan help us understand why things are so bad on this earth? Why does our understanding about this war comfort our hearts?`

`We can run into trouble with special messages in the Bible about the future if we try to make these verses say more than they really mean. How often have Christians gotten into trouble for saying what will happen in the future? What happens when the thing they promise does not happen? How can we protect ourselves from falling into this trap?`

`In class, read Revelation 14:9–11. In these verses, the people who worship the wild sea animal and its false god will not have any rest. What does that mean that they have no rest?`

`A “hot” topic in the church today is what part we have in causing the Second Coming to happen sooner. Whatever you believe, why is it important that we continue to share the news that Jesus is coming back soon?`