---
title:  The Iniquity of the Amorite
date:  07/10/2021
---

In Deuteronomy 2 and 3, Moses continues to recount Israelite history and how, with God’s blessing, they routed their enemies; when they were faithful, God gave them the victory, even over “giants” (Deut. 2:11, 20; Deut. 3:13).

Of course, this brings up the difficult topic, which we must at least touch on, regarding the destruction of these people. Though the children of Israel would often speak peace first to a nation (Deut. 20:10, 11), yet if the people didn’t accept that offer, sometimes the Israelites would go in and destroy them, including women and children. “ ‘And the Lord our God delivered him over to us; so we defeated him, his sons, and all his people. We took all his cities at that time, and we utterly destroyed the men, women, and little ones of every city; we left none remaining’ ” (Deut. 2:33, 34, NKJV).

Some try to get around this simply by saying that these stories are not true. However, because we believe that “all Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness” (2 Tim. 3:16, NKJV), that’s not a viable option for Seventh-day Adventists. Thus, we are left with a difficult question regarding these incidents.

`Read Genesis 15:1–16. What did God say to Abram in Genesis 15:16, and how does it shed some light on this difficult topic?`

There’s no question that many of these pagan nations were exceedingly brutal and cruel people who justifiably could have faced the wrath and punishment of God long before then. That’s true, and even if God waited patiently for them to change their ways, and they didn’t change—this still doesn’t alter the hard reality about the killing of everyone, including children. (Of course, probably many more children were killed in the Flood than were killed by the Israelites.)

The fact is that, for now, given the limited information we have about the full context of the events, we just need to accept this hard reality and trust in the goodness of God, which has been revealed in so many other ways. Faith isn’t just about loving God on a beautiful day in a pretty forest full of wonderful sights and sounds. It’s also about trusting in Him despite what we don’t fully understand.

`Read 1 Corinthians 10:1–4 and John 14:9. How do these verses, and many others like them, help us learn to trust in the love, justice, and goodness of God, even when we see things that seem hard to square with this understanding of God?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[God told the Israelites] that the iniquity of the Amorites was not yet full, and their expulsion and extermination could not be justified until they had filled up the cup of their iniquity. Idolatry and sin marked their course, but the measure of their guilt was not such that they could be devoted to destruction. In His love and pity God would let light shine upon them in more distinct rays; He would give them opportunity to behold the working of His wondrous power, that there might be no excuse for their course of evil. It is thus that God deals with the nations. Through a certain period of probation He exercises long-suffering toward nations, cities, and individuals. But when it is evident that they will not come unto Him that they might have life, judgments are visited upon them. The time came when judgment was inflicted upon the Amorites, and the time will come when all the transgressors of His law will know that God will by no means clear the guilty.—_The Review and Herald_, May 2, 1893.

The Lord is regarded as cruel by many in requiring His people to make war with other nations. They say that it is contrary to His benevo­lent character. But He who made the world, and formed man to dwell upon the earth, has unlimited control over all the works of His hands, and it is His right to do as He pleases, and what He pleases with the work of His hands. Man has no right to say to his Maker, Why doest Thou thus? There is no injustice in His character. He is the Ruler of the world, and a large portion of His subjects have rebelled against His authority, and have trampled upon His law. He has used His people as instruments of His wrath, to punish wicked nations, who have vexed them, and seduced them into idolatry.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary_, vol. 1, p. 1117.

[Every] follower of Christ will find opportunity to show Chris­tian kindness and love; and in so doing he will prove that he is a possessor of the religion of Jesus Christ.<br/>
This religion teaches us to exercise patience and long-suffering when brought into places where we receive treatment that is harsh and unjust. “Not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing: but contrariwise blessing; knowing that ye are thereunto called, that we should inherit a blessing” (1 Peter 3:9). When Christ was reviled, He reviled not again. His religion brings with it a meek and quiet spirit.<br/>
There is constant need of patience, gentleness, self-denial, and self-sacrifice in the exercise of Bible religion. But if the word of God is made an abiding principle in our lives, everything with which we have to do, each word, each trivial act, will reveal that we are subject to Jesus Christ. . . . If the word of God is received into the heart, it will empty the soul of self-sufficiency and self-dependence. Our lives will be a power for good, because the Holy Spirit will fill our minds with the things of God.—_God’s Amazing Grace_, p. 248.