---
title:  Only The Lord 
date:  29/11/2020
---

Nature shows us proof for God’s power. We have heard this Bible truth so often that we no longer think about how wonderful it is. Think about God’s love for us. He made this earth because He loved us. When we remember this, we may understand better how to teach the arts and sciences.

As an example of God’s power, think about a human baby growing inside its mother’s body. Science teaches us that human life happens when one egg grows and becomes a baby after nine months. We see God’s love in this whole miracle. The baby grows right below the mother’s heart. As the baby gets bigger, the mother’s belly gets bigger too right in front of her body. She always sees the baby that will soon be born. In the same way, God’s eyes are always on His children.

`Read Romans 1:18–21; Psalm 19:1–6; and Nehemiah 9:6. What do they tell us about God’s work as the One who made us?`

God made this earth 6,000 years ago. Many thousands of years have gone by since the Flood. Even so, there is powerful proof on this earth that God is the One who made us. This proof shows us God’s mighty power and how much He loves us too. This proof is so powerful that Paul in Romans 1:18–21 says that those who turn away from this God will have no excuse for their choice on the day that God judges the earth. Why? Because Paul says there is enough proof on this earth to teach us about God. We can learn about Him from what He has made.

We live in a time when people worship the things that God made, and not God Himself. So, it is important that Christian education in the arts and sciences always teaches that God is the One who made us. Christian education also must teach that God keeps everything going too. In the end, any teaching or ideas that do not include God or say that He is not real lead only to wrong thinking. Most education on this earth teaches that there is no God. Christian education must not fall into that trap.

`Think about all the wonderful beauty on this earth, even after sin. How can we find hope and comfort in this beauty? How will that hope help us during difficult times?`