---
title:  Beauty That Is Holy 
date:  30/11/2020
---

`Psalm 96:9 says, “Worship the LORD in all his holy beauty. Everyone on earth should tremble before him” (ERV). How do we understand this idea: “holy beauty”? What should this idea mean to a Christian? What part should this idea have in our teaching about art and beauty?`

There is a famous saying: “Beauty is in the eye of the one who sees.” In other words, people have different ideas about beauty. What one person’s eyes see as beautiful another person’s eyes may see as ugly. Of course, we must remember who made the eyes to begin with (read Proverbs 20:12). God loves beauty. Nature shows us that God is the One who made beauty. We can learn about God from nature. Of course, we must be careful not to worship nature itself. True, our earth is spoiled by sin. Even so, it continues to be beautiful. Who can make a picture in his mind about how beautiful this earth must have looked before the Fall?

We are a part of God’s own artwork too. So, it makes sense that the study of the arts and sciences should bring us closer to God’s heart.

“God wants His children to love His works and take joy in the simple beauty of this earth. God loves beauty. He loves beauty of spirit even more. He wants to clean our hearts. He wants us to lead simple lives. He wants us to be as beautiful as flowers.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 85, adapted.

`Read Genesis 3:6. Then read Proverbs 6:25 and Proverbs 31:30. How do these verses teach us that just because something is beautiful, it doesn’t make it good or holy?`

We have an enemy who tries to spoil and destroy every good thing God does or makes. So, we shouldn’t be surprised that Satan can cause people to think wrong ideas about beauty or use beauty in the wrong way. So, Christian arts and science teachers need to be careful. They must let the Bible be their guide. The Bible will help them understand that all that is beautiful is not always good or holy.

`What are some “beautiful” things that are not holy or good? What beautiful things can be made bad? What helps us to know the answers to these questions?`