---
title:  Experts In False Teachings 
date:  01/12/2020
---

We know that a lot of art, wisdom, and learning on this earth does not honor God. Many Christians may say that Christians should not study these topics. Seventh-day Adventist Christians must carefully think about how they will earn their living, where they shop, and what they watch and read.

`In 1 Timothy 6, Paul gives us advice about things we should not do. But Paul also gives us a clear explanation about why we should not do these things. In verses 9 and 10, what things does Paul warning against doing?`

`Finish reading 1 Timothy 6. What does Paul say that Christians may do?`

Do you see in 1 Timothy 6:20, ERV, how Paul warns against “ ‘knowledge’ that is not knowledge at all.” Of course, Paul is not talking about education. But what he says about knowledge is an important rule for teaching and learning. Think about all the wrong information, teaching, and beliefs that were taught from the start of history until now. These wrong ideas show us that people can be “experts” in false teaching.

For nearly 2,000 years, the smartest people on this earth believed that the earth sat at the center of all the stars and planets in outer space. They believed the earth did not move. But they thought that all the stars and planets moved in perfect circles. People used some very difficult math and science to prove this belief. In the end, this belief turned out to be wrong. So, we can say that these people were experts in false teaching. This is the false teaching that Paul talks about when he says “ ‘knowledge’ that is not knowledge at all.”

`Science today is built on the false idea that life started a very long time ago. Life started by chance. God had nothing to do with it. They say there is no reason for life too. Many people have written articles about this teaching. What does this show us about how people can be experts in false teaching? How should our understanding about this help Christian education and the study of science in our schools?`