---
title:  Foolishness And Wisdom 
date:  02/12/2020
---

`Read Proverbs 1. What does this chapter teach us that Christian education should be about?`

The Bible compares foolishness and wisdom. The book of Proverbs helps us remember the dangers of foolish behavior and being friends with fools. The Bible is clear: God wants His people to seek wisdom.

Students of the arts and sciences use their skills and talents to get knowledge. They try to do excellent work in their studies. Teachers in the arts and sciences do the same. We can make beautiful art and come up with surprising inventions in science because of knowledge and the natural talent God gives us.

But what does a knowledge about the arts and sciences really mean if it does not teach us about knowing right from wrong, good from evil, and truth from lies? Just because a person is a wonderful artist with a lot of talent doesn’t mean that this person is holy or good. All you have to do to see that is to read a bit about the lives of the most famous artists who ever lived. One can also say, too, that the scientists who make weapons that can destroy life are super smart and educated. But what about their work?

As we said before, knowledge, by itself, is not always a good thing.

`Read Proverbs 1:7. What does all true Christian education start with?`

`A man who does not believe in God also won the Nobel Prize. He studies outer space and the forces that cause it to work. This man wrote: “The more we seem to understand space, the more it makes no sense.” What should this man’s view tell us about how knowledge, without God, can have no meaning and lead people into false thinking?`