---
title:  The Lord Answered Job 
date:  03/12/2020
---

`Read Job 38. What does this chapter teach us about God as the One who made us and gives us life? How should this important Bible truth change how we understand the arts and sciences?`

“Many people teach that objects have life-giving power. They believe that these objects have a force or energy. These objects continue their life by their own power. People also believe that everything that happens in nature is because of laws that nature must follow. God Himself cannot change these laws. This is false science. The Bible does not support these ideas at all. Nature is the servant of the One who made nature. . . . Nature shows us the intelligent mind and energy of God who works in and by the laws in nature. God and His Son work in nature all the time. Jesus says, ‘ “My Father never stops working, and so I work too.’ John 5:17 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 114, adapted.

Sadly, as we said earlier, so much of science teaches that there is no God. This means that a scientist can study something very beautiful and difficult to understand. But he or she will say that this object is here on this earth because of chance. God had nothing to do with why it is here. And there is no meaning to its beauty or reason for its life.

This false thinking is what most science teaches all the time. Life on earth, from butterflies to humans, happened because chemicals became simple life by accident a long time ago. Over time, that simple life then changed into all that lives and moves and breathes on this earth today. This teaching is named evolution.

Evolution today teaches that the very idea that there is a God who made the earth is not “scientific.” Science cannot study the idea of God because there is no scientific “test” to prove God is real. So, science throws out the idea of God. Science itself does not teach this idea that God should be thrown out. Scientists do. Science teaches that all the beauty on the earth shows us proof of a God.

The problem is that the Bible teaches something different. God made everything. He gives life to everything and keeps it going too. So, teachers in Christian education must go against the popular ideas that science teaches today. They must teach Bible truth.