---
title:  Further Thought
date:  04/12/2020
---

Two reasons show why science is wrong about the explanation for how life started on earth. First, science studies nature and its laws. So, it must look only to nature and its laws for answers. Second, science says that the laws of nature must stay the same. But both these ideas are wrong when it comes to an explanation for how life started on earth.

Let’s look at the first reason. This reason says that there is a natural cause for everything that happens in nature. That’s a fine explanation for understanding a hurricane. But it doesn’t help us understand Genesis 1:1 “In the beginning God made from nothing the heavens and the earth” (Genesis 1:1, NLV). Science says God had nothing to do with why life started. So, how can science teach us about life that started with a miracle from God?

And the second reason? This makes sense until we read Romans 5:12, ERV: “Sin came into the world because of what one man did. And with sin came death. So this is why all people must die—because all people have sinned.” This verse teaches us the idea that at one time there was no death on this earth. This teaching goes against everything that science teaches us today. It is wrong to think that the Bible teaching about how life started and modern science are the same in any way. To make this mistake will lead us away from Bible truth and into false ideas.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In class, talk about the idea of beauty. What is beauty? How do you know what it is? How will a Christian’s understanding about beauty be different from a non-Christian’s understanding?`

`What if Jesus came as a very smart scientist to this earth when He came the first time? Or what if He came as a very talented musician? But He didn’t, did He? He came and trained as a carpenter. Jesus was there at the start of this earth. But when He came here He learned how to work with tools and wood, He did His work as an obedient student. What encouragement does this give us as students and workers?`

`God does not ask every Christian to teach in schools. Many Christians teach by sharing Jesus with people. Or they show Him in their everyday lives by their works and behavior. What habits should the Christian have, as a student of Jesus and as a teacher to the people on this earth?`