---
title:  Worshiping the Lord
date:  30/11/2019
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Neh. 12:27–47; 1 Chron. 25:6–8; 1 John 1:7–9; John 1:29, 36; 1 Cor. 5:7; Heb. 9:1–11.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “And they sang responsively, praising and giving thanks to the Lord: ‘For He is good, for His mercy endures forever toward Israel’ ” (Ezra 3:11, NKJV).

This week’s memory text gives us insight into the Hebrews’ worship practices and how their gratitude toward God had overflowed in praise to Him. In 515 b.c. they celebrated the dedication of the new temple (Ezra 6:15–18), and then, about 60 years later, the people celebrated the dedication of Jerusalem’s completed wall (Neh. 6:15–7:3; 12:27 onward).

Following the listing of genealogies in Nehemiah 11 and 12, the author transitions to the time they celebrated the dedication of the city wall. It was customary for the nation to dedicate things to God: the temple, a city wall, or even houses and public buildings. Such a dedication was thoughtfully prepared and was accompanied with singing, music, feasting, sacrifices, rejoicing, merriment, and the purification of the people. David established the practice of sacrifices during a dedication, and afterward Israel’s leaders followed his example, starting with Solomon when he brought the ark into the temple (1 Kings 8:5).

This week we will look at how they worshiped the Lord during this time and see things that we, who worship the same Lord, can apply to ourselves.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, December 7._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

This praise and thanksgiving, we have no need to say, was entirely appropriate. The house upon which their eyes rested was of sufficient consequence for the Lord to send His word again and again to encourage the builders. The Lord gives His servants words to speak; and this gratitude all should have . . . expressed when they saw that the foundation of the house . . . was laid.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 3, p. 1133.

The workmen engaged in the preparation of the building material, found among the ruins some of the immense stones brought to the temple site in the days of Solomon. These were made ready for use, and much new material was provided; and soon the work was advanced to the point where the foundation stone must be laid. This was done in the presence of many thousands who had assembled to witness the progress of the work and to give expression to their joy in having a part in it. While the cornerstone was being set in position, the people, accompanied by the trumpets of the priests and the cymbals of the sons of Asaph, “sang together by course in praising and giving thanks unto the Lord; because He is good, for His mercy endureth forever toward Israel.”—_Prophets and Kings_, p. 563. 

After the temple was finished, Solomon assembled all Israel, and many nations also came to witness the dedication of the house of God. It was dedicated with great splendor. Solomon addresses the people, and seeks to tear away from the minds of all present the superstitions which have clouded the minds of heathen nations in regard to Jehovah. He tells them that God is not like the heathen gods, who are confined to temples built for them, but the God of Israel would meet them by his Spirit when the people should assemble in that house dedicated to his worship. 

Solomon kneels before God in the presence of that immense congregation and makes supplication to God. . . .  

“Now, when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven, and consumed the burnt-offering and the sacrifices: and the glory of the Lord filled the house. And the priests could not enter into the house of the Lord, because the glory of the Lord had filled the Lord’s house. And when all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down, and the glory of the Lord upon the house, they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement, and worshiped, and praised the Lord, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth forever.”—_Spiritual Gifts_, vol. 4a, pp. 98, 99.