---
title:  God’s Plan for the Good News
date:   29/07/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 3; Romans 11:33–36; Romans 16:25–27; Philippians 4:20; 2 Peter 3:18.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “God can do much more than we ask him to do, or we even [also] think of [about]. He does it by his power [strength] which is working in us. So, praise him in the church meeting in Christ Jesus. Praise him for ever and ever! May it be so!” (Ephesians 3:20, 21, WE).

PAUL begins Ephesians 3 with an idea that he talked about earlier: God’s plan for the Good News. Paul tells his readers that God kept this plan secret until now. “This is God’s plan. Those [church members] who are not Jews will also share in the blessings of [from] God. They [non-Jews] also are a part of the body [church] of Jesus Christ. They also will receive [get] the things God has promised in Jesus Christ through [because of] the good news” (Ephesians 3:6, WE).

Next, Paul talks about how much he loves to preach to the non-Jews. Paul loves telling them about Jesus so much! We learn about the hard times that Paul suffers, too. Paul is sent to prison because he preaches to the non-Jews.

We also learn about Paul’s love for the Good News. The Good News teaches that Jewish church members and non-Jewish church members are the same in God’s eyes. God loves both Jews and non-Jews the same. Paul is excited about this Bible truth and about his work for God. This week, we will read and study Paul’s prayers for the church and his praise for God. Paul helps us feel excited to do God’s work, too!