---
title:  Paul, a Prisoner for Jesus
date:   30/07/2023
---

`Read Ephesians 3. What are the most important ideas in this chapter?`

Paul writes Ephesians 3 in an interesting form. First, Paul starts the chapter with these words: “So I, Paul, am a prisoner of [who belongs to] Christ Jesus. I am a prisoner for you who are not Jews” (Ephesians 3:1, ICB). Then in the next verse, Paul starts to talk about a new topic. Paul tells us about his work as teacher to the non-Jews (Ephesians 3:2–13). After this topic, Paul comes back in Ephesians 3:14 to the idea he started with, in verse 1, about being a prisoner. Paul uses the words “That is why” (Ephesians 3:14, WE) to connect verse 14 back to the topic in verse 1. Then Paul gives us his prayer report.

In Ephesians 3:1, Paul says he is “a prisoner of Christ Jesus” (ICB). Wasn’t Paul arrested by the Romans? Isn’t Paul in prison? So, how can Paul be Jesus’ prisoner when he’s locked in a Roman jail? What does Paul really mean? Paul uses “prisoner” as a word picture to show that he belongs to Jesus and not to Rome. So, while Paul may be in a Roman jail, Paul’s life is really under God’s control (compare Ephesians 4:1). Paul wants us to see that he is right where God wants him to be.

Do you see in Ephesians 3:13 what Paul says about his suffering? Later in his letter, Paul talks about his chains (Ephesians 6:20, NLV). This information suggests that Paul isn’t a prisoner in a comfortable house (compare Acts 28:16). Paul is in prison. Roman prisons weren’t nice places to be during New Testament times. The Kingdom of Rome didn’t have clean prisons that served good meals to its prisoners. The Kingdom of Rome didn’t need many prisons. The Roman leaders didn’t send people to prison to punish them. People were sent to prison to wait to go to court. Sometimes they waited in prison to die for a crime. Roman leaders expected prisoners to take care of their own needs. So, prisoners depended on family members and friends to bring them food and other supplies.

Paul may be worried that his readers will lose hope when they learn he is in prison. They may ask, “How can Paul really be a teacher from Jesus if he is in jail?” So, Paul helps his readers understand that his being in prison is part of God’s plan. Paul suffers for them. His suffering will honor God’s name in the end (Ephesians 3:13).