---
title:  God’s Secret Plan
date:   31/07/2023
---

`What secret did God give Paul to share with church members? Read Ephesians 3:1–6 for the answer.`

Study Ephesians 3:1–6. In this part of the letter, Paul talks about five important ideas:

1\. Paul writes this part of his letter to non-Jewish Christians. These non-Jews are members of the churches in Ephesus (Ephesians 3:1).

2\. Paul says that God gave him the special job of preaching the Good News about His mercy to the non-Jews (read Ephesians 3:2; compare Ephesians 3:7, 8).

3\. Paul says that God showed him a mystery. Paul already wrote about this topic in his letter to the Ephesians (read Ephesians 1:9, 10; Ephesians 2:11–22). This mystery is the Good News about Jesus (Ephesians 3:3, 4). Paul wants us to understand that he didn’t invent the Good News. He is only a manager or preacher of the Good News. Again, Paul says that God gave him his special work: to preach the Good News to the non-Jews.

4\. Paul isn’t the only one who knows about God’s secret. The Holy Spirit also explained the mystery to Jesus’ other teachers and special messengers during New Testament times. The Spirit’s explanation to teachers and messengers in New Testament times is better than the explanation given to God’s servants in Old Testament times. God’s plan was a secret in the past. Now, God explains His secret to His servants during New Testament times.

5\. Paul announces, “This is God’s plan. Those [church members] who are not Jews will also share in the blessings of [from] God. They [non-Jews] also are a part of the body [church] of Jesus Christ. They also will receive [get] the things God has promised in Jesus Christ through [because of] the good news” (Ephesians 3:6, WE).

Paul loves sharing the Good News about Jesus with Jews and non-Jews. These two groups become God’s new church. More than that, they show God’s plan for everyone on earth (read Ephesians 2:14–16). God changes enemies into friends. Together, they get from God the blessings He promised in the Good News (read Ephesians 3:6).