---
title:  How the Church Shows God’s Wisdom
date:   01/08/2023
---

`What does Paul say about God and the things God does? Read Ephesians 3:7–13 for the answer.`

Paul announces that God in His mercy made him a preacher (Ephesians 3:7; compare Ephesians 3:1, 2). God doesn’t give this gift to Paul because Paul is special. God makes Paul a preacher because God is filled with mercy. Paul helps us understand this Bible truth when he says, “I am the least important of all God’s people” (Ephesians 3:8, ERV).

As we read Paul’s letters, we learn how Paul views himself. Early on, Paul announces that God gave him special work to do for the non-Jews (Galatians 1:1). Later, Paul says he isn’t worthy to be named as a teacher for Jesus (1 Corinthians 15:9). In Ephesians, as we just saw, Paul says he is “the least important of all God’s people” (Ephesians 3:8, ERV). Finally, Paul says that he is the worst sinner (1 Timothy 1:15).

This famous quote from Ellen G. White may help explain Paul’s thinking about himself: “When you come near to Jesus, you will see yourself for who you are. The nearer you get to Him, the more you will see your own sins. You will have a better understanding about yourself. You will see that your own sins are very bad compared to His holy life.”—Steps to Christ, page 64, adapted.

Paul continues. In Ephesians 3:10, he writes: “His purpose [plan] was that all the rulers [leaders] and powers [the top angels] in the heavenly [in heaven] places will now know the many different ways he shows his wisdom. They will know this because of the church” (Ephesians 3:10, ERV). How does the church on earth show the angels in heaven that God is wise? The answer is the church shows God’s wisdom when its members are in peace and agreement with each other. In the past, non-Jews and Jews were enemies. But when they accepted Jesus and joined the church, a miracle happened. Jesus joined people together who were enemies in the past. Now they are at peace. Their peace shows Satan and his angels that God’s plan is happening. A loving church shows Satan and his angels that their end is near.

`In Ephesians 3:10, Paul tells us the church’s job. How will following what Paul says change us and the church?`