---
title:  Let Jesus Live in Your Heart
date:   02/08/2023
---

`Compare Paul’s prayer in Ephesians 1:16–19 with his prayer for Christians in Ephesians 3:14–19. What does Paul ask for in each prayer? How are the two prayers the same?`

Paul tells us, “From the Father every family in heaven and on earth gets its name” (Ephesians 3:15, NIrV). In the Greek language, the words “Father” and “family” are connected. The Greek word for “Father” is “patēr.” The Greek word for “family” is “patria.” These two words in the Greek language are much the same. Paul wants us to understand that God’s saving plan (Ephesians 1:9, 10) is for all time and for all people. Every family in heaven and on earth belongs to the Father. This news is very good! Think about this Bible truth: your family belongs to God. Sure, your family may make mistakes and not be perfect. But God loves your family anyway. Your family has His name.

In Ephesians 3:16–19, Paul asks God to give Christians a strong spiritual experience. Paul asks God to give His Spirit to His people to help make them strong (Ephesians 3:16). Paul also asks for Jesus to live in the hearts of Christians by faith (Ephesians 3:17). Then they will be strong in God’s love.

Paul praises God for the blessings He offers to Christians. Paul says to his readers, “May you have power [strength] together with all the Lord’s holy people to understand Christ’s love. May you know how wide and long and high and deep it is” (Ephesians 3:18, NIrV). Why do you think Paul uses the words “wide,” “long,” “high,” and “deep”? Paul uses these four words to tell us that God’s love for us is very big. This information is more good news for us, too.