---
title:  Paul’s Poem Of Praise
date:   03/08/2023
---

`Paul ends his prayer report with a short poem that praises God. What things does Paul praise God for? Read Ephesians 3:20, 21 to answer the question.`

Paul shared with us a list of things he prayed for (Ephesians 3:14–19). Now Paul prays a powerful prayer for the church. His prayer ends with a short poem that praises God (Ephesians 3:20, 21). At the end of this poem, Paul says, “So, praise him [God] in the church meeting in [with the spirit and mind of] Christ Jesus” (Ephesians 3:21, WE). Yesterday, we saw that Jesus lives in the hearts of His followers (Ephesians 3:17). So, Jesus is the Savior of the church. In Paul’s short poem, he praises God for His saving love. God offers this love to us because of Jesus.

Look at the words “Give him [Jesus] glory [praise and honor] through [for] all time and for ever and ever” (Ephesians 3:21, NIrV). This verse shows us that Paul expects a wonderful future for Christians. In Ephesians 4:30, Paul is excited about the day when “God will make you free” from sin and death at the Second Coming (ICB). Paul’s poem celebrates Jesus’ strength. This strength has no limits or end. Jesus uses His never ending strength to help us win the fight against sin.

Review Paul’s second prayer report (Ephesians 3:14–21; compare with Paul’s first prayer report, in Ephesians 1:15–23). In the second report, Paul talks about the things he is thankful for. Paul says God the Father’s care for him makes him strong (Ephesians 3:14, 15). Paul says the Holy Spirit is ready to help Jesus’ followers, too (Ephesians 3:16). We also are partners with Jesus Himself (Ephesians 3:17), who loves us. Jesus’ love has no limits (Ephesians 3:18, 19). Paul prays that Christians “will be filled with everything God has for you” (Ephesians 3:19, NIrV). God will fill His followers with Himself. Paul is so thankful for all God’s precious gifts. Paul is surprised that God offers us so many wonderful gifts (Ephesians 3:20, 21).

Whenever you have problems, read Paul’s reports about his prayers. Paul’s reports help you remember God’s plan and His mercy. We are part of God’s big plan to save humans (Ephesians 1:9, 10). For sure, God’s love is at work in us.

`What blessing from God are you most thankful for? Write a prayer of praise that thanks God for this gift.`