---
title:  Additional thought
date:   04/08/2023
---

Ellen G. White, “Modern Revivals,” in The Great Controversy, pages 461–478.

Read this quote from Ellen G. White on Ephesians 3:14–19: “These verses promise us that God will give us knowledge. God wants us to know Him in a powerful way. So, why do we have a weak experience? We have every spiritual blessing in this life to understand God’s mercy. So, why don’t we grow in spiritual strength? Paul didn’t write Ephesians 3:14–19 to lie to us or trick us. Paul isn’t trying to give us false hope. Paul wrote these words to show us what we may become. We must become what God wants us to be if we wish to be citizens of His kingdom. How can we work together with God if we have a weak spiritual experience? We know the things that God offers to us Christians. So, we should try hard to understand the things that God wants us to know.

“Do we really believe the Bible? Do we really believe that we may get the knowledge about God that Paul promises us in Ephesians 3:14–19? Do we believe every word that God says? Do we believe the words that God’s special messengers and teachers say? Do we believe the words that Jesus says? All knowledge and blessings come from Jesus. He gives us every rich gift we have. So, do we really believe in God and in His Son?”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, October 1, 1889, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Compare Paul’s praise poem in Ephesians 3:20, 21 to other praise poems in the New Testament. (Examples of other praise poems include Romans 11:33–36; Romans 16:25–27; Philippians 4:20; 2 Peter 3:18; Jude 1:24, 25.) What ideas are in these praise poems? How can we praise God and worship Him in the way these praise poems show us?`

`Paul says we “can be filled with everything God has for you” (Ephesians 3:19, ERV). Four different times in Ephesians, Paul talks about being filled with everything God has for us. Why do you think this idea is so important to Paul?`

`In Ephesians 3, Paul praises the many things that God does. Which thing that God does do you like best?`