---
title:  Taking Care of the Gifts God Gives Us
date:   03/03/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Colossians 1:16– 18; Hebrews 4:14–16; 3 John 3; Genesis 6:13–18; Revelation 14:6–12. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “God chose us to live pure [sin-free] lives. He wants us to be holy” (1 Thessalonians 4:7, NIrV). 

GOD CHOSE US to look after the things He put in our care.This work includes more than just taking care of the things we own and managing our money. It is easy for us to misunderstand what being a good manager means. We cannot be Christians without being good managers.The church would not be able to run smoothly without our working together to take good care of everything God gives us. 

“Taking good care of everything God gives us is not just an idea or a teaching. Instead, it is love in action. Being a good manager is also a choice you make. This choice includes our agreeing to work together with God and others to take care of God’s gifts. Every part of our lives will be changed by our choice to be good managers.”—LeRoy E. Froom, Stewardship [Taking care of everything God gives us] in Its Larger [More important] Aspects [Different views or ways of looking at the topic] (Mountain View: CA, Pacific Press® Publishing Association, 1929), page 5, adapted. 

What are some of the most important teachings about being a good manager?This week we will answer this question.Also, we will use an interesting word picture to help us understand how being a good manager is important to the Christian experience. And the word picture we will use is a wheel. 