---
title:  Jesus is the reason for everything we do
date:   04/03/2018
---

God gave us the whole Bible to show us Jesus (John 5:39). We are Jesus’ followers. So, we need to understand who Jesus is and what He did for us. He paid for our sins on the cross. He “ ‘came to give his life to save many people’ ” (Mark 10:45, ICB). Jesus has all power in heaven and earth (Matthew 28:18). All things are under His control (John 13:3). Jesus’ name is far above the name of anyone else. And one day, everyone will kneel down to worship Jesus (Philippians 2:9–11). 

Ellen G. White tells us, “Jesus is alive. He is the reason for everything we do.”—Evangelism [Spreading the Good News about Jesus everywhere], page 186, adapted. 

Jesus is the reason for everything we do to be wise managers. Our power comes from Him. Jesus is the reason our lives are worth living. Our lives need to show to everyone that Jesus has first place in our hearts. Paul understood this truth. He experienced many problems in life. But he always remembered his reason for living: “To me the only important thing about living is Christ [Jesus]” (Philippians 1:21, ICB). 

`Read Colossians 1:16–18; Romans 8:21; and 2 Corinthians 5:17. How do these verses show us that we must give Jesus first place in everything we do?` 

We will not be good managers of the gifts God gives us until we put Jesus first in our lives (Galatians 2:20). After all, Jesus is the reason for our belief in “the great hope and the coming of our great God” (Titus 2:13, NLV). And “Christ [Jesus] was there before anything was made. And all things continue because of him” (Colossians 1:17, ICB). Here is where the word picture of the wheel can help explain just how important Jesus is to our lives.At the center of the wheel is the axle.The axle is a bar. A wheel is locked to both ends of this bar. The axle bar carries the whole weight of the wagon. And the axle allows the wheels to turn. In the same way, Jesus is the “axle” at the center of our lives. He gives us the same solid support an axle gives to the wagon wheels. He is the solid and lasting center of our lives (Hebrews 13:8). That is why Jesus says, “ ‘You can do nothing without Me’ ” (John 15:5, NLV). 

`How can you be sure Jesus is the center of your life?`