---
title:  What is Jesus doing for us right now?
date:   05/03/2018
---

Did you know that the work Jesus does for us in heaven is connected to our work as good managers? The work that Jesus does right now for us in heaven also is very important to what we believe. Our work as managers is a part of what we believe too. So, Jesus’ work in heaven and our work as managers are connected. “Our faith begins with understanding the work Jesus is doing right now for us in heaven.”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism [Spreading the Good News about Jesus], page 221, adapted. So, we see that it is very important to understand how our work as managers fits in with what Jesus does for us in heaven. Let us go back to the word picture of the wheel to help us understand. But this time we are going to see in our minds the wheel of a chariot.A chariot is a carriage with two wheels. Chariots were pulled by horses. People stood in chariots and used chariots in races and wars in Bible times. The Bible talks about a chariot wheel in 1 Kings 7:33. 

Now, let us imagine that the center part of the chariot wheel is a word picture that explains the work Jesus does in heaven right now. This center part of the wheel is locked to the axle. We learned yesterday that the two wheels turn around the axle. The axle makes the wheel stay on the chariot. The axle also makes the chariot safe. Jesus’ death (2 Timothy 1:10) gives us the same support the axle gives the chariot. His death for us makes Him safe enough to trust in (Hebrews 6:19, 20). 

`Read 1 John 2:1; Hebrews 4:14–16; and Revelation 14:7. What do these verses tell us about Jesus’ work for us right now in heaven?` 

Jesus’ work for us right now in heaven helps us understand the truth of God’s plan to save us from sin and His promise to make us new again. Jesus now works for us in the Most Holy Place in God’s temple in heaven. In the Most Holy Place, we see God’s law and the work God does as our Judge. In God’s law and in His work for us as our Judge, we see God’s promise to save us by the blood of Jesus. Our work as managers must point people to this wonderful truth of God’s plan to save us. 

`Read Hebrews 4:14–16. What hope do we get from knowing that Jesus works in heaven for us right now?`