---
title:  Jesus is the center of our beliefs
date:   06/03/2018
---

What Jesus is doing for us in heaven right now is very important. Jesus’ work in heaven shows us the reason for His death on the cross. Jesus’ work also shows us the wonderful truth of God’s plan to save us from sin and give us everlasting life. So, we must connect all our Bible teachings to the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin. This important truth is the same as the center of a wheel. All our other teachings and beliefs come out of this truth in the same way that spokes or rods come out of the center of the wheel to the rim. The rim is the edge of the wheel. 

“Jesus died on the cross to pay the price for our sins.This truth is the center of all we believe. All other truths come out of this truth. . . . We must study the Savior’s wonderful gift of dying for us on the cross. Then we will grow in God’s loving-favor and in knowledge.”—Ellen G. White Comments [Thoughts], The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 5, page 1137, adapted. 

`What did Jesus mean when He said He was “ ‘the Truth’ ” (John 14:6, NLV)? What does Jesus say about the truth in John 17:17? What does Jesus say about the truth that is the same in both verses? Now read 3 John 3. What does John say we must do with the truth?` 

Our teachings change who we are and how we live our lives. That is because teachings are not just ideas. All true teaching is set on the truth about Jesus. Who we are as Seventh-day Adventists comes from what we believe. Our teachings come from the Bible. They make us who we are. 

We work for God as managers of His gifts to us. Our work as God’s managers includes following Bible truth. We must follow the Bible to make our lives better. Paul tells us to get rid of “the old person you used to be. Have nothing to do with your old sinful [full of sin] life. It was sinful because of [your] being fooled into following bad desires. Let your minds and hearts be made new. You must become a new person and be godlike [holy in how you think and act]. Then you will be made right with God and have a true holy life” (Ephesians 4:21–24, NLV). 

This verse in Ephesians shows us what it means to know the truth and to follow it. Being a good manager is not only about believing the correct teachings. We must follow the truth and teach other people to follow it too. 