---
title:  The three Angels’ messages
date:   07/03/2018
---

How many times in the Bible did God warn people that life on this earth would end? Only two times. The first time, God warned Noah (Genesis 6:13–18; Matthew 24:37). The second time, God warned us through the three angels’ messages (Revelation 14:6–12). These messages show us what will happen in the future. We understand more about these messages now than we understood in the past. But the truth of the messages has stayed the same. That truth is the teaching that we are made right with God by faith in Jesus. This teaching about being made right with God by believing in Jesus is “the truth of the third angel’s message.”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism [Spreading the Good News about Jesus], page 190, adapted. So, God gave us this message to share with all the people on this earth. Jesus and His death for us on the cross are at the center of this message. 

`Read Revelation 14:6–12. What is the most important idea we get from the messages in these verses?What are these messages saying to all the people on the earth? What is God telling us to do with these messages? What does it mean to be good managers of the truth found in these messages?` 

God commands Seventh-day Adventists to share the truth of the three angels’ messages with people everywhere. This truth will help everyone who believes it to get ready for the Second Coming of Jesus. After all, people must make a choice about everlasting life. So, good managers work together with God to share His truth with other people (2 Corinthians 5:20; 2 Corinthians 6:1–4). 

“God chose Seventh-day Adventists to protect the truth and to share it with people everywhere. God gave Seventh-day Adventists the last warning for a dying planet.Wonderful truth from the Bible is shining on the minds of Seventh-day Adventists. God gave them a very important work to do for Him. Seventh-day Adventists must share the three angels’ messages with people everywhere. No other work is more important than this work. So, Seventh-day Adventists must not allow anything else to take their attention away from doing this work.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 9, page 19, adapted. 

We must share this great truth with everyone.