---
title:  Taking care of everything God gives us
date:   08/03/2018
---

Jesus wants us to live holy lives. Jesus’ life shows us what living a holy life means. His life also shows us what it means to work as a good manager of God’s gifts (Hebrews 9:14). We should live our lives to make God happy. We make God happy when we take care of everything He gives us. Then we show what it means to live a holy life. 

`Read 1 Peter 1:15, 16 and Hebrews 12:14. What truth do these verses teach us that is the same? What do “be holy” (1 Peter 1:15, NLV) and “live a holy life” (Hebrews 12:14, NLV) mean? What do these ideas have to do with working as good managers of God’s gifts?` 

Let us go back to our word picture of a wheel again. We will use it to help us understand what it means to act as a good manager. The Romans learned that a wheel lasted longer if a thin strip of iron was put around the rim. The rim is the edge of the wheel. The maker of the wheel heated the iron strip to make it just big enough to fit over the rim.Then the wheel was dipped in cold water. The cold water helped shrink the iron strip tight around the wheel.The wheel was put on the chariot. You will remember that a chariot was a special carriage pulled by horses. It was used in races and wars. The strip of iron around the wheel touched the road when the wheel turned. 

The iron strip around the wheel is a word picture that helps us understand how to do our work as good managers for God.Taking care of everything God gives us is the same as the iron strip on the wheel. In the same way, our work as managers is the “outer covering” of our lives that everyone sees. People notice how we take care of everything God gives us. They see we live to make God happy. What we do and say each day touches the lives of other people in the same way as the iron on the wheel touches the road. 

What we do has a lot of power. People remember what we do. So, our actions must be under Jesus’ control. We must trust God to help us live our lives under His control. The Bible promises us: “[We] can do all things because Christ [Jesus] gives [us] the strength” (Philippians 4:13, NLV). 

`How does your life show Jesus to other people? How can you let more of Jesus’ holy life show in your life?`