---
title:  Additional thought
date:   09/03/2018
---

What do you think happened over time to the wheels of a chariot? A chariot was a special carriage used in Bible times. It was pulled by horses and used in races and wars. The wheels of the chariot became old when the chariot was used a lot. The iron strip on the wheel would stretch and fall off the rim. Then the iron strip would need to be hammered and fixed.The strip would need to be put back on the wheel again. 

Putting the iron strip back on the wheel is a word picture. It helps us understand how Jesus must hammer out the sin from our lives and fit us back in His plan when we fall away from that plan. Making us fit again in His plan is how He makes us holy. Being put back into God’s plan can feel hard and painful to us at times. That is because God is changing us. This change can include how we use our money, how kind we are to people, and how we do our jobs. 

It is not easy to fit iron back on the rim of a wheel after it has fallen off. It is not always easy for us to change either. Think about Peter. Peter went everywhere with Jesus. But Peter did not ever think Jesus would say these words to him: “ ‘I have prayed that you will not lose your faith! Help your brothers be stronger when you come back to me’ ” (Luke 22:32, ICB). A short time later, Peter turned away from Jesus. Then Peter changed and came back to Jesus. But Peter changed only after he went through a bad experience. Then Peter could move on in a new life. And that new life was with Jesus. But this new life happened only after God “hammered” the weakness out of Peter’s life. 

**Discussion questions** 

`How is being made holy connected with Jesus’ teaching: “ ‘If anyone wants to follow me, he must say “no” to the things he wants. Every day he must be willing even to die on a cross, and he must follow me’ ” (Luke 9:23, ICB)? What does Jesus mean when He says we must be willing to die on a cross? (Read Galatians 6:14 for a hint.) How does the word picture of “dying on a cross” help explain what it means to become holy? As we see in 1 Corinthians 2:16, how does becoming holy help us to think the same as Jesus?` 

`How can our bad experiences teach us powerful lessons about the Christian life and what it means to follow the Lord?`