---
title: False Expectations
date: 13/07/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 13:44–46**

**False Expectations**

inTro

Have you ever created a picture of a person in your mind only to meet them and find out your perceived image did not fit reality? The person you thought you knew looked and acted differently from what you expected. This certainly happened more often when smartphones and social media were less common.

A few years ago, I was invited to speak at a church in a country I hadn’t been to before. The person I planned the event with sent two young people from his church to pick me up at the airport. They had never seen me and didn’t know me at all. They had only heard I was a missionary. Thinking they could spot a missionary any day, they thought they needed no further instructions. Well, I didn’t quite match their perceived image of me. I don’t know exactly what they were looking for, but I didn’t wear sandals nor did I have a long beard. After quite a long wait at the airport, I saw two young people glancing at me a few times. I approached them and introduced myself. The first thing they said was, “You don’t look like a missionary!” We had a good laugh.

The entire scene reminded me how easy it is to have false expectations of others. On a more serious note, this is exactly what happened when Jesus came to earth. People thought they knew what the Messiah would look like and what He would do. Jesus of Nazareth did not fit their perceived image. They were looking for a military figure who could free them from the Romans and establish an earthly kingdom. Instead, Jesus taught about a different kind of kingdom—a heavenly one! His parables often opened with the words, “The kingdom of heaven is like....” In this lesson, we will explore two of the shortest parables that start with this phrase. These two parables reveal the value of Christ’s kingdom and the rewards of discovering it.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 13:44–46 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `