---
title: The Pearl of Great Price
date: 15/07/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Just as the treasure in the first parable represents Christ, so the pearl of great price in the second parable represents Him. The value of Jesus and His gospel extends beyond anything we can fathom. In Christ are “hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge” (Col. 2:3). All that can satisfy the needs and longings of the human soul, in this world and in the world to come, is found in Christ. Just as the pure white pearl is perfect without the influence of man, so nothing man does can improve this precious gift from God.

The merchant in the parable represents those who seek truth. Some seek because they are dissatisfied with formal religion while others seek meaning, value, and purpose in life. Only the gospel of Jesus can truly fill the void within us. In the parable, the merchant sells everything he has to buy the pearl. Money cannot purchase salvation, so this transaction speaks of something deeper. The prophet Isaiah says, “Ho! Everyone who thirsts, Come to the waters; And you who have no money, Come, buy and eat. Yes, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price” (Isa. 55:1). In the book of Revelation, Jesus says to the Laodicean church, “I counsel you to buy from me gold refined in the fire, that you may be rich” (Rev. 3:18). The only thing we give Jesus in this transaction is our sin-polluted heart (Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ [1892], 46). In return, we receive forgiveness, mercy, power, and all the riches of heaven in the Person of Jesus Christ.

Ellen White provides a fascinating insight into this short parable:

The parable of the merchantman seeking goodly pearls has a double significance: it applies not only to men as seeking the kingdom of heaven, but to Christ as seeking His lost inheritance. Christ, the heavenly merchantman seeking goodly pearls, saw in lost humanity the pearl of price. In man, defiled and ruined by sin, He saw the possibilities of redemption. Hearts that have been the battleground of the conflict with Satan, and that have been rescued by the power of love, are more precious to the Redeemer than are those who have never fallen. God looked upon humanity, not as vile and worthless; He looked upon it in Christ, saw it as it might become through redeeming love. He collected all the riches of the universe, and laid them down in order to buy the pearl. (Christ’s Object Lessons [1900], 118)

Jesus sees in us a treasure, a pearl of great price, that’s worth giving up everything to obtain. He gave up the glories of heaven, came down to earth, and was born as a human being. He lived a life of service and gave His life on the cross to purchase you and me. If He was willing to pay so high a price for us, how much should we be willing to give and surrender to Him? The pearl of great price is worth everything, both for Jesus and for us.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How does your worth in Christ shape your perception of the gospel?`