---
title: Born Again
date: 17/07/2024
---

#### inVite

David wrote, “One thing I have desired of the Lord, that will I seek: That I may dwell in the house of the Lord All the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in His temple” (Ps. 27:4). The hidden treasure and pearl of great price parables invite us to behold the beauty of the gospel. When David saw the beauty of the Lord in the types and symbols of the sanctuary, he desired to learn more. He wanted to dwell in God’s house and understand the plan of salvation more fully. David’s words indicate an ongoing pursuit of God. He had glimpsed something of God’s beauty, but he longed to experience so much more. Our purpose in life should be to grow in our understanding of the gospel and our experience with Christ. When we truly understand the gospel, we will not be content with a mere glance at the story. We will delve deeper into Scripture to uncover more and more treasure.

To experience the treasure found in God’s Word, we must be born again in baptism. Jesus said to Nicodemus, “Most assuredly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God” (John 3:3). We can only grasp the kingdom of heaven when our hearts and minds have been awakened by God’s Spirit. When Jesus taught with parables, some just heard interesting stories while others perceived life-changing truths. Paul later wrote, “The natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him; nor can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned” (1 Cor. 2:14). We need a spiritual mind to understand spiritual things.

A spiritual mind allows us to see the beauty of God’s Word. David cried out, “Oh, how I love Your law! It is my meditation all the day” (Ps. 119:97). He saw in God’s commandments a treasure of great value. When we look at God’s Ten Commandments through the lens of the gospel, we see how God values us. He assures us that we are His. The first commandment is like a marriage vow: “I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. You shall have no other gods before Me” (Exod. 20:2, 3). God promises He is all we need. He is everything to us! He has set us free from sin’s bondage, and we belong to Him. The Ten Commandments are bookended with assurances that God satisfies all our desires. The tenth and last commandment says, “You shall not covet” (Exod. 20:17). It’s a promise! Once Jesus becomes our treasure, we will be so fulfilled in Him that we will need nothing else to fill the void. He has filled it by giving us purpose and value that this world cannot give. Without Him, we continue to covet things of this world to fill the space that only He can fill. With Him, we discover the treasure of the gospel, and all worldly treasures dim in comparison.

`What is Jesus saying to you through the main text?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Why is it so vital to experience the new birth Jesus talked about?`

`Prayer Response:`