---
title:  The Exit and Entrance
date:  30/01/2021
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Romans 6

The Exit and Entrance

According to Paul, there are two realities: the reality created by Adam, and the reality created by Jesus (Romans 5:12–21). Adam’s reality is under the reign of sin and death and is filled with condemnation (Romans 5:18, 21). Jesus’ reality is filled with righteousness, grace, and eternal life (Romans 5:21).

Romans 6 tells us how to exit the reality of sin and death created by Adam and how to enter into the reality of righteousness and life Jesus created. According to Paul, baptism is the way we leave the reality created by Adam and immerse ourselves in a new reality created by Jesus.

When we are baptized, we are baptized into Christ (Romans 6:3). This includes being united to Christ’s death and resurrection (Romans 6:5). When we are baptized, we are to consider ourselves dead to sin and alive to God (Romans 6:11). We have left the old reality of Adam and are freed from sin (Romans 6:7) and liberated from the dominion of death (Romans 6:9). In the new reality created by Jesus, we can bear fruit to holiness, and in the end, we will enjoy everlasting life (Romans 6:22, 23).

Every exit is also an entrance. Baptism is an exit from the reality of Adam and an entrance into the reality of Jesus. If you are in the world of Adam, Jesus has made a way of escape. Flee now. If you are in the world of Jesus, present yourself to God and enjoy the promise of everlasting life.

#### inScribe

Write out Romans 6 from the Bible translation of your choice. If you are pressed for time, write out Romans 6:5–11. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

``