---
title: 'The Rush of Life'
date: 31/05/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Exodus 34:1–9

It had been a very busy week. Although she knew there was a lot to be done before Sabbath, the urgent seemed to consume the important, and before she knew it, the sun had gone down. The family shared a special Friday night meal and worship together.

However, when Sabbath morning came and she woke up early, she couldn’t help noticing the dirty bathroom, which she wiped down. Then she saw that her young son had wet the bed, so she threw his sheets into the washer along with other clothes. As she prepared breakfast for her family, she realized there was no dessert for lunch, so she quickly baked some banana bread. She noticed her husband needed a shirt ironed for church, so she did that, too, then folded some clothes and took out the trash.

Then it hit her. _It’s Sabbath—a day I love more than any other! Yet here I am, doing all these chores and allowing these things to distract me from what Sabbath is really about—drawing near to God._

For just a moment, she started justifying her actions—all these things needed doing. Did they really? She realized she was acting like Martha, “distracted with much serving” (Luke 10:40). The words of Jesus echoed in her mind: “You are worried and troubled about many things. But one thing is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part, which will not be taken away from her” (Luke 10:41, 42). That good part. Sitting at Jesus’ feet out of a deep love for Him—not just on Sabbath, but every day. She hadn’t chosen that this morning.

She loved God, yet it was easy to forget that He had given her the Sabbath as a gift in time to make their relationship stronger. Silent tears fell from her eyes as she stood there in the quiet kitchen.

The purpose of this example is not to focus on what we should or shouldn’t do on Sabbath; rather, it is a reminder of why it’s important for us to notice the things that weaken or break down our relationship with God. When our hearts feel the pain of sin and separation and we call out to Him, Jesus is very close. In His hands, He holds a white robe. He sees our tears of repentance and takes away our dirty clothes. He then wraps His pure robe of righteousness all the way around us and covers our sin—completely and perfectly.

Interestingly, both John the Baptist and Jesus opened their ministries with a similar message. John said, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand!” (Matt. 3:2). Jesus said, “The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent, and believe in the gospel” (Mark 1:15). Both Jesus and John called those listening to repentance because the kingdom of heaven was near. Could it be that this same message is equally relevant to us today? The secular world bombards us with messages of independence, indulgence, and self-promotion—the opposite of the principles of God’s kingdom. Jesus suffered, died, and rose so that when we repent, His grace can work a miracle in our lives. Contrary to the world, which tells us we are fine just the way we are, God asks that we turn to Him in repentance and faith (Acts 20:21).

This week we will examine the Bible teaching about repentance and forgiveness and why they are so important for a healthy relationship with God.

### inScribe

`Write out Exodus 34:5–9 from the translation of your choice. What does this say about God’s willingness to forgive in light of the rebellion that happened in Exodus 32?`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.