---
title: 'Sufficient Grace'
date: 01/06/2026
---

### inGest

The Promised Land seemed so far away to the Israelites, who were camped beneath the pillar of cloud on the plain. Moses had ascended into the thick darkness, which had covered the top of the mountain many days earlier. Surely their leader had died by now, they reasoned—if not from starvation, then perhaps from the consuming fire on its peak. The mixed multitude among them felt restless and impatient, ready to move on to the land flowing with milk and honey. Although these same people had, just a few weeks earlier, made a solemn covenant with God to obey Him, they wanted an image they could see. So they rallied around Aaron’s tent and demanded that he create an idol for them. Fearing for his own safety, Aaron agreed.

In Exodus 32–34, we read how this shocking story unravels. It’s hard to imagine the camp of Israel in open defiance and rebellion against God only weeks after they promised full loyalty to Him. The terms of the covenant had been clearly read and symbolized. After reading the Book of the Covenant, Moses sprinkled blood on the congregation, illustrating the kind of penalty that breaking the covenant would incur (Exod. 24:7, 8). Everybody knew they had pledged their lives to the covenant. Anybody who broke the covenant deserved death.

Idolatry was forbidden in the most explicit terms, and yet there they were mixing God’s worship with idol worship (Exod. 32:4, 5). Could God forgive such blatant rebellion? Would God want to forgive? How could He pardon them? These were the questions on everybody’s minds after the sin of the golden calf. The people understood that their very existence was in question (Exod. 33:4–6). They were afraid God would destroy them all.

Moses waited for God’s response. The answer came when God declared Himself to be “merciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin” (Exod. 34:6, 7).

This account is just one story from Scripture that teaches us about repentance and forgiveness. Yes, we sin, but thanks to the plan of salvation, forgiveness is always there for the confessing and repentant sinner. When we are willing to acknowledge and confess our sin; when we say, O, Lord, here I am again… “be merciful to me a sinner!” (Luke 18:13), then Jesus—who has already been working in us and for us through the Holy Spirit before we even call out to Him—sees the weight and takes it from us.

**Questions to explore:**

`What makes you doubt God’s forgiveness? How can you have greater assurance of God’s forgiveness?`