---
title: 'Holy Spirit Promptings'
date: 02/06/2026
---

### inTerpret

As he thought about the distance between himself and his wife, he knew he had been wrong. He’d been unkind and harsh and had said some things he’d regretted. Yet his next thought was, _didn’t she deserve it, even a little bit?_

Is this thought process familiar to you? It’s easy to flip from a sense of remorse to a justification of our thoughts and actions. It’s not always easy to say “I’m sorry” when we have done wrong, yet this is so essential to rebuilding or strengthening any relationship.

The same is true of us and God. The Holy Spirit often brings to our minds the sins we have committed. These promptings move our hearts, but it’s easy to push away that still, small voice as we justify why we acted a certain way. One role of the Holy Spirit is to “convict the world of sin” (John 16:8). What an incredible gift from God! We need such convictions to repair the distance that can creep into our walk with God!

We depend on the Holy Spirit to help us recognize sin in our lives and turn away from it. Without the Holy Spirit, we are spiritually helpless, not even able to repent in our own strength.

We often sorrow because our evil deeds bring unpleasant consequences to ourselves; but this is not repentance. Real sorrow for sin is the result of the working of the Holy Spirit. The Spirit reveals the ingratitude of the heart that has slighted and grieved the Saviour, and brings us in contrition to the foot of the cross. By every sin Jesus is wounded afresh; and as we look upon Him whom we have pierced, we mourn for the sins that have brought anguish upon Him. Such mourning will lead to the renunciation of sin.<sup>1</sup>

The truth is, we can’t grow in our relationship with God when chosen and cherished sin stands between us and Him. When we resist conviction, we grieve the Holy Spirit and wound our relationship with God (Eph. 4:30). God desires to forgive us and cleanse our hearts if we are willing to repent and follow Him. The goal is not to produce our own perfection of character but to depend on Christ’s perfect righteousness and allow His beautiful character to cover us, fill us, and flow through us day by day. The Christian life is one of continual dependence on God and trusting His mercy and power, never boasting in ourselves, but remaining confident in what God is doing for us.

`When did you last hear a rebuke or a call to repentance? How did you respond? Spend some time right now in prayer, asking God to soften your heart and open your ears to His voice in His Word this week.`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Exodus 34:1–9. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages (1898), 300.