---
title: 'Clothes and Identity'
date: 04/06/2026
---

### inVite

People often choose their clothes as an expression of their personality, their culture, or their status. Clothes express identity. Luxury clothing too often defines the rich by worldly standards. Some people say, “I dress this way to express who I am.” However, those who are seeking God should have their identity wrapped up in Jesus and His perfect robe of righteousness. To all those who repent of sin and seek forgiveness, Jesus offers His clean robe of righteousness in exchange for their filthy rags.

Jesus used these symbols when He told a parable in Matthew 22:1–14. In the story, a king threw a grand wedding celebration for his son. To his shock, one guest entered the banquet without a proper wedding garment. Imagine attending a royal banquet in filthy, ragged clothing! The king in the story called the man without a robe “friend.” Despite the man’s lack of response, they must have had a relationship. The man must have known about the robe but had chosen not to wear it. Rather than accepting the gift of clean white clothes, this man decided he favored his own worn-out, stained clothes. His old personal clothes represented his own righteousness. The Bible says, “all our righteousnesses are like filthy rags” (Isa. 64:6). Seeing our need, Jesus offers us His perfect robe of righteousness that we might “be arrayed in fine linen, clean and bright” (Rev. 19:8), “not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing” (Eph. 5:27). Those who accept the wedding garment can say, “He has covered me with the robe of righteousness” (Isa. 61:10). This beautiful white linen “is the righteousness of Christ, His own unblemished character, that through faith is imparted to all who receive Him as their personal Saviour.”<sup>1</sup>

Adam and Eve wore a white robe of soft light before they sinned; after they sinned, they realized they were naked (Gen. 3:7). Then God replaced the robe of fig leaves made by Adam and Eve with garments from animal skins. An animal sacrifice produced their clothes. In a similar way, we accept Jesus’ robe of righteousness made possible by His sacrifice.

Trying to sew our own robe of righteousness will fail every time. Only the robe of righteousness provided by Jesus will pass inspection at this royal wedding banquet. No matter how good our works are, there are stains on our record. Only the righteousness of Jesus is pure and spotless. We all depend on the gift of Christ’s righteousness to cover us and give us entrance into the kingdom of God.

**Questions to consider:**

`We should daily choose to be clothed with Jesus’ robe of righteousness. What does this really mean, and how do we do this?`

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons (1900), 310.