---
title:  inQuire
date:   05/06/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Merciful and gracious:**

1. When God made a covenant with Israel, what was their pledge, and what level of consequences was symbolized by the sprinkling of blood? Exod. 24:7, 8
2. What kind of shocking rebellion unfolded only weeks after the Israelites had made their covenant with God? Exod. 32:1–6
3. How much was God willing to forgive Israel for their blatant defiance against Him? Exod. 34:5–9

`Personal reflection: How does this story from Exodus shape your view of God’s character? What does it communicate to you about God’s love and willingness to forgive?`

**True repentance:**

1. Where does true repentance come from? Acts 5:31; Rom. 2:4
2. Who do we depend on to convict us of sin? John 16:8, 13
3. How do you know the difference between genuine repentance and insincere repentance? See this week’s inSight.

**Robe of righteousness:**

1. In Jesus’ parable, what happens to those who come to the royal wedding banquet without proper clothing? Matt. 22:11–13
2. What do our own dirty clothes represent? Isa. 64:6
3. What does the clean, white robe represent? Isa. 61:10
4. What does God remove from us so that He can clothe us in the perfect righteousness of Christ? Zech. 3:1–5

`Personal reflection: How would you explain the precious gift of Christ’s robe of righteousness to a non-Christian or a new believer?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- God is willing to forgive the biggest sins, if we confess.
- Identifying our sins in response to the Holy Spirit’s promptings and surrendering self in repentance are vital parts of having a thriving relationship with God.
- Knowing that we are completely forgiven and covered by Jesus’ robe of righteousness is the most transformative experience for a human being.