---
title:  The Cross and the Church
date:   22/07/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 2:1–3; Ephesians 2:14–16; Ephesians 4:3; Romans 10:14, 15; Ephesians 2:17–19.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “At one time you were far away, but now you have been brought near to God by the blood [death] of Jesus Christ. Christ has made peace between us. He has brought both Jews and non-Jews together into one people” (Ephesians 2:13, 14, WE).

Have you wondered how new Christians lived and felt in Bible times? To help you understand their experience, make this picture in your mind: you are a non-Jew living in Jerusalem during New Testament times. You are Greek. Not long ago, you learned about the God of the Jews. You accepted Him and stopped praying to false gods. Today, you walk across the beautiful area outside the Jerusalem temple. You praise God and want to worship Him inside His temple. Just then, you see a stone wall in front of the temple with signs on it. The signs are written in Greek and Latin. The message on the signs says: “No foreigner may enter. Any foreigner who tries to enter will be killed.” When you read these words, you feel separated and shut out from God.

In Ephesians 2:11–22, Paul says that Jesus died on the cross to destroy the “walls” that separate people from God and from each other. The Cross brings peace between Jews and non-Jews (Ephesians 2:15). Because of the Cross, Jesus makes us one new family known as the church. The church becomes a new “temple” where God lives (Ephesians 2:22).

What does this Bible truth teach us today?