---
title:  Jesus Brings Us Near to God
date:   23/07/2023
---

`Compare Ephesians 2:1–3 with Ephesians 2:11, 12. In these verses, Paul talks about the non-Jews and their past. What does Paul say about them?`

Paul writes to non-Jews who are now Christians. They are believers in Jesus. They are part of Jesus’ church. In the past, these same people were separated from Israel and from God’s saving plan. Paul wants these new Christians to remember their past (Ephesians 2:11). In the past, the non-Jews lived without Jesus, the Savior. The non-Jews were foreigners or strangers. They were not part of Israel. They had no part in God’s Agreement. They knew nothing about God’s promises to save humans from sin. They had no hope and lived without God (Ephesians 2:12).

Also, in the past, these non-Jews fought each other and the Jews. These non-Jews were filled with hate. They said mean and nasty things about the Jews. The Jews said mean and nasty things about the non-Jews (Ephesians 2:11).

In Ephesians 2:13, Paul shows us that things have changed. Paul says to the non-Jewish Christians, “At one time you were far away, but now you have been brought near to God by the blood of Jesus Christ. Christ has made peace between us. He has brought both Jews and non-Jews together into one people” (Ephesians 2:13, 14, WE).

Do you see the words written as “far away”? Paul borrows these words from Isaiah 57:19, which says: “ ‘I will give peace to those who are near and to those who are far away. . . .’ The Lordord himself said this” (ERV; compare Ephesians 2:17, 18). Jesus brought the non-Jewish Christians close to God and to the Jewish Christians. How did Jesus make this miracle happen? The answer is by His death on the cross. The Cross ended the separation between Jews and non-Jews in the church. The Cross solved their problems and healed their hearts. This announcement is good news for us, today. Jesus wants us to think about everything that separates us from Him and from other people in the church. He wants us to trust that He can solve any problem we have.

`What was your past experience before Jesus saved you? Why is it important to remember this experience often? If Jesus hadn’t saved you, how would you be living your life now?`