---
title:  God’s Gift from the Cross
date:   24/07/2023
---

> <p></p>
> “Because of Christ [Jesus] we now have peace. Christ made both Jews and non-Jews one people. They were separated as if there were a wall between them. But Christ broke down that wall of hate by giving his own body. . . . And after Christ made the two groups to be one body [the church], he wanted to bring them back to God. Christ did this with his death on the cross” (Ephesians 2:14–16, ICB).

`Read Ephesians 1:7, 8; Ephesians 4:32; Ephesians 2:13, 14; Ephesians 2:16; Ephesians 5:2, 25. In these verses, Paul says that the Cross makes our friendships better? How? How does the Cross help us to love people more?`

In Ephesians 2:11–22, Paul says that the Cross does three things for Christians. (1) The Cross brings non-Jews close to God (Ephesians 2:13). In the past, non-Jews were far away in their hearts from God and His people. Now these non-Jews are sons and daughters of God. They also are brothers and sisters of the Jewish Christians (Ephesians 2:19). (2) The Cross removes the hate between Jewish Christians and non-Jewish Christians (Ephesians 2:16). The Cross ends the anger and war between these two groups (Ephesians 2:17). (3) The Cross helps bring peace and agreement in the church. Jesus had a plan to make the two groups one group. “After Christ [Jesus] made the two groups to be one body [the church], he wanted to bring them back to God. Christ did this with his death on the cross” (Ephesians 2:14–16, ICB; compare Colossians 1:19–22).

How does the Cross help God to accept us? How does the Cross help us to love and accept each other? Imagine in your mind a mother and a daughter arguing. Their disagreement causes them to stop talking to each other for a few years. Then they start talking to each other again. The mother and daughter forgive each other. They meet again after their long separation. This same thing happens when one church member is willing to stop being angry or upset at another church member. The forgiving church member sees the one who hurt him as his brother. This brother accepts the mercy and forgiveness from the one he hurt or upset. The Cross can heal our broken connections and friendships. The Cross destroys separation and ends fights. The Cross helps make possible again our fellowship with other Christians.