---
title:  Breaking the Wall that Separates Us
date:   25/07/2023
---

`What does Paul say that Jesus did to “the law with its many commands and rules” (Ephesians 2:15, ERV)? Why did Jesus do this thing? (Read, also, Ephesians 2:14.)`

Paul may be talking about the real wall with its warning sign that we read about earlier (review Sabbath’s study). Paul imagines this wall breaking so that non-Jews can worship God together with Jews (Ephesians 2:18). The Cross removes all walls between God’s people. Then Jewish Christians and non-Jewish Christians become one people.

Some people believe that Ephesians 2:14, 15 teaches that God threw out the Ten Commandments. But Paul shows us that this idea is false. Paul respects God’s law and believes that the law helps us understand how to follow Jesus. Paul talks about the law a lot. Paul talks about the 5th commandment (Ephesians 6:2, 3). He talks about the 7th commandment (Ephesians 5:3–14, 21–33), the 8th commandment (Ephesians 4:28), the 9th commandment (Ephesians 4:25), and the 10th commandment (Ephesians 5:5). So, we can see that Paul respects the law. Romans 3:31 and Romans 7:12, also, talk about Paul’s respect for the law. Would Paul talk about the law so much if God already threw it out? The problem isn’t the law. The problem is with people who use the law in the wrong way. But that doesn’t make the law wrong. We should not throw the law out just because people teach wrong things about the law. Paul honors the law and says its rules continue forever. So, people who say that Ephesians 2:14, 15 teaches that God ended the Ten Commandments don’t understand what Paul really is saying in Ephesians 2:14, 15.

Paul is against anyone trying to use the law to separate Jewish Christians and non-Jewish Christians. Separation is not God’s plan for His people. The word “law” in Ephesians 2:14, 15 means the rules about animal offerings in the Old Testament. The word “law” also may mean the whole worship plan that God gave Israel in Old Testament times. The Jewish leaders used this plan to cause separation between the Jews and the non-Jews.

`What causes any separation between Seventh-day Adventists and other Christians in your community? How can your local church help stop this separation? Why should our love for Jesus help us solve this problem?`