---
title:  Jesus Preaches About Peace
date:   26/07/2023
---

`What does Paul say about the special work that Jesus does? Read Ephesians 2:17, 18 for the answer.`

Peace is an important idea in Paul’s letter to the Ephesians. The letter starts and ends with blessings of peace from God the Father and from Jesus our Lord (Ephesians 1:2; compare Ephesians 6:23). In Ephesians 2:11–22, Paul said that peace is a Person. That Person is Jesus. So, Jesus Himself is our peace! The Cross gives us peace (Ephesians 2:14–16). Because Jesus is peace, He destroys the hate between Jews and non-Jews (Ephesians 2:14, 15). Jesus also makes humans new. He makes our connections and friendships new, too, and fills them with peace (Ephesians 2:15–17). The peace that Jesus gives us means that we do more than stop fighting. Jesus’ peace makes us whole and happy with God (Romans 5:1) and with other people.

`What does Paul say about Christians sharing Jesus’ message about peace? Read Ephesians 4:3; Ephesians 6:14, 15 for the answer; also, compare Romans 10:14, 15 with Ephesians 2:17–19; Isaiah 52:7; and Isaiah 57:19.`

The Gospels are the first four books of the New Testament: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. The Gospels show Jesus as a preacher for peace. In Jesus’ final sermon to His followers, He promises them (and us) peace. “ ‘I leave you peace. My peace I give you’ ” (John 14:27, ICB). Jesus ends His sermon with these words: “ ‘I have told you these things, so that you can have peace because of me. In this world [life] you will have trouble. But be encouraged! I have won the battle [fight] over [against] the world [everything that stands in the way of God’s kingdom]’ ” (John 16:33, NIrV). After Jesus wakes up from the dead, He shows Himself to His followers. Again, He tells them, “ ‘Peace be with you!’ ” (John 20:19, 21, 26, ERV).

In Ephesians 2:17, 18, Paul says that Jesus’ message about peace was for Jews and non-Jews alike (compare Ephesians 2:11–13). When we accept this announcement about peace from Jesus, we will get a wonderful blessing.

`How can we learn to preach about peace? How can we bring healing right now to the lives of people around us?`