---
title:  Church is the Same as a Holy Temple
date:   27/07/2023
---

`What word pictures does Paul use in Ephesians 2:11–22? How do these word pictures show us the need for peace and agreement between Jews and non-Jews in the church?`

As we already saw, Ephesians 2:1–10 teaches us that we live in peace and agreement with God because of Jesus. That’s because Jesus’ death helps God to accept us (Ephesians 2:1–10). Ephesians 2:11–22 teaches us that we may live in peace and agreement with other church members, too. Jesus’ death also helps heal our friendships with other people (Ephesians 2:11–22). Jesus broke everything that separated His non-Jewish followers from His Jewish followers. After Jesus broke the walls that separated His people, He built a beautiful “temple”: this temple is a word picture for Christians, or the church. Before Jesus died on the cross, non-Jews couldn’t worship in the holy parts of the temple. But after Jesus woke up from the dead, His non-Jewish followers joined with His Jewish followers. Together, these two separate groups became a new temple. In the same way, Christians today become part of God’s church (Ephesians 2:19–22). We live in agreement and peace with Jesus and our brothers and sisters who believe in Him.

`In Ephesians 2:19–22, Paul uses the church as a word picture. Also, read 1 Corinthians 3:9–17; 2 Corinthians 6:14–7:1; and 1 Peter 2:4–8. In these verses, what Bible truth does the word picture of the church show us?`

Paul uses the word picture of the church to show us that non-Jews are part of God’s church. As we said, the non-Jews weren’t allowed to worship in the holy parts of the temple. Now these same non-Jews are accepted by God (Ephesians 2:18). These non-Jews also become the same as living bricks or stones that God uses to build His new temple on earth. This temple is a place where God lives by His Spirit in the hearts of His people (Ephesians 2:22). New Testament writers use the temple as a word picture to show us important Bible truth. God’s church is holy. God is the One who starts and builds the church (Ephesians 2:22). God’s followers in the church live in peace and agreement with each other. God’s temple is living. So, it grows (read Ephesians 2:21).