---
title:  Additional thought
date:   28/07/2023
---

Why does Paul write Ephesians 2:11–22? What is happening in the church at the time that Paul writes his letter?

In Ephesians 2:11–22, Paul talks about how the Cross changes human connections and friendships. Paul also talks about Jewish and non-Jewish Christians who are members of the church. Paul wants both groups of Christians to understand that they are all part of God’s family (Ephesians 2:19). Paul also talks about God’s plan to join everything together in peace and agreement under Jesus’ control (Ephesians 1:9, 10). Everything includes God’s family in heaven and His family on earth (Ephesians 3:15).

In Ephesians 3:10, Paul tells us another reason why God wants to join all church members together in peace and agreement. “His purpose [plan] was that all the rulers [leaders] and powers [the top angels] in the heavenly [in heaven] places will now know the many different ways he shows his wisdom. They will know this because of the church” (Ephesians 3:10, ERV). The church must show the peace and agreement that Jesus showed on the cross. When church members are at peace with each other, we show God’s plan for peace and agreement. So, we must read Ephesians 2:11–22 to learn important rules about how to get along with people who are different from us. Then we can help God with His wonderful plan to bring peace and agreement to the people on this earth.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What Bible rules do you read about in Ephesians 2:11–22? What do these rules teach us about how we should get along with people who are different from us? How should members of one race group get along with members of a different race group? What rules does Jesus give us to help us to know the answer?`

`We can read about God’s plan for the future of humans in Ephesians 1:9, 10 and Ephesians 2:11–22. How important is it for the church to solve its own race problems?`

`What race problems do you see in your community? How may the church help to solve these problems? What can you do to help?`