---
title:  Good and Better
date:  26/11/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Hebrews 11 and 12:18–24**

**Good and Better**

One passage in the book of Hebrews seems to teach that the spirits of just men went to heaven when they died. In this lesson we will put this standard Protestant view of the passage to careful scrutiny in order to determine if that interpretation is correct. Here is the passage with some explanatory notes of the verbs in the passage:

“But you have come [perfect tense, active voice] to Mount Zion, to the heavenly Jerusalem, the city of the living God. You have come to thousands upon thousands of angels in joyful assembly, to the church of the firstborn, whose names are [better: “have been,” perfect tense, passive voice] written in heaven. You have come to God, the judge of all men, to the spirits of righteous men made [better: “that have been made,” perfect tense, passive voice) perfect, to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel” (Heb. 12:22–24, NIV).

A careful study of the book of Hebrews reveals that the writer was dealing with a specific problem. Jews who had embraced Christianity were about to give it up and return to what they considered the riches of Judaism. With nostalgia they remembered that before becoming Christians they had the glorious city of Jerusalem with its resplendent temple, the priesthood, the fathers, the covenants, and the promises. And now what did they have? Nothing but opposition and persecution!

The writer of the book attempted to persuade the Hebrews to persevere. He pointed out that although the Old Testament system was good, the New Testament was better. Under the shadow system, individuals were saved by faith in the promised Messiah, while under the new, they were saved by faith in the Messiah who had come.

#### inScribe

Read Hebrews 11 and 12:18–24 from the translation of your choice. Write out Hebrews 12:18–24. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `