---
title:  In Heaven but on Earth
date:  27/11/2022
---

#### inGest

This passage (Heb. 12:18–24) does not say that the Hebrews _would come_ to the heavenly Mount Zion/New Jerusalem in the future. They had _already_ come there while still living on earth! The Hebrews were worshiping in the heavenly Jerusalem, where the names of the members of the church of the firstborn had been registered and the spirits of the righteous _had been_ made perfect. The question is, How could the living Hebrews worship in heaven where the spirits of the righteous had been made perfect while they still lived on earth? Evangelical scholar George Eldon Ladd, in his book, _The Presence of the Future_ (George Eldon Ladd, _The Presence of the Future: The Eschatology of Biblical Realism_ (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1974).), argued persuasively that Christians can even now enjoy the blessings of the future. Christians can _now_ eat the heavenly Manna (John 6:48–51), drink water from the Rock (John 4:13, 14; 7:37–39), and come boldly to the throne of grace (Heb. 4:15).

The members of the church of the firstborn were not physically worshiping in heaven. They were there because their names had been “registered” or recorded in heaven (cf. Luke 2:3, 5; 10:20). Paul wrote that even now we are seated with Christ in heavenly places although we are physically on earth (Eph. 2:6). Though we live on earth, our citizenship is in heaven (Phil. 3:20, 21).

Who are the “spirits” in this passage? We have pointed out that the “spirit” is the life record of the believer that is recorded in the heavenly books. “The spirit, the character of man, is returned to God, there to be preserved.” (Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, _Ellen G. White Comments_, 6:1093.)

Who are the “just men”? The word _men_ is not in the Greek text. The text simply reads, “to the spirits of the righteous made perfect.” The word _men_ is absent because women appear in the list of Old Testament heroes in Hebrews 11. Each of these persons accomplished their feats by faith in the righteousness of Christ, and their names are registered in heaven. Hebrews 11:4 refers to Abel as “righteous,” and Hebrews 11:7 tells us that Noah became an heir of the “righteousness that is by faith.” James wrote that both Rahab and Abraham were justified by faith (James 2:23, 25).

What is the meaning of the expression “made perfect”? In order to answer this question, we must first study the phrase as it relates to Christ. In His case, the term does not refer to moral perfection of character. The sense is that the OT sacrifices were incomplete—not perfect—because they could not legally save sinners; the blood of bulls and goats cannot take away sin (Heb. 10:4). The word _perfect_ describes the work that Jesus needed to accomplish in order to become our complete—perfect—Savior. The life and death of Jesus qualified or “perfected” Him to legally perfect the life record—or spirit—of the Old Testament saints.

**Memorize your favorite verse in Hebrews 11; 12:18–24. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How are you now experiencing the blessings of the future?`

`What is your reaction as you approach the cloud of imperfect witnesses of faith in Hebrews 11 made perfect?`