---
title:  Perfecting the Life Record
date:  28/11/2022
---

#### inTerpret

In previous lessons we noticed that the “spirit” is the breath with the life record that God stores in heavenly books to be returned at the resurrection. Somehow, during the OT period, the life records of the righteous dead were not “perfect.” Why? Simply because Jesus had not yet come. By His life and death, Jesus became “perfect” or qualified to _legally_ perfect or qualify them for salvation.

Hebrews 7–10 tells us that the OT sacrificial system could not _legally_ perfect or qualify the OT believers for salvation. The Levitical priesthood made nothing perfect because it merely pointed forward to a better hope (Heb. 7:11, 19). The OT system could not make the worshiper’s conscience perfect because it “was symbolic for the present time in which both gifts and sacrifices are offered which cannot make him who performed the service perfect in regard to the conscience concerned only with foods and drinks, various washings, and fleshly ordinances imposed until the _time of reformation_” (Heb. 9:9, 10). However, Jesus legally forgave the sins of the heroes of faith and made their “spirit” (life record) perfect because He came not “with the blood of goats and calves, but with His own blood,” and thus obtained “eternal redemption” (Heb. 9:12, NKJV).

Hebrews 10:1–4, 11, 12, 14, draws a contrast between the Old and the New. The ceremonial system could _not perfect_ those who approached, because the blood of bulls and goats could not legally take away sin. After offering animal blood, the worshipers would still be conscious of their sins. However, by one offering of better blood, Jesus “_perfected forever_” those who are “being sanctified.”

The life record of the OT saints was not perfect, because Jesus the reality, had not yet come: “And all these, having obtained a good testimony through faith, did not receive the promise” (Heb. 11:39). The OT heroes could not be perfected without or apart from the NT Christians: “God having provided something better for us that they should not be _made perfect_ apart from us” (Heb. 10:40, emphasis supplied). What is this “something better”? The book of Hebrews provides the answer. The OT heroes lived in the period of shadows, while the immediate audience of the book of Hebrews lived in the time of the reality toward which those shadows pointed!

We are now ready to understand Hebrews 12:24. Most Bible versions assume that this text contrasts the shed blood of Abel with the shed blood of Jesus. The words “the blood of” are inserted into the text. Animal blood could not legally take away sin, but the blood of Christ does! Albert Barnes captured the proper sense: “The meaning here is, that the blood of Jesus speaks better things than Abel did; that is, that the blood of Jesus is the ‘reality’ of which the offering of Abel was a ‘type.’ ” (From Barnes’ Notes, Electronic Database Copyright © 1997–2014 by Biblesoft, Inc. All rights reserved.)

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How is the blood of Jesus perfecting you?`