---
title:  The Battle Over the Body of Moses
date:  30/11/2022
---

#### inVite

The late Evangelical writer Robert Morey was quite certain that “the spirits of just men” were the departed souls of OT saints:

In this glorious picture described by the author, the earthly saints join in the worship which resounds from the myriads of angels and disembodied spirits of fellow saints who have departed this life. These saints were justified through faith while on earth and are now perfected and completed in heaven. That the author is describing the blest condition of departed saints who now worship God before the throne is so clear that we must agree with the commentators that it cannot be questioned or doubted. . . . The “spirits of justified men now perfected” who are worshiping at God’s throne are obviously conscious souls of believers during the intermediate state. (Robert A. Morey, Death and the Afterlife (Minneapolis: Bethany House, 1984), 213, emphasis supplied.)

Are the “spirits of the righteous” really the “disembodied spirits” and “conscious souls” of the departed? To answer this question, let’s take the case of Moses, one of the notable heroes of Hebrews 11. After God buried Moses (Deut. 34:5, 6), there was a mighty dispute over his body between Michael the Archangel (cf. 1 Thess. 4:16; Dan. 12:1, 2; Rev. 12:7–9) and the devil (Jude 9). Do Jesus and the devil fight over corpses? Of course not! Michael had come to resurrect Moses, and Satan contested His right to do so. We know that Michael won the battle because Moses appeared to Jesus in glory on the Mount of Transfiguration fourteen centuries later. Nowhere does the transfiguration text say that the “spirit” or “soul” of Moses spoke with Jesus on the Mount.

Satan claimed that Moses was his because he had sinned when he killed the Egyptian and struck the rock twice. In the OT period, Jesus had not yet legally paid the price for the redemption of Moses. For this reason, Moses (and Elijah) talked with Jesus “of His decease which He was about to accomplish at Jerusalem” (cf. Luke 9:30, 31). Moses and Elijah were sent by the Father to encourage Jesus to go forward with the redemption plan. The life record or “spirit” of Moses had not yet been “made perfect” because the blood of bulls and goats could not take away sin. When Jesus died on the cross, the life record (“spirit”) of Moses was made perfect!

Paul alluded to this in Romans 3:25, 26, where he wrote that Jesus offered Himself as a propitiation for our sins to “demonstrate His righteousness, because in His forbearance, God had passed over the sins that were previously committed, to demonstrate at the present time His righteousness, that He might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus.”

` `