---
title:  Fearing God
date:  16/04/2023
---

#### inGest

For our generation the purpose of the book of Revelation is to prepare a people to be ready for Jesus’ soon return and to unite with Him in spreading His last-day message to the world. Revelation reveals the plans of God and unmasks the plans of Satan. It presents God’s final appeal, His urgent, eternal, and universal message for all humanity.

The Greek New Testament word for “fear” found in Revelation 14:7 is phobeo. It is used here not in the sense of being afraid of God, but in the sense of reverence, awe, and respect. It conveys the thought of absolute loyalty to God and full surrender to His will. It is an attitude of mind that is God-centered rather than self-centered. It is the opposite of Lucifer’s attitude in Isaiah 14:13, 14 when he says in his heart, “I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God; I will also sit on the mount of the congregation on the farthest sides of the north; I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the Most High.”

Instead, it is the attitude of Christ, who, though He was “in the form of God, . . . humbled Himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross” (Phil. 2:6, 8).

The essence of the great controversy revolves around submission to God. Lucifer was self-centered. He refused to submit to any authority except his own. Rather than submit to the One upon the throne, Lucifer desired to rule from the throne. Put simply, to fear God is to place Him first in our thinking. It is to renounce our self-centeredness and pride and to live a life wholly for Him.

It obviously must be important since it’s the first words out of the mouth of the first angel of the three. We therefore must take heed.

The Bible reveals a link between fearing God and keeping His commandments (Deut. 6:2; Ps. 119:73, 74; Eccles. 12:13, 14). Fearing God is an attitude of reverential respect that leads us to obedience. Heaven’s urgent appeal is for those saved by grace to be obedient to God’s commands (Eph. 2:8–10). Grace does not free us from obeying His commands. The gospel sets us free from the law’s condemnation, not from our responsibility to obey it.

Grace not only delivers us from the guilt of our past but also empowers us to live godly, obedient lives in the present. The apostle Paul declares that “we have received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith among all nations” (Rom. 1:5).

There are some people who have the strange idea that salvation by grace somehow negates the law of God or minimizes the necessity for obedience. They believe that any talk about obedience is legalism. They have declared, “All I want is Jesus.” The question is, which Jesus? A Jesus of our own making, or the Jesus of Scripture? The Christ of Scripture never leads us to downplay His law, which is the transcript of His character (see John 1:1, 14). The Christ of Scripture never leads us to minimize the doctrines of the Bible, which reveal more clearly who He is. Christ is the embodiment of all doctrinal truth. He is truth incarnate and doctrine lived out.

Revelation’s final appeal calls us through faith in Jesus to accept the fullness of everything He offers. It calls us to “fear God,” which is expressed by faith in His ability to empower us to live godly, obedient lives.

Journal:

`How would you explain to someone, in a positive way, why “the fear of God” is a good thing?`

`How do Jesus’ words here, “And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. But rather fear Him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell” (Matt. 10:28), help us understand what it means to fear God?`

` `