---
title:  A God-centered Life
date:  17/04/2023
---

#### inTerpret

In an age of consumerism, when secular values have made self the center, heaven’s appeal is to turn from the tyranny of egocentricity and the bondage of self-inflated importance and to place God at the center of our lives. For some, money is the center of their lives. For others, it is pleasure or power. For still others, it may be sports, music, or entertainment. Revelation’s message is a clarion call to fear, respect, and honor God as life’s true center.

The main issue in earth’s final conflict is a battle for the mind. It is one of allegiance, authority, and commitment to God’s will. The final battle in the great controversy is between good and evil over which controls our thoughts. The apostle Paul gives us this admonition: “Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus” (Phil. 2:5). The word “let” means to allow or to choose. It speaks of a volitional act of the will. The mind is the citadel of our being. The decision to have the mind of Christ is the decision to allow Jesus to shape our thinking and by extension our being by filling our minds with the things of eternity. The mind is the wellspring of our actions, and our actions consequently reveal where our thinking process is. To fear God is to make Him first in our lives.

Think about how easy, in one sense, it is to control your thoughts, at least when you are conscious that you need to control them. The problem is often that unless we make a conscious effort to dwell on the right things, the “things above, not . . . things on the earth” (Col. 3:2), our minds, fallen and sinful as they are, will naturally tend toward the base things, the things of the world. We therefore need to purposely and deliberately choose, using the sacred gift of free will, to dwell on the heavenly things as Paul said.

“Finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue and if there is anything praiseworthy—meditate on these things” (Phil. 4:8).

A study of the use of the phrase in the Old Testament “to give glory to God” shows that, interestingly enough, it often, though not always, appears in the context of divine judgment (Josh. 7:19; 1 Sam. 6:5; Jer. 13:15, 16; Mal. 2:2), just as it does in the first angel’s message (Rev. 14:7). This idea is also seen in Revelation 19:1, 2: “Alleluia! Salvation and glory and honor and power belong to the Lord our God! For true and righteous are His judgments.”

According to the apostle Paul, our bodies are a sanctuary, the dwelling place of the Spirit of God, a temple made holy by His presence. The Scriptures call us in no uncertain terms to glorify God in every aspect of our lives. When God is the center of our lives, our one desire is to give glory to Him, whether with our diet, dress, entertainment, or interactions with others. We glorify God as we reveal His character of love to the world through our commitment to doing His will. This is even more important in light of earth’s end-time judgment.

In Romans 12:1, 2, the Greek word for bodies is somata, which is better translated as the collective sum of who you are—body, mind, and emotions. The J. B. Phillips translation of the Bible translates the phrase “reasonable service” as an “act of intelligent worship.” In other words, when you make a total commitment to “fear God” and “glorify Him” in all you do, giving your mind, body, and emotions to Him, it is an act of intelligent worship. And indeed, in light of God’s judgment, taking heed and obeying is a good idea.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What can you do to make sure you are indeed glorifying God with your body, mind, and emotions?`

` `