---
title:  The Faith of Jesus
date:  19/04/2023
---

#### inVite

“Here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus” (Rev. 14:12). This is the depiction of God’s faithful people in the last days. Yet the only way anyone can keep the commandments of God, then and now, is through the faith of Jesus. Notice our text does not say “faith in Jesus.” Although that, too, is extremely important, this expression, “the faith of Jesus,” is something more. It is the quality of faith that enabled Christ to be victorious over Satan’s fiercest temptations. Faith is a gift given to each believer. When we exercise the faith that the Holy Spirit puts in our hearts, that faith grows. We overcome not by our willpower but by the power of the living Christ working through us. We overcome not because of who we are but because of who He is.

We can overcome because He overcame. We can be victorious because He was victorious. We can triumph over temptation because He triumphed over temptation. Jesus, the divine Son of God, has overcome the wiles of the devil. He faced temptation trusting in the promises of God, surrendering His will to the Father’s and depending on the Father’s power. Trusting Him, looking to Him, believing in Him, we too can be victorious. Jesus is our all in all, and the three angels’ messages are all about Him. Revelation’s message is one of victory, not defeat. It speaks of a people who through His grace and by His power overcome.

The word “overcome” in one form or another is used 11 times in the book of Revelation. In the vision of the seven churches that represent the Christian church from the first century to our time, there are believers in every generation who John says “overcame.” At the end time, those who “overcome” inherit all things (see Rev. 21:7). This is not legalism. It is victory through Jesus Christ, whose perfect life of perfect righteousness and that alone is what gives us the promise of eternal life. It is faith in action. It is transforming, life-changing, miraculous grace in the life of the believer.

Journal:

`Meditate on Revelation 14 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What are things in your life that you desire to overcome?`

`How do you see Jesus differently in light of this week’s lesson?`

` `