---
title:  Overcoming as He Overcame
date:  20/04/2023
---

#### inSight

Unless the sacred word is appreciated, it will not be obeyed as a sure and safe and precious textbook. Every besetting sin must be put away. Warfare must be waged against it until it is overcome. The Lord will work with your efforts. As finite, sinful man works out his own salvation with fear and trembling, it is God who works in him, to will and to do of His own good pleasure. But God will not work without the cooperation of man. He must exercise his powers to the very utmost; he must place himself as an apt, willing student in the school of Christ; and as he accepts the grace that is freely offered to him, the presence of Christ in the thought and in the heart will give him decision of purpose to lay aside every weight of sin, that the heart may be filled with all the fullness of God, and of His love. (Ellen G. White, Fundamentals of Christian Education [Nashville: Southern Publishing Association, 1923], 134.)

Ample provision has been made for all who sincerely, earnestly, and thoughtfully set about the work of perfecting holiness in the fear of God. Strength and grace have been provided through Christ, to be brought by ministering angels to the heirs of salvation. None are so low, so corrupt and vile, that they cannot find in Jesus, who died for them, strength and purity and righteousness, if they will put away their sins, turn from their course of iniquity, and with full purpose of heart seek the living God. He is waiting to take away their stained garments, polluted by sin, and to put upon them the pure robe of His righteousness, to bid them live and not die. In Him, as branches of the Living Vine, they may flourish. Their boughs will not wither nor be fruitless. If they abide in Him, they can draw nourishment from Him, be imbued with His Spirit, walk as He walked, overcome as He overcame, and be exalted to His own right hand. (Ellen G. White, Christian Temperance and Bible Hygiene [Battle Creek, Mich.: Good Health Publishing Company, 1890], 140.)

The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Those who overcome as Christ overcame will need to constantly guard themselves against the temptations of Satan. The appetite and passions should be restricted and under the control of enlightened conscience, that the intellect may be unimpaired, the perceptive powers clear, so that the workings of Satan and his snares may not be interpreted to be the providence of God. Many desire the final reward and victory which are to be given to overcomers, but are not willing to endure toil, privation, and denial of self, as did their Redeemer. It is only through obedience and continual effort that we shall overcome as Christ overcame. (Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church [Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1872], vol. 3, 491.)

Fearing God—how little of it there is! . . . There are those who will be like the men who helped to build the ark. They hear the truth; they have every advantage to become men of moral worth, yet they will not choose the good society, but the corrupt. If there is an influence that is not heavenly, they will gather to their side and unite with them, and although they act a part in the preparation of the truth which is to fit a people to stand in the day of the Lord, they will perish in the general ruin like Noah’s carpenters who helped to build the ark. God help you that you may not be of that class. (Ellen G. White letter 36, 1887, in Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases [Silver Spring, Md.: Ellen G. White Estate, 1993], vol. 18, 261.)

Journal:

`After this week’s study of the passage, what are some honest decisions you are struggling with?`

`What are some honest decisions you must make in your school, family, workplace, and church?`

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`

` `