### Introduction: Renewing the Mind

Life in our world has changed radically in the past few years. The coronavirus pandemic, riots, civil and political unrest, the erosion of the family, and the rise of natural disasters have many people experiencing fear, anxiety, and depression. Mental illness is at an all-time high. Teenage suicide rates are increasing. People are seeking peace and happiness wherever they think they might find it. Sadly, many are seeking in the wrong places and through debilitating avenues. Drug use is out of hand. Promiscuity is now accepted in many places. The happiness being pursued through money, entertainment, addictions, and technology often leads to greater unhappiness.

Here’s the question: can humanity really find happiness and peace? The answer is yes! One key is to remember that we become what we focus on. As mentioned above, what humanity has been focusing on has led only to mental, social, familial, and physical decay. The true answer comes from and lies within the One who created us: God. The solution can be received and experienced through His Holy Spirit.

This quarter is designed to lead you to the One who can give true peace. My desire is to accomplish three things this quarter. The first is to create “brain envy” in you, or instill a deep desire to take good care of the mind God has given you. Second, I would like to equip you to protect your mind from destructive patterns and influences. Finally, I want to inspire you to engage in consistent healthy brain habits.

This quarter’s lessons offer you an opportunity to learn how to experience a renewal of life through renewing the mind. My greatest hope is that my readers will apply what they learn so they can go from just understanding to actually experiencing a lasting life of joy. The choice is ours! In Christ, we can truly experience a God who is “able to make all grace abound toward you, that you, always having all sufficiency in all things, may have an abundance for every good work” (2 Cor. 9:8). God is eager and waiting to “fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit” (Rom. 15:13).

I am a Christian counselor, pastor, husband, and father of four children as well as a human being who daily needs God’s grace to help me get up when I fall and to help me live life in a consistently Christian manner. I am your fellow companion on this journey. In my past, I couldn’t stop my automatic negative thoughts from getting out of control and ruining my day. At times, this led to depression. Thank God—I am not who I used to be! I have more good days than bad days now. My anxiety and fears do not overcome me like they used to. Each day, I see more and more that God’s grace can be the transforming power in my life, giving me joy, hope, and the strength to abound in every good work. As we apply what we learn together this quarter, my prayer is that God will help us experience a dynamic renewing of our minds. It’s my hope that God, through His Spirit, will give each one of us the true spirit of love, power, and a sound mind (2 Tim. 1:7).

Here on this journey with you,\
_David Guerrero_