---
title: Seek Me and Find Me  
date:  22/11/2021
---

All through the Bible we find evidence of God’s foreknowledge. That is, He knows beforehand all that will happen. Whether the rise and fall of world empires (Daniel 7) or individual actions just hours before they occur—“ ‘Assuredly, I say to you that this night, before the rooster crows, you will deny Me three times’ ” (Matt. 26:34, NKJV)—the Lord knows the end from the beginning. His foreknowledge, even of our free choices, has no bearing whatsoever on the freedom of those choices.

Thus, the Lord knew, even before He brought the children of Israel into the land, what they would do when in the land.

`Read Deuteronomy 4:25–28. What did the Lord say that the people would do after they had been in the land promised them?`

In the verses before, the Lord tells them specifically not to make idols and not to worship them (Deut. 4:15–20). Yet, the following verses pretty much say that making idols and worshiping them is exactly what they are going to do, despite all the warnings.

Notice that in Deuteronomy 4:25 Moses is clear that it won’t happen immediately. After all that they just had experienced, they weren’t likely to fall into idolatry right away. However, over time, after a generation or so, the tendency to “forget” (Deut. 4:9) what the Lord had done for them, and what He had warned them against, would lead them to do exactly what He warned against.

`Read Deuteronomy 4:29–31. What does the Lord say He will do for them in this specific situation?`

God’s grace is amazing. Even after they fall into the horrific evil of idolatry, even after they have received the due consequences of their sins, if they turn to the Lord, He will forgive them and restore them. In short, if they freely choose to repent, He will accept their repentance.

The word in Deuteronomy 4:30, often translated “turn,” really means “to return.” That is, they are going back to the Lord, to where they were supposed to have been all along. The Hebrew word teshuvah, from that same root word for “to return,” means “repentance.”

Thus, at the core, whatever else is involved in repentance, it is a return to God after we have been separated from Him by our sins.---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The exercise of force is contrary to the principles of God’s government; He desires only the service of love; and love cannot be commanded; it cannot be won by force or authority. Only by love is love awakened. To know God is to love Him; His character must be manifested in contrast to the character of Satan. . . .<br/>
The plan for our redemption was not an afterthought, a plan formulated after the fall of Adam. It was a revelation of “the mystery which hath been kept in silence through times eternal.” Romans 16:25, R. V. It was an unfolding of the principles that from eternal ages have been the foundation of God’s throne. From the beginning, God and Christ knew of the apostasy of Satan, and of the fall of man through the deceptive power of the apostate. God did not ordain that sin should exist, but He foresaw its existence, and made provision to meet the terrible emergency. So great was His love for the world, that He covenanted to give His only-begotten Son, “that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life.” John 3:16.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 22.

Jesus knows the circumstances of every soul. You may say, I am sinful, very sinful. You may be; but the worse you are, the more you need Jesus. He turns no weeping, contrite one away. He does not tell to any all that He might reveal, but He bids every trembling soul take courage. Freely will He pardon all who come to Him for forgiveness and restoration. . . .<br/>
The souls that turn to Him for refuge, Jesus lifts above the accusing and the strife of tongues. No man or evil angel can impeach these souls. Christ unites them to His own divine-human nature. They stand beside the great Sin Bearer, in the light proceeding from the throne of God. “Who shall lay anything to the charge of God’s elect? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea rather, that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us.” Romans 8:33, 34.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 568.

The prayer that comes from an earnest heart, when the simple wants of the soul are expressed, as we would ask an earthly friend for a favor, expecting it to be granted—this is the prayer of faith. God does not desire our ceremonial compliments, but the unspoken cry of the heart broken and subdued with a sense of its sin and utter weakness finds its way to the Father of all mercy. . . .<br/>
. . . [God’s] command to Israel was, “Rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto the Lord your God.” Joel 2:13. . . .<br/>
. . . Repentance is turning from self to Christ; and when we receive Christ so that through faith He can live His life in us, good works will be manifest.—_Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, pp. 86, 87.