---
title:  Teshuvah
date:  23/11/2021
---

All through the book of Deuteronomy, a key theme appears: obey the Lord and be blessed, disobey and you will suffer the consequences. It’s no different in the New Testament. “Do not be deceived, God is not mocked; for whatever a man sows, that he will also reap. For he who sows to his flesh will of the flesh reap corruption, but he who sows to the Spirit will of the Spirit reap everlasting life” (Gal. 6:7, 8, NKJV).

Unfortunately, at least after the Fall, sin seems as easy and as natural as breathing. And despite all the warnings and promises—“ ‘For this commandment which I command you today is not too mysterious for you, nor is it far off’ ” (Deut. 30:11, NKJV)—many of the people did precisely that: they fell into the sins that God had warned them about.

And yet, even then, God was willing to take them back if, using their free will, free choice, they repented and returned to Him.

`Read again Deuteronomy 30:1–10. What is the Lord saying He will do for His people, despite all the wrong that they have done? What, though, is the condition upon which these wonderful promises rest?`

The idea is simple and straightforward: if you mess up, terrible consequences will result for you and your family. That’s what sin does. However, even then, you can repent, and the Lord will take you back and bless you.

Numerous times the same Hebrew root word behind teshuvah appears in these verses. In Deuteronomy 30:2, the text says “ ‘and you return to the Lord your God’ ” (NKJV, emphasis supplied); in Deuteronomy 30:8, though it is often translated, and correctly so, “you will again obey the voice of the Lord” (NKJV, emphasis supplied), it could be translated literally, “And you return and obey the voice of the Lord.” Finally, in Deuteronomy 30:10, where it reads “ ‘and if you turn to the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul’ ” (NKJV, emphasis supplied), again the word “turn” is really “return.”

In other words, despite all that happened to them, despite their utter violation and breaking of the covenant, the Lord was not through with these people, and if they didn’t want Him to be through with them, they could manifest that desire by repentance.

`Though dealing with the nation as a whole, how do these texts, despite the different context from ours today, still reflect the reality of how central true repentance is to us as believers who, at times, violate the covenant we have made with God, as well?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Satan is constantly working to lead men to deny the light. It is but a step from the straightforward path to a diverging one, in which Satan leads the way, and where light is all darkness, and darkness light. It is a dangerous thing to open the heart to unbelief, for it drives the Spirit of God away from the heart, and Satan’s suggestions come in. We must avoid the first admission of doubt and unbelief.<br/>
“Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.” Galatians 6:7. God destroys no man. Every man who is destroyed will destroy himself. When a man stifles the admonitions of conscience, he sows the seeds of unbelief and these produce a sure harvest.—_Our High Calling_, p. 26.

All who study the Word with full purpose to cleanse away from the life all sin, and who search the Scriptures to learn what is truth, will welcome the truth of the Word as a Thus saith the Lord. They will repent under the sharp reproofs of Bible truth. If a man sow true repentance he will reap the reward of sound good works. If he continues in the faith he reaps peace. If he becomes sanctified and cleansed from his appetite for cheapness and folly he shall reap righteousness and perfect love. A continuance in the well doing in overcoming makes him a daily victor because he keeps the mark of Christ’s perfection ever before him.—_That I May Know Him_, p. 281.

God will not be mocked. A departure from Him has been and always will be followed by its sure results. The commission of acts that displease God will, unless decidedly repented of and forsaken, instead of seeking to justify them, lead the evildoer on step by step in deception, till many sins are committed with impunity. All who would possess a character that would make them laborers together with God and receive the commendation of God must separate themselves from the enemies of God, and maintain the truth which Christ gave to John [the revelator] to give to the world.—_The Upward Look_, p. 310.

After Adam and Eve had eaten of the forbidden fruit, they were filled with a sense of shame and terror. At first their only thought was how to excuse their sin and escape the dreaded sentence of death. . . . The spirit of self-justification originated in the father of lies and has been exhibited by all the sons and daughters of Adam. Confessions of this order are not inspired by the divine Spirit and will not be acceptable to God. True repentance will lead a man to bear his guilt himself and acknowledge it without deception or hypocrisy. Like the poor publican, not lifting up so much as his eyes unto heaven, he will cry, “God be merciful to me a sinner,” and those who do acknowledge their guilt will be justified, for Jesus will plead His blood in behalf of the repentant soul.—_Steps to Christ_, p. 40.