---
title:  The Personality of the Holy Spirit
date:   21/01/2017
---

### The Personality of the Holy Spirit

### Read for This Week’s Study:
John 16:13, 14; Rom. 8:14–16; Rom. 15:13; John 14:6; John 17:17; Rom. 5:5.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, He will teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you’ ” (John 14:26, NASB). 

Because the Holy Spirit is occasionally depicted in the Bible in impersonal terms, such as wind or fire, some have concluded that He is impersonal, a type of divine power. In their view, He is more like an electric current that empowers us rather than existing as a personal Being. But the question is not whether some passages can be brought forward that denote more impersonal operations or influences of the Holy Spirit. The question is whether there are numerous portions of Scripture that positively do establish His personality.

There are texts, and we need to take them into consideration in order to gain a more complete picture of who the Holy Spirit is. 

This week we will learn more about the personality of the Holy Spirit as He is described in Scripture. This truth will help us better understand the role of God’s divine Spirit in our lives. And it will help us to gain a deeper understanding of the importance of the belief in the personality of the Holy Spirit for our spiritual life. Only when we entertain right thoughts about Him can we render to Him that love, reverence, confidence, and submission that are due to Him. 

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, January 28._

<div style="background:#b9ebfb; padding: 20px;">
  <div onclick="document.getElementById('important-message').style.display = 'block';document.getElementById('show').style.display = 'none';document.getElementById('hide').style.display = 'block';" id="show"><span>+</span> Important Message</div>
  <div onclick="document.getElementById('important-message').style.display = 'none';document.getElementById('show').style.display = 'block';document.getElementById('hide').style.display = 'none';" id="hide" style="display:none"><span>-</span> Important Message</div>
  
  <div id="important-message" style="display:none">
  <p>Dear brothers and sisters,</p>
  
  <p>With great disappointment I would like to inform that Portuguese Publishing House (Publicadora SerVir) reached out to us and threatened with legal sanctions if we keep providing Portuguese Sabbath School lessons in our application.</p>
  
  <p>It is extremely sad that too witness our own church entities doing it. But it is the reality of the world we live in, and has been prophesied long time ago (Ephesians 6:12) – and many of our church leaders are blind to the true evangelism and has only one focus – money. Greed has overtaken their minds and conscience and it is not anything new, as it has been seen before (Matthew 21:12).</p>
  
  <p>Mission of Adventech ministry is to glorify God through technology.</p>
  <p>Mission of Adventech is to unite our Adventist church through technology.</p>
  <p>Mission of Adventech is to use technology to bring Good News to this world and see Jesus Coming Again!</p>
  
  <p>To date, our Sabbath School application is providing lessons in English, Spanish, German, French, Russian, Ukrainian, Turkish and Japanese. It has over 300 000 installations. It is completely free of charge and that will never change. It is completely ad free and that will never change. Lesson is never modified from its source and that will never change. Adventech will continue doing everything possible to help brothers and sisters around the world read, study use Sabbath School. We will continue adding more languages to our application. We will continue to add more functionality and improve usability. Adventech will continue bringing talent together to create, innovate and deliver. Adventech will be building more applications!</p>
  
  <p>At this point Adventech ministry and me personally are praying for the guidance of the Holy Spirit, for if God is for us, who can be against us? (Romans 8:31). We do not support revolution or anything like that, but rely on God only – Romans 12:19. It is possible that more publishing houses will take path similar to Publicadora SerVir and Casa Publicadora Brasiliera – and try to stop our ministry.</p>
  
  <p>Because of that: we ask for your support in prayers! We ask for your support in prayers with your pastors! We ask for your support in prayers with your friends! We ask for your support in prayers with church leaders! We ask for your support in prayers for above mentioned publishing houses! We ask for your support in prayers to Jesus Christ!</p>
  
  <p>May God bless you all for the support.</p>
  
  <p>-Vitaliy</p>
  </div>
</div>