---
title:  Jesus, Our Shepherd, Leads Us
date:  25/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Psalm 23:1; Isaiah 40:11; Jeremiah 23:3, 4; Ezekiel 34:12; John 10:14–16.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “He restores [makes new] my strength. He leads me on right paths to show that he is good” (Psalm 23:3, ERV).

IN TEARS, SOPHIE FELL on her bedroom floor. “How can he do this to me?” she asked herself in pain. Her tears splashed down her cheeks. Sophie just learned some bad news. Someone was telling awful lies about her. Worse, this person was her friend. At least, Sophie thought he was her friend. Sophie trusted him. She respected him. But now he told awful stories about Sophie to ruin her good name and destroy her work. Sophie picked up her Bible from her bed and let it fall open in her lap. After she wiped away her tears, she saw a verse she read many times in the past: “He restores [makes new] my strength. He leads me on right paths [roads] to show that he is good. Even [but] if I walk through a valley [a time of suffering or trouble] as dark as the grave, I will not be afraid of any danger, because you are with me. Your rod [Shepherd’s pole] and staff [walking stick] comfort me” (Psalm 23:3, 4, ERV).

Sophie believed that God was talking to her in this verse. But the Bible truth was hard for her to accept. Yes, the Shepherd in Psalm 23 leads His sheep on the right roads. But sometimes the road is rough. Sometimes the Shepherd leads us into a “dark valley.” But that’s how God works. He uses the dark valley to teach us how to be holy.