---
title:  'The Shepherd: A Guide For Our Journey'
date:  26/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“The Lordord is my shepherd. He gives me everything I need” (Psalm 23:1, NIrV).

A teacher asked a group of children to draw a picture of God. All the children drew a heart somewhere in their picture. Then the teacher asked the children why they all drew a heart. All the children answered at the same time: “Because God is love!” The answer is that simple.

We have no trouble thinking the best about God when things are good in life, right? But as we grow older, life becomes harder and more difficult. Our view about God often changes. Of course, God Himself does not change (Hebrews 13:8; James 1:17). But we do.

So, we always need to remember how much God loves us and cares for us. Psalm 23 teaches us that we can always trust the love of God. Why? Because God’s love also never changes. God is our loving Shepherd. The Bible uses the shepherd as a word picture to teach us how much Jesus cares for us. Before we look at Psalm 23, let’s first look at what different Bible writers say about our Shepherd.

**What do you learn about the Shepherd from the verses below?**

`Isaiah 40:11`

`Jeremiah 23:3, 4`

`Ezekiel 34:12`

`John 10:14–16`

`1 Peter 2:25`

`Now turn to Psalm 23:2–6. What does Jesus, our Shepherd, in Psalm 23, do to take care of His sheep?`

What does it mean to you to know that Jesus, our Shepherd, cares for you? What if someone you know has a hard time with faith because of everything that he or she suffers? How can you use this picture of our Shepherd to comfort this person who suffers much?