---
title:  Good Roads 
date:  27/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“He leads me on right [good] paths [roads] to show that he is good” (Psalm 23:3, ERV).

Psalm 23 shows us how our journey in life is the same as a road. For sure, God leads us on the best roads possible. But does that mean that our trip always will be easy? Make a picture in your mind of the “right [good] paths [roads]” (Psalm 23:3, ERV) that God chooses for us. Sometimes we can’t see where the road ends. But you already know that your home with God in heaven is at the end of the road. What else do you see on the road? Do you see where the road will go? No. You can see only a few places along the road. Other parts of the road are hidden. Sometimes the road disappears over the top of a high hill. Some parts of the road are easy for you to walk down. Other parts of the road are full of rough areas. In the same way, Israel had a hard time with faith when they traveled from Egypt to the Promised Land.

`Read Psalm 23. In Psalm 23, David talks about some of the difficult places that the sheep must go through on their way to see God. What are some of these difficult places?`

To help us answer the question, let us start by asking one more question: Why does David name the roads the “right [good] paths [roads]” (Psalm 23:3, ERV)? Here are four important reasons: (1) These roads are good because they go in the right direction. They lead the sheep to the Shepherd’s home. (2) The roads are good because they help us follow the same life as our Shepherd. (3) The roads are good because they train us to behave the same as the Shepherd behaves. (4) The roads are good because they help us to praise the Lord and honor Him. So, the roads with Jesus our Shepherd are good for us to travel when the roads are easy and when the roads are hard.

When God leads us, He trains us to be holy. God guides us and protects us while He teaches us. God leads us because He is teaching us to be a holy people.

`How can hard times or your experience of suffering help you show the love of God to other people?`