---
title:  'When God Leads Us In Ways We Don’t Expect: Part 1'
date:  28/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Even [but] if I walk through a valley [a time of suffering or trouble] as dark as the grave, I will not be afraid of any danger, because you are with me. Your rod [Shepherd’s pole] and staff [walking stick] comfort me” (Psalm 23:4, ERV).

What if we traveled only on roads that were next to cool streams and green grass? Cool water and nice weather would help our journey to be easy, right? But David says that life is not always easy. The road of life is next to the “valley” that’s as dark as the grave. The valley is a word picture for suffering or trouble. No one wants to visit it! In Bible times and now, the valleys in Israel often flooded with water. These valleys are not very wide. There are tall mountains on each side that block out the light. That’s why David names the place in his poem the “valley as dark as the grave” (Psalm 23:4, ERV).

Think about the times you’ve been in your own “valley [a time of suffering or trouble] as dark as the grave” (Psalm 23:4, ERV). Share your experience with the class. Were you afraid? Did you remember that Jesus, the Shepherd, was there with you? Which Bible verses were the most precious to you at that time? Why?

`How do you think the sheep end up in the valley? Do you think the sheep find the valley on their own? Or does the Shepherd lead the sheep to the valley Himself? Explain.`

“A lamb in the valley as dark as the grave may think that the Shepherd led him the wrong way. But this thought is false. The lamb must travel that dark valley. Why? So, he will learn not to fear. The Shepherd is always with the lamb.”—Elisabeth Elliot, Quest for Love (Grand Rapids, MI: Revell Books, 1996), page 218, adapted.

`Have you ever felt that the Lord led you the wrong way? When God, our Shepherd, leads us in a new and strange way, we may misunderstand Him. Why do you think that God allows our misunderstanding?`