---
title:  'When God Leads Us In Ways We Don’t Expect: Part 2'
date:  29/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“You prepared [made] a meal for me in front of my enemies. You welcomed me as an honored guest. My cup is full and spilling over” (Psalm 23:5, ERV).

Sad to say, we have enemies in this life. How do you feel about your enemies? Do you think about how you can hurt the people who hurt you or destroyed your work? Christians often have a hard time deciding what they should do about their enemies.

`Who are your enemies? What did you say to the person who tried to hurt you or your loved ones? Did you think about Jesus’ words to us in Matthew 5:44 or the words of Paul in Romans 12:18–21?`

In Psalm 23:5, David shows us how to behave with our enemies. David does not think about the bad things his enemies did to him in the past. No, David thinks about all the wonderful things God is doing for him right now.

In the time of David, a host did something very special for a guest that he wanted to honor. When the guest arrived, the host poured oil on the guest’s head before he went to the feast hall. The oil was a mix of olive oil and perfume. Then the host led the guest to a seat at a table. In front of the guest was more food than he can eat.

In Psalm 23:5, David talks about the table, oil, and a cup. How do these three things help us remember that God always takes care of our needs?

Paul tells us, “Our fight is not with people. [Our fight] is against the leaders and the powers and the spirits of darkness in this world. [Our fight] is against the demon world [government] that works in the heavens [skies]” (Ephesians 6:12, NLV). So, we have enemies we see, and enemies we don’t see. They are all around us everywhere. But when we’re with our Shepherd, Jesus, no one can steal the blessings that He gives us.

`What did the Shepherd do for you when your enemies were all around you? How can your answer help you to remember to give thanks during the difficult times ahead?`