---
title:  A Promise For The Journey 
date:  30/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“I am sure that your goodness [mercy] and love will follow me all the days of my life. And I will live in the house of the Lord forever [a long, long time]” (Psalm 23:6, NIrV).

When bad things happen to us, we may feel that God has left us alone. We may believe that God is not doing very much for us. Because we are in trouble, we think that God doesn’t care about us. But David doesn’t feel this way.

`David has some hard times in life. But what two things does David say in Psalm 23:6 that he’s sure about? (Also read Ephesians 1:4; 2 Peter 1:10; and Hebrews 11:13–15.)`

In Psalm 23:6, NIrV, the verb written as “follow” is much stronger in the Hebrew language. This Hebrew word “live” is the same as “to chase” someone. How does “live” or “chase” help us understand God’s love and mercy? God loves us so much that His love and mercy are the same as people who run in a race. God’s love and mercy “chase” us the same as runners. We cannot escape God’s love and mercy. They will “chase” after us. When God’s love and mercy “catch” us, they will stay with us all the days of our lives. (Look at Genesis 14:14; Joshua 10:19; and 1 Samuel 25:29. Do you see how these verses show us the idea of “chasing” after something?)

`God’s love and mercy are the same as fast runners. Make a picture in your mind of God chasing after you. Why do you think David uses this word picture? What do you think David wants us to understand about God and His love for us?`

At times, life will be hard. People may hurt us or work against us. We may doubt God’s love for us at these times. We may wonder if God is really leading us. During these difficult times, we must remember Jesus. When He was on the cross, Jesus had strong faith in God’s love. This trust helped Jesus stay strong while He hung on the cross. If these thoughts helped Jesus, they can help us, too.

There are times when our family and friends ask us questions. In Psalm 23:6, David shows us the best way to answer them. Don’t argue. Just share your personal belief in Bible truth about God.