---
title:  Further Thought
date:  01/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Missionaries in the Home,” page 143, in Testimonies for the Church, volume 4; “The Divine Shepherd,” pages 476–484, in The Desire of Ages.

“How will we finally win the war against sin? We will have difficult tests and experiences in our religious life. But we must not stop trusting in God. Our difficult tests and experiences are part of our education in the ‘school of Jesus Christ.’ Jesus uses these tests and experiences to make our hearts clean from sin. So, we must stay strong when we are attacked by Satan. Satan will say awful things to us to discourage us. But we must not give up. We must not fall into the traps that Satan makes for us along the way. . . .

“Do not look at your problems. Keep looking to God. Then you will not faint when troubles come. You will soon see Jesus reaching His hand to help you. Give Him your hand in trust. Let Jesus lead you. Then you will grow in trust. Soon your heart will fill with hope.

“You will find the help you need in Jesus. He will help you to become as He is. He will give you a perfect and holy heart that is filled with His love. Satan can’t put out the light that shines from the heart of this person. . . . God gave us His best gift. He gave us His only Son, Jesus. Jesus brings us back to God. Jesus gives us His own perfect life so that we can live with God in heaven.”—Ellen G. White, Messages to Young People, pages 63, 64, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“Our difficult tests and experiences are part of our education in the ‘school of Jesus Christ.’ ” Share a story from your own life about a time when you had a difficult test or experience. What did the experience teach you?`

`How can we help Jesus to comfort and encourage other people? How is this work part of God’s plan to help other people in their time of suffering and need? What things can you do as a church to help people who are in need?`

`How has God’s love and mercy “chased” you and your friends at church? What can you learn from each other’s experiences?`