---
title:  Paul in Rome
date:   30/09/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Romans 15:20–27; Acts 28:17–31; Philippians 1:12; Romans 1:7.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “First, I thank my God through [by] Jesus Christ for all of you. People all over the world  [earth] are talking about your faith” (Romans 1:8, NIrV).

_It is important_ for us as we study Romans to understand the things happening in history at the time Paul wrote his letter. So, we should ask, What problems did the church face? And what was happening in the government of the Roman Empire [Kingdom]? Answers to these questions are important. They help us understand the Bible better. So, let us begin by searching for answers from Romans itself about the things that were happening in Paul’s day. In chapter 1, we discover that Paul wrote to the Roman Christians at a special time and for a very clear reason. When we learn this reason, we will understand the book of Romans better. 

What if you had been a member of the church at Rome during the 1st century? How wonderful it would have been to read Paul’s letter to the church after he first wrote it! Let us study Romans with the same careful attention that a member of the church at Rome would have given to Paul’s words. After all, the Holy Spirit gave Paul his message. 

Many hundreds of years have passed since Paul wrote Romans to answer the question, How is a person saved? So, we might ask, What meaning do Paul’s words have for us today? Plenty, as we shall see. Just as Paul’s words had meaning for Martin Luther hundreds of years after Paul first wrote them.