---
title:  Paul’s letter
date:   01/10/2017
---

_Acts 18:23_

_What city was a New Testament writer living in when he wrote his letter?_ This question is important. It helps us to find out when a letter of the Bible was written. Paul traveled a lot. So, knowing where he was at a certain time gives us a hint about the date when his letter was written.

Romans 16:1, 2 shows that Paul might have written his letter in the city of Cenchreae (Ken-kree-EYE). Cenchreae was a Greek city near Corinth. But Paul also talks about a woman named Phoebe. Phoebe lived in Corinth. So, Paul’s mention of Phoebe in Romans 16:1 might make Corinth the place where Paul wrote Romans.  

Paul started the church at Corinth on his second trip to spread the Good News about Jesus. This trip lasted from a.d. 49–52 (read Acts 18:1–18). Paul made a third trip from a.d. 53–58. He visited Greece again at that time (Acts 20:2, 3). He collected money for poor believers in Jerusalem near the end of that trip (Romans 15:25, 26). So, Paul could have written the book of Romans in the early months of a.d. 58. 

`As shown in Acts 18:23, what other churches did Paul visit on his third trip to spread the Good News?` 

Paul visited the Galatian churches on his third trip to spread the Good News. There, he learned that false teachers tricked the Galatians into believing lies. Paul was afraid these false teachers also might go to Rome and spread their lies there. So, Paul wrote a letter to the Romans to stop the same thing from happening in Rome. 

“Paul writes out the important truths about the Good News in his letter to the Romans. He talks about the hopes and promises that once belonged to the Jews. But now those blessings were offered to the Gentiles [Gentiles are non-Jews].” —Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders and Teachers], page 373, adapted.

Remember, it is important when we study any book of the Bible to know why it was written. So, it is important for us in our study of Romans to know about the problems that were causing trouble in the Jewish and Gentile churches. In next week’s lesson, we will look at those problems.

`What problems are causing trouble in your church right now? What are you doing to help solve them?`