---
title:  Paul’s wish to visit Rome
date:   02/10/2017
---

_Romans 15:20–27_

It is true that the best way to communicate most of the time is in person. We can phone, e-mail, text, or even Skype. But face-to-face and person-to-person is the best way to communicate. That is why Paul announced in his letter to the Romans that he wanted to see them in person. He wanted them to know he was coming, and why.

`What reasons does Paul give in Romans 15:20–27 for not visiting Rome earlier? What made Paul decide to come to Rome when he did? How important to Paul was serving God? And how important was serving God to Paul’s reasons for visiting Rome? What can we learn from Paul about serving God and sharing the Good News with other people? What important truth does Paul share in Romans 15:27 about Jews and non-Jews?`

God chose Paul to be His missionary. A missionary is someone who takes the Good News about Jesus to new places. Paul was God’s missionary to the Gentiles. Gentiles were non-Jews. Paul felt a strong desire to take the Good News to new places. Paul let other people preach the Good News in places where the message already had been preached. In those days, Christianity was still a new religion. There were very few missionaries and teachers to help preach the truth. So, it would have been a waste of time for Paul to work in places where the Good News already had been preached. Paul said, “I have always wanted to preach the good news where Christ was not known. I [do not] want to build on what someone else has started” (Romans 15:20, NIrV). Paul’s plan was to take the message to places where it had not gone before so that “ ‘those who were not told about him [Jesus] will understand’ ” (Romans 15:21, NIrV).

Paul did not plan to stay in Rome for long. Instead, Paul wanted to take the message to Spain. Paul hoped to get the Christians in Rome to support his trip there. 

`Paul asked the church for help to take God’s message to a new place. What important lesson can we learn from this fact?`

`Read Romans 15:20–27 again. Notice in these verses how much Paul wanted to work for God and to serve people. Why do you work for God? How much is your heart filled with a desire to serve other people?`