---
title:  Paul in Rome
date:   03/10/2017
---

_Acts 28:17–31_

`“When we got to Rome, Paul was allowed to live by himself. But a soldier guarded him” (Acts 28:16, NIrV). What happened to Paul when he finally came to Rome? Often things happen to us that we do not want or expect. What does this verse teach us about what we should do when bad things happen to us without any warning?` 

Paul finally arrived in Rome. But he arrived as a prisoner. Paul’s arrival under guard teaches us that even our best plans do not always turn out as we might want or hope for. 

But before he was made a prisoner, Paul reached Jerusalem at the end of his third trip to spread the Good News to new places. Paul arrived in Rome with money he collected for the poor. Paul collected this money from the churches in Europe and Asia Minor. But something happened to Paul that he did not expect. He was arrested. Then he was held prisoner for two years in Caesarea. Paul asked that his case be taken before Caesar himself. Three years passed after Paul’s arrest. Then Paul arrived in Rome. But Paul’s arrival was not at all how he first planned when he first wrote to the Roman Church about visiting them.  

`What does Acts 28:17–31 tell us about Paul’s time in Rome? What lesson can we learn from these verses?`

“It was not Paul’s preaching that got the attention of the people who worked for, and lived in, the palace of Caesar. Instead, it was Paul’s chains. Paul broke free many people from the chains that held them in slavery to sin. Paul did this work when he was a prisoner himself. But he did more than free people from sin. Paul announced, 

“ ‘ And because I am a prisoner, most of the believers have become bolder [stronger] in the Lord. They now dare even more to preach the good news without fear.’ Philippians 1:14 [NIrV].”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders], page 464, adapted. 

`How often have you experienced something you did not expect or want to happen? Let us hope everything turned out for good in the end (read Philippians 1:12). So, how does your faith grow stronger from such an experience? How can hard times teach you to trust God more in the difficult times ahead?`