---
title:  The Holy ones in Rome
date:   04/10/2017
---

_Romans 1:7_

`Paul says to the church in Rome: “You are loved by God and appointed [chosen] to be his holy people” (Romans 1:7, NIrV). What does this verse teach us about truth, faith, and God?`

**“Loved by God” (NIrV).** It is true that God loves everyone. But God loves in a special way the people who choose to serve Him. These people have accepted God’s love. We find this same law of love rules in life around us. We love in a special way the people who love us. There is the same love shown between us and the people who love us back. Love needs to be shown love. Our love must get an answer of love for the love we give. But what if our love does not get any love for the love we give? Then our love might be limited in how it shows itself to the people we love.

**“Appointed [chosen] to be [God’s] holy people” (NIrV).** The wording “holy people” comes from the Greek word hagioi. Hagioi means “holy ones” or “saints.” “Holy” means “chosen for a special purpose.” So, a holy person, or a saint, is one whom God has “chosen.” This person might be far from perfect and have a lot of spiritual growing to do. But this person has chosen Jesus to be the Lord of his or her life. This choice is what the Bible means by a “holy person,” or “saint.”

`Paul says that the Christians in Rome were “appointed [chosen]” by God” (Romans 1:7, NIrV). Does Paul mean that God does not choose some people? How does Ephesians 1:4 help us understand Paul’s meaning?`

The great news is that Jesus died for everyone. So, God chose everyone “to be his holy people” (Romans 1:7, NIrV) before the earth was made. God’s plan was for all people to be saved. The final fire of hell was meant only for the devil and his angels (Matthew 25:41). Some people will not accept God’s gift. But their refusing God’s offer does not make His gift less special. 

`God chose to save you. What a special gift! So, why let anything hold you back from accepting that gift?`