---
title:  The believers in Rome
date:   05/10/2017
---

_Romans 1:8_

No one knows exactly how the church in Rome was started. Stories handed down from the early days of the church say that Peter or Paul started the church. But there is no proof that these stories are true. Maybe the church was started by people who accepted the message preached in Jerusalem on the Day of Pentecost (Acts 2). Pentecost was the time when Jesus gave His followers the special blessing He promised them from the Holy Spirit. Or maybe, after that time, some people accepted Jesus and moved to Rome. There in Rome, these Christians could have witnessed about their faith and started the church.

Thirty years or more passed after Pentecost. But the church in Rome was not visited during that time by any of the apostles. Apostles were chosen by Jesus to be leaders in the church. What is amazing is that so many people knew about the church in Rome before any leader went there. 

The word “faith” in Romans 1:8 can include the idea of loyalty to God. So, Paul is saying that the church members at Rome were loyal to the new way of life they found in Jesus. 

`Read Romans 15:14. As shown to us in this verse, how does Paul describe the church in Rome?`

Here are three things Paul praises about the spiritual experience of the Roman Christians:

1. The Roman Christians were “full of goodness” (Romans 15:14, NIrV). Can people say the same thing about us?
2. The Roman Christians were “filled with knowledge” (Romans 15:14, NIrV). Again and again, the Bible says wisdom, understanding, and knowledge are important. Christians are told to study their Bibles to be wise. “In Ezekiel 36:26, God tells His people, ‘I will give you new hearts’ [NIrV]. What does God mean by these words? God means, ‘I will give you new minds.’ A change of heart always comes with a clear understanding of Christian duty and truth.”—Ellen G. White, My Life Today, page 24, adapted. 
3. The Roman Christians were “able to teach one another” (Romans 15:14, NIrV). This verse hints at the truth that we should not separate ourselves from other believers. We will fail to grow in our spiritual lives if we do. So, we need to encourage other believers. And we need other believers to encourage us.