---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   06/10/2017
---

“God’s desire to save us did not come from a careless plan He threw together at the last minute after we sinned. No. God made a careful plan to save us before He ever made our earth (1 Corinthians 2:7; Ephesians 1:3, 13). God’s plan to save humans comes from His everlasting love for us (Jeremiah 31:3).

“God’s plan to save us covers the past, the present, and the future. What does this plan include? (1) This plan includes the blessings of being chosen to be God’s holy people and the blessings of our being made new by faith in Jesus. (2) God’s plan includes our being saved and forgiven. (3) God’s plan includes the truth that all things are one in Jesus. (4) God’s plan includes the sealing. The sealing is the special work that the Holy Spirit does to make God’s people holy and to get them ready to live with God in heaven. (5) God’s plan to save us also includes the reward of everlasting life that God gives to us at the Second Coming. And (6) God’s plan includes the gift of new bodies and spirits that will never die. At the center of this plan is the suffering and death of Jesus. Jesus’ death was not an accident of history. And Jesus’ death did not happen because we chose for God to die. Instead, Jesus’ death was a part of God’s plan to save us (Acts 4:27, 28). Jesus was, in truth, ‘the Lamb . . . whose death was planned before the earth was created [made]’ [Revelation 13:8, NIrV].”—The Handbook of Seventh-day Adventist Theology [Study of God] (Hagerstown, Md.: Review and Herald® Publishing Association, 2000), pages 275, 276, adapted. 

**Discussion questions:**

`1. How would life be different without the Protestant Reformation? The Protestant Reformation was a time when people began to “wake up” to Bible truths. The Reformation began in the 1500s. Its purpose was to change the Roman Catholic Church for the better. Later, that change led to the start of the Protestant churches.`

`2. God chose us to be saved before He ever made the earth (read also Titus 1:1, 2; 2 Timothy 1:8, 9). Why should we find this truth encouraging? What does this truth tell us about God’s love for all people?  Why is it sad when people turn away from the gift that God freely offers them?`

`3. What can your class do to help improve how others think of your church?`