---
title:  How Is It Working for the Royal Household?
date:   08/04/2017
---

### How Is It Working for the Royal Household?

2 Cor. 5:20

Have you ever thought of what it is like working for the royal household in the British monarchy? The primary duties of the royal household are to provide advice and assistance to the queen to enable her to offer the best service to the nation and its people.

The royal household employs nearly 1,200 staff selected from various professions with a wide range of skills. Some are marketers, some gardeners, and others culinary artists. There are secretaries, physicians, and more.

**Christians also have a duty to perform as members of the royal priesthood.**

The employees of the royal household are expected to appreciate the importance and value of social and environmental issues. The queen and members of the royal family contribute a lot to the community. By the same token, the employees are encouraged to emulate the royal example and cultivate action and responsibility in community development.

Christians also have a duty to perform as members of the royal priesthood.

Christian living is about letting your light shine in the dark world and illuminating lives and communities that have not accepted Christ as Savior. The Bible explains that we are ambassadors of Christ, and everything we do must conform to the principles of God’s covenant. By accepting to be assimilated into the family of Christ through baptism, we become dead to sin and embrace a new life as members of God’s household (Rom. 6:1–4).

As a member of the royal household adopts the policies, strategies, and instructions for service in the queen’s territory, so Christians are to adopt kingdom principles to become representatives of Christ on earth. Our morals, diet, and overall lifestyle must be a reflection of what Christ would do in our situation. Think of yourself as a member of the royal priesthood, the chosen people who, through their standard of living, must reveal Christ to the world.

This week we study about how we can live as a chosen generation and God’s own people (1 Pet. 2:9). In the following days, we shall discover how we can execute our responsibility and high calling to be members of the royal household of Christ. Regardless of where we come from, our skin color, or our gender, we are all members of the royal priesthood through Christ. We may not belong to the ancient tribe of Israel; but through the saving grace of Christ, we now belong to the family. We must therefore share in His promises and advance the cause of heaven even as we wait for His second coming.

_Eric Onyango, Nairobi, Kenya_