---
title:  Steps to Christian Living
date:   09/04/2017
---

### Steps to Christian Living

Gen. 15:18–21; 17:1–27; Exod. 2:24; 19:3–6; Deut. 4:6; 26:18, 19; Ps. 118:22; Heb. 4:12; 1 Pet. 2:5–10

**God’s Word Is the Basis of Christian Living (Heb. 4:12)**

As Christians, we depend on the Scriptures to reveal to us God’s will for our lives, and our duty is to embrace it. Embracing God’s will is an act of faith, our inner resolve to accommodate whatever God speaks into our lives. The Word of God is a potent instrument in the life of any Christian who wants to live a transformed life.

**A hundred-dollar bill does not lose its value even if it looks old, tattered, and dusty.**

**Surrender to the Living Stone (Ps. 118:22)**

The wise man who wrote the book of Proverbs said, “The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom” (Prov. 9:10, NIV). There is no way we can make our lives into masterpieces if we do not surrender to the Author of life.

We can acquire wisdom only if we understand the nature of God and ask Him to show us the right way. God is the source of wisdom that we need to live as a chosen generation. The Stone appears in the Old Testament to show that God’s chosen people had to depend on Him to maintain their relationship with Him. As present-day Christians, we have to rely on the same Living Stone to maintain a close relationship with God. That Living Stone is Jesus Christ.

Once we surrender our lives to the Living Stone to have full control, we can ask for wisdom to make wise decisions regarding family, career, marriage, or finances.

**We Belong to God’s Covenant People (Gen. 15:18–21; 17:1–27)**

The covenant between God and His chosen people dates back to the time of the patriarchs. The covenant started with Abraham and extended to Isaac, Jacob, and Moses. It was a seal between God and His people, which they were to uphold for generations. It guided their lifestyle, distinguishing them from the rest of the people. To Abraham, God said, “ ‘Walk before Me and be blameless’ ” (Gen. 17:1, NKJV).

In the Old Testament, the covenant was confirmed by the blood of sacrifices and offerings (Exod. 24:8). In the New Testament, the covenant was confirmed by the blood of Christ. Jesus mentioned the blood of the covenant during the Last Supper, referring to it as “ ‘My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins’ ” (Matt. 26:28, NKJV).

Therefore, it implied that the blood of Christ saved us once we accepted Him, regardless of our origin. In Him, both the Gentiles and the Jews had equal chance of becoming members of His chosen generation.

**A Royal Priesthood (Exod. 19:3–6; 1 Pet. 2:5–10)**

Upon their deliverance from Egypt, the people of Israel were reminded by God, through Moses, what they had to do. God wanted the people of Israel to reconcile with Him, to obey His voice, and to keep the covenant (Exod. 19:5). In other words, the covenant was the binding constitution between God and His chosen nation. Because of the covenant, the people of Israel knew exactly what God required of them.

When Christ came, He fulfilled the reconciliation process that began at Mount Sinai. Whoever accepts Christ and believes in Him becomes a member of the royal priesthood. His blood, shed at Calvary, is the new covenant that binds Christians with heaven (1 Cor. 11:25).

**Obedience to the Covenant (Deut. 4:6; 26:18, 19)**

God chose the nation of Israel to be His treasured possession. In return, God commanded utmost obedience. They were to obey the commandments and uphold them to future generations. If they could remain pure in the eyes of God, other nations would be attracted to their lifestyle and embrace the true God. By following God’s commands, they would be a light to the nations around them. God would hold them high above all other nations.

They would proclaim praises to Him, and their name would be great.

Our title as a chosen people comes with a duty to perform our part. God is able to give us the highest honor and the greatest name. However, He calls on us to arise and shine so that others can see Him in us. By accepting Christ as our Savior, we confirm that we will walk with God, follow His precepts, and proclaim praises of the Most High.

**Our Value in God’s Sight (1 Pet. 2:9, 10)**

A hundred-dollar bill does not lose its value even if it looks old, tattered, and dusty. For Christians, the world may view us as of less value, but our value in the sight of God remains constant. Peter urges his readers that they are precious in God’s sight, and no matter their previous lifestyles, they have acquired membership in the royal priesthood. Whether you had the darkest past or you are facing turmoil because of your faith, accepting Christ makes you His treasured possession.

**REACT**

`1. How does Christ fulfill and complete the covenant that God started with the people of Israel?`

`2. What happened to the people of Israel when they disobeyed God’s commandments? What can happen to us if we do the same?`

`3. What is the reward of being a chosen generation?`

`4. Tony Philip Oreso, Nairobi, Kenya`