---
title:  Can We Recognize the Living Stone?
date:   10/04/2017
---

### Can We Recognize the Living Stone?

1 Pet. 2:4–8

“For more than a thousand years the Jewish people had awaited the Saviour’s coming. Upon this event they had rested their brightest hopes. In song and prophecy, in temple rite and household prayer, they had enshrined His name. . . .

“Yet God had chosen Israel. He had called them to preserve among men the knowledge of His law, and of the symbols and prophesies that pointed to the Saviour. He desired them to be as wells of salvation to the world. What Abraham was in the land of his sojourn, what Joseph was in Egypt, and Daniel in the courts of Babylon, the Hebrew people were to be among the nations.”<sup>1</sup>

**“Had Israel been true to God, He could have accomplished His purpose.”**

“The Israelites fixed their hopes upon worldly greatness. From the time of their entrance to the land of Canaan, they departed from the commandments of God, and followed the ways of the heathen. It was in vain that God sent them warning by His prophets. In vain they suffered the chastisement of heathen oppression. Every reformation was followed by deeper apostasy.

“Had Israel been true to God, He could have accomplished His purpose through their honor and exaltation. If they had walked in the ways of obedience, He would have made them ‘high above all nations which He hath made, in praise, and in name, and in honor.’ ”<sup>2</sup>

As we are part of the lineage of the chosen nation, it is important that we make a paradigm shift, withdrawing our focus from worldly greatness and focusing on Christ, our Savior and the Living Stone. Unlike the Israelites, who departed from God’s commandments as soon as they entered Canaan, we are to make Christ the centerpiece of our lives.

**REACT**

`1. Ancient Israel rejected Christ at His coming. How do we reject or fail to recognize Christ in our time?`

`2. What can the church do to continue revealing God to humanity?`

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 27.

<sup>2</sup> Ibid., p. 28.

_Patrick Kasavuli, Nairobi, Kenya_