---
title:  Chosen at a Young Age
date:   11/04/2017
---

### Chosen at a Young Age

2 Tim. 3:15–17

In his address to Timothy, Paul expounded on the noble character that the young man had acquired from childhood. Timothy received proper training from the Scriptures at a young age from his mother and grandmother.

However, when Paul visited them to share the good news of salvation, the deep knowledge behind their plain faces was confirmed. The gospel of Christ that Paul preached to them simply added to what they already knew, and they all accepted Christ as their personal Savior.

**Knowing God’s Word alone does not qualify one for salvation.**

Timothy’s noble character, acquired from a knowledge of the Scriptures, models what young adults should do today. First, we learn about the powerful role that parents and guardians play in the lives of young people under their care. In addition, the character of Timothy teaches us how receptive we should be to the Word of God, even at a young age. Our studies, professions, and work should not override our need for adequate spiritual nourishment.

Paul teaches Timothy that knowing God’s Word alone does not qualify one for salvation. There is a difference between knowing about God and applying what God wants in your life. As the Scriptures tell us, they are stepping-stones to know the Savior (James 1:18; 1 Pet. 1:23–25). The Word of God initiates Christians into salvation; then, it continues as a medium to shape their spiritual growth.

Our goal, as members of the royal priesthood, is to acquire perfection in Christ. The word perfect, which Paul uses in 2 Timothy 3:17 (KJV), refers to something new, fresh, or complete. Every chosen child of God has a right to become perfect, even as the law of God is perfect and immutable (Matt. 4:4; 24:35).

The main task that we need to do now as a chosen generation of God is to delve into the Scriptures and apply them in every facet of our lives. The challenges we encounter as young people, whether in the fields of finances, relationships, or the job market, can be reduced to a bare minimum because the Bible has a way of addressing each difficulty we face. As Paul points out, we need nothing more or less than God’s Word to equip us with what it takes to remain a chosen generation.

**REACT**

`1. What are some of the practices we must depart from in order to remain a chosen generation?`

`2. How does Scripture help us today to become perfect in Christ?`

_Lavender Onyango, Homa Bay, Kenya_