---
title:  Christian Living Checklist
date:   12/04/2017
---

### Christian Living Checklist

1 Pet. 2:1–3

Spiritual growth requires adequate spiritual exercise and proper diet, similar to the requirements for physical growth. In 1 Peter 2:1–3, Peter talks of Christians’ need for proper exercise and diet, so they can grow spiritually. Imagine these scenarios:

1. A person eats a bad diet, spends all day at a fast-food restaurant, and does not exercise. In the end, obesity sets in, and the person cannot even move. Spiritually, this would be reflected in feeding the mind outside the framework of God’s guidelines until a person is completely engulfed in sin.

**We are called to exercise spiritual worship.**

2. A person feeds on a good diet but does not exercise. In a spiritual sense, this is equal to lying on the couch reading your Bible without putting anything into practice.

3. In this scenario, a person works the entire day. In the spiritual sense, this translates into spending loads of time in church, serving different Christian ministries. However, the person has no nourishment because he or she spends no time with God to feed on His Word.

The three scenarios must ring a bell in our minds. As Christians, we have been called to perform a spiritual exercise. To begin with, we are called to love one another (1 Pet. 1:22). In this regard, we must purify our souls to obey the truth through the Spirit and love one another with a pure heart.

Second, we are called to exercise spiritual worship and to proclaim the testimony of Christ (verses 5, 9). These activities require a lot of spiritual muscle and strength. In order to maintain Christian living, we need to have a checklist with priorities.

_Plan._ Know the goals and objectives you want to achieve as a Christian. The Bible encourages us: “May he give you the desire of your heart and make all your plans succeed” (Ps. 20:4, NIV).

_Set right priorities._ With the right plan to execute, you can set your priorities to ensure that you achieve your objectives as a Christian. Ask God to grant you the Holy Spirit to reveal what is most important for you to accomplish as a Christian in this time.

_Commit time and energy to your plans._ Committing time and energy will ensure that you stick to your plans and seek guidance from God to lead you to the end.

**REACT**

`What else can you add to the checklist for Christian living?`

_Fred Musyoka, Kitui, Kenya_