---
title:  Why We Are Blessed as Believers
date:   13/04/2017
---

### Why We Are Blessed as Believers

1 Pet. 2:9, 10

If someone ever asked you what the difference between believers and nonbelievers is, you could give the answer that Peter explains in the following passage: “But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, God’s special possession, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God; once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy” (1 Pet. 2:9, 10, NIV).

In this message, Peter enumerates some of the blessings and privileges that separate believers from the rest of the world. Some of the privileges we as believers have today are similar to what the people of Israel enjoyed, while some are different.

**A true believer is an alien to the lifestyles of the world.**

However, Peter points his readers to the privileges and blessings that they have received as a chosen people, which eventually separate them from the rest of the world. As believers, we are supposed to know how precious and special we are in the eyes of God. Even as we face challenges, persecution, and suffering in this world, we remain in the center of God’s will. We have a call to show to the world the love of Christ.

Peter writes to the saints to encourage them to focus on their special obligation as Christians. Our role as Christians today is no different. We may or may not experience suffering and persecution, but the world still views us differently. A true believer is an alien to the lifestyles of the world. Peter refers to believers as a chosen people, in line with what the Bible says about ancient Israel (Deut. 7:6).

The church of believers is now God’s chosen people. This does not mean we are better than others, but we have His saving grace. We receive that unmerited favor through Christ’s death. God has chosen us to receive salvation through Christ, so we can live with Him and enjoy His presence forever.

**REACT**

`1. What assurance do we have as a chosen people in this generation?`

`2. How can we resist the world and retain our purity as a chosen people?`

_Ann Akoth, Rongai, Nairobi, Kenya_