---
title:  Be a Priest
date:   14/04/2017
---

### Be a Priest

1 Pet. 2:5–10

**CONCLUDE**

Following Jesus is a privileged position and a high calling. In responding to the invitation to follow Him, we step into a different reality and a new and rewarding way of living. Not that everything goes smoothly, but we become part of the household of God and have direct access to the Creator and Ruler of the universe. But this is not for only our benefit or holiness. We became representatives of God’s family, God’s kingdom, to those around us, as agents of the love, hope, and reconciliation He offers to all people.

**CONSIDER**

- Researching the household of the leader of your nation or some other significant household, such as the White House, Buckingham Palace, or something similar (see Sabbath’s lesson, for example). What is special about the house the leader lives in?
- Thinking back to the stories of Joseph (Gen. 41:37–57), Daniel (Daniel 1–6), or Esther (Esther 4–9). Imagine what it might mean for you to be involved in your nation’s government, like these Bible heroes, at the same time as you are seeking to stay true to God. Make a list of what achievements and difficulties you might face in such a role.
- Thinking of someone who has demonstrated the reality and love of God to you, perhaps a parent, a mentor, a teacher, a pastor, or a youth leader. Write the person either a letter of thanks, or talk with him or her about this person’s contribution to your life and faith.
- Making a list of the people you have influence with or over, including friends, younger relatives, or younger church people. Think about how you could be more intentional in representing God to them.
- Finding some safe space that is completely dark, and spending a few minutes sitting quietly in the darkness. Reflect on the experience and what it means to be light in the darkness. Then safely light a candle or turn on a small flashlight, and observe the difference. Ask God to help you be a light where you are.

**CONNECT**

1. Exodus 19; Leviticus 9.
2. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chap. 51, “ A Faithful Undershepherd”; The Upward Look, chap. 117, “God Has His Chosen People”; A Call to Stand Apart, chap. 16, “Careers.”
3. Reinder Bruinsma, The Body of Christ (Review and Herald®, 2010), chap. 4, “Biblical Foundations: Themes and Metaphors.”

_Nathan Brown, Melbourne, Australia_