---
title:  Reading and Interpreting the Word
date:  05/11/2019
---

`Read Nehemiah 8:4–8. How was the reading of the Law done?`

There were two groups of 13 men who stood with Ezra during the reading. The first group of 13 (Neh. 8:4) helped to read the Word of God, and the second group of 13 (Neh. 8:7) helped with the understanding of the passages. We do not have any information about how this arrangement worked in the open square; however, the men who helped with the reading possibly held the Torah (Hebrew scrolls were heavy and needed to be unrolled by others), as well as read from it successively, alternating between the readers. Because they were reading from morning until midday, they had figured out a way to reach everyone in the square.

The phrases “they gave the sense” and “helped the people to understand the reading” (Neh. 8:8, NKJV) can refer either to interpretation or translation of the passages. Both are just as likely in this instance. The people had returned from Babylon, where they had lived for many years, and the primary language there was Aramaic. Therefore, hearing the Hebrew reading may not have been easy to understand for many, especially the younger generations. At the same time, readers of the Bible can benefit from explanation or commentary. Preaching and explanation make the text come alive and press hearers to apply the information personally.

`Read Acts 8:26–38. What happened here that parallels what was happening in Jerusalem in the texts above? What lessons are here for us?`

As Protestants, we understand that individual believers must know the Word of God for themselves and that we must not blindly accept anyone else’s word on biblical truth, regardless of their authority. At the same time, who hasn’t been blessed by having someone help explain the meaning of texts? We need, each one of us, to know what we believe for ourselves, but this doesn’t mean that, at times, we can’t be enlightened by the teachings of others.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Through the intermarriage of the people with other nations, the Hebrew language had become corrupted, and great care was necessary on the part of the speakers to explain the law in the language of the people, that it might be understood by all. Certain of the priests and Levites united with Ezra in explaining the principles of the law. “They read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave the sense, and caused them to understand the reading.”—_Prophets and Kings_, pp. 661, 662.

Philip was directed to go to the Ethiopian and explain to him the prophecy that he was reading. “Go near,” the Spirit said, “and join thyself to this chariot.” As Philip drew near, he asked the eunuch, “Understandest thou what thou readest? And he said, How can I, except some man should guide me? And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him.” The scripture that he was reading was the prophecy of Isaiah relating to Christ. . . .  

“Of whom speaketh the prophet this?” the eunuch asked, “of himself, or of some other man?” Then Philip opened to him the great truth of redemption. Beginning at the same scripture, he “preached unto him Jesus.” 

The man’s heart thrilled with interest as the Scriptures were explained to him; and when the disciple had finished, he was ready to accept the light given. He did not make his high worldly position an excuse for refusing the gospel. “As they went on their way, they came unto a certain water: and the eunuch said, See, here is water; what doth hinder me to be baptized? And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him.”—_The Acts of the Apostles_, pp. 107, 108.

Those who prayerfully study the Bible go from each search wiser than they were before. Some of their difficulties have been solved; for the Holy Spirit has done the work spoken of in the fourteenth chapter of John: “The Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in My name, He shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.”  

Nothing worth having is obtained without earnest, persevering effort. In business, only those who have a will to do see successful results. Without earnest toil we cannot expect to obtain a knowledge of spiritual things. Those who obtain the jewels of truth must dig for them as a miner digs for the precious ore hidden in the earth.

Those who work indifferently and half-heartedly will never succeed. Young and old should read the word of God; and not only should they read it, but they should study it with diligent earnestness, praying, believing, and searching. Thus they will find the hidden treasure; for the Lord will quicken their understanding.—_Messages to Young People_, pp. 259, 260.