---
title:  Jesus’ First Miracles
date:   28/09/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
John 2:1–11; John 4:46–54; John 5:1–9; John 5:10–16; John 5:16–18; John 5:19–47.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Jesus did many other powerful works [miracles] in front of His followers. They [the miracles] are not written in this book. But these [the miracles in the Book of John] are written so you may believe that Jesus is the Christ [the Savior], the Son of God. When you put your trust in Him, you will have life that lasts [continues] forever through [because of] His name” (John 20:30, 31, NLV).

Why did John write his book about Jesus? Did John want to write mostly about Jesus’ miracles? Or His teachings?

The Holy Spirit helps John explain why he wrote his book. Sure, people could write much more about Jesus’ life than John wrote (John 21:25). But John says he included stories that will help us believe that Jesus “is the Christ [the Savior], the Son of God. When you put your trust in Him, you will have life that lasts [continues] forever through [because of] His name” (John 20:30, 31, NLV).

This week, we will read about some of Jesus’ first mira­cles. These miracles include the story about how Jesus turned water to wine at a wedding. We’ll also read about how Jesus healed someone’s very sick son and healed the man at the Pool of Bethesda in Jerusalem.

These miracles show us that Jesus is the Savior. In all these stories, we see examples of people who show faith in Jesus. Their examples invite us to believe in Him, too.