---
title:  The Wedding At Cana
date:   29/09/2024
---

`What special miracle did Jesus do at Cana? How did this miracle help His followers believe in Him? Read John 2:1–11 for the answers.`

In John 2, Jesus does His first miracle or sign. Jesus changed water into wine. This miracle helped Jesus’ fol­lowers decide to follow Him. The miracle was a very power­ful sign that showed the followers that Jesus came from God. (For sure, the followers were not ready to understand at that time that Jesus was God.)

The miracle helped Jesus’ followers to remember Moses, too. Moses was the leader of the Israelites in the desert. God used Moses to bring Israel out from Egypt with many “signs and wonders” (Deuteronomy 6:22, KJV; compare with Deuteronomy 26:8). (We can say that Moses was the same as a “savior” to Israel.) So, the miracle helped the Jews remember the time when God ended Israel’s slavery in Egypt. (Later, God promised Moses that He would send a special messenger to His people in the future. This messenger would lead the same way as Moses. God told Israel to obey this special messenger. This messenger was Jesus.)

When Moses led Israel from Egypt, God punished Egypt with Ten Troubles. God changed the waters of the Nile River into blood with Trouble #1. The Nile was important to the Egyptians. The Egyptians worshiped the Nile the same as a god. At Cana, Jesus also does a miracle with water. But Jesus turns water into wine, not blood.

The water came from six water pots. This water was used to wash things clean. The Jewish religious laws said that some things must be washed to be holy. These laws showed how God saved people from sin. So, the miracle that Jesus did at Cana helped the Jews to think about the Bible truth of being saved. When John wrote about how Jesus changed the water into wine, he did two things. (1) John helped his readers remember how God helped Israel escape Egypt. And (2) John helped his readers to understand that Jesus was their Savior.

What did the master of the feast think about the water that Jesus changed into grape juice? The master of the feast was surprised. The juice tasted wonderful. The master of the feast didn’t know that Jesus did a miracle. The master thought that the people in charge of the wedding saved the best juice for the end.