---
title:  Jesus’ Second Miracle
date:   30/09/2024
---

Jesus did miracles all during His work on earth. These miracles helped people believe in Him. John wrote about these miracles so that people would believe in Jesus, too.

`Read about Jesus’ second miracle in John 4:46–54. Why does John connect the second miracle with the first miracle that Jesus did at the wedding feast?`

John wants his readers to understand that Jesus’ miracles will help them know who Jesus is. So, John connects Jesus’ second miracle with His first. Then, John adds, “That was the second miracle that Jesus did after coming from Judea to Galilee” (John 4:54, ICB).

When we first read about the miracle, we may think that Jesus’ answer to the leader is mean. But the ­leader refused to believe in Jesus until Jesus healed his son. Jesus understood what was in this man’s heart. The spiri­tual sickness in this man’s heart was worse than the sickness that made the man’s son ill. Jesus’ words touched the man’s heart. The man understood that his own spiritual sickness could cost his son his life.

We must understand that miracles do not prove that Jesus is the Savior. Other people did miracles in the past. Some of these people were real messengers from God. What’s more, false messengers can do miracles, too. Miracles show us that something more powerful than humans is doing work. The miracles don’t mean that God is the One doing them. (Satan can do “miracles,” right?)

The leader asked Jesus to show him mercy and to heal his son. Jesus’ answer gave the man hope. Jesus said, “ ‘Go. Your son will live’ ” (John 4:50, ERV). The words written as “will live” show us something that will happen in the future. But in the Greek language, the words “will live” really show an action that is happening right now. So, these words “will live” tell us that Jesus is so sure about His promise that John can talk about it as if it is already happening. When the man got home the next day, he found that the fever left his son at the same time that Jesus made His promise.

This story is a powerful reason to believe in Jesus!

`Many people may do miracles today and say they are from God. But how do we know when a miracle is from God?`