---
title:  The Miracle At The Pool Of Bethesda
date:   01/10/2024
---

The next miracle that John writes about happens at the Pool of Bethesda (John 5:1–9). People believed that an angel caused the water in the pool to move. When that happened, people thought that the first sick person to enter the water would get better. Many people hoped to feel better. These people sat next to the pool, waiting to get into the water. Jesus went to Jerusalem. When he passed the pool, He saw the crowd waiting there.

Picture in your mind all these people waiting for water to heal them. For sure, some of these people were very sick.

`Read the story about the paralyzed man in John 5:1–9. Anyone next to the pool wanted to get well. So, why did Jesus ask the paralyzed man if he wanted to be healed (John 5:6)?`

The man’s answer helps us understand that he wants to walk again. The problem is that he looks for healing in the wrong place. The God who made man’s legs stands right in front of him.

“Jesus doesn’t ask this suffering man to show faith in Him. Jesus gives him a command: “ ‘Stand up! Pick up your mat [bedroll] and walk.’ ” [John 5:8, ERV]. With faith, the man believes Jesus’ words. Health comes into the man’s lame legs. The man doesn’t doubt Jesus’ words. He chooses to obey Jesus’ command. All the man’s muscles start to move. The man jumps to his feet. The man understands that he can walk now. . . . Jesus didn’t give this man any promise that He would help him. The man didn’t stop to doubt and lose his one chance of being healed. The man believed Jesus’ word and acted on it. When he did, God gave the man strength to stand.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 202, 203, adapted.

`Later, Jesus met this man in the temple. Jesus said to the man, “ ‘See, you are well now. But stop sinning or something worse may happen to you!’ ” (John 5:14, ERV). Can sin cause sickness? If yes, explain your answer. At the same time, why must we understand that sin doesn’t cause all the sickness in our life?`