---
title:  Hard Hearts
date:   02/10/2024
---

Miracles, signs, and wonders do not always come from God. But when miracles are from God, we make a terrible mistake if we reject them.

`Read the story about the miracle that Jesus does in John 5:10–16. What lessons can we learn from Jewish leaders and their hard hearts?`

Jesus went to the temple. There, He found the man that He healed. After Jesus talked with him, the man told the Jewish leaders right away that Jesus healed him. We may think that this news would cause the leaders to praise God. But “the Jewish leaders made trouble for Jesus because he did this [miracle] on the Sabbath day” (John 5:16, WE). So, the leaders made plans to kill Jesus.

The Jewish leaders allowed the sick to be healed on the Sabbath only in an emergency. The man had been paralyzed for 38 years. So, his healing was not an emergency. Also, why did Jesus command the man to pick up his sleeping mat on the Sabbath? The Jewish leaders believed that God would not tell someone to break Jewish man-made religious rules. If God really sent Jesus, then why did Jesus tell this man to carry a mat home on the Sabbath? Why did Jesus do these things? Jesus wanted to help the Jewish leaders to understand the Bible truths that were more important than their man-made rules. These strict rules hid the truth about God.

`Read John 9:1–16; Mark 3:22, 23; Matthew 12:9–14. What do these other stories teach us about how hard people can become in their hearts?`

How can these spiritual leaders fail to understand that Jesus is their Savior? The answer is that they had hard hearts. They also held on to the false belief that the Savior would make them free from the Romans. They loved power, and they refused to allow God to control their lives. All these things caused them to reject the Bible truth that Jesus was the Savior.

`What was Jesus’ warning? Read John 5:38–42 for the answer. What can we learn from Jesus’ words? What could be in us that blinds us to the Bible truth that we most need to know and live?`