---
title:  Jesus Says God Is His Father
date:   03/10/2024
---

The miracle that Jesus did at the Pool of Bethesda gave John a wonderful chance to explain who Jesus is. John writes about the miracle in nine verses. Then John uses about 40 more verses (John 5:19–47) to write about Jesus.

`Why did the Jewish leaders attack Jesus for doing a miracle on the Sabbath? Read John 5:16–18 for the answer.`

John 5:18 may seem strange or upsetting to us. Why? Because this verse seems to say that Jesus broke the Sabbath. But if we look closely at John 5:16–18, we see that Jesus says His “work” on the Sabbath honors His relationship with His Father. God doesn’t stop working just because it is the Sabbath. He continues to keep everything alive and running in heaven and on earth. In the same way, Jesus, as God, worked on the Sabbath. The Jewish leaders attacked Jesus because they said He broke the Sabbath and because He said God was His Father. If God was Jesus’ Father, then Jesus said He was the same as God.

`Read Jesus’ words to the Jewish leaders in John 5:19–47. What did Jesus say to help the leaders understand who He truly was? How did the miracle that Jesus did show this Bible truth?`

Jesus explains His actions in three parts. First, Jesus explains His close relationship with the Father (John 5:19–30). Jesus says that He and His Father act together in perfect agreement. So, Jesus has the same power that God the Father has to judge and wake up the dead (John 5:25–30).

Second, Jesus names four “witnesses” who can support the things He says about Himself: (1) John the Baptist (John 5:31–35); (2) Jesus’ own miracles (John 5:36); (3) God the Father (John 5:37, 38); and (4) the Bible (John 5:39). Each of these “witnesses” announces or shows who Jesus is.

Finally, in John 5:40–47, Jesus shows the Jewish leaders their sins. Jesus compares His work with their selfish actions. Jesus says that the law of Moses will judge the Jewish leaders (John 5:45–47). The leaders’ hope for the future comes from Moses’ promises. Sad to say, they do not understand the words that Moses wrote.