---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   04/10/2024
---

“We must have the same faith that the paralyzed man had. Then God will heal us. Sin cuts us off from God. Our spirits are paralyzed. We can’t live a holy life any more than that paralyzed man could walk. . . . All who are sad and fighting against sin should look up. The Savior bends over the ones He bought with His blood. The Savior says to them with pity that can’t be put into words, ‘Do you want to be healed?’ Jesus commands you to stand up in health and peace. Don’t wait to feel you are made whole. Believe His word. Then God will keep His promises. Give Jesus your heart. Choose to serve Him. When you act on His word, He will give you strength. Do you have an evil habit? Are you a slave to a habit that makes you the same as a prisoner in both mind and body? Jesus can save you. He wants to make you free. Jesus will give life to the spirit that is dead because of sin. Ephesians 2:1. Jesus will make free the person who is a slave to weakness and misfortune. Jesus will break the chains of sin.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 203, adapted.

“Jesus rejected the announcement that He sinned when He said He was God. Jesus said that He was the Son of God. Jesus and God were in perfect agreement: Jesus was One with God in His heart, One with Him in decisions, and One with Him in plans.”—The Desire of Ages, page 208, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus healed people because they believed His message. The Jewish leaders showed that their hearts were filled with doubt. Why are asking honest questions and feeling doubt not the same thing? Why is it important that we know how these two things are different?`

`Why is knowing the truth not enough to save us? What does save us, and how?`

`Look carefully at John 5:47. Today, many people reject that the Flood happened. They don’t believe that God made the skies and the earth in six days. How are these people doing what Jesus warned against in John 5:47?`