---
title:  Deception 101
date:  24/09/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Genesis 3**

**Deception 101**

In this week’s lesson we will study the temptation and fall in Genesis 3. We must read this passage prayerfully and carefully, because it describes the deceptive methods that Satan has used successfully in the course of human history. A careful study of the chapter reveals that the issue at the beginning was not merely over a tree but rather over authority. The test was whether Adam and Eve would render their allegiance to God’s Word and His authority or to the serpent’s word and his authority.

Satan did not reveal his true identity as an angel because he knew that God had warned Adam and Eve that a fallen angel would attempt to lead them into sin. Eve was expecting an angel, not a serpent, and for this reason Satan used a serpent as his medium and, through five methods, enticed Eve and then Adam into sin. The only protection for Adam and Eve against the wiles of the crafty ancient serpent was to obey the Word and authority of God without question.

Satan told Eve two related lies. The first was that if she disobeyed God’s explicit commandment, she would not die but live. The second was that if she ate the fruit, she would not need to depend on God to distinguish between good and evil, because she would be like God, and her own wisdom would enable her to make that distinction.

This chapter is not a mere historical account of the ancient past. In the course of six thousand years of experience, Satan has fine-tuned his deceptive craftiness. This lesson will show that the selfsame methods that Satan used at the beginning he will use at the end, “to deceive, if possible, the very elect” (Matt. 24:24).

#### inScribe

Read Genesis 3 from the translation of your choice. Write out Genesis 3:1–6. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `