---
title:  Five Devious Methods
date:  25/09/2022
---

#### inGest

God gave Adam and Eve every physical and spiritual blessing in Eden as a demonstration of His love, and He longed for a love response. God desired Adam and Eve to demonstrate their love by submitting to His authority and obeying His Word. As Jesus once expressed it, “If you love me, you will obey what I command” (John 14:15, NIrV).

Satan used five methods to undermine the love covenant between the Creator and His creatures. First, using a serpent as his medium, he performed a counterfeit miracle by making it appear that the serpent could speak (Gen. 3:1). It would certainly be a miracle for a serpent to speak, right?

Second, after captivating Eve’s attention by the counterfeit miracle, Satan misquoted God’s Word by asking Eve an ensnaring question: “Has God indeed said, ‘You shall not eat of every tree of the garden’?” (Gen. 3:1, emphasis supplied). Satan distorted God’s Word. In the course of history, he will disfigure the Word by embellishing it, adding to it, taking away from it, partially quoting it, and quoting it out of context.

Third, Satan misquoted God’s Word for a particular reason. He wanted to engage Eve in conversation, and he knew that the best way to get Eve to converse was to make an inaccurate statement. As expected, Eve corrected the misstatement and engaged Satan in conversation: “We may eat the fruit of the trees of the garden; but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, ‘You shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it, lest you die’ ” (vv. 2, 3, NKJV). Satan then responded, “ ‘You will not surely die’ ” (v. 4).

The serpent’s words confused Eve’s mind—caused cognitive dissonance. She thought to herself, “If we will not die, then why did God say that we would?” Satan planted this question in Eve’s mind and then immediately proceeded to answer his own question. His argument could be paraphrased as such, “God keeps secrets. He wants you to render Him blind service. He knows that if you eat the fruit, you will be like Him, and He wants no rivals” (see vv. 4, 5). He may have insinuated that at some point in the past, God had eaten the fruit and acquired His powers as God. Ellen White explained that Satan “insinuated that the Lord jealously desired to withhold it from them, lest they should be exalted to equality with Himself. . . . The tempter intimated that the divine warning was not to be actually fulfilled; it was designed merely to intimidate them.” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets (Battle Creek, MI: Review and Herald, 1890), 54.)

Fourth, Satan led Eve to follow the testimony of her senses instead of God’s Word. Her ears bought the serpent’s “rational” argument, the fruit looked good to her eyes, it smelled good, it seemed tasty, and she touched it and did not immediately die (v. 6).

Finally, once Satan gained the victory over Eve, he used Eve to tempt Adam. Satan uses people to tempt other people.

` `