---
title:  Two Kindred Deceptions
date:  26/09/2022
---

#### inTerpret

The Christian world today teaches two kindred errors that originated in Eden and form the foundation of spiritualism. The first is the postmodern idea that we can distinguish between right and wrong on our own, without reference to God’s objective Law. The second is that the souls of the righteous and the wicked are inherently immortal. Ellen White described the link between spiritualism and antinomianism:

“Spiritualism asserts that men are unfallen demigods; that ‘each mind will judge itself;’ that ‘true knowledge places men above all law;’ that ‘all sins committed are innocent;’ for ‘whatever is, is right,’ and ‘God doth not condemn.’ The basest of human beings it represents as in heaven, and highly exalted there. Thus it declares to all men, ‘It matters not what you do; live as you please, heaven is your home.’ Multitudes are thus led to believe that desire is the highest law, that license is liberty, and that man is accountable only to himself.” (Ellen G. White, Education (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1903), 227, 228.)

Faithful adherence to God’s Word is our only protection against the crafty stratagems of Satan. We cannot trust without question our senses, our reasoning powers, our feelings, miracles, or what others say. In the final conflict, the issue will be the same as at the beginning. Will we obey God’s Word and authority without hesitation?

Many objects look like gold, but appearances can be deceiving. The traditional acid test for gold consists in placing a small drop of a strong acid, such as nitric acid, onto a metal’s surface. When the acid comes in contact with common metals it fizzles or bubbles, while precious metals remain unaffected. The acid test is thus decisive, immediate, cheap, and simple in determining whether the metal is precious or not.

The lesson is clear. It is not safe to rely on the testimony of people to ascertain if a metal is real gold. We cannot simply trust that it is gold because it looks like gold or “tastes” like gold. We must apply an external test that will give absolute certainty that the metal is genuine gold or else we might just buy “fool’s gold”! Satan knows that the Word of God, diligently studied and obeyed, is the litmus test of truth and error. For this reason, he has used two methods in the course of history to hide Bible truth.

During the 1,260 years of prophecy (Dan. 7:25), the populace wallowed in ignorance and darkness because Satan, through the apostate church, forbade the Bible (cf. Revelation 11:3). However, in our age of presumed enlightenment, Satan accomplishes the same objective by undermining its authority. In these last days Satan uses the same methods that succeeded at the beginning. He performs miracles, adulterates the Word, and leads people to trust their own reasoning powers, the testimony of their senses, and the words of others. After six thousand years of experience, however, Satan’s end time delusions are far more deceptive. So powerful will they be that even the faith of the elect will be tested (Matt. 24:24).

` `