---
title:  A Matter of Character
date:  28/09/2022
---

#### inVite

When Adam and Eve disobeyed God’s Word, they broke their love covenant with Jesus their Creator (John 1:1–3). The broken relationship led to separation (Isa. 59:2), and separation to death (Rom. 6:23). When Satan leads people astray from the Word of God, he separates them from Jesus.

The idea that the souls of the righteous go to heaven to be with Jesus at death sounds comforting to living relatives and friends. It is, however, a placebo and a trap. If the souls of the righteous go to heaven at death, what would prevent them from coming back to impart messages to their relatives and friends? Satan has free and unfettered power and access to those who believe in the immortality of the soul because he can disguise himself and teach whatever he wishes, which will ultimately separate us from Jesus.

In order to separate us from Jesus, Satan must tarnish God’s character. At the beginning, he attacked God’s law as restrictive and dictatorial. He insinuated that God’s commands are enslaving. He questioned God’s love, claiming that He had withheld something good from Adam and Eve. He argued that God expects self-sacrifice but is not willing to sacrifice Himself. He accused God of being selfish. The Father’s willingness to give up His own Son and the Son’s willingness to live a perfect life and suffer an ignominious death contradicted every accusation of Satan.

When Adam and Eve sinned, they were not immediately repentant. Adam blamed Eve and Eve the serpent (Gen. 3:8–11). Actually, both blamed God! They feared the consequences of their sinful act rather than the sinful act itself. They did not understand the depths of their transgression until they realized that because of it, their Creator would come from heaven to weave a robe of righteousness for them and bear their punishment. They only understood the implications of their transgression and the immeasurable self-giving and unselfish love of Jesus when Adam offered the first sacrifice:

“To Adam, the offering of the first sacrifice was a most painful ceremony. His hand must be raised to take life, which only God could give. . . . As he slew the innocent victim, he trembled at the thought that his sin must shed the blood of the spotless Lamb of God. This scene gave him a deeper and more vivid sense of the greatness of his transgression, which nothing but the death of God’s dear Son could expiate.” (White, Patriarchs and Prophets, 68.)

` `