---
title:  The Prayers Of God’S People
date:   10/02/2019
---

_The special perfume is a word picture for the prayers of God’s people (Revelation 5:8). So, the prayers that the angel offers in front of God are the prayers from God’s suf­ fering people._

Revelation 8 starts with seven angels who stand in front of God. The seven angels are ready to blow their trumpets. But before any angel blows his trumpet, something else happens. This happening helps explain to us what the trumpets mean.

Read Revelation 8:3, 4. Then read this description about what happened every day in the temple in Jerusalem: every evening, a holy leader, or priest, put the lamb on the altar to be burned up. First, the priest poured the lamb’s blood at the bottom of the altar. Then the priest took a gold pan inside the temple and offered special perfume on the gold altar in the Holy Room. When the priest came out again, he threw the gold pan down on the floor. The pan made a loud noise when it hit the floor. When that happened, seven more priests blew their trumpets to show that the special work they did in the temple was finished for that day.

In Revelation 8:3–5, we see that John uses many of the same words we just read that show what happens every evening in the temple. Where does the angel get the spe- cial perfume for his gold pan? He gets it from the “altar made of gold before [in front of God’s] throne” (Revelation 8:3, NLV). This special perfume is a word picture for the prayers of God’s people (Revelation 5:8). So, the prayers that the angel offers in front of God are the prayers from God’s suffering people. God is now ready to answer their prayers.

Revelation 8:3–5 give us important information about the trumpets in Revelation:

a. The seven trumpets are God’s punishments for humans who break His law. God punishes evil humans because they have hurt His people, and His people have prayed to God to ask Him to give them justice.

b. The 1st angel blows his trumpet after Jesus dies on the cross as God’s Lamb. Each trumpet shows us a differ- ent time in history after Jesus’ death until the Second Coming (read Revelation 11:15–18).

`Read Revelation 8:5 and then Ezekiel 10:2. We read that fire is thrown on the enemies of God’s people. Where does the fire come from? How does Ezekiel’s vision about throwing fire on Jerusalem help us to understand better the trumpets in Revelation?`