---
title:  What Do The Trumpets Mean?
date:   11/02/2019
---

_The 2nd trumpet is a word picture for God’s punishment against the Roman kingdom for killing Jesus and attacking God’s church._

Revelation uses trumpets as a word picture to show us how God works to save His people. Trumpets were import- ant in Israel during Old Testament times (Numbers 10:8–10; 2 Chronicles 13:14, 15). The trumpet sound helped people think about worship in the temple. People also blew trumpets in war, at the time when the crops were ready to pick and eat, and during festivals. During worship in the temple or during a festival, the trumpet sound helped people remember God and His Special Agreement with His people. The trumpet sound helped people get ready for the “day of the Lord” (Joel 2:1, NLV). During war, God’s people prayed. Then someone blew the trumpet. That was how God’s people asked God to save them. All this information helps us understand better why God used the trumpets in Revelation.

`The trumpets in Revelation 8:13 and Revelation 9:4, 20, 21 show us God’s punishments. Who does God punish?`

The seven trumpets show us God’s punishments against the enemies who hurt His people (Revelation 8:13). At the same time, the seven trumpets are warnings. They warn the people on earth to turn back to God before it is too late. The trumpets also show us what will happen in the future from John’s time until the end (Revelation 11:15–18). The punishments that the trumpets show us do not happen everywhere on earth. They hurt only 1/3 of the earth:

a. Trumpets #1 and #2 show us God’s punishments on the Jews in Jerusalem and the Roman Kingdom. These people groups put Jesus to death on the cross and attacked the New Testament church.

b. Trumpets #3 and #4 show us what God did when the church turned away from Him during the Dark Ages and later when people in Europe started, in the 1500s, to wake up to Bible truth.

c. Trumpets #5 and #6 show us that after the 1500s peo- ple will fight over religion. During this time, demons will start working very hard to turn people against God’s followers before Jesus comes back.

`Yes, history is full of blood, pain, and sad stories. How should these stories help us know that Jesus’ promises to us really are wonderful?`