---
title:  The Angel With An Open Book 
date:   12/02/2019
---

_When the Angel says, “ ‘There will be no more waiting!’ ” (Revelation 10:6, ERV), He means that the times that Daniel writes about are over. These times include the 2,300 days in Daniel 8:14, which are 2,300 real years._

The 6th trumpet brings us to the end time. What does God ask His people to do during this time? Before the 7th angel blows his trumpet, John writes about a time that explains the special work that God’s people do and what they will experience in the end time.

`Read Revelation 10:1–4. What is happening here?`

The powerful Angel in these verses is Jesus. He holds an open book. He puts one foot on the sea and one foot on the land to show us He is the Ruler over everything on earth. Also, the way that He stands shows us that the words He will say are important to everyone alive on the earth. His shout is the same as a lion’s roar. A lion’s roar is a word picture for God’s voice (read Hosea 11:10).

`Compare Revelation 10:5–7 with Daniel 12:6, 7. What same words do you see in both sets of verses?`

The Angel announces, “ ‘There will be no more waiting!’ ” (Revelation 10:6, ERV). The words “ ‘no more waiting’ ” come from the Greek word “chronos [khro’-nos]” “Chronos” shows us that the Angel is talking about a special time in the history of God’s people. This time is the same time that Daniel talked about in Daniel 12:6, 7. In those verses, an angel tells Daniel that God’s enemies will attack God’s people. These attacks will continue for “a time, times, and a half a time (3½ years)” (Daniel 12:7, NLV). The 3½ years are a word picture for 1,260 real years (a.d. 538–1798). Sometime after this time, the history of this earth will end.

So, when the Angel says, “ ‘There will be no more waiting!’ ” (Revelation 10:6, ERV), He means that the times that Daniel writes about are over. These times also include the 2,300 days in Daniel 8:14, which are 2,300 real years. The 2,300 years started in 457 b.c. and ended in a.d. 1844. The Bible gives us no more special time messages about things that happen to God’s people after 1844. “After this time in the history of God’s people, ending in 1844, the Bible gives us no more special time messages about the future.”—Ellen G. White Comments [ideas], The SDA Bible Commentary [explanation], vol- ume 7, page 971, adapted.