---
title:  John Measures The Temple
date:   13/02/2019
---

_The scroll that John eats is a word picture for the time when God will show His people the meaning of Daniel’s end­time messages._

The Bible uses “eating” as a word picture to show us what happens when someone accepts a message from God and gives the message to other people (read Ezekiel 2:8–3:11; Jeremiah 15:16). When someone accepts God’s message, the message is good news. But sometimes when a person announces the message, it can cause a “sour” feeling when other people turn against the message or refuse to accept it. In Revelation 10:9, 10, John experiences a time that is both sweet and sour when he eats the scroll or roll of writ- ing paper. The scroll that John eats is a word picture for the time when God will show His people the meaning of Daniel’s end-time messages. John himself is a word picture for God’s church that must preach the Good News at the end of the 3½ years, or 1,260 days (1,260 years), in Daniel 7:25.

John’s experience also points us to the time at the end of the 2,300-year period. At that time, the group of people named the Millerites believed that Jesus was going to come back in 1844. That message was sweet as honey to them. But when Jesus did not come back, the Millerites experienced a sour feeling.

Then the Angel (who is Jesus) tells John to “ ‘tell what will happen again’ ” (Revelation 10:11, NLV) to all the people on the earth. Here, John himself is a word picture for Sabbath- keeping Adventists. God chose Sabbath-keeping Adventists to tell everyone on the earth about Jesus’ Second Coming and the messages of Daniel and Revelation about what will happen in the future at the end time.

`Read Revelation 11:1, 2. What is John ordered to do?`

These verses pick up where we left off in Revelation 10. God tells John to measure the temple, the altar, and the worshipers. The Bible uses the act of measuring as a word picture to show God’s work as our Judge (read Matthew 7:2). The temple that John must measure is the temple in heaven where Jesus works as our High Priest. A high priest is a holy leader who works to save his people from sin. The temple, the altar, and the worshipers all point us to the day when God will judge the earth. On that day, God will “measure” the works of His people and judge their sins. Revelation 11:1 points to the time when God will judge His people right before Jesus’ Second Coming. During that time, God will judge only His people, who are in the temple.