---
title:  The Two Witnesses
date:   14/02/2019
---

The two witnesses are a word picture for the Old and New Testaments. The two witnesses also can be a word picture for God’s people when they show other people Bible truths.

`Read about the two witnesses in Revelation 11:3–6. How do the two witnesses act the same as Zerubbabel and Joshua in Zechariah 4:2, 3, 11–14? How are the two witnesses the same as kings and priests or holy leaders?`

The idea about the two witnesses comes from Jewish law. Jewish law says that at least two witnesses must agree about something for it to be accepted as true (John 8:17). The two witnesses are a word picture for the Old and New Testaments. These two parts of the Bible cannot be separated because God commands His people to announce all of the Bible’s truth to everyone on earth.

In the book of Revelation, the two witnesses (the Old and New Testaments) announce what will happen during the 1,260 years (a.d. 538–1798). The two witnesses wear black clothing during the 1,260 years while they preach God’s mes- sage about the future. But what do the black clothes mean? In many countries, people wear black clothes to funerals (Genesis 37:34). So, the black clothes show us a time when Bible truth was “buried.” It was covered and hidden by human ideas.

`Read about the two witnesses in Revelation 11:7–13. Describe what happens to them at the end of the 1,260 days, or years.`

The wild sea-animal power “kills” the two witnesses (the Old and New Testaments). This killing is a word picture for what happened to the Bible during the French Revolution. At that time, the French government attacked the Bible and made laws against religion. But the two witnesses come back to life from the dead. Their coming back to life shows us that people start to read the Bible again. Right before the end of time, God’s people will preach the Bible in a new and powerful way. This last announcement of Bible truth also will be sweet for God’s people, but sour too. Why? Because people who do not love God will attack God’s followers for preaching Bible truth.