---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   15/02/2019
---

_God will destroy those people who destroy the earth._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: The 7th trumpet (Revelation 11:15–18) tells us about the time when this earth’s history ends. At that time, God will show His power as King. The people on this earth have been at war with God for many thousands of years. Humans have been under Satan’s control for a long time. But God will take control of the earth. After Jesus died on the cross and went back to heaven, God announced that Jesus was the true leader of the earth (Revelation 12:10, 11). Yes, Satan continues to make much trouble on earth. Satan knows his time on this earth is almost over (Revelation 12:12). The 7th trumpet shows us that God will end the fight against His government. Then He will rule over the earth.

The rest of the book of Revelation is about end-time hap- penings. The 7th trumpet shows us five things about those end-time happenings: (1) Different countries on earth are angry. Revelation 12–14 show us that Satan also is very angry (Revelation 12:17). Satan works with the wild sea-animal power and the wild land-animal power to get the people on earth ready to fight against God’s people. (2) It is the time for God’s anger against evil. What is God’s answer to the angry people on the earth who are against Him? God’s answer is the Seven Last Troubles. “These are the last troubles, because after these troubles God’s anger is finished” (Revelation 15:1, ICB). (3) God will judge the dead (Revelation 20:11–15). (4) God will reward His servants (Revelation 21–22). (5) God will destroy those peo­ ple who destroy the earth. Revelation 19:2 tells us what will happen to end-time Babylon. End-time Babylon is a word picture for three things: (1) the Roman Catholic Church (Revelation 17), (2) the Protestant churches that have turned away from God’s truth (Revelation 14:8), and (3) all false religions everywhere. God judges Babylon for destroying the earth. God will destroy Satan, his armies, and the evil powers that help him. When God does that, then the big war between good and evil will be over (Revelation 19:11–20:15).

**DISCUSSION QUESTION**:

`1. There are times when people make fun of the Good News about Jesus. They turn away from what we preach. They make fun of us too. That can give us a “sour” feeling in our stomachs (Revelation 10:10). Who can you think of in the Bible that expe- rienced the same things? What can we learn from their suffering and their faith?`