---
title:  “ ‘I Am Joseph Your Brother’ ”
date:  16/06/2022
---

`Read Genesis 45. What lessons of love, faith, and hope can be found in this story?`

It was at that very moment, when Judah talked about the “ ‘evil’ ” that would fall upon ’avi, “ ‘my father’ ” (Gen. 44:34), that Joseph “cried out” (Gen. 45:1, NKJV) and then “made himself known” to his brothers. This expression, often used to refer to God’s self-revelation (Exod. 6:3, Ezek. 20:9), suggests that it is God who had revealed Himself here, as well. That is, the Lord had shown that His providence reigns, even despite human foibles.

Joseph’s brothers cannot believe what they are hearing and seeing. Thus, Joseph is obliged to repeat, “ ‘I am Joseph your brother’ ” (Gen. 45:4, NKJV), and it is only the second time, when they hear the precise words “ ‘whom you sold into Egypt’ ” (Gen. 45:4, NKJV), that they believe.

Joseph then declares: “ ‘God sent me’ ” (Gen. 45:5, NKJV). This reference to God has a double purpose. It serves not only to reassure his brothers that Joseph does not have hard feelings toward them; but it also is a profound confession of faith, and an expression of hope, because what they did was necessary for the “ ‘great deliverance’ ” and the survival of a “ ‘posterity’ ” (Gen. 45:7, NKJV).

Joseph then urges his brothers to go to his father in order to prepare him to come to Egypt. He accompanies his call with specific words concerning the place where they will “ ‘dwell,’ ” that is, Goshen, famous for its rich pasture, “ ‘the best of the land’ ” (Gen. 45:10, 18, NKJV). He also takes care of the transportation: carts are provided, which will ultimately convince Jacob that his sons were not lying to him about what they had just experienced (Gen. 45:27). Jacob takes this visible demonstration as evidence that Joseph is alive, and this is enough for him to come alive again (compare with Gen. 37:35, Gen. 44:29).

Things are now good. Jacob’s 12 sons are alive. Jacob is now called “Israel” (Gen. 45:28), and the providence of God has been made manifest in a powerful way.

`Yes, Joseph was gracious to his brothers. He could afford to be. How, though, do we learn to be gracious to those whose evil toward us doesn’t turn out as well for us as what Joseph experienced?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Joseph was satisfied. He had proved his brethren, and had seen in them the fruits of true repentance for their sins, and he was so deeply affected that he could not longer conceal his feelings, and requested to be left alone with his brethren. He then gave vent to his long-suppressed feelings and wept aloud. . . .<br/>
His brethren could not answer him for astonishment. They could not really believe that the ruler of Egypt was their brother Joseph whom they had envied, and would have murdered, but finally were satisfied to sell as a slave. All their ill treatment of their brother painfully passed before them, and especially his dreams, which they had despised, and had labored to prevent their fulfillment. . . .<br/>
As Joseph saw the confusion of his brethren, he said to them, “Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near. And he said I am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt.” He nobly sought to make this occasion as easy for his brethren as possible. He had no desire to increase their embarrassment by censuring them. He felt that they had suffered enough for their cruelty to him, and he endeavored to comfort them. He said to them, “Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye sold me hither, for God did send me before you to preserve life. . . . So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God; and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and Lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt.—Spiritual Gifts, vol. 3, p. 165.

Study the history of Joseph and of Daniel. The Lord did not prevent the plottings of men who sought to do them harm; but He caused all these devices to work for good to His servants who amidst trial and conflict preserved their faith and loyalty.<br/>
So long as we are in the world, we shall meet with adverse influences. There will be provocations to test the temper; and it is by meeting these in a right spirit that the Christian graces are developed. If Christ dwells in us, we shall be patient, kind, and forbearing, cheerful amid frets and irritations. Day by day and year by year we shall conquer self, and grow into a noble heroism. This is our allotted task; but it cannot be accomplished without help from Jesus, resolute decision, unwavering purpose, continual watchfulness, and unceasing prayer. Each one has a personal battle to fight. Not even God can make our characters noble or our lives useful, unless we become co-workers with Him. Those who decline the struggle lose the strength and joy of victory.—The Ministry of Healing, p. 487.

We are brought into sympathy with Christ through the fellowship of His sufferings. Every act of self-sacrifice for the good of others strengthens the spirit of beneficence in the giver’s heart, allying him more closely to the Redeemer of the world. . . .<br/>
If you will go to work as Christ designs that His disciples shall, and win souls for Him, you will feel the need of a deeper experience and a greater knowledge in divine things, and will hunger and thirst after righteousness. You will plead with God, and your faith will be strengthened, and your soul will drink deeper drafts at the well of salvation. Encountering opposition and trials will drive you to the Bible and prayer. You will grow in grace and the knowledge of Christ, and will develop a rich experience.—Steps to Christ, pp. 79, 80.