---
title:  Church Leaders And Unity
date:  24/10/2018
---

“But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of Christ’s gift” (Eph. 4:7, NKJV). While salvation is a gift given to all people who will receive it, some spiritual gifts are given to certain people for a special purpose.

`Read Ephesians 4:11. What gifts of leadership does God give to the church?`

`According to Ephesians 4:12, what is God’s purpose in giving special gifts of leadership to the church? How do these gifts relate to each other?`

All Christians are in a sense ministers and servants of God and the gospel. Christ’s commission in Matthew 28:19, 20 is given to all Christians to go, to make disciples of all nations, to baptize, and to teach. The work of ministry is not given only to a privileged few, such as pastors and/or evangelists, but to all who bear the name of Christ. No one can claim exemption from the work of spreading the gospel, and no church leader can claim to have an exclusive ministry. The spiritual gifts of leadership are specifically to edify the church. Church leaders are needed to foster, promote, and encourage unity.

Paul’s list of gifts of leadership tells us that these roles also are for equipping God’s people to reach the lost. It is the responsibility of some specially called people within the church to help others fulfill their ministry and service for Christ, and to edify the body of Christ, “till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ” (Eph. 4:13, NKJV). The example of Jesus’ style of leadership must guide how we do ministry. Jesus came to serve others and not to be served (Matt. 20:25-28); we must go and do likewise.

There is a strong tendency among humans to be independent and not accountable to anyone. Western society, in particular, is plagued by this inclination. Paul reminds us, however, that no Christian is alone in this world and that we form a community of faith with spiritual leaders to help encourage one another in our common journey. We are, all together, part of the body of Christ.

`What spiritual gifts do you have, and how are you using them for the unity of your local church?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God wants His people to be united in the closest bonds of Christian fellowship; confidence in our brethren is essential to the prosperity of the church; union of action is important in a religious crisis. One imprudent step, one careless action, may plunge the church into difficulties and trials from which it may not recover for years. One member of the church filled with unbelief may give an advantage to the great foe that will affect the prosperity of the entire church, and many souls may be lost as the result. Jesus would have His followers subject one to another; then God can use them as instruments to save one another; for one may not discern the dangers which another’s eye is quick to perceive; but if the undiscerning will in confidence obey the warning, they may be saved great perplexities and trials.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 3, p. 446. 

Walk humbly before God, acknowledging Him as your Master. It is a great misfortune to be unable to see in others higher excellencies and powers of greater usefulness than in yourself. . . . 

Were it not for God’s gracious gifts and blessings, we should be bankrupt for eternity. Then let no one sound his own praises, feeding upon his supposed wisdom. If his talents were of his own manufacture, there would be some consistency in self-praise. But man has nothing of his own. Let us not reveal our lack of true wisdom by exalting self. Let us bow low in humility at the feet of Him who has entrusted to us our talents. Let us use and improve these talents, handing principle and interest back to the Giver. . . .  

As a sacred trust every talent is to be employed aright. Those whom God has made His stewards are to search the Scriptures earnestly, that they may communicate its truths to others, leading them to the path which has been cast up for the ransomed of the Lord. By precept and example we are to teach others that through the grace of Christ they may be obedient to all God’s commandments, and be clothed with the righteousness of Christ. . . . “Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city” (Revelation 22:14).—_This Day With God_, p. 200.

God is leading a people out from the world upon the exalted platform of eternal truth, the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. He will discipline and fit up His people. They will not be at variance, one believing one thing, and another having faith and views entirely opposite, each moving independently of the body. Through the diversity of the gifts and governments that He has placed in the church, they will all come to the unity of the faith.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 3, p. 446. 