---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/10/2018
---

Ellen G. White, “The Spirit of Unity,” pp. 179-188, in Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9.

“Christ recognized no distinction of nationality or rank or creed. The scribes and Pharisees desired to make a local and a national benefit of all the gifts of heaven and to exclude the rest of God’s family in the world. But Christ came to break down every wall of partition. He came to show that His gift of mercy and love is as unconfined as the air, the light, or the showers of rain that refresh the earth.

“The life of Christ established a religion in which there is no caste, a religion by which Jew and Gentile, free and bond, are linked in a common brotherhood, equal before God. No question of policy influenced His movements. He made no difference between neighbors and strangers, friends and enemies. That which appealed to His heart was a soul thirsting for the waters of life.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, pp. 190, 191.

**Discussion Questions**

`Reflect on this statement: “In the fourth chapter of Ephesians the plan of God is so plainly and simply revealed that all His children may lay hold upon the truth. Here the means which He has appointed to keep unity in His church, that its members may reveal to the world a healthy religious experience, is plainly declared.” —Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 6, p. 1117. What do you see in Ephesians 4 that points to the unity of the church? What can we do to help ensure that unity?`

`So central to the question of unity is the need for humility and submission. Without these traits, how could any unity exist in the church? If we are proud, sure of our views and positions, and unwilling to listen to others, we have no chance of unity. How can we learn this humility and submission?`

`How can we have unity even when we don’t always agree on everything?`

**Summary**: In his Epistle to the Ephesians, Paul gives many counsels regarding what it means for Christians to be “in Christ.” Salvation in Jesus transforms our lives in practical ways. All our human relationships, including relations between brothers and sisters in the church, are transformed by the power of Christ in our lives. And this transformation is crucial in order for us to have unity.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Testimonies for the Church_, “The Spirit of Unity,” vol. 9, pp. 179–188.