---
title:  A Walk of Shame
date:  17/08/2019
---

**Introduction**: Matt. 9:36

On vacation in Italy, as we were trekking Florence, a man on the street reached out, offering us something. I waved my hand, brushing him off, not even looking his way. There were so many of them. Everywhere!

“Let’s buy something from him,” my wife said.

We barely had time to see David, and the gardens were closing soon. My thoughts nagged at me while my feet unwillingly turned to take me the few yards back to a homeless-looking guy selling some thrifts on a cardboard box. “OK, what do you want?” I asked my wife while pulling out my wallet, not trying to hide annoyance in my voice.

She replied, “I don’t know. But, take something.”

All this time I was avoiding looking at this guy who was wasting my valuable vacation time and money. And then, inadvertently, our eyes met. And I saw it. Not just an urge to survive, not a desire to take a few euros from me, but a desperate cry to be acknowledged.

At that moment I saw my own, long forgotten, eyes.

Long ago, while stuck in a vertigo of endless immigration limbo, I faced those looks. Frowning looks that just saw me as something in their way. And now, this man faced the same frowning look—in my eyes.

Tables turn—and we forget.

“When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd” (Matt. 9:36, NIV). Jesus presents something almost extinct in our society: compassion. We are so smothered with demands for attention that that silent stranger on the corner stands absolutely no chance.

But . . . if only . . . if we would only stop and ask ourselves if the compassion of our Savior lives in us; really lives—oh, my!

So we got some bracelets from him, spent a few minutes talking, and gave him a few euros extra. The bracelets will wear out, but I’ll keep a memory of a smile as he waved at us, yelling, “Ciao amici!”

But I walked away ashamed.

“Why didn’t we just give him some money?” I asked.

“Charity with dignity, my dear,” my wife said.

Charity with dignity.

As Mahatma Gandhi has been purported to have said, “Compassion is a muscle that gets stronger with use.” May God find us working out diligently!

---

_Milos Tomic, Denver, Colorado, USA_