---
title:  Hot Coals, Warm Hearts
date:  18/08/2019
---

**Evidence**: Prov. 25:21, 22; Rom. 12:20

By and large, the Bible gives us clear counsel in regard to vengeance (cf. Matt. 5:39; 1 Cor. 6:7; 1 Pet. 2:20).

The difficult truth for Christians is that, in the face of great evil, we must keep our Spirit-led composure. We must never stoop to the level of the oppressor. But what does it mean to “heap burning coals” on an enemy’s head (Rom. 12:20, NIV)? Are we to do good in order to hurt our enemies? Can our motives for well doing be to ultimately destroy our enemies? Well, no!

**These coals were the outward symbol of repentance.**

Romans 12:20 quotes Proverbs 25:21, 22, a section of the book that is attributed to King Solomon, though compiled at a later date by King Hezekiah’s men ( Prov. 25:1). Many of these proverbs have parallels to Egyptian writings of the time. No wonder, since Solomon made political alliances with Egypt, even marrying a daughter of the pharaoh (1 Kings 3:1). Apparently Egyptian culture was influential and may help explain the meaning of our particular proverb.

There is a story of an Egyptian thief who stole a book from a gravesite.1 After being caught, the thief returned the book to the gravesite—this time while carrying a basin of fiery coals on his head. These coals were an outward symbol of repentance and regret for his unrighteous act. It signified recognition of wrongs and a willingness to endure the shame and guilt in order to change.

This old story gives a fresh understanding of the intent of both the proverb and Paul’s quote in Romans 12. A Christian is compassionate toward his or her enemy in hopes of redeeming a friend. In doing so, we are simply modeling to others what God has done for us, for “God’s kindness is intended to lead [us] to repentance” (Rom. 2:4, NIV).

The Bible is remarkably consistent from beginning to end. When it comes to social justice, Christians are expected to be the first to stand in the way of injustice. We must always fight for the good of the oppressed. But we are called to do so in a way that is honorable and redemptive even to the oppressor. May our conduct be so filled with the character of Christ that those who are in the wrong willingly bear the heated coals of repentance on their heads.

**React**

`1. How can we balance God’s call for social justice with His command to be peaceful?`

`2. How should Adventists be involved in political and social movements?`

---

<sup>1. Bruce K. Waltke, The Book of Proverbs: Chapters 15–31 (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 2005), p. 33.</sup>

_James Mello, Thomasville, Georgia, USA_