---
title:  All That He Has
date:  20/08/2019
---

**Testimony**: James 1:27

It’s all too easy to sit around talking about how broken the rest of the world is; how they don’t understand the truth; how they’re bound in sin and addiction; and if they would just pull themselves up by their bootstraps, they’d be all right. If they could think more logically, or be in less pain and confusion, they’d stop sinning. We talk about it as though it is their job to save themselves from sin, addiction, or poor lifestyle choices.

Perhaps we keep the ball in their court because we prefer that over the truth—the truth that puts the responsibility in the hands of Christ, which includes His body, the church. Have you ever felt that the church wasn’t what you’d hoped for—lacking any life-changing power? Consider this: “The real character of the church is measured, not by the high profession she makes, not by the names enrolled upon the church book, but by what she is actually doing for the Master, by the number of her persevering, faithful workers. Personal interest and vigilant, individual effort will accomplish more for the cause of Christ than can be wrought by sermons or creeds.”1

Could it be that we’ve relied on sermons to get the message out and to keep the church healthy, forgetting that we all have gifts to return to God? Imagine a church full of “ministers” sharing their gifts fully with the world. We are given the desire to help sinners out of Satan’s power by the truth and power of God, which we will have flowing through us as much as our hearts are fully His.

“The Christian has no desire to live for self. He delights to consecrate all that he has and is to the Master’s service. He is moved by an inexpressible desire to win souls to Christ. Those who have nothing of this desire might better be concerned for their own salvation. Let them pray for the spirit of service. “How can I best glorify Him whose I am by creation and by redemption?

This is to be the question that we are to ask ourselves. With anxious solicitude the one who is truly converted seeks to rescue those who are still in Satan’s power. He refuses to do anything that would hinder him in his work.”2

**React**

`1. Do you have a heart to serve the lost?`

`2. Do you know someone struggling with sin, and how might you help them?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, “Scattered Churches,” The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, Sept. 6, 1881.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, p. 10.</sup>

_Joshua Hester, Council Bluffs, Iowa, USA_