---
title:  Experience First. Service Next.
date:  21/08/2019
---

**How-to**: Matt. 12:34, 35

It can be difficult and even overwhelming to put into practice what we are discussing in this quarterly. How do you figure out where God is calling you to help? What if you feel uncomfortable helping in certain popular ways or don’t feel like helping? How do you awaken in yourself the desire to serve if it isn’t there or if it is covered by fear? Jesus asks the same question of the Pharisees in Matthew 12:34: “ ‘How can you speak good, when you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks’ ” (ESV).

We cannot give what we do not have and have not experienced. Jesus confirms this as He continues in verse 35, “ ‘The good person out of his good treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil’ ” (ESV). If we have a heart filled with good, we can give to others. So how do we have a heart that is filled enough to serve others?

Spend time reading the Bible and listening to God. The only way we can recognize Jesus in the least of these is by spending time with Him and letting Him speak to us through His Word. Our relationship with God will change our hearts so that we want to serve others.

Ask God to show you the least of these around you. We must also look for God in our daily life. He may be asking you to give time at a homeless shelter, talk to the person at work or school whom people avoid, pay for someone’s meal or fuel, or just speak an encouraging word. If He calls us, however, we must be ready to answer.

Make knowing God your priority. Knowing Him will transform you so that you can serve the least of these.

When we have a relationship with Jesus, reaching out to those around us will come naturally to us. When Jesus commends the sheep for their service to Him in Matthew 25, they are baffled. They don’t remember doing any of the things that Jesus claims they did. It seems that these righteous people didn’t even notice they were serving; they simply served because it was who they were. Before we can give the treasures of God’s love and grace to others, we must first be filled to overflowing ourselves.

**React**

`1. Why do you find it hard to serve others?`

`2. How has knowing God changed you from who you used to be?`

`3. Have you noticed a correlation between your relationship with Jesus and how you relate to others?`

---

_J-Fiah Reeves, Gilbert, Arizona, USA_