---
title:  Hitler’s Health Message
date:  22/08/2019
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 5:8

Speaking on behalf of many German and Austrian Adventist churches of the day, Wilhelm Mueller wrote in 1933 that Hitler “has his office from the hand of God, and . . . knows himself to be responsible to Him. As an anti-alcoholic, non-smoker, and vegetarian, he is closer to our own view of health reform than anybody else.”1

Vegetarianism is a good thing. It has been linked to lower rates of heart disease, many cancers, and type 2 diabetes mellitus.2 As a ministry vehicle, it has helped usher thousands to our churches for health seminars. And for the good stewards of the planet and its population, one study estimated that worldwide adoption of a vegetarian diet could save 7.3 million lives by the year 2050 due to the decreased environmental impact of vegetarian food growing practices.3 However, vegetarianism can engender unpleasant feelings. A well-meaning newcomer who brings a meat dish to an after-church potluck may feel ostracized when their dish is not served.

Pride should never motivate evangelism. Pride should never motivate our interactions with “the least of these.” But how often are we motivated by the kind of selfless love demonstrated in Jesus’ interactions with “the least of these”? Has it instead emerged from a desire to feel better about ourselves? Jesus did not serve “the least of these” in order to feel better about Himself. His charity was motivated by a desire for each person’s wholeness.

Followers of Jesus should do likewise and love every soul simply for its own sake. Love, just because. That’s how He loves.

**React**

`1. Does Jesus want to interact with someone who is hopelessly lost?`

`2. Is it possible to do more harm than good when we endeavor to help the “least of these”?`

---

<sup>1. R. Cooter, “The Nazi War on Cancer,” British Medical Journal 320 (March 11, 2000): 721; Wilhelm Mueller, “Berlin, Ende August 1933,” AEA, Ul2, no. 0113. The German and Austrian churches have since publicly apologized, as noted in Mark A. Kellner, “Europe: German, Austrian Churches Apologize for Holocaust Actions,” Adventist New Network, August 15, 2005, https://news.adventist.org/en/all-news/news/go/2005-08-15/europe-german-austrian-churches -apologize-for-holocaust-actions/.</sup>

<sup>2. Harvard Women’s Health Watch, “Becoming a Vegetarian,” Harvard Health Publishing, updated December 4, 2017, https://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/becoming-a-vegetarian.</sup>

<sup>3. Marco Springmann et al., “Analysis and Valuation of the Health and Climate Change Cobenefits of Dietary Change,” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 113, no. 15 (April 12, 2016), http://www.pnas.org/content/113/15/4146.</sup>

_David Deemer, Loma Linda, California, USA_