---
title:  Same Storybook, Just a Different Page
date:  23/08/2019
---

**Exploration**: Eccles. 7:20; Eph. 4:1, 2

**Conclude**

“Surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins” (Eccles. 7:20, ESV). All of us are in need of a savior. All of us need help at times. We are the body of Christ—created beautifully to support each other without pride or looking down on one another. And what an honor it is to be a part of something bigger than ourselves. “Walk . . . with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love” (Eph. 4:1, 2, ESV). That “small” act of compassion could make all the difference in the world. So let’s actively look to see how we can make a positive difference.

**Consider**

- Looking for a local chapter of Amnesty International. This organization is a great way to be behind the scenes for the cause of social justice and meet other people with similar interests. “Through petitions, letters and protests, campaigners worldwide press for action from the people and institutions who can make change happen.”1
- Working together as a group to serve people in your community. There are plenty of traditional ways to be of service. But brainstorm creatively. For example, one church group went to a grocery store (in an area with lower incomes) and used the money they had raised to surprise customers by buying their groceries.
- Praying a special prayer every morning for the next week. Ask God for a giving and willing spirit to have your eyes and heart open to the people you come in contact with and how to make their day extra special.
- Serving the people closest to you. It’s easy to forget to show special attention to our own family and roommates. Surprise someone close to you with a special dinner or act of kindness that they would especially appreciate.
- Searching at a local bookstore or online for a good read that will help inspire you to action in the world around you.
- Getting people together for a movie night and watching an inspirational documentary about people making a difference in other countries, such as the 2013 documentary Blood Brother.


**Connect**

Proverbs 3:7; 29:23; 31:8, 9; Isaiah 1:17; Zechariah 7:9, 10; Matthew 25:31–46; Colossians 3:12.

Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chap. 79, “ ‘It Is Finished.’ ”

---

_Cassi Fitzpatrick, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA_