---
title:  The Gospel and the Church
date:   16/09/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith” (Gal. 6:10, ESV).

**Introduction**: Matt. 22:34–40; John 13:34

**Perfect or Real?**

_Perfect: “Entirely without any flaws, defects, or shortcomings.”1_

_Real: “Actual rather than imaginary, ideal, or fictitious.”2_

Why start off with definitions of these two words? Interestingly, although they are not antonyms, it is literally impossible to be both at the same time.The bottom line is that nothing is perfect in reality, nor is anything real perfect; yet one thing contradicts this philosophy—God.

**I am thankful that I am loved unconditionally by Jesus.**

Humans, who were created in the image of God, are obviously imperfect. In Matthew 26, Peter denied Jesus three times, and yet it was Peter who was given the grand mission of growing, developing, and leading the early Christian church. Even Jesus, who was perfect, was persecuted for the radical message that seemed to rub hard against traditional Jewish teaching.What was so radical about this message? Does Jesus want us to live imperfect lives knowing we are slaves to sin? Or does He demand perfection in a world where that is impossible? Neither is correct.

Although God knows we are not perfect, He gives us the freedom to make choices regarding the way we relate to each other and then gives us divine counsel as to the best choices we can possibly make.Trying to be perfect and striving toward perfection under God are very different things. Jesus calls us to strive toward a Christlike perfection: “ ‘A new command I give you: Love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another’ ” (John 13:34, NIV). The human endeavor for perfection is one of loving. God has created us naturally to enjoy caring for one another. I am thankful that I am loved unconditionally by Jesus. Being loved is the best feeling in the world, and to love someone else is just as pleasing.

When challenged by the Pharisees to select the most important of all commandments, Jesus answered, “ ‘ “Love the Lord your God.” . . .“Love your neighbor as yourself.” All the Law and the Prophets hang on these two commandments’ ” (Matt.22:37–40, NIV).As you study the themes of this week’s lesson, first ask yourself with each lesson, how can this concept help me to better know and love God? Second, ask how what you have studied can be applied to the human relationships in your life.

<sup>1. Dictionary.com, s.v. “perfect,” accessed May 24, 2016, http://www.dictionary.com/browse/perfect?s=t.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., s.v. “real,” accessed May 24, 2016, http://www.dictionary.com/browse/real?s=t.</sup>

_Brooke Ho, Lake Tapps, Washington, USA_