---
title:  Hang On or Give Up
date:   17/09/2017
---

**Logos**: 2 Chron. 36:16–20; Jer. 20:7; Matt. 11:28–30

**The Burden of the Call** (Jer. 20:7)

Have you ever been called into a hopeless situation or been confronted with a very difficult task? Such was the very definition of Jeremiah’s call: “ ‘O Lord, Youinduced me,andIwaspersuaded;/You are strongerthan I,and haveprevailed. / I am in derision daily; / Everyone mocks me’ ” (Jer. 20:7, NKJV). Often a call to ministry is not easy, but the degree of difficulty should never determine whether or not our calling is legitimate.Jeremiah passionately expressed these words to the Lord as he wrestled with the nature of his call.

Actually, in the book of Jeremiah, there are various confessions, or lamentations, to the Lord where, in each passage, Jeremiah pours out his frustrations and burdens as they relate to the tremendously hard call put upon him by the Lord.* Jeremiah was called upon to minister to a people who wanted nothing to do with him or his prophetic messages.

Jeremiah somehow found strength to move forward in his ministry despite overwhelming emotion and frustration with his call. He continued to love his people, though they mocked and persecuted him.The life story of Jeremiah is sad with a sad ending. However, the faithfulness of Jeremiah to God’s call in his life is perhaps the most inspiring in all Scripture.

**With Jesus pulling on the yoke along with us, . . . our work for Him will carry exponential blessings for the kingdom.**

**The Judgment of Jerusalem** (2 Chron. 36:16–20)

Just before the fall of Jerusalem, the author of 2 Chronicles observes that the people “mocked the messengers of God, despised His words, and scoffed at His prophets, until the wrath of the Lord arose against His people, till there was no remedy” (2 Chron. 36:16, NKJV). After this, the Lord called upon the enemy of Jerusalem, the Chaldeans—the ruling class of the Babylonians—to attack and to obliterate Jerusalem totally.

The key here is that the hearts of the Israelites ran cold to the word of the Lord.They stopped caring.Sin is a degenerative condition that starts out small, even controllable, but if not surrendered to God, it grows and overtakes the very fundamental orientation of our hearts.A second chilling observation here is that the Lord called on the enemies of the Israelites to destroy Jerusalem. The interpretation of this text illustrates the fact that when we completely surrender to sin, the Lord has no choice but to withdraw His spiritual protections; not because He doesn’t want to protect us, but because we have turned our backs on that protection.

**Sowing and Reaping** (Luke 22:3; Acts 5:1–5)

The book of Luke makes a statement that can be very troubling: “Then Satan entered Judas, surnamed Iscariot, who was numbered among the twelve” (Luke 22:3, NKJV).How could it be possible for Satan to literally enter the heart of a man who spent years in Jesus’ inner circle? This is a chilling lesson. Not only is it important for us to be close to the Lord, but our hearts need to be fortified by Jesus. Judas spent years physically close to Jesus, but his heart was never fully surrendered to the Lord. This was the chink in his spiritual armor that let Satan in.

In Acts, we again see this troubling characteristic when Peter asks Ananias, “ ‘Why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit . . . ?’ ” (Acts 5:3, NKJV).A cosmic spiritual battle is laced into our day-to-day life in ways that are both overt and subtle. It can be easy to overlook critical areas of our life that are in need of Jesus.Similarly, we may cling to habits and actions that make us feel good at the expense of a full surrender to Christ. But this is not a message about our works, it is about our hearts.

**Exponential Blessings** (Matt. 11:28–30)

While there can be a heavy feeling connected with the themes and verses in this lesson;there should not be.While bearing heavy burdens is an unavoidable characteristic of this life, Jesus promises us that He is always willing to walk next to us, helping us shoulder our burdens. “ ‘Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For My yoke is easy and My burden is light’ ” (Matt. 11:28–30, NKJV). The illustration is clear. An ox can only do so much work alone, yet when yoked with another ox, the work accomplished doesn’t just double, it increases exponentially.

To accept Jesus fully and to yoke with Him in life will not exempt us from painful situations. This partnership may even lead us into a ministry calling that seems overwhelming and impossible. But with Jesus pulling on the yoke along with us, we will not only make it through, but our work for Him will carry exponential blessings for the kingdom.

**React**

`1. Focusing on the beauty of yoking with the Lord, what is one experience in your life that you can identify that was very difficult but was overcome through your relationship with Jesus?`

`2. Like Jeremiah, we are sometimes called to do hard things for Christ. Can you identify such a calling in your past or perhaps in your future?`

`3. Taking a personal inventory of your life, are there any areas that you would like to surrender or re-surrender to the Lord?`

<sup>* Some include Jer. 11:18–23; 12:1–4; 15:10–12, 15–21; 17:14–18; 18:19–23; 20:7–18.</sup>

_Meggan Nicole, Lake Tapps, Washington, USA_