---
title:  A Life Holy—Worth Living
date:   18/09/2017
---

**Testimony**: Matt. 18:15–17

“Human beings are Christ’s property, purchased by Him at an infinite price, bound to Him by the love that He and His Father have manifested for them. How careful, then, we should be in our dealing with one another! . . . Mistakes are made and injustice is done because of an unwillingness on the part of some one to follow the directions given by the Lord Jesus.”1

“Whatever the character of the offense, this does not change the plan that God has made for the settlement of misunderstandings and personal injuries. Speaking alone and in the spirit of Christ to the one who is in fault will often remove the difficulty. Go to the erring one, with a heart filled with Christ’s love and sympathy, and seek to adjust the matter. Reason with him calmly and quietly.Let no angry words escape your lips.Speak in a way that will appeal to his better judgment. Remember the words: ‘He which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins.’ James 5:20.”2

“How careful, then, we should be in our dealing with one another!”

“ ‘If thy brother shall trespass against thee,’ Christ declared, ‘go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone.’ Matthew 18:15. Do not tell others of the wrong. One person is told, then another, and still another; and continually the report grows, and the evil increases, till the whole church is made to suffer. Settle the matter ‘between thee and him alone.’This is God’s plan.‘Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbor hath put thee to shame. Debate thy cause with thy neighbor himself; and discover not a secret to another.’ Proverbs 25:8, 9. Do not suffer sin upon your brother; but do not expose him, and thus increase the difficulty, making the reproof seem like a revenge. Correct him in the way outlined in the word of God.”3

**React**

`1. Is there someone in your life that you need to reach out to, a relative, a friend, a co-worker, or a teacher?`

`2. How does looking at people through the eyes of Christ change the way that we relate to people who are operating outside the boundaries of what we think is acceptable Christian behavior?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers (1915), p. 498.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, p. 261.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., pp. 260, 261.</sup>

_Lizzie Mattson, Lake Tapps, Washington, USA_