---
title:  Let Us Do Good
date:   20/09/2017
---

**How-to**: Gal. 5:15; 6:9, 10

“Carry each other’s burdens” (Gal.6:2, NIV).“Why Lord,” I ask, “when I have so many burdens of my own?” Most days are filled with all the burdens of life: waking up at the crack of dawn, sitting in mind-numbing traffic to get to school or work, homework, not enough sleep, the list is never ending. Patience wears thin. We find ourselves bickering with our spouse, roommate, teachers, boss, or even our fellow church members. Taking on others’ burdens or even asking how someone is doing can seem daunting. But what happens when we choose to do good for someone else? How does that make us feel?

**In short, engage.**

Sharing eases our burdens. When we put others before ourselves, we are reflecting the image of Jesus Christ. Jesus walked this earth every day taking on others’ burdens, ultimatelyreleasing themon the cross.“Let usnotbecome weary in doing good, for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up” (verse 9, NIV). Patience with our brothers and sisters in Christ is showing love and respect for them just as we would show love and respect to anyone in our own families. Sharing our burdens with others shows that we can humble ourselves and lets others open up their hearts to us in the same manner. It also makes us more kindhearted, sympathetic, and Christlike.

We need to love one another, leaning on one another in times of need. Helping others should not give us a sense of pride or boastfulness but a feeling of God-given joy. Our faith is perfected by our works, not the other way around. If serving leads to pride, then the service we render is not being practiced with a heart of God. However, if out of our deep appreciation for God’s love for us we return that love to those around us, pride will not even enter the picture.

So how do we find this joy in helping others or sharing their burdens? One way is just to talk to people—no hidden agenda, no special polished speech. Just talk, and not just to your friends and close acquaintances, but find others outside your circle and engage: perhaps with an elderly person whose spouse has died, or someone you have had unpleasant words with in the past.Identify a damaged or broken relationship and take the first step in mending fences. Reach out to an individual who is very different from you and get to know their personal story. In short, engage.

**React**

`1. How can we find ways to humble ourselves and be of service to others, sharing their burdens?`

`2. Compare physical burdens to mental burdens.`

_Alethea Miller, Graham, Washington, USA_