---
title:  Lord, Whom Shall I Serve?
date:   21/09/2017
---

**Opinion**: Gal. 6:10

Perhaps one of the most difficult Christian concepts to live is found in Galatians 6:10. The verse commands us to go to all people in service, not just to those who are like-minded or who share the same philosophical bent. All people.That is difficult.

This could present an overwhelming difficulty if it were not for the love of Christ.

We live in a world that stratifies the people in it.We label and group others into categories that make it easier for us to operate and negotiate society. But the book of Galatians instructs us to serve everyone, regardless of their place in society. This verse also challenges us to serve without regard for others’feelings toward us or our feelings toward them.This could present an overwhelming difficulty if it were not for the love of Christ.

It is only when we realize the deep and astonishing reality that despite our sinfulness, God loved and died for us so that we can then turn to society and see all people through loving eyes.

There is, however, a troubling line in Galatians 6:10 when Paul says to serve all, but “especially . . . those who belong to the family of believers” (NIV). We must remember, at the time of Paul’s letter, the Christian church was small, fragile, radical, and largely illegal.While Paul’s writing clearly calls followers of Christ to serve all people, Paul is also concerned with these small new Christian communities pulling close together in order to withstand the pressures of the prevailing society.

How is it with us today? Drawing on Paul’s counsel to the church in Galatia, our commission is indeed to serve all segments of our stratified society with the love and zeal of Christ. But we are also to pull close, in a special relationship, to our church body as a means of connecting and building up our collective faith.

**React**

`1. How can you actively serve others today?`

`2. How much time are you dedicating to service in your nonchurch community and how much time are you dedicating to service in your church community?`

`3. What individual or group might you be overlooking in your community? How can you develop a strategy to reach them personally and as a church?`

_Julia Armstrong, Auburn, Washington, USA_