---
title:  Love Covers All
date:   22/09/2017
---

**Exploration**: Gal. 6:10

**Conclude**

It is comforting to know that we are all God’s children and are not, regardless of our age, His grandchildren. This leaves us with a little more than 7.4 billion brothers and sisters worldwide whom we are advised by God to love and teach of Him.We will never meet, have the opportunity to be good to, or even share the love of God with most of them. However we do have the privilege of being able to demonstrate “goodness” to the family members closest to us; they include all whom we see and interact with on a regular basis. But Paul admonishes us in Galatians 6:10 to do“good”to everyone, especially those in the family of faith.Let us extend love, compassion, forgiveness, mercy, and grace to one another; let us bear one another’s burden because it is the true and living gospel.

**Consider**

- Drawing, painting, or making a collage depicting what the church practicing the principle in Galatians 6:10—doing good “unto all men,” especially those in the “household of faith”—might look like.
- Writing a short poem or story describing ways in which we can be more patient and compassionate with one another in church.
- Listening to the hymns “’Tis Love That Makes Us Happy” or “Love at Home” (nos. 579 and 652 respectively in the Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal). Look for how either of them relates to the key principle of doing good for all of society, especially fellow church members.
- Organizing an activity for your class outside of the church setting to get to know and understand your class members better.
- Meditating on the week’s theme of doing good “unto all men,” especially those in the “household of faith.” Contemplate ways you can do “good” in and around your community and local church.
- Creating a short skit depicting how we can bear one another’s burdens as a church family.
- Looking at how related animals interact with one another. What lessons can we learn in dealing with one another in church?

**Connect**

- Matthew 5:43; 1 Thessalonians 5:15; 1 Peter 4:8; Hebrews 13:16.
- Ellen G. White, Acts of the Apostles, chapter 1, “God’s Purpose for His Church”; chapter 3,  “The Great Commission.”
- Greg Gilbert, What Is the Gospel? (Crossway, 2010), chapter 7.
- Raymond C. Ortlund Jr., The Gospel: How the Church Portrays the Beauty of Christ (Crossway, 2014), chapter 2.

_Nadine Joseph, Brooklyn, New York, USA_