---
title:  Prelude to Rest
date:  22/08/2021
---

God was there at the beginning. The Lord God spoke, and it was. Light divided day from night; firmament, sky, and seas were spoken into existence on the second day; dry land and vegetation followed on the third. God formed the basic framework of time and geography, and then He filled it during the next three days. Lights governed the sky by day and by night. Different from the stories of most ancient cultures, the biblical Creation account makes it abundantly clear that the sun, the moon, and the stars are not deities. They entered into the picture only on the fourth day and are subject to the Creator’s word.

Moses’ description of days five and six (Gen. 1:20–31) is full of life and beauty. Birds, fish, land animals—they all fill the space prepared by God.

`What did God’s evaluation indicate about Creation? Read Genesis 1:1–31.`

This was not just any space that God had created; it was a perfect place. Teeming creatures filled the earth. Like the refrain of a catchy tune, God kept saying that it was “good” after each day.

`What was different about the creation of humanity from the rest of the world? Read Genesis 1:26, 27 and Genesis 2:7, 21–24.`

God stooped and began to shape mud. Humanity’s creation in God’s image and likeness was an object lesson in intimacy and closeness. God bent down and breathed life into Adam’s nostrils, and there was a living being. Eve’s special creation from Adam’s rib added another important element to Creation week. Marriage was part of God’s design for humanity—a sacred trust of partnership between ’ish and ’ishshah, “man” and “woman.”

This time, when God looked at everything He had made on day six, the refrain sounded different: “Then God saw everything that He had made, and indeed it was very good” (Gen. 1:31, NKJV; italics supplied).

`Think about how radically different the biblical Creation story is from what humanity, without the guidance of God’s Word, teaches. What should this tell us about how much we need to depend on God’s Word for understanding truth?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The earth came forth from the hand of the Creator exceedingly beautiful. There were mountains and hills and plains; and interspersed among them were rivers and bodies of water. The earth was not one extensive plain, but the monotony of the scenery was broken by hills and mountains, not high and ragged as they now are, but regular and beautiful in shape. The bare, high rocks were never seen upon them, but lay beneath the surface, answering as bones to the earth. The waters were regularly dispersed. The hills, mountains, and very beautiful plains were adorned with plants and flowers, and tall, majestic trees of every description, which were many times larger and much more beautiful than trees now are. The air was pure and healthful, and the earth seemed like a noble palace. Angels beheld and rejoiced at the wonderful and beautiful works of God.—_Lift Him Up_, p. 47.

Man was the crowning act of the creation of God, made in the image of God, and designed to be a counterpart of God; but Satan has labored to obliterate the image of God in man, and to imprint upon him his own image. Man is very dear to God, because he was formed in His own image. …

In order to understand the value which God places upon man, we need to comprehend the plan of redemption, the costly sacrifice which our Saviour made to save the human race from eternal ruin. Jesus died to regain possession of the one pearl of great price. …

The Lord gave His only begotten Son to ransom us from sin. We are His workmanship, we are His representatives in the world, and He expects that we shall reveal the true value of man by our purity of life, and the earnest efforts put forth to recover the pearl of great price. Our character is to be modeled after the divine similitude, and to be reformed by that faith that works by love and purifies the soul. The grace of God will beautify, ennoble, and sanctify the character. The servant of the Lord who works intelligently will be successful.—_Lift Him Up_, p. 48.

Jesus pointed His hearers back to the marriage institution as ordained at creation. … He referred them to the blessed days of Eden, when God pronounced all things “very good.” Then marriage and the Sabbath had their origin, twin institutions for the glory of God in the benefit of humanity. Then, as the Creator joined the hands of the holy pair in wedlock, saying, A man shall “leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one” (Genesis 2:24), He enunciated the law of marriage for all the children of Adam to the close of time. That which the Eternal Father Himself had pronounced good was the law of highest blessing and development for man.—_Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, p. 63.