---
title:  The Seven Last Troubles
date:   09/03/2019
---

_When people turn away fully from Bible truth and accept Babylon’s lies, they are full of Babylon’s wine or false teachings._

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Revelation 15; 16.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “ ‘All people will fear [honor] you, O Lord. All people will praise your name. Only you are holy. All people will come and worship before [in front of] you, because it is clear that you do what is right’ ” (Revelation 15:4, ERV).

**WHAT IS IN THE HEARTS** of humans before they fight the last war against God’s people? Revelation 11:18 shows us. The people on earth “ ‘were filled with wrath [anger]’ ” (NLT). These words match Jesus’ words in Luke 21:25, 26 about the end times. People on earth will turn away from God. They will support Babylon and drink her “wine.” Babylon is a symbol for false religion. Babylon’s wine is a word picture for false teachings. When people turn away fully from Bible truth and accept Babylon’s lies, they are full of Babylon’s wine or false teachings. Babylon will make everyone who does not obey God drink her wine. After that happens, God pours out all His anger against sin. God’s anger is shown in the Seven Last Troubles, or Plagues, that fall on the earth. Revelation 15 starts with seven angels. Each angel has a bowl filled with God’s anger. But before the angels pour God’s anger on the earth, we see a picture of God’s loyal people standing on a sea made of glass in heaven (Revelation 15:1–4). They refused to accept the special stamp, or mark, of the wild sea animal’s power. So, God protected them on earth from the Seven Last Troubles.