---
title:  What Do The Seven Last Troubles Mean?
date:   10/03/2019
---

_God mixed His love with the troubles from the Seven Trumpets._

A time will come when every person on earth will decide to serve God or Babylon. Babylon, as we saw, is a word picture for false religion. After everyone chooses, Jesus will be ready to come back. But before He comes back, the angels who stopped the four winds from blowing on the earth (Revelation 7:1–3) will let the winds go.

`Read about the Seven Last Troubles, or Plagues, in Revelation 15:1. How do the Egyptian plagues (Exodus 7–11) help us understand the reason for the Seven Last Troubles?`

Why does the Bible say that the Seven Last Troubles are the very last troubles that happen on earth? The Seven Last Troubles happen after the troubles shown with the Seven Trumpets. We already learned that the Seven Trumpets show us the things that happened, or will happen, in the church from John’s time until Jesus comes back. So, that means the Seven Trumpets explain the troubles that happen while God’s people preach the Good News (Revelation 10:8–11:14) during the time that Jesus works for sinners in heaven (Revelation 8:2–5). God mixes His love with the troubles from the Seven Trumpets during that time. God pours out these troubles to help His enemies turn back to Him. Right before Jesus comes back, God will pour the Seven Last Troubles on the people on earth who made their hearts “hard” against Him (Revelation 16:11; Romans 1:26–28). God will not mix the Seven Last Troubles with mercy. The people who turned away from God now will suffer for their choices.

`Revelation 15:5–8 show us the seven angels who will pour out the Seven Last Troubles. Revelation 15:8 says, “no one was able to enter the temple” (AMP). What do these words tell us about when the Seven Last Troubles will happen?`

The words “no one was able to enter the temple” show us the time when Jesus’ work in heaven for sinners will stop. When His work ends, the chance for people to turn away from sin is over. Then God will pour the Seven Last Troubles on the earth. So, the Seven Last Troubles will not help anyone to turn back to God. The Seven Last Troubles will show only the hate that is in the hearts of Babylon’s followers. The Seven Last Troubles will cause Babylon’s followers to hate God even more.