---
title:  God Pours His Anger On The Earth
date:   11/03/2019
---

_The 1st Trouble is painful sores that break out all over the bodies of the peo­ ple who worship the wild sea­animal power._

When Jesus finally finishes His work for sinners in heaven, the time will be finished for people on the earth to accept Him. By this time, everyone already has made a decision to worship either God or the wild sea-animal power. Every deci- sion is now final. Now the time comes for the God-haters on earth to experience God’s full anger against sin, because they refused to believe His Good News.

In many ways, the Seven Last Troubles, or Plagues, match the Ten Plagues that God poured on Egypt (Exodus 7–11). The last seven Egyptian Plagues hurt only the Egyptians, but the plagues did not touch God’s people. In the same way, God’s people will stay safe during the Time of Trouble (Psalm 91:3–10; read also Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], pages 629, 630). The Egyptian plagues showed everyone Pharaoh’s “hard” heart. God sent the plagues to show the Egyptians that their gods had no power to save them. In the same way, the Seven Last Troubles show everyone the “hard” hearts of the wild sea animal’s followers. The Seven Last Troubles also show God’s enemies that Babylon cannot save them from God’s anger.

`What happens in Revelation 16:1–11? What word pic­ tures does Revelation use to show us the things that happen?`

Ellen G. White tells us that Troubles #1–4 “cannot be worldwide or everyone on the earth will die.”—The Great Controversy, page 628, adapted. The 1st Trouble is painful sores that break out all over the bodies of the people who worship the wild sea-animal power. The 2nd Trouble and the 3rd Trouble turn the waters on the earth to blood. The 4th Trouble causes the sun to become very hot so that it burns people and causes them awful pain. But the pain caused by Troubles #1–4 does not turn the humans who hate God back to Him or change their hearts. They curse God and do not honor Him. They continue to sin.

In Revelation 16:10, 11 (read also Exodus 10:21–23), we see that the 5th Trouble attacks the wild sea animal’s throne. Satan himself gave the wild sea animal his throne (Revelation 13:2). This throne is a symbol of Satan’s power. As people suffer in pain, they learn that Babylon cannot protect them. But not even the fear of the Seven Last Troubles will change their “hard” and evil hearts.