---
title:  The Euphrates River Dries Up
date:   12/03/2019
---

_The dried­up river is a word picture that shows us that God will end Babylon’s power._

`Read about the Euphrates River in Revelation 16:12. (Also read Revelation 17:1, 15).What is the Euphrates River a word picture for? What does it mean in the book of Revelation when the Euphrates River dries up? How is the dry river connected to the Seven Last Troubles?`

In the Old Testament, we see that the Euphrates River is important to Israel’s enemies, Assyria and Babylon (Isaiah 7:20; Jeremiah 46:10). The river flows in the middle of the city of Babylon. The river is important to the city because it feeds the crops and gives water to people. Babylon cannot live without the Euphrates River.

Revelation 17:1 shows us end-time Babylon as a woman. She sits on many “waters.” It is possible that these waters are the Euphrates River (read Jeremiah 51:13). Revelation 17:15 explains that the waters where Babylon sits are a word picture for the people who support Babylon.These people are the governments and powers who are connected with Babylon. But in the end, these powers will turn away from her and stop supporting her.

The 6th Trouble helps us remember the Old Testament story about the time when Cyrus the Persian (read Daniel 5) and his army came to the city of Babylon. A history expert named Herodotus wrote about what Cyrus did. Herodotus lived during Old Testament times. Herodotus says that King Belshazzar of Babylon had a feast. On that same night, the Persians caused the Euphrates River to flow in a different direction. Then the Persians entered the city by walking on the empty riverbed and surprised everyone in Babylon.

Revelation 16:12 says that the Euphrates River will dry up. The dried-up river is a word picture that shows us that God will end Babylon’s power. Remember, the Euphrates River is a word picture for the support that worldwide powers give Babylon. So, when the Euphrates River dries up, it shows us that these pow- ers stop supporting Babylon. As people on the earth see the awful things happening in nature (Revelation 16:3–9), they turn to Babylon to protect them. But then the 5th Trouble attacks the cen- ter of Babylon’s power (Revelation 16:10, 11, ERV). The powers who support Babylon see that she cannot protect them. But their hate for God makes them blind. They attack Babylon and cause her power to end. But their hearts do not change. That is why Satan can trick them to join his last worldwide war against God. Then Satan and the evil people on earth try to destroy God’s people completely.