---
title:  SAtan’S Last Big Lie
date:   13/03/2019
---

_The kings from the east in Revelation 16:12 are Jesus and His army of angels._

Revelation 16:12 tells us that the reason the Euphrates River dries up is “to make a road for the kings from the east” (CEV). In the Old Testament, the “kings from the east” were Cyrus and his army coming from the north and then turning east to fight against Babylon (read Isaiah 41:25). Cyrus and his army beat Babylon. Their win helped God’s people to go back to their home in Jerusalem (Isaiah 44:27, 28). In the same way, the word picture of the Euphrates River drying up shows us that the kings from the east are coming to save God’s end-time people from danger.

The kings from the east in Revelation 16:12 are Jesus and His army of angels. At His Second Coming, Jesus will appear with His angels (Revelation 15:6; Revelation 19:8). Revelation 17:14 shows us that in the battle of Armageddon, Jesus and His army of angels will beat Satan and his army who hurt God’s people.

`Revelation 16:13, 14 show us demons that look the same as frogs. What work will these demons do to help Satan’s plans for the last war of this earth’s history?`

When the Euphrates River “dries up,” Satan and his evil team of worldwide powers lose people’s support. That is when John sees demons that look the same as frogs come out of the “mouths” of these worldwide powers. In the Egyptian troubles, frogs are the last plague that God sends against Egypt that Pharaoh’s magicians can copy (Exodus 8:1–15). So, the frogs that come out of the mouths of these evil powers show us that the last work that Satan will do is copy the work of God.

What work is that? Satan gives his evil team power to do miracles the same as Jesus did when He lived on earth. You will remember that Satan’s evil team includes: (1) the dragon (false religions and the belief that dead people communicate with the living); (2) the wild sea animal (the Roman Catholic Church); and (3) the false messenger (Protestant churches that turned away from Bible truth). The miracles that these three powers do are part of Satan’s end-time plan to trick the people on earth so that they will join him in the war against God’s people. Yes, the leaders on the earth feel tricked and fooled. But they join Satan anyway. When that happens, everything is ready for the big war that will cause the end of this earth’s history. The name of this big war is the battle of Armageddon.