---
title:  The Battle Of Armageddon
date:   14/03/2019
---

_Fire came down from heaven to Elijah’s altar to show everyone that the Lord was the only true God._

`Revelation 16:16 shows us that evil spirits trick the kings on the earth to fight the battle of Armageddon. How can Satan trick all the evil people on earth to join him in this big war before Jesus comes back?`

Demons will do miracles to trick people all over the earth so that they will join Satan’s army. These miracles will be a big success worldwide. How can Satan trick so many people? Because they already turned away from the Good News about Jesus. That makes it easy for people to believe Satan’s lies. Satan’s demons do many false miracles to make their lies seem true (read 2 Thessalonians 2:9–12). These lies cause the evil people on earth to join Satan’s war.

The name of the place where the last war will happen is named Armageddon. In the Hebrew language, Armageddon means “mountain of Megiddo.” Now, it is important to understand that Armageddon is a word picture in the book of Revelation. But in Old Testament times, there was a real city named Megiddo. It was a very strong city. It was built in a place named the Jezreel Valley on the Esdraelon Plain, which was near a very high hill named Mount Carmel. Megiddo was a very important place during Israel’s history. John uses Armageddon as a word picture to show us that the people on the earth will join Satan against God.

John also uses the name “mountain of Megiddo” as a word picture for Mount Carmel. Israel fought a very important bat- tle here. There, God’s messenger Elijah fought against the religious leaders of the god Baal (1 Kings 18). They fought about who was the true God. Fire came down from heaven to Elijah’s altar to show everyone that the Lord was the only true God. The fire showed that humans should worship only God. Revelation 13:13, 14 show us that before the Seven Last Troubles fall on the earth, the wild land-animal power will make fire fall from heaven to copy what God did at Mount Carmel. This false miracle will trick the people on the earth so that they make a law to keep Sunday holy.

Remember, Armageddon is not a real war that people will fight somewhere in the Middle East. It is a spiritual war between Jesus and Satan’s army (read 2 Corinthians 10:4). The war will show everyone who is the true leader in heaven and on earth and over all the planets forever. We need only to look at what happened at Mount Carmel to know how this war will end: Jesus wins. Satan loses.