---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   15/03/2019
---

_“The people will bow down in front of Satan because they think he is Jesus.” —Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 624, adapted._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: “People who make their minds strong with Bible truth will be the only ones who stay loyal to God in the end times. . . . Paul warned us about how bad things will be in the end times: ‘The time will come when peo- ple will not listen to the truth. They will look for teachers who will tell them only what they want to hear’ (2 Timothy 4:3, NLV). That time is now here. The people on the earth do not want Bible truth. Why? Because Bible truth makes them feel guilty for loving sin and the things on this earth. Satan gives them the lies they love to believe.

“But God will have a loyal people on the earth who follow the Bible and the Bible only. The Bible has the final say over all that they believe and do. . . .

“Satan has a long history of trying to trick people. But what will his last trick be? Satan will pretend to be Jesus Himself. Christians everywhere for a long time said that Jesus’ coming was their biggest hope. They believe that everything Jesus promised them will happen at the Second Coming. Satan is a big liar. He will act the same as Jesus. In different places on earth, Satan will show himself to humans. He will act as a king who shines with brightness. He will look the same as Jesus in the picture that John gives us in Revelation 1:13–15. Human eyes have never seen anything that looks the same as the glory that will cover Satan. There will be shouts of celebration: ‘Jesus has come! Jesus has come!’ The people will bow down in front of Satan because they think he is Jesus. . . . Satan will speak in a sweet and loving voice. He will say some of the same truths that Jesus said. Satan will heal people’s diseases. While Satan pretends to be Jesus, Satan will tell people that he changed the Sabbath to Sunday. He commands everyone on earth to keep holy the day that he blessed: Sunday. He will announce that anyone who continues to keep holy the 7th day does not show respect to his name. Satan will blame these people for the troubles happening on the earth. Why? Because this group refuses to obey his angels or believe their false messages. That is Satan’s strong lie that is almost too powerful.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], pages 593–595, 624, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTION**:

`1. How does the message to Laodicea help God’s people at the end time get ready for the last battle?`