---
title:  To Know God Is to Know Justice
date:  06/07/2019
---

**Introduction**: Prov. 31:8; Mic. 6:8; Zech. 7:9, 10; John 13:34, 35

In the past few hundred years, it seems that humanity has made great strides toward justice and equality for all people. We have witnessed the human rights movement (1899–1920), the black lives matter movement (2013) and the #MeToo movement (2017). However, when we look at our world in its current state, with political oppression, racial and educational inequality, economic injustice, exploitation, and violations of all kinds toward those most vulnerable, it is evident that we are far from God’s ideal.

We fall short because our justice system and our human ideas about social justice are inherently flawed. We cannot exercise justice correctly with our secular laws while ignoring the justice Giver and the Creator of all that is fair. We realize that in the grand scheme of things, only God can deliver ultimate justice to this wicked world when He returns. Yet, we recognize that we must be actively engaged in all aspects of social justice as followers of the One who is perfectly just.

Our knowledge and understanding of God are reflected by how much we share His passion for justice.

His instructions to us while we are on this earth are to care for the vulnerable and to demonstrate His character through our loving actions.

In Micah 6:8 God tells us, “He has shown you, O mortal, what is good. And what does the Lord require of you? To act justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with your God” (NIV). Here God is telling us to take action when we see injustice. It is not optional for God’s people; it is an integral part of who we should be.

To take it further, acting justly is to “speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves, for the rights of all who are destitute” (Prov. 31:8, NIV) and to base our lives on love toward God and man. Take it from Him: “ ‘ “Administer true justice; show mercy and compassion to one another. Do not oppress the widow or the fatherless, the foreigner or the poor. Do not plot evil against each other” ’ ” (Zech. 7:9, 10, NIV).

In essence, at the very center of justice is the simple, yet profound, principle of love. Our love for God is measured by our love for people. This is why Jesus commands us to “love one another” (John 13:34), which results in our dealing justly with everyone. This, according to Jesus, is what demonstrates to the world that we are Christians: our love for others (John 13:35).

---

_Tiphaine Molina Rosario, Panama City, Florida, USA_