---
title:  A Model of Love and Forgiveness
date:  07/07/2019
---

**Evidence**: Lev. 19:18

The book of Leviticus outlines the priestly duties and sacrificial system of the sanctuary. God established the system to model His love to us in dealing with our sins (Rom. 5:8; Heb. 9:22). The book of Leviticus also outlines the conduct that God expected of His people in relationship with one another. He desired them to be a holy people to Himself and a channel of blessing to one another and the surrounding nations.

We must remember that God had just delivered the children of Israel from Egypt, where they had been slaves for roughly four hundred years. During that time, they had been exposed to and learned many of the customs of Egypt. Furthermore, God was leading them back to Canaan, where there were customs and practices that were an abomination to the Lord. He wanted to teach His people a heavenly culture and lifestyle that was rooted in love, not in selfish practices based on sensual desires.

Through Moses, God gave specific instructions for how the priests were to conduct the ritual services that pointed to Christ shedding His blood as the ultimate sacrifice to forgive the people of their sins (John 1:29). God wanted to demonstrate that He is a loving God and made a way to cover our sins so that He could be in communion with us. By design, when a person would kill the animal sacrifice, it would leave a lasting impression on the person’s mind and cause that person to abhor sin and turn away from it.1

God also wanted to demonstrate that if He can forgive us, we should be kind to one another and forgive each other (Eph. 4:32). Vengeance and holding a grudge toward someone who may have wronged us is something that He did not want in the character of His people (Exod. 2:13; Lev. 19:18). His people were to be a loving people; a people with a moral character far different from that of the nations around them (1 Pet. 4:8, 9).

**React**

`1. Have you accepted the reality that God has forgiven you through the sacrifice of His Son, Jesus Christ?`

`2. What is keeping you from extending forgiveness to others?`

---

<sup>1. Francis D. Nichol, ed., The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 2nd ed., vol. 1 (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald®, 1978), pp. 693–696.</sup>

_Benjamin Garcia, Saginaw, Michigan, USA_