---
title:  "Second Tithe: Blueprint for Welfare"
date:  09/07/2019
---

**Testimony**: Deut. 15:11

“A second tithe of all the increase was required. . . .

“Every third year, . . . this second tithe was to be used at home, in entertaining the Levite and the poor, as Moses said, ‘That they may eat within thy gates, and be filled.’ Deuteronomy 26:12. This tithe would provide a fund for the uses of charity and hospitality. . . .

“The law of God gave the poor a right to a certain portion of the produce of the soil. When hungry, a man was at liberty to go to his neighbor’s field or orchard or vineyard, and eat of the grain or fruit to satisfy his hunger. . . .

“All the gleanings of harvest field, orchard, and vineyard, belonged to the poor. . . .

“Every seventh year special provision was made for the poor. . . . Of that which the land produced spontaneously they might eat while fresh, but they were not to lay up any portion of it in their storehouses. The yield of this year was to be free for the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, and even for the creatures of the field.”1

“Such were the provisions made by our merciful Creator, to lessen suffering, to bring some ray of hope, to flash some gleam of sunshine, into the life of the destitute and distressed.

“The Lord would place a check upon the inordinate love of property and power. Great evils would result from the continued accumulation of wealth by one class, and the poverty and degradation of another. Without some restraint the power of the wealthy would become a monopoly, and the poor, though in every respect fully as worthy in God’s sight, would be regarded and treated as inferior to their more prosperous brethren.”2

**React**

`1. Although the Lord, through Moses, gave Israel many laws to “place a check upon the inordinate love of property and power,” was the nation’s system immune to corruption or hoarding of goods?`

`2. How are these laws, made to help the unfortunate, designed so wisely to encourage diligence in the beneficiaries?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 530, 531.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 534.</sup>

_Angie Decev, Gatineau, Québec, Canada_