---
title:  "Selfless in a Selfish World: Is It Possible?"
date:  10/07/2019
---

**How-to**: Phil. 2:3, 4

We live in a pretty selfish world where, each day, we are bombarded with advertisements to buy more things that can please us, watch more entertainment, and eat more food to satisfy our appetites. How can we, as Bible-believing Christ followers, live selflessly in a world immersed in selfishness? How can we not slip into the trap of living for our own pleasure? Isn’t the influence of those surrounding us too great and overwhelming?

Yes, it may seem impossible, but since God has called us to put aside self, it is possible through Him and Him alone! Here are some tips drawn from the Bible to help with that goal.

Spend time with God. Do it. Every day, learn from the supreme Model of selflessness. Make sure the influence of Jesus on you is stronger than the world’s! If we come to God, He promises to teach, instruct, and counsel us (Ps. 32:8).

Give (Luke 6:38; Acts 20:35). Learn the lesson of giving. It is important to develop the joy of giving rather than receiving. It is important to give from the heart, “not reluctantly or under compulsion,” as the Bible teaches us (2 Cor. 9:7, NIV)

Serve (Matt. 20:26, 27; 1 Cor. 10:24; Phil. 2:3, 4). Besides giving, we must learn to serve. Many people give money to different charities, mission projects, and other causes but may never be involved in any of them through personal service. Serving others is as important as giving money, if not more important. Serving others should be our priority. In serving others we learn to think less of ourselves. In the life of Jesus, we can see daily selfless service for others. Be intentional, every day, to help and serve other people in any capacity you can. Pray to God for His leading for you to be a blessing to someone every day.

**React**

`1. How are giving and serving different? Which one do you think is harder for most people to do? Which one do you find harder?`

`2. How does Jesus’ selflessness sharply contrast with the selfishness of those around you?`

`3. Does there seem to be an unacceptable level of selfishness in our modern culture? How does it compare to what Jesus calls us to do?`

---

_Grigore Decev, Gatineau, Québec, Canada_