---
title:  Heavenly Versus Earthly Things
date:  11/07/2019
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 6:33

Many people who migrate to the United States have one thing in mind: achieve the American dream. People want to work hard to obtain an education and a well-paying job, start a family, and buy a house, a car, and other commodities that give a sense of accomplishment.

There is nothing wrong with wanting to improve your lifestyle or to provide commodities for your family to enjoy. However, many times “the dream” becomes the focus of our attention, which in turn becomes our reason to live. Many times it goes so far that it takes the place that God should have in our lives. Thus, we often make decisions based on getting us closer to the dream instead of getting us closer to God.

Losing sight of heaven changes who we are and what we live for. It makes us focus on ourselves. We become so self-centered that others become unimportant; our wants supersede others’ needs. This is exactly what the devil wants. He wants to divert our attention from what God has called us to do—to serve and be a blessing to others. Instead of growing to be more like Christ, we do the opposite.

Matthew 19:16–22 tells of a young ruler who had been blessed with great possessions. Not only was he rich, he also was a decent person. However, his wealth was the god before the real God. Jesus told this young ruler to stop focusing on his “American dream” and start using his blessings to be a blessing to others by meeting their needs. Sadly, the young ruler did not love his neighbor as himself.

Reflecting on the life of Jesus, we see evidence that He focused on helping others and being a blessing to them. Jesus always took care of others’ needs, both physical and, more important, spiritual. Jesus was more interested in meeting people’s needs than in obtaining a title, earning good money, or having possessions and commodities. He focused on His mission and did not deviate from it.

God has blessed us in many ways; let’s be a blessing to others. Focus on people instead of temporal possessions (Matt. 6:33, NKJV). May our investments be in heaven instead of in earthly things.

**React**

`1. Is your “American dream” getting in the way of blessing others?`

`2. What are some ways we can invest in heaven?`

`3. How can we remind ourselves to be a blessing with our blessings?`

---

_David Moncada, Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA_