---
title:  The Mind-set to Be a Blessing
date:  12/07/2019
---

**Exploration**: Matt. 24:12; 1 Cor. 13:1–3

**Conclude**

God’s people are vessels through which He can pour out His blessings on the earth. Our selfish nature makes it easy for us to forget and be content to say a prayer of thankfulness and go about our own lives. To fulfill our original purpose, we must change not only our actions but also our way of thinking. In Matthew, we are warned that the abundance of evil would make us indifferent and that the “love of many” would “grow cold” (Matt. 24:12, NKJV). Many think it’s “Christian” to avoid conflict, but we should be standing up for the weak. We are followers of Christ first, upholding the Bible, and representing Him wherever we go through whatever we do, remembering that without love, whether we are standing against the unjust or being a blessing to those in need, it is nothing (1 Cor. 13:1–3).

**Consider**

- Baking bread or some cookies and taking them to a neighbor, using the opportunity to get to know the neighbor.
- Gathering a group of friends and getting involved with your local food pantry, homeless shelter, or community center.
- Putting together care packages for refugees.
- Rewriting the parable of the good Samaritan (Luke 10:25–37) using modern-day circumstances.
- Thinking about, discussing, and comparing circumstances in which the biblical, Christian thing to do is to remain silent and others in which it is to take action.
- Writing a journal entry or illustrating the different ways in which God could use you to be a blessing to those you come in contact with.
- Researching different agencies and organizations that you can get involved with to help those in need.


**Connect**

Exodus 13:14; 21–23.

Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 3, chap. 46, “Duty to the Unfortunate”; Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, chap. 6, “Not Judging, but Doing.”

---

_Isaí Almeida McGrath, Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA_