---
title:  A New God
date:  23/08/2025
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 19, 20

**A New God**

The Egyptians worshiped a host of gods. They believed that some had nationwide influence while others had only a limited jurisdiction or specialized powers. Everyone in ancient times understood that the gods were not to be treated contemptuously. They had access to the supernatural. Their requirements had to be met. The Egyptian religion demanded a complex round of ceremonies to appease the gods and thereby convince them to maintain order. After generations of exposure to these Egyptian practices and beliefs, the Israelites needed to reset their understanding of deity.

The God of the Hebrews had just delivered the Israelites from their long slavery to the Egyptians. He had shown Himself to be superior in every way to the Egyptian pantheon, and He had shown Himself to be different from any pagan god. The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob demanded the people’s undivided allegiance. His people would not be allowed to act like the majority of people who worshiped a pantheon of gods. This God was jealous and permitted worship of Himself alone. While many ancient cultures did subscribe to the concept of a chief god who was often responsible for the world’s existence, this god was never the only one that existed. There were always other gods. However, the God of Abraham didn’t just claim to be the first among many; He claimed to be the only God.

This God also seemed to be just as interested in how His people treated other humans as He was in how they worshiped Him. He planned to give the Hebrews specific commands to govern and guide their morals and laws, but before they could receive these Ten Commandments, they needed to prepare themselves (Exod. 19:10). God had brought the Hebrews to Horeb, the mountain of God, so He could be with them and personally deliver His commands. That’s worth repeating—Moses wouldn’t write the commandments and present them to the people; God Himself would speak them and then write them on two tablets of stone. To do that, He needed to be physically present. So, as the mountain began to shake and thunder started to roll, God descended on the mountain in a fire (vv. 16, 18).

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 20:1–17 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map Exodus 19, 20.

` `