---
title:  A Jealous God
date:  24/08/2025
---

#### inGest

Before God presented the terms of the covenant He and the Israelites were entering, He revealed His presence to the people in a frightening manner. Lightning flashed. Thunder rumbled across the mountains. The people were terrified. Afterward, Moses told the people they shouldn’t be afraid. They should know that God was only testing them by His display of power (Exod. 20:20). In the end, they were so scared that they told Moses to talk with God on their behalf.

Before God laid out the stipulations of the covenant He offered the Hebrew people, He reminded them of what He had done for them: “You have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagles’ wings and brought you to Myself” (19:4). God wanted the Israelites to understand that His greatest desire was for a close relationship with His people. In the same way an eagle tenderly cares for her young, so God takes care of His children.

This background set the stage for God’s pronouncement of the covenant, which began with God declaring, “I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage” (20:2). Before God presented any kind of requirements for the people to follow, He declared Himself to be their Deliverer who cared for them. God’s law springs from His desire to save. People often view the law as a long list of things they must do or must not do for God to love them. The truth is the exact opposite; God acts on our behalf before He works to change us.

Out of this context of acting to save, God moved to make exclusive claims over His people: “You shall have no other gods before Me” (v. 3). The original language here is somewhat ambiguous, as the phrase “before Me” seems to allow for other supernatural powers. However, it can also be translated “against Me,” which would suggest that ultimately, there are no other gods. Either way, this demand of exclusivity from the Israelite nation is unique among the ancient gods.

In a clear move to further limit their trust in any other powers, the second commandment states, “You shall not make for yourself a carved image” (v. 4). This was a grand stroke against the heathen gods, who were almost always depicted with physical representations. The God of heaven is “jealous” (v. 5) of His people’s love and worship, not accepting divided hearts of any kind.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 19, 20. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why did God describe Himself as jealous? What did He mean?`

`Do you want a jealous spouse? Why or why not?`