---
title:  “Oh, Be Careful What You Do!”
date:  25/08/2025
---

#### inTerpret

The next two commands present more instructions about how humans connect to God in their daily lives. The prohibition against taking God’s name “in vain” means that one must not use God’s name in a worthless or untrue manner (Exod. 20:7). This applies to taking vain oaths—making promises you don’t keep—but it’s also a warning against other forms of speaking God’s name in a trifling way. The Sabbath command is a unique idea among the nations of the world. For one day each week, people are to cease working in memory and awe of the creative power of God. This commandment also serves as a bridge between the laws relating to God and the laws governing human relationships. The Sabbath protects our relationship with God and guards against abusive relationships that attempt to rob people of needed rest. The importance of this commandment is further highlighted by the change from the typical phrase, “You shall not,” to the word, “Remember” (20:8–11).

The fifth commandment (20:12) also begins differently, with a command to “Honor” rather than the prohibitive “You shall not.” The second stone tablet presented the commandments that regulate how people interact with other humans. In arranging them this way, God highlighted the truth that how we love our neighbor is how we love our God (see also 1 John 4:20, 21). The most foundational of all human relationships is the one with our parents. God knows that the breakdown of society begins in the home. He emphasized the significance of this commandment both by placing it first among the commandments that deal with how we relate to others and by having it be the only commandment with a contingent promise of prosperity.

The last five commandments flow quickly, further defining good human relationships:

“You shall not murder.\
“You shall not commit adultery.\
“You shall not steal.\
“You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.\
“You shall not covet.” (Exod. 20:13–17)

In this listing, we might think there’s some level of descending significance. Taking someone’s life seems to impact others more than individual covetousness does. However, it’s important to understand that there is no decrease in importance. Greed is at the heart of all sin (1 Tim. 6:10). While the tenth commandment addresses sin that takes place strictly in the mind, its location at the conclusion and summary of all ten highlights its importance as the true starting point of all broken relationships.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Do you find some commandments easier to keep than others? Why do you think that is?`

`What can you do to guard against breaking the commandments you find more difficult?`