---
title:  What Happens When We Fail?
date:  27/08/2025
---

#### inVite

Because Jesus taught that belief is the condition of salvation, many people don’t associate Him with the law. One of the most well-known verses in the Bible quotes Jesus’ own words: “For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life” (John 3:16). Jesus was clear that faith in God is the only basis for receiving the gift of eternal life, but human conduct is also very important to Jesus. He talked about the law often. To avoid any misunderstanding, Jesus stressed that He had not come to get rid of the law, and He warned against any religious leader who teaches people to break the law (Matt. 5:17–19).

In fact, when we study His teachings, it’s easy to see that instead of minimizing the commands of the law, Jesus magnified them. For example, Jesus preached, “You have heard that it was said to those of old, ‘You shall not murder, and whoever murders will be in danger of the judgment.’ But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment” (Matt. 5:21, 22). Jesus was not detracting from the law but explaining and affirming the deeper meaning of the law.

Jesus explained that a loving relationship with Him happens inside the keeping of His commandments. Jesus told His disciples, “This is My commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you.… You are My friends if you do whatever I command you” (John 15:12, 14). The ancient Egyptians believed that when they died, they must prove their innocence and vindicate themselves before Osiris, the god of the underworld, to receive eternal life. Their hearts would be weighed on a scale against a feather. If they had kept the laws and honored their gods faithfully enough, their hearts would not be heavier than the feather and they would pass into immortality. By contrast, Jesus already knows we’ve broken His commandments and cannot prove our innocence. So, accompanying Jesus’ high ideal for the law is an equally high value on forgiveness. At the cross, Jesus offered His forgiveness to the whole world. It was not only for the soldiers that He prayed, “Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do” (Luke 23:34). All of us can find forgiveness through Christ. “And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous” (1 John 2:1). The law is not intended to fill us with shame over our failure to reach its ideals—far from it! The law is there to lead us to Jesus as we realize our failures and reach out to Him for forgiveness.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 19, 20 again and look for Jesus.`

`Why is the law needed if our keeping of the law is not the basis of our salvation?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`