---
title:  We All Worship Something 
date:  08/11/2020
---

When God made us, He put in us a wish to worship Him. This wish or need became spoiled by sin. In the beginning, God made us to worship only Him. He alone is worthy of our worship. He is our Lord and the One who made us. But since the Fall, everything changed in a big way.

Yes, we all worship something or someone. This helps explain why humans practice worship all during history and today too. In Egypt during Bible times, some people worshiped Pharaoh, the king. At other times and in other lands, people worshiped statues of fish, gods with many heads, and other things. Some people worshiped the sun, moon, and stars.

Today, most people are too smart to bow down before a statue of a frog. (But many will bow down to a statue of Mary the mother of Jesus.) If people don’t bow down before a statue does that mean they don’t worship anything? Not at all. All people worship something: money, power, sex, self, rock-music stars, famous actors, or government leaders. We worship what we love most. Or whatever we live for or give most of our attention to. Writer David Foster Wallace warns that if you worship the wrong thing, “it will ‘eat’ you alive. That is, it will kill you.

`What does the story in Daniel 3 teach us about why it is important to worship the right thing in the right way?`

As we can see, the three Jewish boys follow the second commandment (Exodus 20:4–6) with all their hearts. That is exactly what God wanted them to do. The second commandment is part of the Ten Commandments that tell us not to kill or steal. So, worship is very important in God’s eyes. Worship becomes an important part of the test for God’s people in the end times before Jesus comes back. That is why Christian education must teach us what the Bible says about worship. We must know what worship is. How do we worship? Why is worship important? And who should we worship?

`Read Revelation 14:6–12. What do these verses teach us about how important the question about worship will be in the end times right before Jesus comes back?`