---
title:  And Tell Them To Their Children 
date:  09/11/2020
---

The Psalms in the Old Testament soon came to be an important part in the religious life of the Israelites during Bible times. The Israelites sang the psalms. They often sang the psalms with music during public worship. Israel was a big community of people. And as a community, they worshiped together.

The psalms are poems or the words to songs. The Hebrew word for the Psalms is “Tehillîm,” which means “praise songs.” When we sing praises to God, we worship God.

`Read Psalm 78:1–17. What is the basic message in this psalm? What does this message teach us about education and worship?`

Asaph wrote Psalm 78. In verse 2, Asaph says how we will share the “things that were hidden” (NIrV). The word “hidden” in this verse means something that is fading. History can “fade” when we move far away in time from what happened in the past. In other Bible versions, “hidden” is written as “secret” (NLV) or “sweet old truths” (Message). What these different versions show us is that education in Israel during Bible times included teaching children the stories from the past about God’s love for His people.

`Look at Psalm 78:6–17. As these verses show, what lessons did the Jews teach their children? What was the reason for education in Israel during Bible times?`

`These verses show us that parents taught their children to trust in God and keep His commandments. How does Revelation 14:12 show that same idea for us as parents and teachers today?`