---
title:  In Spirit And In Truth 
date:  10/11/2020
---

One of the most wonderful stories in the New Testament is the story about Jesus and the woman at the well. It shows how Jesus heals a broken spirit.

`Read John 4:7–26. What does Jesus say about worship to the woman at the well?`

Do you see how the woman tries to change the topic by talking about worship? Jesus lets her and gives us some very deep spiritual truths about worship and what it includes. Maybe the most important thing Jesus says is in John 4:24: “ ‘God is spirit. So the people who worship him must worship in spirit and truth’ ” (ERV).

We must worship the Lord “in spirit.” What does that mean? It means that our worship must come from our love for God. It also must come from our personal experience of knowing Him. “Religion must come from God. That is the only religion that will lead us to God. We must be born again by the power of the Holy Spirit. Then we can serve Him in the right way. Our being born again will make our hearts clean. It will make our minds new. Then we will know and love God more. Being born again will help us to obey all God’s laws. This obedience is true worship. It comes from the Holy Spirit’s work in our lives.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 189, adapted.

At the same time, we must worship God “in truth.” We must have a correct knowledge about God. We must know who He is and what He wants us to do. This is where Bible truth and teaching comes in. (It’s wonderful to know that we worship a God who does not burn people in hell forever.)

So, we see here two parts in worship: (1) the experience and (2) truth. Worship includes the experience that comes from knowing and obeying God. Worship also includes Bible truth about God. Worship without truth can lead to a religion built only on strong feelings. Truth without an experience in the Holy Spirit can lead to a religion with no life in it. So, we need both experience and truth.

`What is the best way to teach someone to worship “in spirit and truth”? When may someone need more of one than the other?`