---
title:  Beauty That Is Holy 
date:  11/11/2020
---

`Read 1 Chronicles 16:1–36. Try to make a picture in your mind about what is happening in these verses. Do you feel what is happening is a time of fear or joy? In what way is this time a mix of both fear and joy? What can we learn from these verses about worship? What do these verses teach us about how we should teach and experience worship?`

The place of worship is the meeting tent where God lived with His people in the desert. God used this place of worship to teach His people about His plan to save them. So, this shows us that Jesus and His saving plan are an important part of worship. God has given us many reasons to praise Him. He has done so many things for us that should cause us to love and worship Him. But all our worship means nothing unless we have hope. This hope comes from Jesus’ death for us on the cross.

These verses in 1 Chronicles also teach us that God wanted everyone on earth to learn about Him from Israel.

`Look at 1 Chronicles 16:29: “Give to the LORD the glory due His name; bring an offering, and come before Him. Oh, worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness!” (NKJV). The “beauty of holiness”? What does that mean?`

Sin is very ugly. It causes a lot of harm, pain, and suffering. Also, in Bible times, the people around Israel did many evil things when they worshiped their gods. Many of them killed their own children. Then they offered the dead bodies as gifts to their gods. These works show us a picture of who those people were.

But God wanted His people to be different. He wanted Israel to be a holy people. God wanted the people of Israel to have holy hearts and minds. God’s plan for worship made it have beauty and meaning. Again and again, the Old Testament messengers scolded people whose hearts were not right with God. These people did evil while they worshiped the Lord. Sadly, their hearts were far away from God.