---
title:  Teaching The People To Worship False Gods 
date:  12/11/2020
---

During Bible times, God’s people live near very religious people. Those people worship their gods by killing their own children and then offering them to the gods as gifts. It takes a lot of faith in your god to kill your own child to it as a gift. You can say that these people really serve their gods, right?

This helps us see why the worship of the true God is so important. It is part of God’s plan to protect His people from the false worship around them. God warned His people not to worship false gods. But His people worshiped them anyway. They also did the very things God warned them not to do.

What about us today? Why is worshiping the true God so important? Why is it also important to tell each other about all the good things God does for us? How can doing these things protect us against the “modern” worship of false gods.

`Read Mark 7:1–13. What important rule do we see in verses 7–9 that can help protect us from the danger of all the false teachings around us?`

Many of the popular ideas taught in schools today come from believing that there is no God. That means that students will be taught things that go against the Bible. We can worship false ideas. We can worship the minds of the thinkers, scientists, and mathematicians who invent these ideas. These ideas often do not agree with Bible truth. The problem is that many people believe in these popular ideas. They are taught in most schools. So, Christian teachers try to mix and blend these ideas into Christian education. There is only one way to do that with any success. You have to destroy Bible truth first and twist it. Then you can make the Bible “agree” with today’s popular ideas.

`What are some of today’s popular beliefs and ideas that go against Bible truth? How can we as a church protect ourselves from teaching these ideas in our own schools?`