---
title:  Further Thought
date:  13/11/2020
---

“The human heart is full of lies more than anything else. It is very evil. People of faith do not want to look into their hearts to see if they are loyal to God. Many of them are trusting in a false hope. Some trust in an old experience they had years ago. But we are now living in a time when everyone must search his heart. During this time, we all must have a daily experience in God. But these people with only an experience in the past have no new experience about God to tell other people. They think that only believing in the truth is enough to save them. But God hates the sins in our hearts. We must win the war against those sins. When that happens, Jesus will come into your heart. You will then get strength from Jesus. You will grow stronger in Him. Then you can say, Blessed be God! He gave us Jesus, who helps us win the war against sin. Are you fake or lukewarm in your faith? If so, then it will make the Lord happy if you did not name yourself a Christian. Lukewarm believers get in the way of people who want to follow Jesus. Lukewarm believers cause people who don’t know God to turn away from Him. Lukewarm believers make evil angels so happy. It gives them an excuse to hurt the angels of God. The evil angels show God’s angels all the bad things that the lukewarm believers are doing in Jesus’ name. These false believers are a curse to God’s cause at home or away from home. These lukewarm believers say all the right words about God. But their hearts are far away from Him.”—Ellen G. White, Spiritual Gifts, volume 2, page 227, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`From Mark 7:1–13, we learned that the cause of false worship is a heart problem. God does not listen to our worship if this worship does not come from our hearts. Why is the Good News about Jesus and the story of His death the most powerful way to open our hearts to God and love Him?`

`We must worship God with our whole hearts. We must also obey His truth. Can we do one and not the other? Or does true worship ask us to do both? If so, why?`

`Yes, our hearts need to be holy so that we can worship God. But what does it mean to have a holy heart? Do you have to wait until you are connected to God 100% and your life is perfect before you can worship Him? How can true worship help get your heart in the right place with God?`