---
title:  Season of Parenting
date:  18/05/2019
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Gen. 18:11, Jer. 31:25, Matt. 11:28, Psalm 127, Prov. 22:6, 1 Sam. 3:10–14, Phil. 3:13.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb is a reward” (Psalm 127:3, NKJV).

Births are such a common, normal occurrence that often we don’t always fully appreciate the wonder that they are. Imagine what Eve must have felt holding baby Cain in her arms. The changes she experienced in her growing body during those months, the excruciating pain of childbirth, and then seeing this small child, so much like them, yet so defenseless. What an experience it must have been for Sarah, in her 90s and way past childbearing age, to contemplate upon the face of her own son, Isaac; she must have laughed every time she pronounced his name. After praying for a son for who knows how long, Hannah held Samuel and said, “ ‘For this child I prayed, and the Lord has granted me my petition which I asked of Him’ ” (1 Sam. 1:27, NKJV). The wonder in Mary’s heart, still a young girl, cuddling her son, God’s Son, with a combination of amazement and fear.

At the same time, not everyone has the privilege, and responsibility, that comes with parenting. This week we will spend time exploring the season of parenting with its challenges, fears, satisfaction, and joy.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, May 25._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Parents, for Christ’s sake do not blunder in your most important work, that of molding the characters of your children for time and for eternity. . . . You determine for them what they will be and what they will do for Christ, for men, and for their own souls. 

Deal honestly and faithfully with your children. Work bravely and patiently. Fear no crosses, spare no time or labor, burden or suffering. The future of your children will testify the character of your work. Fidelity to Christ on your part can be better expressed in the symmetrical character of your children than in any other way. They are Christ’s property, bought with His own blood. If their influence is wholly on the side of Christ they are His colaborers, helping others to find the path of life. If you neglect your God-given work, your unwise course of discipline places them among the class who scatter from Christ and strengthen the kingdom of darkness.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 5, pp. 39, 40.

The education and training of their children to be Christians is the highest service that parents can render to God. It is a work that demands patient labor, a lifelong diligent and persevering effort. By a neglect of this trust we prove ourselves unfaithful stewards. No excuse for such neglect will be accepted by God. 

But those who have been guilty of neglect are not to despair. The woman whose coin was lost searched until she found it. So in love, faith, and prayer let parents work for their households, until with joy they can come to God saying, “Behold, I and the children whom the Lord hath given me.” Isaiah 8:18.—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, pp. 195, 196.

In His wisdom the Lord has decreed that the family shall be the greatest of all educational agencies. It is in the home that the education of the child is to begin. Here is his first school. Here, with his parents as instructors, he is to learn the lessons that are to guide him throughout life—lessons of respect, obedience, reverence, self-control. The educational influences of the home are a decided power for good or for evil. They are in many respects silent and gradual, but if exerted on the right side, they become a far-reaching power for truth and righteousness. . . . How important, then, is the school in the home!—_Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students,_ p. 107.

[Christ] would have His servants bear testimony to the fact that through His grace men may possess Christlikeness of character, and may rejoice in the assurance of His great love. He would have us bear testimony to the fact that He cannot be satisfied until the human race are reclaimed and reinstated in their holy privileges as His sons and daughters. 

In Christ is the tenderness of the shepherd, the affection of the parent, and the matchless grace of the compassionate Saviour. . . . “He shall feed His flock like a shepherd: He shall gather the lambs with His arm, and carry them in His bosom.” Isaiah 40:11.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 826. 