---
title:  Further Thought
date:  19/06/2026
---

“Whatever the profession, no man has pure love to God unless he has unselfish love for his brother. But we can never come into possession of this spirit by trying to love others. What is needed is the love of Christ in the heart. When self is merged in Christ, love springs forth spontaneously.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 384.

“Those who are most actively employed in doing with interested fidelity their work to win souls to Jesus Christ, are the best developed in spirituality and devotion.”—Ellen G. White, Evangelism, p. 356.

“Strength to resist evil is best gained by aggressive service.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 105.

“In order to enter into His joy—the joy of seeing souls redeemed by His sacrifice—we must participate in His labors for their ­redemption.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 142.

“Those who reject the privilege of fellowship with Christ in service, reject the only training that imparts a fitness for participation with Him in His glory.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 264.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why is love so foundational and essential for any kind of ef­fective witnessing?`

`When have you found this to be true: that soul winning is linked to a personal and vibrant walk with God?`

`Is there a baseline or basic understanding that is needed to share God with others? If so, what might this be?`

`When it comes to giving a Bible study to a nonbeliever, where would you begin? What is your initial focus: proving certain doctrines or inviting someone to know Jesus?`

`Sing or listen to the words from the hymn “Redeemed!” (The Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal, no. 338) and reflect on the ways you are proclaiming it.`

**Summary**: When God’s love and His living, powerful Word fill our daily lives, we will be compelled to love and share Him with those around us. We should be prayerful, thoughtful, and intentional about witnessing, believing that His Word, which goes forth from His mouth, shall not return to Him void, but it shall accomplish what He pleases, and it shall prosper in the things for which He sent it (see Isa. 55:11).