---
title:  Further Thought
date:  22/05/2026
---

We are justified (pardoned and set right with God) by faith (Rom. 5:1). We are then also sanctified (given power to be like Jesus) by faith (Acts 26:18). When we invite Jesus into our lives, we also become God’s children by faith (John 1:12). We live by faith in the Son of God (Gal. 2:20).

“Nothing is apparently more helpless, yet really more invincible, than the soul that feels its nothingness and relies wholly on the merits of the Saviour. By prayer, by the study of His word, by faith in His abiding presence, the weakness of human beings may live in contact with the living Christ, and He will hold them by a hand that will never let go.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, p. 182.

“Their faith must be strengthened by fervent prayer and fasting, and humiliation of heart. They must be emptied of self, and be filled with the Spirit and power of God. Earnest, persevering supplication to God in faith—faith that leads to entire dependence upon God, and unreserved consecration to His work—can alone avail to bring men to the Holy Spirit’s aid in the battle against principalities and powers, the rulers of the darkness of this world, and wicked spirits in high places.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 431.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What five main points are highlighted in the quote im­mediately above when it comes to collaborating with the Holy Spirit against the enemy?`

`What role does faith play in the battle against evil?`

`How do you see this battle right now in your own life?`

`Read Hebrews 10:23. Why is it important to hold fast to our confession of faith?`

`How often do you consider this truth that when you feel helpless, it’s an opportunity for you to rely more wholly upon Jesus?`

**Summary**: God gives each person a measure of faith as a foundation for a relationship with Him. As the Author and Finisher of our faith, Jesus modeled the power of faith for us all. When our faith is small, when we come with weeping and supplication and have a surrendered heart, God will work miracles in our lives (see Jer. 31:2–4, 9, 11, 12). He will lead us in His straight ways so that we do not stumble any longer, and we will have peace. Jesus is the perfect example in all things, and having His faith will identify us as His people in the end times.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Our Father Cares, “We Have the Blessed Assurance,” October 27, p. 312.\
The Faith I Live By, “Faith Not Feeling,” April 28, p. 124.\
