---
title:  The Gospel and the Church
date:   16/09/2017
---

#### Read for This Week’s Study
Gal. 6:1–10, Matt. 18:15–17, 1 Cor. 10:12, Rom. 15:1, John 13:34, Luke 22:3.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith” (Galatians 6:10, ESV).

Some farmers decided to save the biggest vegetables for themselves and to plant the smaller ones as seed. After a few disappointing harvests, they discovered that nature had reduced their crops to the size of marbles. Through this disaster, those farmers learned an important law of life.

“They could not have the best things of life for themselves and use the leftovers for seed. The law of life decreed that the harvest would reflect the planting.

“In another sense, planting small [vegetables] is still common practice. We take the big things of life for ourselves and plant the leftovers. We expect that by some crazy twist of spiritual laws, our selfishness will be rewarded with unselfishness.”—International Student Fellowship Newsletter, March 2007.

Paul applies this principle in Galatians 6:1–10. Instead of its members “bit[ing] and devour[ing] one another” (Gal. 5:15), the church should be a place where the Spirit leads us to put others before ourselves. Understanding that we are saved by grace should make us humble and more patient and compassionate in how we treat others.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, September 23._
