---
title:  Restoring the Fallen
date:   17/09/2017
---

While Paul has lofty expectations for the nature of the Christian life (Gal. 5:16), his counsel to the believers in Galatians 6:1 also is refreshingly realistic. Humans are not perfect, and even the most dedicated Christians are not immune from making mistakes. In Greek, Paul’s words in Galatians 5:16 indicate that he is envisioning a situation in which such mistakes might occur. Paul gives the Galatians practical advice on how to deal with such situations when they arise.

`How should Christians respond when a fellow believer falls into some sinful behavior? Gal. 6:1, Matt. 18:15–17.`

To benefit from Paul’s advice in Galatians 6:1, we need to understand the precise type of situation that Paul has in mind. The two words used in the first half of the sentence offer clarification. The first word can be translated as caught (ESV) or overtaken (KJV). It literally means “to be detected, overtaken, or surprised.” The context and different nuances associated with this word suggest that Paul has two aspects in mind. This is because it refers not only to a believer who “catches” another believer in the act of some wrongdoing but also to the process by which a person finds himself “overtaken” by a behavior (see Prov. 5:22) that, under the best of circumstances, he would have chosen to avoid.

The likelihood that the wrongdoing Paul is discussing is not deliberate is evident from the terminology he uses. The word translated as “fault” (KJV) or “sin” (NIV), which comes from the Greek word paraptoma, does not refer to a deliberate sin but to a mistake, a stumble, or a false step. The latter makes particular sense in light of Paul’s previous comments about “walking” in the Spirit. Although this in no way excuses the person’s mistake, it makes clear that Paul is not dealing with a case of defiant sin (1 Cor. 5:1–5).

The proper response in such circumstances should not be punishment, condemnation, or disfellowship but restoration. The Greek word translated as “restore” is katartizo, and it means “to mend” or “to put in order.” In the NewTestament it is used to refer to the “mending” of fishnets (Matt. 4:21), and it is used as a medical term in Greek literature to describe the process of setting a broken bone. In the same way that we would not abandon a fellow believer who fell and broke a leg, as members of the body of Christ we should gently care for our brothers and sisters in Christ who may stumble and fall as we walk together on the path to God’s kingdom.

`Instead of practicing Matthew 18:15–17, why do we so often talk badly about the person with whom we’re angry, let our anger simmer against the person, or even plan revenge?`