---
title:  The Law of Christ
date:   20/09/2017
---

_Gal. 6:2–5_

`Paul connects burden bearing with fulfilling the law of Christ. What does he mean by “the law of Christ”? Gal. 5:14, 6:2, John 13:34, Matt. 22:34–40.`

Paul’s use of the phrase “the law of Christ” (ton nomon tou Christou) occurs nowhere else in the Bible, though he uses a similar expression in 1 Corinthians 9:21 (ennomos Christou). The uniqueness of this phrase has resulted in a number of different interpretations. Some mistakenly argue that this is evidence that the law of God given at Sinai has been replaced by a different law, the law of Christ. Others claim the word law simply means a general “principle” (see Rom. 7:21), meaning that in bearing the burdens of others we are following the example of Jesus. While the latter interpretation has some merit, the context and similar terminology with Galatians 5:14 suggest that “fulfil[ling] the law of Christ” is another reference to fulfilling the moral law through love. Paul showed earlier in his letter that the moral law was not annulled with the coming of Christ. Instead, the moral law interpreted by love continues to play an important role in the Christian life. This is the epitome of what Jesus taught during His earthly ministry, as well as practiced throughout His life and even in His death. Thus, in bearing the burdens of others, we are not only following in the footsteps of Jesus but also fulfilling the law.

Another issue that arises in these texts is the apparent contradiction between Galatians 6:2 and 6:5. This problem, however, easily is resolved when one realizes that Paul is using two different words to describe two different situations. As we already have seen, the word for “burden” in verse 2 (baros) refers to a heavy load that has to be carried for a long distance. The word phortion in verse 5, however, refers to a ship’s cargo, a soldier’s backpack, or even a child in the womb. Whereas the former burdens can be laid aside, the latter cannot. A pregnant mother must carry her own child. As this example suggests, there are some burdens that people can help us bear but others that no human can bear for us, such as the burden of a guilty conscience, suffering, and death. For these, we must rely on God’s help alone (Matt. 11:28–30).

`While for some burdens you can get help from other people, some you have to take to the Lord alone. How can you learn to give to the Lord the things that you just can’t bear?`