---
title:  “Right In His Own Eyes”
date:  08/10/2018
---

Stories from the book of Judges show the numerous negative conse-quences of Israel not following the Lord’s will. Soon after Israel entered into Canaan, people began to pattern their spiritual lives on the false religions of the Canaanites surrounding them—exactly what they were told not to do! Unfortunately, that wasn’t the only problem they were facing either.

`Read Judges 17:6 and Judges 21:25. What do these verses teach about more problems that arose among God’s people?`

Talk about a recipe for division and disunity among God’s people. The unity of the nation was to be found in their loyal obedience to the Lord of the covenant, the covenant that they had entered into with God. By doing, however, what was right in their own eyes—especially as they were being influenced by the surrounding nations—they were on the sure road to disaster. We are all fallen beings, and if left to our own devices, if left to follow the inclinations of our hearts, we’ll surely wander from the path that God calls us to walk on.

**What do the following passages tell us about the spiritual and social conditions of Israel during the time of the judges?**

`Judg. 2:11-13`

`Judg. 3:5-7`

“The Lord had through Moses set before His people the result of unfaithfulness. By refusing to keep His covenant, they would cut themselves off from the life of God, and His blessing could not come upon them. At times these warnings were heeded, and rich blessings were bestowed upon the Jewish nation and through them upon surrounding peoples. But more often in their history they forgot God and lost sight of their high privilege as His representatives. They robbed Him of the service He required of them, and they robbed their fellow men of religious guidance and a holy example. They desired to appropriate to themselves the fruits of the vineyard over which they had been made stewards. Their covetousness and greed caused them to be despised even by the heathen. Thus the Gentile world was given occasion to misinterpret the character of God and the laws of His kingdom.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 20, 21.

`How do our own actions as a church impact those around us? What do they see in Seventh-day Adventists that would impress them in a positive manner?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Israelites were “mingled among the heathen, and learned their works.” Psalm 106:35. They intermarried with the Canaanites, and idolatry spread like a plague throughout the land. “They served their idols: which were a snare unto them. Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils: . . . and the land was polluted with blood. . . . Therefore was the wrath of the Lord kindled against His people, insomuch that He abhorred His own inheritance.” Psalm 106:36-40. 

Until the generation that had received instruction from Joshua became extinct, idolatry made little headway; but the parents had prepared the way for the apostasy of their children. The disregard of the Lord’s restrictions on the part of those who came in possession of Canaan sowed seed of evil that continued to bring forth bitter fruit for many generations. The simple habits of the Hebrews had secured them physical health; but association with the heathen led to the indulgence of appetite and passion, which gradually lessened physical strength and enfeebled the mental and moral powers. By their sins the Israelites were separated from God; His strength was removed from them, and they could no longer prevail against their enemies. Thus they were brought into subjection to the very nations that through God they might have subdued.—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, pp. 544, 545. 

There are some who do not readily respond to the invitation to forsake their own way, and come into harmony with God’s way. They prefer to follow a way of their own choosing. Those who wish to do so, have the privilege of continuing to walk in their own unconsecrated way, but the end of that way is sorrow and destruction. 

The Lord has men of His appointment whom He will use in His work so long as they allow themselves to be used in accordance with His good pleasure. He can never use any one who is seeking to humble someone else. Humble yourselves, brethren. When you do this, it is possible for holy angels to communicate with you, and place you on vantage ground. Then your experience, instead of being faulty, will be filled with happiness. Seek to relate yourselves in harmony with God’s leadings, and then you will be susceptible to the movings of His Holy Spirit.—Manuscript 47, 1910.

Never be ashamed of your colors; put them up, unfurl them to the gaze of men and angels. . . . The world has a right to know just what may be expected from every intelligent human being. He who is a living embodiment of firm, decided, righteous principles will be a living power upon his associates; and he will influence others by his Christianity. Many do not discern and appreciate how great is the influence of each one for good or evil. . . . 

Your happiness for this life and for the future, immortal life lies with yourself. . . . How important it is that everyone shall consider where he is leading souls. We are in view of the eternal world, and how diligently we should count the cost of our influence.—_My Life Today_, p. 120.