---
title:  Schism In Corinth
date:  10/10/2018
---

Unfortunately, the issue of disunity among God’s people didn’t end even in New Testament times.For example, the first four chapters of Paul’s First Epistle to the Corinthians are an appeal for unity. While in Ephesus Paul heard that various divisions had erupted in the church at Corinth. Thus, he begins his letter with a lengthy address on church unity and the need to avoid schism. Paul is concerned about this development, and he seeks to provide inspired counsel to remedy this unfortunate situation.

`According to 1 Corinthians 1:10-17, what seems to have been the cause of disunity, of their divisions and quarrels?`

Paul became concerned for his brothers and sisters in Corinth when someone from Chloe’s people told him about the divisions and quarrels among them. His opening words show the depth of his concern: “Now I plead with you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you.” His solution was to remind them that, as Christians, they were to be joined together “in the same mind and in the same judgment” (1 Cor. 1:10, NKJV). Whatever exactly was causing this contention and division, Paul wanted it stopped.

Paul reminds the Corinthians that Christians are called to follow Christ, not a human being—however talented or gifted or called that person may be. While they seemed to have divided themselves along “party” lines, the apostle stated unequivocally that such divisiveness was not according to Christ’s will. He asserted that Christian unity is centered on Christ and His sacrifice on the cross (1 Cor. 1:13).

Christian unity finds its source in the truth as it is found in Jesus Christ and Him crucified, and in no one else, no matter how “worthy” a mentor or preacher or leader that person might be. At the foot of the cross we are all on the same level ground. Our baptism is into Jesus, who alone can cleanse us from sin. However, we must work toward this unity in Christ in practical ways.

What this should say to us is that as Seventh-day Adventists, we cannot take for granted our unity of faith and mission. Divisions and quarrels can undermine the unity of our church today unless the love and lordship of Christ unites us to Him.

`How can we learn to avoid the kind of dangers that Paul was dealing with here? Why must we always be careful about how much loyalty we give to any person other than Christ?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind, and in the same judgment” (1 Corinthians 1:10). Paul would not have appealed to [the Corinthians] to do that which was impossible. Unity is the sure result of Christian perfection.—_The Sanctified Life_, p. 85.

Paul knew that the higher Christian attainments can be reached only through much prayer and constant watchfulness, and this he tried to instill into their minds. But he knew also that in Christ crucified they were offered power sufficient to convert the soul and divinely adapted to enable them to resist all temptations to evil. With faith in God as their armor, and with His word as their weapon of warfare, they would be supplied with an inner power that would enable them to turn aside the attacks of the enemy. 

The Corinthian believers needed a deeper experience in the things of God. They did not know fully what it meant to behold His glory and to be changed from character to character. They had seen but the first rays of the early dawn of that glory. Paul’s desire for them was that they might be filled with all the fullness of God, following on to know Him whose going forth is prepared as the morning, and continuing to learn of Him until they should come into the full noontide of a perfect gospel faith.—_The Acts of the Apostles_, pp. 307, 308.

Is Christ divided? No. Christ abiding in the soul will not quarrel with Christ in another soul. We must learn to bear with the peculiarities of those around us. If our will is under the control of Christ’s will, how can we be at variance with our brethren? If we are at variance, we may know that it is because self needs to be crucified. He whom Christ makes free is free indeed. We are not complete in Christ unless we love one another as Christ has loved us. When we do this, as Christ has given us commandment, we shall give evidence that we are complete in Him.—Letter 141, September 10, 1902.

There will be a sharp conflict between those who are loyal to God and those who cast scorn upon His law. . . . The loyal will not be carried away by the current of evil. They will not throw contempt on that which God has set apart as holy. They will not follow Israel’s example of forgetfulness; they will call to remembrance God’s dealings with His people in all ages, and will walk in the way of His commandments. 

The test comes to everyone. There are only two sides. On which side are you?—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 8, p. 120.