---
title:  Further Thought
date:  12/10/2018
---

Ellen G. White, “The Rending of the Kingdom,” pp. 87-98, in Prophets and Kings; “A Message of Warning and Entreaty,” pp. 298-308, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“The Lord desires His chosen servants to learn how to unite in harmonious effort. It may seem to some that the contrast between their gifts and the gifts of a fellow laborer is too great to allow them to unite in harmonious effort; but when they remember that there are varied minds to be reached, and that some will reject the truth as it is presented by one laborer, only to open their hearts to God’s truth as it is presented in a different manner by another laborer, they will hopefully endeavor to labor together in unity. Their talents, however diverse, may all be under the control of the same Spirit. In every word and act, kindness and love will be revealed; and as each worker fills his appointed place faithfully, the prayer of Christ for the unity of His followers will be answered, and the world will know that these are His disciples.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers, p. 483.

**Discussion Questions**

`The question of doing what is right in one’s “own eyes” is nothing new. Postmodernism, which challenges the idea of any one central or overarching intellectual or moral authority, could potentially pave the way for the kind of moral anarchy that the Bible warns about. How do we as Christians, and as a church as a whole, confront this kind of challenge?`

`Reflect on the story of King Rehoboam and the division of Israel (1 Kings 12). What lessons are there for us today?`

`What can church leaders and members do to help prevent strife and cliques in a local church? How important is it to stop these issues before they grow and fester? How can we as church members be careful not to fall into the trap that some did in Corinth?`

`Study the context of the passage on discord in Proverbs 6:16-19. What do you learn from this to prevent discord in your local church?`

**Summary**: In the Bible we find situations that led to disunity. When God’s people lived in faithful obedience, the dangers of disunity were greatly diminished. Bad decisions from the time of the judges as well as from the reign of Rehoboam opened the door for division. Even in New Testament times, the potential for disunity remained. A proper understanding of God’s Word and the sanctified effort to obey it are the best protection against disunity and schism among us.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Prophets and Kings_, “The Rending of the Kingdom,” pp. 87–98; 

_The Acts of the Apostles_, “A Message of Warning and Entreaty,” pp. 298–308. 