---
title:  The Holy Spirit as God
date:   14/01/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit as God

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON
Acts 5:1–4; 1 Corinthians 2:10, 11; Isaiah 63:10–14; Titus 3:4–6; Romans 8:11; 1 Peter 1:2.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE</p>
> “May the grace shown by the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love that God has given us, and the sharing of life brought about by the Holy Spirit be with you all” (2 Corinthians 13:14, NIrV).

THE BIBLE SHOWS US WHO THE FATHER IS. It also shows us that He is God. Both the truth of who the Father is and the truth that He is God are never in doubt in the Bible. 

The Bible also clearly declares Jesus to be God. And it shows who He is. The New Testament especially declares this truth in the Gospels and the letters.

The Bible also teaches that the Holy Spirit is God. But this truth is not as clearly shown. Instead, the Bible hints at this truth in different verses. We need to compare verse with verse in order to study carefully what God has shown in His Word about the Holy Spirit. When doing so, we should not say something is true that the Bible does not say is true. And we should not ignore what the Bible declares as truth. 

The study of who the Holy Spirit is demands a heart that is both teachable and meek (not proud). We should not make our own ideas about God the standard (rule) of how the Holy Spirit should be understood. Instead, we should accept as truth what the Bible teaches. Some of these teachings may be hard for us to understand fully. But we must accept these truths above our own opinions.

##### DEFINITIONS

1. **grace**—God’s gift of mercy and forgiveness that He freely gives us to take away our sins.
2. **Gospels**—the first four books of the New Testament: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
3. **compare**—to show how two or more things are the same or different.