---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AND GOD
date:   15/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT AND GOD

(Acts 5:1–4)

The Bible does not give a clear outline for who the Holy Spirit is or what He does. Instead, we find interesting hints about Him. These hints show that Bible writers believed the Holy Spirit to be equal with God. There are several Bible verses in which the same work that is connected with God also is connected with the Holy Spirit. 

`Read Acts 5:1–4. What can we conclude about God and the Holy Spirit from Peter’s words to Ananias?`

Suppose the Holy Spirit were not God. Then Peter would have been speaking here in a very careless way. Worse, his words would be fatal and misleading. However, Peter puts God and the Holy Spirit on the same level. In verse 3, Peter asks Ananias why he has lied to the Holy Spirit. Then at the end of verse 4, Peter says, “ ‘You [have not] lied to just anyone. [You have] lied to God’ ” (NIrV). So, Peter clearly shows that the Holy Spirit is equal with God. His point is that Ananias was not just lying to the apostles (teachers and leaders), but to God Himself. Lying to the Holy Spirit is lying to God. The Holy Spirit is God. That point is made here very clearly.

But why is there such a harsh punishment for what Ananias and Sapphira did? We must remember that the believers of the early church in Acts were “agreed [one] in heart and mind” (Acts 4:32, NIrV). This agreement (oneness) was the result of the work of the Holy Spirit on their hearts and minds. Then because the believers agreed in heart and mind, they freely shared what they owned. So, for Ananias and Sapphira to lie about what they shared was to go against the agreement of the believers to share what they had. The lie of Ananias and his wife denied the truth of the Holy Spirit that made it possible to be one in heart and mind in the first place. 

In this way, the lie of Ananias and his wife gave a false picture of the Holy Spirit’s work in the early church community. Such lying toward God is destructive. Instead, God wants us to serve Him with our whole hearts.

`Think how easily Ananias and Sapphira may have excused their sin: After all, have we not sold our own property and given some of it to the church? What does this story tell us about how careful we need to be to not make excuses for our poor actions? Why is it wrong to make the wrong things we do seem right in our eyes?` 