---
title:  'THE HOLY SPIRIT: WHO HE IS AND WHAT HE DOES'
date:   16/01/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT: WHO HE IS AND WHAT HE DOES
 
(1 Corinthians 2:10, 11)

Many Bible verses describe who the Holy Spirit is and what He does. He is shown as doing the same work that God does. The Bible also describes the Holy Spirit as being the same as God in many ways.

`The following verses list special things about the Holy Spirit that are also true about God. What are those things? Compare 1 Corinthians 2:10, 11 with Isaiah 40:13, 14. Read Psalm 139:7 and Luke 1:35. Compare Hebrews 9:14 with 1 Timothy 6:16. Compare Romans 15:19 with Psalm 104:30.`  

Paul argues that only One who is equal to God can know the deep things of God (1 Corinthians 2:10, 11). In other words, no one knows God as well as the Spirit of God. This is because the Spirit of God knows God from the inside. The Holy Spirit knows God in a way that an outsider does not. So, the Holy Spirit is indeed omniscient (all knowing; knowing everything). 

The Spirit can be found wherever God is. There is no place we can run to where the Spirit of God is not. The Holy Spirit is indeed omnipresent (everywhere at once) (compare with Psalm 139:7). 

The Holy Spirit is said to be “eternal” (Hebrews 9:14). In the Bible, how many eternal beings are there? The answer is that only God is eternal (1 Timothy 6:16). Yet, the Spirit is called eternal. So, He must be God. 

The Holy Spirit also is all powerful. In Luke 1:35, the wording “the Holy Spirit” and “the power of the Most High” (NASB) mean the same thing. Here they both refer to a miracle of the highest power, the virgin birth of Jesus. In Romans 15:19, the apostle Paul makes it clear who gave him the power to do his ministry (work done for God). The Holy Spirit gave the apostle the power to do “mighty signs and wonders” (NKJV). Indeed, the Holy Spirit can do divine miracles. 

Jesus also says that “blasphemy against the Spirit” is unforgivable (Matthew 12:31, 32, NKJV; read also Mark 3:28, 29). This truth makes no sense unless the Spirit is God. 

But perhaps the most amazing work of the Holy Spirit is His ability to change human hearts and minds. The Holy Spirit is the One who makes a new spiritual birth possible (John 3:5–8). And He has the power to do what only God can do.

##### DEFINITIONS

4. **blasphemy**—1. great disrespect shown to God or to something holy. 2. the act of claiming to be God or to be like God.