---
title:  HINTS IN THE BIBLE
date:   17/01/2017
---

### HINTS IN THE BIBLE

(Isaiah 63:10–14)

There are many verses that point to the Holy Spirit in the Bible. These verses refer not only to the Holy Spirit but also to God.

`Read Isaiah 63:10–14. Compare these verses with Numbers 14:11 and Deuteronomy 32:12. To whom was the writer referring in these passages? What does this fact tell us about how the Holy Spirit is God?`

Isaiah 63:10 tells us the people “rebelled” (fought) against the Holy Spirit. The people caused the Spirit to grieve over their sins. However, the same story in Numbers 14:11 says, “The Lord said to Moses, ‘How long will these people not respect me?’ ” (NIrV). And in Deuteronomy 32:12, we are told, “The Lord was the only one who led Israel. No other god was with them” (NIrV). Obviously, the Bible writers thought that God and the Holy Spirit were equal to each other. 

`Compare 1 Corinthians 3:16, 17 with 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20. Compare 1 Corinthians 12:11 with 1 Corinthians 12:28 also. How are the Holy Spirit and God referred to in the same way in these verses? What same thing are these verses saying about both God and the Holy Spirit?`

In 1 Corinthians 3:16, 17, Paul uses language that is much the same as the language he uses in 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20. For Paul, to have the Holy Spirit is to have God Himself live within one’s heart. Paul puts the wording “God’s temple” (NIV) on the same level as the temple “of the Holy Spirit” (NIV). By doing so, Paul points out that the Holy Spirit is God.

In 1 Corinthians 12:11, Paul writes that it is the Holy Spirit who gives the spiritual gifts to each believer. A few verses later in 1 Corinthians 12:28, we are told that it is God who gives the gifts. The basic message is clear: the Holy Spirit does the same work that God does. This truth offers powerful proof that the Holy Spirit is equal to God.

`Read again Numbers 14:11. In what ways might the situation described in this verse be applied to us today? Think about the miracles that God has worked in our church. Think about all the reasons He has given us to believe. How can we make sure we are not doing today what God’s people did thousands of years ago?`

##### DEFINITIONS

5. **grieve**—to feel terrible pain and sorrow; to mourn.