---
title:  DIVINE WORK OF THE HOLY SPIRIT
date:   18/01/2017
---

### DIVINE WORK OF THE HOLY SPIRIT

(Titus 3:4–6)

The Holy Spirit does certain works. But these are works that the Bible says only God can do. So, the Holy Spirit is at work in the divine act of Creation. He is just as active in God’s work of making sinners new. 

`Read Titus 3:4–6. How does Paul describe the work of the Holy Spirit in the process of making us new?` 

The Holy Spirit is mentioned side by side with “God our Savior” (Titus 3:4) in the discussion of our new birth. This is because the Holy Spirit makes our hearts new. He awakens our desire to follow Christ. He is the Spirit of life (Romans 8:2). He is the One who sanctifies (makes holy) sinners. He changes our characters. And He helps us to be obedient to Jesus Christ, who saved us. Only a Divine Being can do such wonderful things.

`Compare Isaiah 6:8–10 with Acts 28:25–27. Who do the writers of the Bible in these verses say is doing the speaking?`

There are some verses of the Bible in which the Bible writers say that God is the One who is speaking. But other Bible writers say that the Holy Spirit is speaking in those same verses. We are also told that the Holy Spirit gave the Bible to us (2 Peter 1:21). But in other places, the Bible says that God gave the Bible to us (2 Timothy 3:16). Giving the Scriptures (the Bible) to us, then, is another divine work of the Spirit.

`What does Romans 8:11 teach us about the divine character of the Holy Spirit?` 

The Bible states (says) that the Holy Spirit raised Jesus from the dead. It also says He will also raise us through the Spirit. Only God has the power to raise people from the dead. So, the Holy Spirit is God. 

`What changes can you make that would cause you to be more open to the leading of the Holy Spirit? That is, what practices (habits) might be keeping you from clearly understanding His leading in your life?`

##### DEFINITIONS

6. **characters**—who people are. The thoughts, feelings, and actions make up a person’s character.