---
title:  DOES IT MATTER THAT THE HOLY SPIRIT IS GOD?
date:   19/01/2017
---

### DOES IT MATTER THAT THE HOLY SPIRIT IS GOD? 

(1 Peter 1:2)

What would be lost if the Holy Spirit were not God? Suppose, for a moment, the Holy Spirit were not fully God. Then the results for salvation would be serious. The Bible tells us that it is the job of the Holy Spirit to give new spiritual life to believers. So, the Holy Spirit lives within believers and fills them. He renews our thinking and changes our characters. He has the power to resurrect. And He makes Christ’s followers be as God is: holy. Again, suppose the Holy Spirit were not God. Then how could we be certain that He could do any of these things in a way that God would approve? 

`Read 1 Peter 1:2; 2 Corinthians 13:14; and Matthew 28:18, 19. The Holy Spirit is mentioned in these verses side by side with God the Father and Jesus Christ, the Son. What does this fact tell us about the praise and deep love that the Holy Spirit deserves and is worthy of in our worship of God?` 

The fact that the Holy Spirit is divine helps us to relate to Him in ways that accept and honor Him for who He is. Our spiritual lives depend on His being God. The New Testament church does not hesitate to mention the Holy Spirit side by side with the other Two Members of the Godhead. The Holy Spirit, then, occupies the same rank and level of importance in the act of baptism as do the Father and the Son. 

The Holy Spirit, then, is lifted up as a worthy object of worship in the New Testament. He is lifted up as God not just in baptism and in the benediction of the apostles. But He is lifted up also in our never-ending need to depend on Him for all spiritual good. So, we should obey Him as our Divine Teacher and Sanctifier (the One who makes us holy). Does it matter that the Holy Spirit is God? Yes, very much so. We must know who He truly is. And we must know and believe that He is God. Then we will honor His work. And then we will depend on Him for our own personal growth and sanctification (the act of being made holy). 

`Think about what it means that the Holy Spirit is God Himself and that He is working in your life. What great promises do we have that show that God is working in us to change us into what we can be in Him? Why is this truth uplifting (helpful) and positive?`

##### DEFINITIONS

7. **resurrect**—to return someone to life from the dead.
8. **Godhead**—the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit make up the Godhead. They are Three Persons who are One God.