---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   20/01/2017
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

Read Ellen G. White, “Misrepresentations [False Ideas] of the Godhead,” pages 613–617, in Evangelism.

This week we have learned that there is very strong proof in the Bible that the Holy Spirit is divine. At the same time, believing that the Holy Spirit is divine means more than simply accepting that He is equal with the Father and the Son. We must depend on, and trust in, the saving work of God the Father and the Son through the power of the Spirit. “It is not necessary for us to be able to explain just what the Holy Spirit is. . . . The Holy Spirit is a mystery. Men cannot explain who He is because the Lord has not shown that truth to them. There are verses in the Bible about the Holy Spirit. Men may try to put these verses together to create a picture of who they think the Holy Spirit is. But accepting these strange views will not strengthen the church. The Holy Spirit is a mystery that is too deep for human understanding. So, it is better to remain silent about what we do not understand than to speak as though we know.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 51, 52.

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`Austrian philosopher (thinker) Ludwig Wittgenstein once wrote, “What we cannot speak about we must pass over in silence.” He was referring to something quite different from what Ellen G. White was writing about in the quote above. But the principle (important rule) behind what both writers said is the same. So, why is it better to keep silent about certain truths and mysteries of God that have not been made clear by the Holy Spirit?`

`Sometimes it is helpful to think about a certain belief by asking the question, What would be lost if the belief were untrue? Now think about the Holy Spirit and ask the following question: What would be lost if the Holy Spirit were not fully God?`

`How is the following quote useful to our spiritual lives? “The Holy Spirit is to fill us. But He is not some force or feeling or power that has no personality. He is a Divine Person. He is to be received into the heart with deep meekness, worship, and obedience. In the end, it is not a question of our having more of Him, but of His having more of us—yes, all there is of us.”—Adapted from LeRoy Edwin Froom, The Coming of the Comforter [The Holy Spirit], page 159.`

##### DEFINITIONS

9. **Evangelism**—the work of traveling from place to place to preach the good news of Jesus Christ.
10. **meekness**—having a humble (not proud) heart; not being proud.
