---
title:  God’s Covenants With Us
date:  07/01/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matt. 10:22, John 6:29, Deut. 28:1–14, Prov. 3:1–10, Mal. 3:7–11, Matt. 6:25–33.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “ ‘Now it shall come to pass, if you diligently obey the voice of the Lord your God, to observe carefully all His commandments which I command you today, that the Lord your God will set you high above all nations of the earth. And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you, because you obey the voice of the Lord your God’ ” (Deuteronomy 28:1, 2, NKJV).

Amazingly enough, God has made contracts (or covenants) with us. Most are bilateral, meaning that both parties (God and humans) have a part to perform. An example of a bilateral covenant is “If you will do this, then I will do that.” Or “I will do this if you will do that.”

A rarer type of covenant is unilateral. “I will do this whether you do anything or not.” A few of God’s covenants with humanity are unilateral. For example, “ ‘He makes His sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust’ ” (Matt. 5:45, NKJV). Following the Flood, God promised humanity and “every beast of the earth” that there would never be another flood to cover all the earth (see Gen. 9:9–16), regardless of our actions. He also promised: “ ‘While the earth remains, seedtime and harvest, cold and heat, winter and summer, and day and night shall not cease’ ” (Gen. 8:22, NKJV). The seasons will come and go, regardless of what we do.

This week we will study some significant bilateral covenants between God and His children. Let’s pray that, by God’s grace, we will “uphold our end of the bargain.”

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, January 14._---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God is always giving; and upon whom are His gifts bestowed? Upon those who are faultless in character? “He maketh His sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.” Matthew 5:45. Notwithstanding the sinfulness of humanity, notwithstanding that we so often grieve the heart of Christ and prove ourselves most undeserving, yet when we ask His forgiveness, He does not turn us away. His love is freely extended to us, and He bids us: Love one another as I have loved you. John 13:34.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 6, p. 284.

As the multitudes followed Christ through the open fields, He unfolded to them the beauties of the natural world. He sought to open the eyes of their understanding, that they might see how the hand of God upholds the world. In order to call out an appreciation of God’s goodness and benevolence, He called the attention of His hearers to the gently falling dew, to the soft showers of rain and the bright sunshine, given alike to good and evil. He desired men to realize more fully the regard that God bestows on the human instrumentalities He has created.—The Desire of Ages, p. 524.

It is the keeping of the commandments of God that honors and glorifies Him in His chosen. Wherefore every soul to whom God has given reasoning faculties is under obligation to God to search the Word and ascertain all that is enjoined upon us as God’s purchased possession. We should seek to understand all that the Word requires of us. . . . We cannot show greater honor to our God, whose we are by creation and redemption, than to give evidence to the beings of heaven, to the worlds unfallen, and to fallen men, that we diligently hearken unto all His commandments, which are the laws that govern His kingdom.<br/>
We need to study diligently that we may gain a knowledge of the laws of God. How can we be obedient subjects if we fail to understand the laws that govern the kingdom of God? Then open your Bibles and search for everything that will enlighten you in regard to the precepts of God; and when you discern a Thus saith the Lord, ask not the opinion of men, but whatever the cost to yourself, obey cheerfully. Then the blessing of God will rest upon you.—Letter 82, 1895.

The question of deepest interest to each one should be, Am I meeting the requirements of the law of God? That law is holy, just, and good, and God would have us daily compare our actions with this, His great standard of righteousness. Only by a close examination of self in the light of God’s Word can we discover our deviations from His holy rule of right.<br/>
Love is the principle that underlies God’s government in heaven and on earth, and this love must be interwoven in the life of the Christian. The love of Christ is not a fitful love; it is deep, and broad, and full. Its possessor will not say, “I will love only those who love me.” The heart that is influenced by this holy principle will be carried above everything of a selfish nature.—That I May Know Him, p. 298.