---
title:  Remember, Do Not Forget
date:  27/11/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Gen. 9:8–17; Deut. 4:32–39; Rev. 14:12; Deut. 4:9, 23; Deut. 6:7; Deut. 8:7–18; Eph. 2:8–13.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “ ‘Remember! Do not forget how you provoked the Lord your God to wrath in the wilderness. From the day that you departed from the land of Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against the Lord’ ” (Deuteronomy 9:7, NKJV).

Two words appear all through the Bible: “remember” and “forget.” Both refer to something human, something that happens in our minds. Both are verbs, and they are opposites: to remember is not to forget, and to forget is not to remember.

God often tells His people to remember all the things that He has done for them; to remember His grace for them and His goodness toward them. So much of the Old Testament consisted of the prophets telling the people, the Hebrew people, not to forget what the Lord had done for them. But also, most important, they were not to forget what their calling in Him was and what kind of people they were to be in response to that calling. “I will remember the works of the Lord; surely I will remember Your wonders of old” (Ps. 77:11, NKJV).

Is it any different for us today, both at a corporate level and, even more so, at a personal one? How easy it is to forget what God has done for us.

This week, as expressed in Deuteronomy, we’ll look at this important principle, that of remembering and not forgetting God’s interaction in our lives.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, December 4._---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Most earnestly [David] studied the ways of God, expressed by Christ when enshrouded in the pillar of cloud, and given to Moses to be faithfully repeated to all Israel. He called to mind what God had wrought to secure for Himself a people to whom He could entrust sacred and vital truth for future ages. God wrought most wondrously to free more than a million people; and as David considered His pledges and promises to them, knowing they were for all who need them as much as for Israel, he appropriated them to himself, saying, “I will remember the works of the Lord: surely I will remember thy wonders of old. I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doing.”<br/>
His faith laid hold of God, and he was strengthened and encouraged; although he recognized God’s ways as mysterious, yet he knew they were merciful and good; for this was His character as revealed to Moses. . . .<br/>
As David appropriated these promises and privileges to himself he decided that he would no longer be hasty in judgment, becoming discouraged, and casting himself down in helpless despair. His soul took courage as he contemplated the general character of God as displayed in His teaching, His forbearance, His surpassing greatness and mercy.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary_, vol. 3, p. 1149.

Great things are before us, and we want to call the people from their indifference, to get ready for that day. We are not now to cast away our confidence, but to have firm assurance, firmer than ever before. Hitherto hath the Lord helped us, and He will help us to the end. We will look to the monumental pillars, reminders of what the Lord hath done for us, to comfort and to save us from the hand of the destroyer. We want to have fresh in our memory every tear the Lord has wiped from our eyes, every pain He has soothed, every anxiety removed, every fear dispelled, every want supplied, every mercy bestowed, and strengthen ourselves for all that is before us through the remainder of our pilgrimage.<br/>
We can but look onward to new perplexities in the coming conflict, but we may well look on what is past as well as what is to come, and say, “Hitherto hath the Lord helped us” (1 Samuel 7:12). . . . The trial will not exceed the strength which shall be given us to bear it.—_This Day With God_, p. 58.

The things we ourselves have experienced of the blessings of God through His gracious promises we may hang in memory’s halls, and whether rich or poor, learned or illiterate, we may look and may consider these tokens of God’s love. Every token of God’s care and goodness and mercy should be hung as imperishable mementos in memory’s halls. God would have His love, His promises, written upon the tablets of the mind. Guard the precious revealings of God that not a letter shall become obliterated or dimmed.—_Our High Calling_, p. 135.