---
title:  Enduring Faith of Jesus
date:  04/06/2023
---

#### inGest

As we have seen in Revelation 14:7, God calls all people to worship the Creator. This is the first angel’s message. In Revelation 14:8 God warns people about “Babylon,” a false religious system with roots in the ancient city of Babylon. This is the second angel’s message. In Revelation 14:9, 10, the third angel warns against worshiping the beast. The angel declares in a loud voice, “If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand, he himself shall also drink of the wine of the wrath of God.”

In Revelation 14:12 the Greek word for “patience” is hupomone, which is better translated “steadfast endurance.” God will have an end-time people who are loyal to Him in the face of opposition and fierce persecution. Through His grace they stand with steadfast endurance, living God-centered, grace-filled, obedient lives.

Worshiping the Creator (Rev. 14:7) stands in direct opposition to worshiping the beast (verse 9) and finds its expression in a people who keep the commandments of God and live by the faith of Jesus (verse 12). This final conflict over allegiance to Christ or to the beast revolves around worship, and at the heart of this concluding act of the great controversy between good and evil will be the Sabbath.

Living by faith, we receive His grace and our lives are changed. The committed followers of the Savior will not only have faith “in” Jesus, they will also have the faith “of” Jesus. Jesus’ quality of end-time faith will be theirs, and they will remain faithful, even unto death, as Jesus did.

Hanging on the cross, enshrouded in darkness, bearing the guilt, shame, and condemnation of the sins of the world, and shut off from the sense of His Father’s love, Jesus depended on the relationship He had cultivated with the Father throughout His life. In other words, through a life of complete dependence upon the Father, even in good times, Jesus had prepared for the worst times. The Savior trusted, even when all around Him the circumstances cried out for Him to doubt. Even when it seemed that God had forsaken Him, Jesus didn’t give up. Ellen G. White sums it up as follows: “Amid the awful darkness, apparently forsaken of God, Christ had drained the last dregs in the cup of human woe. In those dreadful hours He had relied upon the evidence of His Father’s acceptance heretofore given Him. . . . By faith, Christ was victor” (Christ Triumphant [Hagerstown, Md.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1999], p. 277).

The faith of Jesus is a faith so deep, so trusting, so committed, that all the trials on earth and all the demons in the cosmos cannot shake it. It is a faith that trusts when it cannot see, believes when it cannot understand, hangs on when there is little to hang on to. This “faith of Jesus” is itself a gift we receive by faith that will carry us through the crisis ahead. It is “the faith of Jesus” dwelling in our hearts that enables us to worship Christ as supreme and to endure steadfastly when Revelation’s mark of the beast comes to fruition.

However, this faith is not something that suddenly appears. God’s people have been learning to live by faith day by day in the here and now, before things have gotten difficult. In good times, in bad times, when God feels close, when He seems far away—it doesn’t matter, for “the just shall live by faith” (Gal. 3:11; see also Hab. 2:4). The time for preparation is now. Every trial now, if endured in faith, can bear precious fruit in our lives that will strengthen us in the difficult times ahead.

Journal:

`How faithful are you in the little things? What might that tell you about how you will be when the real trial comes?`

`Think about a time when life seemed to crumble around you and all that you had was your faith. How did you get by? What lessons did you learn? What did you experience that could help others who might be going through something similar?`

` `