---
title:  Following the Lamb
date:  05/06/2023
---

#### inTerpret

The prophecy regarding the mark of the beast is about religious intolerance, an economic boycott, persecution, and eventually a death decree. Surprisingly, it is also a message of encouragement. Even in the worst of times God will sustain His people, who “keep the commandments of God and [have] the faith of Jesus” (Rev. 14:12, NKJV). Among those commandments, of course, is the fourth: that of the seventh-day Sabbath.

The mark of the beast prophecy in Revelation 13 tells us about the worst of Satan’s war against God. His first strategy in this campaign is deception. The above passage tells of a time in the future when the devil will work through an earthly religiopolitical power called the beast and will resort to using force to attempt to combat and silence God’s people.

Religious persecution, of course, is not new. It has been around ever since Cain killed Abel for worshiping the way God instructed them to worship (see Gen. 4:1–8). Jesus said persecution would happen even to believers in the first century and would continue down through the ages: “The time is coming,” He warned, “that whoever kills you will think that he offers God service” (John 16:2; see also Matt. 10:22; 1 Pet. 4:12).

The prophecy concerning the mark of the beast is about the final link in this ungodly chain of persecution. Like the persecutions of the past, it is designed to force everyone to conform to a certain set of beliefs and system of worship.

The prophecy says the persecution will involve economic sanctions: No one can “buy or sell” unless they have “the mark.” When this happens, the vast majority of the world’s inhabitants will capitulate. Anyone who refuses will eventually face a death decree.

The devil is preparing professed Christians by compromises in their lives to receive the mark of the beast when the final test comes upon us in the future. God’s love for each one of us will strengthen and preserve us during the troubling times ahead.

The first beast of Revelation 13 receives his power, seat, and great authority from the dragon. Revelation 12:9 and Revelation 20:2 identify the dragon as Satan, a cunning foe who works through earthly powers. Revelation 12:3–5 says this “dragon”—the devil—attempted to destroy the “male Child” as soon as He was born. This “male Child” was later “caught up to God and His throne” (verse 5). This, of course, refers to Christ. Desiring to destroy the Christ child, Satan worked through Herod and imperial Rome. At the end of Jesus’ life, a Roman governor, Pilate, condemned Christ to die, a Roman executioner nailed Him to a cruel cross, a Roman soldier pierced Him with a spear, and Roman soldiers guarded His tomb. According to Revelation 13:2, the dragon, Satan, working through pagan Rome, would give the seat of its government to this emerging beast power. The SDA Bible Commentary has this to say regarding the identity of both the dragon and the first beast: “Though primarily representing Satan, the dragon, in a secondary sense, represents the Roman Empire. . . . The power succeeding the Roman Empire, which received from the dragon ‘his power, and his seat, and great authority,’ [KJV], is clearly papal Rome” (vol. 7, p. 817), and historian A. C. Flick explains that “out of the ruins of political Rome arose the great moral Empire in the ‘giant form’ of the Roman Church” (The Rise of the Medieval Church [1900], p. 150, as quoted in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 817).

In contrast to “all the world,” who follows the beast, God will have a people who will “follow the Lamb” instead. As always, it will be one side or the other, for Jesus or against Jesus. There will be then, as now, no middle ground, no neutral position. To not firmly commit to Jesus is, consciously or not, to commit to the other side. How ready are you to endure to the end?

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do you personally live a life that embodies a faith that “endures to the end”?`

` `