---
title:  Our Only Mediator
date:  07/06/2023
---

#### inVite

The beast of Revelation is an apostate religious power that rises out of pagan Rome and grows to become a worldwide system of worship. According to Revelation 13:5, it is a blasphemous power. In the New Testament, blasphemy is equated with assuming the privileges and prerogatives of God as an equal instead of recognizing His superiority and sovereignty as we ought.

In Luke 5:18–26 Jesus was accused of blasphemy by the religious leaders of His day. In Jesus’ case the accusations were unjust because He had all the powers and prerogatives of God, including the right to forgive our sins, and that is because Jesus is God. Or, as He so powerfully expressed it: “Have I been with you so long, and yet you have not known Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father; so how can you say, ‘Show us the Father’?” (John 14:9).

Meanwhile, 1 Timothy 2:5 teaches that there is one Mediator between God and man, the Man Jesus Christ. In contrast, the Roman Church teaches that the priest is the mediator between God and sinful humanity. But because the priest himself is a sinful human being, he cannot be our mediator, because he too needs a mediator. Blasphemy is also defined as the claim of any man to be God or to stand in the place of God. Here are just two statements from the Roman Church’s authoritative sources:

“The pope is of so great dignity and so exalted that he is not a mere man. . . . he is as it were GOD on earth” (Lucius Ferraris, “Papa,” in Prompta Bibliotheca [1763], vol. 6, pp. 25–29).

Pope Leo XIII boasted: “We [the popes] hold upon this earth the place of God Almighty” (The Great Encyclical Letters of Pope Leo XIII [New York: Benziger, 1903], p. 193).

These claims become even more relevant when we understand that the word “anti-,” as in anti-Christ, doesn’t always mean “against” but can also mean “in the place of.” Antichrist therefore also means “in place of Christ.” Talk about blasphemy!

Journal:

`Meditate on this week’s passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`Where are other forms of blasphemy have you witnessed?`

`How has Jesus been your personal meditator?`

` `