---
title:  A Clearer Picture of God
date:   04/04/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** John 17

Having a clear understanding of God’s character is foundational to building a strong relationship with Him. That’s why, this week, we will look carefully at what the Bible says about the character of God, keeping in mind that it “is the darkness of misapprehension of God that is enshrouding the world. Men are losing their knowledge of His character. It has been misunderstood and misinterpreted. At this time a message from God is to be proclaimed, a message illuminating in its influence and saving in its power. His character is to be made known. Into the darkness of the world is to be shed the light of His glory, the light of His goodness, mercy, and truth.… The last message of mercy to be given to the world, is a revelation of His character of love.”<sup>1</sup>

Here on earth, we will never know everything there is to know about God’s wonderful character. However, as we learn more about Him, our understanding of and love for Him will deepen. As a result, we will long to grow closer to Him in order to reflect His love and character to others.

Describing God adequately seems impossible, so the most we can do is point to what the Bible says about Him. The Bible presents the truest, clearest, and most consistent picture of God. The entire Bible seeks to peel back the unseen veil between our visible world and the invisible, to show us where we’ve come from and where we’re going, and, ultimately, to show us who’s in control and what He’s like.

From Genesis to Revelation, we read about the one true God, who makes Himself known to us through the Bible and through Jesus Christ, God incarnate. We can read about God’s omnipotence (Jer. 32:17), His omniscience, His all-knowing nature (Isa. 46:9, 10), His justice (Isa. 30:18), His mercy (Deut. 7:9), His lovingkindness and patience with us (Rom. 2:4), His wisdom (Rom. 11:33), His grace (2 Cor. 12:9), His forgiveness (Eph. 1:7), His will for our lives (Jer. 29:11), His power to defeat death (John 11:25), His kingship (Ps. 47:8), His eternal nature (Deut. 33:27), and many other characteristics that give us abundant reasons to love Him and have an abiding relationship with Him. The more we know about God and what He’s like, the more we will love Him and desire a close and abiding relationship with Him.

Lucifer was the first to doubt God’s character. His doubts about who God is ultimately led to the greatest battle in the history of the universe. Ever since that time, “it is Satan’s constant study to keep the minds of men occupied with those things which will prevent them from obtaining the knowledge of God.”<sup>2</sup> Satan doesn’t care what kind of picture of God we have (pantheistic, deistic, polytheistic, etc.), as long as it’s not an accurate one.

Beginning with the temptation in the Garden of Eden, Satan’s constant goal has been to besmirch God’s character and undermine people’s confidence in Him. The tempter suggested to Eve that she had misplaced her trust in God (Gen. 3:1–5). Ultimately, Satan’s message to Eve was this: God is keeping secrets from you. God does not want what is best for you. Ellen White expanded on this idea: “From the opening of the great controversy it has been Satan’s purpose to misrepresent God’s character and to excite rebellion against His law.”<sup>3</sup> Satan led our first parents to doubt God’s goodness. From that point onward, the battle on this earth has been about God and His character. Each of us gets to decide who we believe. Do we fully believe God and His promises, or do we entertain the accusations of the enemy?

### inScribe

`Write out John 17:1–5 from the translation of your choice. Evaluate the meaning of Christ’s prayer and the importance of personally knowing God.`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons (1900), 415.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5 (1889), 740.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets (1890), 338.