---
title:  Knowing God’s Holiness
date:   05/04/2026
---

### inGest

We receive eternal life by knowing God (John 17:3). Jesus came into this world so that He could reveal God’s true character to us. Knowing God means peeling away all the lies about and distortions of His character so that we can see Him clearly. This requires that we set aside our preconceived ideas about God and reframe how we think about Him.

When Jesus prayed to His Father, He sometimes called Him, “Holy Father” (John 17:11). Holiness is not a word that most people use often in their everyday language, perhaps because holiness is so foreign to us. The Sabbath is a holy day in time, and God is, of course, a holy being. Apart from God, for the most part, our everyday lives lack holiness. If you do a study into the attributes most often associated with God’s character, you’ll discover that holiness is at the center of who God is. But what does that mean?

When the Bible describes God as the epitome of holiness, it means He is totally void of and completely separate from evil and sin. God is one hundred percent good from beginning to end (James 1:17; 1 John 1:5). In this sense, God’s holiness is central to all His other attributes. For example, God’s love is a pure, holy love—a love that’s completely free from all selfishness and egotistic motives. His omniscience (knowledge of everything) is holy omniscience, meaning it’s free from evil intentions. Would we trust an omniscient God if He weren’t holy? We would be afraid of Him, and rightly so. His omnipotence (limitless power) is holy omnipotence. Imagine a God who is omnipotent but not holy. He would be a powerful, evil tyrant. Only God’s holiness enables us to love Him fully and freely, because He is good from beginning to end. This truth is why holiness is arguably the most important facet of God’s character to understand—though it is perhaps one of the most misunderstood as well.

Think about Bible characters such as Moses, Isaiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, and John, who entered God’s presence. What was their first response? They removed their shoes, hid their faces, or fell down as though dead. As human beings, we are so sinful and unholy that we cannot bear to even stand in God’s presence. The four living creatures, sinless beings next to God’s throne, are also overwhelmed by God’s holiness. They can’t help but to proclaim day and night, “Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come!” (Rev. 4:8).

**Questions to explore:**

`God is pure holiness, and when we come to Him, we must see Him as such. How does knowing this inspire you? In what ways does this challenge you regarding your own character?`