---
title:  Knowing God’s Love
date:   06/04/2026
---

### inTerpret

In the prayer recorded in John 17, Jesus identified many wonderful attributes of God’s character. As His prayer built in intensity, He ended by focusing on one of God’s most important characteristics: His love. Jesus yearned for people to know God and experience His love. “O righteous Father! The world has not known You, but I have known You; and these have known that You sent Me. And I have declared to them Your name, and will declare it, that the love with which You loved Me may be in them, and I in them” (John 17:25, 26).

Love is perhaps the most common word Christians use to describe God’s character, maybe because of the identity statement in 1 John 4:8, which says, “God is love.” John didn’t say, “God is loving,” but rather, “God is love.” Love is His character, the very essence of who He is.

Many people’s picture of God emerges from their human definition of love, which is always distorted and imperfect. It ought to be the opposite: our very definition of love should be shaped by who God is and what He reveals about Himself in His inspired Word. God’s love is perfect, free, and deeply relational, as revealed in the repeated invitation to “abide” in Him in 1 John, because “we have known and believed the love that God has for us. God is love, and he who abides in love abides in God, and God in him” (1 John 4:16). God is love, and He created us in His image (Gen. 1:27) to love and to desire love. In Hebrew, one major word for love is hesed. This word describes God’s covenant love for humankind, which encompasses loyalty, protectiveness, steadfastness, and tenderness.

The ancient Hebrew and Greek use many different names to refer to God, each shedding light on different aspects of God’s beautiful character. For example, Adonai means the Lord of all who reigns forever, in reference to the covenant (Gen. 15:2, Judg. 6:15, Mal. 1:6, Ps. 97:5), and Yahweh-Yireh means The-Lord-Will-Provide (Gen. 22:13, 14).

God’s gift of His Son to this earth is the greatest expression of His love (John 3:16; Rom. 5:8). God could have withheld this gift from humankind, but because of His magnanimous, radical, supremely altruistic love, He sent Jesus to earth to give us the opportunity to freely choose to respond to His love. Jesus not only bridged the separation that sin created between us and God (Isa. 59:1, 2) but He also lived to show us God’s perfect character of love (John 14:9, Heb. 1:3) and to draw all people to Himself (John 12:32).

God could have withheld this gift from humankind, but because of His magnanimous, radical, supremely altruistic love, He sent Jesus to earth to give us the opportunity to freely choose to respond to His love.

`Read 1 Cor. 13:4–8 and replace each use of the word “love” with “God.” How does this expand your understanding of God’s character? If you were to place your name where it says “love,” how well would that fit you?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from John 17. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._