---
title: 'God With Us'
date: 09/04/2026
---

### inVite

If you were looking to present a biblical description of God’s character to a non-Christian, where would you turn? The best answer, of course, would be Jesus. The Bible says Jesus not only reflects God but also reveals God. Many Bible passages explain this, but the one that does so the most simply is John 14:9. Here, Jesus says, “He who has seen Me has seen the Father.” In order to know more about what God is like, we should look to Jesus—His words, actions, mannerisms, and great love for humanity as portrayed by His death and resurrection.

God has given us four rich perspectives on Jesus’ life so we can have a full picture of who He is. In Matthew, written by a Jew for fellow Jews, we see Jesus as the long-awaited Messiah who fulfilled the Old Testament promises. In Mark, an action-packed book written for a wide audience, we encounter Jesus living an active life of service and sacrifice, always thinking of others and always responsive to the will of His Father. Luke, written by a scholar and intended to strengthen the faith of believers (Luke 1:3, 4), presents Jesus’ perfect humanity and emphasizes His compassion for those who are marginalized. John, written by one of Jesus’ closest companions, emphasizes Christ’s divinity and invites all to experience spiritual revival by believing that Jesus is who He says He is. Although all four Gospels explore the same ground, “they do not represent things in just the same style. Each writer has an experience of his own, and this diversity broadens and deepens the knowledge that is brought out to meet the necessities of varied minds.”<sup>1</sup> Each Gospel looks at Jesus from a slightly different angle.

Everything Jesus said and did provides a window into who God is. When Jesus came to this earth, He was “God with us” (Matt. 1:23). His coming brought God’s presence to earth, not just for that generation but for all time. Before He returned to heaven, He pledged to His disciples that He would not abandon them: “I am with you always, even to the end of the age” (Matt. 28:20). Thus, the Gospels are not just stories about events that happened long ago; they are windows into God’s character and who He is still today.

We’ve touched only the surface of this huge topic. God is greater and more incredible than we can fathom, and we will forever be learning about Him—even into eternity.

**Questions to consider:**

`Take some time now to offer up a prayer of praise to God for who He is. Be specific about what the Bible tells you about God. (For example, “Thank You, God, for being faithful, as You tell me in Deuteronomy 7:9. Thank You, God, for being my comfort and provision and protection, as You tell me in Psalm 23.”)`

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Letter 53, 1900.