---
title: inQuire
date: 11/04/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Knowing God:**

1. Why is it so important to know God? John 17:1–3
2. What and/or who should we study to find the clearest picture of God? John 14:9; Matt. 1:23
3. How did the tempter try to get Eve to doubt her knowledge of God? Gen. 3:1–5

`Personal reflection: How is God’s character misrepresented in our world? More importantly, how might you at times have misrepresented His character to others? If you have, what can you do to change with the Holy Spirit’s help?`

**Holiness:**

1. What does holiness mean? See this week’s inGest.
2. Why is understanding God’s holiness essential for knowing God? John 17:11; Rev. 4:8
3. How should God’s people reflect His holiness? 1 Pet. 1:13–16

`Personal reflection: Has there ever been a time when you especially sensed God’s holiness? How did that impact your view of God?`

**God’s love:**

1. As Jesus’ prayer in John 17 built in intensity, what was the final aspect of God’s character that He prayed for us to know? Why was it so important to Him? John 17:25, 26
2. How does love encompass God’s character better than any other description? 1 John 4:7–10
3. How should we reflect God’s love to others? 1 John 4:11; John 15:9–13

`Personal reflection: What has helped you the most to deepen your understanding of God’s love? How has your view of God’s character changed over time?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- God has always desired to be in a close relationship with us. Having a clear picture of God is essential if we want to deepen our relationship with Him.
- Although our understanding of God’s character is the target of Satan’s attacks, God reveals Himself to us most clearly through His Word and through the life of His Son, Jesus.
- Knowing God’s holiness and His love is foundational for knowing God.