### The Three Angels’ Messages

The first Adventists believed that Jesus was coming back to earth on October 22,1844. But Jesus didn’t come back. Many people felt sad when that happened. So, this time was named the Great Disappointment of 1844. This name means a time of deep sadness.
      
On October 15, 1844, a boy was born to a religious Lutheran family in Germany. The boy was born one week before the Great Disappointment. The boy’s name was Friedrich Nietzsche. He would grow up to become one of the most powerful atheists in modern times. An atheist is someone who doesn’t believe in God. Nietzsche believed that the Christian God was dead. So, Nietzsche attacked the Christian religion. Nietzsche said that Christian teachings turned people into slaves. He believed Bible truth made people weak. He thought that the Bible teaching “love your enemies” was a silly idea. Nietzsche believed that modern people needed to throw out Christian ideas about “good and evil.” He said that these ideas were out-of-date and old fashioned. Nietzsche wrote books about his ideas against Christianity. One of his books was named Thus Spake Zarathustra. One of the characters in this book announces, “Smash the old law tablets!” (By tablets he means the Ten Commandments.)

The year 1844 also was important for a man named Karl Marx. Marx started communism. Communism is the belief about how a government should run and manage a country. This belief includes the idea that no one is better or more important than anyone else. In a Communist country, workers control how things are made. In 1844, Karl Marx wrote “Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts of 1844.” The Soviet Union printed Marx’s writings in 1932. The writings show Marx’s ideas. He said that the workers all over the earth will join together in the future and take control away from their government leaders. Then the workers will start a perfect community on earth. The year 1844 also is important for Charles Darwin. Darwin wrote an article that is now named the “Essay of 1844.” In this essay, Darwin talks about his idea named evolution. Evolution is a false teaching that says that life on earth started because of slow changes in plants and animals that happened over a very long time.

The year 1844 also was the time when the 2,300-day time message in Daniel 8:14 happened. That time also was named the Great Disappointment. Soon after the Great Disappointment, God started a new church. This church became the Seventh-day Adventist Church. God gave this worldwide church an important message. This message rejected the teachings of Nietzsche, Marx, and Darwin.

The Seventh-day Adventist religion teaches how the history on this earth will end. History will not end as Marx says it will. Remember, Marx said history will end when workers join together and take control away from their leaders. Then the workers will build a man-made community that is perfect. Adventists teach that this idea is false. History will end when God starts His everlasting kingdom.

The Seventh-day Adventist religion also teaches that life started when God made the skies and the earth in six days. So, life didn’t start with evolution, as Darwin says.

The Seventh-day Adventist Church announces that God is not dead. There is a living God, for sure. This God has a law that teaches everyone right from wrong. This law is the Ten Commandments. God will use this law to judge all humans who ever lived.

So, as we saw already, Nietzsche was born in 1844, and Marx and Darwin wrote many of their important ideas in 1844. Isn’t it interesting that the year 1844 is important in the lives of all three of these famous thinkers? Do you think it was only luck that these men were born or wrote important works in the same year that God started the Seventh-day Adventist Church? Careful, we should not think so.

For sure, Nietzsche, Marx, and Darwin all are very powerful thinkers. Sad to say, their writings and teachings have hurt many people. But God gave us hope and Bible truth. He started a church that became a worldwide church. This church must announce God’s end-time message to everyone on earth. This announcement is named the Three Angels’ Messages. These messages reject the false ideas that Nietzsche, Marx, and Darwin taught.

The Three Angels’ Messages show the members of the Seventh-day Adventist Church the work that God wants them to do. The Three Angels’ Messages show us the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin. The Three Angels’ Messages are “present truth” for our time (2 Peter 1:12, NKJV). Present truth is the Bible truth we need most for the time we live in today.

This quarter we will study the Three Angels’ Messages.

_Mark Finley was born in the state of Connecticut in the United States of America. He has preached in many different countries worldwide. He worked as a top leader at the General Conference from 2005 to 2010. The General Conference is the headquarters for the Seventh-day Adventist Church. After Pastor Finley retired from full-time work, he worked part-time for the president of the General Conference. Pastor Finley and his wife, Ernestine, have three children and five grandchildren._