---
title:  "In the Book of Psalms: Part 1"
date:   17/05/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Hebrews 9:11–15; Psalm 15; Psalm 24; Exodus 33:18–23; Psalm 5; Revelation 14:1–12; Psalm 51:7-15.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Then I looked, and there before me was the Lamb, who was standing on Mount Zion. There were 144,000 people with him. They all had his name and his Father’s name written on their foreheads [front part of the face above the eyes]” (Revelation 14:1, ERV).

As Seventh-day Adventists, we search the stories of the Old Testament to find the same symbols that also are used in the book of Revelation. These stories help us understand better the symbols in the book of Revelation. These stories aren’t the only parts of the Bible that contain the symbols.

The book of Psalms also contains the symbols we read about in the book of Revelation. The book of Psalms is a collection of holy poems and songs. These poems and songs talk about many human experiences. These experiences include suffering and feeling sad about sin to feeling joy because of God’s promises of forgiveness and mercy.

For sure, when we carefully read the book of Psalms, we will understand better the book of Revelation. We will understand Revelation 14, which talks about the last work of God’s end-time church. God gave His end-time church the same job He gave to Israel of old: we must share God’s message of mercy with everyone on earth.

The book of Psalms can give us new ways to understand our work in the last days of earth’s history.