---
title:  Our High Priest or Top Spiritual Leader
date:   18/05/2025
---

God told Moses to build Him a holy tent where He could live among His people. Moses wasn’t allowed to follow just any design he liked. God gave Moses a special plan to follow: “ ‘Be sure to make everything just like [the same as] the pattern I showed you on the mountain’ ” (Exodus 25:40, NIrV). The book of Hebrews tells us that Moses copied the pattern of the temple in heaven.

`Read Hebrews 9:11–15 about Jesus as our High Priest in heaven’s temple. What do these verses teach us about what Jesus does for us there right now?`

The Old Testament symbols for offerings and worship showed the future work that Jesus would do. Everything in the holy tent from the furniture and the offerings to the priests or holy leaders tells us about Jesus.

The book of Revelation contains a lot of these symbols. In Revelation chapter 1, we read about the lampstands. In chapter 11, we read about the ark of God’s promise. If we have an understanding of the Old Testament holy tent, then we will better understand John’s dreams in the book of Revelation. As Paul says, the experiences of Israel during Old Testament times “happened to show us something. They were written to teach us that the end of the world is near” (1 Corinthians 10:11, NLV).

We can learn much when we study about the temple during Old Testament times. In the book of Psalms, we learn some important information that helps us understand more about the temple. We learn about how God’s people felt about the temple and what the coming Savior would do for them. These things help us see Jesus. When we understand the lessons that God was teaching us in the temple, we can learn important lessons for ourselves about our own experiences with God.

`Read Psalm 122. We can’t go to God’s house as the Israelites in Old Testament times did. But we can think about everything the Lord does for us. Notice the ideas about peace, safety, and praise. How does Psalm 122 give us hope about what the Lord does for us?`