---
title:  Mount Zion
date:   19/05/2025
---

In Revelation 14, God’s people stand on Mount Zion. A mount is a very high hill. The first Mount Zion was west of the old city of Jerusalem. The Israelites thought God lived among them on Mount Zion. Later, the Jewish temple was built on Mount Moriah. So, the Jews thought that the temple on Mount Moriah was part of Mount Zion, too.

`Read Psalms 15 and 24, where David asks an important question: “Who can live on your holy mountain?” (Psalm 15:1, ERV; also read Psalm 24:3). Compare David’s answer in these psalms with John’s picture of the people standing on Zion in Revelation 14:1–5. What things are the same in both of David’s songs and in this chapter that John wrote? How do we join this group? Do you see that the Father’s name is written in the front part of people’s faces above their eyes (Revelation 14:1)? What does that mean?`

The people in David’s poems are allowed to live with God. As sinners, we are far from being this perfect. Who can say that we always do what is fair and right? Who has always told the truth and never lied (Psalm 15:2)? If we say that we never sinned, we lie (1 John 1:8).

Jesus, the Lamb, gives us the strength to stand on Zion. David doesn’t talk about the Lamb in his song. But John writes about the Lamb in Revelation 14. Revelation 14 is the answer to David’s question. Because the Lamb of God stands on Mount Zion, in God’s holy temple, we also can live there with Him in faith. We can enter with hope and courage: “Brothers and sisters, because of the blood of Jesus we can now confidentally [with courage] go into the holy place. Jesus has opened a new and living way for us to go through the curtain. (The curtain is [the same as] his own body.)” (Hebrews 10:19, 20, GW). Without Jesus’ blood, what hope do we have? No hope at all!

`Think about all the Bible promises God gave us to win the fight against sin. God promises us that we will also beat sin. Why do we need Jesus and His perfect life as our substitute?`