---
title:  Law in Our Hearts
date:   20/05/2025
---

A small group stands on Mount Zion. They each have a name written in the front part of their faces above their eyes. Whose name? The name of the Father and the Lamb. Is this name two different names? Of course not! Jesus and the Father are One, right? A name in the Bible means more than a label that people use for each other. A name shows what is in a person’s heart. To this day, many people say that someone has a “good name” when other people think this person is a good man or woman.

`Read Exodus 33:18–23; Exodus 34:1–7; and Psalm 119:55. When Moses asked to see God’s glory, what did God promise to show him? What happened after God announced His name to Moses (Exodus 34:5)?`

Some people think that God’s glory is a bright shining light that no one can come near. This picture is correct. At the same time, God’s glory is more than a bright light. God’s glory also includes His love and mercy. The same is true with God’s name.

When the Bible talks about a small group of people with God’s name written in the front part of the faces above their eyes, it is not talking about real letters written on their skin! What the Bible really means is that God’s love, forgiveness, and mercy are written in your mind, your heart, and in your life. We show that God’s name is in our lives when we show His love to other people. God saved you, and you love Him for who He is and what He did for you.

When God announces His love and mercy to Moses, He also gives Moses another copy of the Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments show us the love that is in the Father’s heart. The people who have God’s name in Revelation 14 obey the commandments of God. Now notice these words written in the book of Hebrews: “ ‘This is the New Way of Worship that I will give them. When that day comes, says the Lord, I will put My Laws in their hearts. And I will write them in their minds.’ Then He says, ‘I will not remember their sins and wrong-doings anymore’ ” (Hebrews 10:16, 17, NLV).

God’s name shows everyone who He is. His law also shows who He is. The members of the group who stand on God’s holy hill in the end times are filled with love for God. Their obedience to God’s law shows their love for Him.