---
title:  Psalm 5
date:   21/05/2025
---

`Read Psalm 5. In this poem, David compares the lost with the saved. Compare Psalm 5 with Revelation 14:1–12. What things do you find the same in both sets of verses? How does your answer help you understand what it means to be part of God’s end-time church?`

David says that God doesn’t “live with those [people] who do evil” (Psalm 5:4, ICB). The reason God told His people to build Him a holy tent in Old Testament times was so He could live with them. The same thing will happen in God’s kingdom (read Revelation 21:3). People who come near to God’s throne must be saved.

David talks about worship in Psalm 5:7. Worship is the most important topic in the worldwide war between God and Satan. Revelation 13 talks about “worship” five times. The three angels’ messages invite everyone on earth to worship the God who made everything. David tells us that he fears, or honors and obeys, God. The first angel’s message tells everyone on earth to “ ‘fear [honor] God and give him praise. The time has come for God to judge all people. Worship God. He made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water [places where water comes out of the earth]’ ” (Revelation 14:7, ERV).

Also, do you see that the saved in Revelation 14 don’t tell any lies (Revelation 14:5)? They tell the truth. Their words and behavior show God’s love and mercy. Evil people, on the other hand, don’t tell the truth (Psalm 5:9).

John shows us an amazing scene in this part of Revelation (chapter 14). God saved sinners from death. Now they stand with God. These sinners didn’t earn this favor from God. God gave them this gift because the Lamb of God, Jesus, stands there with them. God forgives them and saves them. They no longer must suffer for their own guilt (compare with Psalm 5:10). The Lamb of God removes their guilt. He accepted their punishment and died in their place (compare with Isaiah 53:12 and 2 Corinthians 5:21).

When God writes His name in your heart, you can’t stay silent. God’s people give one final offer of mercy with a loud cry (Revelation 14:7). “But let those who trust in you be happy forever. Protect and strengthen [make strong] those [people] who love your name” (Psalm 5:11, ERV).