---
title:  Teach Sinners Your Way
date:   22/05/2025
---

After the Lord appeared to Isaiah in Isaiah 6:1–8, Isaiah learned that his sins were removed. Then Isaiah answered God’s invitation to serve Him. Isaiah said, “ ‘Here I am. Send me!’ ” (Isaiah 6:8, ERV). For sure, Isaiah knew what all his faults were. But as soon as Isaiah knew that God accepted him, he was ready to work for the Lord.

It’s the same with us, too, right? How can we announce the good news about God’s saving mercy to other people if we don’t have it ourselves? We can have this gift if we have faith in Jesus and everything He does for us.

`Read Psalm 51:7–15. What does David promise to do after God forgives his sin?`

When God invites us to come into His shining light, He will soon send us back out to save other people. God asks the people He saves to serve Him. He sends them as His messengers to save other sinners. Soon, in our near future, God’s people will give His final message in a powerful way. Revelation 18:1 tells us that God’s final invitation to a lost planet will fill the whole earth with Bible truth.

“When a person comes to Jesus, he wants to tell other people that Jesus is His precious friend. The saved person can’t hide the truth about Jesus in his heart. We must put on Jesus’ holy life the same as clothes. Then Jesus will fill us with the joy of His Spirit. We won’t stay silent about Jesus. If we know that the Lord is good, we will have something to tell other people. We will be much the same as Philip when he found the Savior. We will invite other people to come to Him.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 78, adapted.

In Revelation 14, the three angels’ messages are connected to the Good News that continues forever (Revelation 14:6). So, the first message that God’s end-time people will announce is the Good News that Jesus saves sinners. Then God’s people will tell sinners to worship Him and give the warnings about Babylon and the beast power. That’s because the three angels’ warnings and messages don’t mean anything without the hope and promise that we have in Jesus. Without the Good News about Jesus, we don’t have anything of worth to say to other people.