---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   23/05/2025
---

“David’s poems and songs share many human experiences: from sorrow and guilt to faith and love for God. David’s life record shows that sin brings shame and suffering. But God’s love and mercy can save anyone. Faith will cause people who are sorry for their sins to become the children of God. . . .

“ ‘You said, “I made an agreement with my chosen king.\
I made this promise to my servant David:” . . .\
I will always love and support him.\
I will always make him strong.\
I will put him in charge of the sea.\
He will control the rivers.\
He will say to me, “You are my father.\
You are my God, my Rock, my Savior.”\
And I will make him my firstborn son.\
He will be the great king on earth.\
My love will protect him forever.\
My agreement with him will never end.’ Psalm 89:3–28 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 754, 755, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`David made many mistakes. But God used him to communicate to us the truth about His saving mercy. How does David show us Jesus’ future work? Why can we hope only in one Person, Jesus?`

`Which of the songs or poems in the book of Psalms helped you in the past? How did they help you understand better an experience you went through?`

`Why does the book of Psalms talk so much about God’s temple? What can we learn from David’s love for God’s temple? How can David’s love for the temple help us feel more thankful for Jesus and everything He is doing for us right now in heaven (read Romans 8:34)? Why do God’s people today need Jesus’ help in heaven?`

`Read again the Ellen G. White quote above. How did God’s saving mercy help you to feel sorry for your sins? How did you become God’s child?`