---
title:  Further Thought
date:  01/11/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “At Jacob’s Well,” pp. 183–195, in The Desire of Ages.

“As soon as she had found the Saviour the Samaritan woman brought others to Him. She proved herself a more effective missionary than His own disciples. The disciples saw nothing in Samaria to indicate that it was an encouraging field. Their thoughts were fixed upon a great work to be done in the future. They did not see that right around them was a harvest to be gathered. But through the woman whom they despised, a whole cityful were brought to hear the Saviour. She carried the light at once to her countrymen.

“This woman represents the working of a practical faith in Christ. Every true disciple is born into the kingdom of God as a missionary. He who drinks of the living water becomes a fountain of life. The receiver becomes a giver. The grace of Christ in the soul is like a spring in the desert, welling up to refresh all, and making those who are ready to perish eager to drink of the water of life.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 195.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In class, go over your answers to Sunday’s final question. Be brutally honest about it. What are the taboos and prejudices found in your culture that could indeed hamper your own witness to ­others?`

`Why do you think Jesus got such a warm reception among the Samaritans in contrast to the reception among His own people?`

`Put yourself in the place of that Samaritan woman. A total stranger comes and lets her know that He is aware of her deepest secrets. How could anyone, much less a stranger, have known these things? No wonder she was impressed by Jesus. What should this story tell us about how the Lord knows everything about us, even the deepest, darkest secrets that we would not want anyone to know? And yet, what does the way He treated her say to us about how He wants to deal with us, even when He knows our secrets? What comfort can we draw from this truth?`

`What themes in the Gospel of John that we have studied thus far are found in Jesus’ ministry to the Samaritan woman at the well?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

My Life Today, “The Bible Begets New Life,” p. 24;\
Christ Triumphant, “Christ Will Create a New Heart in His Followers,” p. 233.