---
title:  The Runaway Messenger
date:  11/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Jonah 1; Jonah 2:1–9; Jonah 3:1–10; Jonah 4:1–11; Jude 1:21; Jeremiah 25:5.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘If you can get upset over a plant, surely [of course] I can feel sorry for a big city like [the same as] Nineveh. There are many people and animals in that city. There are more than 120,000 people there who did not know they were doing wrong’ ” (Jonah 4:11, ERV).

JONAH is one of the most interesting stories in the Bible. God chooses Jonah to do special work. But Jonah runs away from God. God helps Jonah change his mind and obey Him. The work of Jonah is a big success. But what happens next? Jonah gets mad at God for saving the Ninevites!

Jonah is an example of someone who is not at rest. He has no peace when he cries, “ ‘So now, LORD, just kill me. It is better for me to die than live’ ” (Jonah 4:3, ERV).

Jesus Himself talks about the story of Jonah: “ ‘On the judgment day [the Day when God judges everyone on earth], you people who live now will be compared with the people from Nineveh, and they will be witnesses who show how guilty you are. Why do I say this? Because when Jonah preached to those people, they changed their lives. And you are listening to someone greater [more excellent; better; more powerful] than Jonah, but you refuse to change!’ ” (Matthew 12:41, NLV). Jesus is greater than Jonah. If Jesus is not, He cannot be our Savior.

This week, we look at the story of Jonah. What can we learn about rest from this runaway messenger?