---
title:  Running Away 
date:  12/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jonah is a big success as a messenger. He warns the people of Nineveh to turn from their sins. They obey. But Jonah is not a willing messenger. At least, not at first. When God tells Jonah to go to Nineveh, Jonah gets upset. Jonah shows he does not trust God. That is why Jonah has no rest or peace. He does not do what Jesus tells us to do when we have troubles: “ ‘Accept my teaching. Learn from me. I am gentle [kind] and humble [not proud] in spirit. And you will be able to get some rest. Yes, the teaching that I ask you to accept is easy. The load I give you to carry is light [does not weigh much]’ ” (Matthew 11:30, ERV). Jonah decides to find his own “rest.” How? He runs away, far away, from where God wants him to go.

`Where does Jonah hope to find rest away from God? Does this plan work for Jonah? For the answers, read, Jonah 1.`

Jonah goes in a different direction. This direction is as different as can be from where God wants him to go. When other messengers from God were worried about what God asked them to do, they talked their worries over with God. (Read Exodus 4:13 for an example.) Jonah does not stop to pray about the problem. He runs.

This is not the first time God sends Jonah to give people a special message. 2 Kings 14:25 shows that Jonah does what the Lord asks him to do. But not this time. Why?

History shows us the answer. Assyrians controlled the Near East during the time Jonah worked in Israel. About 75 years earlier, King Sennacherib of Assyria attacked Judah. Assyria already beat Israel and Samaria 20 years earlier. Then King Hezekiah joined a group against Assyria.

Now Assyria wants revenge. The Bible (2 Kings 18 and Isaiah 36), history records, and picture carvings from the palace walls in Nineveh show us an awful story about the city of Lachish. Lachish was an important city in the kingdom of King Hezekiah. When Sennacherib beat Lachish, he killed hundreds of thousands of people by stabbing them on sticks. People who supported King Hezekiah had their skin pulled off their bodies while they were alive. Sennecharib made slaves of the rest of the people who lived.

`Now God sends Jonah to warn the Assyrians in Nineveh about their awful end. Is it any wonder Jonah does not want to go?`