---
title:  Resting For Three Days 
date:  13/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When we run away from God, we run into trouble. Jonah  gets on a ship to get away from God. Then Jonah falls asleep. But his “rest” is very short. God sends a storm to “wake” Jonah up. Jonah tells the sailors to throw him into the sea. But God sends a big fish to save Jonah.

Jonah is forced to rest in the belly of the fish for three days. During this time, Jonah sees how much he needs God. Sometimes God must bring us to a place in life where we have nothing left to depend on but God. Then we see Jesus is the One we really need.

`Read the prayer of Jonah in the belly of the fish (read Jonah 2:1–9). What does he pray about?`

For sure, Jonah is in deep trouble and danger. That is why he prays. His prayer is about the temple. He says, “ ‘But I continued looking to your holy Temple for help’ ” (Jonah 2:4, ERV). Why does Jonah say this?

The temple is the most important part of his prayer. The temple should be the most important part of our prayers too. God can be found in only one place in the Old Testament: in the Holy Tent of worship (read Exodus 15:17; Exodus 25:8). The Holy Tent is the center for communication and prayer with God.

But Jonah is not talking about the Old Testament Holy Tent. He also is not talking about the temple that King Solomon built. Jonah is talking about the temple in heaven. His hopes come from the temple in heaven. Why? Because the Savior and His mercy for sinners are there.

Jonah finally sees this important Bible truth. Jonah now understands grace. Grace is the gift from God of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. When the big fish spits Jonah out, Jonah understands about the love of God for him, a runaway messenger. Jonah learns that the only safe plan for someone is to obey God.

Now Jonah decides to go to Nineveh and do what God asks. For sure, Jonah needs a lot of faith on this trip. He goes to a city that is very, very evil. No doubt, the citizens of Nineveh will not like this stranger coming to their city to tell them just how bad they really are.

`How does being in the belly of the big fish help Jonah look at his problems in a new way? What can this teach us?`