---
title:  A Job Well Done 
date:  14/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Just how big is Nineveh? Compare Nineveh to any city in Israel. Then you will see that Nineveh is a big city. The Bible says, “It was a very large city. A person had to walk for three days to travel through it” (Jonah 3:3, ERV).

`Jonah preaches in Nineveh in Jonah 3:1–10. How do the people of this evil city answer? What can we learn from this story about sharing Bible truth with other people?`

The Bible tells us: “Jonah went to the center of the city and began speaking to the people. He said, ‘After 40 days, Nineveh will be destroyed!’ ” (Jonah 3:4, ERV). His message is powerful. Jonah gets right to the point. He does not waste any words. Soon, Jonah sees that the people accept his message. They all believe his warning.

Soon the king of the city makes an announcement. Kings in the Near East made announcements in Bible times to show that they and their people had changed hearts. The king orders everyone to stop eating any food or drinking any water for a short time. The animals join them too. The people show they are very sorry for their sins. The king steps down from his throne. He sits in the dirt. This act is an important word picture. When the king sits in the dirt, he shows his heart is empty of all pride.

`Read Jonah 3:6–9. Compare these verses with Jeremiah 25:5; Ezekiel 14:6; and Revelation 2:5. What parts of the speech of the king show that he understands what being sorry for sin is all about?`

The speech of the king shows that he fully understands Bible truth about being sorry for sin and turning away from it. While Jonah preaches, the Holy Spirit is hard at work in the hearts of the Ninevites.

The Ninevites do not know all the stories about the tender love of God and how He led Israel in the past. But the Ninevites answer God in a way that shows that they accept His message and trust Him fully. They show that they depend on the mercy of God to save them and not in their good behavior. The people depend fully on God and His favor.

`Why is turning from sin so important to our Christian experience? What does it mean to really turn from sin?`