---
title:  The Angry Servant Who Cannot Rest 
date:  15/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Jonah 4:1–11. As these verses show us, Jonah is far from perfect. What problem does Jonah have? What can we learn from his mistakes?`

Jonah 4 starts with Jonah being angry at God because God made his work a big success! Jonah told the people of Nineveh that God will destroy their city after 40 days. But the people turn from their sins. God accepts their change of heart. He shows them mercy. Now Jonah is afraid that he will look the same as a fool and a liar.

This story shows us that even loyal followers of God and His special messengers have some growing to do.

“Jonah learns that God will not destroy the city. Yes, the people are evil, but they accept the warning. They wear funeral clothes and put ashes on their head to show God they are sorry for their sins. Jonah should be the first person to show joy because of the mercy of God. But Jonah does not. He worries that people will think he is a false messenger. Jonah cares more about his honor than about saving people. He fails to see the value of all the people saved in that awful city.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 271, adapted.

God is patient with Jonah. God continues to want to work with Jonah during the whole story. When Jonah runs away, God sends the storm and the fish to bring his runaway messenger back. Now, when Jonah is angry, God tries to help Jonah see his feelings are wrong. God says, “ ‘Do you think it is right for you to be angry?’ ” (Jonah 4:4, NIrV).

`Read Luke 9:51–56. How does the story in these verses show us the same thing that happens in the book of Jonah?`

“ ‘God loved the world so very, very much that he gave his only Son. Because he did that, everyone who believes in him will not lose his life, but will live for ever’ ” (John 3:16, WE). The God who says this to Nicodemus is the same God who says to Jonah: “ ‘If you can get upset over a plant, surely [of course] I can feel sorry for a big city like [the same as] Nineveh. There are many people and animals in that city. There are more than 120,000 people there who did not know they were doing wrong’ ” (Jonah 4:11, ERV). In the end, we should feel grateful that God is the Judge of hearts and minds, not us.