---
title:  “safe In God’s Love” 
date:  16/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Nineveh is a city filled with danger. But in the story of Jonah, the Ninevites are not the real problem. Jonah is. Earlier in the story when Jonah runs away, God goes after Jonah. What causes God to do that? Love. God loves Jonah. God does not give up on the ones He loves. God knows Jonah needs the trip to Nineveh as much as the Ninevites need to hear Jonah. Now, let us look at the book of Jude to help us better understand this wonderful love that God has for us.

`Read the book of Jude. How can we “keep ourselves safe in God’s love” (Jude 1:21, ERV). What does that mean?`

Jude tells us to “keep ourselves safe in God’s love” (Jude 1:21, ERV). One way we keep ourselves safe in the love of God is to help other people and show them how much we care about them. In the next verses, Jude tells us, “Help those [people] who have doubts. Rescue [save] those [people] who are in danger of hell’s fire. There are others [persons] you should treat [be kind to] with mercy” (Jude 1:22, 23, ERV).

`Read Jude 1:20–23. What are these verses in Jude saying? How do these verses help us understand better the story of Jonah? What do these verses also teach us?`

God orders Jonah to go to Nineveh because Jonah needs to see the ugly feelings hidden inside his heart. We can guess that Jonah does not like the Ninevites very much. But Jonah has no idea how much he really hates them or what he will do to avoid them. Jonah is not ready to have a Ninevite as his next-door-neighbor in heaven. Jonah does not know how to love as God loves. God also sends Jonah to Nineveh because God loves the Ninevites. God wants the Ninevites to be saved and to join His kingdom. God sends Jonah to Nineveh because he loves Jonah, too. God wants Jonah to grow and to become changed by the love of God. God wants Jonah to find rest that comes from obeying God and helping other people to rest in Him, too.

`How much time do you spend working with God to save people? How does this work help us find real rest in Jesus?`