---
title:  Further Thought
date:  17/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“God trusts Jonah with a very important job. God also can give Jonah wonderful success in this work. God wants to bless Jonah very much. But Jonah does not obey God at first. So, Jonah has many painful experiences. When Jonah is feeling low, the Lord does not leave him. God uses some hard times and strange miracles to help Jonah learn again to trust in Him and His power to save. This saving power has no limits.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 266, adapted.

“We can reach thousands of people in the easiest way. One example of people we can reach in a simple way are people who are very smart. Many people respect these experts for their gifts and wisdom. These same wise people are often refreshed by the simple words from someone who loves God deeply.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 232, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How can a special messenger from God be upset when the people he warns accept the message he gives them? What do you think about the feelings of Jonah? How does the story about Jonah show us that God is very patient with His people, even when they behave in the wrong way?`

`The story about Jonah suggests to us that God is not only interested in saving runaways and sinners. God also is interested in changing the lives of His followers. How can we get a “new heart” and a “new spirit,” even if we already know the Lord and Bible truth for this time? How is knowing Bible truth different from being changed by the truth?`

`Read the book of Jude again. What is the message of this book? Why is this message important to us as a church today?`

`How does the experience of our working with Jesus to save other people help us grow spiritually?`

`Maybe Jonah thought he had many good reasons not to go to Nineveh. But God showed him how wrong he really was. What feeling do we have about other people that shows the same wrong feeling that Jonah had?`