---
title:  Twice Tricked
date:  21/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 25:21–34; Genesis 28:10–22; Genesis 29:1–30; Genesis 29:31–30:22.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Esau said, ‘His name is Jacob. That is the right [correct] name for him. He has tricked me twice. He took away my rights [the spiritual promises that belong to the son who is born first] as the firstborn son. And now he has taken away my blessing.’ Then Esau said, ‘Have you saved any blessing for me?” (Genesis 27:36, ERV).

WE NOW LOOK AT THE FAMILY HISTORY of Isaac and his sons, Esau and Jacob. The story does not have a very good beginning. Jacob makes many mistakes. We see his spiritual weaknesses when he fights with his brother over the special promises that belong to the son who is born first (Genesis 25:27–34). Later, the brothers fight over who will get the special blessing from their father (Genesis 27).

Jacob tricks his father. He steals the blessing from his older brother. So, Jacob must run away to save his life (Genesis 28:10–22). After that, Jacob will be tricked by other people, the same as he tricked his father and brother. We see this experience in his marriage. Jacob loves Rachel (Genesis 29). But Laban tricks Jacob on his wedding night and gives Jacob his older daughter Leah. So, Jacob will need to work 14 years to earn both his wives.

But God also blesses Jacob during that time with many children. God gives Jacob riches, too.

So, we see from this story, an important Bible truth. The people of God may often fail. But God will keep the promises of His agreement anyway.