---
title:  Jacob And Esau 
date:  22/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read about Jacob and Esau in Genesis 25:21–34. Compare the personality of Jacob with the personality of Esau. How are the brothers different from each other? What makes Jacob worthy of the blessing from Isaac?`

Before Jacob and Esau are born, we see there will be trouble between the two brothers. When they are inside the belly of their mother, the brothers fight. Their fighting shows us how the brothers will be very different from each other. Esau “became a skilled hunter, who loved to be out in the fields. But Jacob was a quiet man, who stayed at home” (Genesis 25:27, ERV). The word written as “quiet” is the same word used to show us the good behavior of Job, who is “honest” (Job 8:20, NIrV) and Noah, who is “good” (Genesis 6:9, ERV) and “without blame” (Genesis 6:9, NIrV).

The brothers became more and more different from each other later in their lives. We see just how different they become from each other in the story in Genesis 27:1–28:5. In the story, Esau comes home tired and hungry. Jacob cooks him lentils. For Esau, the food he eats right now (Genesis 25:31) is more important than any future blessing from God (compare with Hebrews 12:16, 17).

“God made promises to Abraham. Isaac and Rebekah held these promises dear to their hearts. Isaac and Rebekah taught their sons about these promises. The boys saw that the promises from God were very important. These special promises from God included more than riches. The promises also included a spiritual blessing. The son who gets this blessing will be the priest, or religious leader, for his family. This son will have many children. The Savior of the whole earth will come from this family line.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 177, adapted.

Esau does not care about this spiritual blessing. But Jacob wants this blessing so much. Later, his mother comes up with a plan (read Genesis 27) to trick his father into giving it to Jacob. Jacob even uses the name of “ ‘the LORD your God’ ” (Genesis 27:20, ERV) to trick Isaac. Yes, Jacob wants something that is good. But he should not lie to get it. Lying is never part of the plan of God for us.

`Jacob wants something good. But he uses lies and tricks to get it. How can we avoid this same trap? That is, why must we not do evil so that “good” may come?`