---
title:  Jacob And The Ladder 
date:  23/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Esau learns that Jacob stole the blessing from him. So, Esau sees that Jacob tricked him and took the blessing Isaac wanted to give him (Genesis 27:36). Now Esau wants to kill his brother (Genesis 27:42). Rebekah is worried and wants to stop this crime (Genesis 27:45). So, with the support of Isaac, Rebekah tells Jacob to run away to her family (Genesis 27:43). On his way there, Jacob meets God in a dream at a place that he names Bethel. Bethel means “the house of God.” There, Jacob makes an oath.

`Read about Jacob at Bethel in Genesis 28:10–22. Compare these verses with the story about the Tower of Babel in Genesis 11:1–9. How is Bethel different from Babel? What lesson does the experience of Jacob at Bethel teach us about our connection with God?`

In his dream, Jacob sees a wonderful ladder that is connected with God. The ladder “is standing on the earth” (Genesis 28:12). The word written as “standing” is the verb “natsav” in the Hebrew language. This same verb is also written in the next verse to show us “the LORD standing by the ladder” (Genesis 28:13, ERV). This verb shows us that the ladder and the LORD are the same thing.

The ladder helps us remember the builders at the Tower of Babel. They wanted to reach heaven. The ladder that Jacob sees also reaches “the door of heaven.” But the Tower and the ladder are different. The Tower of Babel shows the effort of humans to go up to heaven where God is. The ladder of Bethel shows us that we can come near God only if He comes to us. We cannot come to God by human effort.

Before Jacob dreams about the ladder, he puts his head on a stone and falls asleep. This “stone” becomes the word picture of “beth-El,” which means “the house of God” (Genesis 28:17; compare with Genesis 28:22), which shows us the temple, the house of God. This house is the center for the work on earth that God does to save humans.

Jacob is filled with a deep feeling of love and respect for God. So, he decides to give to God “one-tenth of all He gives me” (Genesis 28:22, ERV). This one-tenth is also named tithe, as we already saw. Jacob gives tithe to show God that he is thankful for the blessings that God already gave him. So, here again, we see the idea of tithe long before the Israelites were a people on the earth.