---
title:  Jacob Gets Tricked 
date:  24/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story about Jacob and Laban in Genesis 29:1–30. How and why does God allow Laban to trick Jacob? What lessons does Jacob learn?`

The first thing that Jacob sees when he arrives at the well is a stone. The stone helps us remember Bethel. The stone at Bethel is a word picture for how near God is to His people (Genesis 28:18, 19). The stone at the well will give Jacob a chance to talk to Rachel. Jacob learns from the shepherds that Rachel will come soon to give her sheep a drink. Jacob asks the shepherds to roll away the stone. The shepherds refuse. So, Jacob rolls the stone away. Then he introduces himself to Rachel (Genesis 29:11).

Jacob falls in love with Rachel at first sight. “Jacob loved Rachel” so much (Genesis 29:18, ERV). He promises to work for Laban for seven years if Laban will let him marry Rachel. Laban agrees. “So Jacob worked for seven years so he could marry Rachel. But they seemed like [the same as] only a few days to him because he loved her so much” (Genesis 29:20, ERV).

But at the end of these seven years, Jacob gets tricked. On the night of the wedding, Laban switches Rachel with Leah. The next day, Jacob wakes up next to the “wrong” bride. Then Jacob says to Laban, “ ‘You have tricked me’ ” (Genesis 29:25, ERV). “Tricked” is the same word that Isaac said to Jacob after Jacob fooled Isaac and Esau, his brother (Genesis 27:35).

So, we see from this story that the very thing that Jacob did to someone in the past is now done to him. We see this important Bible rule elsewhere in the writings of Moses: “An eye must be put out for an eye. A tooth must be knocked out for a tooth. A hand must be cut off for a hand and a foot for a foot” (Exodus 21:24; compare with Genesis 9:6). This Bible rules forces the person who does wrong to get the same punishment they gave to the one they hurt.

Jacob now understands how Esau and his father must have felt. Do you see how God teaches Jacob about his own lies by the lies and tricks of Laban? The question that Jacob asks, “ ‘Why did you trick me?’ ” (Genesis 29:25, ERV), shows that Jacob knows that lying is wrong.

`Why must we learn to trust God when people trick us and get away with doing evil?`