---
title:  The Blessing Of A Family 
date:  25/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

For Jacob, his final seven years of work for Laban are a heavy load. At the same time, God blesses Jacob, too. Jacob has 11 of the 12 sons who will become the fathers of Israel.

In Genesis 29:31–30:22, we read about the children that are born to Jacob. These verses start and end with these important words: God “made it possible.” First, God “made it possible” for Leah to have children (Genesis 29:31, ERV). Then God “made it possible” for Rachel to have a baby, too. What does this wording show us? It shows us that these babies are miracles. They are gifts from God.

`Read the story in Genesis 29:31–30:22. How are we, today, to understand what happens in this story?`

God gives Leah a baby boy. She names him Reuben. Why does Leah give him this name? The name “Reuben” comes from the Hebrew verb “ra’ah,” which means “to see.” So, God “saw” that Jacob did not love Leah (Genesis 29:31). Reuben was a gift from God. God gave Leah a son to comfort her.

Leah names her second son Simeon. Simeon comes from the verb “shama,’ ” which means “heard.” God “heard” the deep pain and shame that Leah felt. So, God pitied her, just as He felt sorry for Hagar (Genesis 29:33).

The name “Simeon” is connected to the name of Ishmael, the son of Hagar. Ishmael means “God will hear” (read Genesis 16:11). When Leah has her last son, she names him Judah, which means “praise.” This name shows us that God has healed Leah so much. Leah does not talk about her pain anymore. She just praises God for His miracles and mercy.

Then God “remembers” Rachel and makes it possible for her to have a child (Genesis 30:22). But first, Rachel must wait seven years after her marriage and 14 years after she gets engaged to Jacob (Genesis 29:18, 27; compare with Genesis 30:25). Rachel names her son “Joseph” to show that

“ ‘God has taken away my shame’ ” Rachel named the son Joseph, saying, ‘May the Lord give me another son’ ” (Genesis 30:23, 24, ERV).

`For sure, we get in the way of the plan of God for our lives. We do not always follow His plan. We make mistakes, too. How does the story about Rachel and Leah show us that the plan of God will happen in heaven and on earth anyway?`