---
title:  Jacob Leaves 
date:  26/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jacob serves Laban for many years. Jacob is a loyal worker. He works hard for his uncle. Jacob does not try to get even with his uncle for tricking him on his wedding night. Laban is not very fair. But Jacob does not complain. He does everything that Laban asks him to do.

When Rachel has her first son, things change. Jacob has worked for his uncle for 14 years (Genesis 30:26). Now Jacob thinks about going home to the Promised Land. But Jacob is worried. Will he have enough money and goods to take care of the needs of his own family (Genesis 30:30)?

`Read the story in Genesis 30:25–32. What happens in this story? What reasons does Jacob give to Laban? How does Laban answer?`

It has been a very long journey for Jacob since he left home. No doubt, he never expected to be gone for so long. But things happened that kept him away from home for many long years. Now it is time to go back and take his family with him.

Why does Jacob wait so long to go home? Why does Jacob not leave Laban sooner? The answer is that Jacob has changed. We see how patient he is during the long years he works for his uncle. Yes, Jacob is a different man. He understands now that he must wait for God. He must have faith. He waits for God to tell him it is time to go. Jacob leaves only when God finally tells Jacob to leave.

God shows Himself to Jacob as “ ‘the God of Bethel’ ” (Genesis 31:13, NIrV). Then God commands Jacob to leave Laban and go back to “your family” (Genesis 31:13, NKJV). These words help us remember the words God used to command Abram to go away “from your family” (Genesis 12:1, NKJV).

Another thing that helped Jacob see that it was time to go home was the behavior of Laban and his sons (read Genesis 31:1, 2). “Jacob wanted to leave Laban long before this time. But Jacob was afraid of meeting Esau. Now Jacob felt he was in danger from the sons of Laban. They were jealous of the riches of Jacob. Jacob fears they may try to hurt him and steal his riches.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 193, adapted.

So, Jacob took his family and all his belongings and left. He starts on a journey that is the beginning of a new chapter in the plan of the chosen people of God.