---
title:  Further Thought
date:  27/05/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God chose Jacob. Jacob did not do anything to earn the favor of God. God chose Jacob because of His loving favor and His mercy. When Jacob tried to earn this favor, he failed. He had no success. He ended up cheating his brother and lying to his father. The same is true for us. We never can earn the favor of God. If we can earn mercy, then we are saved by our works (read Romans 4:1–5). The Good News is all about how God saves us by His mercy. When Jacob learned how to live by faith, his life changed. Jacob learned to trust and depend completely on God. The experience of Jacob teaches us an important lesson: do not try to get success by tricking other people.

“Jacob tries to lie to get the special blessing. But his behavior only caused him to suffer loss. Jacob feels that he lost everything. He thinks he lost his connection with God and his home. He is a runaway with no hope. But what does God do? God looks on Jacob, who feels so hopeless. God sees that Jacob is very disappointed. But God also sees all that Jacob can be and how he will give glory to God. As soon as God sees this hopeless runaway, God shows Jacob the mysterious ladder. This ladder shows us Jesus Christ. Jacob is a word picture for humans who have lost all connection with God. Sin has separated man from God. But the God of heaven looks on man and gives Jesus the permission to save man. Maybe if we were there at Bethel, we may say, ‘I wish to touch heaven, but how can I touch it? I see no way.’ For sure, that is what Jacob thinks. So, God shows Jacob the dream of the ladder. The ladder connects earth with heaven, with Jesus. A man can climb this ladder because the bottom of the ladder rests on the earth. The top of the ladder goes into heaven.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 1, page 1095, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Look at the lives of these men and women in the Bible: Isaac, Rebekah, Jacob, Esau, Laban, Rachel, and Leah. Look at all the lies they told! What do their mistakes teach us about humans? What do they teach us about the mercy and forgiveness of God?`

`What hints can you find in the story of Jacob that he grows and changes in his faith?`

`What are some of the ways that we, as Seventh-day Adventists, are in danger of having the same uncaring feeling that Esau had about his special blessing? How can we make sure we never stop loving God for all the Bible truth that He gives us?`