---
title:  Law Versus Grace
date:   06/08/2017
---

**Logos**: Deut. 6:24; Lev. 18:5; Matt. 5:17; 1 Cor. 9:21; Gal. 3:11

**The Law Is Established** (Deut. 6:24; Lev. 18:5)

The law God expected the Israelites to live by is first introduced after they are delivered from the Egyptians. In the book of Exodus, we not only read about the precise moment the law is delivered to Moses right from the mouth of God but also about the tumultuous relationship between the people of Israel and the law of God. The Old Testament repeatedly portrays the law as something that must be followed; in other words, it is something that God has commanded the Israelites to live by. Whether they want to live by it or not, it is not something left to each Israelite’s own discretion. “The Lord commanded us to obey all these decrees and to fear the Lord our God, so that we might always prosper and be kept alive, as is the case today” (Deut. 6:24, NIV). Therefore, we see that the law’s original purpose is to provide the Israelites with guidelines that they must follow and that, if kept, will lead to a fulfilling life in Christ. As time goes by, the view God’s people hold on the law starts to become muddled. Many become increasingly focused on following the law and believe that by doing so they will achieve salvation. We are able to see the results of this mind-set later on during New Testament times. Excessive importance placed on following the law channels into the stories of Pharisees and legalism that we read about during Jesus’ time on Earth.

**When God dies at the cross, the ultimate sacrifice takes place.**

**Saved by Grace** (Gal. 3:11)

When Jesus embarks on His mission to preach the gospel message, He is aware of the way many of the Israelites understand the law. Throughout His lifetime and up until His death, Jesus works to spread the gospel message and teach Jews and Gentiles alike that the only way to be saved is through Him. Likewise, it is only after we accept Jesus as our Savior and acknowledge that He died on the cross to atone for our sins that we can receive salvation. In other words, it is only through our faith in Jesus Christ, and the acceptance of His grace, that we are saved. It is worth noting that nowhere in Scripture is keeping the law mentioned as a way to achieve salvation. In fact, God makes it clear that if we have the law, and yet we don’t have faith, we are not going down the right path. “Clearly no one who relies on the law is justified before God, because ‘the righteous will live by faith’ ” (Gal. 3:11, NIV). When God dies at the cross, the ultimate sacrifice takes place. It is only after this that the Israelites begin to understand what they have been doing wrong. The Israelites’ misplaced focus on keeping the law for forgiveness can now slowly begin to shift to the acceptance of God’s grace for the forgiveness of their sins. God has made it clear to them that grace is the only way to go.

**Following the Law** (Matt. 5:17)

Unfortunately, many people erroneously believe that Jesus’ death on the cross abolished the law. If we are not careful, we run into the danger of believing that because we are “saved by grace,” the law does not apply to our lives anymore or that the law was “nailed to the cross.” The reality is that despite it not being the road to salvation, living by the law is still very important. Scripture makes it clear that Jesus’ death did not abolish the law but, rather, fulfilled its purpose. “ ‘Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them’ ” (Matt. 5:17, NIV). Jesus’ death on the cross was meant to show the Israelites that they were saved through Him and not by their imperfect attempts to follow the law. Jesus’ death, however, did not invalidate or annul the law. The law remains something that we must follow as a way of expressing our love for God. In writing to the Corinthians, Paul describes the relationship between the law and himself, in a way reflecting how other believers should live. “To those under the law I became like one under the law (though I myself am not under the law), so as to win those under the law. To those not having the law I became like one not having the law (though I am not free from God’s law but am under Christ’s law), so as to win those not having the law” (1 Cor. 9:20, 21, NIV). When Paul says that he is not under the law, he means to say that the law does not bind him. He does not have to follow the law in order to attain salvation. He knows that only grace can do that. When Paul says that he is not free from the law but under Christ’s law, he means to say that although the law cannot save him, he is not exempt from it. He must live his life according to the law. Not because it will bring him salvation but because the law is the standard God expects him to live by. Unsurprisingly, this still rings true today.

**React**

`1. What do you think caused the following of the law to begin to be viewed as the way to salvation?`

`2. Why do you think there has been such an excessive focus on following the law throughout the entire history of Christianity?`

_Juan Alejandro Olarte-Cortes, Panama City, Panama_