---
title:  From the Writing to the Living
date:   07/08/2017
---

**Testimony**: Exod. 20:2–17; John 1:14; Gal. 3:24

After the Fall, the image of God was erased from humanity, and Satan portrayed God to be a mean, unmerciful judge. But God did not leave us without the knowledge of His true character; He gave us the Ten Commandments. “Ten precepts, brief, comprehensive, and authoritative, cover the duty of man to God and to his fellow man; and all based upon the great fundamental principle of love. . . . In the Ten Commandments these principles are carried out in detail, and made applicable to the condition and circumstances of man.”1

**“Only by love is love awakened.”**

“From a race of slaves the Israelites had been exalted above all peoples to be the peculiar treasure of the King of kings.God had separated them from the world, that He might commit to them a sacred trust. He had made them the depositaries of His law, and He purposed, through them, to preserve among men the knowledge of Himself.Thus the light of heaven was to shine out to a world enshrouded in darkness, and a voice was to be heard appealing to all peoples to turn from their idolatry to serve the living God.If the Israelites would be true to their trust, they would become a power in the world.”2

But then, in the fullness of time, the Word became flesh. “The earth was dark through misapprehension of God. That the gloomy shadows might be lightened, that the world might be brought back to God, Satan’s deceptive power was to be broken.This could not be done by force.The exercise of force is contrary to the principles of God’s government; He desires only the service of love; and love cannot be commanded; it cannot be won by force or authority. Only by love is love awakened.To know God is to love Him;His character must be manifested in contrast to the character of Satan.This work only one Being in all the universe could do.Only He who knew the height and depth of the love of God could make it known.Upon the world’s dark night the Sun of Righteousness must rise, ‘with healing in His wings.’ ”3

**React**

`1. Today we as Christians are entrusted with the living expression of God’s character. How can we portray this to a dying world?`

`2. In what way did the Jews of old fail to portray God’s character to the world? How are we as Christians failing today to do the same?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 305.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 314.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 22.</sup>

_Israel Gamas, Panama City, Panama_