---
title:  Am I a Slave?
date:   08/08/2017
---

**Evidence**: Rom. 6:14, 15; Romans 7; Gal. 3:23, 24

“The English word slave comes from the Old French sclave, from the Medieval Latin sclavus,from the Byzantine Greek , which, in turn, comes from the ethnonym Slav.”1

Many cultures in history have gone through periods of slavery. One example is the Hebrew nation, whose story we know from the Bible. Another is the history of slavery in America, which became legal in 1641. However, in “September 1862, Lincoln issued a preliminary emancipation proclamation, and on January 1, 1863, he made it official that ‘slaves within any State, or designated part of a State . . . in rebellion, . . . shall be then, thenceforward, and forever free.’ ”2

**The bottom line is that living without God makes us slaves to this world, sin, and Satan.**

Satan uses various methods to enslave us. From the beginning, he deceived the third part of the angels. He did the same with Adam and Eve, thus making us his slaves. His deceiving methods have changed over time, but his goal remains the same.

Have you noticed how today we have so many “time-saving inventions,” yet we don’t have time for anything? We’ve become modern slaves. The enemy has convinced us that God’s law is boring. Instead he offers us the illusion of freedom and the idea that we can do whatever we want.However, we become slaves to our jobs, forced to comply with their standards just to get a few dollars and buy stuff we think will make us happy.The list could go on, but the bottom line is that living without God makes us slaves to this world, sin, and Satan.

God’s law, on the other hand, offers us freedom.When we take a closer look at the Ten Commandments, we see they exist for us to have a better life, not to stop us from enjoying it.

It’s like when your parents tell you not to touch the iron. They are just preventing you from getting burned.Similarly God gave us free will.Everything we do has a consequence, and because He is our Father, He is trying to prevent us from getting burned.

**React**

`What are you bound to? What do you need to do to let go?`

<sup>1. “Slavery Explained,” Everything Explained Today, accessed May 13, 2016, http://everything.explained.today/Slavery/.</sup>

<sup>2. “Slavery in America,” History.com, accessed May 13, 2016, http://www.history.com/topics/black-history/slavery.</sup>

_Tiffany Gamas, Panama City, Panama_