---
title:  A Compass to the Road
date:   09/08/2017
---

**How-to**: 1 John 3:4

The Word of God teaches us that it is almost impossible to keep our faith in God while living a sinful life. In essence, sin affects our relationship with God. Without this relationship, we will lose sight of His promises; our faith will slowly lose strength; and, sooner or later, we will find ourselves on the side of the road.

**The compass, or the law, is the tool God provides to guide us.**

First John 3:4 gives us a brief snapshot of what sin is: “Everyone who sins breaks the law; in fact, sin is lawlessness” (NIV). Hence, the law is nothing more than our compass on the road of faith. As long as we keep the law, we will avoid sin and be closer to God.

Have you ever used a compass? Merriam-Webster tells us that a compass is “a device that is used to find direction by means of a needle that always points north.”* The compass, or the law, is the tool God provides to guide us. It shows the correct path we should walk and is always pointing to God, despite all the deceptive weapons of Satan around us.Once we have the compass, we need to use it properly. In order to take the best advantage of it, here are three points that can help us:

_1. Hold your compass close to you._ When things in life get hard and dark, and you can´t see the way, the law will lighten your path, but only if you have internalized it in your heart and life. It can’t give you direction if you don’t hold it close to you.

_2. Get to know your compass._ The law is the character of God. It shows us who God is and how His government is established.As you get to know God better, you will find the law in Him and Him in the law.

_3. Follow your compass_. Now that you know what tool God places in your hands—His character, God Himself—you can trust that it will lead you to your heavenly goal victoriously. Follow it, and don’t allow the deceptions of this world to obscure your path and make you lose the blessing of eternal life in the heavenly kingdom.

**React**

`1. It’s not a surprise that so many people today look at the law of God as something outdated. What practical ways can you find to show the world the value the law still holds in our times?`

`2. Why is it so crucial to avoid thinking that since we have already accepted Jesus as our Savior, we don’t need to follow the law any longer?`

<sup>* Merriam-Webster Online, s.v. “compass,” accessed May 13, 2016, http://www.merriam -webster.com/dictionary/compass.</sup>

_Zukeidys Palacio De Dier, Panama City, Panama_
