---
title:  'The Law: A Two-Sided Mirror'
date:   10/08/2017
---

**Opinion**: Gal. 3:23, 24

The word gospel—in its original Greek translation—means “good news,” which is exactly what the gospel is about—the good news of Jesus’ sacrifice for humanity. However, as we think about the good news, why don’t we also consider the law of God? Is the law bad news?

The law was created to show human beings their condition and to reveal the divine character of God. It works as a two-sided mirror. On one side, it shows us all the sin, evil, and filthiness—it reveals our sinful state, which we evidently can’t hide. On the opposite side, we find a magnifying mirror that presents Jesus, His loving sacrifice, and the happy news of redemption that we desperately need. In his book Conquering the Dragon Within, author Marvin Moore states that Jesus died to save us from sin and that the law defines sin. Hence, we cannot talk about salvation without accepting the law and demonstrating our allegiance to it, for if we do, we would be referring to a false faith.If we know the law and are aware of the gospel it represents, we must have an attitude of obedience and submission to God’s will for our lives.

**Only in Jesus—who died for us—can we be called just and righteous, because we have transitioned from eternal damnation to eternal life.**

We are invited to keep the law, not because it will return dividends to God but so that we can have the opportunity and the benefit of joyful lives (Lev.18:4; Deut.6:24).As the children of Israel were instructed to keep the law, so are we.

The law helps us identify the correct path in our lives that brings us closer to Christ.As we become intimate with Him, we learn to believe, trust, and love Him, which in return makes us completely happy. Only in Jesus—who died for us—can we be called just and righteous, because we have transitioned from eternal damnation to eternal life.

Today God calls us to remain under the law, because once in it, it becomes like a fenced compound for us. Within the fence, we can be liberated from sin, but outside its walls we are exposed to death. Being under the law brings us closer to Jesus, protects us through His sacrifice (1 Thess. 4:1), gives us peace (Ps. 119:165), and makes us happy.

**React**

`1. Think about and share creative ways to live under the law, in a world that pretty much considers it obsolete.`

`2. What are silly ways you break the law in your life? How can you avoid committing those mistakes again?`

_Maria De Gracia, Panama City, Panama_