---
title:  Living Your Best Life Ever
date:   11/08/2017
---

**Exploration**: Ps. 19:7

**Conclude**

If you could live your best year ever, what would it look like? Now imagine living your best life ever, each and every day indefinitely.This is what Jesus came and offered to humanity—a full life that is fueled by faith. Armed with the Holy Spirit as our guide, the Bible as our lesson book, the Ten Commandments as our standard, and Jesus as our High Priest—we can overcome any obstacle and be of full service to humanity. Though we may fall occasionally, God knows how to re-create us again and again. No matter your story, your walk of faith will shine in the darkest places and inspire.

**Consider**

- Analyzing the laws of your favorite countries and comparing them to the Ten Commandments. What similarities do you identify?
- Listening to the song “By Faith” from the album Awaken the Dawn, by Keith and Kristyn Getty, where we are encouraged to stand as children of the promise who walk by faith and not by sight.
- Writing a poem or report on how important the law is to your Christian walk. Could you live righteously without it?
- Surprising your friends with yummy cookies made with ingredients that are not typically tasty (zucchini, etc.) or that are vegan to show how walking by faith has its ups and downs, but all in all it is super sweet.
- Meditating on your walk of faith and writing a prayer outlining what you enjoy and areas you would like God to improve.

**Connect**

- James 1:25; Romans 1:17; 3:31.
- Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chapter 72, “ ‘In Remembrance of Me.’ ”
- Ty Gibson, See With New Eyes (Pacific Press®, 2000).
- Alonzo T. Jones and Ellet J. Waggoner, Lessons on Faith.

_Elaine Thompson, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_