---
title:  The Marks of a Steward
date:   03/02/2018
---

**Introduction**: John 15:7

**God Blessed a Faithful Steward From an Unlikely Source**

Patricia had been a faithful steward of her gifts of time, treasury, temple, and talents. She had even committed to more than her tithes and offerings. Now, it was time to return to Andrews University to continue working on her master’s degree in business. The problem was that she did not have enough money to register; but she believed God would provide the needed funds.

**“How much do you need?”**

As the deadline to register drew near, funds were still short and there was no indication as to what the source would be. When her mother asked, “How are you going to return to school with no money?” Patricia confidently responded, “God is going to provide the money.”

Patricia continued to pray for God to provide the money. She had a calm, confident trust that He really would provide the funds, from whatever source He chose. Patricia remembered how Dr. E. E. Rogers had amazingly brought our text, John 15:7, home to the minds of the students at one of Oakwood University’s chapel sessions. He said that in the original language, God is challenging us, declaring that “if you abide in me and my word abide in you, I dare you to ask anything of me and see if I won’t do it!” Patricia never forgot it.

One day she got a call she would never forget. It was Sister Boyd, a member of her church. She was an intimidating woman, in that she rarely smiled and was always serious. She reminded Patricia of Sister White in appearance and the way she wore her hair. Nevertheless, she was faithful to God and obedient to His leading.

The call went like this. “Hello, this is Sister Boyd. God told me you needed money for school. How much do you need?” Patricia, in disbelief, and fearing she would ask for too much, gave a number that was less than what she needed. Sister Boyd responded with “It will be in the mail tomorrow. Good-bye.” Sister Boyd sent well over USD 1,000! Although Patricia wavered, God blessed her for her faith in Him and His Word and being a faithful steward.

Patricia never would have imagined her answer to prayer coming from Sister Boyd, of all people. However, God’s blessings often come from unlikely sources and from those you would never imagine could even have the means or the gifts to be a blessing to you. Obviously, Sister Boyd had been a faithful steward of God’s money. Now He used her faithfulness to bless another.

Never underestimate God! When you have a faithful and obedient relationship with Him and are determined to be a good steward in the use of all the gifts He has given you, you can ask Him anything and He will do it.

_Patience Barnes, Mt. Pleasant, Pennsylvania, USA_