---
title:  Whose Steward Are You?
date:   04/02/2018
---

**Evidence**: 1 Cor. 4:1, 2

Dictionary.com defines a steward as “a person who manages another’s property.”* When applied to things, the concept is easy. Most people, if entrusted with a company’s trade secrets, would protect them, either out of loyalty or to keep their jobs. Yet, what about spiritual stewardship? God has asked us to be stewards over some very precious cargo—ourselves—and the reward for doing so outweighs anything this world has to offer.

**God has asked us to be stewards over some very precious cargo—ourselves.**

“Let a man so consider us, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God” (1 Cor. 4:1, NKJV). “The mystery which has been hidden from ages and from generations, but now has been revealed to His saints, . . . which is Christ in you, the hope of glory” (Col. 1:26, NKJV). In other words, because of Christ, we are costly cargo requiring good stewardship, which means managing every aspect of our lives by being faithful (1 Tim. 6:12), loyal (Matt. 6:24), obedient (1 John 5:2, 3), and trustworthy (Luke 16:10–12).

Yet, do we truly guard the mind, body, and soul like a good steward? For example, how many of us apply the principles of stewardship to our physical body? If we did, it would include eating a well-balanced diet, exercising regularly, and getting proper rest. So why do we overeat, become couch potatoes, and continually deprive ourselves of sleep? Maybe it’s because we see ourselves as Satan sees us—as insignificant, disposable trash. When we abuse our bodies with drugs and alcohol, spend more time with technology than people, or work long hours to amass more things, we’re actually stewards for Satan, not God.

Christian stewards must guard against Satan’s infiltration, even in the smallest of matters. Consider our personal relationships. They should be portals of bringing people to Christ, but instead we use them for selfish purposes. Satan uses every tactic to convince us that we’re unworthy of good stewardship (Rev. 12:10), but God reminds us that we are precious in His sight; we have been honored, and He loves us (Isa. 43:4). This is why He commands us to be good stewards.

**React**

`Reflecting on this week, for whom were you a steward—God or Satan?`

<sup>* Dictionary.com, s.v. “steward,” accessed October 17, 2016, http://www.dictionary.com/browse/steward.</sup>

_Sheryl Brown-Norman, Rockville, Maryland, USA_