---
title:  Praise in Motion
date:   05/02/2018
---

**Logos**: Pet. 2:9; Heb. 13:15

**God’s Generosity in Tithe and Offerings** (Mal. 3:10)

Most of us, when we hear the word stewardship, think money first. Our minds go straight to tithe and offerings. We figure out how much is required of us to return, as well as how much we can “cheerfully” sacrifice, because after all, “God loves a cheerful giver” (2 Cor. 9:7, NKJV). All that you have and all that you are has been freely, lovingly, and even cheerfully given to you—things above what you can ask for or even think of (see Eph. 3:20). Therefore, the small amount of 10 percent should never be an issue, remembering the abundant generosity of the Source, the King of all kings and Lord of all lords. In fact, that’s peanuts compared to what God has in store for you. In God’s Word, He challenges us when He says, “Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it” (Mal. 3:10). Scripture tells us that the tithe is “holy to the Lord” and symbolizes His ownership of everything (Lev. 27:30, 32, NKJV). Yet, He freely gives to us, requires just a little bit back, and then pours out even more. That’s a good deal!

**Steward and Stewardship** (1 Cor. 6:19, 20)

Stewardship is the conducting, supervising, or managing of something. God, the Creator of all things, has given us all resources, and thus the privilege of being stewards in this world. There are several types of resources with which He has entrusted us. One is our bodies. “What? know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own? For ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God’s” (1 Cor. 6:19, 20). How seriously do we take that? Do we heed His instructions on what to put into our bodies and minds so that we can look our best, feel our best, and do our best, allowing our example to honor God?

**A Cheerful Giver** (2 Cor. 9:7)

God has also given us gifts and talents over which we are to be stewards. He knows us so well that He will give us talents that will satisfy and fulfill our souls and make us happy to share. We are responsible for cultivating and using them liberally to benefit His work. Teachers, caregivers, those who love to cook and bake, doctors, musicians, and even those who can share a smile to brighten up someone’s day can use these gifts to advance His kingdom. God is so thorough in His giving that we can be “cheerful givers” of our unique gifts to others.

**Every Good and Perfect Gift** (James 1: 17)

God has ordained us since the beginning of time to care for the animal kingdom, as well as the earth. He said, “Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth” (Gen. 1:28). He gives us the power to accomplish this but wants us to remember that it is He who provides it. “Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from down from the Father of lights” (James 1:17). Yes, it is our job to do the best we can to help preserve the earth in different ways, including recycling and picking up litter. You don’t have to be an animal lover to care for one in need. God will reveal to you active ways to share. Do it! Feed and clothe those in need. Use the means God gives you to help someone else, and you will surely find that you can’t beat God’s giving. Get up! “Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over” (Luke 6:38)!

**Time** (Mark 13:33)

How much time do we waste—playing video games, watching television, thumbing through social media, withering away on things that don’t matter? Did you know that you will be held accountable for the time you’ve squandered? Make no mistake about it, Satan knows and has in place every distraction he can conjure up to trip you up, throwing a monkey wrench into your progression. “Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things” (Phil. 4:8).

God gives us opportunities every day to be about His business (see Luke 2:49). From cleaning your home to giving Bible studies, there are ways especially suited for you to glorify your heavenly Father. Looked upon correctly—without grimacing or grudging but with a humble, willing, and cheerful spirit—the task God assigns us He will equip us to do. When we trust and obey Him, we can trust that He “that hath begun a good work in [us] will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ” (Phil. 1:6). Then, every action mentioned here is divinely viewed as holy praise in motion, just like the glorious flutter of angels’ wings, just like the beauty of flowers is seen, just like the birds sing their melodies, just like the splendor of a mighty waterfall’s ring. All of God’s creation declares His Majesty by praise to our King!

_T. Michelle Beard, Hazel Green, Alabama, USA_