---
title:  Investing Heaven’s Currency in Earth’s Economy
date:   06/02/2018
---

**Testimony**: Matt. 25:14–30

“The Lord has given men His goods upon which to trade. He has made them His stewards, and has placed in their possession money, houses, and lands. All these are to be regarded as the Lord’s goods and used to advance His work, to build up His kingdom in the world. In trading with the Lord’s goods, we are to seek Him for wisdom, that we may not use His sacred trust to glorify ourselves or to indulge selfish impulses.”1

“Do all church members realize that all they have is given them to be used and improved to God’s glory? God keeps a faithful account with every human being in our world. And when the day of reckoning comes, the faithful steward takes no credit to himself. He does not say, ‘My pound;’ but, ‘Thy pound hath gained’ other pounds. He knows that without the entrusted gift no increase could have been made. He feels that in faithfully discharging his stewardship he has but done his duty. The capital was the Lord’s.”2

“I hope eff orts will be made in every church to arouse those who are doing nothing. May God make these realize that He will require of them the one talent with improvement; and if they neglect to gain other talents besides the one, they will meet with the loss of that one talent and their own souls also. We hope to see a change in our churches. The Householder is preparing to return and call His stewards to account for the talents He has entrusted to them. God pity the do-nothings then! Those who hear the welcome plaudit, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant,’ will have well done in the improvement of their abilities and means to the glory of God.”3

**React**

`1. How is leisure spending to be understood in light of the quote’s suggestion that “all they have” is “to be used and improved” for God’s glory?`

`2. How do you think God looks upon those who faithfully use and improve their talents, without regard for their brothers and sisters neglecting their own? Is financial stewardship the extent to which He expects us to invest in the longevity and relevance of our church?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, p. 245.</sup>
<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, p. 111.</sup>
<sup>3. Ibid., p. 120.</sup>

_Kaneil Williams, Takoma Park, Maryland, USA_