---
title:  His Apprentice
date:   07/02/2018
---

**How-to**: 2 Cor. 5:20

On a particular reality television show, contestants are given the opportunity to prove they have what it takes to become the apprentice of a powerful business person. At the end of particular tasks, the team members are called into the boardroom to determine which team did the best job completing the tasks given. The winning project manager and team receive a reward, and eventually, the grand prize.

In the business world, the idea of becoming the apprentice of a successful mogul is considered the chance of a lifetime. When considering the spiritual world, what does it look like to be God’s apprentice? How should an apprentice or steward manage the abundant resources given by God?

Here are a few management tips that will aid you in becoming a faithful and trustworthy steward:

Stewards manage their thoughts. Unlike those who do not understand their important and divine task, God’s apprentice understands that representing God and God’s business begins with a renewed mind. As it says in Romans 12:2, His stewards are not conformed to the pattern of this world but are transformed by the renewing of their minds, and are therefore able to test and approve what pleases God.

Stewards manage their time. God’s apprentice knows that time is a gift given for the good of others and the glory of God. They make the best use of their time because the days are evil and certainly do not waste time on petty matters (see Eph. 5:15–17). They consider time spent in prayer, Bible study, and helping and loving others to be time well spent.

Stewards manage their talents. Everyone has been given gifts by God. These gifts are talents and abilities unique to the individual. Whether it is public speaking, singing, writing, cooking, playing sports or an instrument, drawing, or anything else, God expects the gifts He has placed in His stewards to be used. God promises that “whoever has will be given more, and they will have an abundance” (Matt. 25:29, NIV).

**React**

`1. In what ways are you properly managing your thoughts, time, and talents?`

`2. Why is it so important to see yourself as God’s apprentice?`

_Sabrina Etienne, Takoma Park, Maryland, USA_