---
title:  Self-Management
date:   08/02/2018
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 3:23; 1 Cor. 6:17

Stewardship is related to managing many aspects of our lives, such as how we make use of our belongings, how we carry ourselves, what we say, and how we think. Stewardship is related to our management of God’s possessions for His glory, which include us. Aren’t we God’s possessions? How are we managing our attitudes toward others? How do we treat others? Our attitudes reveal our “Christian steward’s brand” because how we treat others should reflect Christ’s love and the kind of relationship we have with Him.

Stewardship is related to our management of God’s possessions for His glory, which include us.

Over the years, I have marveled at the treatment of people who come into our church, members and visitors alike. All who enter into God’s house should, at all times, experience the love of Christ; but for some reason, some members of our church feel the need to point out, gossip about, and turn their noses up at the flaws of everyone else. Some gather into cliques—leaving others feeling unwelcomed, unloved, and out of place—which in tur n chases potential souls for Christ away. The church is a place where sin-sick souls should always feel welcomed and able to come and lay their problems and issues at the feet of Jesus, without criticism from others.

We are supposed to show love to people who feel they have no hope and teach them that their hope is in God. We are to show them how to live by example. If people cannot feel comfortable coming to a place where “all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God” (Rom. 3:23, NIV), where else can they go? If we all come humbly to the throne of God, making it our business to reach out in love to our brothers and sisters in Christ, embracing and encouraging each other, we will be better stewards over ourselves and how we deal with others. This will help create an atmosphere in which members and visitors alike will feel comfortable attending. Since Christ is the only one through whom we can be saved, judging should have no place in God’s house. If we were better stewards over ourselves, people would see Christ living in us daily.

**React**

`1. Why is it important that we are careful to show love and understanding to those who come into our church?`

`2. What is a Christian steward’s brand?`

_Larie S. Gray, College Park, Maryland, USA_