---
title:  Whose Brand Are You Wearing?
date:   09/02/2018
---

**Exploration**: 1 Pet. 2:9; Matt. 6:24

**Conclude**

Fans are everywhere singing the praises of sports teams, politicians, celebrities, diets, merchandise, activities, ideas . . . the list is endless. Fans enjoy sharing their enthusiasm for whatever “they’re about.” They wear clothing, use specific words in their conversations, decorate their dorm rooms, houses, cars, and anything else to communicate their loyalties. Likewise, Christian stewards wear a specific “uniform” or “brand” that tells the world who they are all about. Every aspect of the Christian’s life communicates their level of faithfulness and loyalty to Jesus Christ. Fans of Jesus must dedicate themselves to singing His praises and retaining their loyalty to Him.

**Consider**

- Keeping a notebook of your conversations over a day or two. Analyze your communications in light of what they tell others about Jesus.
- Adding some decorations to your room, car, home, or work space that share a Christian message.
- Wearing a Christ-centered T-shirt or other item of clothing.
- Posting an encouraging Bible verse, drawing, or picture on social media or a public bulletin board.
- Taking a count of how many positive references to God or Christianity you encounter, either visually or audibly, in a day
- Praying for opportunities to share how enthusiastic you are about Jesus.
- Picking up trash along the road or in a park. Tell no one.

**Connect**

1. Matthew 25:14–30; Genesis 39.

<sup>Robert J. Morgan, The Red Sea Rules: 10 God-Given Strategies for Difficult Times, “Red Sea Rule #2: Be more concerned for God’s glory than for your relief.”</sup>

_Lisa Poole, Elbert, Colorado, USA_