---
title:  Mercy and Justice
date:  20/08/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 25**

**Mercy and Justice**

Christ’s statement in Matthew 26:11, “For you have the poor with you always,” is descriptive of the state of the world until He comes to destroy sin. Not only is it a reality we must accept, but it is one that God uses to mold our Christian characters. As Ellen White puts it, “In the providence of God events have been so ordered that the poor are always with us, in order that there may be a constant exercise in the human heart of the attributes of mercy and love.” (White, The Signs of the Times, June 13, 1892, par. 1.)

While poverty is a reality we must accept in a sinful world, it is not one we must embrace. The “attributes of mercy and love” are not cultivated when we turn a blind eye to the needs of those around us. On the contrary, God calls His followers to care for the poor among us. “He who has pity on the poor lends to the Lord, and He will pay back what he has given” (Prov. 19:17).

Moreover, a Christian’s duty is to practice justice and mercy in all situations. “He has shown you, O man, what is good; and what does the Lord require of you but to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God?” (Micah 6:8). It may be easier to keep silent when we see oppression around us, but God enjoins us to engage our societies in seeking justice and mercy for the downtrodden.

The Christian realizes that full justice will only be realized when Jesus comes again. But they also recognize their duty to mediate on behalf of the weak and voiceless. This week we consider how Sabbath-keeping Christians ought to be at the forefront of seeking the welfare of the needy.

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 25 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Leviticus 25:13–17. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `