---
title:  Friends of the Earth
date:  21/08/2022
---

#### inGest

Creationists and evolutionists are polar opposites regarding their view of the origin of life; however, their divergent views do not alter the reality that they occupy the same planet. Neither the creationist nor the evolutionist has yet discovered a habitable alternative beyond earth. This means that irrespective of their views of origin, each has a vested interest in preserving planet earth.

For the evolutionist, this vested interest springs naturally from self-preservation. For the Seventh-day Adventist creationist, it proceeds from a nonnegotiable divine mandate! The creationist’s authoritative text, the Bible, states that the Creator gave Adam and Eve “dominion” over creation (Gen. 1:26). This dominion or rule must be interpreted more biblically than etymologically, and is best understood in the context of an additional directive God gave Adam: “And the Lord God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it” (Gen. 2:15, KJV). “Dress” connotes service, and “keep” expresses protection. Not abuse! Not exploitation!

As surely as Adam was to develop and manage the Garden of Eden, his home, so surely were he and his descendants to manage the entire planet. This is beautifully expressed by Ellen White: “The Garden of Eden was a representation of what God desired the whole earth to become.” (White, Education, 22.) This means that the divine “dress it” and “keep it” mandate for Eden was to apply on a global scale. In the same breath that God said, “Be fruitful and multiply,” He said, “Have dominion” (Gen. 1:28).

The “Seventh-day” segment of Seventh-day Adventist proclaims creation—that from which God rested and which He entrusted to mankind’s loving care. A genuine Seventh-day Adventist is an environmentalist of the highest order.

This care for the environment has a higher motivation than preserving pristine surroundings. Since “the whole earth is full of His glory” (Isa. 6:3), and since His glory is His character, that is, His image (2 Cor. 3:18) (See also Ellen G. White, God’s Amazing Grace (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1973), 322.), those who preserve the earth are preserving the evidence of a loving God. Pollution, exploitation, and neglect of nature effectively efface this evidence of a mighty power. No pollutant threatens to erase that glory more than sin! A biblical environmentalist, therefore, will do all that human effort mingled with divine power can accomplish—avoidance of sin, the original and current pollutant!

The Sabbath is a weekly reminder of humanity’s sacred responsibility to care for the earth, not only as a dwelling place but as a living laboratory of the glory of God.

**Memorize your favorite verse in Leviticus 25. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How do you balance caring for the environment while not worshiping nature?`

`In what ways can environmentalism be evangelistic?`