---
title:  The Reset
date:  22/08/2022
---

#### inTerpret

A key text when considering what Scripture says about the Sabbath is Isaiah 58:13, 14. It delineates what to do and what not to do on the Sabbath concomitant with blessings that will attend the faithful Sabbath keeper. However, the chapter does not begin with a discussion of the Sabbath, and its beginning cannot be divorced from its conclusion.

God’s people have transgressed (Isa. 58:1) despite the fact that they are devoutly engaged in religious activities (vv. 2, 3). But their religiosity is counter-productive (v. 4) and does not even accord with God’s expressed will (v. 5).

In contrast to their self-centered religious activity, God desires that they express their commitment to Him through acts of selfless service to others (vv. 6, 7, 9, 10). As John would later articulate, “If someone says, ‘I love God,’ and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen?” (1 John 4:20).

One cannot miss the language in verses 9, 10, and 13—“if.” These statements come in response to the negative evaluation of the current state of God’s people’s religion. The first “if” calls for God’s people to refrain from hurting each other (v. 9). The second “if” invites them to minister to the needs of those around them (v. 10). And the third “if” brings us to the Sabbath commandment (v. 13). Thus, true Sabbath observance is inextricably linked to acts of selfless service.

The seventh-day Sabbath meant a time of rest not only for humanity but for the beasts of burden as well. In fact, everything involved in humanity’s secular toil enjoyed a weekly repose. As Israel entered the promised land, God further instituted a sabbath rest for the land.

Every seventh year, the land was to rest from being worked (Lev. 25:1–7). Then after seven cycles of seven years, the Israelites were to observe the year of Jubilee in the fiftieth year (Lev. 25:8, 9). Not only would the land rest during the year of Jubilee, but it was a time to “proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all its inhabitants” (v.10). Land was reverted to its original owner, debts were remitted, and slaves were granted their freedom. In summary, the message of the year of Jubilee was that “you shall not oppress one another” (v. 17).

In the Jewish economy, through the year of Jubilee, God had instituted a reset button, so to speak. “Great evils would result from the continued accumulation of wealth by one class, and the poverty and degradation of another. Without some restraint the power of the wealthy would become a monopoly, and the poor, though in every respect fully as worthy in God’s sight, would be regarded and treated as inferior to their more prosperous brethren. The sense of this oppression would arouse the passions of the poorer class. There would be a feeling of despair and desperation which would tend to demoralize society and open the door to crimes of every description. The regulations that God established were designed to promote social equality. The provisions of the sabbatical year and the jubilee would, in a great measure, set right that which during the interval had gone wrong in the social and political economy of the nation.” (White, Patriarchs and Prophets, 534.)

Even from one week to the next, the Sabbath reminds us of our equal standing under God. Fully understanding our worth as humanity instills a responsibility to uplift the downtrodden and humble our lofty notions of self-worth. True Sabbath keeping leads to Christian benevolence.

` `