---
title:  Better Stewards
date:  24/08/2022
---

#### inVite

The first three commandments delineate our duty to God, and the last six outline our duty to our fellow humanity. In the fourth commandment we find a merger of our duty to God and our duty to humanity. Because God worked, we may rest (Exod. 20:11). God rested and commands us to follow His example. But we must also foster rest for all within our sphere of influence on the Sabbath day, even the beasts of burden (Exod. 20:10).

The sabbath that the land experienced every seven years (Lev. 25:1–7) gave it the opportunity to replenish its nutrients, just as our weekly Sabbath rest allows the body to rejuvenate. Every seven years the land was to rest from its work of providing food for Israel, and Israel was reminded that it is God who ultimately provides for them (Lev. 25:21).

The seven-year Sabbath cycle had some faith-challenging implications for Israel. When they harvested their crops in the sixth year, they needed to trust that God would provide an adequate harvest to meet their needs (Lev. 25:21). They would have needed food for that seventh year and seed to plant in the eighth year that would begin a new seven-year cycle, as well as food for that eighth year as well. Reminiscent of their manna experience in the wilderness, the Israelites had to trust God to take care of them (Exodus 16).

Beyond the seven-year cycle, God also instituted a fifty-year cycle of rest for the land. The Israelites were to number seven cycles of seven years, and after the forty-ninth year, they were to celebrate the year of Jubilee in the fiftieth year. By keeping the year of Jubilee, Israel declared their dependence upon God for their physical sustenance. Their harvest in the sixth year would provide food for them in the seventh year, the eighth year (or the year of Jubilee), and the first year of the next cycle, in addition to enough seed to plant in that first year (Lev. 25:22).

In a graphic way, this system highlighted Israel’s dependence upon God. It was in that context of a heightened focus on God that the social reforms (discussed in inTerpret) were to take place as well as the environmental care for the land (discussed in inGest). The more fully we are established in our relationship of dependence upon God, the better stewards we will be of the earth and of our fellow humankind. Every week, the Sabbath affords us an opportunity to embrace a faithful relationship with our Creator, which translates into a better relationship with His creation.

`In what ways has your increased love for God impacted your relationships with His creation?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`