---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT, THE BIBLE, AND PRAYER
date:   04/03/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT, THE BIBLE, AND PRAYER

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON
John 15:7; Matthew 7:7; Psalm 66:18; James 1:6–8; 1 John 5:14, 15; Acts 2:38.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE</p>
> “In the same way, the Holy Spirit helps us when we are weak. We [do not] know what we should pray for. But the Spirit himself prays for us. He prays through groans too deep for words. God, who looks into our hearts, knows the mind of the Spirit. And the Spirit prays for God’s people just as God wants him to pray” (Romans 8:26, 27, NIrV).

BEING TRULY SPIRITUAL GOES TOGETHER WITH PRAYER. There is no real spiritual life without strong prayer. Our need for repentance (turning away from sin) is very important. But perhaps one of the greatest and most urgent needs is a new prayer life. The good news is that even in our prayers we have the help of the Holy Spirit. Prayer draws us closer to God. It brings us near to Him. 

God is more than able to supply all of our needs according to His riches (Philippians 4:19). And God is always at the center of all true prayer and spiritual life. After all, both prayer and the spiritual life are rooted in His Written Word (the Bible). 

We should never base our spiritual lives on our unsteady experience or our feelings. We should not base our prayers on false spiritual exercises or on ideas that cannot be trusted. Instead, the Bible must guide our spiritual lives. We must follow God’s will (plan). And it is shown to us in His Word. The Holy Spirit also awakens in us a desire to seek God in prayer. He leads us to lift up one another in our prayers. 
