---
title:  THE BIBLE TEACHES THAT WE MUST HAVE FAITH IN GOD’S PROMISES WHEN WE PRAY
date:   07/03/2017
---

THE BIBLE TEACHES THAT WE MUST HAVE FAITH IN GOD’S PROMISES WHEN WE PRAY

(Mark 11:24)

`Yesterday, we learned that prayer involves asking God for what we need. Now read Mark 11:24. In this verse, what else does Jesus say we must do when we pray?`

Asking is not enough. There is something else that also needs to be included in our prayers: faith. The book of Hebrews tells us that “without faith it is impossible to please God” (Hebrews 11:6, NIrV). We must remember, then, that there are more than three thousand promises in the Bible. And here is how we must claim God’s promises: we must kneel down before God. We must open the Bible to any one of those promises. We must have a heart as pure and simple and trusting as a small child’s. We must ask God to keep His promise to us. And we must believe that He will do what is best for us in His time.

`Read James 1:6–8. How do these verses describe the person who has no faith? Why is faith necessary to receiving the promised gifts?`

We must come to God believing that He lives. And we must come to Him believing that He will reward those who search for Him. What kind of prayer gets results? Effective prayer must be accompanied by two beliefs. First, we must believe that God can answer our prayers. And second, we must believe that God will do so according to His divine plan. 

In the Bible, believing is related to trusting. We can trust someone only when we know the other person to be trustworthy. Suppose we doubt that God will keep His promises. Then we will not move forward in faith to claim God’s promises. And we cannot expect to receive anything from Him. To believe means to take God at His Word (the Bible). It means that we depend on God and His promises. We trust Him, even when our feelings tell us to doubt. 

Faith, then, always opens the door to the divine treasure-house. God works through the Holy Spirit to move the hearts of men and women to trust the Word of God. And our faithful prayers move the all-powerful arm of God. 

`What helps you to grow stronger in faith? How does Jesus help you to believe that He is willing and able to help you in your times of need?`
