---
title:  THE BIBLE TEACHES THAT WE MUST CLAIM GOD’S PROMISES
date:   08/03/2017
---

### THE BIBLE TEACHES THAT WE MUST CLAIM GOD’S PROMISES

(1 John 5:14, 15)

We must claim the things that God promises us when we pray. If we do not, then what we believe or how much we believe will make no difference. 

`Read 1 John 5:14, 15. These verses say that we can be sure that God hears us. And we can be sure that we have what we ask for from Him. What does John say is the reason we have for trusting these promises?` 

We must ask God for what we need in keeping with what He wants. And we must believe His promises. Then we need to claim what He has promised. We can claim God’s promise by giving thanks to God. But we must thank Him even before we receive what we ask for from Him. In this way, the promises become part of our hearts. They live within us. Ellen G. White said, “We may ask for any gift God promises. Then we are to believe that we receive the promise. And we are to give thanks to God that we have received it.”—Adapted from Education, page 258. 

In Luke 8:1–11, Jesus shows how the Word of God is like seed. A whole apple tree, for example, is contained in an apple seed. In the same way, the gift of God is contained in His promise. We must claim the promise. 

John 11 shows that Jesus prayed in this way. In John 11:39–41, we read that Jesus thanked the Father for bringing Lazarus back to life. But Lazarus was still in the grave. Jesus received the answer to His prayer when He thanked God. We must remember, then, that we are God’s children. We also are to live on God’s promises. 

“The Lord says, ‘Call upon Me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you.’ Psalm 50:15 [NKJV]. He invites us to bring to Him the things that puzzle us. We are to tell Him our needs. We are to tell Him of our need for divine help. He asks us always to be ready to pray. We are to ask Him for what we need when trouble comes. Our urgent prayers show our strong trust in God. The sense of our need leads us to pray earnestly. Our heavenly Father is moved by our asking.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 172. 

`Why is it so important to always bring everything to God in prayer?`
