---
title:  PRAYING FOR THE HOLY SPIRIT
date:   09/03/2017
---

### PRAYING FOR THE HOLY SPIRIT

(Ephesians 3:16)

`Read Ephesians 3:16 and Acts 2:38. What do these verses tell us about receiving the Holy Spirit in our lives?`

The Holy Spirit is a blessing. He brings all other blessings into our lives. 

But there is one major obstacle to receiving this blessing: us. We get in the way. We often are unprepared to receive the Holy Spirit. 

So, here is what we need to do to receive the Holy Spirit. We first need to repent (turn from sin). Then we need to surrender our lives fully to Jesus. That is exactly what the church in the New Testament did. And it is the Holy Spirit that even helps us to do that. 

First, then, we answer the Holy Spirit’s call. He calls us to repent. Turning away from sin shows that the Holy Spirit is at work in our lives. So, we need to be humble (not proud). We must have faith. And we need to confess our sins. Then God can wash us clean from all sin. In other words, we need to understand just how fallen we are. We must have a sense of how much we need God and His grace (mercy and forgiveness) in our lives. Without Him, we are lost. We are dead in our sins. And we are in danger of losing eternal life.

Second, earnest prayer helps us to do what God needs us to do so that He can give us the Holy Spirit. Then all we have to do is to ask God for His Spirit. And God will gladly give His Spirit to us. “God is our heavenly Parent. He is willing to give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him. He is more willing to give us His Spirit than earthly parents are willing to give good gifts to their children.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Ye [You] Shall Receive Power, page 284.

We also must remember that the gift of the Holy Spirit is given to lift up Jesus. The Spirit is given to us to help us to be like Christ. The Spirit helps us to serve others. He helps us build up the body of Christ, the church. So, any worship practice in church or at home that lifts up the Spirit above Jesus Christ is wrong. For it is through Jesus that we “come to the Father by the power of the Holy Spirit” (Ephesians 2:18, NIrV). 

`Why is the gift of the Holy Spirit the greatest gift that Jesus could give us? What has been your experience with having the Holy Spirit in your life? How different would your life be without this gift?`