---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   10/03/2017
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

Read Ellen G. White, “ Asking to Give,” pages 139–149, in Christ’s Object Lessons. For helpful and encouraging promises, read Ellen G. White, God Has Promised (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald, 1982).

Without prayer, we have no spiritual power in our lives. Prayer connects us to the Source of all spiritual power. Without prayer, we also have no living link with God.

Truly, we have been given wonderful promises about how God answers prayer. But what about the times when we do not get what we pray for? What about the times when we have done everything God has asked us to do, but we still do not get what we asked for? “Do not be discouraged if your prayers do not seem to be answered right away. The Lord sees that prayer often is mixed with selfishness. In other words, we pray for the things we want. And the Lord does not answer our prayers in the way we might expect. Instead, He tests us. He brings us through situations that make us feel ashamed of our sins. Then we will more clearly see what we truly need. Also, God does not give us those things that will satisfy a hunger for sinful things. He does not give us anything that will hurt us or cause us to dishonor Him. He does not give us those things that will fill us with pride. We must come to God with a heart that has given everything to Him.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, In Heavenly Places, page 89.

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`In what ways does prayer have an effect on your life? That is, what effect does prayer have on you when you pray? In what ways are you different after you have prayed than before you prayed?` 

`Suppose someone has prayed and prayed for something. But he or she has not gotten the answer he or she hoped and prayed for. For example, suppose he or she prayed for the healing of a sick child. What would you say to this person? How do we learn to trust God even in these situations?` 

`In class, talk about your own experiences with prayer. What does prayer mean to you? What have you learned about prayer that could help others who might be struggling with understanding the purpose of prayer?`

`Why is it important to pray even if we do not fully understand how it all works?`