---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   02/12/2017
---

Children of the
Promise
“Therefore hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he will he hardeneth” (Rom. 9:18, KJV).

sabbath
DECEMBER 2
Romans 9
Introduction
Just and Fair Are His Ways


“OK, Mum,” replied little Benjamin as he bravely wiped away the tears from his freckled cheeks. He swallowed hard, his big brown eyes filled with unshakable faith in the words of his mother. He stuck out his pinkie finger and with a stammering voice asked, “Do you pinkie promise, Mum?” At the tender age of four, Benjamin understood how sacred a promise is. Imagine the joy in his little heart knowing that a sovereign covenant was made between him and his mom.

Could we, then, call God unfair?
He would happily continue with his life knowing that his mom would come through for him. With that said, pause for a moment and imagine another little child coming along to claim the promise that was shared between Benjamin and his mom. Also, imagine the mom actually keeping her end of the promise to the other child as well? Could we then call the mom unfair, because she is making promises to both her child and to another? This is the same question that Paul must have faced when he wrote, “That is, They which are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God: but the children of the promise are counted for the seed” (Rom. 9:8). Could we, then, call God unfair? I must say that I, too, in that position, would have probably asked this question.

Perhaps we should look at the concept of the “children of the promise” from another perspective. A friend of mine recently joined the great family of Jesus. Seeing the joy in her heart as she discovers more and more about the love of Jesus is so encouraging to me. At that point I realized the promise of salvation was made equally to her as it was to me, a child born into a believing family.

Which leads me to the next, somewhat controversial statement of Paul: “As it is written, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated” (verse 13). How can a loving, righteous God actually say this? It is unfair! Are we calling God unfair? Paul does not shy away from this. He goes on to say in verse 14, “What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? God forbid.” Paul goes out of his way to make it clear that God chose Jacob and rejected Esau apart from anything that they would do, “so that the purpose of God according to election might stand” (verse 11). He explains that as the Sovereign of the universe, God always accomplishes what He purposes to do.

The study of this chapter reveals to us that only God has a perfect plan for His people, and His plan is fair and just.

Christelle Govender, Durban, Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa

sunday
DECEMBER 3
Eph. 1:4, 5
Evidence
Every Day Is Day One


Growing up, I was never really good at sports, so it came as no surprise that I was almost always the last kid to be picked for the team. When I was on the field, I didn’t know what to do; thus, I was always running around the entire field trying to get the elusive ball, which my feet never touched. Now that I am older and retired, with my dreams of being a football player going unfulfilled, I find myself sometimes feeling the same way on the spiritual field. Am I last to be chosen to do God’s work? I am undeniably willing to evangelize and witness to others, but I wonder if I still come across as that overeager kid running around without a clue.

We get to be the new and improved version of ourselves each morning!
Ephesians 1:4 says, “He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love” (NKJV). As Adventists we can confidently proclaim that we are chosen for God’s team. We each have a certain role to play based on a set of skills with which we have been individually blessed. Luke 9:23 lists the prerequisites for being on this team. “ ‘If anyone desires to come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow Me’ ” (NKJV).

Denying self is not something that’s optional in the Christian life. It is the reality of the new birth. No one can come to Christ unless he is willing to see his old life crucified daily with Christ and start each day in obedience to Him. Just as God chose us, we need to choose to follow Him too—daily. What an amazing way of looking at it! We get to be the new and improved version of ourselves each morning! When Christ resides within you, you are automatically equipped with all the skills needed for your spiritual and physical life. Just as any team is made up of different players in various positions, the spiritual field is the same with some witnessing, others preaching, some praying, and others helping. An effective team is made up of members who have one purpose and whose goals are congruent with their Master’s.

REACT
If we are all chosen by God, does that mean that we are automatically saved? What about free will? What if you do not want to be chosen?
Does denying oneself merely mean giving up our carnal nature? Or does it mean changing your tastes so that you no longer crave carnal things? Remember Lot’s wife: even though she left the city, her heart was still there. What can we learn from her?
Riley Pillay, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa

monday
DECEMBER 4
Romans 9
Logos
Faith + Works = Righteousness


Before You Were Created, I Knew You (Rom. 9:1–5; Eph. 1:4, 5) We were chosen before Creation to be holy and blameless. Paul has a great sorrow, his heart is heavy for the people of Israel. One thing that we always think and wonder about is whether we’re worthy. This could apply to many things—worthy of that promotion, worthy of the blessings we receive, and, most important, worthy enough to be a part of God’s chosen few. We learn about the separation of the sheep and the goats and the wheat and the tares, but we will never seem to know which categories we fit unless we accept that Jesus has given us salvation through Himself.

If we’re good people without God’s grace, where do we stand?
Entitled or Worthy (Rom. 6:9–15)
God’s Word did not fail; it is not based on physical descent but, rather, on being the children of the promise: “What then shall we say? Is God unjust? Not at all!” (Rom. 9:14, NIV). We are all entitled to God’s mercy; however, just because we’re entitled we are not necessarily deemed worthy of receiving it. In life we come across many scenarios where we feel we are owed something. How much more important should it be to us that we receive His mercy and grace? Our God is just. Psalm 25:8 tells us this. Believers can be encouraged to know that God does not contradict Himself.

We Are Just the Clay (Isa. 55:8, 9; Rom. 9:15, 17–24)
Romans 9:15 says, “ ‘I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion’ ” (NIV). Isaiah 55:8 reads, “ ‘For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord’ ” (NIV).

How easy is it for us to forgive someone who has wronged us? If they do something to offend us, we’re very quick to write them off. But if they apologize, it’s harder to accept their apology and forgive them for what they have done. Before we look at the issue of grace and works, we should look at forgiveness and the need to have a clean slate and truly believe that we have a clean slate. God is able to use us, no matter how tainted and broken we are. He wants to use us; but do we want to allow ourselves to be used? As Romans 9:21 says, “Does not the potter have the right to make out of the same lump of clay some pottery for special purposes and some for common use?” (NIV). This in itself shows us that God wants to use us for higher and greater purposes—but only if we allow Him to.

The Remnant of the Remnant (Rom. 9:24–29; 2 Pet. 1:10)
We read in 2 Peter 1:10, “Therefore, my brothers and sisters, make every effort to confirm your calling and election” (NIV). For if you do these things you will never stumble.

We consider ourselves to be the remnant church. What is a remnant? The remnant is what is left behind—the remaining bit after the majority is taken away. We are seen as the remnant church, the faithful few that will remain. Romans 9:27 says, “Isaiah cries out concerning Israel: ‘Though the number of the Israelites be like the sand by the sea, only the remnant will be saved’ ” (NIV).

We are told that because only a few will be left, we need to make our “calling and election sure,” meaning that we should be doing everything in our power to be a part of this remnant. But in saying this, are we saved by faith (grace) or works? If we’re good people without God’s grace, where do we stand?

Gentiles Obtain Righteousness? (Rom. 9:30–33; 1 Pet. 2:6–8)
It’s sometimes easier to lose faith and focus on our works to cleanse ourselves or function as a kind of penance, because we can physically see the result. With faith it’s harder, because it isn’t tangible, we have a harder time grasping that we can be saved by our faith. For us as believers, I feel that they go hand in hand, we can’t have one without the other. When we have faith that we are saved by grace and we claim this promise, we immediately want to do and be good. It happens naturally and isn’t a process whereby we tell ourselves, “OK, my spiritual aspect is sorted out; let’s look at works now, and in doing so I have fulfilled x number of hours doing this and y amount doing that.”

There are also people whom we may classify as nonbelievers who may not have the same faith that we do but have good, genuine hearts. If we look at them and the examples that they set, we can understand what Romans 9:30, 31 says: “Gentiles, who did not pursue righteousness, have obtained it, a righteousness that is by faith” (NIV). The reasoning for this is simply explained in verse 32: “Because they pursued it not by faith but as if it were by works. They stumbled over the stumbling stone” (NIV).

REACT
Do we have the authority to feel that we’re better than nonbelievers because we have been saved?
How do we not get caught up in this mental battle between works and faith?
Germaine Melody Cecil, Durban, Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa

tuesday
DECEMBER 5
2 Pet. 1:10
Testimony
Insurance Policy


“For every human being, Christ has paid the election price. No one need be lost. All have been redeemed. To those who receive Christ as a personal Saviour will be given power to become the sons and daughters of God. An eternal life insurance policy has been provided for all. Whom God elects, Christ redeems. The Saviour has paid the redemption price for every soul. We are not our own; for we are bought with a price. From the Redeemer, who from the foundation of the world has chosen us, we receive the insurance policy that entitles us to eternal life. . . .

“An eternal life insurance policy has been provided for all.”
“This is not an insurance policy the value of which someone else will receive after your death; it is a policy that assures you a life measuring with the life of God—even eternal life. O what an insurance! What a hope! Let us ever reveal to the world that we are seeking for a better country, even a heavenly. Heaven has been made for us, and we want a part in it. We cannot afford to allow anything to separate us from God and heaven. In this life we must be partakers of the divine nature. Brethren and sisters, you have only one life to live. O let it be a life of virtue, a life with Christ in God.”1 “God’s invitation comes to each youth, ‘My son, give Me thine heart; I will keep it pure; I will satisfy its longings with true happiness.’ God loves to make the youth happy, and that is why He would have them give their hearts into His keeping, that all the God-given faculties of the being may be kept in a vigorous, healthful condition. . . .

“Remember that you are the Lord’s property, bought with a price, the suffering and agony of the Son of God. . . . The Lord Jesus claims your service. He loves you. If you doubt His love, look to Calvary. The light reflected from the cross shows you the magnitude of that love which no tongue can tell. He that keepeth My commandments, he it is that loveth Me. We are to become acquainted by diligent study with the commandments of God; and then show that we are His obedient sons and daughters.”2

REACT
Read 2 Peter 1:10. What changes do you need to make in your life to make your “calling and election sure”?

1. “Ellen G. White Comments—2 Peter,” The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 2nd ed., vol. 7, p. 944.
]2. Ellen G. White, Messages to Young People, pp. 408, 409.
Melissa Naidoo, Durban, Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa

wednesday
DECEMBER 6
Matt. 28:19, 20;
James 2:26
How-to
Did I Sign Up for This?


Jesus died for us all. He died for you. He died for me. He died for every other person around us. What, then, of those who aren’t aware of this great sacrifice? Yes, Jesus died for them too. That’s the beauty of the situation.

The choice of salvation is up to us. We choose whether we want to accept God into our lives and accept His gift of salvation. After all, that’s exactly what salvation is—a gift. A gift is something that we receive that we’ve done nothing to deserve. All we would need to attain salvation, then, is faith in God’s plan of salvation, right? There’s more to it than that, though, if you think about it. James 2:26 states: “Anyone who doesn’t breathe is dead, and faith that doesn’t do anything is just as dead!” (CEV).

Faith that doesn’t do anything is dead.
I don’t know about you, but I’d much rather be alive. How, then, can we avoid our faith being dead? Faith that doesn’t do anything is dead. So let’s do something. What exactly are we supposed to be doing? one might ask. Matthew 28:19, 20 has our answer: “Go to the people of all nations and make them my disciples. Baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and teach them to do everything I have told you. I will be with you always, even until the end of the world” (CEV). This is one of the last things Jesus said to His disciples. This command is referred to as the Great Commission. A commission is a job that, once accepted, we are tasked to complete. Our task is to share what we have. We have this knowledge of Jesus dying for us and saving us from eternal death. That gives us hope. Not everybody else has the same hope of a better future in heaven that we do. Don’t you want to share it with the world?

REACT
We’re told that we need to go into every nation; but are there other places, nearer to us, where we can share Jesus?
In what way can I do my job of telling others about Jesus and salvation?
Adam Watson, Durban, Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa

thursday
DECEMBER 7
Eph. 1:4
Opinion
Elected, Selected, and Never Rejected


Many of us believe that the life we’re living is one that is superior to others’. We alienate others so that it becomes a case of “us and them.” Why is that? Are we not the human race anymore? We’d rather separate ourselves from others by the color of our skin, our beliefs, or even our lifestyle habits.

Take a good look around.
We choose to be in our own league; but we forget that these people are our brothers and sisters. The Scriptures say that if they call on the Lord, He will bless them, and the same goes for us. We’re all equal in that sense. He loves all of us, and He wants all of us to be with Him in heaven. You see, He does elect certain people to do different aspects of His work, that is true, but with regard to salvation, everyone who calls on the Lord will be saved. He does not select people to go to heaven. We are not superior or inferior to those around us, because we are all sinners. What makes us different is that we go out and live a life that is pleasing to Him, which shows everyone that there is a God up above who is looking down in love.

Take a good look around. God loves us! He gives us the strength to wake up each morning. He’s created people around us who care for us and love us even when we forget that He’s there. He wants us to share the message of a hopeful life with everyone we meet, because in this world, people see no reason to live anymore, which is really the reason why they chase after money and other items that can provide worldly pleasures, fill a void, and give a purpose to their lives.

If we choose to give our hearts to God, we will very soon find a life worth living and a message worth giving. We will then find that God has given us a purpose. Do your best in every task given to you, work hard to the glory of God. “So, dear brothers and sisters, work hard to prove that you are really among those that God has called and chosen. Do these things, and you will never fall away” (2 Pet. 1:10, NLT).

REACT
Why do we separate ourselves from nonbelievers or even choose to keep away from believers who don’t believe like we do?
How can we be content with working for God, even if it is a small task that is given to us?
How can we embrace our humanity and see others as friends rather than foes?
Darren Jeremy Cecil, Durban, Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa

friday
DECEMBER 8
Exod. 19:6;
Isa. 55:8, 9;
Eph. 1:4, 5
Exploration
Mysterious Wisdom


CONCLUDE
The way in which God operates is truly a mystery, and we do not always understand why He does what He does. But because God is love, we can have peace in what He is doing. In Jonathan Zita’s sermon entitled “When God Is Silent,” which can be found on Audioverse.com, he says something to the effect that anything greater than death is a blessing. God’s grace is so great, and His ultimate plan is to restore the relationship between humanity and Himself. I pray that You will allow God to use you within His plan of redemption.

CONSIDER
Listening to Jonathan Zita’s English sermon, “When God Is Silent” on Audioverse.org and admiring the greatness of God.
Creatively drawing or writing out Isaiah 55:8, 9 and looking at it when you are tempted to question God and what He is doing in your life.
Doing a prayer walk in your community and stopping at every church, mosque, temple, or other place of worship and praying for those individuals who worship there.
Interviewing someone who has been adopted, inquiring of their experience, and reflecting on Ephesians 1:5.
Writing to someone who works for the Adventist Church and thanking them for accepting the responsibility of sharing the gospel and being used by God.
Envisioning your dream ministry for sharing the good news, setting goals for this ministry to happen in the next handful of years, and praying over it daily.
CONNECT
Romans 9.
Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 293, 299, 300; Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 207, 208.
Richard Stearns, The Hole in Our Gospel (Thomas Nelson, 2010).
Michelle Solheiro, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada