---
title:  Every Day Is Day One
date:   03/12/2017
---

**Evidence**: Eph. 1:4, 5

Growing up, I was never really good at sports, so it came as no surprise that I was almost always the last kid to be picked for the team. When I was on the field, I didn’t know what to do; thus, I was always running around the entire field trying to get the elusive ball, which my feet never touched. Now that I am older and retired, with my dreams of being a football player going unfulfilled, I find myself sometimes feeling the same way on the spiritual field. Am I last to be chosen to do God’s work? I am undeniably willing to evangelize and witness to others, but I wonder if I still come across as that overeager kid running around without a clue.

Ephesians 1:4 says, “He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love” (NKJV). As Adventists we can confidently proclaim that we are chosen for God’s team. We each have a certain role to play based on a set of skills with which we have been individually blessed. Luke 9:23 lists the prerequisites for being on this team. “ ‘If anyone desires to come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow Me’ ” (NKJV).

Denying self is not something that’s optional in the Christian life. It is the reality of the new birth. No one can come to Christ unless he is willing to see his old life crucified daily with Christ and start each day in obedience to Him. Just as God chose us, we need to choose to follow Him too—daily. What an amazing way of looking at it! We get to be the new and improved version of ourselves each morning! When Christ resides within you, you are automatically equipped with all the skills needed for your spiritual and physical life. Just as any team is made up of different players in various positions, the spiritual field is the same with some witnessing, others preaching, some praying, and others helping. An effective team is made up of members who have one purpose and whose goals are congruent with their Master’s.

**React**

`If we are all chosen by God, does that mean that we are automatically saved? What about free will? What if you do not want to be chosen?`

`Does denying oneself merely mean giving up our carnal nature? Or does it mean changing your tastes so that you no longer crave carnal things? Remember Lot’s wife: even though she left the city, her heart was still there. What can we learn from her?`

_Riley Pillay, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa_