---
title:  Faith + Works = Righteousness
date:   04/12/2017
---

**Logos**: Romans 9

Before You Were Created, I Knew You (Rom. 9:1–5; Eph. 1:4, 5) We were chosen before Creation to be holy and blameless. Paul has a great sorrow, his heart is heavy for the people of Israel. One thing that we always think and wonder about is whether we’re worthy. This could apply to many things—worthy of that promotion, worthy of the blessings we receive, and, most important, worthy enough to be a part of God’s chosen few. We learn about the separation of the sheep and the goats and the wheat and the tares, but we will never seem to know which categories we fit unless we accept that Jesus has given us salvation through Himself.

**Entitled or Worthy** (Rom. 6:9–15)

God’s Word did not fail; it is not based on physical descent but, rather, on being the children of the promise: “What then shall we say? Is God unjust? Not at all!” (Rom. 9:14, NIV). We are all entitled to God’s mercy; however, just because we’re entitled we are not necessarily deemed worthy of receiving it. In life we come across many scenarios where we feel we are owed something. How much more important should it be to us that we receive His mercy and grace? Our God is just. Psalm 25:8 tells us this. Believers can be encouraged to know that God does not contradict Himself.


**We Are Just the Clay** (Isa. 55:8, 9; Rom. 9:15, 17–24)

Romans 9:15 says, “ ‘I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion’ ” (NIV). Isaiah 55:8 reads, “ ‘For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord’ ” (NIV).

How easy is it for us to forgive someone who has wronged us? If they do something to offend us, we’re very quick to write them off. But if they apologize, it’s harder to accept their apology and forgive them for what they have done. Before we look at the issue of grace and works, we should look at forgiveness and the need to have a clean slate and truly believe that we have a clean slate. God is able to use us, no matter how tainted and broken we are. He wants to use us; but do we want to allow ourselves to be used? As Romans 9:21 says, “Does not the potter have the right to make out of the same lump of clay some pottery for special purposes and some for common use?” (NIV). This in itself shows us that God wants to use us for higher and greater purposes—but only if we allow Him to.

**The Remnant of the Remnant** (Rom. 9:24–29; 2 Pet. 1:10)

We read in 2 Peter 1:10, “Therefore, my brothers and sisters, make every effort to confirm your calling and election” (NIV). For if you do these things you will never stumble.

We consider ourselves to be the remnant church. What is a remnant? The remnant is what is left behind—the remaining bit after the majority is taken away. We are seen as the remnant church, the faithful few that will remain. Romans 9:27 says, “Isaiah cries out concerning Israel: ‘Though the number of the Israelites be like the sand by the sea, only the remnant will be saved’ ” (NIV).

We are told that because only a few will be left, we need to make our “calling and election sure,” meaning that we should be doing everything in our power to be a part of this remnant. But in saying this, are we saved by faith (grace) or works? If we’re good people without God’s grace, where do we stand?

**Gentiles Obtain Righteousness?** (Rom. 9:30–33; 1 Pet. 2:6–8)

It’s sometimes easier to lose faith and focus on our works to cleanse ourselves or function as a kind of penance, because we can physically see the result. With faith it’s harder, because it isn’t tangible, we have a harder time grasping that we can be saved by our faith. For us as believers, I feel that they go hand in hand, we can’t have one without the other. When we have faith that we are saved by grace and we claim this promise, we immediately want to do and be good. It happens naturally and isn’t a process whereby we tell ourselves, “OK, my spiritual aspect is sorted out; let’s look at works now, and in doing so I have fulfilled x number of hours doing this and y amount doing that.”

There are also people whom we may classify as nonbelievers who may not have the same faith that we do but have good, genuine hearts. If we look at them and the examples that they set, we can understand what Romans 9:30, 31 says: “Gentiles, who did not pursue righteousness, have obtained it, a righteousness that is by faith” (NIV). The reasoning for this is simply explained in verse 32: “Because they pursued it not by faith but as if it were by works. They stumbled over the stumbling stone” (NIV).

**React**

`Do we have the authority to feel that we’re better than nonbelievers because we have been saved?`

`How do we not get caught up in this mental battle between works and faith?`

_Germaine Melody Cecil, Durban, Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa_