---
title:  Insurance Policy
date:   05/12/2017
---

**Testimony**: 2 Pet. 1:10

“For every human being, Christ has paid the election price. No one need be lost. All have been redeemed. To those who receive Christ as a personal Saviour will be given power to become the sons and daughters of God. An eternal life insurance policy has been provided for all. Whom God elects, Christ redeems. The Saviour has paid the redemption price for every soul. We are not our own; for we are bought with a price. From the Redeemer, who from the foundation of the world has chosen us, we receive the insurance policy that entitles us to eternal life. . . .

“This is not an insurance policy the value of which someone else will receive after your death; it is a policy that assures you a life measuring with the life of God—even eternal life. O what an insurance! What a hope! Let us ever reveal to the world that we are seeking for a better country, even a heavenly. Heaven has been made for us, and we want a part in it. We cannot afford to allow anything to separate us from God and heaven. In this life we must be partakers of the divine nature. Brethren and sisters, you have only one life to live. O let it be a life of virtue, a life with Christ in God.”<sup>1</sup> “God’s invitation comes to each youth, ‘My son, give Me thine heart; I will keep it pure; I will satisfy its longings with true happiness.’ God loves to make the youth happy, and that is why He would have them give their hearts into His keeping, that all the God-given faculties of the being may be kept in a vigorous, healthful condition. . . .

“Remember that you are the Lord’s property, bought with a price, the suffering and agony of the Son of God. . . . The Lord Jesus claims your service. He loves you. If you doubt His love, look to Calvary. The light reflected from the cross shows you the magnitude of that love which no tongue can tell. He that keepeth My commandments, he it is that loveth Me. We are to become acquainted by diligent study with the commandments of God; and then show that we are His obedient sons and daughters.”<sup>2</sup>

**React**

`Read 2 Peter 1:10. What changes do you need to make in your life to make your “calling and election sure”?`

<sup>1. “Ellen G. White Comments—2 Peter,” The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 2nd ed., vol. 7, p. 944.</sup>
<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Messages to Young People, pp. 408, 409.</sup>

_Melissa Naidoo, Durban, Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa_