---
title:  Did I Sign Up for This?
date:   06/12/2017
---

**How-to**: Matt. 28:19, 20; James 2:26

Jesus died for us all. He died for you. He died for me. He died for every other person around us. What, then, of those who aren’t aware of this great sacrifice? Yes, Jesus died for them too. That’s the beauty of the situation.

The choice of salvation is up to us. We choose whether we want to accept God into our lives and accept His gift of salvation. After all, that’s exactly what salvation is—a gift. A gift is something that we receive that we’ve done nothing to deserve. All we would need to attain salvation, then, is faith in God’s plan of salvation, right? There’s more to it than that, though, if you think about it. James 2:26 states: “Anyone who doesn’t breathe is dead, and faith that doesn’t do anything is just as dead!” (CEV).

I don’t know about you, but I’d much rather be alive. How, then, can we avoid our faith being dead? Faith that doesn’t do anything is dead. So let’s do something. What exactly are we supposed to be doing? one might ask. Matthew 28:19, 20 has our answer: “Go to the people of all nations and make them my disciples. Baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and teach them to do everything I have told you. I will be with you always, even until the end of the world” (CEV). This is one of the last things Jesus said to His disciples. This command is referred to as the Great Commission. A commission is a job that, once accepted, we are tasked to complete. Our task is to share what we have. We have this knowledge of Jesus dying for us and saving us from eternal death. That gives us hope. Not everybody else has the same hope of a better future in heaven that we do. Don’t you want to share it with the world?

**React**

`We’re told that we need to go into every nation; but are there other places, nearer to us, where we can share Jesus?`

`In what way can I do my job of telling others about Jesus and salvation?`

_Adam Watson, Durban, Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa_