---
title:  Elected, Selected, and Never Rejected
date:   07/12/2017
---

**Opinion**: Eph. 1:4

Many of us believe that the life we’re living is one that is superior to others’. We alienate others so that it becomes a case of “us and them.” Why is that? Are we not the human race anymore? We’d rather separate ourselves from others by the color of our skin, our beliefs, or even our lifestyle habits.

We choose to be in our own league; but we forget that these people are our brothers and sisters. The Scriptures say that if they call on the Lord, He will bless them, and the same goes for us. We’re all equal in that sense. He loves all of us, and He wants all of us to be with Him in heaven. You see, He does elect certain people to do different aspects of His work, that is true, but with regard to salvation, everyone who calls on the Lord will be saved. He does not select people to go to heaven. We are not superior or inferior to those around us, because we are all sinners. What makes us different is that we go out and live a life that is pleasing to Him, which shows everyone that there is a God up above who is looking down in love.

Take a good look around. God loves us! He gives us the strength to wake up each morning. He’s created people around us who care for us and love us even when we forget that He’s there. He wants us to share the message of a hopeful life with everyone we meet, because in this world, people see no reason to live anymore, which is really the reason why they chase after money and other items that can provide worldly pleasures, fill a void, and give a purpose to their lives.

If we choose to give our hearts to God, we will very soon find a life worth living and a message worth giving. We will then find that God has given us a purpose. Do your best in every task given to you, work hard to the glory of God. “So, dear brothers and sisters, work hard to prove that you are really among those that God has called and chosen. Do these things, and you will never fall away” (2 Pet. 1:10, NLT).

**React**

`Why do we separate ourselves from nonbelievers or even choose to keep away from believers who don’t believe like we do?`

`How can we be content with working for God, even if it is a small task that is given to us?`

`How can we embrace our humanity and see others as friends rather than foes?`

_Darren Jeremy Cecil, Durban, Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa_