---
title:  Mysterious Wisdom
date:   08/12/2017
---

**Exploration**: Exod. 19:6; Isa. 55:8, 9; Eph. 1:4, 5

**Conclude**

The way in which God operates is truly a mystery, and we do not always understand why He does what He does. But because God is love, we can have peace in what He is doing. In Jonathan Zita’s sermon entitled “When God Is Silent,” which can be found on Audioverse.com, he says something to the effect that anything greater than death is a blessing. God’s grace is so great, and His ultimate plan is to restore the relationship between humanity and Himself. I pray that You will allow God to use you within His plan of redemption.

**Consider**

- Listening to Jonathan Zita’s English sermon, “When God Is Silent” on Audioverse.org and admiring the greatness of God.
- Creatively drawing or writing out Isaiah 55:8, 9 and looking at it when you are tempted to question God and what He is doing in your life.
- Doing a prayer walk in your community and stopping at every church, mosque, temple, or other place of worship and praying for those individuals who worship there.
- Interviewing someone who has been adopted, inquiring of their experience, and reflecting on Ephesians 1:5.
- Writing to someone who works for the Adventist Church and thanking them for accepting the responsibility of sharing the gospel and being used by God.
- Envisioning your dream ministry for sharing the good news, setting goals for this ministry to happen in the next handful of years, and praying over it daily.

**Connect**

1. Romans 9.
2. Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 293, 299, 300; Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 207, 208.
3. Richard Stearns, The Hole in Our Gospel (Thomas Nelson, 2010).

_Michelle Solheiro, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_