---
title:  The Cadence of Life
date:   26/04/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: 1 Chronicles 23

**The Cadence of Life**

I couldn’t tell you when it started, but I don’t remember a time it didn’t happen. Whether we were in school or on a break, feeling well or not, asleep or wide awake, at 5:00 a.m., everyone in the home I grew up in had to get up for morning worship.

The first call usually came around 4:45 or so. My mother would enter our rooms and announce herself. “Hello, hello! Good morning! It’s almost time for worship! Time to get up and come to the living room, guys!” I love my mother very much, but her persistence at 4:45 a.m. was just more than I could take some days. If we weren’t in the living room by 5:00 a.m., she would return, this time shaking us until we were fully awake, and she wouldn’t leave until we were walking to the worship room with her. Once there, my parents would launch into a hymn to get things going—and yes, we were expected to sing. I still know quite a number of hymns today because I sang them every morning at home. The song was generally followed by a short devotional reading or thought, and then my dad would close with prayer.

Why go to so much trouble to rouse five bleary-eyed kids for worship at 5:00 a.m.? My parents believed that we would be spiritually empty during the day if we did not start our morning with God. They wanted us to follow a plan laid down in Scripture to begin and end each day with God. This week, we will examine God’s institution of morning and evening worship in the lives of His chosen people, both then and now.

### inScribe

Write out 1 Chronicles 23:25–32 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 30–32. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `