---
title:  Getting Ready to Worship
date:   27/04/2025
---

### inGest

1 Chronicles 23 records David and Solomon’s preparations to build a permanent temple after establishing the nation’s headquarters in Jerusalem (1 Chron. 23:25, 26). David’s dream had been to build God a permanent residence where He could dwell with the Israelites forever (2 Sam. 7:1–7). While God loved David’s heart, He chose to give this honor to Solomon, his son.

What’s especially inspiring is David’s response when God gave the assignment to another. He did not sulk or complain. He set about making extensive preparations so Solomon could more easily fulfill God’s special directive (1 Chron. 22). How many of us take disappointment that way? David was nearing the end of his life. Even as he turned the throne over to Solomon, the temple was still on the old king’s mind and heart. Together with his son, David identified 38,000 descendants from the tribe of Levi: 24,000 to work in the temple, 6,000 to serve as officers and judges, 4,000 to serve as gatekeepers, and another 4,000 to serve as musicians (23:4, 5).

Beyond the numbers, David gave instructions regarding the temple’s services. Central to everything were the daily morning and evening worships at the temple (v. 30). This was a reiteration of when God, through Moses, instructed the priests to lead a morning and evening sacrifice: “One lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer at twilight” (Exod. 29:39). At the temple in the capital city of Jerusalem, this morning and evening worship of God would be exemplified for the whole nation.

Israelite life was meant to exist between two daily foundational spiritual experiences. God intended His people to begin and end their days with Him. They were to never take His presence, provision, and protection for granted. They needed God’s power to protect them from threats outside their community and from temptations within, such as the desire to practice the values and morals of the surrounding nations. The morning and evening sacrifices were God’s way of establishing a devotional pattern for Israelite individuals and families to follow, a way of keeping them in a right relationship with Him. These morning and evening connections with God were designed to guard and guide Israelite life.

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verses from 1 Chronicles 23. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What challenges prevent you from engaging in proper daily worship?`

`What steps can you take this week to improve your daily time with God?`