---
title:  The Daily
date:   28/04/2025
---

### inTerpret

Over three hundred years had passed between God’s command to Moses to build Him a sanctuary and David’s organization of the Levites as Solomon prepared to build the temple in Jerusalem. Much had happened to the nation during those intervening centuries. The book of Judges illuminates how far Israel had wandered from the Lord during this period of time, describing many times the Israelites fell into deep apostasy. This apostasy weakened them spiritually and angered God, who would then punish them by leaving them at the mercy of their enemies. After several years of pain and suffering under enemy oppression, they would repent and beg God for deliverance. God would then send a deliverer to free them and rebuild their relationship with Him, only to see the Israelites begin the cycle all over again.

The morning and evening sacrifices, collectively referred to as “the daily,” should have prevented the Israelites from falling into apostasy. God intended the sacrifice of one lamb in the morning and another in the evening to sensitize the Israelites to the nature of sin. Throughout each day, their minds had dwelt on sinful things and they had done things they should not have done. Each day, they had sinned against God in one way or another. God did not want His people to continue the habit of sinning without consequence or accountability. He wanted them to see that sin has a steep price. It always requires the shedding of blood (Heb. 9:22), usually the blood of something innocent (1 Pet. 1:19).

The daily service had another purpose as well. With each morning sacrifice, the Israelites symbolically dedicated themselves to God for the day. With each evening sacrifice, they essentially said, “God, I thank You for this day. If I have done anything today that is unlike You, please forgive me. I want to rededicate my life to You.” Blessings from God would flow to His people as each sacrifice renewed their relationship with Him. How can we continue this practice of dedication and rededication today? Ellen White answers that “the homes of Christians should be lights in the world. From them, morning and evening, prayer should ascend to God as sweet incense. And as the morning dew, His mercies and blessings will descend upon the suppliants” (Tesimonies for the Church, vol. 7 [1902], 44). God gives special blessings to those who consistently worship Him with their whole hearts.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`At what time in your life was your daily worship of God strongest? How can you revive it?`