---
title:  Force of Habit
date:   30/04/2025
---

### inVite

Some years ago, I sat down for a conversation with my work supervisor. He had dedicated over forty years of his life to ministry, and when he spoke, I listened. I loved this man of God for many reasons, but especially for his ability to establish effective routines to live by. He was a creature of habit. For example, he’s a collector of newspapers. Wherever he travels in the world, he gets important newspapers. He also collects special promotional items from Seventh-day Adventist institutions around the world—a water bottle from here, a bag or a hat from there, etc. If there’s one habit of his that I love the most, it’s his habit of keeping a diary. In the 1960s, he began to write daily, and that habit has continued for close to sixty years. Can you imagine 60 years of personal diaries?

My friend’s journals captured trials and triumphs, the mundane and the magnificent, answered prayers and prayers waiting for answers. He can trace God’s daily work in his life for over half a century. It is an astounding record of God’s love—and of the power of a good routine. Habits are powerful things.

If there’s one habit Satan will do everything to prevent you from developing, it’s spending time with God every morning and evening. He will distract you with media. He will urge you to sleep through your worship alarm. He will encourage you to make worship quick so you can get to school or work on time. He will send people your way whose needs are so critical that you must stop your worship to attend to them. Have you experienced any of this when you tried to get serious about your daily walk with God? If you have, do not be discouraged. What you need is a plan. Spend time at the beginning of each week planning your daily devotional time with God. You might want to read your inVerse lesson in the morning and begin a study of end-time faith in the evening. Maybe your mornings will be times of prayer, and your evening worship will be driven by Bible study. Whatever you choose to do, failing to plan is planning to fail. Making a plan and putting it in your calendar, with appropriate reminders, will take the guesswork out of your time with God, which can be a barrier to daily worship. Pay attention to how you’re feeling in your time with God. Note the highlights and the low moments. These moments will prove precious in years to come, and you will be able to trace God’s hand in your life.

### Journal

`Meditate on 1 Chronicles 23 again and look for Jesus.`

`What’s a habit you’ve established that has changed your life?`

`How did you see Jesus differently or see Him again during this week’s study?`

`Prayer Response:`