---
title: A Greater Battle
date: 20/07/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 13:24–43**

**A Greater Battle**

My wife’s family lived in Norway during the Second World War and were there when German forces invaded. Gunnar, my wife’s grandfather, related an experience he had as a young man during the early stages of the occupation. One Sabbath, he attended a church gathering in a home. After singing and praying, the group began their Bible study, but they hadn’t gotten very far into their study when gunshots began. At first, they sounded quite distant, but eventually, they came closer and closer. The small band of Adventists decided it would be best to seek shelter in the basement of the house. Gunnar quickly made his way to safety, leaving his coat hanging on the chair where he had been sitting. The shots continued for some time as the German soldiers passed through the area and occasionally met resistance. After much prayer and waiting, the little group made their way back upstairs to the living room. To his utter shock, Gunnar found that a bullet had pierced his coat! You can imagine how grateful he was for God’s protection! He was literally caught in the crossfire, yet God had preserved his life.

Jesus told a parable that describes how we are all involved in a cosmic battle between good and evil. The parable of the wheat and the tares provides insights into the epic struggle raging in this world. The Son of Man is responsible for the good seed, while the devil is the one who introduced the weeds. Both kinds of seeds grow together and reach maturity in the field, which Jesus identifies as the world. We are all caught in the crossfire of this great controversy! This parable invites us to choose between two destinies. God offers us a place in His kingdom, an opportunity to belong to Him no matter what kind of noxious weeds surround us. At the right time, the weeds will be removed and destroyed.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 13:24–43 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 24–30. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `