---
title: The Age-old Question of Evil
date: 21/07/2024
---

#### inGest

When the disciples asked Jesus about the parable of the wheat and the tares, their question revealed the theme that caught their attention the most. “And His disciples came to Him, saying, ‘Explain to us the parable of the tares of the field’ ” (Matt. 13:36). The parable addresses more than just noxious weeds, but this act of the enemy perplexed them, and they wanted to know more. Millions throughout the centuries have been perplexed by the age-old question of how evil originated. The question comes in different shapes and forms. The fact is, we wrestle with things that we sense are amiss. Many people struggle with the apparent dichotomy of a God of love and a world of suffering. They often ask, “If there is a God of love, why is there so much suffering in the world?”

This question itself immediately reveals something significant: we place value on people and creation. People were not meant to suffer, and the world was not meant to be filled with war and disasters. If the world merely operated on the principle of “survival of the fittest,” it would make no sense to question the existence of suffering. Survival of the fittest actually requires some to suffer for others to succeed. One of the most outspoken atheists of modern times, Richard Dawkins, made this statement in his book: “The universe we observe has... no evil and no good.... DNA neither cares nor knows. DNA just is. And we dance to its music” (River Out of Eden: A Darwinian View of Life [1995], 133). A naturalistic worldview denies the possibility of evil because evil’s existence implies moral accountability, but we all know intuitively that evil exists. If evil is real, then good is also real—otherwise we wouldn’t be able to distinguish between the two. If good and evil exist, we need a moral standard to know the difference. The presence of such a moral standard requires a Giver of this moral standard. Therefore, the question of evil and suffering ultimately points to a good God who upholds a moral standard.

Something has gone terribly wrong in the universe, and this is exactly what the narrative of Scripture reveals. The Bible shows how people throughout the centuries have navigated pain and suffering. Books like Job and Psalms display real people crying out to God for answers. The answer is not straightforward. Remember, the tares were sown at night. The origin of evil is mysterious and hidden, but the Bible does reveal enough for us to understand the big picture. The parable of the wheat and the tares provides a framework to help us understand the battle between good and evil.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How can the Bible’s picture of the struggle between good and evil help us navigate life’s challenges?`

`How does a “survival of the fittest” worldview excuse and necessitate evil?`