---
title: The Only Qualified Judge
date: 22/07/2024
---

#### inTerpret

The enemy who scattered the evil seeds is the devil (Matt. 13:39). Other portions of Scripture identify this enemy as an exalted angel named Lucifer, who rebelled against his Maker (Isa. 14:12–14; Ezek. 28:12–15; Rev. 12:4, 7–9). One third of heaven’s angels also sided with Lucifer in his rebellion, and all ended up removed from heaven. At this point, a serious question arises: Why did God create a being who would bring sin into the universe? We find the answer in God’s character.

The Bible tells us that “God is love” (1 John 4:8). For love to be genuine, it must be given freedom of choice. God did not want the love of programmed angels and humans. We are not moved by a computer that is programmed to say, “I love you.” The very opportunity to accept love necessitates the opportunity to reject love. Free beings must choose of their own volition whether to love or not. Love requires freedom, but freedom involves risk.

These concepts are inseparably connected to the central issues of the great controversy. The field in the parable symbolizes our world, for we live in a world with wheat and tares. (Matt. 13:38) While a great potential for good exists in the world, it’s paralleled by a great potential for evil. The world looks like a battlefield because it is one, and we often wonder why suffering seems to continue for so long. In the parable, the owner of the field says concerning the wheat and the tares, “Let both grow together until the harvest” (Matt. 13:30). The harvest will eventually come at “the end of the age” (Matt. 13:39). The final judgment does not take place until all have seen the full effects of evil. Evil must fully develop and come to fruition for its true nature to be completely exposed. Only when the true results of sin are evident can God totally eradicating evil. When He does this, sin will never rise again. The prophet Nahum promises, “Affliction will not rise up a second time” (Nah. 1:9).

The parable describes two groups of people: “The good seeds are the sons of the kingdom, but the tares are the sons of the wicked one” (Matt. 13:38). Throughout life, all people make decisions that determine on which side they stand in this battle between good and evil.

This picture not only represents the world, but also the church of Christ in the world. The parable describes the work of salvation in the hearts of humankind. The church, like the world, is made up of wheat and tares. Not all who profess to be Christians have allowed Jesus into their lives. As we cannot read people’s hearts, we need to be careful not to judge them. Only God is qualified to judge in the end.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`God created you with a free will. What does this say about God and the relationship He wants with you?`