---
title: The Goodness of God
date: 24/07/2024
---

#### inVite

The parable of the wheat and the tares reveals God’s goodness. In this story, the man sowing the good seed is identified as the “Son of Man” (Matt. 13:37). Jesus often used this phrase when describing Himself. The Son of Man also separates the wheat from the tares when the harvest finally happens. “The Son of Man will send out His angels, and they will gather out of His kingdom all things that offend, and those who practice lawlessness, and will cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear!” (Matt. 13:41–43). Jesus sows the good seed and harvests the good wheat. He is actively involved in preparing people to inherit His everlasting kingdom. Jesus comes beside us in our suffering. He became one of us and knows what we are going through. In a world where evil flourishes, Jesus reveals His goodness.

Scripture contains many examples of God’s goodness. In Psalm 23, David rejoices in God’s faithfulness even in the dark valleys of life. The God described in this Psalm is the same God who came into this world and walked among us. David writes, “The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me to lie down in green pastures; He leads me beside the still waters. He restores my soul; He leads me in the paths of righteousness for His name’s sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for You are with me; Your rod and Your staff, they comfort me.” (vv. 1–4). In the darkest chapters of life, we have someone who is by our side. Jesus is called Immanuel—“God with us” (Matt. 1:23). David discerned God’s presence even when he was a fugitive and his life was in danger. In the times of greatest peril, David focused on God’s goodness: “Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life; and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.” (Ps. 23:6). We may have to endure difficult trials now, but God has prepared a bright future for all who follow Him.

Knowing God’s goodness leads to true repentance (Rom. 2:4). His goodness grows and matures us spiritually. Jesus reveals in the parable that we belong to God and that He’s doing all in His power to prepare us for His eternal kingdom. The servants in the parable must choose whether they trust the owner when He allows the wheat and tares to continue growing together until the harvest. The parable of the wheat and the tares invites us to trust God’s plan.

`Have you ever met a person who’s just overflowing with God’s goodness? How do such people impact their environment?`

`What is Jesus saying to you through the primary text?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`