---
title: Foundations
date: 21/09/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 7:21–27**

**Foundations**

While I was preaching at a camp meeting in Germany, author Eva Paul gave me a copy of her book Neither Death Nor Life. I started reading it on my flight back home and couldn’t put it down. The book narrates the incredible adventures of her grandparents, Hans and Susanna Roth, who grew up in rural twentieth-century Transylvania. Born between two world wars, they clung to their faith despite tremendous obstacles. In a time of political upheaval, the rise of communism, ethnic strife, and religious persecution, their faith was challenged to the core again and again. Besides the outer pressures of the world into which they were born, they experienced personal calamities, including the loss of a child.

The title, Neither Death Nor Life, was taken from Romans 8:38, 39, where the apostle Paul writes, “For I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels nor principalities nor powers, nor things present nor things to come, nor height nor depth, nor any other created thing, shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.” This couple’s firm faith directly resulted from building their lives on the Rock, Jesus Christ. They were continually hit by the storms of life but found a foundation and refuge in Him.

Jesus told the story of a wise man who built his house firmly on the rock, in contrast to a foolish man who built his house on the sand. When a storm hit both homes, the one on the rock stood firm while the one on the sand collapsed. In this final lesson, we will take a closer look at what it means to build on the rock versus on the sand. Jesus was revealing that things we thought were solid and predictable in life do not provide the foundation we need when challenges come our way. Earthly security can give the illusion of a firm foundation, but we need something that lasts longer. We are all building our lives; the question is, what we have chosen as our foundation?

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 7:21–27 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 24–27. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `