---
title: Building on Sand
date: 22/09/2024
---

#### inGest

The illustration of the wise and foolish builders appears at the end of the Sermon on the Mount and begins with the words, “Therefore whoever hears these sayings of mine” (Matt. 7:24). This is an obvious reference back to the teachings contained in the Sermon on the Mount. The difference between the wise and the foolish builders centers around whether they heeded Jesus’ words and lived by them.

In the immediate context before the parable, Jesus described those who profess to follow Him but don’t actually know Him. They advertise their Christianity, saying “Lord, Lord,” (Matt. 7:21), but they fail to submit to God’s will. They gain a lot of attention by prophesying, delivering people from demons, and working miracles in Christ’s name, but they spurn God’s law (vv. 22, 23). There are many who fully embrace the Christian label and are busy with ministry, but stubbornly do things their own way instead of following God’s instructions. This is the class of people represented as the foolish builder in the subsequent parable.

From all outward appearances, these people seem to be doing fine. They even claim to be having mighty experiences with God. Jesus was speaking to religious people here. The man who built his house on the sand heard Christ’s words. The problem is not with what he didn’t hear but with what he didn’t do. Jesus was pointing out that there are stable and unstable foundations on which we can construct our lives.

Regardless of our good intentions, it’s easy to place our trust in what is insecure, like the shifting sand. The foundation of our houses represents one’s beliefs, convictions, and choices. The house can appear solid at first, but the storm exposes whether the foundation was built right. The other parts of the house might include things like a job, marriage, health, or finances. We trust these things to give us stability in life. However, all these things can change. We can lose our job or financial stability. A marriage can break apart, and our health can fail. If we don’t build our lives on a solid foundation, the storms of life will reveal our supposed stability to be an illusion. The rock represents Christ and the principles of His kingdom. He does not change. When storms of life assail us, God’s words, promises, mercy, forgiveness, and power endure.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why do you think a mere profession of Christianity is not enough?`

`What kinds of storms have you experienced or witnessed that test people’s true character? What did you learn from these storms?`