---
title: Build on the Rock
date: 23/09/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Matthew’s account tells us that the man who built his house on the rock heard Jesus’ teachings and lived according to them. He practiced what he heard. Notice a detail Luke adds when he recorded the parable: “He is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. And when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently against that house, and could not shake it, for it was founded on the rock” (Luke 6:48). Luke described the man digging deep to lay a firm foundation. The key here is digging deep. We are invited not only to hear Jesus’ words but also to dig deep into His teachings, seeking to make them the very grounds and structure of our existence.

The wise builder is the one who comes to Jesus, listens to His words, explores His teachings, and then puts them into practice. Obedience demonstrates absolute confidence in Christ’s words, as we acknowledge them to be the very foundation of our lives. Building on the rock isn’t simply being nominally religious or knowing Jesus from a distance. Being a true Christian means basing one’s beliefs, choices, and worldview on the truth of who Jesus is and what He has accomplished. This is someone who cares deeply about truth and sound doctrine.

Another interesting observation is that the difference between the houses was only seen after the storm hit. The foundation of the house on the rock was not visible. However, the results of the decision to dig deep were recognized by everyone once the storm swept in. Challenges, calamities, and trials sweep away the superficial and reveal what is lasting. Our Christian testimony is not that we escape tough times, it’s that our foundation holds strong under pressure. Building on the Rock is in our best interest because then we know how to find peace amid a storm. Jesus provides us with the courage and patience to endure the inevitable storms of life.

Digging deep is a work that takes place inside us. Jesus sustains us with His precious promises, and we are confident He will accomplish everything He has promised. One of the most beautiful definitions of faith is found in Romans 4, which says Abraham “did not waver at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God, and being fully convinced that what He had promised He was also able to perform. And therefore ’it was accounted to him for righteousness’ ” (Rom. 4:20–22).

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`When has your faith been the most tested? What did God teach you through the experience?`