---
title: A Precious Cornerstone
date: 25/09/2024
---

#### inVite

Parables are easy to remember because they contain vivid mental images. We can easily imagine the scene of two builders constructing their houses, one built on sand and the other on a rock. After studying this parable in depth, we might remember it when we see a rock formation. This is the genius of parables. They are full of illustrations, often from nature, that point us to Jesus.

This parable is not the only place in Scripture where a rock represents Christ. Paul presents Jesus as the Rock that supplied the children of Israel with water to quench their thirst: “Moreover, brethren, I do not want you to be unaware that all our fathers were under the cloud.... all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank of that spiritual Rock that followed them, and that Rock was Christ” (1 Cor. 10:1, 4). The symbolism is beautiful. When the Israelites were in the wilderness, Moses was commanded to strike the rock, and water flowed out. Jesus was struck for us, and as a result, we can all drink of the living water He provides. Later, when God’s people desperately needed water again, God told Moses to speak to the rock. Instead, Moses struck the rock twice, an act of disobedience that prohibited him from entering Canaan. The intended symbolism was to communicate that we can ask by faith and Christ will supply, since He has already been struck. These moments in the wilderness were types pointing forward to their antitypical fulfillment in Christ.

When Jesus told the parable of the wicked vinedressers, He described Himself as the stone who had been rejected: “The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone.... And whoever falls on this stone will be broken; but on whomever it falls, it will grind him to powder” (Matt. 21:42, 44). Jesus is the Chief Cornerstone on which we are to build our lives. Either we fall on the Rock as we humble ourselves in repentance or the Rock will ultimately fall on us. Charles Spurgeon, a well-known preacher from the 1800s, said, “The wave of temptation may even wash you higher up upon the Rock of ages, so that you cling to it with a firmer grip than you have ever done before” (“Sin and Grace,” in Spurgeon’s Sermons Volume 54: 1908 [1908]). Trials can be blessings in disguise that make us cling more firmly to Christ.

Jesus does not forsake us to the mercy of the storm. He invites us to anchor our houses to the Rock. Every day presents new opportunities to build firmly on the Rock or fake it on the sand. Each decision we make is like placing another brick in the building. Whenever we choose to take shortcuts and cover up problems, we are preparing ourselves for disaster when the storm hits. By listening to Jesus’ teachings and obeying His instructions, we’re building a solid foundation that no storm can wash away. When the storm hits, it’s too late to build a strong foundation. We must do it now.

`What does building on the Rock, Jesus, look like in everyday life?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you personally through this week’s passage?`

`Prayer Response:`