---
title:  Powerful Proof that Jesus’ Words are True
date:   13/05/2018
---

Jesus sat on the Mount of Olives and told His followers about the things that would happen in the last days. Picture in your mind that you are one of Jesus’ followers there on the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus tells you that the temple in Jerusalem soon will be destroyed. Who knows the things that Jesus’ followers thought when they heard this news. But the questions they ask Jesus later show that His followers connected the total ruin of the temple with the “ ‘end of time’ ” (Matthew 24:3, ERV).

`Read Matthew 24:1–25. As we see from these verses, what message did Jesus give to His followers about the last days of this earth’s history?`

Matthew 24:1–25 makes it clear that Jesus does not want His people to be confused by the lies that will be told in the future. What lies is Jesus talking about? Jesus is talking about the lies that false messengers and false religious leaders will tell His people. Some false religious leaders will say they are Jesus Himself. Do you know what the most awful thing about these false leaders is? Many people will believe them.

We live in a time when we can look back over the long years of history. We can see just how true Jesus’ words are. Even in our day, liars and false leaders have said they were the Savior. They say, “ ‘I am the Messiah [the Savior that God chose to take away our sins]’ ” (Matthew 24:5, ERV). Jesus said this very thing would happen. We should not be surprised if these same lies happen more and more in these last days as we get closer to the end of time.  

Also, look at Jesus’ words about how bad things would be on this earth before He came back. Jesus was right about that too. Since Jesus’ time on earth ended, people have trusted in things they hoped would get rid of all the awful pain that humans suffer. At one time or another, people have hoped that government, science, and knowledge would bring in everlasting peace and a perfect life here on Earth. But history shows us again and again that these hopes have always failed. The world today is exactly as Jesus said it would be.

`Read Matthew 24:25. How does this verse help make our faith stronger and give us hope in what we believe?`
