---
title:  Staying Loyal to God Until the End
date:   14/05/2018
---

`Read Matthew 24:9 and Revelation 13:11–17. What did Jesus say in these verses in Matthew that John also wrote about in these verses in Revelation?`

Jesus warns His people about the many lies the devil will use to trick people in the last days. One of these tricks is a worldwide lie that will cause countries to stand against the true faith and to force everyone on the earth to join in false worship. The people who stand strong against this false worship will experience hate and attacks. Some of these people will even be put to death.

`Read Matthew 24:13. What does Jesus say in this verse is the secret to being saved and staying loyal during the worldwide attacks against God’s people in the future?`

“The people who make their minds strong with Bible truths are the only people who will stay loyal to God until the end of the big war between good and evil.”—The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 593, 494, adapted.

`Read Matthew 7:24–27. In these verses, what else does Jesus say is important for staying loyal to God?`

Yes, it is very important to know the Bible. But Jesus says that knowing the truth is not enough to help us stay loyal to God when the attacks on our faith come during the end times. We also must do the things we learn. We must obey the truth about Jesus too. In the picture story in Matthew 7:24–27, both builders hear Jesus’ sayings. The difference between the two men is that one builder obeys Jesus’ teachings. The other builder does not. That one thing makes a very big difference. It will make all the difference for us, too, in staying loyal to God by obeying Him until the end of time.

`Why does the obedient builder stay strong? Why does the other builder fail? What difference does obedience make in helping a person stay strong in the faith?`
