---
title:  “ ‘The Horrible Thing that Destroys’ ”
date:   15/05/2018
---

In Matthew 24:15, Jesus talks about “ ‘the horrible thing that destroys’ ” (ICB). This word picture comes from the book of Daniel (Daniel 9:27; Daniel 11:31; Daniel 12:11). The NIrV Bible names this horrible thing “ ‘the hated thing that destroys.’ ”

God announced that something was a “ ‘hated thing’ ” or a “ ‘horrible thing’ ” when it broke His law in a terrible way. Some of the sins that God said were terrible included bowing down to statues (Deuteronomy 27:15) and sins that dealt with having sex (Leviticus 18:22). So, the “ ‘horrible thing’ ” meant that in the future many of God’s people would fall away from the truth into false worship.

`Read Matthew 24:15 and Luke 21:20. How do these two verses help us understand better what Jesus means by “ ‘the horrible thing that destroys’ ” (Matthew 24:15, ICB)?`

These two verses make it clear that Jesus’ warning about the future includes the awful ruin that would happen to Jerusalem in A.D. 70. At that time, the Roman Kingdom would destroy the city of Jerusalem and the holy temple.

Jesus’ words are full of meaning for our time too. The ruin of Jerusalem was real and happened in the past. But it also was a word picture for things that would happen in the future. “Jesus saw Jerusalem as a word picture for everyone on earth who did not believe in God and fought against Him.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], pages 22, 23, adapted.

Daniel 12:11 and Daniel 11:31 connect “ ‘the horrible thing that destroys’ ” (ICB) to the time when the Roman Church was in power from A.D. 538 to 1798. During this time, the Roman Church changed Bible truth to false teachings about how humans are saved and come to God. These false ideas covered up the truth about the things Jesus did for us and is doing now for us in heaven’s sanctuary. The sanctuary is the place in heaven where God is worshiped.

As we learned, the little horn is a word picture for the Roman Church. Daniel 8:9 shows us how the little horn’s power spreads fast over the old Roman Kingdom. Then in Daniel 8:10, the little horn attacks God’s people. But the Bible promises us that Jesus will save His people in the last days (Daniel 7:9, 10; Daniel 8:14; Matthew 24:29).
