---
title:  “ ‘Ten Girls Who Went to Wait for the Bridegroom’ ”
date:   16/05/2018
---

In Matthew 24, Jesus talks about the things that will happen before He comes. Next, in Matthew 25, Jesus talks about how to get ready for His coming.

`Read Matthew 25:1–13. In these verses, Jesus tells the picture story about the “Ten Girls Who Went to Wait for the Bridegroom.” What is Jesus saying in these verses that should help us to get ready for His Second Coming?`

The wording “the ten girls who went to wait for the bridegroom” is a word picture. It means people who say they are Christians. These Christians do not join Satan’s side in the war between good and evil. Jesus also uses the wording the “ten girls who went to wait for the bridegroom” as a word picture to show the meaning of the kingdom of heaven (Matthew 25:1). But in the end time, all ten girls fell asleep (Matthew 25:5). Jesus already warned His followers about staying “awake” so they would be ready for Him when He came back at the Second Coming.

All ten girls had lamps. All ten girls went out to meet the bridegroom. That means all ten girls looked forward to His coming. But there was a delay. All these believers in His coming fell asleep. Then all the sudden, at midnight someone cried out that the bridegroom was coming. All the girls woke up (Matthew 25:1–6).

The foolish girls were surprised. They were not ready. Why? One Bible says the foolish girls were surprised because “ ‘the oil in our lamps is all gone’ ” (Matthew 25:8, ERV). Other Bibles put this verse in different words that are truer to the Greek language that the verse was written in first. These Bibles say: “ ‘ “our lamps are going out” ’ ” (NLV, NIrV, ICB). The lamps of these girls still gave off a very small flame. But that very small flame was not enough to help them to be ready to meet Jesus.

What happened?

These five foolish girls are a word picture for Christians who are waiting for Jesus to come back. But they do not really know Jesus. They do not have a deep connection to Him. They have some oil. The oil is a word picture for the Holy Spirit. But these girls did not have enough oil. How sad that they were happy with only a little oil when they really needed a whole lot more.
