---
title:  Using Your Talents
date:   17/05/2018
---

`Read about the gifts God gives us in Matthew 25:13–30. As these verses show us, what part does our using these gifts have in getting us ready for Jesus’ Second Coming?`

Jesus tells another picture story in Matthew 25:13–30. In many ways, it is the same as the picture story before it about the ten girls in Matthew 25:1–13. Both picture stories talk about how to get ready for Jesus to come back. Both picture stories also deal with Christians who are ready and Christians who are not ready. Both picture stories show us what will happen to Christians who do not take care of the things God gives them. They will lose their gift of eternal life.

The “ ‘bags of money’ ” (Matthew 25:15, ERV) or “ ‘bags of gold’ ” (NIrV) are word pictures for talents. “The talents are word pictures for the special gifts the Holy Spirit gives to us. The talents also mean all our natural skills that God gave to us when we were born.”—The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 5, page 510, adapted.

All the servants in the picture story about the talents got talents from their master. Do you see that the talents belonged to the master (Matthew 25:14)? The master gave these talents to his servants. But first the master “ ‘decided how much each servant would be able to care for’ ” (Matthew 25:15, ERV). The master trusted each of his servants with his gifts. These servants were managers of these things. They did not own these gifts. But they were responsible for them. That is why when the master came back, he “ ‘asked the servants what they did with his money’ ” (Matthew 25:19, ERV).

Spiritual gifts come from the Holy Spirit (read 1 Corinthians 12:1–11, 28–31; Ephesians 4:11). Even those believers who think they have a small gift or a gift that is not very important should remember something. When they get their gift, they are getting the One who gave them the gift—the Holy Spirit. He is the best gift of all.

We must surrender ourselves to the Holy Spirit. Then He will give us the gifts He has for us. We must not make the mistake of the lazy servant. The Holy Spirit gave him a gift. But he did not improve it. Jesus said he was “ ‘useless’ ” (Matthew 25:30, ICB) and “ ‘worthless’ ” (NIrV). Let that be a lesson to all of us living in these last days.
