---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   18/05/2018
---

“The servant with the smallest gift was the only servant who did not improve his talent. This part of the picture story is a warning to all Christians who feel that their gifts are too small to be used to serve Jesus. That is no excuse. These believers would be very happy to do some big task for God. But they feel they do not have to do anything at all because they can do only small things. They are wrong. The Lord gives us His gifts to test us. The man in the picture story who failed to improve his one talent showed that he was not a loyal servant. What if God had given him five talents instead? That man would have done the same thing with the five talents that he did with the one talent: he would have buried them all in the ground. His wrong use of the one talent showed that he did not think the gifts from heaven were important at all.

“ ‘Whoever can be trusted with small things can also be trusted with big things’ ” (Luke 16:10, ERV). Often, we do not think the little things are important because they are small. But the little things of life really give us much of the training we really need. Really, the small things of life are just as important and necessary to the Christian life as the bigger things are.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 355, 356, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1.	People often have believed in the idea that humans could make a true heaven on earth. What were some of those ideas? Why have they all failed?`

`2.	Why does obedience to God make our faith grow stronger? How does that answer help us understand that “faith that does nothing is dead!” (James 2:26, ERV)? Think about all the trouble ahead of God’s people who “obey God’s commands” (Revelation 14:12, ERV). Why is it so important for us now to be getting ready for the trouble ahead?`

`3.	What warning does the picture story of the ten girls in Matthew 25:1–13 give us? All ten girls seemed the same on the outside. They looked and acted alike. So, how can we make sure that we are not lying to ourselves the same as the five foolish girls did?`
