---
title:  Feeling Wanted
date:   10/05/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: John 4

**Feeling Wanted**

One Friday afternoon, my wife, Kemba, received an invitation from her interim supervisor to meet on Zoom later in the day. The meeting took less than five minutes. The new supervisor told Kemba that her position was being dissolved and that Kemba’s entire team would be dispersed to other departments. Kemba’s nine-year career at a company where she had displayed stellar leadership and received multiple awards was over in less than five minutes.

As is often the case, there’s more to the story than meets the eye. The interim supervisor had been jealous of Kemba’s success for quite some time. She had often spoken ill of the accomplishments of Kemba’s team and had even claimed their work as her own. When the head of Kemba’s department left and this woman became the interim supervisor, my wife knew trouble was coming. Even though she anticipated it, being fired was devastating. Despite her excellent work, she was no longer wanted.

As we dealt with Kemba’s pain, we surrendered the situation completely to God. We trusted that if God allowed this door to close, He would open a better one. A few weeks later, a friend encouraged Kemba to apply to be the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) at the company where she had worked. She did, and after several interviews, she was chosen out of a pool of excellent candidates. They saw in her a unique mix of experience, skills, and temperament that they felt would be perfect for the CFO position. It felt so good to be wanted rather than merely tolerated.

In the biblical story we will focus on in this week’s study, Jesus makes a startling statement. He says that God is searching for a special group of people. Many claim to worship Him, but He’s looking for true worshipers, those who will worship Him in spirit and in truth (John 4:23, 24). It feels good to be wanted by God, doesn’t it? This week we’ll see that the way we worship God is of infinite importance to Him.

### inScribe

Write out John 4:16–26 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 23 and 24. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `