---
title:  The Center of Worship
date:   11/05/2025
---

### inGest

John 4 is one of the most powerful chapters in the Bible. We witness the extremes to which Jesus will go to take the gospel to the lost. It was culturally taboo for a Jewish man, let alone a rabbi (religious teacher), to speak to a Samaritan woman. Jews and Samaritans worshiped in separate temples, read different versions of the Torah, and had no social contact with each other. Samaritans had descended from Israelites who intermarried with pagan foreigners after the Assyrian captivity. They adopted many idolatrous practices as a result (2 Kings 17). The Samaritans had also tried to sabotage the rebuilding of Jerusalem’s walls and temple after the Babylonian captivity (Ezra 4; Neh. 4:1–3; 6:1–14). A “good” Jew would never be seen dealing with a Samaritan, and the animosity was decidedly mutual.

When Jesus asked the Samaritan woman by Jacob’s well for a drink, He broke several cultural rules, hence the woman’s response, “How is it that You, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman?” (John 4:9). Jesus responded by telling her, in effect, “You have no idea who’s asking you for water. If you did, you would ask Him for living water that quenches the spiritual thirst of the soul.” When the woman requested to drink of the water Jesus offered, He astonished her by revealing that He knew of her five previous husbands and her current boyfriend despite never having met her before (vv. 16–18). His deep insight into her personal life evidenced His prophetic ministry while also signaling her need for repentance.

The woman quickly changed the topic to one of the popular controversies of the day—where the people should worship God. In the days of Ezra, when the Samaritans were forbidden from helping to rebuild the temple in Jerusalem, they built a rival temple for themselves on Mount Gerizim. This furthered the animosity that persisted across the centuries, and it was this rivalry that the Samaritan woman referenced. When she mentioned the controversy (v. 20), Jesus responded by saying, in effect, “It’s not where we worship that matters but the spirit in which we worship and the truth at the heart of our worship (v. 23). God is looking for such worshipers. Because He is Spirit, those who worship Him must have His Holy Spirit and His same devotion to the truth as revealed by the Holy Spirit (v. 24).” The woman then pointed to the day the Messiah would reveal all things. Jesus answered, “I who speak to you am He” (v. 26). Jesus revealed that it is not where you worship but who you worship that matters.

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from John 4. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`In what ways did this Samaritan woman misunderstand the true object of worship?`

`How did Jesus challenge her beliefs about worship? Explain.`