---
title:  True Worship
date:   12/05/2025
---

### inTerpret

There’s so much to love about the story of the Samaritan woman at Jacob’s well. It’s difficult to capture it all with words. This narrative (John 4:1–26) is the longest conversation recorded in Scripture that Jesus had with anyone—longer than any with His disciples, longer than any with His family. This woman was also the first “outsider” in the book of John to whom Jesus revealed His messiahship, and she was the first believer in any of the Gospels to become an immediate evangelist, leaving her waterpot at the well in her haste to invite her entire city to come meet Jesus (vv. 28–30).

While the many wonderful “firsts” in this story are worthy of study, there may be nothing more critical for us to grasp than what Jesus said concerning worship. This quarter, we’ve looked at the role that God’s altars have played in Scripture. Since their inception in Eden, these altars have been places of devotion, consecration, and commitment to God. They were a prominent part of sanctuary worship in both the mobile wilderness tabernacle and the permanent temple built in Jerusalem. The place of worship and the altar’s role in worship were critical.

Fast-forward a few centuries, and Jesus began to shift the paradigm. He told the Samaritan woman that the time had come for a new way of thinking about worship. The hour had come for true worshipers to worship not just in a certain place, but much more importantly, in spirit and in truth. Ellen White noted that “Not by seeking a holy mountain or a sacred temple are men brought into communion with heaven. Religion is not to be confined to external forms and ceremonies. The religion that comes from God is the only religion that will lead to God. In order to serve Him aright, we must be born of the divine Spirit” (The Desire of Ages [1898], 189).

As He neared His death, Jesus promised His disciples that the Holy Spirit would come. “He will guide you into all truth; for He will not speak on His own authority, but whatever He hears He will speak; and He will tell you things to come” (John 16:13). To Jesus, true worship is impossible without the Holy Spirit, because 1. the Spirit supplies the motivation for worship, and 2. without His work on the heart, truth cannot be received or understood. God is seeking worshipers whose entire lives are an act of worship, who are led by the Spirit into truth, and who live the truth in the power of the Holy Spirit. This was the worship experience to which Jesus invited the Samaritan woman, and He extends the same invitation to us.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why are truth and the Spirit so important for true worship? Why did Jesus focus on these two aspects and not something else?`