---
title:  The Numbers
date:   14/05/2025
---

### inVite

In 2017 and 2018, the Seventh-day Adventist Church surveyed 63,756 church members worldwide, 17,970 of which were young adults ages 21–35. According to the data collected in this survey, Adventist young adults are struggling to spend daily time with God. Only 59% of the young adult members surveyed prayed at least once a day outside of mealtimes, and even fewer (41%) read the Bible daily. The survey also revealed that 28% of young adults study their Sabbath School lesson every day, and 29% study it more than once a week. Only 14% read the writings of Ellen G. White every day, and another 18% read them more than once a week (Galina Stele, Discipling, Nurturing, and Reclaiming [2020], 161, 162).

What does this snapshot tell you about the worship practices of young adult church members around the world? Admittedly, this kind of survey data cannot capture the intent and motivation of a believer’s heart. Even spending time every day in Bible study and prayer cannot guarantee that a person is truly worshiping God. While religious practices such as Bible study, prayer, giving, and witnessing are indicators of one’s commitment to God, they are not a perfect barometer of where someone might be in their relationship with God.

However, what the survey results do indicate with certainty is that most Adventist young adults are struggling to prioritize daily time with God. Most morning and evening worship altars are in disrepair. If the Word of God nourishes us spiritually the same way that bread nourishes us physically (Matt. 4:4), then most of us are trying to survive life while skipping a lot of meals. Jesus is the Bread of Life that came down from heaven (John 6:41). Bread eaten in a hurry causes indigestion and bread thrown in the corner gets moldy, but bread that’s eaten and enjoyed gives a person energy for the day. If we slow down and enjoy the Word of God every day, it will give us spiritual life.

Of course, the true heart of worship is not measured merely by the number of minutes spent reading the Bible or praying. It’s possible to spend time studying Scripture without ever experiencing a change of heart, which is why we must humble our hearts and seek the Holy Spirit. Without the Spirit, our worship times will be dry routines, but when the Spirit is present, our worship will connect us to God. Even our homes will become little sanctuaries where God comes down to dwell with us as we worship.

### Journal

`Meditate on John 4 again and look for Jesus.`

`Can you think of a time when Bible study was doing you no good because you lacked the Spirit?`

`How did you see Jesus differently or see Him again in this week’s study?`

`Prayer Response:`