---
title:  Why Are Bible Explanations Needed?
date:   02/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week's lesson
Luke 24:36–45; John 1:41; Acts 17:16–32; John 9:39–41; Nehemiah 8:1–3, 8.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Without faith no one can please God. Whoever comes to God must believe that he is real and that he rewards those who sincerely [with all their heart] try to find him” (Hebrews 11:6, ERV).

READING THE BIBLE includes explaining the Bible. How do we do that? What rules do we use? How do we explain the different styles of writing in the Bible? Are we reading a picture story? Are we reading a dream filled with word pictures that show us the future? Or are we reading a story that tells us about history? The answers to these questions also are part of explaining what the Bible says.

At times, some people use the Bible to tell them what to do. They simply open the Bible anywhere and pick a verse on the page that they hope will give them good advice. But this plan can lead people to very strange and wrong ideas. Here is an example: a husband leaves his wife for another woman. The wife opens the Bible to Genesis and reads: “ ‘I will make you and the woman hate each other’ ” (Genesis 3:15, NIrV). After the wife reads this verse, she feels happy. She believes the Bible is telling her that her husband’s feelings for this other woman will not last!

For sure, we need to understand what a verse says and means. If we do not, then the verse can become an excuse for us to do whatever we want. So, it is very important for us to read the Bible carefully. We must be careful to explain the Bible correctly too.

_Some people simply open the Bible anywhere and pick a verse on the page that they hope will give them good advice. But this can lead to very strange and wrong ideas._
