---
title:  THE WAY WE READ THE BIBLE
date:   03/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the experience that Jesus’ followers had in Luke 24:36–45. Jesus’ followers knew the Bible well. What kept them from seeing its true meaning even after the things happened that Jesus told them about?`

No one comes to the Bible with an empty mind. Every Bible reader and student comes to the Bible with personal experience and history. These things will cause us to think a certain way about the Bible. Jesus’ followers also had their own ideas about who the Savior was and what He was meant to do. Their ideas came from the hopes about the Savior that people had at that time. So, the ideas that Jesus’ followers had about the Savior made them blind to truth. These ideas kept them from understanding what the Bible says about the Savior. That is why Jesus’ followers so often did not understand Jesus, His life, death, and resurrection or His waking up from the dead.

We all have beliefs about this life and God. Sometimes our beliefs can cause us to understand the Bible in the wrong way. Here is an example. Let us say that someone does not believe that miracles are possible. He or she does not believe that God works in any special way to save His people. So, this person will not believe in the Bible’s miracles. He or she will not read and understand the Bible as a true report of God’s acts in history. This person will explain the Bible in a very different way from someone who accepts that miracles are real.

No one who explains the Bible can separate fully from his or her past, experience, ideas, and thoughts. So, when we study the Bible, we must be aware that we come to God’s Word with our own thoughts about life and God. Sometimes, our own thoughts, ideas, and experience can get in the way of our understanding the Bible. But there is good news for us. The Holy Spirit can correct our limited views and thoughts. He can help us to read the Bible with an open mind and an honest heart. Again and again, the Bible shows us that people with very different pasts can understand the Bible. The Holy Spirit makes this possible. God’s Spirit leads us “into all truth” (John 16:13, KJV).

`What are some of your thoughts and ideas about life? How can you surrender all these things to God and let the Holy Spirit give you ideas that agree with Bible teachings?`

_Jesus’ followers had ideas about the Savior that made them blind to truth. That is why Jesus’ followers so often did not understand Jesus._
