---
title:  THE BIBLE AND ITS LANGUAGES
date:   04/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The Bible writers wrote in very old languages. They wrote the Old Testament mostly in Hebrew, with a few parts in the Aramaic language. The New Testament writers wrote in a language named Koine Greek. Most people alive today do not speak and read these old languages. So, that is why the Bible is written for us in different modern languages.

Every Bible version includes the work of explanation. Some words in one language do not have an exact match in another language. So, it takes a lot of skill to carefully write a Bible version. The work of writing the Bible in a new language and making it clear is named “hermeneutics.”

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:10; 1 Corinthians 14:26; John 1:41; John 9:7; Acts 9:36; and Luke 24:27. All these verses show us examples of writing the Bible in a new language and then making its meaning clear. In Luke 24:27, even Jesus must explain the Bible’s meaning to His followers. What does this work tell us about why explanation is an important part of our reading and understanding the Bible?`

The word “hermeneutics,” as we saw, means to write the Bible in a new language and to explain it clearly. The word “hermeneutics” comes from the Greek word “hermeneuo.” “Hermeneuo” comes from the name of the Greek god Hermes. Hermes was the messenger of the Greek gods. So, Hermes’s job was to explain the gods’ messages to the people.

There are many good versions of the Bible for us to read. The people who made these versions did a good job of showing us the Bible’s meaning. So, we do not need to know Hebrew, Greek, or Aramaic to be able to understand the most important truths shown in the Bible. But with any good Bible version, we must have clear explanations of the verses too. That is the whole reason for hermeneutics, which includes making a good version and clear explanations of the Bible. Hermeneutics help to show us the correct meaning of the Bible. Hermeneutics also help us to know how to live Bible truth now. As Luke 24:27 shows us, Jesus made Bible truth clear for His followers. Make a picture in your mind of having Jesus as your own Teacher! Today, He gives us His Holy Spirit to help us to understand the Bible.

`Why is it important to study the Bible with prayer? Why is it also important to obey its teachings?`

_Make a picture in your mind of having Jesus as your own Teacher!_
