---
title:  THE BIBLE AND THE WAY OF LIFE AROUND US
date:   05/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Acts 17:16–32. In Acts 17, Paul shares the Good News with people from a different culture or way of life: the Greeks. How do the different ways of life around us help us to decide what is important?`

It can be helpful to know about Near Eastern culture or ways of life. This information can help us to understand the Bible better. Here is one way: “In Hebrew culture, a person was responsible for the evil that he did not do but that he let happen. So, that is why Bible writers often say that God is responsible for things that He did not do but that He let happen. One example is Pharaoh’s heart. God allows Pharaoh’s heart to grow stubborn.”—“Methods of Bible Study,” section 4.P. at www.adventistbiblicalresearch.org/materials/bible-interpretation-hermeneutics/methods-bible-study, adapted.

Culture also causes us to ask some important questions about how we read and explain the Bible. Does the Bible only have meaning for the people living in the culture when it was written? Or does God’s message have meaning for all humans? What happens if someone’s experience of culture becomes the test or rule for how we decide what the Bible says?

In Acts 17:26, Paul gives an interesting view about life that people often miss when they read this verse. Paul says that God made all the people on the earth from one man. Yes, we all come from different cultures. We follow different ways of life. But we all come from the same person, Adam. Adam is the father of us all. So, that makes us all one, even if we are different from each other in many ways. God is the One who made all humans. Sin is not limited to one culture. All humans need to be saved too. We all need God’s gift of everlasting life. This gift comes to us from Jesus, who died for us.

Yes, God speaks to different people living at different times in the Bible. At the same time, His messages are for people of all different times in history. Bible truth is not limited only to the people who were alive when the Bible was written. Think about algebra. Algebra is a special form of math. Someone invented algebra around a.d. 800 in Baghdad. Does this mean that algebra’s rules and its truths are limited only to that time and place? Of course not. The same is true for God’s Word, the Bible. Yes, the Bible was written long ago in cultures very different from ours today. But Bible truth is as important today as it was when it was first written.

_“God allows Pharaoh’s heart to grow stubborn.”_
