---
title:  WHAT SIN HAS DONE TO OUR HEARTS
date:   06/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read John 9:39–41 and John 12:42, 43. What stopped the people in these verses from accepting Bible truth? What warning is there for us in their stories?`

It is easy for us to not like the religious leaders who did not accept Jesus. Yes, the leaders had powerful proof that Jesus was the Son of God. But the leaders rejected Jesus anyway. We need to be careful that we do not behave the same way about the Bible.

Yes, sin changed our hearts. It pulls us away from God. Sin changes every part of our lives. Sin also changes the way we understand the Bible and explain it. That is because sin has hurt our minds and thoughts. So, our minds and thoughts become closed to God’s truth. Sin makes our thoughts evil. Sin fills our hearts and minds with pride and doubt. Then we lie. We are not close to God and each other. We disobey God’s law. So, we must not be filled with pride.

Pride causes people to put human thinking above Bible truth. That is because they let human thinking decide all truth, including Bible truth. When we think this way, we take away the power of God’s Word, the Bible.

Some people listen only to ideas that they like, even if these ideas go against God’s truth in the Bible. This is the same as lying to ourselves. God warns us about the dangers of lying to ourselves (Revelation 3:17). Sin and lying to ourselves also cause doubt to grow in our hearts. Then we will not believe God’s Word. When we start to doubt God’s Word, we never will be sure about truth. That is because the person who doubts makes himself or herself a judge. Then he or she decides which parts of the Bible are true. When that happens, we are in a lot of danger.

So, how should we read and explain the Bible? We should come to the Bible with hearts that are not filled with pride. We should surrender our minds to God. We should not look for things in the Bible to doubt or complain about. Pride, lying to ourselves, and doubt turn our hearts away from God. Then we will not want to obey Him.

`Have you ever fought against Bible truth? That is, has the Bible shown you to do something, but you wanted to do something else? What happened? What did you learn from this experience?`

_When we start to doubt God’s Word, we never will be sure about the truth._
