---
title:  WHY WE NEED A CLEAR UNDERSTANDING OF BIBLE TRUTH
date:   07/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 8:1–3, 8. Why do each of us need a clear understanding of the Bible? Why is that so important for us as a church too?`

What is the most important question in the Bible? How are we saved? If we do not know how we are saved, how can we have any hope? As Jesus Himself said, what good is it if we get everything this life has to offer but we lose our everlasting life (Matthew 16:26)?

So, we must have a clear understanding about God’s plan to save us. If we explain the Bible in the wrong way, then, for sure, we will believe false ideas. And not just about God’s saving plan. We will believe false ideas about everything else the Bible teaches. Even Jesus’ followers were not safe from this problem. In their day, many false teachings came into the church. Teachers built these false teachings on false explanations about the Bible.

`Read 2 Peter 3:15, 16. What do these verses tell us about why a correct understanding of the Bible is important?`

We want to live by the Bible and only the Bible. So, it is very important how we choose to explain the Bible. We do not allow other people or things to explain the Bible for us. We do not depend on tradition, or the way things have been done in the past. We do not depend on church leaders. We have only the Bible to tell us what we believe and how we live. So, that is why it is so important for us to have a correct understanding of the Bible.

Without a correct understanding of the Bible, we cannot have agreement in our teachings or a healthy church. Our hearts and our work for God will not be joined together as one in Jesus. We have a message to give to everyone on earth. So, we must not be confused about what this message means. If we are confused, how can we expect to share that message with the people who need to hear it?

`Read the Three Angels’ Messages in Revelation 14:6–12. Why is a correct understanding of these messages so important to the work that God gave our church to do?`

_We have a message to give to everyone on earth. So, we must not be confused about what this message means._
