---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   08/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**:

Read Ellen G. White, “What to Do With Doubt,” pages 105–113, in Steps to Christ, and from the document “Methods of Bible Study,” section 1: “Bible Study: Presuppositions, Principles, and Methods”, section 2: “Presuppositions Arising From the Claims of Scripture”, and section 3: “Principles for Approaching the Interpretation of Scripture.” (Methods of Bible Study can be found at www.adventistbiblicalresearch.org/materials/bible-interpretation-hermeneutics/methods-bible-study.)

“When you study the Bible, let go of your personal ideas and beliefs about what the Bible should say. You will not discover the truth if you study the Bible only to prove your own ideas right. Lay your own ideas aside. With no pride in your heart, sit at Jesus’ feet and learn from Him. Then you can study the Bible to see what God wants to say to you. You will grow in understanding too. Some people think they are too wise to study the Bible. Jesus says to them, You must have a heart with no pride if you want to learn how to be saved.

“Do not let old beliefs and ideas decide what you believe about the Bible. Let your mind be free from these thoughts. Read the Bible with prayer. Study it carefully. If the Holy Spirit shows you that your old ideas are wrong, then do not try to make the Bible agree with your ideas. Make your ideas agree with the Bible. Do not let your old beliefs or practices from the past control your understanding. Open your mind to see wonderful things in God’s law. Find out what is written there. Then stand firm on the everlasting Rock, who is Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, Messages to Young People, page 260, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. How do our views about life, our education, and our culture, or the way we live, control what we think about the Bible? Why must we be aware of how these things control what we believe about the Bible?`

`2. What does sin do to us that causes us to not understand the Bible? Let us say that we want to do something that the Bible says is wrong. How will that sin cause us to read and understand the Bible in the wrong way?`

`3. How can an understanding of Bible times help us better understand the Bible? Give some examples.`

_“With no pride in your heart, sit at Jesus’ feet and learn from Him.”_
