---
title:  Searching for Control
date:  26/07/2025
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 7–10

**Searching for Control**

Who or what do you turn to when you’re in trouble? Perhaps there’s someone you know you can rely on when you’re in need, whether it be for food, money, shelter, or just support. You may not ask for assistance very often, but you know if you’re ever struggling, there’s somewhere you can go for help. Some people rely on prestigious friends or relatives to help them get ahead in life, advance their careers, or shield them from the consequences of their actions.

What would you do if you didn’t have anyone to help you when you were in trouble? When difficulties multiply and pressure builds, people often create their own “solutions.” Depending on the person and the specific need, when people feel like their lives are out of their control, they may turn to social media, pornography, substance abuse, or toxic relationships, to name a few.

People in the ancient world also faced difficulties that were beyond their control. In Egypt, a recurring question was, “Will the Nile River provide the right amount of water this year to have a good harvest?” The Nile River, one of the most important rivers in the ancient world, provided irrigation for the whole country and was one key to the greatness of Egyptian civilization. However, the river could prove temperamental. The floodwaters might rise too high in the Nile valley, and then they wouldn’t be able to grow crops. Too little water meant a drought, and again, they wouldn’t have food to eat. The Egyptians didn’t have many effective options for controlling the fickle river, so they turned to their gods for help. It wasn’t just the Nile; many other things in nature needed controlling. Believing in gods who could regulate these out-of-control forces of nature was a foundational cultural practice in that time—one that brought the Egyptians into direct confrontation with the God of the Hebrews. The outcome was, of course, disastrous for the Egyptian deities.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 7:1–5 from the translation of your choice. You may also write an outline of each plague and its significance as recorded in Exodus 7–10.

` `