---
title:  Snakes Alive!
date:  27/07/2025
---

#### inGest

The plagues of Egypt are one of the most well-known events in the Bible. They were epic in nature, with destruction escalating as each one fell. To understand the reason for this devastation, it’s important to examine how the plagues represent a contest between the God of Israel and the Egyptian gods.

Pharaoh’s refusal to allow the Hebrews to take a three-day journey into the desert to worship God set the stage for the ten plagues. Pharaoh said, “Who is the Lord, that I should obey His voice to let Israel go? I do not know the Lord, nor will I let Israel go” (Exod. 5:2). Pharaoh made it clear he didn’t believe that the God of the Hebrews was anyone he should obey.

In response, God told Moses, “Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For with a strong hand he will let them go, and with a strong hand he will drive them out of his land” (6:1). The competition began with Aaron’s rod. God told Moses that when Pharaoh asked to see a miracle, Aaron was to throw his rod down and watch as it became a snake (7:8). However, when Aaron did this, Pharaoh’s sorcerers did the exact same thing (v. 11). God countered by having Aaron’s snake swallow the magicians’ snakes. What this opening encounter makes clear is that this was a showdown between the gods of Egypt and the God of the Hebrews. The Egyptian magicians were able to imitate the supernatural power of God, leaving the people to decide for themselves who the true God is. This also explains why Pharaoh hardened his heart to Moses’ command.

The snake fight was just the beginning. The plagues that followed were a systematic undoing of the entire Egyptian pantheon. While they’re often referred to as plagues, the Hebrew text refers to them as signs and wonders (v. 3). This emphasizes that a supernatural power was behind the plagues. They were not mere accidents of nature.

The narrative is organized carefully. The first nine plagues are grouped together in sets of three and are set apart from the tenth plague. Each set begins with Moses meeting Pharaoh early in the morning and delivering a warning message (7:15; 8:20; 9:13), and then the third plague in each set occurs with no warning at all.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 7–10. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Do you like snakes? Why do you think most people dislike them?`

`Have you ever witnessed supernatural activity by demonic powers? What was that experience like?`