---
title:  The Showdown Begins
date:  28/07/2025
---

#### inTerpret

The plagues were an amazing and coordinated attack against the Egyptian gods. Egypt’s economic power came from the Nile River, so God began His demonstration there, turning it into blood. However, Pharaoh’s magicians mimicked this feat, and again, Pharaoh’s heart grew hard. Seven days later, the next sign occurred, and the land was covered with frogs. Again, Egypt’s magicians performed the same sign (Exod. 8:7). Pharaoh was troubled by the overabundant frogs, so he asked Moses to get rid of them. Moses agreed, but he had Pharaoh set the time so he would know it was God’s power that reversed the plague (vv. 9, 10). However, when the frogs disappeared, Pharaoh again hardened his heart. A third plague of lice then fell unannounced on the land, and this time Pharaoh’s magicians were unable to replicate the plague. We might expect Pharaoh’s reaction to be different because of this. His magicians confessed that it was the “finger of God” (v. 19), but his habit of resisting God had been strengthened over time. Pharaoh was growing more and more stubborn.

God sent the fourth plague, this time a type of swarming fly. To continue to demonstrate His superiority over Pharaoh’s gods, He shielded the land of Goshen where the Israelites lived. The next plagues came in rapid succession, with Pharaoh yielding and then retracting his permission again and again. Pharaoh’s heart became increasingly resistant with each plague.

God was using Pharaoh’s stubbornness to help the Israelites more clearly see His power. When Moses and Aaron warned Pharaoh of the coming eighth plague of locusts, Pharaoh’s servants urged him to comply with the brothers’ requests. They were beginning to trust Moses’ words. Because of this pressure, Pharaoh agreed to let only the men go while the women and children stayed behind. Moses insisted that _all_ the people be allowed to go, Pharaoh refused, and the plague of locusts began. Again, Pharaoh confessed his sin to Moses because of the destruction caused by the locusts, and Moses asked God to stop the plague. Again, Pharaoh’s heart hardened and he refused to let the people go. Then one last unannounced plague fell, the ninth plague of darkness, which covered the land for three days. At this, Pharaoh gave in further, offering to allow all the people to go so long as they left all animals behind. Moses again refused, stating that the animals would be needed for sacrifices when they worshiped the Lord. With that, one last time, Pharaoh’s heart hardened, and he cast Moses from his presence, announcing that he would never again see his face.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Have you ever fought against God? How did the situation resolve?`