---
title:  God’s Goodness
date:  30/07/2025
---

#### inVite

The plagues Moses performed through God’s power were designed to convince people of the Lord’s true character, yet today, some people question God’s love and kindness when they read about the destruction caused by these plagues. Some people view the plagues as only an act of vengeance. However, the same people often criticize God for allowing evil to continue for too long. When God allows injustice to continue, people blame Him for not taking action quickly enough. When God intervenes to deliver, people blame Him for doing too much. For the Israelites, the plagues were acts of mercy to deliver them from the grip of tyranny. For the Egyptians, the plagues were invitations to repent from their wickedness and acknowledge the sovereignty of God.

Throughout the plagues, God showed mercy to the Egyptians and provided them every possible opportunity for repentance. For instance, about twenty-four hours before sending the seventh plague, Moses warned Pharaoh’s servants about the coming hail so that those who believed would have sufficient time to bring their servants and their livestock under shelter (Exod. 9:18–21). Before the tenth and most terrible plague fell, God gave them one final opportunity to repent and avoid the worst judgment of all. The ninth plague was three days of darkness (10:21–23), which gave Pharaoh a sort of “time out” to reflect on his recent choices and their consequences. The plagues ultimately demonstrated that there was no change of heart.

A sign that draws one person may repel another. When we read the story of Jesus in the New Testament Gospels, we find Christ also using signs and miracles as a demonstration of His power. He performed so many miracles that people lost count (John 21:25). Jesus’ miracles included turning water into wine (2:1–12), driving out demons (Mark 1:21–28), healing leprosy (Luke 17:12–19), healing the lame and paralyzed (Matt. 9:1–8), calming storms (Luke 8:22–25), feeding the multitudes (Matt. 14:13–21), and raising the dead (John 11:38–44). Yet the Pharisees attributed these miracles to the power of Satan (Matt. 12:24)! Can you believe that?

People’s resistance to Jesus manifesting His power against the demonic forces when He was on earth was similar to the Egyptians’ reactions to God’s power being manifested in judgment against the demonic powers of Egypt. No matter what signs and wonders are performed, people still have to choose whether to believe in the power of God.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 7–10 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`In what other instances do you see God’s mercy mixed with His judgments?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Why do miracles create such mixed reactions?`

`Prayer Response:`