---
title:  The Certainty Of Christ’s Return
date:  23/12/2018
---

`John 14:1-3 is the best-known promise of Jesus’ second coming. What does this promise tell you about the kind of life the redeemed will live on the new earth?`

Early Christians considered Christ’s return the “blessed hope” (Titus 2:13, NKJV). They expected all the prophecies and promises of Scripture to be fulfilled at the Second Advent, for it is the very goal of the Christian pilgrimage. All who love Christ look forward to the day they will be able to share face-to-face fellowship with Him. His words in those verses suggest a closeness and intimacy that we will share, not only with Jesus but with each other, as well.

Christians believe in this promise because the Bible assures us of its fulfillment. We have this assurance because we believe in the words of Jesus, “I will come again” (John 14:3, NKJV). Just as Christ’s first coming was prophesied, so His second coming also is foretold, even in the Old Testament. Before the Flood, God told the patriarch Enoch that the Messiah’s coming in glory would put an end to sin. He prophesied, “ ‘Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands of His saints, to execute judgment on all, to convict all who are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds which they have committed in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against Him’ ” (Jude 14, 15, NKJV).

A thousand years before Jesus came to this earth, King David also prophesied of the Messiah’s coming to gather God’s people together. “Our God shall come, and shall not keep silent; a fire shall devour before Him, and it shall be very tempestuous all around Him. He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that He may judge His people: ‘Gather My saints together to Me, those who have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice’ ” (Ps. 50:3-5, NKJV).

The second coming of Jesus is linked closely to His first advent. The prophecies that predicted His birth and ministry (for example, Gen. 3:15; Mic. 5:2; Isa. 11:1; Dan. 9:25, 26) are the foundation for our hope and trust in the promises about His second coming. Christ “has appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself. . . . So Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many. To those who eagerly wait for Him He will appear a second time, apart from sin, for salvation” (Heb. 9:26, 28, NKJV).

`What are ways that you can even now draw hope and comfort from the promise of the Second Coming?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Now is the time to prepare for the coming of our Lord. Readiness to meet Him cannot be attained in a moment’s time. Preparatory to that solemn scene there must be vigilant waiting and watching, combined with earnest work. So God’s children glorify Him. Amid the busy scenes of life their voices will be heard speaking words of encouragement, faith, and hope. All they have and are is consecrated to the Master’s service.—_God’s Amazing Grace_, p. 353.

In the contemplation of Christ we linger on the shore of a love that is measureless. We endeavor to tell of this love, and language fails us. We consider His life on earth, His sacrifice for us, His work in heaven as our advocate, and the mansions He is preparing for those who love Him, and we can only exclaim, O the height and depth of the love of Christ! “Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that He loved us, and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins.” “Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God.” 1 John 4:10; 3:1. 

In every true disciple this love, like sacred fire, burns on the altar of the heart. It was on the earth that the love of God was revealed through Christ. It is on the earth that His children are to reflect this love through blameless lives. Thus sinners will be led to the cross to behold the Lamb of God.—_The Acts of the Apostles_, pp. 333, 334.

The thrilling truth that has been sounding in our ears for many years, “The Lord is at hand; be ye also ready,” is no less the truth today than when we first heard the message. The dearest interests of the church and people of God, and the destiny of an impenitent and ungodly world, for time and for eternity, are here involved. We are all judgment bound. “The Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the Archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first: then we which are alive and remain [unto the coming of the Lord] shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord.” . . .  

These momentous events are nigh at hand, yet many who profess to believe the truth are asleep. . . . It is only to those who are waiting in hope and faith that Christ will appear, without sin unto salvation. Many have the theory of the truth who know not the power of godliness. If the word of God dwelt in the heart, it would control the life. Faith, purity, and conformity to the will of God would testify to its sanctifying power.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 5, pp. 14, 15. 