---
title:  The Promise Of Restoration
date:  24/12/2018
---

`Read Isaiah 11:1-10. What promise is given to Israel, and what does it say about the eternal dwelling place of the redeemed?`

The Bible begins with the story of the Creation of the earth (Genesis 1, 2). It is a description of a beautiful and harmonious world entrusted to our first parents, Adam and Eve. A perfect world and home for the human race, whom God had created. The Bible’s last two chapters also speak of God’s creating a perfect and harmonious world for redeemed humanity (Revelation 21, 22), but this time it is more accurate to say re-creation, the restoration of the earth from the ravages of sin.

In many places the Bible declares that this eternal home of the redeemed will be a real place, not an imagined fantasy or dream. The redeemed will be able to see, hear, smell, touch, and feel a new experience, a new life. The prophecy of Isaiah 11 is a beautiful passage foretelling the coming of the Messiah, who will create a new era. He will end all violence and usher in an eternal peace. The reign of God on this new earth will establish universal harmony.

`Read Revelation 21:1-5. What will disappear forever as a result of this new harmony?`

Ellen White wrote of what awaits the redeemed: “As the years of eternity roll, they will bring richer and more glorious revelations of God and of Christ. As knowledge is progressive, so will love, reverence, and happiness increase. The more men learn of God, the greater will be their admiration of His character. As Jesus opens before them the riches of redemption and the amazing achievements in the great controversy with Satan, the hearts of the ransomed beat with a stronger devotion, and they sweep the harps of gold with a firmer hand: and ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands of voices unite to swell the mighty chorus of praise.”—Ellen G. White, The Story of Redemption, pp. 432, 433.

`What are ways that we can understand even now the character of God? How does living in harmony and unity with others reveal something about the character and nature of God?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

If we could have but one view of the celestial city, we would never wish to dwell on earth again. There are beautiful landscapes on earth, and I enjoy all these prospects of loveliness in nature. I associate them with the Creator. But I know that if I love God, and keep His commandments, there is a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory reserved in Heaven for me. . . .

The saints will have crowns of glory upon their heads, and harps of gold in their hands. They will play upon the golden harp, and sing redeeming love, and make melody unto God. Their former trials and suffering in this world will be forgotten and lost amid the glories of the New Earth. . . .

 . . . Let your imagination picture the home of the saved, and remember that it will be more glorious than your brightest imagination can portray. 

Human language is inadequate to describe the reward of the righteous. It will be known only to those who behold it.—_Maranatha_, p. 355. 

“And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away.” Revelation 21:1. The fire that consumes the wicked purifies the earth. Every trace of the curse is swept away. No eternally burning hell will keep before the ransomed the fearful consequences of sin. One reminder alone remains: our Redeemer will ever bear the marks of His crucifixion. Upon His wounded head, His hands and feet, are the only traces of the cruel work that sin has wrought.—_The Story of Redemption_, p. 430.

To enter heaven, a man must have Christ formed within, the hope of glory, and take heaven with him. The Lord Jesus alone can fashion and change the character. For want of patience, kindness, forbearance, unselfishness, and love, the revealings of the traits flash forth involuntarily when off guard, and unchristian words, unchristlikeness of character burst forth sometimes to the ruin of the soul.—_Fundamentals of Christian Education_, p. 279.

Oh, what happiness we shall enjoy, gathered round about the throne, clothed in the white robes of the righteousness of Christ. No more sorrow, no more separation, but to dwell in peace, to dwell in happiness, to dwell in glory through the ceaseless ages of eternity. What a happy, happy company we may be! 

Now let us consider the same privileges here. When we consider the infinite sacrifice of our Saviour that we might become children of God and members of the royal family, when we consider this exaltation, when we consider that all these privileges will be ours and may be ours every day, that we may have the privileges which belong to the sons and daughters of God, how can any one of us have any word of complaint? How can anyone utter one word of murmuring? How can it dwell in our hearts?—_This Day With God_, p. 333.