---
title:  Resurrection And Restored Relationships
date:  25/12/2018
---

From the earliest days of the church the promise of Christ’s return has, perhaps more than anything else, sustained the hearts of God’s faithful people, especially during trials. Whatever their frightful struggles, whatever their inconsolable sorrows and pain, they had the hope of Christ’s return and all the wonderful promises the Second Advent contains.

`Read 1 Thessalonians 4:13-18. What promises are included in this passage? What does this say about the hope of restored relationships?`

Christ’s second coming will affect all humanity in profound ways. An important aspect of the establishment of God’s kingdom is the gathering of the elect. “ ‘And He will send His angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together His elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other’ ” (Matt. 24:31, NKJV). At the moment of this gathering, the righteous dead will be resurrected and receive immortality (1 Cor. 15:52, 53). “The dead in Christ will rise first” (1 Thess. 4:16, NKJV). This is the moment we all have been waiting for. The resurrected ones will reunite with those who have been longing for their presence and love. This is how Paul exults at this event: “ ‘O Death, where is your sting? O Hades, where is your victory?’ ” (1 Cor. 15:55, NKJV).

It is not the diseased, aged, disfigured bodies that went down into the grave that come up in the resurrection, but new, immortal, perfect bodies, no longer marked by the sin that caused their decay. The resurrected saints experience the completion of Christ’s work of restoration, reflecting the perfect image of God intended at Creation (Gen. 1:26, 1 Cor. 15:46-49).

At the moment of Jesus’ second advent, when the redeemed dead are resurrected, the righteous alive on earth will be changed and also be given new, perfect bodies. “For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality” (1 Cor. 15:53, NKJV). So, these two groups of redeemed, the resurrected and transformed righteous, “shall be caught up together .  .  . in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And thus we shall always be with the Lord” (1 Thess. 4:17, NKJV).

`In our scientific age, even some Christians try to find a natural explanation for everything, including “miracles.” What does the promise of the resurrection teach us about why only the supernatural acts of God can save us?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The trumpet has not yet sounded. Those who have gone down into the grave have not yet cried, “O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?” (1 Corinthians 15:55). The righteous dead have not yet been caught up with the living saints to meet their Lord in the air. But the time is near when the words spoken by the apostle Paul will have their fulfillment, “For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first: then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord” (1 Thessalonians 4:16-18).  . . .

This earth is the place of preparation for heaven. The time spent here is the Christian’s winter. Here the chilly winds of affliction blow upon us, and the waves of trouble roll against us. But in the near future, when Christ comes, sorrow and sighing will be forever ended. Then will be the Christian’s summer. All trials will be over, and there will be no more sickness or death. “God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away” (Revelation 21:4).—_The Upward Look_, p. 311. 

We are to bring brightness and blessing into the lives of others. The Lord has chosen us as channels through which to communicate His blessings. . . . 

Love, courtesy, self-sacrifice—these are never lost. When God’s chosen ones are changed from mortality to immortality, their words and deeds of goodness will be made manifest, and will be preserved through the eternal ages. No act of unselfish service, however small or simple, is ever lost. Through the merits of Christ’s imputed righteousness, the fragrance of such words and deeds is forever preserved.—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 232. 

All come forth from their graves the same in stature as when they entered the tomb. Adam, who stands among the risen throng, is of lofty height and majestic form, in stature but little below the Son of God. He presents a marked contrast to the people of later generations; in this one respect is shown the great degeneracy of the race. But all arise with the freshness and vigor of eternal youth. In the beginning, man was created in the likeness of God, not only in character, but in form and feature. Sin defaced and almost obliterated the divine image; but Christ came to restore that which had been lost. He will change our vile bodies and fashion them like unto His glorious body. The mortal, corruptible form, devoid of comeliness, once polluted with sin, becomes perfect, beautiful, and immortal. All blemishes and deformities are left in the grave.—_The Great Controversy_, pp. 644, 645.