---
title:  A New Earth For The Redeemed
date:  26/12/2018
---

“ ‘For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth; and the former shall not be remembered or come to mind’ ” (Isa. 65:17, NKJV). Both Isaiah and John (Rev. 21:1) saw in vision the promised new earth.

`Consider John’s description of the fabulous city of the redeemed, the New Jerusalem, in Revelation 21:2, 9-27. What do these verses imply about the unity and harmony that will exist in this city?`

`Read Revelation 22:1-5. The river of life that flows from the throne of God with the tree of life that spans it are two other important features of the new city. What will be their purpose on the new earth?`

The tree of life, which Adam lost access to through his transgression (Gen. 3:22-24), will be restored by Christ in the New Jerusalem. Access to this tree is one of the promises to those who overcome (Rev. 2:7). Its bearing twelve kinds of fruit, a new kind each month (Rev. 22:2), might possibly suggest a reason that in the new earth “ ‘from one New Moon to another, and from one Sabbath to another, all flesh shall come to worship before Me, says the Lord’ ” (Isa. 66:23, NKJV). The reference to the “healing of the nations” also underscores God’s intent to remove all barriers between people and to restore humanity to its original purpose: to restore all people, tribes, and nations into one undivided family, living in harmony and peace, united to give glory to God.

“ ‘The healing of the nations’ refers figuratively to the removal of all national and linguistic barriers and separation. . . . The leaves of the tree of life heal the breaches between nations. The nations are no longer ‘gentiles’ but are united into one family as the true people of God ([compare] Rev. 21:24-26). What Micah anticipated centuries earlier is now being fulfilled: ‘Nation will not lift up sword against nation, and never again will they train for war. Each of them will sit under his vine and under his fig tree, with no one to make them afraid’ (Mic. 4:3-4; [compare] Isa. 2:4). There on the banks of the river of life the redeemed will ‘invite his neighbor to sit’ (Zech. [3:]10) with him under the tree of life. The curing quality of the leaves of the tree will heal all wounds—racial, ethnic, tribal, or linguistic—that have torn and divided humanity for ages.”—Ranko Stefanovic, Revelation of Jesus Christ: Commentary on the Book of Revelation, p. 593.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In the Bible the inheritance of the saved is called a country. (Hebrews 11:14-16.) There the great Shepherd leads His flock to fountains of living waters. The tree of life yields its fruit every month, and the leaves of the tree are for the service of the nations. There are ever-flowing streams, clear as crystal, and beside them waving trees cast their shadows upon the paths prepared for the ransomed of the Lord. There the wide-spreading plains swell into hills of beauty, and the mountains of God rear their lofty summits. On those peaceful plains, beside those living streams, God’s people, so long pilgrims and wanderers, shall find a home.—_The Story of Redemption_, p. 431.

We saw the tree of life and the throne of God. Out of the throne came a pure river of water, and on either side of the river was the tree of life. On one side of the river was a trunk of a tree, and a trunk on the other side of the river, both of pure, transparent gold. At first I thought I saw two trees. I looked again, and saw that they were united at the top in one tree. So it was the tree of life on either side of the river of life. Its branches bowed to the place where we stood, and the fruit was glorious; it looked like gold mixed with silver.  

We all went under the tree and sat down to look at the glory of the place. . . . We tried to call up our greatest trials, but they looked so small compared with the far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory that surrounded us that we could not speak them out, and we all cried out, “Alleluia, heaven is cheap enough!” and we touched our glorious harps and made heaven’s arches ring.—_Early Writings_, p. 17.

The ability to enjoy the riches of glory will be developed in proportion to the desire we have for these riches. How shall an appreciation of God and heavenly things be developed unless it is in this life? If the claims and cares of the world are allowed to engross all our time and attention, our spiritual powers weaken and die because they are not exercised.—_This Day With God_, p. 87. 

The redeemed saints, who have loved God and kept His commandments here, will enter in through the gates of the city, and have right to the tree of life. They will eat freely of it as our first parents did before their fall. The leaves of that immortal widespread tree will be for the healing of the nations. All their woes will then be gone. Sickness, sorrow, and death they will never again feel, for the leaves of the tree of life have healed them. Jesus will then see of the travail of His soul and be satisfied, when the redeemed, who have been subject to sorrow, toil, and afflictions, who have groaned beneath the curse, are gathered up around that tree of life to eat of its immortal fruit, that our first parents forfeited all right to, by breaking God’s commands. There will be no danger of their ever losing right to the tree of life again, for he that tempted our first parents to sin will be destroyed by the second death.—_Maranatha, _p. 325.