---
title:  Further Thought
date:  28/12/2018
---

Ellen G. White, “ ‘Behold, I Come Quickly,’ ” pp. 355-359, in Counsels for the Church. Read the articles “Resurrection,” pp. 1082-1084, and “Heaven and New Earth,” pp. 863, 864, in The Ellen G. White Encyclopedia.

“The resurrection and ascension of our Lord is a sure evidence of the triumph of the saints of God over death and the grave, and a pledge that heaven is open to those who wash their robes of character and make them white in the blood of the Lamb. Jesus ascended to the Father as a representative of the human race, and God will bring those who reflect His image to behold and share with Him His glory.

“There are homes for the pilgrims of earth. There are robes for the righteous, with crowns of glory and palms of victory. All that has perplexed us in the providences of God will in the world to come be made plain. The things hard to be understood will then find explanation. The mysteries of grace will unfold before us. Where our finite minds discovered only confusion and broken promises, we shall see the most perfect and beautiful harmony. We shall know that infinite love ordered the experiences that seemed most trying. As we realize the tender care of Him who makes all things work together for our good, we shall rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels for the Church, p. 358.

**Discussion Questions**

`Though other Christians (but not all) believe in the literal second coming of Jesus, what is unique about the Adventist hope in the second coming of Christ?`

`Two fish were swimming when one said to the other, “How’s the water?” The other fish answered: “What’s water?” The point is that we can get so used to things that we don’t realize just how prevalent they are. For instance, how can we, as beings born in sin, filled with sin, and living in a sinful world, really get a good grasp on what a wonderful new existence we will have in the new heavens and new earth? Why, whatever the limitations, should we still try to envision what it will be like?`

`There’s no question that, whatever our existence will be like in the new earth, we will live in unity with everyone. What can we do, right now, to help prepare ourselves for when that happens?`

**Summary**: The Bible speaks confidently of the time this earth will be recreated and the ravages of sin erased forever. At last humanity will be restored to its original purpose, and all people will live in harmony. Our current spiritual oneness in Christ, though not now fully realized, will then be a living and eternal reality.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Counsels for the Church_, “ ‘Behold, I Come Quickly,’ ” pp. 355–359;

_God’s Amazing Grace_, “Home at Last!” p. 359.