---
title:  Hearing the Letter to the Ephesians
date:  27/06/2023
---

Paul wrote Ephesians to be read aloud in the house churches of believers in greater Ephesus. In the intervening years since Paul’s departure, the Christian movement in Ephesus had grown, and the number of house churches had multiplied. For those early believers, it would have been an important event to have Tychicus, the personal representative of the founding apostle Paul, stand among them and share a letter from him. As suggested by the epistle itself, the assembled group likely included members of the host household—father, mother, children, and slaves (Eph. 5:21–6:9). At the time, a household included others, as well—clients (free persons who depended on the householder for support) and even customers. So, these may be present too, as well as members of other households.

`In conjunction with the outline of the letter below, read through the entire epistle, preferably out loud (it will take about fifteen minutes to do so). What themes echo through the letter as a whole?`

I. Opening Greeting (Eph. 1:1, 2)

II. Introductory Blessing (Eph. 1:3–14)

III. Praying for Believers to Receive Christ-Focused Wisdom (Eph. 1:15–23)

IV. Once Spiritually Dead; Now Exalted With Christ (Eph. 2:1–10)

V. Christ’s Creation of the Church Out of Jews and Gentiles (Eph. 2:11–22)

VI. Paul as Preacher of Christ to the Gentiles (Eph. 3:1–13)

VII. Praying for Believers to Experience the Love of Christ (Eph. 3:14–21)

VIII. Hold On to the Spirit-Inspired Unity of the Church(Eph.4:1–16)

IX. Live the New, Unity-Nurturing Life (Eph. 4:17–32)

X. Walk in Love, Light, and Wisdom (Eph. 5:1–20)

XI. Practice Christ-Shaped Life in the Christian Household (Eph. 5:21–6:9)

XII. Stand Together: The Church as the Army of God (Eph. 6:10–20)

XIII. Closing Greeting (Eph. 6:21–24)

`What key theme seems to come through in this letter? What does it say to you? What specific point or points touch home?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The apostle [Paul] continues: “That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith . . . that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God.” While this divine fullness has been placed within our reach, how easily we are satisfied. We have accustomed ourselves to think that it is enough to have a knowledge of the truth without its sanctifying power. Just a little sip at the fountain of life quenches our thirst. We do not come again and again to drink. But this is not in accordance with the mind of God. Our souls should be continually athirst for the water of life. Our hearts should ever go out after Christ, longing for communion with Him. It is hungering and thirsting after righteousness that will bring us the full measure of His grace.\
How did [Enoch] gain this sweet intimacy? It was by having thoughts of God continually before him. As he went out and as he came in, his meditations were upon the goodness, the perfection, and the loveliness of the divine character. And as he was thus engaged, he became changed in the glorious image of his Lord; for it is by beholding that we become changed.—The Signs of the Times, August 18, 1887.

It is not only the privilege but the duty of every Christian to maintain a close union with Christ and to have a rich experience in the things of God. Then his life will be fruitful in good works. Said Christ, “Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit” (John 15:8). When we read the lives of men who have been eminent for their piety we often regard their experiences and attainments as far beyond our reach. But this is not the case. Christ died for all; and we are assured in His word that He is more willing to give His Holy Spirit to them that ask Him than are earthly parents to give good gifts to their children. The prophets and apostles did not perfect Christian character by a miracle. They used the means which God had placed within their reach; and all who will put forth the same effort will secure the same results.\
In his letter to the church at Ephesus, Paul sets before them the “mystery of the gospel” (Ephesians 6:19), the “unsearchable riches of Christ” (Ephesians 3:8), and then assures them of his earnest prayers for their spiritual prosperity.—The Sanctified Life, pp. 83, 84.