---
title:  The Holy Spirit, the Word, and Prayer
date:   04/03/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit, the Word, and Prayer

### Read for This Week’s Study
John 15:7; Matt. 7:7; Ps. 66:18; James 1:6–8; 1 John 5:14, 15; Acts 2:38.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “The Spirit also helps us in our weaknesses. For we do not know what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Now He who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because He makes intercession for the saints according to the will of God” (Romans 8:26, 27, NKJV). 

True spirituality and prayer go together. There is no real spiritual life without vigorous prayer. After the need for repentance, perhaps one of the greatest and most urgent needs is a revival of our prayer life. The good news is that even in our prayers we are not left without the help of the Holy Spirit. Prayer draws us closer to God; it lifts us up into His presence. The prayer of faith enables us to live in response to the abundance of God’s promises. Our lives are transformed when we claim the blessings God has promised in His Word. God is more than able to supply all of our needs according to His riches (Phil. 4:19). True prayer and authentic spirituality always have God at the center of our attention, and both are rooted in His Written Word. 

We should not be basing our spiritual lives on our unsteady experience and subjective feelings, nor focusing our prayers on suspect contemplative and meditative practices. Rather, our spirituality has to be guided by the Bible and to follow God’s will as revealed in His Word. It is the Holy Spirit who awakens in us a desire to seek God’s presence in prayer and to lift up one another in our supplications. 

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, March 11._
