---
title:  'The Foundation of Biblical Prayer: Ask God'
date:   06/03/2017
---

### The Foundation of Biblical Prayer: Ask God

`Read Matthew 7:7. Before we can receive anything from God, we have to ask for it. Why is our asking so important, since God knows everything anyhow?`

Asking reveals our desire and expresses our trust in God. Through prayer we approach Him, from whom we seek support and help. When we ask God, we also publicly give Him permission to become active in our behalf. God wants to be asked. He desires that we bring to Him our prayer requests. If we do not ask Him, we will not receive the gifts He has promised. Jesus said: “ ‘Ask, and it will be given you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened for you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks, it will be opened’ ” (Luke 11:9, 10, NKJV).

`Read Mark 11:24; 1 John 5:14, 15; and Psalm 66:18. Why is no prayer request too big for God? Why is it good to know that God is generous and loves to give out of His abundance? What is the prerequisite for God to fulfill our prayers?`

We truly can ask God for anything. No request is too small or unimportant for Him. No request is so big that God cannot handle it. He is omnipotent. By faith we may claim every promise in the Bible and receive the promised gifts from His hands according to His will (2 Cor. 1:20). 

Yet, there are some conditions to be met in order to receive what we are asking. If we are not willing to submit fully to God, and if our requests reflect only our selfish and sinful desires, God will not answer our prayers (see Isa. 59:1, 2). An important condition for the fulfillment of our prayers is our willingness to follow God’s will and to be obedient. “All His [God’s] gifts are promised on condition of obedience.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 145. Knowing that God is generous, we can come boldly to Him. “The Lord is not glorified by the tame supplications which show that nothing is expected. He desires every one who believes, to approach the throne of grace with earnestness and assurance.”—Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, Aug. 7, 1901.
