---
title:  'The Foundation of Biblical Prayer: Believe'
date:   07/03/2017
---

### The Foundation of Biblical Prayer: Believe 

`Read Mark 11:24. Besides asking, what other aspect does Jesus mention in connection with prayer?`

Asking alone is not enough. There is a second important aspect that needs to be present in our prayers: faith. The book of Hebrews tells us that “without faith it is impossible to please” God (Heb. 11:6, NASB). When we kneel down before God and open the Bible to any of the more than three thousand promises and then ask God, with the simplicity of a small child, to fulfill His promises in our behalf, we have to believe that He will do what is best for us in His time.

`Read James 1:6–8. How does the text describe the person who lacks faith? Why is faith a prerequisite to receiving the promised gifts?`

If we come to God, we must believe that He exists and that He will reward those who seek Him. Effectual prayer must be accompanied by a belief not only that God can answer, but that He will do so according to His divine will. 

In the Bible, believing is related to trusting. We can trust someone only when we know the other person to be trustworthy. When we entertain doubts that God will keep His promises, we waver and cannot expect that we will receive anything from Him. To believe means to take God at His word. It means that we depend on God and His promises, even when our feelings tell us otherwise. For “faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen” (Heb. 11:1, NASB). Faith clings to God’s promises because we trust what He has said (Heb. 11:11). Faith knows that “it is impossible for God to lie” (Heb. 6:18, NASB). God is the same, yesterday, today, and forever (Heb. 13:8). Faith knows that for God nothing is impossible (Luke 1:37). 

Faith opens the door to the divine treasure-house. Through the Holy Spirit, God moves the hearts of men and women to trust the Word of God, and through faith, our prayers move the arm of omnipotence. 

`What helps you to grow stronger in faith? What aspect of Jesus helps you to have confidence in His willingness and ability to help you in your times of need?`