---
title:  Singing the Lord’s Song in a Strange Land
date:   27/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 74:18-22; Psalm 88:3-12; Psalm 42:1-3; Psalm 77; Psalm 37:1, 8; Psalm 125:3.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “But we cannot sing songs about the Lord while we are in this foreign country!” (Psalm 137:4, ICB).

In the book of Psalms, the poets understood that life on this earth is filled with sin, evil, suffering, and death. Satan and his followers always work to destroy this earth and attack God’s holy laws. As sin and evil make life on earth worse, God’s people often feel, at times, that living on this earth is the same as living in a “foreign country” or a strange land. The poets who wrote the Book of the Psalms often felt this way, too. They wondered, “How do we live a life of faith in a strange land?”

As we saw already, the poets in the Book of Psalms know that God is in control. They also believe that God protects His people in hard times. So, the poets are, at times, confused when they see evil winning. The poets wonder, Where is God? We wonder these things, too, at times. We must remember that the poems in the Book of Psalms are also prayers. In these prayers, the poets talk about how they feel when God is silent and doesn’t answer their prayers for help right away. Maybe you felt that way, too, when you prayed. You may have wondered why God didn’t answer your prayers right away. Or maybe you felt that God was far away. This week, we will look at some of the poems in the Book of Psalms that talk about what we should do during the times when God is silent.