---
title:  The Days Of Evil
date:   28/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 74:18-22 and Psalm 79:5-13. These two poems are also prayers. What are these prayers about? What is the poet asking the Lord to do?`

The poet wants to understand the war between good and evil. The poet says that God is patient, wise, and powerful during this war.

In the Book of Psalms, whenever the poets talk about evil, they also talk about how God will solve this problem. When God’s enemies destroy Jerusalem and the temple, the poets get upset. They worry that people from other countries will think God is weak and then insult Him. The people of Israel are God’s special treasure. God gave them His promise (Deuteronomy 4:32-38; Deuteronomy 32:8, 9). Israel is “living proof” that God will keep His promise. God’s promise to Israel during Bible times also is an end-time promise for us. We are also God’s special treasure. In the future, everyone will bow to the Lord. People from every age will serve Him. These promises are precious to the poets. That’s why they get upset when foreign armies force their way into Israel. These armies are a danger to everything God promised His people.

The poet knows that Israel’s sins hurt their relationship with God. The sins of their fathers brought curses on their land and their children (Psalm 79:8, 9). Only God can save His people now. The poet says the Lord is “our God and Savior” (Psalm 79:9, ERV). These names for the Lord show us that He will keep His promise (Psalm 79:9).

What is more important to the poets than God’s blessing Israel? Nothing is. In Psalm 79, the poet wants all people to honor and praise God (Psalm 79:9). The poet wants God to punish the countries who hurt Israel. If God punishes these people, they will know that God is powerful (Psalm 74:18-23; Psalm 83:16-18; Psalm 106:47). When God saves His people, His Name will be honored and praised.

Today, our sins also hurt us. Our sins also hurt God and cause other people to insult Him. How many people have rejected God because of the evil behavior of Christians?

`“God’s honor and Jesus’ honor will be seen in the holy lives of His people.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 671, adapted. What does this important spiritual truth mean to you? How should it change the way you live?`