---
title:  I Am Ready To Die!
date:   29/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 41:1-4; Psalm 88:3-12; and Psalm 102:3-5, 11, 23, 24. What experiences do these poems talk about? Have you felt this way, too?`

Psalm 41, Psalm 88, and Psalm 102 are prayers. The poets ask God to save them from sickness and death. These poems help us remember that God’s children often have difficult experiences in life. God’s children may suffer and get sick. The poets talk about their own suffering and pain. They have no strength. They dry up the same as grass. They feel as if they are about to die and lie down in the grave. Their friends stay away from them. One poet says, “Because of my sadness, I am losing so much weight that my skin hangs from my bones” (Psalm 102:5, ERV).

Many poets in the Book of Psalms believe that Israel suffers trouble because they refused to obey God. The poets understand that sin can cause people to get sick. So, they talk about the need to ask God for forgiveness so that God can heal them (Psalm 41:3, 4). Sometimes we didn’t do anything to cause our suffering. Psalm 88 and Psalm 102 talk about how God’s people suffer because we live on an earth filled with sin. So, suffering is part of life. This idea is hard for many people to accept and understand.

In Psalm 88, the poet complains that God is the cause of his suffering (Psalm 88:6-8). Do you see that the poet’s complaint is filled with faith? If the Lord allowed the poet to suffer trouble, He can also save His child from it.

When the poet feels that he is about to die, he remembers God’s love and care (Psalm 88:10-12). Yes, the poet believes that God punishes him. At the same time, the poet grabs hold of God and holds on tight. The poet knows that God loves him and is the only One who can save him. The poet knows about suffering, but he also knows about God’s mercy.

Psalm 88 shows us that God is in control. He controls whatever happens in life. God may allow suffering. He also may save His children out of it. His control over everything that happens to us should fill our hearts with hope.

`Think about Jesus on the cross and what He suffered because of sin. God the Father suffered with Jesus, in the Person of Jesus. They suffered worse than any of us. How can this idea help us keep faith in times of suffering?`