---
title:  Where Is God?
date:   30/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 42:1-3; Psalm 63:1; Psalm 69:1-3; Psalm 102:1-7. What causes the poet much pain?`

The poet suffers personal troubles. Also, he fears that God is very far away. This fear upsets the poet more than all his personal suffering. The poet uses many word pictures to explain how he feels. He compares his worry to feeling thirsty in a land with no water (Psalm 42:1-3; Psalm 63:1). The poet’s worry about God makes him feel sick enough to die (Psalm 102:2-4). The poet compares himself to lonely birds:

> <p></p>
> “I am like [the same as] a desert owl.
> <p></p>
> I am like an owl living among the ruins.
> <p></p>
> I lie awake.
> <p></p>
> I am like a lonely bird on a housetop” (Psalm 102:6, 7, ICB).

The “desert” is a word picture that helps us to see that the poet feels very alone and far away from God. A “lonely bird on a housetop” is not in its nest, where it can rest. The poet feels as if he were drowning and sinking down into heavy mud (Psalm 69:1-3; Psalm 130:1). Each of these word pictures shows us that the poet feels that he can’t escape from His suffering without God’s help.

`Read Psalm 10:12; Psalm 22:1; Psalm 27:9; and Psalm 39:12. In these poems, the poet worries that God is far from him. How does that thought make the poet feel?`

The poet refuses to stay silent when God doesn’t answer His prayers. The poet’s faith in prayer is strong. He believes that God is alive and loves to show His mercy to His children. The poet believes that God is there, even when He says nothing. The God who is silent today is the same God who answered the poet’s prayers in the past. So, the poet believes that the Lord hears his prayers now.

When God doesn’t answer the poet’s prayers right away, the poet looks at his heart and life. He confesses his sins. He continues to pray and tell God his needs. The poet knows that God will not stay silent forever.

`What can we learn from the poet’s prayers to God when God does not answer him right away? What do you do when God is silent? What keeps your faith strong?`