---
title:  Did God’s Promise Fail?
date:   31/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What experience is the poet having in Psalm 77?`

In Psalm 77, the poet starts with a prayer for help. The poet’s memories about the past are painful (Psalm 77:1-6). The poet refuses any hope that doesn’t come from God.

The poet’s memories make him feel very sad. He feels worse the more he remembers the past. “God, I remembered you, and I groaned [moaned sadly]” (Psalm 77:3, NIrV). The Hebrew word for “moan” is “hamah.” The poets in the Book of Psalms used “hamah” to talk about how “the seas become rough and dark” during a storm (Psalm 46:3, ERV). In Psalm 77, the poet feels no rest or peace.

How can the poet’s memory about God cause him to feel so upset? When we look at the questions the poet asks, we learn the reason why he feels so sad (Psalm 77:7-9). The poet wonders, Did God change? Will He keep His promise? Did He lose His power? Is He weak now?

In the past, God saved the poet. But now, God isn’t answering his prayers. So, the poet feels that he is all alone. If God changed, then the poet will lose all hope. The poet refuses to believe this false idea.

In the meantime, the poet can’t sleep. The Lord keeps him awake (Psalm 77:4). The poet’s sleeping problems help us remember other Bible stories about other people who had trouble sleeping. God used their sleep problems to put His saving plan into action (Genesis 41:1-8; Esther 6:1; Daniel 2:1-3). When the poet lies awake at night, he remembers how the Lord saved His people in the past. When the poet remembers, he wants to serve God more (Psalm 77:5, 10).

Finally, God answers the poet. God’s answer isn’t filled with explanations for why the poet suffers now. God gives the poet reasons to continue to trust in Him. Now the poet is encouraged to wait on the Lord in faith. The poet knows that God is the same God who performed miracles in Israel’s past (Psalm 77:11-18). The poet knows that God’s people often can’t see Him working for them: “Your path led through the Red Sea. You walked through the mighty waters. But your footprints were not seen” (Psalm 77:19, NIrV).

`Think about past times when the Lord worked in your life. How do those experiences help you in the hard times you may have now?`