---
title:  Evil People Will Not Always Control The Land
date:   01/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 37:1, 8; Psalm 49:5-7; Psalm 94:3-7; and Psalm 125:3. What problem are these poems talking about?`

In Psalm 37; Psalm 49; Psalm 94; and Psalm 125, the poet talks about evil people. The poet doesn’t understand why evil people succeed. They don’t hide their hatred for God. They hurt other people and aren’t sorry. We are told that evil people will not always control the land (Psalm 125:3). We are told that God’s kingdom will continue forever (Psalm 45:6). But sometimes we may think that evil people are winning and enjoying life. So, we may want to give up our faith and join the evil ones in a life of sin.

`What helps the poet during a hard time? Read Psalm 73:1-20, 27 for the answer. What happens to people who don’t trust in God? (Also read 1 Peter 1:17.)`

When the poet looked at the evil around him, he started to doubt God. The poet saw that evil people enjoyed much success. Their success caused the poet to doubt God’s plan. The poet wondered, “Is it useless to have faith?”

Then the poet thinks about God’s temple where God will judge all people. This Bible truth helps the poet understand that God is in control. Evil people may think they can do whatever they want in this life. But in the future, they will answer to God for everything they chose to do. When the poet understands this Bible truth, he knows that he was wrong to doubt God. He confesses his sin. Only God can help us understand what is important in life: we must live for Him, even when most everyone else around us is living for self and sin.

`God will judge everyone who lived. God will judge all the evil that people do. How does this promise give you hope when so many people do evil that isn’t punished now?`