---
title:  Additional thought
date:   02/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Psalm 56; Ellen G. White, “Rejoicing in the Lord,” pages 115-126, in _Steps to Christ_.

“When you suffer or are in trouble, look up, not down. Look to God. Don’t look at your problems or how difficult they are. When you look to God, you will always have courage. Soon you will see the hand of Jesus coming to help you. All you need to do is give Him your hand in faith. Let Him lead you. When you learn to trust Him, you will be filled with hope.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, pages 578, 579, adapted.

Do you sometimes feel that you are all alone? Or do you feel that God turned His face away from you? Keep praying. In dark times, the poets who wrote the Book of Psalms thought that God was far away. What did the poets do? They kept praying. They looked inside their hearts. They remembered God’s saving acts in the past. They confessed their sins to God. They continue to ask Him for help (Psalm 77:10-12; Psalm 89:46-52).

“Our faith grows strong when we meet with, and fight against, doubts and troubles. When we fight against doubts and troubles, we will learn an important lesson about life that will be worth more than the most precious jewels.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 3, page 555, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What doubts and fears did the poets fight against? What things do you doubt and fear? How did you keep strong in faith during these hard times?`

`Where should we look for answers when our faith in God is put to the test? What hope can you give to people whose suffering causes them to question God’s love?`

`How do you answer the question about why an all-powerful God of love allows evil to happen on this earth? How does the worldwide war between good and evil help answer this question?`