---
title:  The Right Use of Power in the Church
date:   15/12/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 5:23–27; Matthew 20:25–28; 2 Timothy 2:15; Matthew 16:19; Galatians 6:1, 2; Matthew 28:18–20

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “It must not be that way with you. But whoever wants to be great [important] among you, let him care for you. Whoever wants to be first among you, let him be your servant” (Matthew 20:26, 27, NLV).

WE ARE SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTISTS. We believe that God saves us only by our faith in the things that Jesus did for all humans. We do not need a church or a group of religious leaders to help give us the things that Jesus did for us. What we need, we get from Jesus. He is our High Priest. A high priest is a religious leader who works to save his people. Jesus works as our High Priest in heaven’s sanctuary. Heaven’s sanctuary is the place in heaven where Jesus works right now to save us.

Yes, we do not need a church to give us the things Jesus did for us. But God made the church. God put the church on earth for us to help us show everyone His saving plan. Jesus made the church to do the work of sharing the Good News with everyone on earth. So, the church is important because it helps us to do God’s work. The church also brings us all together in unity. Unity is agreement. Jesus joins believers as one in heart, mind, and the truth.

This week, we study why the church is important to the work that God gave His followers to do. We also will look at how the church brings all believers together in unity.
