---
title:  Jesus is the Leader of the Church
date:   16/12/2018
---

We learned in an earlier lesson that the Bible uses the word picture of the “body” to show us the church. The church is the “body” of Jesus. This word picture helps us see several different parts of the church and the connection between Jesus and His people. The church depends on Jesus for its life. He is the “Head [Leader]” of the church (Colossians 1:18; Ephesians 1:22). Jesus gives life to the church. If we do not have Jesus, there is no church.

Jesus also gives the church its identity. Our identity is our understanding of who we are as a church. Jesus gave the church its truth and its teachings. Yes, these teachings are important. But the church gives us more than teachings. What decides who and what the church is? The answer is Jesus and the Bible. So, we can learn more about the church and what it means from Jesus and the Bible.

`In Ephesians 5:23–27, Paul talks about the connection between Jesus and His church. Paul uses this connection to show how a husband and wife should love each other. What does Paul in these verses tell us about the connection between Jesus and His church and the closeness that Jesus wants to have with His followers?`

We must accept Jesus’ control over our lives. Some people may have a problem with giving control to anyone because they do not like how some leaders acted in the past. Those leaders did not use their power in the right way. But the church is under Jesus, who is loving and the church’s Leader. Our loyalty belongs to Jesus and to no one else. God has given the church power, but Jesus always must control that power. He is the true Leader of our church.

“The church is built on Jesus. It must obey Him. He is its Leader. The church must not depend on humans or be under human control. Many people say that their work in the church gives them the power to decide what other people shall believe and what they shall do. But God does not accept that wrong use of power. Jesus says, ‘You are all brothers.’ Everyone in the church can behave in wrong ways and make mistakes. So, we should not depend on any human to guide us. Jesus is our Rock of faith. The weakest believer may depend on Him. The members who think they are strong must depend on Him, or they will become weak.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 414, adapted.
