---
title:  Servant Leaders
date:   17/12/2018
---

During His time on earth, Jesus no doubt felt sad because His followers wished to have power. Jesus’ followers wanted to become powerful leaders in Jesus’ kingdom (Mark 9:33, 34; Luke 9:46). When Jesus’ followers ate the Last Supper together, many of them were filled with the wish to control each other and to be number one (Luke 22:24).

`Jesus shared His thoughts about how a spiritual lead- er should behave with God’s people. What important rule in Matthew 20:25–28 do we learn from Jesus about how to be a good leader? How can we make this rule an important part of our lives? How can we follow this rule in our churches?`

“In these verses, Jesus shows us two examples of power. The first is the Roman idea of power. In the example of Roman power, the rulers can boss everyone around. The rulers have the power to make decisions. They expect everyone to follow what they say. Jesus clearly does not like this example of power. He tells His followers, ‘Do not let things be that way with you.’ Then Jesus shows His followers a new example to follow. This example of power was so different from what His followers saw every day.” —Darius Jankiewicz, “Serving Like [the same as] Jesus: Authority [power] in God’s Church,” Adventist Review, March 13, 2014, page 18, adapted.

In the story about the right way to use power, Jesus uses two important Greek words: “diakonos,” which means “servant,” and “doulos,” which means “slave.” In some Bible translations, the word “diakonos” is written as “leader” (Matthew 20:26, ERV). The word “doulos” is often written as “servant” or “slave” (Matthew 20:26, 27, ERV). Written that way in English, both words lose much of their meaning. Jesus did not want to stop all power. No. Jesus wanted to make it clear that church leaders must first act as servants and slaves to God’s people. Church leaders must not try to control God’s people or boss them around. They must not try to be famous or important in other people’s eyes. “Jesus started His kingdom on different rules. He chose men to serve other people, not control them. He chose the strong to help the weak.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 550, adapted.
