---
title:  The Secret to Lasting Peace in the Church
date:   18/12/2018
---

In 2 Timothy 2:15 and Titus 1:9, Paul gives advice to both Timothy and Titus about what church leaders should do. What does Paul say about loyal church leaders and their work?
Do you see that Paul feels we must protect church teachings and beliefs? That is because our teachings are very important for our unity. Unity is agreement in mind, spirit, and the truth. Our teachings join us as one church. Our church is made of many different groups of people. So, we must find our agreement in something that joins us as one in Jesus. Our unity comes from the truth that Jesus gives our church. What happens if we get confused about our teachings? Then we will argue and separate from each other. That will happen more and more as we near the end of time.

“These words are from my heart to you. I say this before [in front of] God and Jesus Christ. Some day He will judge those who are living [all who are alive] and those [people] who are dead. It will be when Christ comes to bring [get] His holy nation. Preach the Word of God. Preach it when it is easy and people want to listen and when it is hard [also] and people do not want to listen. Preach it all the time. Use the Word of God [the Bible] to show people they are wrong. Use the Word of God to help them do right. You must be willing to wait for people to understand what you teach as [when] you teach them. The time will come [one day] when people will not listen to the truth. They will look for teachers who will tell them only what they want to hear. They will not listen to the truth. Instead, they will listen to stories made up by men” (2 Timothy 4:1–4, NLV).
These words are Paul’s advice to Timothy about what Timothy should do to get ready for Jesus to come back. Paul warns that false teachings will be everywhere in the end time. So, Timothy should preach the truth. That is the work that God gave to Timothy.

As part of that work, Timothy should invite, teach, and encourage believers. The Bible itself guides us in the same way (2 Timothy 3:16). Timothy must follow Bible truth and teach it to other people. He must be patient and show love to people when he does this work. Our scolding sinners does not often bring them to Jesus. With the Holy Spirit’s help, Timothy’s work will join the church as one in Jesus.
