---
title:  Leaders Must Train Members To Do Right
date:   19/12/2018
---

One of the important jobs that church leaders must do is to teach believers to do what is right and to punish wrong behavior. We must be careful how we talk about this important subject, because members easily can misunderstand it. The important work of teaching and punishment helps the church to stay in unity. Unity, as we have learned, is agreement in mind, spirit, and in Bible truth. The Bible shows us that leaders in the church teach and punish members for two important reasons: (1) to protect the truth and (2) to protect the church.

As we saw already, the New Testament writers talk about how important it is to protect our Bible teachings any time false teachings attack the truth. It also is important to protect the church from bad behavior, lies, and sex that breaks God’s law. God gave us the Bible to protect us from false teachings and bad behavior. That is why Paul says that the Bible is “useful for teaching and for showing people what is wrong in their lives. It is useful for fixing faults and teaching the right way to live” (2 Timothy 3:16, ERV).

`In Matthew 16:19 and Matthew 18:15–20, Jesus gives the church some important rules to follow when its leaders must punish members for doing wrong. What are these rules?`

The Bible supports the idea of punishment when needed. The Bible also says that we are responsible to each other in our spiritual lives. That means that we choose to do what is right and live holy lives. We know that our behavior can change other people’s lives. What is one of the things that makes the church different from other groups on the earth? Its members separate themselves from the way of life lived by people who do not know or obey God. The lives of Christians look different from the lives of other people. In the New Testament, we find examples of how the church had to punish sin and bad behavior in the church. We must continue to honor God’s law in the church.

`Matthew 7:1–5 and Galatians 6:1, 2 talk about important rules that we must follow when we try to solve difficult problems in the church. What are these rules?`

When we punish members, we need to be loving and kind.
