---
title:  Our Work For God Today
date:   20/12/2018
---

In our lesson study this quarter, we learned again and again that Jesus started our church and joined us as one in Him to do His work. We are not just a social club for people who want to spend time together talking about the truth that we love (but that can be an important thing to do too). The real reason God brought us together as a church was for us to share with everyone on the earth the truth for the end time.

`In Matthew 28:18–20, Jesus gave His followers final commands to follow in the work that He gave them to do on this earth. What are the important words in Jesus’ command? What do these words tell the church today?`

Jesus’ command to His followers includes four important verbs: (1) go, (2) make followers, (3) baptize, and (4) teach. In the Greek language, the most important verb is “to make followers.” The other three verbs tell us how we can make followers. We make new followers for Jesus when we go to all the countries and people on the earth and preach the Good News to them, baptize them, and teach them to do the things that Jesus did.

When we do this work, God’s kingdom gets bigger. More and more people from all over the earth accept Jesus as their Savior. They obey Jesus’ command to be baptized. They follow His teachings. These new members become part of God’s worldwide family. Jesus’ new followers are safe in knowing that Jesus is with them every day as they make new followers for Him. They have the promise that Jesus and God the Father will be with them. The book of Matthew starts with the announcement that the birth of Jesus means that “ ‘God [is] with us’ ” (Matthew 1:23, NLV). The book of Matthew ends with Jesus’ promise to His followers that He always will be with them until He comes back again at the Second Coming.

“Jesus does not tell His followers that their work will be easy. . . . But He promises them that He will be with them. If they will follow Jesus in faith, then God Himself will protect them. Jesus tells His followers to be brave. . . . He will give them everything they need to do their work. He will make sure the work is a success. As long as His followers obey His word and work with Him, then Jesus’ followers cannot fail.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 29, adapted.
