---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   21/12/2018
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Individual [personal] Responsibility [the things God gives us to take care of] and Christian Unity [agreement],” pages 485–505, in Testimonies [messages] to Ministers [pastors] and Gospel [Good News] Workers; “Unity [agreement] in [among] Diversity [differences],” pages 483–485, and “Church Discipline [punishment for doing wrong] in Gospel [Good News] Workers . Read the articles “Church,” pages 707–710, and “Church Organization [leadership],” pages 712–714, in The Ellen G . White Encyclopedia.

“The leader in the church must do more than any normal leader does. The church leader also must be a servant.
“But how can a person lead and serve at the same time? A leader is someone that other people honor, right? A leader also is someone who commands people and expects them to obey him, yes? So, how can a leader be a servant who follows orders?

“If we want to solve this ‘puzzle,’ we must look at Jesus. Jesus showed us an important rule about leadership. He showed us how to be a leader who also serves other people. Jesus served people His whole life. At the same time, Jesus was the best leader that anyone on this earth ever saw.”—G. Arthur Keough, Our Church Today: What It [our church] Is and [what it] Can Be (Washington, D.C. and Nashville: Review and Herald, 1980), page 106, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**

`1 Think some more about the idea of a servant leader. Who is a good example of a servant leader in history or in the news today?`

`2 Read Matthew 20:25–28 again. What do these verses tell us about what God thinks the word “important” (Matthew 20:26, NIrV) or “great [powerful]” (Matthew 20:26, NLV) really means?`

`3 One of the jobs that church leaders must do is protect the peace and agreement in the church. What should we do when our leaders make mistakes, fail, or are not perfect examples?`

`4 Why is it important for us to show people mercy and be kind to them when we must punish them for doing wrong?`
