---
title:  Giving Back
date:  04/03/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Luke 12:16–21, Eccles. 2:18–22, Prov. 27:23–27, 2 Cor. 4:18, Eccles. 5:10, Col. 1:15–17.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow them” (Revelation 14:13).

As we near the end of our earning years, our financial focus turns toward preserving our assets in anticipation of the end of life. The transition from working to retirement can be a very traumatic experience. In terms of our finances, what is the best way to proceed?

As people get older, they almost naturally begin to worry about the future. The most common fears are: dying too soon (before the famil­y is taken care of); living too long (outliving one’s assets or savings); catastrophic illness (all one’s resources could go at one time); or mental and/or physical disability (who will take care of me?).

When commenting on these fears, Ellen G. White wrote: “All these fears originate with Satan. . . . If they would take the position which God would have them, their last days might be their best and happiest. . . . They should lay aside anxiety and burdens, and occupy their time as happily as they can, and be ripening up for heaven.”—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 1, p. 424.

This week we will review God’s counsel regarding our last years. What are things that we should do, what should we avoid doing, and what principles should we follow?

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, March 11._---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

David was distressed as he saw those who once seemed to have the fear of God before them, now in old age seemingly forsaken of God and exposed to ridicule by the enemies of the Lord. . . .<br/>
David was strongly moved. He was distressed. He looked forward to the time when he should be aged, and feared that God would leave him and he would be as unhappy as other aged persons whose course he had noticed, and that he should be left to the reproach of the enemies of the Lord. With this burden upon him he earnestly prays [Psalm 71:9, 17, 19 quoted]. David felt the necessity of guarding against the evils which attend old age. . . .<br/>
If such would take the position God would have them, their last days might be their best, their happiest. Those who have children in whose honesty and management they have reason to confide, should allow them to manage for them and provide for their happiness. Unless they do this, Satan will take advantage of their lack of mental strength, and will manage for them. They should lay aside anxiety and burdens, and occupy their time as happily as they can, in ripening up for heaven.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 3, p. 1148.

There are living upon our earth men who have passed the age of fourscore and ten. The natural results of old age are seen in their feebleness. But they believe God, and God loves them. The seal of God is upon them, and they will be among the number of whom the Lord has said, “Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord.” With Paul they can say, “I have fought a good fight, I have finished by course, I have kept the faith: henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also which love his appearing.” There are many whose grey hairs God honors because they have fought a good fight and kept the faith.—Letter 207, 1899.

What a glorious morning will the resurrection morning be! What a wonderful scene will open when Christ shall come to be admired of them that believe! All who were partakers with Christ in His humiliation and sufferings will be partakers with Him in His glory. By the resurrection of Christ from the dead every believing saint who falls asleep in Jesus will come forth from his prison house in triumph. The resurrected saint will proclaim, “O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?” (1 Corinthians 15:55).<br/>
Jesus Christ has triumphed over death and rent the fetters of the tomb, and all who sleep in the tomb will share the victory; they will come forth from their graves as did the Conqueror.—Selected Messages, book 2, pp. 271, 272.