---
title:  Spiritual Legacy
date:  09/03/2023
---

Though it’s hard to know what life would have been like on earth had humans not sinned, one thing we can know for sure: there would have been no hoarding, no greed, no poverty—things that have plagued our world since recorded history. Our sense of ownership, of what we have worked for and, if we did it honestly, is rightfully ours, is nevertheless a manifestation of life in a fallen world. In the end, however, regardless of how much we do or do not own, there’s one important point that we should always remember.

`Read the following texts. What is the central point in them all, and how should that point impact what we do with whatever material means God has blessed us with? (Ps. 24:1, Heb. 3:4, Ps. 50:10, Gen. 14:19, Col. 1:15–17).`

We are stewards and managers of what God has entrusted to us; that is, He ultimately owns it all, and He is the one who gives us life, existence, and the strength to have anything at all. It is only logical, then, that when we are finished with what God has given us, and have taken care of our family, we should return the rest to Him.

“In giving to the work of God, you are laying up for yourselves treasures in heaven. All that you lay up above is secure from disaster and loss, and is increasing to an eternal, an enduring substance” “[and] will be registered to your account in the kingdom of heaven.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, p. 342.

There are many advantages to giving now, while we live. Here are a few:

1.	The donor actually can see the results of the gift—a new church building, a young person in college, an evangelistic campaign funded, and so on.

2.	The ministry or person can benefit now when the need is greatest.

3.	There is no fighting among family or friends after your death.

4.	It sets a good example of family values of generosity and love for others.

5.	It minimizes estate tax consequence.

6.	It guarantees that the gift will be made to your desired entity (no interference from courts or disgruntled relatives).

7.	It demonstrates that the heart of the donor has been changed from selfish to unselfish.

8.	It stores up treasures in heaven.---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It will not do for you to depend on making your charity gifts in testamentary bequests at death. You cannot calculate with the least degree of surety that the cause will ever be benefited by them. Satan works with acute skill to stir up the relatives, and every false position is taken to gain to the world that which was solemnly dedicated to the cause of God. Much less than the sum willed is always received. Satan even puts it into the hearts of men and women to protest against their relatives’ doing what they wish in the bestowment of their property. They seem to regard everything given to the Lord as robbing the relatives of the deceased.<br/>
If you want your means to go to the cause, appropriate it, or all that you do not really need for a support, while you live. A few of the brethren are doing this and enjoying the pleasure of being their own executors. Will the covetousness of men make it necessary that they shall be deprived of life in order that the property which God has lent them shall not be useless forever? Let none of you draw upon yourselves the doom of the unprofitable servant who hid his Lord’s money in the earth.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 155.

The first Christian church had not the privileges and opportunities we have. They were a poor people, but they felt the power of the truth. The object before them was sufficient to lead them to invest all. They felt that the salvation or the loss of a world depended upon their instrumentality. They cast in their all and held themselves in readiness to go or come at the Lord’s bidding.<br/>
We profess to be governed by the same principles, to be influenced by the same spirit. But instead of giving all for Christ many have taken the golden wedge and a goodly Babylonish garment and hid them in the camp. If the presence of one Achan was sufficient to weaken the whole camp of Israel, can we be surprised at the little success which attends our efforts when every church and almost every family has its Achan? Let us individually go to work to stimulate others by our example of disinterested benevolence. The work might have gone forward with far greater power had all done what they could to supply the treasury with means.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, pp. 156, 157.

Many are making a great mistake in regard to the things of this life. They economize, withholding from themselves and others the good they might receive from a right use of the means which God has lent them, and become selfish and avaricious. They neglect their spiritual interests and become dwarfs in religious growth, all for the sake of accumulating wealth which they cannot use. They leave their property to their children, and nine times out of ten it is even a greater curse to their heirs than it has been to themselves. Children, relying upon the property of their parents, often fail to make a success of this life, and generally utterly fail to secure the life to come. The very best legacy which parents can leave their children is a knowledge of useful labor and the example of a life characterized by disinterested benevolence. By such a life they show the true value of money, that it is only to be appreciated for the good that it will accomplish in relieving their own wants and the necessities of others, and in advancing the cause of God.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 3, p. 399.