---
title:  The Agreement And The Law Of God
date:  15/05/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Exodus 19:6; Isaiah 56:7; Hebrews 2:9; Deuteronomy 4:13; Amos 3:3; Genesis 18:19.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘So remember that the LORD your God is the only God, and you can trust him! He keeps his agreement. He shows his love and kindness [thoughtfulness] to all people who love him and obey his commands. He continues to show his love and kindness through a thousand generations [a group of people born and living at the same time]” (Deuteronomy 7:9, ERV).

PSALM 23 is a beautiful poem about our Savior. Our Savior leads us the same as a shepherd leads his sheep. One of the most important verses in Psalm 23 is verse 3. In this verse, David shows us where God wants to lead us: “He leads me in the way of living right with Himself” (Psalm 23:3, NLV, boldface added). God is perfect. He cannot sin or do wrong. So, He will not lead us the wrong way. God will give us a safe road to travel on our spiritual walk in life.

What is this safe road that God leads us down? The writer of another psalm answers this question in a prayer: “Make [help] me walk in the path [road; a word picture for obeying God] of Your Word [law]” (Psalm 119:35, NLV, boldface added). Later, the writer adds, “All of Your Word [law] is right and good” (Psalm 119:172, NLV). The answer to our question at the beginning of this paragraph is: the law of God. The law is a safe road for us to walk in life.

This week, our lesson is about the law of God. We will learn why the law is important in the Sinai agreement.