---
title:  God Chooses Israel 
date:  16/05/2021
---

A Jewish story from long ago tells us why God made His agreement with Israel. The story says that God offered His agreement to the people of other countries first. But these countries rejected the offer from God. So, God offered His agreement to Israel. The Bible does not show us any proof for this idea. But the story helps us understand an important Bible truth about the choice God makes. God chooses Israel not because of anything Israel does to earn the love or favor of God. Israel does not do anything that makes them worthy of being the people of God. The Israelites are few in number. They are slaves when God chooses them. They are not a strong country. Plus, their religion, art, and other ways of life are not important to other people living at the time. So, God chooses Israel because God loves them and shows them His mercy.

**We need to be careful when we study this idea about the choice of God. If we are not careful, we can end up misunderstanding important Bible truth about God Himself. So, we must ask ourselves the right questions to help us understand the choice God makes. What does God choose Israel for? Does God choose Israel because He wants to save only them and no one else on earth? Or does God choose Israel to help Him offer the people on earth the gift of mercy that God offers Israel first? How do the verses below help us to understand the answers to these questions?**

`Exodus 19:6`

`Isaiah 56:7`

`Hebrews 2:9`

As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe that God chose us to share special Bible truth, the same as He chose Israel. God chose our church to share the messages of the three angels. We believe that we have a message no one else has. In this way, we are the same as Israel in Bible times. God gave Israel a special message to share with everyone on earth. Today, God chose our church to do the same thing.

`What can you do to help finish the work that God gave our church to do on this earth?`