---
title:  The Need For Rules 
date:  17/05/2021
---

**‘He announced his covenant [agreement] to you. That covenant [agreement] is the Ten Commandments. He commanded you to obey them. Then he wrote them down on two stone tablets [pieces of stone]’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:13, NIrV).**

We know by now that we cannot earn the favor or love of God. His love, mercy, and forgiveness are gifts that He freely gives us. We accept by faith these gifts. But do the mercy and favor of God give us an excuse to disobey Him just because we cannot earn His love? Not at all! As we will see, the law of God and the mercy that God offers us in His agreement belong together. They cannot be separated.

`Read Deuteronomy 4:13 above. How does this verse show us that the law and the agreement are closely connected? How important is the law of God to His agreement?`

The things we already know about Bible agreements show us that the law of God is a very important part of agreements. We also know that a Bible agreement is a friendship or partnership between God and His people. Partnerships are close connections between people who work together. Good partnerships need rules. How long will a marriage, friendship, or business partnership continue if no one follows any rules? Think about all the things that can go wrong: the husband decides to have a girlfriend. A friend decides to help himself to the money in the wallet of his friend. One business partner invites another person to join his business and does not tell his other business partner about it first. All these choices break important rules and laws. How long do you think these marriages, friendships, and partnerships will be a success? Not very long, right? That is why our marriages, friendships, and partnerships must have laws, rules, and limits. When we have these things, then we can have healthy and safe marriages, friendships, and partnerships.

Rules are so important to our partnerships with other people. That is why the Bible shows us that the word “law” and the word “agreement” often mean the same thing. (Read Psalm 78:10; Psalm 50:16; Psalm 25:10; Psalm 103:18; and Deuteronomy 33:9.) Jeremiah 11:3, 6, 8 show us that the words in the agreement with God are the same as the law of God, His commandments, and important rules.