---
title:  “ ‘for Your Own Good’ ” 
date:  18/05/2021
---

What do you first think of when you think about the law? Police officers, traffic tickets, judges, and jail? Or do you think about rules, limits, strict parents, and punishments? Maybe you think about safety and peace? Or maybe you think about . . . love?

The Hebrew word “torah” is written as “law” in our Bibles. “Torah” means “teaching” or “lessons.” The word “torah” can mean all the teachings of God. These teachings include the Ten Commandments, the laws about behavior, religion, knowing right from wrong, and the rules about how we should get along with other people. The word “torah” also means all the wise advice God gives His people. This advice helps us live better spiritual lives and have good health. That is why the writer of Psalm 1 says that God blesses the people who “love the LORD’s teachings and think about them day and night” (Psalm 1:2, ERV).

The law or Torah is the teachings that Moses wrote in the first five books of the Bible. These teachings became a part of the agreement God made with Israel. As we read these teachings, we see that God gave His people laws for all parts of their lives. The law shows the Israelites how to plant crops, run their government, get along with each other, and worship God.

`Why do you think God gives so many laws to Israel? (Read Deuteronomy 10:13 for the answer.) In what ways are these for the “good” of Israel? (ERV).`

God gave His people the law to show them how to live the new life He wanted them to have with Him. The law shows each member of the agreement the plan of God for his or her life. As each person obeys the law, he or she comes to understand God more fully.

The law also shows Israel that they cannot follow the lifestyles of other countries around them. Israel is a holy people of God and His special treasure. They are a kingdom of religious leaders. Israel can continue to be these things only by their obedience to the law God gives them for all parts of their lives.

`God also has given Seventh-day Adventists advice for every part of life. Why should we see this advice as a gift from God and not something that will destroy our freedom?`