---
title:  God And His Law Never Change 
date:  19/05/2021
---

`The law of God is part of His agreement with His people. What Bible truth about God does the law show us? (Read Malachi 3:6 and James 1:17 for the answer.)`

The law of God shows us His plan for our lives (compare Psalm 40:8). The law also shows us who God is. It shows us His love and holy life. The law shows us that God is fair and kind. So, we can be thankful that the law is included in our agreement with God. Everything about the law shows us that we can trust God fully. All things on earth and in heaven are controlled by the law of God. This information helps us to feel safe and free.

We know that “we can trust God and depend on Him. Why? Because He is a God of law. His plan for our lives and His law are in perfect agreement with each other. God says something is right and good only because it really is right and good. So, we can trust that the law of God is reasonable. God does not change. So, His law is the most dependable thing in heaven and on earth.”—Walter R. Beach, Dimensions in Salvation (Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1963), page 143, adapted.

`The law cannot save us from sin. So, why does God make the law part of His agreement? (Hint: read Amos 3:3.)`

There must be peace and agreement between the people in a partnership. That is why the law is necessary for our happiness. We must have law so that we can live in peace with God. God is the One who made the earth. He also is our King and Leader. His law shows us His plan for our lives. His holy law is also the set of laws for His government in all heaven and on earth. The job of the law of God is not to save us. The law shows us what we owe God (commandments #1–4) and what we owe each other (commandments #5–10). The law shows us the way God wants us to live so that we will be happy. The law does not permit Israel to follow their own ideas about how to live a happy life. The reason for the agreement is the same now as it was in the days of Israel during Bible times. The person who enters the agreement with God is changed fully by His mercy and forgiveness. Then this person lives at peace with the plan of God for his or her life.