---
title:  If . . . 
date:  20/05/2021
---

**Look up the verses below. What same Bible truth do you see in each one of these verses? What does this Bible truth teach us about the agreement of God with His people?**

`Genesis 18:19`

`Genesis 26:4, 5`

`Exodus 19:5`

`Leviticus 26:3`

God praises the obedience of Abraham. “ ‘Abraham obeyed my words and did what I said. He obeyed my commands, my laws, and my rules’ ” (Genesis 26:5, ERV). God expects the same obedience and holy lifestyle from us when we enter His agreement with Him too. The agreement at Sinai also shows us that God expects obedience from His people. For sure, obedience is an important part of the agreement.

Exodus 19:5, NLV says, “ ‘Now then, if you will obey My voice and keep My agreement . . .’ ” (boldface added). Do you see the word “if”? “If” shows us that God respects our choices. The blessings we get depend on our choice to obey. Yes, God gives us His agreement because He loves us. We cannot earn His favor or His forgiveness. At the same time, we can enjoy the blessings of the agreement only if we obey God. God will not keep His promises to us if we do not do our part. We are free to accept or reject the agreement, just as Israel later on chooses to reject it.

Our agreement with God also works the same way as His plan to save us from sin. God does not force people to be saved. God never removes our free choice. In the same way, God does not force His agreement on anyone. God freely offers His agreement to all humans. God invites every person to accept it. When we do, then we must obey God. We do not obey God to earn His blessings. We obey God to show that we accept the blessings God wants to give us. Israel should obey so that God can keep His promises to them. The times that Israel obeys God show us the blessings that we, too, can have if we obey. Obedience does not earn us the blessings that God promises. Our obedience makes it possible for God to give us the blessings He promises.