---
title:  Further Thought
date:  21/05/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Controversy,” pages 607, 608 in The Desire of Ages; and “The Law and the Covenants,” pages 363–373, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

How does Matthew 22:34–40 help us to understand better (1) the meaning of the law of God and the important part it has in His agreement? And (2) the idea that the agreement is the same as our being in a partnership or friendship with God?

“Only the strength of Jesus and His mercy can make us strong enough to obey the law of God [read Romans 8:3, 4]. But love must first be in our hearts. We cannot obey without love. It is impossible to try. Obedience without love is worth nothing. But when love fills our hearts, then we can live in peace with the plan of God for our lives. The commandments show us His plan for how we should live.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 5, page 484, adapted.

“God shows us how we should live our lives. He gives us this plan in His holy law. God announces that this law will not change. His law always will show us the right way to live until the end of time. Jesus came to give honor to the law and show that the law is important to our lives. Jesus taught that the law is built on love: the love of humans for God and the love of humans for each other. Jesus showed that we must obey the law. This is our whole reason for living. In His own life, Jesus was a living example of obedience to the law of God. In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus taught us that the law asks more from us than only good behavior. The law shows us that we also must have clean minds and hearts.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 505, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Love and fear: both feelings can bring us to God. But which one of the two feelings will cause us to stay with Him in a saving friendship forever?`

`Jesus commands us, “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul [spirit], and all your mind’ ” (Matthew 22:37, ERV). Why is this rule the first commandment and also the most important commandment too?`