---
title:  Governed by Law
date:  09/07/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Deuteronomy 6:1–9**

**Governed by Law**

What goes up must come down. You will recognize this statement as a formulation of Newton’s third law of motion. This and other laws of nature govern the behavior of natural phenomena. The concept of law, then, is endemic to our existence. Protesting the laws of nature does not change the law. Rather, we must conform our lives to live within the sphere of the laws or risk losing our lives altogether. If you ascend to a great height, you had better have a plan for how to descend from said height. Failure to plan for the descent will have life-threatening consequences.

Governments also enact laws to ensure the smooth functioning of society. Human interaction is governed by legislation that facilitates the protection of life and property. Without laws, those who are weaker are disproportionately mistreated, with no redress.

Whereas philosophers like Hobbes, Locke, and Rousseau would credit social contract theory for the development of laws governing human interaction, Scripture paints a different picture. According to the Bible, the same God who created nature and instituted the laws of nature also created humanity to live happily only when subject to His divine law governing their nature. Central to the law as articulated in Scripture is the commandment to keep the Sabbath holy, and it is pivotal to a full appreciation of all God’s law.

This week we meditate on the law of God.

#### inScribe

Write out Deuteronomy 6:1–9 from the translation of your choice. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `