---
title:  A Talking Point
date:  10/07/2022
---

#### inGest

A “talking point” is defined as a subject of discussion. During political campaigns, the economy usually emerges as the number-one talking point. In cases of sports teams trading players, the talking point may be the players’ physical health.

The concept of a talking point runs throughout the Decalogue. After forty years of wilderness wandering, and within striking distance of the Promised Land, the Israelites received three speeches, or sermons, by Moses. The speeches reviewed the desert wanderings, urged the people to follow Yahweh, and gave reassurance that if they sinned against God, they would be accepted on condition of repentance.

Early in the first speech, Moses reviewed the Ten Commandments, then followed up with an extended exposition in chapters 5 to 11 of Deuteronomy. He offered this admonition: “And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up” (Deut. 6:6, 7, KJV).

The emphasized activities do not only occur on Sabbath; they are daily events. Consequently, instruction in the law was a daily requirement—a heaven-ordained talking point!

Of the Ten Commandments, none was more central than the Sabbath commandment. In its wording, the Israelites were instructed that neither heads of homes, nor children, nor service animals, nor guests were to work on that day (Exod. 20:10). This surely required “instruction in righteousness” (2 Tim. 3:16). Genuine obedience does not occur by osmosis.

Especially upon parents was placed the solemn burden of keeping the way of God constantly before their children. The Decalogue, and particularly the Sabbath, was to be the curriculum for the home. Why the Sabbath? Because it acquainted them with the Mighty God, with His title (Creator), and with the sphere of His sovereignty—the universe. It is in knowing God that salvation is possible (John 17:3). No commandment reveals God more than the Sabbath commandment. And the commandments are “the whole duty of man” (Eccles. 12:13, KJV).

Ellen White wrote, “I saw the ten commandments written on them [the tables of stone] with the finger of God. On one table were four, and on the other six. The four on the first table shone brighter than the other six. But the fourth, the Sabbath commandment, shone above them all; for the Sabbath was set apart to be kept in honor of God’s holy name. The holy Sabbath looked glorious—a halo of glory was all around it.” (Ellen G. White, Maranatha (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1976), 245.)

May this glorious light illumine the path of the reader daily, hourly, moment by moment.

` `