---
title:  Head and Hand
date:  11/07/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Only one restriction was given to Adam in the Garden of Eden: “And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, ‘Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat; but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die’ ” (Gen. 2:16, 17). However, since sin is the transgression of the law (1 John 3:4; Rom. 4:15), and there was no sin before Adam and Eve ate of the forbidden fruit, then we may rightly surmise that Adam and Eve kept all of the Ten Commandments in Eden. Demonstrably, they kept the first three and the last six and by inference the fourth as well.

One might deduce that God’s law was written on their hearts, and this is why they did not sin (Ps. 119:11). No one needed to tell them not to kill because they wanted only to foster life. It was not necessary to instruct them not to take God’s name in vain because they loved and trusted God so well that they could only sing His praises. Before the entrance of sin into the world, it was not necessary to articulate what humanity did naturally.

Obedience to the sole restriction placed upon them would demonstrate that Adam and Eve continued to live in harmony with God’s law. For instance, the very choice to obey honored God as required by the first commandment and honored Him as a parent as stipulated by the fifth commandment. To eat of the fruit would be tantamount to killing oneself, so obeying the restriction was abstaining from taking life as required by the sixth commandment.

Once they left the Garden of Eden, the very first story we read is of murder and lies (Gen. 4:1–10). We do not have a list of Ten Commandments, but based on Cain’s snarky retort when God asked where his brother was (Gen. 4:9), we know that he knew full well that murdering his brother was wrong. Throughout Genesis we see evidence that God’s law, though not in the form enshrined at Sinai, was known (e.g., Gen. 20:6–9; 26:5; 28:7; 35:1, 2, 4; 44:8). During the exile in Egypt, the knowledge of God’s law had become diluted, and it became necessary to codify it at Sinai.

On the occasion of reiterating the law in the book of Deuteronomy, Moses explains that the law is for our good: “And the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God, for our good always, that He might preserve us alive, as it is at this day” (Deut. 6:24). To fully benefit from it, Israel must not only know the law intellectually, but God said, “Bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes” (Deut. 6:8, KJV). While the Jews in Christ’s day took this instruction literally and wore a bound copy of the law on their head and on their wrist, the directions pointed to a deeper concept. Everything that we do is represented by the hand, and binding the law on one’s hand meant that God’s people were to refrain from wicked actions and engage in acts of mercy. Furthermore, God’s law between the eyes meant that one’s worldview ought to filter through the lens of the law of God.

` `