---
title:  The Sabbath Stumble
date:  13/07/2022
---

#### inVite

The first lesson in these “Reflections on the Sabbath” discussed the importance of the fourth commandment at the close of time. At that time, all of humanity will be called to decide whether they will yield their allegiance to God by honoring His seventh-day Sabbath or if they will accept the spurious counterfeit that the devil will enforce.

There are those who will default to the counterfeit because they will not choose God. But then there are those who will claim to be followers of God and yet refuse to keep His signature Sabbath. This group would purport to keep God’s commandments while shunning the fourth. As James puts it, “For whoever shall keep the whole law, and yet stumble in one point, he is guilty of all” (James 2:10). You would have to be above God to decide which parts of His law are important and which parts are obsolete. When God in Christ came to this earth to give us the clearest revelation of Himself, He never diminished the importance of any portion of the law (cf. Matt. 5:17, 18).

With respect to the Sabbath, Jesus made it His custom to attend worship at the synagogue on the Sabbath (Luke 4:16). He never instructed His disciples to the contrary, because even after His ascension, His followers continued likewise (Acts 18:4). However, there was contention over how Sabbath was to be kept (Luke 6:2). It was Christ who hallowed the Sabbath day at the beginning (Gen. 2:1–3; John 1:1–3, 14), so who better to teach us how to truly keep it holy?

While in Jerusalem one Sabbath, Jesus sees a paralytic at the pool of Bethesda and heals him (John 5:1–7). Jesus knows that the Pharisees would take issue with a man carrying a burden on the Sabbath day (John 5:10). Knowing this full well, He not only heals the man but tells him, “Take up your bed and walk” (John 5:8). It was Christ’s purpose to illustrate the true meaning of Sabbath rest and to elevate the law (John 5:17).

True to form, the Jews reprimand the healed man for carrying his bed on the Sabbath day, and he responds by informing them that he only did so in obedience to the One who had healed him (John 5:11). When the healed man later finds out that it was Jesus who had healed him, he hastens to inform the Jews (John 5:15). This controversy over the Sabbath leads to the Jews plotting Christ’s demise (John 5:16)—as it will likewise lead to persecution of Christ’s followers in the last days.

In Christ’s day, the controversy was over how to keep the Sabbath holy. At the close of time, the controversy will revolve around when to keep the Sabbath. God has made both plain in His word. In humble submission to Him, those who would keep His commandments as did Jesus will not deviate from what He has plainly stated.

` `