---
title:  Divine “Magnet” 
date:  22/03/2021
---

`Read Isaiah 66:1–19. Keeping in mind the time in which Isaiah wrote, what is the basic message he is giving here?`

Through the prophet, God reiterates the appeal and warning that permeates the book: God will save and restore the humble, who tremble at His word (Isa. 66:2, 5). As in Isaiah 40:1, He will comfort them (Isa. 66:13). But He will destroy those who rebel against Him. These include hypocrites of ritual, whose sacrifices He rejects (Isa. 66:3, 4; compare Isa. 1:10–15), as well as those who hate and reject His faithful ones (Isa. 66:5). They also include those who practice pagan abominations (Isa. 66:17) like those practiced at the temple in Jerusalem (Ezek. 8:7–12).

`Look at Isaiah 66:3. What is this text saying? What spiritual principles are being revealed here? How might the same idea be expressed, but in the context of contemporary Christianity and worship? `

How does God serve as a magnet to draw the nations to Himself? Isa. 66:18, 19.

Following the destruction of His enemies (Isa. 66:14–17), God reveals His glory so that He becomes a magnet to draw people to Jerusalem (compare Isa. 2:2–4). He sets a “sign” among them, which is not specified here but apparently refers to the sign last mentioned by Isaiah: God gives His people joy and peace and restores their land (Isa. 55:12, 13). When He reveals His glory by restoring His people after destruction, this is a sign of His restored favor, just as He gave Noah the sign of the rainbow after the Flood (Gen. 9:13–17).

`Read Isaiah 66:5. What does it mean to tremble at His word? Why does the Lord want us to tremble at His word? If you don’t tremble, what might that say about the condition of your heart?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Heaven’s plan of salvation is broad enough to embrace the whole world. God longs to breathe into prostrate humanity the breath of life. And He will not permit any soul to be disappointed who is sincere in his longing for something higher and nobler than anything the world can offer. Constantly He is sending His angels to those who, while surrounded by circumstances the most discouraging, pray in faith for some power higher than themselves to take possession of them and bring deliverance and peace. In various ways God will reveal Himself to them and will place them in touch with providences that will establish their confidence in the One who has given Himself a ransom for all, “that they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep His commandments.” Psalm 78:7. . . .

“Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the Lord his God!” Psalm 146:5. “Turn you to the stronghold, ye prisoners of hope!” Zechariah 9:12. Unto all the honest in heart in heathen lands—“the upright” in the sight of Heaven—“there ariseth light in the darkness.” Psalm 112:4. God hath spoken: “I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not; I will lead them in paths that they have not known: I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them, and not forsake them.” Isaiah 42:16.—_Prophets and Kings_, pp. 377, 378.

Christ delights to take apparently hopeless material, those whom Satan has debased and through whom he has worked, and make them the subjects of His grace. He rejoices to deliver them from suffering and from the wrath that is to fall upon the disobedient. He makes His children His agents in the accomplishment of this work, and in its success, even in this life, they find a precious reward.

But what is this compared with the joy that will be theirs in the great day of final revealing? “Now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face;” now we know in part, but then we shall know even as also we are known. 1 Corinthians 13:12.

It is the reward of Christ’s workers to enter into His joy. That joy, to which Christ Himself looks forward with eager desire, is presented in His request to His Father: “I will that they also, whom Thou hast given Me, be with Me where I am.” John 17:24.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 6, pp. 308, 309.