---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/03/2021
---

On the final cleansing of Planet Earth from sin, read Ellen G. White, “The Controversy Ended,” in The Great Controversy, pp. 662–678.

“And the years of eternity, as they roll, will bring richer and still more glorious revelations of God and of Christ. As knowledge is progressive, so will love, reverence, and happiness increase. The more men learn of God, the greater will be their admiration of His character. As Jesus opens before them the riches of redemption and the amazing achievements in the great controversy with Satan, the hearts of the ransomed thrill with more fervent devotion, and with more rapturous joy they sweep the harps of gold; and ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands of voices unite to swell the mighty chorus of praise.

“ ‘And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I saying, Blessing, and honor, and glory, and power, be unto Him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever.’ Revelation 5:13.

“The great controversy is ended. Sin and sinners are no more. The entire universe is clean. One pulse of harmony and gladness beats through the vast creation. From Him who created all, flow life and light and gladness, throughout the realms of illimitable space. From the minutest atom to the greatest world, all things, animate and inanimate, in their unshadowed beauty and perfect joy, declare that God is love.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 678.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why is the promise of eternal life in a new heaven and a new earth so basic to our Christian belief? What good would our faith be without that promise?`

`Read 2 Peter 3:10–14. How do these verses reflect the same idea presented in Isaiah 66?`

**Summary**

Isaiah presents a vision of staggering scope. Not only would God purge and restore His community of faith, He would enlarge its borders to encompass all nations. Ultimately the re-creation of His community would lead to the re-creation of Planet Earth, where His presence would be the ultimate comfort of His people.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Faith I Live By_, “The Knowledge of God Covers the Earth,” p. 371;

_Our High Calling_, “A Superficial Experience Not Enough,” p. 330.