---
title:  Seeing The Goldsmith’s Face
date:  16/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Romans 8:29; Job 23:1–10; Matthew 25:31–46; Daniel 12:1–12; Ephesians 4:11–16.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “All of us have no cloth over our faces. People can see that we have some of the bright and wonderful light that the Lord has. And we are becoming brighter and brighter, more and more like [the same as] him. It is the Lord, the Spirit, who does this [makes us the same as God]” (2 Corinthians 3:18, WE).

AMY CARMICHAEL took a group of children to a goldsmith in India. The goldsmith kept a big fire burning in his workshop. The goldsmith put a small square of baked clay in the fire. On the clay square, the goldsmith put salt, some special fruit, and brick dust. Then he lit the mix on fire. In the middle of this burning mix was a lump of gold. The fire burned up the dirt and tiny rocks inside the gold. The goldsmith used some special tools to remove the gold from the fire. Then the goldsmith checked the gold. If the gold was not ready, the goldsmith put it back in the fire. Then he made the fire burn hotter. The group of children asked the goldsmith, “How do you know when the gold is ready?” The goldsmith answered, “When I can see my face in it.”—Amy Carmichael, Learning of God (Fort Washington, PA: Christian Literature Crusade, 1989), page 50, adapted.

God wants to get us ready, too. He wants to make us the same as the gold. God wants to see Himself in us. How does God change us so that we look the same as He does? He permits us to suffer and to have difficult tests of faith in this life. These tests show us what is in our hearts.