---
title:  Made To Look The Same As God 
date:  17/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“God knew from the beginning who would put their trust in Him. So He chose them and made them to be like [the same as] His Son. Christ was first and all those who belong to God are His brothers” (Romans 8:29, NLV).

In the beginning, God made us so that we looked and behaved the same as He does. We were copies of Himself. But then sin ruined the copy.

`How has sin destroyed God’s holy beauty in us?`

We all have been ruined by sin (Romans 3:10–19). God’s plan is to make us new again. Today’s Bible verse shows us God’s plan. First, we must give our lives fully to the control of the Holy Spirit. Then God can change us “to be like [the same as] His Son” (Romans 8:29, NLV).

But there’s more. “God wants our hearts to become the same as His heart. God is honored in front of all the angels when we become the same as He is. Jesus is honored, too.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 671, adapted.

`What does the quote above from Ellen G. White mean to you? For help in answering the question, also read Job 1; Matthew 5:16; 1 Corinthians 4:9; Ephesians 3:10.`

As Christians, we must always remember that we are in the middle of the worldwide war between God and Satan. This war happens all around us. We see the fight in many different places and in different ways on this earth. But there is so much more that we can’t see. Even so, we understand that we have an important part in this war. We can bring honor to the name of Jesus by the way we live.

`Make this picture in your mind: You are on a big playing field inside a stadium. The seats are filled with angels. On the seats to the right, you see angels who are loyal to God. On the seats to the left, you see the angels who fell with Lucifer. Think about your life for the past 24 hours. If everything you did that day happened on the field for everyone to see, which group of angels will cheer the most? What does your answer tell you about yourself?`