---
title:  Staying Strong During Times Of Suffering
date:  18/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As Christians, we know that we are in a war. We know about the evil forces out there. We may not see them. But we can feel them working against us in our lives. So, we must stay strong in faith. We must trust God “who can’t be seen” (Hebrews 11:27, NIrV).

`Read about Job’s suffering in Job 23:1–10. What upsets Job the most about his suffering? What doesn’t Job understand? At the same time, what does Job accept in faith?`

For sure, Job suffers much. But he continues to trust in the Lord. Job refuses to give up hope or faith in God. What was one of the things that kept Job’s faith strong? Gold. No, not a gold medal or award. Job was looking to his future reward from God. Job knew that he must stay strong in faith. Then God can make him the same as gold. We don’t know how much Job knew about the real reasons for his suffering. But we do know that Job stayed strong during his suffering. This suffering was the same as a fire. Job stayed strong in the fire because he obeyed God.

Are you afraid of the “fire”? Do you worry about how “hot” or bad things will get? Maybe your experience is the same as Job’s. You don’t understand the reasons for the “fire” or test. Maybe you are having trouble at your new job or with your new house. Maybe people are mean and nasty to you at work. Or maybe your own family is not nice to you. Maybe you have been ill or lost a lot of money. You may have a hard time understanding the reasons for your suffering. But remember, you don’t need to understand what happens to you. God can use these hard times to give you a new heart and help you to become as He is.

What gives Job hope to stay alive? Job wants to be the same as gold that is made valuable in the fire. This hope helps Job stay strong during all his troubles. In the middle of all his pain and suffering, Job understood that God wanted to change him and make him better. For sure, he didn’t understand everything that happened to him. But Job knew that his tests will make his faith in God stronger.

`How have tests and suffering caused your faith to grow stronger? God uses other ways to help your heart become the same as His. What are they?`