---
title:  Jesus’ Final Words 
date:  19/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jesus is in Jerusalem, about to die. Matthew tells us about the things that Jesus teaches His followers before He goes to the cross. Jesus tells His followers picture stories. Two of these picture stories include “The Ten Sleeping Girls” and “The Sheep and the Goats.” These picture stories show us how we should live as we wait for Jesus to come. All around us we see signs that show us that Jesus is about to come soon. So, these picture stories are very important to us today.

You can read the picture story about “The Ten Sleeping Girls” in Matthew 25:1–13. In the story, the oil is a word picture for the Holy Spirit. Ellen G. White agrees. She also says that the oil shows us something else. The oil shows us the new thoughts, feelings, and behavior that God wants to give to us.

**Read the picture story about “The Ten Sleeping Girls” in Matthew 25:1–13. How does the story change if the oil has two different meanings? If we see the oil as the Holy Spirit, what will the story mean? Or what will the story mean if we see the oil as a new life in Christ, with new thoughts, feelings, and behavior?**

`Holy Spirit`

`New Heart`

`Read the picture story about the sheep and the goats in Matthew 25:31–46. What important rules does the king use to separate the sheep from the goats?`

Do you see the reason the king separates the sheep from the goats? The reason is how they behave, think, feel, and act. For sure, Jesus doesn’t teach us that we are saved by our good behavior. But we can see that our behavior is important in God’s plan to save us. Our lives and behavior will show that Jesus saves us.

`What type of person are you when no one is watching? What does the answer tell you about the changes you need to make?`