---
title:  The Wise 
date:  20/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Yesterday, we looked at why good behavior is important for Christians as they wait for the Second Coming. Today, we will look at why good behavior is important for the people who are alive at the Second Coming.

`Read Daniel 12:1–10. What do these verses talk about? What time in earth’s history do these verses show us? Most important, how will God’s people behave during these times? How is their behavior different from the behavior of evil people? Also read Revelation 22:11 for more information.`

The angel tells Daniel how things will be on the earth before Jesus comes back. There will be terrible troubles and a time of suffering worse than any other time in earth’s history. In Daniel 12:3, 10, we see a picture of God’s holy people and the evil people during this time. Do you see that “ ‘evil people will continue to be evil’ ” (Daniel 12:10, ERV)? But “ ‘the wise people will shine as bright as the sky’ ” (Daniel 12:3, ERV). The wise have been “ ‘made pure [holy; free from sin] . . . they will make themselves [their spirit, hearts, and minds] clean’ ” (Daniel 12:3, ERV). “ ‘There will be a time of much trouble, the worst time since nations [countries; people groups] have been on earth’ ” (Daniel 12:1, ERV). The evil people don’t have any understanding. But God’s holy people are wise. God’s people understand the real cause of the trouble on the earth.

Proverbs tells us, “If you really want to gain [get] knowledge, you must begin [start] by having [showing] respect for the Lordord” (Proverbs 1:7, NIrV). For sure, we can say that “the wise” are wise because they understand the time of trouble that happens on the earth. They are not surprised. They see this time of trouble coming because they study the Bible. Most important, they know that they have done everything the Lord asked them to do to get ready for this time. On the other hand, the wicked become more stubborn. They continue to fight against God. They continue in their evil ways.

These verses are important because they show us a group of people who have been made clean and holy.

`What important rules do you see in Daniel 12:1–10? How do these rules help us now to understand what it means to be made clean and holy today?`