---
title:  Our Hearts And Our Communities
date:  21/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Ephesians 4:11–16. What important Bible truth does Paul share in these verses? Why is the church so important to our faith and our spiritual experience?`

When Paul writes to the Ephesians, he says the church is much the same as a body. Jesus is the same as the head. His people are the same as the different body parts. Look at Ephesians 4:13. Do you see the reason for the church? God made the church so that we will become the same as “a full-grown man . . . to look just like [the same as] Christ [Jesus] and have all his perfection [life free from sin]” (Ephesians 4:13, ERV). For sure, we need each other for that!

Often, we must stand alone for our faith. At the same time, Paul wants us to understand an important Bible truth. We learn about Jesus and His perfect life when we work together and fellowship with each other.

`In Ephesians 4:11–16, what does Paul say must happen before we may show Jesus in all His perfect beauty in the church?`

`How does the church show the holy life of Jesus? Read Ephesians 3:10 for the answer. How does this picture look different from only one person who shows the holy life of Jesus? What is important about the church in the worldwide war between God and Satan?`

`For sure, it is easy to be nice when you are with strangers. But it’s much harder to be nice to people you know well or don’t really like, right? When we show these people God’s love, we prove Bible truth. Why is this proof so powerful?`