---
title:  Further Thought
date:  22/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “God Promises Us a New Heart of Flesh,” page 100, in Sons and Daughters of God; “ ‘To Meet the Bridegroom,’ ” pages 405–421, in Christ’s Object Lessons; and “The Time of Trouble,” pages 613–634, in The Great Controversy.

“God gives us very important work. He wants us to show other people that we have new thoughts, feelings, and behavior. Now, more than ever, we must study hard how to do that.The church has never before lived in times as difficult as now. We must answer very important questions about Bible truth. Young men and women will need to stand against sins and evil far worse than any other evil in history.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 225, adapted.

What must we do to get ready for the Second Coming? We must ask Jesus to change our hearts. Then we will learn to be patient when we suffer. “In the picture story about the Ten Sleeping Girls, five of the young girls ask for oil. But they don’t get any. What does this part of the story show us? We see these five girls didn’t get ready for the Second Coming. So, they can’t stand strong in the time of trouble. They can’t go to their neighbors and say, ‘Give me your thoughts, feelings, and behavior. Or I will be lost.’ The wise girls can’t give their oil for the lamps of the silly girls. The lamps of the five girls are about to go out. What other Bible truth does this part of the story show? We can’t give someone our thoughts, feelings, and good behavior. We can’t sell these things to anyone or buy them from anyone. We must get them from God. The Lord gives every person a chance to get a new heart before the time of trouble starts. We can only get this new heart by hard tests and difficult experiences. We must learn lessons from Jesus, our Teacher. Then we will learn how to be patient when we suffer. We will know how to show faith to do what everyone says is impossible.”—The Youth’s Instructor, January 16, 1896, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What does it mean to “grow” new thoughts, feelings, and behavior? How can you work with God to make this change?`

`Helen Keller was deaf and blind from an early age. She wrote, “The heart and mind cannot be grown in a life free from pain and suffering. Difficult tests and suffering make us strong, gives us wisdom, and success.”—Leadership, volume 17, number 4. Do you agree? Explain your answer.`