---
title:  False Teachings
date:  19/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Luke 16:19–31; Luke 23:43; Philippians 1:21–24; 1 Peter 3:13–20; Revelation 6:9–11.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘You carefully study the Scriptures [Old and New Testaments] because you think that they give you eternal [everlasting] life. Those are the same Scriptures that tell about me!’ ” (John 5:39, ICB).

PETER SAYS, “Always be ready to answer everyone who asks you to explain about the hope you have” (1 Peter 3:15, ERV). Paul adds, “Preach the Word of God [the Good News about Jesus]. Preach it when it [life] is easy and people want to listen and when it [life] is hard and people do not want to listen. Preach it [the Good News] all the time. Use the Word of God [the Bible] to show people they are wrong. Use the Word of God to help them do right. You must be willing to wait for people to understand what you teach as you teach them. The time will come when people will not listen to the truth. They will look for teachers who will tell them only what they want to hear” (2 Timothy 4:2, 3, NLV).

When we study difficult verses, we should do what Jesus did. “Jesus always said what people needed to hear. But Jesus always shared the truth with them in love. . . . Jesus was never mean. He never said a nasty word to anyone. Jesus never hurt anyone’s feelings on purpose. He didn’t make people feel bad for their mistakes.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 353, adapted. This week, we will study verses that people use to teach the false idea that a person’s spirit continues to live after he or she dies.