---
title:  The Rich Man And Lazarus 
date:  20/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the picture story about the rich man and Lazarus in Luke 16:19–31. How do we know this story is not real? Why must we not use this story to explain what happens after we die?`

Some Bible thinkers suggest that the picture story about the rich man and Lazarus is real. They say this story shows us what happens when someone dies. But this idea is different from Bible truth.

First, this story teaches us that heaven and hell are close enough to allow people in both places to talk with each other (Luke 16:23–31). This story also shows that a person’s spirit continues to live after his body dies. The story shows that the dead person has real eyes, a finger, a tongue, and feels thirst.

If this Bible story shows us what happens after we die, then heaven can’t be a place of joy and happiness. Not when the saved can closely watch the endless sufferings of their lost loved ones and talk to them (Luke 16:23–31). How can a mother be happy in heaven while she watches her beloved child suffer in hell? This idea is crazy! Also, how can God keep His promise to us that there will be no more tears or pain in heaven (Revelation 21:4)?

That’s why many modern Bible thinkers believe that the story about the rich man and Lazarus is a picture story. So, not every part of the story is real. George E. Ladd is a Bible thinker who feels this way. He says that the rich man and Lazarus is “a picture story that shows us Jewish thinking about the rich and the poor. So, we should not think Jesus uses this story to teach us anything about what happens when we die.”—G. E. Ladd, “Eschatology,” in The New Bible Dictionary, edited by J. D. Douglas (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1962), page 388, adapted.

The picture story about the rich man and Lazarus shows us two men who are very different from each other. There is the rich man who wears expensive clothes. And there is a poor man named Lazarus whose body is covered with sores (Luke 16:19, 20). The story teaches us that (1) our riches in this life don’t give us everlasting life. And (2) we decide to accept or reject everlasting life in this life. We can’t change our minds after we die (Luke 16:25, 26).

`Read Jesus’ words in Luke 16:31. What does Jesus say about how much the Bible should control our lives?`