---
title:  “ ‘today You Will Be With Me In Paradise [Heaven]’ ” 
date:  21/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Many Bible thinkers use Luke 23:43 as proof that a person’s spirit continues to live after he or she dies. Jesus says to the thief on the cross, “ ‘I promise you, today you will be with me in paradise’ ” (Luke 23:43, ERV). This verse is written the same in almost every Bible. So, we may think that on the very day Jesus died, Jesus and the thief were together in heaven. But we must remember that many Bible translations are made by thinkers who believe in the false teaching that the spirit continues to live forever after death. So, is the translation of Luke 23:43 that we just read the best way to write this verse?

`Compare Jesus’ promise to the thief on the cross in Luke 23:43 with Jesus’ promise to Mary Magdalene in John 20:17 and to His followers in John 14:1–3. How should we understand Jesus’ promise to the thief? How do Jesus’ promises to Mary and His followers help us answer this question?`

Jesus’ words to Mary Magdalene show that Jesus hadn’t gone to see His Father in heaven (John 20:17). So, we can see that we shouldn’t think that Jesus and the thief went on the same day to heaven. Jesus also tells His followers that He will take them to heaven only at His Second Coming (John 14:1–3). So, these verses in John are more proof that Jesus didn’t go to heaven with the thief when they died.

What is the best way to write Luke 23:43 then? We should write the verse this way: “ ‘Today, I tell you, you will be with Me in Heaven, for sure.’ ” When we write the verse this way, we see that Jesus is making the promise to the thief on that day. Jesus promises the thief, right then and there, that he will be saved. Jesus is not saying the thief will be in heaven “today.” Jesus is saying “I promise you today that someday you will be with Me in heaven.”

`Read the story about the thief that Jesus saves on the cross (Luke 23:39–43). The thief is a sinner. He has nothing to offer Jesus. And what does Jesus do? He offers everlasting life to this poor thief. How does this story show us that Jesus saves us when we believe in His mercy? Why should we remember that our good behavior does not save us?`