---
title:  To Leave This Life And Be With Jesus 
date:  22/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read what Paul says in Philippians 1:21–24 and 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18. When did Paul expect to “be with Christ [Jesus]” (Philippians 1:23, ERV)?`

When Paul says, “I want to leave this life and be with Christ [Jesus]” (Philippians 1:23, ERV), what is he teaching us? Does Paul suggest that after he dies, he will go live with Jesus and that his spirit will continue to live? Of course not! In this verse, Paul talks about his wish to die because this life is full of troubles and suffering. So, Paul wants to be with Jesus. This verse does not teach that Paul expects to go to heaven as soon as he dies. Paul knows that he will not get everlasting life until the Second Coming (2 Timothy 4:8).

Paul also “says that the next thing he will know after dying will be the Second Coming. Jesus will come in the clouds of heaven. Jesus will wake up the dead. Then Paul will ‘be with the Lord’ (1 Thessalonians 4:17, ERV). We should understand that the Bible writers in Paul’s day often talk about death and everlasting life together.”—Andrews Study Bible, note on Philippians 1:23, page 1,555, adapted. What is Paul talking about in 2 Timothy 4? Paul’s death and the Second Coming, of course.

But why does Paul want to die? Paul wants to rest from all his troubles and the pain in his body. Also, Paul knows that he will get a crown someday from God. Paul says, “Now there is a crown waiting for me. It [this crown] is given to those who are right with God” (2 Timothy 4:6–8, NIrV). For sure, Paul really didn’t want to die. Paul wanted to rest until Jesus woke him up from the dead.

`When our life is hard, we often want to close our eyes in death. Nobody wants to suffer. Make a picture in your mind: you are sleeping. Then Jesus wakes you up! How does this wonderful Bible promise help us understand what Paul was saying in Philippians 1:21–24?`