---
title:  Preaching To The Spirits In Prison
date:  23/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`There is a strange story in 1 Peter 3. How did Jesus preach “to the spirits in prison . . . while Noah was building the big boat” (1 Peter 3:19, 20, ERV)? For the answer, read 1 Peter 3:13–20 and also Genesis 4:10.`

Many modern Bible thinkers don’t understand 1 Peter 3:13–20. They think that the spirit continues to live on after the body dies. So, their false belief causes them to misunderstand what Peter says. They believe that Jesus visited hell after He died. There, Jesus preached to the spirits of the people who lived before the Flood.

This is a silly idea. We can’t accept it because the Bible teaches us that we don’t get any more chances to be saved after we die (Hebrews 9:27, 28). So, why would Jesus preach to people who have no chance to be saved?

This false idea about spirits in hell doesn’t match the Bible teaching that the dead stay dead in the grave until Jesus wakes them up (Job 14:10–12; Psalm 146:4; Ecclesiastes 9:5, 10; 1 Corinthians 15:16–18; 1 Thessalonians 4:13–15).

Let’s pretend that Peter really meant that Jesus went down into hell while His body was dead in the grave. If Jesus did visit hell, why did Jesus preach only to the spirits who lived before the Flood? Were there no other people burning in hell who lived after the Flood that Jesus could preach to?

We shouldn’t believe that Peter is saying that Jesus preached to the fallen angels in Noah’s day. The Bible says that the “spirits in prison” didn’t obey God in the past (1 Peter 3:19, 20). This information doesn’t mean that the evil angels confessed their sins and became saved. The Bible says that the evil angels continue to disobey God today (Ephesians 6:12; 1 Peter 5:8). Jude tells us that “the Lord has kept these angels in darkness. They are bound [tied; locked in] with everlasting chains, to be judged on the great day [the day when God judges everyone]” (Jude 1:6, ICB). These evil angels have no chance to be saved.

We should understand that the “spirits in prison” (1 Peter 3:19) are “the people” (1 Peter 3:20, NLV) in Noah’s day that God was trying to save. The word written as “spirit” in 1 Peter 3:19 means living people who can learn and accept God’s offer to save them. The words “in prison” are a word picture that shows us the prison of sin, not a real prison (Romans 6:1–23; Romans 7:7–25). So then, how did Jesus preach to the people who lived before the Flood? Jesus preached to them in Noah’s words (2 Peter 2:5).