---
title:  The Spirits Under The Altar 
date:  24/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read what John says in Revelation 6:9–11. What does John mean when he says that the spirits of dead Christians cry under the altar? How can the spirits of dead people cry if they already are dead and sleeping?`

In Revelation 6, Jesus, the Lamb, opens the 5th lock on the roll of paper. This roll of paper shows God’s people what will happen to His church in the future. When the 5th lock is opened, something surprising happens. We see the spirits of Christians who were killed because of their faith. These spirits are under an altar. They cry to God to punish the people who killed them (Revelation 6:9–11). Some Bible thinkers believe that the altar is the same altar of burning perfume that we read about when the 7th lock is opened (Revelation 8:1–6). But the 5th lock shows us blood, not perfume, in Revelation 6:9–11 (read KJV or NKJV). So, we see that John talks about the altar of burnt offering. The blood of killed animal offerings was poured at the bottom of this altar (Leviticus 4:18, 30, 34). The blood of those offerings was poured around the altar. In the same way, the blood of the saints is poured at the bottom of God’s altar when God’s holy people are killed. They die because they are loyal to Jesus (Revelation 6:9; also read Revelation 12:17 and Revelation 14:12).

The spirits under the altar are a word picture, too. But what if we said they were not? What if we said they were real people? Then we must accept that these people aren’t enjoying life in heaven. Why? Because they continue to cry out to God to punish the ones who killed them. So, these people aren’t living a happy life in heaven.

Also, we must remember that God didn’t give John a view of heaven as it is. “There are no white, red, black, or light-

colored horses in heaven with riders who are going to war. Jesus doesn’t appear in heaven as a real lamb with a bleeding knife cut. The four animals in Daniel aren’t real animals with wings. . . . In the same way, there are no ‘spirits’ of people lying at the bottom of an altar in heaven. The whole vision is a word picture filled with symbols that show us Bible truth about the end-times.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 7, page 778, adapted.

So, the dead spirits that John saw under the altar don’t show us what happens after we die. The dead spirits show us a picture story about Christians who were killed for their faith in God.