---
title:  Further Thought
date:  25/11/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘A Great Gulf Fixed,’ ” pages 260–271, in Christ’s Object Lessons; “Calvary,” pages 749–752, in The Desire of Ages; and “Teachers as Examples of Christian Integrity,” page 504, in Fundamentals of Christian Education.

“In the picture story about the rich man and Lazarus, Jesus shows us that in this life men decide to accept or reject God’s forgiveness. God offers forgiveness to every person during this life. But if men waste their time pleasing self, they will be cut off from everlasting life. God will not give them a second chance after they die. By their own choice, people separate fully from God so that God can’t save them.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 260, adapted.

“Many Christians in the past were sent to live alone in mountains and deserts. Some of these Christians were left in prison to die. They were hungry and cold. Their jailers hurt them. During these times, the Christians felt that dying was the only way to end their suffering. They were filled with joy at the thought that God chose them to suffer for Jesus. Jesus died for them. The examples of these Christians will comfort and encourage God’s people during the time of trouble. This time of trouble will be an experience that no one has known before.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, page 213, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How can we understand the Bible verses we studied this week? How does sleep help us understand death and everlasting life?`

`What things are worth dying for today? What can we learn from people who are willing to give up their lives for the wrong reasons?`

`Think some more about the rich man and the poor man named Lazarus. When Jesus woke up from the dead, many people believed He was the Savior. Other people saw the same proof. But their hearts were hard. So, these people didn’t believe. What can we do to protect ourselves from having hard hearts?`