---
title:  Deuteronomy In The Later Writings Of The Bible
date:  04/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
2 Kings 22; Deuteronomy 10:12–15; Deuteronomy 4:23–29; Micah 6:1–8; Daniel 9:1–19.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘The LORD loved your ancestors very much. He loved them so much that he chose you, their descendants, to be his people. He chose you instead of any other nation, and you are still his chosen people today’ ” (Deuteronomy 10:15, ERV).

DID YOU KNOW that later writers in the Old Testament often used the words from earlier writers to show their ideas?

Let us look at an example from the Psalms. The writer of Psalm 81 says almost the exact words Moses wrote in his introduction to the Ten Commandments: “I, the Lord, am your God. I brought you out of Egypt” (Psalm 81:10, ERV).

All through the Old Testament, many writers talk about how God made the earth. These writers use the same words Moses wrote in Genesis 1. Just look at what Jeremiah says: “I looked at the earth. It was empty; there was nothing on it. I looked at the sky, and its light was gone” (Jeremiah 4:23, ERV; compare what Jeremiah wrote here to the words of Moses in Genesis 1:2).

Many Old Testament writers often talk about God and His agreement. So, we should not be surprised that they include parts of Deuteronomy in their own writings. The book of Deuteronomy is all about the special agreement. This week, we will see how other Bible writers use quotes from Deuteronomy. Which parts of Deuteronomy did these writers use? How important are their ideas for us today?