---
title:  The Book Of The Law 
date:  05/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Josiah became king of Judah when he was eight years old. He was king for 31 years, from 640 B.C. to 609 B.C. When Josiah was king for 18 years, something big happened. This happening changed the history of Israel for a long time.

`What lessons can we learn from 2 Kings 22?`

Bible experts believe that the “Book of the Law” in 2 Kings 22:8 (NIrV) is Deuteronomy. The book was lost for many years. Then it was found when Josiah was king.

“Josiah heard the warnings from the Book of the Law for the first time. His heart was deeply touched. Josiah understood the law in a new way. He saw that God gave Israel a choice between two ways: ‘ “life or death” ’ [Deuteronomy 30:19, ERV] and ‘ “blessings or curses” ’ [Deuteronomy 30:19, NIrV]. Josiah saw that God wanted to save His people fully, just as He saved them from Egypt. God promised to bless His people in the Land of Promise. He promised to make them the most powerful people on earth.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 393, adapted.

King Josiah tried very hard to please the Lord after that. Josiah “promised to follow the Lord and to obey his commands, the laws, and his rules. He promised to do this with all his heart and soul [spirit]” (2 Kings 23:3, ERV; read also Deuteronomy 4:29; Deuteronomy 6:5; Deuteronomy 10:12; and Deuteronomy 11:13). Josiah improved life in his land in many ways. “Josiah got rid of those [people] who got messages from people who had died. He got rid of those [people] who talked to the spirits of people who had died. He got rid of the statues of family gods and the statues of other gods. He got rid of everything else the Lord hates that was in Judah and Jerusalem. He did it to carry out what the law required. That law was written in the book that Hilkiah the priest had found in the Lord’s temple” (2 Kings 23:24, NIrV). Josiah also killed the religious leaders in Samaria who worshiped statues (2 Kings 23:20).

Josiah made many big changes. These changes show us just how far the people turned from God in their hearts.

`We want to serve the Lord with all our hearts, right? So, what things do we need to get rid of from our homes or churches so we can do that?`