---
title:  All Of Heaven Belongs To God 
date:  06/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Deuteronomy shows us that the law and the agreement are important to the friendship Israel had with God. The law and the agreement also were an important part of the plan God had for His “ ‘chosen’ ” people (Deuteronomy 7:6, NIrV; read also Deuteronomy 14:2; and Deuteronomy 18:5).

`Read Deuteronomy 10:12–15. These verses talk a lot about the law and the chosen people. What does the Bible mean by the words “ ‘the highest heavens’ ” (verse 14, ERV)? What idea does Moses show us by these words?`

We do not really know what “ ‘the highest [the very top part of] heavens’ ” means exactly. But we may guess that Moses uses these words to show us that God is a beautiful and powerful King. That is why Moses says that the sky and all of heaven, too, belongs to Him. So, the “ ‘highest heavens’ ” shows us that God has full control over everything in heaven and earth.

Read the verses below. Do you see that each verse in some way talks about the idea of the “highest heavens”? What is the message of each verse? How do the verses below show us the idea from Deuteronomy about the “highest heavens”?

1 Kings 8:27 ______________________________________________

Nehemiah 9:6 ______________________________________________

Psalm 148:4 _______________________________________________

In Nehemiah 9, we really see the idea about God from Deuteronomy. Nehemiah writes, “ ‘You are God. Lord, only you are God. You made the sky and the highest heavens and everything in them. You made the earth and everything on it. . . You made the seas and everything in them. You give life to everything. All the heavenly angels bow down and worship you’ ” (Nehemiah 9:6, ERV). In Nehemiah 9:3 (NIrV), “the Levites read parts of [from] the Book of the Law.” For sure, this must be the same book that Josiah heard in his time: the book of Deuteronomy. Now we can understand better why the Levites a few verses earlier talk about the “highest heavens.”