---
title:  Jeremiah And Deuteronomy 
date:  07/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Years ago, a young man wanted to find the “Truth.” He was willing to go wherever he needed to go to find it. His search led him to God the Father and His Son, Jesus. Then the young man became a Seventh-day Adventist. His favorite verse in the Bible was Jeremiah 29:13 (NIrV): “ ‘When you look for me with all your heart, you will find me.’ ”

`Read Deuteronomy 4:23–29. Why does God make this promise to Israel? What meaning does this promise have for us today, as Seventh-day Adventists?`

As we already have seen, the book of Deuteronomy was lost for a very long time until Josiah was king. During the time of Josiah, Jeremiah started his work for God. So, we can see that the book of Deuteronomy is very important to Jeremiah and his writings.

`Read Jeremiah 7:1–7. What does Jeremiah in these verses tell the people to do? How do these words from Jeremiah show us the message in Deuteronomy 4:23–29?`

Again and again in Deuteronomy, Moses tells the people that their success in Canaan is possible only if they obey. If the people disobey, then God will remove them from the land He gave them. Look at the warning in Jeremiah 7:4. This verse shows us that obedience is very important. Yes, God chose Israel. Yes, the temple of God was in their land. But if the people failed to obey God, then these two blessings will not save them.

Their obedience included being kind to strangers, orphans, and widows. Where does this idea come from? Deuteronomy, of course. Moses commanded the people: “ ‘Do what is fair for a stranger or a child whose parents are dead. Do not take the clothing of a woman whose husband has died to make sure she will pay what she owes’ ” (Deuteronomy 24:17, NLV; read also Deuteronomy 24:21; Deuteronomy 10:18, 19; and Deuteronomy 27:19).

`Read Jeremiah 4:4 and compare it to Deuteronomy 30:6. What is the message in these verses to the people of God? Why is the rule in these verses important to the lives of the people of God today?`