---
title:  What Does The Lord Want? 
date:  08/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Micah 6:1–8. (Also read Amos 5:24 and Hosea 6:6.) What does the Lord tell the people in these verses? How does His message show us the same ideas in Deuteronomy?`

Bible thinkers see in Micah 6:1–8 an idea named “the legal quarrel between God and Israel.” God has a quarrel with His people about His agreement. The people broke this agreement. So, the Lord takes His people to court. Micah explains that “ ‘The Lord has a complaint against his people’ ” (Micah 6:2, ERV). The word “complaint” in the Hebrew language shows a legal disagreement. This information tells us the Lord brings a legal charge against His people. This idea shows us that the agreement is really a contract about the law. We should not be surprised by this idea at all. The law was very important to the agreement God made with His people.

Do you see in the verses for today how Micah borrows language straight from Deuteronomy. Let us look at the quote from Moses that Micah uses: “ ‘Now, Israelites, listen [hear and obey]! What does the Lord your God really want from you? The Lord your God wants you to respect him and do what he says. He wants you to love him and to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul [mind]. So obey the laws and commands of the Lord that I am giving you today. These laws and commands are for your own good’ ” (Deuteronomy 10:12, 13, ERV). Now how does Micah say these verses? “ ‘O man, He has told you what is good. What does the Lord ask of you but to do what is fair and to love kindness [being kind], and to walk without pride with your God?’ ” (Micah 6:8, NLV). Micah wants the Israelites to be fair and to show people mercy.

`The verses we studied today from both Moses and Micah show us the most important thing that God wants from His people. He wants them to show mercy and to be kind. What good are all the animal gifts the people bring God if they hurt the poor? The people “ ‘want fields, so they take them. They want houses, so they take them. They cheat a man and take his house and his land’ ” (Micah 2:2, ERV). God chose Israel to show people His love. God wanted the people on the earth to say about Israel, “ ‘For sure this great nation is a wise and understanding people’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:6, NLV). That is why God wanted the Israelites to behave wisely and show everyone His mercy.`