---
title:  The Prayer Of Daniel 
date:  09/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

One of the most famous prayers in the Old Testament is Daniel 9. Daniel learns from the book of Jeremiah that the time for Israel to go home will happen soon. So, Daniel starts to pray for God to keep this promise to His people.

With tears, Daniel confesses his sins and the sins of Israel. At the same time, Daniel understands that Israel caused their own suffering. God was fair and right in His actions when He allowed Israel to be taken to Babylon.

`Read Daniel 9:1–19. What ideas do you see in these verses that come from Deuteronomy?`

The prayer of Daniel shows us exactly what God in Deuteronomy warned His people about if they broke His agreement. Twice, Daniel talks about the law of Moses (Daniel 9:11, 13). For sure, this law includes Deuteronomy.

As Deuteronomy tells us, the people will be made prisoners for disobeying the law Moses gave them from God. Then they will be carried away from their land (read Deuteronomy 4:27–31 and Deuteronomy 28). Everything happens just as Moses warned them (Deuteronomy 31:29).

Sadly, the people around the Jews now no longer said, “ ‘For sure this great nation is a wise and understanding people’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:6, NLV). Daniel says that the people who live around Jerusalem do not think well of Israel at all. “ ‘Jerusalem and Your people have been put to shame by everyone around us’ ” (Daniel 9:16, NLV).

Do you see that Daniel never asks the question, “Why?” Why is all this awful stuff happening to Israel? Daniel knows exactly why. He read the book of Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy helps Daniel and his people understand why the evil and suffering happened to them. Their experience is not bad luck. They lost their homes and land because they disobeyed God. At the same time, the prayer of Daniel shows us hope. God had not forgotten His people. He promised to bring them home again soon.

`Read Daniel 9:24–27. These verses tell us about the coming of Jesus and His dying on the cross. Why do you think God gives this special time message about the future to Daniel? What hope do you think this special message gave to Israel about their going home soon?`