---
title:  Further Thought
date:  10/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Big changes started to happen. During this time, King Josiah worked hard to destroy all the statues of false gods in the land. Josiah removed the worship of these false gods and their religions from the land, too. This job was almost too much for any human to do. The people had bowed down to the statues of wood and stone for so long. But Josiah did not give up. He worked hard to remove every last bit of false worship from the land and to make it clean.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 401, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Sure, we are Seventh-day Adventists. We have a present-truth message to give to the people on the earth. Present truth, you will remember, is the truth people need most for their time. As Seventh-day Adventists, we see ourselves chosen by God in the same way Israel was chosen to be His special people. We are correct to think this way about ourselves. God chose us to be His people and to do a special work for Him at this time. He gave us Bible truth that the people around us need to know about. God has honored us very much. How well are we doing the important work God has given us to do?`

`Put yourself in the shoes (or sandals) of Daniel. As Daniel, you saw the army of Babylon force their way into your country. You saw the enemy beat your people in war. They destroyed the temple of God. The temple was the center of religious faith for your whole country. Worse, your temple was destroyed by people who worshiped statues of false gods and the gods of nature. How do you think the book of Deuteronomy gave hope to Daniel (and any other Jew) during this time? How do you think the book of Deuteronomy helped Daniel understand all that happened and why it happened? In the same way, how does our understanding of the Bible help us deal with difficult times? Without our knowledge about Bible truth, these hard times might cause us to feel discouraged, for sure. What should our answer to all these questions teach us about how important the Bible is to our faith?`