---
title: 'The Cut That Can Kill'
date: 11/06/2023
---

As we’ve already learned, the animal powers in Revelation 13 and 14 show us a worldwide church with false teachings and false worship. But there’s more.

`Read about the sea-animal power shown in Revelation 13:5; Revelation 12:6, 14; and Daniel 7:25. How long will this religious kingdom have control?`

The wild sea animal will have control for many long years. In time messages in the Bible, a day is the same as one real year. In Numbers 14:34, we read “ ‘ “For each day you will carry your guilt a year” ’ ” (NLV). This verse shows us that one day is the same as a real year in time messages. God gives us this same rule in the book of Ezekiel: “ ‘One day equals [is the same as] one year’ ” (Ezekiel 4:6, ERV). So, if we use this Bible rule with the time message of 42 months in Revelation 13:5, we can use math to figure out how many real years 42 months will be. In Old Testament times, each month had 30 days. If we multiply 42 months by the number of days in a month, we get 1,260 days or real years.

In the a.d. 300s, the Roman king Constantine made the Christian religion legal. Constantine wanted to join the eastern part of his kingdom with the western part. So, he moved the capital of his kingdom in a.d. 330 to Byzantium. At that time, no one was left in control over Rome. So, the pope became Rome’s leader. The pope is the religious leader of the Roman Catholic Church. The pope became the most powerful leader of the church and a strong king. In a.d. 538, King Justinian controlled the Roman kingdom. In that year, Justinian made the leader of the Roman church the top leader of the whole Christian church. The Roman Catholic Church was very powerful, from a.d. 538 to a.d. 1798. During this time, the church’s leadership killed many people loyal to Bible truth. In a.d. 1798, General Berthier, one of Napoleon’s generals, made the pope a prisoner. General Berthier and his army “removed” the pope from his throne. In this way, the Roman Catholic Church leadership got a cut that could kill, just as the Bible said would happen. But this cut would heal in the future.

`How does the 42-month time message help us trust that God will keep His promises?`