---
title: 'The Day When Many People Stop Believing God'
date: 12/06/2023
---

`Read 2 Thessalonians 2:3, 4, 9–12. In these verses, Paul talks about the end times. What does Paul say will happen? What does Paul tell us about the sea-animal power?`

Paul warns Christians about a time when “many people will stop believing God” (2 Thessalonians 2:3, WE). That is, people will stop believing Bible truth. Paul is worried about the false teachings already in the church during New Testament times. Later, a false good news will come into the church. This false teaching will lie about how we are saved and about Jesus’ work for us in heaven.

Guess who’s teaching all these lies? Satan. Satan is the real “Man of Evil” that Paul talks about. Satan wants to “put himself against God. He will put himself above everything to do with God, and above everything that people worship. He will sit in God’s holy place and tell people that he is God” (2 Thessalonians 2:4, WE). But Satan is a liar. He works with human religious leaders to do his work. Satan will use the little horn in Daniel 7 to do his work. The little horn is the same power as the sea animal in Revelation 13 and 14. The little horn and the sea animal also are the same as the Man of Evil in 2 Thessalonians 2. So, all three word pictures show us the same power.

“Study the little horn in Daniel 7. Compare the little horn with the wild sea animal that looks the same as a leopard. Also, compare these two powers with the Man of Evil. We see that the little horn, the sea animal, and the Man of Evil are very much alike. So, we see that Daniel, Paul, and John talk about the same power or kingdom. The leadership of the Roman Catholic Church.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 7, page 271, adapted.

We must remember that Daniel, Paul, and John are talking about a religion, not its members (Revelation 18:4). The leaders of this religion have taught false ideas. They have replaced Bible teaching with human teachings. So, God gave us these special messages in the Bible to warn us. God loves us and wants us to be ready for His coming. He wants us to warn His people who are part of this religion, too, because He loves them so much. We must always remember how much God loves them when we share Bible truth with them.