---
title: 'Satan’s Final Plan'
date: 13/06/2023
---

`Read Revelation 17:12–14. What does John say will happen at the end of earth’s history?`

John shares three important ideas in these verses. First, the government leaders make an agreement. They give the control of their governments and their laws to the sea-animal power. Second, this worldwide government will make war against Jesus the Lamb. Third, in earth’s final war, Jesus and His followers win. The sea animal will lose.

Have you wondered what plan Satan will use to join the governments and kingdoms on this earth? History shows us that the things that happened in the past often happen in the future. If we look at the history of the Kingdom of Rome, we can learn some important lessons about what will happen at the end of time. During the time that Constantine was the king of Rome, the German people forced their way south into his kingdom. The large groups of foreigners coming into the kingdom caused a problem for Constantine and his people. Constantine decided religion was the best way to solve the problem and keep his kingdom strong. So, he joined the Christian religion with his government. In the a.d. 300s, Constantine made Sunday the day of rest for the Kingdom of Rome. Constantine hoped this rest day would help join together the different groups in his kingdom. Constantine wanted his kingdom to stay strong. The church wanted everyone in the kingdom to join them. That is why “the church made Sunday holy. . . . Sunday was celebrated each week as the festival of the sun. So, the Christians decided to take control of this festival and other celebrations that the people loved so much. These holidays and celebrations were about their false gods. The church changed the holidays to make them about Christian teachings.”—Arthur Weigall, The Paganism in Our Christianity (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1928), page 145, adapted.

Very soon, a time of trouble will come. Everyone on earth will be hurt and afraid. They will want someone to protect them. History shows us that when trouble comes, people become scared. Evil leaders have an easy time taking control of the planet when people are scared. Things happened this way in the past. There’s no reason to think it couldn’t happen again. The Bible shows us that some tragedy will happen in the future that will cause the end times to come. We don’t know how everything will end. But we already saw how big changes can come fast. So, we must be ready for whatever is coming.