---
title: 'The Sea Animal’s Mark'
date: 14/06/2023
---

`Read Revelation 14:9 and compare it to Revelation 14:12. Where do people get the sea animal’s mark? (Also read Deuteronomy 6:8 and Deuteronomy 11:18.) In what two ways are God’s people different from the people who get the sea animal’s mark?`

There will be two groups of people living in the end times. The first group of people on earth worships the sea-animal power. The second group keeps the commandments of God. These commandments include the Sabbath or fourth commandment. The sea-animal power tried to change this law. The second group has the faith that comes from Jesus. The devil works with the sea animal and the land animal to attack the Sabbath. The sea animal’s mark is put on the front part of the face above the eyes or in the hand. The front part of the face above the eyes or forehead is a word picture for the mind, thoughts, and choices. The hand is a word picture for our actions and the things we do.

The day is coming soon when governments will pass laws that will remove our religious freedom. These days may be coming sooner than we think. Those who follow Bible truth and keep the seventh-day Sabbath will be blamed for all the evil things that happen on the earth.

“People who honor the Bible Sabbath will be blamed for causing bad things to happen. They will be accused of breaking the law and making God angry. Other people will say that the Sabbath keepers are stubborn and refuse to follow the law. These same people will say that God’s loyal followers are enemies of the government.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 592, adapted.

The leaders of the Roman Catholic Church announce that Sunday is the special mark of their power. “Of course, the Catholic Church says that the change from Saturday to Sunday is her idea. . . . This change is a symbol or mark of her control over religion.”—The American Catholic Quarterly Review, January 1883, adapted.

The book of Revelation tells us that in the future a terrible disaster will happen. This disaster will be worldwide. At that time, Sunday worship will be made a law. Then it will become the sea animal’s mark. We don’t know how or when this will happen. But we do know that the Sabbath will be the final test in the end times.