---
title: 'The Sabbath Test'
date: 15/06/2023
---

When we look at what is happening around us, we can see signs that the end of human history is near. On June 6, 2012, Benedict XVI made an announcement in Saint Peter’s Square in Rome. Benedict was the pope or religious leader of the Roman Catholic Church. Pope Benedict told people in the square that Sunday must be a day of rest for everyone. The pope said that people must be free to spend time with their families and with God on Sunday. The pope said, “By protecting Sunday, we protect human freedom.” Of course, the pope’s announcement isn’t the same thing as ordering everyone to keep Sunday holy. But the pope’s announcement shows that sooner or later, Sunday laws will be passed. Then all people who refuse to keep Sunday and who keep the seventh day holy will suffer for their faith.

God’s people will stay loyal to their faith. They will not follow the sea-animal power. God’s people will get His mark or seal. In Bible times, seals were special marks that were put on important contracts. These marks showed that the people who made the contract could trust the promises in the contract. So, we should expect to find God’s seal or mark in His law. In Bible times, every person’s mark was special and different. No two marks were alike. The Bible talks about the seals or marks put on agreements: “The Lord said, ‘Write this agreement. Tie it up and seal [lock] it so that it cannot be changed’ ” (Isaiah 8:16, ERV).

`Read Exodus 20:8–11. What parts of a seal or mark do you see in the Sabbath commandment? How is the Sabbath command different from all the other commandments?`

In Bible times, a seal or mark had three parts. The fourth commandment has all three parts. First, we see the name of the person making the agreement: “ ‘the Lordord your God’ ” (Exodus 20:10, NKJV). Second, a seal tells us about this person’s job: the Lord who “made” (Exodus 20:11, KJV). And third, a seal names the land that belongs to this person: “ ‘the sky, the earth, the sea, and everything in them’ ” (Exodus 20:11, ERV). Revelation 7:1–3 tells us that God’s seal or mark is put only on the front part of a person’s face above the eyes. Why there? Because this part of the face is a word picture for our minds. Jesus respects our freedom of choice. He invites us to choose Him. His Spirit will help us stay strong in faith until the end of time.