---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 16/06/2023
---

“A time will come when the leaders of the Protestant churches will make an agreement with the leaders of the Roman Catholic Church. The Protestant churches also will accept the false teaching that the spirit doesn’t die. They will believe that the dead can communicate with us. Then the Protestant churches, the Roman Catholic Church, and the people who believe that the dead can communicate with us will join in agreement. This three-part group will cause the people of the United States to reject every important rule and law of their Protestant and republican government. [Another name for a republican government is a republic. The United States is a republic, and not a democracy, as many people think. The United States government is a special type of republic known as a constitutional republic. In a constitutional republic, the people vote for a president and other leaders to run the country. These leaders must follow a special set of laws known as the Constitution. In a democracy, the public, and not the law, has the final say about what the government can and cannot do. In a constitutional republic, the law, and not the public, decides what a government can and cannot do. The law also has the final say in how much control leaders can have in government.] Then the people of this country will pass laws that honor Roman Catholic teachings and lies. When these things happen, we will know that the time has come for Satan to do his surprising work. The end is near.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, page 451, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why can’t we say that Jesus will come back on this date or that date? Why must we not try to guess about happenings that the Bible never talks about? What dangers are there to our faith in doing these things? In the past, people have said that special things are going to happen or that these things will happen on this date or that date. What happened when these things didn’t happen how and when people said they would happen? How did people feel? Did these experiences hurt their faith? If yes, how?`

`There are people who say that the sea animal’s mark is not a test about Sunday. They say that it isn’t possible that there will ever be a worldwide Sunday law. They say that a Sunday law can never happen. So, they think we have nothing to worry about. Why is this thinking wrong? Look at how fast big changes happened in life in the last couple of years. What answer will you give to the person who says a Sunday law can never happen?`