---
title:  Jesus is the One Who made us
date:   14/01/2018
---

`Read Genesis 1:1; Psalm 33:6–9; Isaiah 45:11, 12; Jeremiah 51:15; and John 1:3. What do these verses tell us about how good the earth is that God made?` 

“Jesus was the One who made the heavens. He set up the earth. His hand set the planets in space. He made the flowers of the field. ‘You [Jesus] made the mountains by your strength. You have great power’ [Psalm 65:6, ICB]. ‘The sea is His [Jesus’], for [because] He made it. And His hands made the dry land’ [Psalm 95:5, NLV]. Jesus filled the earth with beautiful things. He filled the air with music. He wrote the message of His Father’s love to us on everything He made on earth, in the air, and in the sky.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 20, adapted. 

The things on the earth that God made are not evil. Some religions teach that these things are evil. But the Bible places great value on the beautiful things of nature. After all, Jesus Himself made them. So, how could nature or this earth be evil? True, we can use God’s gifts in evil ways. But that does not make the things that God made evil at all. The Bible warns us against harming the things that God made and using them in bad ways. But this warning does not mean that the things that God made are bad. 

Of course not! God made the earth for His people to enjoy. In fact, theBible tellsus: “Thenyou[God’speople]andtheLevites and the outsiders [foreigners] among you will be full of joy.You will enjoy all the good things the LORD your God has given to you and your family” (Deuteronomy 26:11, NIrV). 

Jesus is the One who made us (John 1:1–3). The earth is just one small part of all that He made. Jesus’ power to make things from nothing gives Him a special view of life itself and of the people living on the earth. He knows the true cost of the things that He made. He knows that He gave these things to us for our own good and for our joy. He also knows what happens when people use those gifts in the wrong way or let those gifts take God’s place in their lives. 

`What a beautiful earth we live on! Look at all the beautiful things in nature that God made.Yes, sin ruined a lot of things that God made. But even now, we see God’s goodness in so much of nature. What does nature and its wonderful goodness tell us about how good God is?`