---
title:  Jesus is the Son of God and man
date:   15/01/2018
---

As Christians, we believe that Jesus is fully God and fully Human. In Jesus, both God and humans are joined as one. This joining between God and humans that takes place because of Jesus makes Jesus’ view about things very special. Jesus is both God and Man. So, He can understand the things that are important on earth and in heaven. Now, we cannot understand how Jesus can be both God and Human at the same time. But this fact is still true even if we cannot understand it. Just because someone does not understand how an airplane works does not make the airplane stop flying! 

“Here are two mysteries: (1) Our One God is made up of Three Persons. And (2) our One God was joined to humans in the Person of Jesus. . . . Nothing in any story on earth is as wonderful as the truth that God became a Man and lived with humans.”—J. I. Packer, Knowing God (Downers Grove, Illinois: InterVarsity Press, 1973), page 53, adapted. 

Why did Jesus come to this earth? He came to show us just how loving and caring God is. Some people had the wrong idea about God. They believed He was mean. So, Jesus came to show the truth about our Father in heaven. 

But Satan tries to make us think God does not care about us. Satan uses many tricks to stop us from knowing about God’s love. One trick Satan uses is our love for the things on this earth. Satan’s plan works well. 

`Read Matthew 19:16–22. What does the story found in these verses tell us about how Satan can use our love for the things on this earth to turn us away from God?` 

Make a picture of this story in your mind. Here is Jesus, who is God in a human body. He is talking with this young man. It is clear this young man knows that Jesus is somebody very special. But what happens? The young man allows his riches and his love for the things on this earth to get in the way of his love for God. Those things blinded the young man’s spiritual eyesight. The young man was sad. Why was he so sad? He was sad because he was losing his soul over his riches. But his sadness was not enough to cause him to make the right choice. 

`Rich or poor, how can we make sure we have the right thoughts and feelings toward the things on this earth?`