---
title:  Jesus our Savior
date:   16/01/2018
---

God never wanted us to die. But Adam and Eve sinned. They broke God’s law. And so, humans were ruined. We owed God what we never could hope to pay back. The cost of breaking the law is death. We were “broke” from owing God what we could not pay back. 

But God already had a plan to save us. He made this plan because He loved us. What was the plan? Jesus agreed to pay everything we owed (Hebrews 7:22). He became our Savior. His decision to save us is the most important “deal” ever made. He agreed to pay for our sins with His life. Only His death could pay what we owed to the law. So, Jesus paid the price for our sin. Mercy and fairness joined together in Jesus’ death. What great riches were used to pay for our sins on the cross! Heaven never saw before any payment worth more than the riches God gave on the cross. 

“God bought the heart, mind, and soul of every person. He bought them by pouring out all the riches in heaven on this earth. All heaven was given to us in Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 326, adapted. 

`Read Colossians 1:13; 1 Thessalonians 1:10; 1 Peter 1:18; Hebrews 2:14, 15; Galatians 3:13; and Revelation 1:5. As each verse shows us, what does Jesus save us from?` 

In John 19:30, we find the Greek word tetelestai. It means “ ‘It is finished’ ” (NLV). These words have been named the most important words ever spoken. These words were some of the last words Jesus said on the cross. “It is finished” meant Jesus’ work on earth was done. These words meant that what we owed the law was paid off. Jesus said “It is finished” with hope. He said these words as One who succeeded in saving sinners from death. What happened on the cross gives us hope now and in the future. Jesus gave His life to destroy sin, death, and the work of the devil forever. And so, we are saved (Ephesians 1:7). 

Jesus is our Savior. His work as our Savior shows us the true glory of God. Jesus wants to save us more than He wants anything else. This desire shows us how much He loves us. It also shows us how much Jesus thinks we are worth. 

`Think about it: Jesus fully paid the cost for all the evil you ever did. What must your answer to this gift be? (Read Job 42:5, 6.)`