---
title:  A God Who carefully guards the things that are His
date:   17/01/2018
---

In Exodus 9, God is in a spiritual battle with the king of Egypt.The king of Egypt was known also asPharaoh.Pharaoh refuses to honor God or let His people go free. So, God warns Pharaoh: “ ‘I will send all My troubles on you and your servants and your people. So you may know that there is no one like [the same as] Me in all the earth’ ” (Exodus 9:14, NLV). 

`What does the Lord mean when He says,“ ‘There is no one like [the same as] Me in all the earth’ ”?` 

“We are limited in how much we can understand. So, it is impossible for us to fully know God or what He does. The most powerful and educated minds on earth cannot figure out all there is to know about God. God is a holy Person. He always will be wrapped in mystery.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Special Messages] for the Church, volume 5, pages 698, 699, adapted. 

God has no equal (1 Kings 8:60). He thinks and acts in ways we cannot begin to know. We may try to make God the same as we are. But God will always be God. He made every snowflake, brain, and star. He made everything special about us that makes us different from anyone else. “ ‘The Lord is God. There is no other’ ” (1 Kings 8:60, NLV). 

`Read 1 Samuel 2:2; Psalm 86:8;Isaiah 55:8, 9; Jeremiah 10:10; and Titus 1:2. What do these verses tell us about how different God is from what He has made?` 

Think about all that God is, all that belongs to Him, and all that He does. It is hard to imagine anyone who would dare to challenge God. But things do “challenge” Him for our attention. These things try to take our attention away from Him. So, God must “fight” them for our love. Maybe that is the reason He says He is a “jealous [someone who carefully guards the things that are His]” God (Exodus 34:14, NIrV). God made us free. He gave us power to choose whom we want to serve. Too often we choose to serve other gods. Choosing other gods over the Lord has been our biggest problem. The Lord is the only God worth serving. After all, He made everything. Everything belongs to Him. So, that is why He is indeed a jealous God. 

`What in life challenges God for your loyalty and love?`