---
title:  True ownership
date:   18/01/2018
---

We belong to God. He made us, and He died to save us. We belong to Him because He did those two things. Everything we own belongs to God too. The only thing we own are the choices we make. 

People who do not love God have a different view. They believe we are the true owners of all the things we have. This idea is false. It goes against Bible truth. But Christians know they are not the true owners of their belongings. 

God owns everything (Job 38:4–11). We own nothing. We are nothing more than strangers on this earth and managers of everything God gives us. In the same way, the Israelites were managers of all the things God gave them in the Promised Land. We even must depend on God for our next breath (Acts 17:25). So, whatever we think we own, God really owns. We are only His stewards. Stewards are people who take care of the property and things that belong to someone else. We are meant to bring God glory by taking good care of God’s property. God does not only put His riches into our care. He also puts into our care things we cannot touch. These things may live only in our hearts and minds. Examples of these gifts include love and knowledge and special skills. 

`Read Deuteronomy 10:14; Psalm 50:10; Psalm 104:16; Ezekiel 18:4; Haggai 2:8; and 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20. What do these verses say about how we should view what we own?` 

“All things belong to God. Men may choose not to pay attention to how much they owe God. Men may use all God gives them to please their selfish desires. But men will be asked to give a reason for why they chose to use God’s gifts as they did.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 9, page 246, adapted. 

God uses the gifts He gives us in this life to help us get ready for heaven and to help others. But bad managers can limit their Owner’s use of the things He owns. As we learned, God does not force us to serve Him. He gave us things to take care of until He returns. How we take care of these things shows how close our connection to God is. 

`What does it mean that all you own really belongs to God? What should that fact tell you about how you should think and feel about everything you own?`