---
title:  Additional thought
date:   19/01/2018
---

Where in the Bible do we find the first example of stewardship? Stewardship is the job of carefully managing the property, things, and riches that belong to someone else. Stewardship started with Adam and Eve. God placed Adam and Eve in a beautiful garden home. They lived in Eden and took care of it (Genesis 2:15). In this perfect place, they learned about the work that God gave them to do. The work Adam and Eve did in the Garden of Eden gave meaning to their lives. It brought them happiness. 

The Hebrew word for “rule over” (Genesis 1:26, 28, NIrV) means “to bring under control and govern.” This control does not mean using power to force others to do things. Instead, it is a gentle power that means taking care of everything God made. The duty to take care of everything God made has not stopped.We must continue to care for it.Adam and Eve learned that God was the Owner.They were His stewards.Stewards are managers. As God’s stewards, Adam and Eve were given the job of caring for God’s property. But they were not the owners. They were to show God that they were loyal to the work He gave them. 

“God gave Adam and Eve the garden of Eden to care for. They were ‘to work the soil and take care of the garden’ [Genesis 2:15, ERV]. Their work made them happy. . . . Nothing they did made them tired. Their work was not hard. Their hours were filled with useful tasks. They felt very connected to each other. Their work was pleasant. God and Jesus visited them and talked with them. God made Adam and Eve free. . . . God was the owner of their Eden home. They managed it for Him.”—Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, volume 10, page 327, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**: 

`1 God owns the whole earth.What does this fact teach us about our duty to care for the things that He made?` 

`2 Think more about the idea of God as a “jealous [someone who carefully guards what is His]” God (Exodus 34:14, NIrV). Often, we think jealousy is bad. So, it can be hard to understand God’s jealousy. How can we understand God’s jealousy when it is very different from the jealousy we see in humans?` 

`3 God made many things for us to enjoy. But we must be careful not to use those things in a wrong way. How can we learn to use and enjoy God’s gifts in the right way?`