---
title:  Paul in Chains
date:   29/12/2025
---

While Paul is in Macedonia, he says that he was put in jail many times (2 Corinthians 6:5; 2 Corinthians 11:23; 2 Corinthians 7:5). The first time Paul was put in jail was in Philippi (Acts 16:16–24). Later, Paul was put in jail in Jerusalem for a short time. Then Paul was sent to jail in Caesarea.

Elsewhere, Paul talks about “being held in chains” (Philemon 1:10, 13, NIrV). When Paul was in jail at Rome, he lived in a house. While he was in this house, Paul was chained to a soldier. This soldier belonged to the special group of soldiers who were the best fighters in the Roman army. In the a.d. 300s, a Christian named Ignatius also was chained to a Roman soldier. Ignatius said the soldiers behaved the same as “wild animals. They behave even worse when people are nice to them.”—Michael W. Holmes, editor, The Apostolic Fathers (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2007), page 231, adapted. So, life in jail was very hard.

`What helped Paul to stay strong when he suffered during hard times? Read 2 Corinthians 4:7–12 for the answer.`

When times got hard, Paul always had hope and faith. His hope and faith gave him courage to stay strong. Satan did everything he could to make Paul suffer and lose hope. But Paul knew that God was always with him.

`What spiritual blessings helped Paul to stay strong during hard times? Read 2 Corinthians 6:3–7 for the answer.`

Often, we look at our past mistakes. We know we are weak. We look at the terrible things happening around us and feel no hope. At these times, we must remember all the gifts God gives to us for success. One of the most important gifts God gives us is the Bible. The Bible helps us learn from other people’s mistakes. The Bible also teaches us how people won the fight against evil. God gives us the Holy Spirit, too. The Holy Spirit “helps us live the Savior’s life. The Spirit makes the heart clean and holy. The Spirit helps us become the same as God in our hearts. Jesus gave us His Spirit to help us win the fight against every sin and evil in our hearts. The Spirit helps God’s church to be filled with His holy life and His love.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 671, adapted.