---
title:  History Lesson From Moses
date:  02/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Exodus 32:29–32; Deuteronomy 1:1–6; Deuteronomy 1:9–11; Numbers 14; Genesis 15:1–16.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “They all ate the same food from the Spirit. They all drank the same water sent by the Spirit. The water they drank came from a Rock of the Spirit which went with them. That Rock was Christ” (1 Corinthians 10:3, 4, WE).

THE BOOK OF DEUTERONOMY starts with these words: “These are the commands that Moses gave the Israelites” (Deuteronomy 1:1, ERV). Yes, Moses wrote the book of Deuteronomy. He is an important person in the book from verse 1 until the time of his death in the land of Moab (Deuteronomy 34:5). But Deuteronomy (and the whole Bible) is really about the Lord Jesus. Jesus is the One who made us (Genesis 1, 2). He saves us (Isaiah 41:14; Titus 2:14). Deuteronomy shows us how the Lord continues to take care of His people and saves them during this important time in their history.

At this time, the children of Israel are ready to enter Canaan. Before they go in, Moses gives them a history lesson. We see this same idea again and again in the Bible: “Remember what the Lord has done for you in the past.”

We are on the borders of a better Promised Land. So, this warning from Ellen G. White should have special meaning for us: “We have nothing to fear about the future unless we forget the way the Lord led us and His teaching in our past history.”—Ellen G. White, Life Sketches, page 196, adapted.