---
title:  Moses, The Servant Of God 
date:  03/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The first time we read about Moses is Exodus 2:2. By then, Moses already wrote Genesis. Genesis shows us who we are and why we are here. The book also explains how things got so bad on earth and why we can still have hope. Genesis teaches us about many other important ideas and people, too: (1) how sin started, (2) the promise from God to save humans, (3) the Flood, (4) Abraham, and (5) the Good News that Jesus saves us. We cannot really guess how many lives Moses and his books have touched. How did Moses do all this mighty work when he was far from perfect? The answer is simple. Moses loved God deeply and wanted to serve Him.

Read Exodus 32:29–32. These verses show us the conversation between the Lord and Moses after the people sin against God and worship the gold cow. What does this story show us about the heart of Moses? Why can the Lord use Moses in a mighty way, even if he is not perfect?

Moses is not guilty of the sin the people do. But Moses asks God to forgive the people anyway (Exodus 32:32). Moses is even willing to give up his own everlasting life to save them. Moses knows their sin is bad. He knows only one thing can remove the sin, as we shall see. Do you see the words written in Exodus 32:32 as “forgive their sin” (NIrV)? The verb “forgive” really means “to accept” or “to be responsible for.” So, Moses really asks God Himself to accept the punishment for the sin. Wow! Moses asks for a surprising thing. But Moses knows the people cannot be saved unless God accepts their punishment. God cannot forgive their sin, or any sin, any other way.

Here we see, early in the Bible, an example of a substitute. Moses, as a substitute, shows us what will happen on the cross. God Himself, in the Person of Jesus, takes our sins on Himself. He accepts the penalty. God cannot save us any other way without breaking His law. Long after Moses, Peter writes: “Christ in his own body took the wrong things we have done to the cross. He did this so that we would stop our bad ways and live right. Because he was punished, you were healed” (1 Peter 2:24, WE).

`Moses is willing to give up His own everlasting life to save his people. Wow! What do these words teach us about how we should love other people?`