---
title:  God Keeps His Promises Right On Time 
date:  04/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

For sure, modern science is wrong about many things. (One example is evolution. Evolution teaches that life on earth started because of slow changes in plants and animals over a very long time. Modern science also teaches that life started by chance.) The Bible shows us these ideas are false. But modern science helps us understand many surprising and wonderful things about nature. These things help us better understand the God who made nature. The discoveries of modern science help us see that God made everything very carefully. So, we can be sure God is just as careful with spiritual things. The opening verses of Deuteronomy show us exactly how God is very careful.

`Read Deuteronomy 1:1–6. Deuteronomy 1:3 talks about “40 years” (ERV). Why is this time so important?`

Remember how Moses sent spies from Kadesh Barnea to check out the Promised Land? What happened next? The people refuse to trust God. They do not obey His command to go take the land. So, God tells the people they will not enter the Promised Land right away. They must wait. How long? “ ‘ “For 40 years you will suffer for your sins. (That is one year for each of the 40 days that the men explored the land.) You will know that it is a terrible [awful] thing for me to be against you” ’ ” (Numbers 14:34, ERV).

So, Deuteronomy starts 40 years after that time. Now the people will enter the Promised Land. What does this information show us? We can trust the promises of God. God will do what He says He will do. He also will do what He says exactly when He says He will do it.

What other time promises in the Bible happen exactly when God says they will? Daniel 9:24–27 happens just as the Lord promised. So do the “three and a half years” (Daniel 7:25, NIrV; read also Revelation 12:6, 14; Revelation 13:5). And the 2,300 days of Daniel 8:14. So far, the special time messages in Daniel 2, 7, and 8 have happened exactly as God promised. These time messages show us God knows the future. So, we can trust God is in control.

`So far, everything God said will happen in the future has happened just as He promised. Why should these things help us trust the Lord while we continue to wait for the future things He has promised?`