---
title:  1,000 Times More! 
date:  05/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Israelites journey in the desert for a long time. Then Moses gives the people a command: “ ‘I have given you all this land. Go in and take it as your own. The Lord promised he would give the land to your fathers. He promised it to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. He also said he would give it to their children after them’ ” (Deuteronomy 1:8, NIrV).

Look at what happens next.

`Read Deuteronomy 1:9–11. What do these verses mean? While you read them, remember that God punishes Israel for failing to obey Him at Kadesh Barnea.`

These verses show us another example of the mercy of God. Yes, God punishes the Israelites by making them wander for 40 years in the desert. At the same time, God continues to bless His people during that time. Moses says: “ ‘You took care of them for 40 years. They had all they needed in the desert. Their clothes didn’t wear out, and their feet didn’t swell [grow big] and hurt’ ” (Nehemiah 9:21, ERV).

Then Moses shows his deep love for his people. He asks God to add people to Israel a thousand more times than He already had!

`After God blesses the people as Moses asks, what happens? What does Moses do to solve the problem? Read Deuteronomy 1:12–17 for the answers.`

God is with His people in a powerful way. At the same time, The people need good human leadership, too. They need responsible leaders who can judge things in a fair way and wisely solve problems. Israel was a “qahal.” A “qahal” is a large group of people or a community of faith (read Deuteronomy 31:30, NIrV). The “qahal” came before the “ekklesia” in the New Testament. “Eckklesia” is the Greek word for “church” (read Matthew 16:18). So, we see a connection between the Old Testament community of faith (“qahal”) and the New Testament church (“ekklesia”). This connection helps us see why Paul talks about the need for good church leaders in 1 Corinthians 12. The church today needs to be in agreement, the same as the “qahal” in the desert was. We need church members to serve God in different ways with the gifts God gives them.