---
title:  Kadesh Barnea 
date:  06/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

What happened at Kadesh Barnea is a sad story. This story is the reason for what happens at the beginning of Deuteronomy. So, we should take a closer look at the story.

`How do the people behave when the spies give their report? What happens because of their behavior? Read Numbers 14 for the answer.`

We can learn many important lessons from this story. One important lesson is in Numbers 14. We will see this lesson in the book of Deuteronomy again later on.

Read Numbers 14:11–20. Moses stands between God and the people in these verses. We saw Moses do this same work before when the people sinned against the Lord with the gold cow. What reasons does Moses give God about why He should not destroy the people? Why is this reason so important?

In so many words, Moses says to God, “If You destroy Your people, what will the Egyptians and other people think about You?” This idea is important. Everything God does for Israel is not just for Israel. God wants to bless humans everywhere because of His plan for Israel. God chooses Israel to show His love to the people on the earth. God wants Israel to help people to turn from their false gods to the only God who can save them. That is why Moses says, If you destroy this people, then what? The people from other countries will say, “ ‘ “The Lord was not able to bring them into the land he promised them. So he killed them in the desert” ’ ” (Numbers 14:16, ERV).

The Bible shows again and again that the people of God will give Him glory. God chose Israel in Bible times to do this work. In the same way, God chose the church to show His love to everyone on earth today. God works in the lives of His people to show other people who He is. Of course, we do not always make it easy for God to do His work. But in the end, the work of God in His church will show His glory.

`Read Ephesians 3:10. What is Paul saying in this verse? How does God show His wisdom through His church to people who live on other planets?`