---
title:  The Sin Of The Amorite People 
date:  07/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Deuteronomy 2 and 3, Moses tells the Israelites more about their history. Moses talks about how God helped the Israelites beat their enemies when Israel was loyal to God. God also helped His people destroy the giants “known as Rephaim” (Deuteronomy 2:11, 20, NLV; Deuteronomy 3:13).

These verses bring a difficult topic to our attention: killing. True, the Israelites often tried to make peace with people before they fought them (Deuteronomy 20:10, 11). But the people from other countries did not always accept the offer of peace from Israel. So, sometimes the Israelites went to war and destroyed these people, including women and children. Moses talks about how Israel did this very thing to King Sihon: “ ‘The Lord our God gave him to us. We won the fight against him, his sons and all his people. So we took all his cities at that time, and destroyed every man, woman and child in them. We left no one alive’ ” (Deuteronomy 2:33, 34, NLV).

Some people have a hard time accepting the killing in these Bible stories. So, they say these stories are not true. As Seventh-day Adventists, we cannot accept that answer. We believe that “All Scripture [the Bible] is given by God” (2 Timothy 3:16, ERV). So, we believe the stories in the Bible happened. Because we believe, we face a difficult question: Why did a loving God allow these killings to happen?

`Read Genesis 15:1–16. What does God say to Abram in verse 16? How does verse 16 help us better see why God let Israel kill their enemies, including women and children?`

For sure, many of the people near Israel were evil. God had every right to punish them long before then. Even so, we have a hard time reading about how Israel killed women and children. We must remember that we do not have all the information about what happened back then. So, we must accept this difficult story and trust in the mercy of God. Faith is not just about loving God when our loving Him is easy. Faith is also about our trusting in God when we do not fully understand everything we read in the Bible.

`We may see things in life or the Bible we do not fully understand. Read 1 Corinthians 10:1–4 and John 14:9. How do these verses help us trust God and believe He is loving and fair, even when we do not understand everything we see?`