---
title:  Further Thought
date:  08/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Below is the view of one Bible expert on the topic of what the Israelites did to their enemies:

“God is the One who made all things, including humans. God controls everything in heaven and earth. So, God can do anything He wants with anyone. When God acts, He will always be right in whatever He does. . . .

“The ways of God are a mystery. We never will fully understand God. So, we need to relax. Stop worrying about all the questions we have in our minds about God. Isaiah 55:8, 9 offers us some hope on this topic.

“The Bible shows us a picture of the Canaanites. These people were very evil. So, they were destroyed. God punished them for their sin. This is not the first time or the last time God will punish people in this way. . . .

“God never wanted to make the plan of “herem” the only thing the Israelites did to other people. “Herem” in the Hebrew language means to fully destroy something. Deuteronomy 7:1 shows us a list of the people God will force from Canaan to make room for the Israelites. This list helps us to see that God set limits on the people Israel may destroy. So, God did not allow the Israelites to destroy the Aramaeans, Edomites, Egyptians, or anyone else (also read Deuteronomy 20:10–18). . . .

“The Canaanites were judged by God. In the same way, all sinners will stand in front of God and be judged. . . .

“Yes, God judged the Canaanites. But remember, the Canaanites were warned for at least 40 years about what is coming in the future (read the words of Rahab in Joshua 2:8–11).”—Daniel I. Block, The NIV Application Commentary: Deuteronomy (Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan, 2012), pages 98, 99, adapted.

DISCUSSION QUESTION:

1.	After Jesus comes, we will have 1,000 years (named the millennium) to get answers to all our questions about things in life we do not understand now. How can this hope help us to trust in God, even if we do not have answers to everything right now?

2.	What are some of the ways God led you in the past? How can this experience help you to trust Him for the future? Why must we always remember how God has worked in our lives?