---
title:  The New Agreement And The Temple In Heaven
date:  05/06/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Exodus 25:8; Isaiah 53:4–12; Hebrews 10:4; Hebrews 9:14; Hebrews 8:1–6; 1 Timothy 2:5, 6.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “So Christ [Jesus] brings a new agreement from God to his people. He brings this agreement so that those [people] who are chosen by God can have the blessings God promised, blessings that last [continue] forever” (Hebrews 9:15, ERV).

NO MOON FILLED THE EVENING SKY with light above Frank. The sky looked as black as spilled ink. Frank was covered in shadows as he walked the empty streets of the city. After a while, Frank heard footsteps behind him. Someone was following Frank in the darkness. Then the person caught up with Frank and asked, “Are you Frank the book maker?”

Frank did not know the man. He answered, “Yes, I am. How did you know?”

“Well,” said the stranger, “I do not know you. But I know your brother well. Even in the dark, I can see that you walk and move the same way your brother does. You both are the same size too. So, when I saw you, I knew you had to be his brother, because he told me he had one.”

This story helps us better understand the plan of God for the Holy Tent where He was worshiped in Old Testament times. The Bible tells us this Tent was a copy of the real temple in heaven. Sure, the Tent was only a copy. Even so, the copy showed important Bible truths. What Bible truths did the Holy Tent on earth show? The Holy Tent showed the death of Jesus and His work for us in the temple in heaven.