---
title:  A Close, Loving Friendship With God 
date:  06/06/2021
---

**‘Also, I will place [put] my Holy Tent among you. I will not turn away from you. I will walk with you and be your God. And you will be my people’ ” (Leviticus 26:11, 12, ERV).**

We should understand one idea by now: in both the old and the new agreements, the Lord wants to have a close, loving friendship with His people. The agreements show us the rules for this special friendship.

Friendship is an important part of the agreement. What things must any friendship have to be a success? Friends need to spend time together. They also need to communicate. They need to connect and stay in touch. The Lord, of course, knows this. That is why He leads out in the friendship. He wants to be sure that we, as sinners, can connect with Him in ways we can understand.

`In Exodus 25:8, the Lord commands His people to build him a tent. Why does the Lord want His people to do this? What reasons does the Lord give to His people?`

The answer is: the Lord wants to live with His people. This answer brings up another question: Why? Why does the Lord want to live with His people?

The answer to this last question is shown in Leviticus 26:11, 12. Look at these verses again (at the top of the study for today). Do you see that the Lord will “place [put]” His tent among His people? That is the same thing as the Lord saying that He will live among them. Then the Lord says He will not “turn away from you.”  Next, He says He will “walk with you” and “be your God.” Israel will be His people (Leviticus 26:11, 12, ERV). Look at all these different parts in the verses. They show us that the Lord wants to have a close, loving friendship with His people.

`Read Leviticus 26:11, 12 and Exodus 25:8. Write down how the different parts of these verses show us that God wants to have a close, loving friendship with His people.`

`Now look at the part of the verse where the Lord says, “ ‘I will not turn away from you’ ” (Leviticus 26:11, ERV). How does the Holy Tent show us that God will accept us? Why is that Bible truth so important for making an agreement?`