---
title:  Sin, Offerings, And Forgiveness 
date:  07/06/2021
---

God made a way for sinners during Old Testament times to be free from sin and guilt. This plan included animal offerings. Leviticus 1–7 talks about the different animal offerings. God commanded the religious leaders in Israel to be very careful with the animal blood. Blood is one of the most important parts of the animal offerings.

When a person sinned, he broke his friendship with God, the law, and their agreement. There is only one way this sinner can be joined in full friendship with God again. The sinner must bring an animal gift to God. This animal will take the punishment that the sinner should get for breaking the law. The animal will be his substitute. The animal will die in the place of the sinner. God made animal offerings a part of worship to show sinners how He will make them clean from sin and guilt. The Lord takes the sin and guilt into His temple in heaven. The religious leaders during Old Testament times showed this special work God will do. The leaders took the blood into the Holy Tent on earth. Then the religious leaders sprinkled the blood inside the Holy Tent to show that the agreement and friendship with God was made new again.

`How do the ideas we just read about help us understand the questions at the end of the study yesterday?`

`What special message do the animal offerings show us about the future? For the answer, read Isaiah 53:4–12 and Hebrews 10:4.`

The animal offerings changed the way God looked at the sinner. The animal died in the place of the sinner. So, God no longer saw the sinner as guilty and worthy of being killed. Now the sinner is forgiven. His friendship with God is made new. Of course, no animal can really be a substitute for a sinner who broke the law of God. As the writer of Hebrews says: “It isn’t possible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sin” (Hebrews 10:4, NIrV). So, we see that the animal offerings must be a word picture for something else: Jesus. Jesus died for the sins of everyone on earth. That is why God can make us clean from sin and forgive us. Because Jesus died for us, we can be friends with God again and accept His agreement.