---
title:  Jesus, Our Substitute 
date:  08/06/2021
---

One of the most important ideas in the New Testament is that Jesus offered Himself for our sins. Maybe this idea is the most important idea in the whole New Testament. God built His plan to save us on this Bible truth. What if someone teaches that Jesus does not save us with His blood? Then this person does not accept Christianity. A cross without Jesus and His blood will not save anyone.

`Read Galatians 1:4 and then answer these questions: Does Jesus volunteer to die? Who does Jesus die for? What does His death do for us?`

Jesus takes our place on the cross. Another name for this idea is substitution. Substitution is an important part of the plan of God to save us. Our sins make us worthy of punishment. The punishment we should get is death. But Jesus “gave himself for our sins” (Galatians 1:4, ERV). He accepted our punishment. Why? Because He loved us. Jesus died the death we should die. So, Jesus is our Substitute. That is why the death of Jesus for us is important Bible truth. All other Bible truth comes from this teaching. So, we now have hope that God will make us free from sin. Our hope comes from our faith in the work Jesus did for us on the cross. Now He works for us in heaven. So, we can have forgiveness and everlasting life. Our being saved comes only by our faith in the blood of Jesus. Without His blood, our faith does not mean anything.

`Look up these verses: Matthew 26:28; Ephesians 2:13; Hebrews 9:14; 1 Peter 1:19. What do these verses tell us about the blood? What part does blood have in the plan of God to save us from sin and death?`

“God does not want you be afraid. God does not want you to beat yourself up because of your sins. So, do not be afraid that God will not accept you because of your sins and because you are not worthy. . . . You can say: ‘I know I am a sinner. That is why I need a Savior. . . . I have not done anything to make myself good enough to be saved. But I come to God with the blood of Jesus. Jesus is the perfect Lamb of God. His blood removes the sins of humans. So, I ask God to remove my sins too.’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Faith I live By, page 100, adapted.