---
title:  Jesus, Our Chief Religious Leader 
date:  09/06/2021
---

In Old Testament times, God wanted to live with His people. God chose to live in the Holy Tent when Israel traveled in the desert. An important part of worship at the Holy Tent included killing animals. The death of these animals was important. Their blood was important too. The chief religious leader took the blood into the Holy Tent. He did this for the sinner after the animal was killed.

The killing of the animals and the work of the chief religious leader are only word pictures. They show the work Jesus will do on earth and in heaven for all humans. The work of the chief religious leader in Old Testament times did not end when the animal offering was killed. In the same way, the work Jesus does for us does not end with His death on the cross.

`Study for today Hebrews 8:1–6. Pray about the verses. Ask the Lord to help you understand what He is saying to us in these verses and why it is important for us to know it. Write in your own words what you think the message of the Lord is to us in these verses. Ask yourself, How do these verses help us understand the new agreement?`

The Bible teaches us that there is a Holy Tent on earth during Old Testament times. Religious leaders serve God in the Holy Tent as part of the old agreement. In the same way, there is a tent or temple in heaven. This temple also has a Chief Religious Leader. He does work in the temple as part of the new agreement. In the old agreement, the Holy Tent and its worship are only word pictures. In the new agreement, these word pictures become real things.

We no longer have an animal substitute who did not know right from wrong. Now we have Jesus who did not sin. We no longer have animal blood. Now we have the blood of Jesus. We no longer worship God in a place made by humans. Now Jesus “serves in the Most Holy Place. He serves in the true place of worship that was made by God, not by anyone here on earth” (Hebrews 8:2, ERV). Israel had a human religious leader who was not perfect. We have Jesus who never sinned. He works for us in heaven right now to save us from sin. As you think about these things, read these words from Paul: “We will be punished if we forget or throw away this wonderful way to be saved” (Hebrews 2:3, WE).