---
title:  Jesus Works For Us In Heaven 
date:  10/06/2021
---

Study Hebrews 9:24. This verse explains the work that Jesus does right now for us in heaven. We can learn many things from Hebrews 9:24. But we want to look at the last part of the verse. This part tells us that Jesus now stands “in front of God for us. He is there right now” (Hebrews 9:24, NIrV).

Do you understand how much this verse promises us? We are sinners. If we stand in front of God right now, what will happen to us? The glory of God will burn us up, right? So, we cannot stand in front of God right now. But Someone else can stand there for us. That Person is Jesus. Maybe we have been very bad in the past. Maybe we have broken the law of God in an awful way. The good news is that Jesus goes to court for us in heaven. He asks God to pardon us. Think about how loving Jesus was when He was on earth. He was also very forgiving and accepting too. Now this same Person is our Lawyer in the courtroom in heaven!

Jesus is the same as a Human “Bridge.” Jesus paid the price for our sins at the cross (1 Peter 2:24). So, now Jesus stands in between God in heaven and humans on earth.

We can understand this idea. Sin caused a separation between God and humans. Jesus is both God and Man. He is perfect. So, Jesus is the only One who can be a “bridge” between sinners and God. The most important idea to remember is that the God-Man Jesus stands on our side in heaven. He can understand all our tests in life and our suffering (Hebrews 4:14, 15). That is why He is the best Person to stand for us in front of our Father in heaven.

`“There is one God. There is one Man standing between God and men. That Man is Christ Jesus. He gave His life for all men so they could [may] go free and not be held by the power of sin. God made this known to the world [humans] at the right time” (1 Timothy 2:5, 6, NLV). What two jobs do these verses show us Jesus does? How are these two jobs shown by the Holy Tent and its animal offerings in Old Testament times?`

The new agreement gives us good news: Jesus stands for us in front of God. Jesus asks God to forgive us and give us power over sin. What hope do we have without that?