---
title:  Further Thought
date:  11/06/2021
---

**The most powerful angel in heaven cannot pay the price needed to save one sinner. Angels with four wings cannot pay this price. Angels with six wings also cannot pay the price. Only a Person who is the same as God can save humans. This Person must be the same as God in every way. Everything about this Person shows that He is worthy to stand in front of God for sinners. He also will show God and His love to humans. The Substitute for humans will be the same as humans too. He must be born human with the feelings and thoughts of a human. He must be connected with the human family. Then He can stand in front of God for humans. The Substitute for humans also must have the same thoughts and feelings as God. He must be connected with God. Then He can show God to humans and stand between God and humans too.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 257, adapted.**

“Jesus says: As you tell other people about Me, I will also tell God and the holy angels about you. You are my witnesses on earth. I will pour on you my loving favor. My loving favor will flow from you to other people. Then they will be healed. I will stand in front of God for you in heaven. The Father will not see all the mistakes you made or everything wrong with you. No, He will see you the same as He sees Me. You will be perfect in His eyes. God has blessings for you in heaven. God gives Me these blessings to give you. So, tell other people about how I died to save them on the cross. Then you will become part of the group of people who will be saved. These people will have glory and joy.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 357, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read Romans 5:2; Ephesians 2:18; and Ephesians 3:12. How do these verses help us understand that Jesus is the only Way that we can come to God?`

`Look at the second Ellen G. White quotation above. Do you see how she explains the job of a lawyer? When the Father looks at us, He does not see our sins. No, He sees the holy life of Jesus, who is our Lawyer in heaven. Think about what this means. Discuss your answer with the class.`

`We know that Jesus is in the temple in heaven. What does that mean for us right now, today?`

**Summary**: Jesus works for us in heaven under the new agreement. His work in heaven replaces the Holy Tent and its animal offerings in the old agreement. Religious leaders no longer kill animals and bring their blood inside the Holy Tent on earth. Now we have Jesus. He is our perfect Offering. He stands in front of the Father for us in the temple in heaven. The work Jesus does in heaven is the reason for the new agreement and its promises.