---
title:  The Spirit of the Law
date:   26/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Nehemiah 5:1–5; Nehemiah 5:6–8; Nehemiah 5:7–12; Nehemiah 5:14–19.

> **MEMORY VERSE**: <p></p> 
> “ ‘Give the people’s fields back to them. Give them back their vineyards [grape gardens], olive groves [trees] and houses. Do it right away. Give everything back to them. Also give them back the one percent on the money, grain, fresh wine and olive oil you have charged them’ ” (Nehemiah 5:11, NIrV).

**AS CHRISTIANS**, we ask ourselves what we can do to help the poor. Jesus says, “ ‘You will always have the poor with you’ ” (Matthew 26:11, ERV). Yes, that is true. But that is no excuse for us to do nothing. Jesus expects us to do something to help the poor. The Bible also tells us that we must help them. If we do not help the poor, we cannot say we are Christians.

We see this problem with the poor in the story in Nehemiah. The Jews come home to build Jerusalem. Yes, God wants His people to build the city. But God also wants His people to remember the poor. God’s people, the Jews, also must solve another problem. Rich people in their land are not fair to the poor people. This problem happened before the Babylonians carried the Jews away from Jerusalem. This problem continues to happen in the land after the Jews come back home.

This week, we will see what Nehemiah does to solve this problem in the land. How does Nehemiah help the poor?

_Jesus expects us to help the poor._