---
title: The People's Complaint
date: 27/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Nehemiah 5:1–5. What happens in these verses? What do the people cry out against?`

Nehemiah joins the Jewish community together. He gives them courage to continue building. But not everything is well in the land. Yes, Nehemiah helps the Jews stay strong against their enemies. But the Jewish community has problems. The Jewish leaders and the princes use the poor to make more money. Things are so bad that many poor families cry out for help. Some families complain that they do not have any food. They cannot feed their children. Some complain about the famine, or the shortage of food, in the land. These families sold their lands because there was not enough food. Now they have nothing. Other families cry out because they had to borrow money to pay the Persian tax. They also sold their children as slaves to get money.

What causes this trouble? The high tax and the famine, or food shortage. These two things cause the poor families in the land to cry for help. The Persian government says that Judah needs to pay 350 talents of silver money each year (read the note on Nehemiah 5:1–5 in the Andrews Study Bible, page 598). What happens if a family has no money for the tax? Then the family must borrow money to pay it. Sometimes they must offer valuable land to prove they can pay the money back. Then the family agrees to give their land to the money lender. If the family cannot pay back the loan in a year, they may lose their land. What happens if he cannot earn enough money in a year? Sometimes the family decides to sell some of his family members as slaves. Often, families sell their children. These children then work to pay off the loan for their families.

There are times in life when we are in trouble because we make bad choices. Other times we get sick. Or we lose a job. It is not our fault that we cannot pay our bills. The story in the book of Nehemiah tells us about a time when government laws are not fair. These laws make people poor. The people continue to grow more and more poor. They have no way out.

`In Nehemiah’s time and in ours, governments are not always fair to people. They make laws that cause people to borrow money they cannot pay back. The Bible talks about this problem. What message does that tell us about God?`

_Some families sell their children as slaves to get money._
