---
title: 'The Spirit Of The Law'
date: 28/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Nehemiah 5:6–8 (also read Exodus 21:2–7). As these verses show, why does Nehemiah get upset?` 

Today, we know that slavery is wrong. But in Bible times, slavery is a normal part of life. A parent can become a slave. Or a parent can sell a child. The law allows parents to sell their sons or daughters. But God loves freedom. So, He makes a law about slaves. Slave owners cannot hold their slaves for more than seven years. God makes this law to protect His people. He does not want them to be slaves forever. God’s law also shows us that He wants His people to live free. 

God’s law allows His people to give money to people in need. God does not allow His people to add interest. Interest is the money that people pay to the lender to use the lender’s money. (Read God’s laws about loans in Exodus 22:25–27; Leviticus 25:36, 37; Deuteronomy 23:19, 20.) Jewish lenders do not charge much interest. Lenders in other countries around them charge a lot more. The Jewish lenders charge only 1% every month. That is 12% a year. But the lenders from other countries charge 50% interest (for borrowing silver) and 100% interest (for grain) a year! Wow! That is a lot of money. No wonder people sell their children as slaves to pay the money back! So, the law shows us that Jewish money lenders do only one thing wrong. They charge people interest on loans (Nehemiah 5:10). As we said, the interest is small: only 1%. But God says His people should not charge any interest at all. In Nehemiah 5, the people who owe money do not even complain about the interest at all. So, why is Nehemiah so angry? 

Do you see that Nehemiah does not solve the problem right away? He takes time to think about it. Then he acts. Yes, the Jewish lenders do not charge as much interest as lenders in other lands. But Nehemiah says that the Jewish lenders do wrong anyway. They break God’s law. They sin against the spirit, or truth, of the law. In hard times, it is our duty to help each other. God is always on the side of the poor and needy. That is why God sends prophets, or special messengers, to fight for the poor.

`How can we break God’s law when we think we are really following it?`

_In hard times, it is our duty to help each other._