---
title:  NEHEMIAH SOLVES THE PROBLEM
date:   29/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

As we saw yesterday, the leaders and royal men lend money to the poor Jews in the land. But these rich men also charge the Jews interest. We learned that interest is the money that a person pays to a lender for the money he borrows. But Nehemiah says this practice is wrong. “ ‘You are forcing your own people to pay interest on the money you loan [give; let borrow] them. You must stop doing that!’ ” (Nehemiah 5:7, ERV). But no one pays attention to Nehemiah. Does Nehemiah give up? No, he continues to fight for the poor. Nehemiah fights against the rich and powerful in the land. But does he let that stop him? Not at all. He may make powerful enemies as he works to do what is right. But Nehemiah is not going to stop until the problem is solved. 

`Read what Nehemiah says to the people in Nehemiah 5:7–12. Why is Nehemiah upset with the people? What does he say to convince the people to make things right?`

Nehemiah announces a meeting. All the people of Israel come together to discuss the problem. No doubt Nehemiah hopes that this big meeting will make the leaders feel ashamed of their behavior. 

Nehemiah first talks about slavery. Many of the Jews there bought freedom for other Jews who were slaves to foreigners. Nehemiah himself may have bought slaves and freed them. Now he asks the royal men a question. Do they think it is right for Jews to buy and sell their own people? Is it right for Jews to buy other Jews from slavery in foreign lands only to have them live as slaves again in their own country?

The leaders do not answer Nehemiah. They see that he is right. Nehemiah continues: “ ‘Shouldn’t [should not] you show respect for our God? Shouldn’t [should not] you live in a way that will keep our enemies from saying bad things about us?’ ” (Nehemiah 5:9, NIrV). Then Nehemiah confesses that he himself has been lending money and grain to people too. So, he says, “ ‘But we must stop charging interest!’ ” (Nehemiah 5:10, NIrV). Nehemiah’s words show that God’s law does not allow Jews to charge other Jews interest on loans. Nehemiah wants the leaders to be kind and fair to the poor. The leaders agree to give back everything to the people. 

_Nehemiah asks the royal leaders a question. Is it right for Jews to buy other Jews to be slaves in their own land?_