---
title: 'An Oath'
date: 30/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the agreement between the leaders and the poor in Nehemiah 5:12, 13. Why does Nehemiah put a curse on the people who will not keep their part of the agreement?`

Yes, the leaders agree to give back the land they took from the poor. But Nehemiah is not happy with only their words. He wants proof that the leaders will do what they promise. So, Nehemiah makes the leaders swear an oath in front of the priests, or holy leaders. This action makes their promise legal. Then Nehemiah can take the leaders to court later if they do not keep their promise.

But why does Nehemiah put a curse on anyone who breaks the agreement? It was a normal practice in Nehemiah’s day. People included curses in agreements to help everyone understand what will happen if they break a law. The curse helped people keep the agreement. Nehemiah feels that this agreement is very important. So, he needs to do something to help the people remember to keep their promises. Do you see how Nehemiah shakes out the folds of his clothes (Nehemiah 5:13)? This action is a word picture. Nehemiah shows the people that anyone who goes against this oath will lose everything. God will “shake” these men out of their houses and off their lands (Nehemiah 5:13, NLV). 

`Read Numbers 30:2; Deuteronomy 23:21–23; Ecclesi-astes 5:4, 5; Leviticus 19:12; and Genesis 26:31. What do these verses teach us about oaths? Are they holy? Please explain.`

Our words have the power of life and death. So, we need to be careful of what we say and what we promise to do. It also is important for our behavior to match our words. How many people have been turned off by Christians who preach the truth but do not live it?

`Think about the power of our words. Why must we be careful of what we say, when we say it, and how we say it?`

_Nehemiah shakes out the folds of his clothes. This action is a word picture. It shows the people that anyone who goes against this oath will lose everything. God will “shake” these men out of their houses and off their lands._