---
title: 'Nehemiah S Example'
date: 31/10/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read the story in Nehemiah 5:14–19 and then answer the question. The law of the land says that the people must pay tax money to Nehemiah to help him buy his food. The people owe this money to Nehemiah because he is governor. But Nehemiah never forces the people to pay the taxes for his food as governor. What does Nehemiah say about not forcing the people to pay for his food?`

When does Nehemiah write these verses in Nehemiah 5:14–19? We think he writes them after he goes back to the court of King Artaxerxes. Nehemiah has been governor in Judah for 12 years. During this time, he is allowed to collect money from his people for his food. But Nehemiah does not do it. He pays for his own food. He also takes care of his family and his whole court in Judah. So, when Nehemiah is finished with his work as governor, he lost a lot of money. But Nehemiah does not go to Judah to get rich. Nehemiah is rich already. That is why he can afford to pay for the daily food for so many people. He also gives plenty of food to other people during this time (Nehemiah 5:17, 18).

`What does Nehemiah say in Nehemiah 5:19? How does this idea show us the truth about the Good News?`

Nehemiah shows us an example of someone who puts the Lord and His work first. Nehemiah’s example is a good lesson for all of us. It is easy to work for the Lord when it does not cost us much money. But how many of us will put God first before our own personal business?

`Read Philippians 2:3–8. What rules are shown in these verses? How can you show them in your life right now?`

_Nehemiah gives plenty of food to people during the time he is governor._