---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   01/11/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: 

Read Ellen G. White, “A Rebuke Against Extortion,” pages 646–652, in Prophets and Kings.

“Nehemiah learns about what is going on. The rich are not fair to the poor. He is upset because of what is happening to the poor. ‘I was very angry,’ he says, ‘when I heard their cry and these words.’ [Nehemiah 5:6, NLV]. Nehemiah sees that he must take a strong stand for what is fair and right. It will be the only way he can stop the wrong practice that is happening in the land. Nehemiah has a strong wish to do what is right. So, he goes to work to help his people.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 648, adapted.

“Jesus gives us an important rule. If we follow this rule, we will never need to make an oath. Jesus teaches that we should always say the exact truth. ‘ “Say only ‘yes’ if you mean “yes,” and say only “no,” if you mean “no.” If you say more than that, it is from the Evil One.’ ” [Matthew 5:37, ERV].”—Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, page 67, adapted. 

“Jesus’ rule in Matthew 5:37 warns us against saying anything meaningless. This rule also warns us not to use bad words or dirty language. His rule warns us not to say nice things to people when we hate them. His rule warns us against lying and stretching the truth. His rule warns us not to lie to people when we work with them. People who do not follow Jesus lie and talk badly about other people. Jesus’ rule teaches us that no one should try to make other people think he or she is something that he or she is not. Our words must always match what we know to be true. Only then can our words be true.”—Page 68, adapted. 

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1.	What is the top reason for the problems we have with money, friendships, and family? How does selfishness help us understand the answer to that question? What can we do to protect our hearts against selfishness?`

`2. How can God’s people avoid being greedy? What advice does God give us to get rid of the greed in our hearts? Study these verses for the answer: Isaiah 58:3–12 and Micah 6:6–8.`

_“[Nehemiah’s] heart [is filled with] anger at what is happening to the poor.”_