---
title:  Discipline to Train and Equip
date:  14/06/2021
---

#### inTerpret

Our inclusion in the divine covenant does not merely assure us of God’s disciplinary interventions to protect us from falling away but also assures us of His commitment to “training [paideia, disciplining] [us] in righteousness, so that [we] may be thoroughly equipped for every good work” (2 Tim 3:16, 17, NIV) to produce “a harvest of righteousness and peace” (Heb. 12:11, NIV).

When Adam fell, the covenant of “grace which was given to us in Christ Jesus before time began” (2 Tim 1:9, NKJV) was activated on earth as the divine plan of salvation to save as many infected humans as possible from the fatal results of sin’s pandemic (Gen. 3:15). That became God’s mission. Since then, every person who has responded in faith and the obedience of faith to God’s gospel appeal has been assigned a place in that mission. Believers in the Old Testament era accepted the covenant curses and blessings as divine interventions not only to secure them to God but also to equip them for their covenantal mission: “God be merciful to us and bless us . . . that Your way may be known on earth, Your salvation among all nations” (Ps. 67:1, 2, NKJV). That calling to mission is as true today as ever.

Every converted and baptized believer has been granted a unique covenantal assignment in God’s mission to save as many people as possible: “Not more surely is the place prepared for us in the heavenly mansions than is the special place designated on earth where we are to work for God” (Christ’s Object Lessons, 327).

You need not fret and worry as to the exact nature of your assignment, your special place in His mission. It is seldom some great task that you discover early in life, prepare for, and finally get accomplished at the end of your life. It’s more like a commitment to fulfill the duties that lie the nearest every day. For some people, that does seem to eventually grow into a sense of a special life focus, some passion they develop, a sense of “calling” to a specific career track, some unique giftedness, some spiritual gift they seem to have that especially blesses people in a special way. The general counsel of Scripture is: “Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord, not for human masters, since you know that you will receive an inheritance from the Lord as a reward” (Col. 3:23, 24, NIV). If you are seeking the counsel of God through His word, through prayer and godly mentors, God will continually be at work in your life, through His covenantal, disciplinary “blessings” and “curses,” to secure your way on His path and to “equip you for every good work” He calls you to accomplish, whether it be small or great. Experiencing afflictions of your own making can sometimes be part of the training/equipping process (2 Cor. 1:4).

Your ultimate covenant assignment will be something unimaginably breathtaking. When Jesus was raised from the dead, He was seated “at [the Father’s] right hand in the heavenly places” (Eph. 1:20, NKJV). At our conversion and baptism, God proleptically (that is, describing the future as a past event) “raised us up with [Christ], and seated us with Him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus” (Eph. 2:6, NASB). Jesus said that at His second coming He will grant to every overcomer the authority and honor “to sit with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat down with My Father on His throne” (Rev. 3:21). What? Yes! In the new earth you will be granted some unique role that you will absolutely love in His servant rulership over the universe. That is what your day-by-day covenant faithfulness, and what His daily covenant “blessings” and “curses,” are ultimately “thoroughly equipping” you for! Don’t give up. Your future prospects are amazing!

`Comments`