---
title: 'Wise Advice For Families'
date: 27/04/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Proverbs 5:3–14; Proverbs 14:26; Proverbs 13:24; Proverbs 21:9, 19; Proverbs 31:10–31.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Trust the Lord with all your heart. Don’t [do not] depend on your own understanding. Remember the Lord in everything you do. And he will give you success” (Proverbs 3:5, 6, ICB).

**THE BOOK OF PROVERBS** is filled with wise advice for families. Are you a mother or father? Or are you married but with no kids? Or are you single? Whatever you are now in life, you are here because you had a mother and father. Some people choose not to start a family of their own. Other people never marry. The only family they know is the family they grew up with.

Maybe we did not start our own family. But we should read Proverbs anyway. Proverbs has many wise sayings about the family. It is filled with information, poems, questions, and advice for a holy life. Think of the book of Proverbs as a book written by a father to a son: “My son, listen to your father’s advice. Don’t [do not] turn away from your mother’s teaching” (Proverbs 1:8, NIrV). Deuteronomy tells parents to share their beliefs with their children. Proverbs shows us a father telling his son about his faith. The father’s speeches in Proverbs show us what is in the heart of our Father in heaven. God speaks to us in the book of Proverbs. He wants us to read this book so we can see how much He loves us.