src/en/2019-02-er/05/02.md, before:

---
title: 'Love The Right Woman'
date: 28/04/2019
---

`Proverbs 5:3–14 warns about all the problems that happen when a person has sex with another man’s wife. What problems do these verses warn us about? What bad things happen to people who have sex with someone else’s husband or wife?`

True followers of God will wait until they are married before they have sex. They will save their deepest feelings and their bodies for marriage. Proverbs warns men about having sex with women who are not their wives. But the advice in Proverbs is for wives too. The Song of Solomon talks about why a woman should save herself for marriage (read Song of Solomon 4:12–15). Love that is wrong can feel very strong and powerful. Sin makes us feel good at the time. But we must always remember that this feeling is a lie. Trouble will follow. Sex between two people who are not married is wrong. It shows no loyalty or love. It cannot show true closeness. In the end, sin causes us to waste our time, money, and energy. Then we must answer to God for the wrong choice we made.

Sex is one of God’s most wonderful gifts. But the Bible is clear. Sex is right only when it happens between two people who are married to each other (Matthew 19:5; 1 Corinthians 7:3, 4; Hebrews 13:4). In Proverbs, water is a word picture for the love and joy that a married couple should feel. But dirty water is a word picture for what happens when a married person has sex with someone else. Proverbs 5:18, ERV says: “Be happy with your own wife. Enjoy the woman you married while you were young.” This advice is good. It tells us that a married couple should love each other more and more as they get older. “Let her love always make you happy” (Proverbs 5:19, ICB). And “Stay drunk on her love” (Proverbs 5:19, ERV). 

As sinners, our wish to have sex can lead us away from God’s plan sometimes. But God also gave us the power to think and to choose. So, we must make up our minds to follow only God’s plan for sex. Then we will be truly happy. 

`Do you know someone who is having a hard time following God’s plan for having sex only in marriage? What advice would you give him or her?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/05/02.md, after:

---
title: 'Love The Right Woman'
date: 28/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Proverbs 5:3–14 warns about all the problems that happen when a person has sex with another man’s wife. What problems do these verses warn us about? What bad things happen to people who have sex with someone else’s husband or wife?`

True followers of God will wait until they are married before they have sex. They will save their deepest feelings and their bodies for marriage. Proverbs warns men about having sex with women who are not their wives. But the advice in Proverbs is for wives too. The Song of Solomon talks about why a woman should save herself for marriage (read Song of Solomon 4:12–15). Love that is wrong can feel very strong and powerful. Sin makes us feel good at the time. But we must always remember that this feeling is a lie. Trouble will follow. Sex between two people who are not married is wrong. It shows no loyalty or love. It cannot show true closeness. In the end, sin causes us to waste our time, money, and energy. Then we must answer to God for the wrong choice we made.

Sex is one of God’s most wonderful gifts. But the Bible is clear. Sex is right only when it happens between two people who are married to each other (Matthew 19:5; 1 Corinthians 7:3, 4; Hebrews 13:4). In Proverbs, water is a word picture for the love and joy that a married couple should feel. But dirty water is a word picture for what happens when a married person has sex with someone else. Proverbs 5:18, ERV says: “Be happy with your own wife. Enjoy the woman you married while you were young.” This advice is good. It tells us that a married couple should love each other more and more as they get older. “Let her love always make you happy” (Proverbs 5:19, ICB). And “Stay drunk on her love” (Proverbs 5:19, ERV). 

As sinners, our wish to have sex can lead us away from God’s plan sometimes. But God also gave us the power to think and to choose. So, we must make up our minds to follow only God’s plan for sex. Then we will be truly happy. 

`Do you know someone who is having a hard time following God’s plan for having sex only in marriage? What advice would you give him or her?`
