---
title:  "WHAT MAKES A GOOD FATHER? (Proverbs 14:26)"
date:   29/04/2019
---



**The verses below give some good advice for fathers. What advice is that?**

`Proverbs 13:22; Proverbs 27:23, 24`

`Proverbs 14:26`

`Proverbs 15:1, 18; Proverbs 16:32`

`Proverbs 15:27`

`Proverbs 29:17`

A father’s behavior can make a big difference in his children’s lives. Children need support from their fathers. Children also need their fathers to love them and guide their lives. Proverbs praises dads who take good care of their families. Proverbs also praises wise dads who take good care of everything God gives them. “A greedy person brings trouble to his family. But the person who can’t [cannot] be paid to do wrong will live” (Proverbs 15:27, ICB). Fathers must put their families first. Their families should always be more important to them than their work. Loving fathers always will try to be patient. They will understand how much their children need them. Fathers will punish their children when necessary. But fathers will not be mean when they punish them. Fathers who love God will be controlled by God’s love. They will want to follow God’s teachings. They will teach their children to follow God too. The most important thing a father can do for his kids is love their mother. His children will see this love. It will help them to become good people.

`How has your behavior changed the lives of other people? How has it changed the lives of children? Was the change good or bad? How can you improve your behavior?`