---
title: 'The Right Way To Punish A Child'
date: 30/04/2019
---

`What does Proverbs say about punishing children? Read Proverbs 10:17; Proverbs 23:13, 14; Proverbs 29:1; and Proverbs 29:15 for the answer.`

Why do parents punish their children? Parents want to teach their children to behave and obey. But what is God’s reason? Proverbs can help us answer that question. Proverbs 19:18, NLV, says: “Punish your son if he needs it while there is hope, and do not worry about his crying.” Parents who love God know that their children are born with a wish to sin. Only one power can help their children win the war against sin. This power is Jesus (read Ellen G. White, Education, page 29). Punishing children should lead them to God, not away from Him.

God’s plan is for loving parents to guide their children to Jesus. Parents should correct their children with love and gentle words. They should train their children in the right way when they are young. Parents should help their children not to do wrong. Then children will learn self-control. They will learn to trust God. Then they will follow God and accept His plan to save them.

`What advice does Proverbs 13:24 and Proverbs 23:13, 14 give to parents?`

Only a few verses in the Bible talk about spanking a child. A parent should use spanking the same way that a shepherd uses his sheep stick to guide his flock (Psalm 23:4). The Bible also says that parents must be patient with their children. Parents must be good examples. They should feel close to their children. These things will help their children to be better people (Deuteronomy 11:18, 19). It is very important for children to feel that their parents love them. Then the children will accept the punishment that their parents give them. It will show the children that their parents love them very much (Proverbs 13:24). Then they will want to change. 

`Sometimes parents can be very mean when they punish their kids. What is the best way for parents to punish or correct their children?`