src/en/2019-02-er/05/05.md, before:

---
title: 'Is Life Really Better On A Roof'
date: 01/05/2019
---

`Sometimes the writer of Proverbs says some very funny things. Some examples are Proverbs 21:9, 19 and Proverbs 27:15, 16. In these verses, the writer talks about everyday troubles that married couples have. How does the writer use humor to help us understand what he is talking about?`

Sometimes people who love each other may do the right thing at the wrong time. What about the singer in Proverbs 25:20, NIrV, who does not know when to keep quiet? “You may sing songs to a troubled heart. But that’s [that is] like [the same as] taking a coat away on a cold day. It’s [it is] like [the same as] pouring vinegar on a wound.” Or what about the loud guy in Proverbs 27:14, ERV, who “blesses” his neighbors by shouting a big hello to them very early in the morning? “Don’t [do not] wake up your neighbors early in the morning with a shout of ‘Good morning!’ They will treat it like [the same as] a curse, not a blessing.”

A happy heart helps us get along with our families. “Happiness is good medicine, but sorrow is a disease [sickness]” (Proverbs 17:22, ERV). It is important that we can smile or laugh at our mistakes. Laughing helps us to have a happy heart. A happy heart helps us talk about things that bother us. But we must be careful. We must not laugh at things we need to change but do nothing about.

A low fever may be a sign that we are sick. So, what is our fighting and complaining with our family members a sign of? Fighting and complaining may be signs of deeper problems. Maybe we are very angry with a family member. But we do not know how to tell this person. What is the answer to this problem? First, we must not try to act as if there is no problem. That will not make the problem go away. Then we need to remember our love for the Lord and for each other. Love helps us to open up about what is in our hearts. Then we can fix the problem.

`Why is laughter very important for the home? How can it be used for good? How can it be used for evil? Bring your answer to class.`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/05/05.md, after:

---
title: 'Is Life Really Better On A Roof'
date: 01/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Sometimes the writer of Proverbs says some very funny things. Some examples are Proverbs 21:9, 19 and Proverbs 27:15, 16. In these verses, the writer talks about everyday troubles that married couples have. How does the writer use humor to help us understand what he is talking about?`

Sometimes people who love each other may do the right thing at the wrong time. What about the singer in Proverbs 25:20, NIrV, who does not know when to keep quiet? “You may sing songs to a troubled heart. But that’s [that is] like [the same as] taking a coat away on a cold day. It’s [it is] like [the same as] pouring vinegar on a wound.” Or what about the loud guy in Proverbs 27:14, ERV, who “blesses” his neighbors by shouting a big hello to them very early in the morning? “Don’t [do not] wake up your neighbors early in the morning with a shout of ‘Good morning!’ They will treat it like [the same as] a curse, not a blessing.”

A happy heart helps us get along with our families. “Happiness is good medicine, but sorrow is a disease [sickness]” (Proverbs 17:22, ERV). It is important that we can smile or laugh at our mistakes. Laughing helps us to have a happy heart. A happy heart helps us talk about things that bother us. But we must be careful. We must not laugh at things we need to change but do nothing about.

A low fever may be a sign that we are sick. So, what is our fighting and complaining with our family members a sign of? Fighting and complaining may be signs of deeper problems. Maybe we are very angry with a family member. But we do not know how to tell this person. What is the answer to this problem? First, we must not try to act as if there is no problem. That will not make the problem go away. Then we need to remember our love for the Lord and for each other. Love helps us to open up about what is in our hearts. Then we can fix the problem.

`Why is laughter very important for the home? How can it be used for good? How can it be used for evil? Bring your answer to class.`
