src/en/2019-02-er/05/06.md, before:

---
title: 'A Wonderful Wife'
date: 02/05/2019
---

`Proverbs ends with praise for a wife. What good things about this woman do you see in Proverbs 31:10–31?`

The woman in these verses is very special. These verses are a beautiful poem. Each verse starts with one of the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet. You get the feeling that the writer of Proverbs has many more wonderful things to say about this woman. But he had to stop at 22 nice things. Why? Because he ran out of letters to start new verses!

Proverbs says that we should marry a good life partner. Jewish teachers say the same thing: “A man’s home is his wife.” Proverbs agrees. “A good wife is like [the same as] a crown to her husband, but a shameful wife is like [the same as] a cancer” (Proverbs 12:4, ERV). The woman in Proverbs chapter 31 is clearly a “crown to her husband.” We see that the woman has many different skills. She can make clothes, buy land, plant food, and wisely manage her home and money.

Not every woman will have all these talents. Husbands should not expect their wives to be an exact copy of the woman in Proverbs 31. But Proverbs shows us that the most important thing is not this woman’s skills but who she is. Her skills tell us that she is someone that people can trust. She is loving and gentle. She shows mercy to other people. She works hard. She is loyal. What is the secret to her success? Proverbs 31:30 tells us that she “respects the Lord” (ERV). 

Proverbs 31:10, ERV, says: “How hard it is to find the perfect wife. She is worth far more than jewels.” The word written as “perfect” in the ERV also is written as “excellent” in the NIrV and “good” in the NLV. This word is written as “riches” in Psalm 62:10, ERV. Boaz uses this same word when he says that Ruth is “ ‘a very good woman’ ” (Ruth 3:11, ERV). All these verses show us that true riches are a word picture for someone who loves and obeys the Lord. That is why the Bible says that the woman in Proverbs 31 is worth far more than jewels.   

`Think of the good women who have made a difference in your life. What can you add to the list of skills that a good woman should have? What else should she do and be?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/05/06.md, after:

---
title: 'A Wonderful Wife'
date: 02/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Proverbs ends with praise for a wife. What good things about this woman do you see in Proverbs 31:10–31?`

The woman in these verses is very special. These verses are a beautiful poem. Each verse starts with one of the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet. You get the feeling that the writer of Proverbs has many more wonderful things to say about this woman. But he had to stop at 22 nice things. Why? Because he ran out of letters to start new verses!

Proverbs says that we should marry a good life partner. Jewish teachers say the same thing: “A man’s home is his wife.” Proverbs agrees. “A good wife is like [the same as] a crown to her husband, but a shameful wife is like [the same as] a cancer” (Proverbs 12:4, ERV). The woman in Proverbs chapter 31 is clearly a “crown to her husband.” We see that the woman has many different skills. She can make clothes, buy land, plant food, and wisely manage her home and money.

Not every woman will have all these talents. Husbands should not expect their wives to be an exact copy of the woman in Proverbs 31. But Proverbs shows us that the most important thing is not this woman’s skills but who she is. Her skills tell us that she is someone that people can trust. She is loving and gentle. She shows mercy to other people. She works hard. She is loyal. What is the secret to her success? Proverbs 31:30 tells us that she “respects the Lord” (ERV). 

Proverbs 31:10, ERV, says: “How hard it is to find the perfect wife. She is worth far more than jewels.” The word written as “perfect” in the ERV also is written as “excellent” in the NIrV and “good” in the NLV. This word is written as “riches” in Psalm 62:10, ERV. Boaz uses this same word when he says that Ruth is “ ‘a very good woman’ ” (Ruth 3:11, ERV). All these verses show us that true riches are a word picture for someone who loves and obeys the Lord. That is why the Bible says that the woman in Proverbs 31 is worth far more than jewels.   

`Think of the good women who have made a difference in your life. What can you add to the list of skills that a good woman should have? What else should she do and be?`
