---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   03/05/2019
---



**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT: KEEP YOUR HEARTS IN HEAVEN.**

“Christians must be careful to guard their hearts at all times. They should spend time thinking about God’s words to us in the Bible. They should give themselves fully to God. Many Christians act as if it is a waste of their time to think about God, study the Bible, and pray. I wish everyone saw these things in the way God wants you to see them. Then you will make God’s kingdom number one in your lives. You must keep your heart in heaven. It will give you strength. It will give new life to your work. Train your minds to think about the things of heaven. Then new life and a wish to do what is right will fill everything you do. . . . Our spiritual lives are very weak. We are not as strong and spiritual as we should be [Ephesians 4:13].”—Ellen G. White Comments [ideas], The SDA Bible Commentary [explanation], volume 3, page 1157.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Many Christians say that it is helpful to have good friends to give you support during hard times. How can good friends help us keep our hearts in heaven? Many people fight against the evil wishes and sins in their hearts to do what is wrong. But they cannot seem to win or stop their bad behavior. They may need special help. How can a pastor or other professionals help this person?`

`2. Share your answers to Wednesday’s final question. God gave us the gift of laughing. We laugh at things we find funny. But how can this gift be twisted into something that can hurt us?`

`3. Proverbs 31 shows us a very good woman. She does many things that fill us with respect for her. Compare the picture of the woman in Proverbs 31 with the way women are shown in popular magazines, on TV, or in your community. How can we protect our hearts and minds from these wrong pictures of women?`

`4. How do the people outside the church in your town or community think about family? How important is family to them? Are some of their ideas the same as Bible teachings? If yes, how are they the same? How can these strong ideas make our own families stronger?`