---
title:  Putting God First
date:   12/03/2023
---

`Read the story about King Jehoshaphat in 2 Chronicles 20:1–22. What important rules do we learn from this story? How can these rules help us trust God during hard times?`

Jehoshaphat is the king of Judah. Near the end of Jehoshaphat’s time as king, an army enters his kingdom without permission. Jehoshaphat is very brave and smart. He spent many years making his army and his cities strong. So, the king is ready to protect Israel. Jehoshaphat trusts in God to save him and his people. Jehoshaphat seeks the Lord with all his heart.

Jehoshaphat announces to all his people that they should join him in a fast. A fast is a time when people don’t eat food for a short time. The people come together in the court outside the temple. Long ago, King Solomon told the people to come to the temple and pray when they were in danger. Then God would save them. All the people of Judah stand in front of God. The people pray that God will help them and honor His name. The king prays, “ ‘Our God, punish those people. We don’t have the strength to stop this large army that is coming against us. We don’t know what to do! We are looking to you for help’ ” (2 Chronicles 20:12, ERV).

The people give their hearts to God. Then a man of God gives a message to the people. The man says, “ ‘Don’t be afraid or worry about this large army, because the battle is not your battle. It is God’s battle! Tomorrow, they will come up through the Ziz Pass. You must go down to them. . . . You will not have to fight this battle. Just stand there and watch the Lord save you’ ” (2 Chronicles 20:15–17, ERV).

Early the next morning, the king met with the people. He put the singers at the front of his army to sing praises to God. Then the king told the people, “ ‘Trust in the Lord your God, and you will be made strong. Trust in the men who speak for Him, and you will do well’ ” (2 Chronicles 20:20, NLV). The singers started to sing. The enemies of Judah destroyed each other. None escaped (2 Chronicles 20:24). The men of Judah collected treasure from the dead army for three days. On day 4, the men of Judah came back to Jerusalem. They sang on their way into the city.

The God who saved them is the same God we love and worship. Our job is to trust in Him to lead us.