---
title:  Trust God to Save You
date:   13/03/2023
---

In 1 Samuel 14:1–23, the Bible tells the story about Jonathan. Jonathan was King Saul’s son. Jonathan and the man who helped carry his battle suit won a fight against a very large group of Philistine soldiers. How did Jonathan win the fight? God helped him. David and Jonathan were best friends. David knew about Jonathan’s experience with the Philistines. Sad to say, David didn’t learn from his friend’s experience. David let Satan lead him away from God. David trusted in his own strength and wisdom at this time and not in God.

`Read about David’s sin in 1 Chronicles 21:1–14. Why did David decide to count his soldiers? Why did Joab, his general, tell David not to do it? (Also read 2 Samuel 24:1.)`

Do you see that it was Satan’s idea to count the soldiers? Satan tried to get David to trust in his own strength and not in God to save him. Joab was David’s general. Joab told David not to count the soldiers. But David wanted proof that his army was very strong. A strong army had many soldiers. So, David counted his soldiers to convince himself that his army was very powerful. David had seen God work many times in the past to save Israel. So, Joab said David didn’t need any more proof that God would protect them. When David counted his soldiers, he showed that he didn’t trust in God. David showed that he put more faith in his army than he had in God to save Israel.

When we trust God, we always make the right choice. God will never fail us. At the same time, we ask God to fight for us and with us. We also must prepare for the fight. We must do everything we can to succeed. But in the end, we must understand that only God can help us win.

When times are tough, we must trust in God. We must not trust in our government or in our bank accounts. Look at all the stories in the Bible about people who were in trouble. When the people trusted in God, God helped them. Do you owe money? Trust God right now to help you pay off your loans and credit cards. When we pay what we owe, we will have more money to help people. Christians should not be selfish. We should share with other people the things God gives us.

`We need to do all we can to take care of our needs. At the same time, we need to trust in God for all things. How can we do both things at the same time?`