---
title:  Advice For Today
date:   14/03/2023
---

What should Seventh-day Adventists do during tough times? We know we live in the end times. The Second Coming of Jesus will happen soon. So, we should use our money to support God’s work on earth. People need to know the Good News that Jesus saves us from our sins. We need to tell them about all the wonderful things in heaven that God will give to the ones who love Him. We know that someday soon God will burn everything on this earth.

`Read 2 Peter 3:3–12. What is Peter telling us in these verses?`

We understand from the Bible that God is not sending moving vans to take our stuff to heaven! Everything on earth will burn in the future. This fire will destroy all signs of sin and evil except for the scars in Jesus’ hands.

So, what should we do with all our stuff? “Seventh-day Adventists should not be collecting more stuff. They should be giving things away at this time. Soon, we will move to a better country. That country is heaven. So, let’s not live on this earth as if it is our only home. Let’s keep only the things we really need.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, page 59, adapted.

Yes, Ellen G. White wrote these words more than a hundred years ago! But the important rule is the same: time always is short because our lives are short. Maybe someone may live to be 100 years old. But that’s not a very long time when we compare it to everlasting life. Your life can end in one minute. Then the next time you open your eyes, you see Jesus’ Second Coming. That’s fast, right?

As Seventh-day Adventists, we always must put God first. We must think about everlasting life. Yes, of course, we need to work hard to provide for ourselves and our families. If we have been blessed with wealth, we may enjoy it now with God’s blessing. There is nothing wrong with that. But we must not be selfish or want too much. We must give what we can pay to help poor and needy people. We always must remember that our money and things will be worth nothing when Jesus comes back. If we aren’t careful, our money and things can destroy our spiritual lives.