---
title:  Again, Put God First
date:   15/03/2023
---

We must give everything to God. Then we may serve Him with our whole heart. God will accept nothing less from us. The Bible’s teachings and stories show us this important spiritual truth. We are for God. Or we are against Him. We can’t serve God and serve ourselves at the same time.

Someone asked Jesus which commandment was the most important. Jesus answered, “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart. Love him with all your soul [heart and mind]. Love him with all your mind. And love him with all your strength’ ” (Mark 12:30, WE). When we give everything to Jesus, we have nothing left to give to another master. That is the way it is. That is the way it must be.

`Read Matthew 6:24. What has been your own experience with the Bible truth in this verse?`

Do you see that Jesus didn’t say that it was hard to serve God and money? He didn’t say that we need to be careful in how we serve both. No, Jesus said, that we can’t serve both. It’s impossible. This thought should make us very afraid to try to do that.

`Read 1 John 2:15–17. What three things in these verses does John warn us about? Why are these three things a danger to us?`

No wonder Paul wrote, “Think about things that are in heaven. Don’t think about things that are only on earth” (Colossians 3:2, NIrV). Of course, that’s easier said than done. The things of the earth are right before us every day. Our wish for these things is strong. And so is the wish to have these things right now. So, we must be careful. The good news is that we can control ourselves. We can keep our eyes on the Lord.

`Read 2 Peter 3:10–14. What Bible truth do we learn in these verses? How can this Bible truth change the way we live? How can it help us be good managers with our money?`