---
title:  When No One Can Buy or Sell
date:   16/03/2023
---

The Bible tells us that there will be a time of trouble on this earth before Jesus comes back. Daniel writes about “ ‘a time of much trouble, the worst time since nations [people groups] have been on earth’ ” (Daniel 12:1, ERV).

The book of Revelation also warns us that there will be hard times before the Second Coming.

`Read about the hard times in Revelation 13:11–17. How will Satan use buying and selling to attack God’s loyal followers at the end times?`

You can’t buy or sell? How much of our lives today includes buying and selling? If we can’t buy or sell, we will have a hard time living. We will feel a lot of pressure to do whatever it takes to keep our money safe. The more money we have at that time, the more pressure we will feel to honor the laws of the land.

How do we get ready for that terrible test? We get ready now by making sure we aren’t slaves to our money and our stuff. God will help us with that. If we are not slaves of money and things now, we won’t be slaves of money and things later, when we need to give them up.

`Read God’s command in Deuteronomy 14:22, 23. What did God command His people to do with their crops, oil, wine, and flocks each year? Why did God tell Israel to do this?`

God commanded the Israelites to enjoy the gifts of food that He gave them from the land. Why did God want His people to eat this offering of food? Because the people would learn to love God and be thankful for all He gave them. Then the people would want to obey God with all their hearts. God wants us to enjoy the gifts He gives us, too. Then we will love God and want to obey Him.