---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   17/03/2023
---

The Bible doesn’t say that riches are wrong. But the Bible does tell us that riches don’t make us more loyal to God. Most of the time, riches are a danger to our connection with God. “The love of money and the wish for riches is the same as a gold chain. Satan puts this chain around people and makes them his slaves.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 44, adapted.

Most Christians are not rich. But many of us do have a lot of stuff. We have refrigerators stuffed with more food than we can eat. We may own more than one car. Many of us take vacations every year. Many of us shop online or own the newest computers and fancy smartphones. These things make it easier to love the things on this earth, right? So, we need to be careful. Just because we are not millionaires doesn’t mean we aren’t in danger from riches. Having so many things can cause us to forget God. That’s why God commanded us to pay tithe. As we saw, tithe is 10% of all the money we get. This plan is a powerful blessing that will help keep us safe from the dangers of money. Money can be dangerous, even when you have little money.

**Discussion questions**:

`Maybe we aren’t rich. What danger can money and riches be to us if we’re poor? Why must we be careful?`

`God commanded us to pay tithe to keep us safe from loving the things of this life more than we should. What else can we do, along with paying tithe, to make sure we’re safe from loving money?`

`What if you were told you can no longer buy or sell anything tomorrow? What if you are told that you won’t be allowed to buy or sell tomorrow because you keep the commandments of God and you have the same faith Jesus had (Revelation 14:12)? What will you choose to do?`