---
title:  Unity From the Inside Out
date:  22/12/2018
---

**Introduction**: 1 John 1:7–2:2

“That they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me” (John 17:21, ESV). In literature, there are three types of conflict that propel a plot forward: man versus nature, man versus man, and man versus himself. It is the latter conflict, man versus himself, that is pertinent to church unity.

“But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us” (1 John 1:7, 8, ESV). Scripture shows us that there is an innate internal conflict in our souls, a grand battle between light and darkness, a conflict that is evident in our minds, hearts, and behaviors on a daily basis. So as divided individuals, how can we expect to become a united church? What does it mean to be united to oneself?

Being united to oneself is not perfection. Perfection is not what the Father is after. No, His desire is much deeper. His desire is a heart that is oriented in a yes to His commandment. His heart is for us to abide in Him in the love that He has shown us through His mandates.

“And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments” (1 John 2:3, ESV). John tells us we will sin. And he gives us the solution. “If anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for the sins of the whole world” (verses 1, 2, ESV).

So walking in the light is a daily heart orientation. It is a choice to follow the ultimate commandment to love. And it is a humble choice to continuously go back to the Cross with the ugliness of our flesh. This is the way to become an integrated whole. This is the way of light.

When we abide in the light, John tells us, we will have fellowship with one another. No longer will we look to others to complete us because we have found our home in abiding in Christ in us. We are free. Free to enjoy each other fully. Free to serve each other joyfully. Free to call out each other’s gifting without envy. But that freedom begins in our own hearts.

---

_Luke Hart, Los Angeles, California, USA_