---
title:  Unity
date:  24/12/2018
---

**Testimony**: Eph. 4:2–6

“In union there is strength; in disunion there is weakness. God’s chosen ones are to reveal to the world their union one with another. It is not possible for a few to walk to heaven alone because they can agree with no others. God’s people are to be a unit. If some entertain ideas so peculiar that others cannot accept them, they should compare notes in a teachable spirit, and all should be willing to learn. They should make the most strenuous efforts to be one, to come into the unity of the faith in the bonds of peace.

“Our names are registered as Christians. We go to the Lord’s table; we profess to be sons and daughters of God, members of the Lord’s family, children of the Heavenly King. But too often those who claim to love Jesus, deny him by their lack of confidence in one another. Too often evil is watched for, actions are viewed in the worst light, words are misconstrued and misinterpreted. Many talk earnestly about the faults of others, but their own faults trouble them little. If they would devote their voices to the confession of their own sins, it would be better. God knows the ways of his children. Every word, every thought, every motive, is open before the eyes of him who sees all things. Then let us show that we love Jesus by enthroning him in our hearts, by denying self for the sake of others. Let us work together harmoniously, as staunch members of one family. . . .

“The word of God clearly points out our duty. We are to cultivate kindness and forbearance and love.”1

**React**

`1. Can unity and diversity go hand in hand, or are the realities either/ or? Is unity still possible when church members disagree?`

`2. Think about a topic that divided your church in the past. How was unity accomplished? Think about a topic that currently divides your church. What can you do to help create unity?`

`3. Does unity apply only within the Seventh-day Adventist Church, or are there ways for Christians of different denominations to unite? How could you be a part of that unity?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, “Christian Unity,” Review and Herald, April 27, 1897.</sup>

_Sarah Ventura, Winona, Minnesota, USA_