---
title:  Recovered Connection
date:  25/12/2018
---

**Evidence**: Heb. 10:24, 25

“And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near” (Heb. 10:24, 25, ESV). According to this passage, Paul understands the necessity of banding together here on earth as a prerequisite to being “caught up together . . . to meet the Lord in the air” (1 Thess. 4:17). This imperative for humanity to connect with one another can be found throughout the Bible as a remedy to humankind’s sinful nature, which has caused separation from God and division from one another.

Made in the image of God, the Three in One, it is unnatural for humankind to live divided. Resting at the foundation of this division can be found the deteriorating influence of fear. Examining the lives of Adam and Eve, we can see that through indulged disobedience, they ran from the sound of God’s voice and, sadly, from each other. Instead of taking responsibility for their own actions, they looked to cast blame elsewhere, abandoning the foundation of their relationship—cleaving to become one. However, their fears are relieved by the promised defeat of the serpent, the very cause that instigated their separation. Jesus—the fulfillment of this promise, crushing the head of the serpent— comforts His followers, “Let not your heart be troubled. . . . Where I am, there ye may be also” (John 14:1, 3). This begins to implant hope in the hearts of those who follow Him, opening the doors for proper connection to exist among us. Hope is the single, most powerful weapon against fear!

Banding together is essential to facilitate proper relationships among us. In Acts 2:1, the disciples of Christ are together in one place, with one accord, ready to receive the power that will enable them to preach the gospel to the world. They understood that connection with one another and with God was key in fulfilling the command Jesus gave in Matthew 28:19, to go to all the world.

Going back to Hebrews 10:24, 25, Paul exhorts the people of God not to forsake the assembling of themselves as they see the day approaching. What day? The second coming of Christ! The blessed hope is that one day you and I, together, will be able to enjoy the presence of the Lord for all eternity. Nonetheless, before that day comes, we must enjoy the sweet fellowship that comes with banding together. As we grow in wisdom and stature, let us never forget to grow in favor with God and with those whom we come in contact with every single day!

---

_Rayshaun Williams, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_