---
title:  First-Class Heavenly Seats
date:  26/12/2018
---

**How-to**: 1 Sam. 16:7; Luke 6:45; 1 Thess. 4:13–18

Read 1 Thessalonians 4:16–18. Trumpet blasts overpower your hearing. Light brighter than a thousand suns pierces your squinting eyes. A soft force wafts you up slowly toward the epicenter of this cloudlike group of winged messengers. You’re going home; Jesus has come!

But as you rise, you look around. Some friends and family have to wait. Fewer angels surround them; they can’t quite hear the trumpets. As your eyes adjust to the blinding light, you notice that Jesus draws nearer to some than to others. Seemingly, Jesus isn’t too excited to save them . . . Is that how you picture the Second Coming? Or have you always assumed that Jesus loves us equally and is excited to have us all with Him in heaven? If that’s how you assumed Jesus is, are you that way? Or do you treat people as A-class and B-class in your mind?

As Christians, “We, according to His promise, look for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells” (2 Pet. 3:13, NKJV). In God’s new heaven and new earth, all broken relationships are healed (Isa. 11:1– 10). And here’s the key: God wants heaven to start in us today (Matt. 6:10). The real-world application is where heavenly living can be messy. So here are a few ideas to help us overcome our tendency to have A and B classes:

Know God’s love. It’s simple; you can’t give something you don’t have. If you’re insecure about God’s love for you, then you’ll fumble every time you try to share His love (Luke 6:45; 1 John 4:19).

Review your perspective. Whenever you feel the urge to raise your nose at someone (meaning they’re probably annoying or weird, etc.), listen to God’s Spirit as He tells you what He thinks about that person. Can God help you see as He does? (1 Sam. 16:7; John 9:5–7).

Be the initiator. Often, we expect the other person to apologize or repent or change their ways first. But if both people do that, change will never come, and the hurt will continue. Instead, be OK with the awkward feeling of breaking the ice; it’s worth it (Matt. 5:23, 24).

**React**

`Can you think of people with whom you wish the relationship was better or that the baggage could be forgiven? Have you done everything in your power to make a change?`

---

_Joshua Hester, Council Bluffs, Iowa, USA_