---
title:  Unity in the Body of Christ
date:  27/12/2018
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 12:9–21; 1 Cor. 12:12, 13; Phil. 2:1–4; Eph. 4:1–6

Ever since the first century, the church has struggled with unity, disagreeing on all sorts of topics. With all of the different teachings and beliefs and worldviews that are out there today, how can we ever hope to be united as a church? Can a house that is divided stand?

God gave us a gift so that we could be unified to have love within us and among one another. The gift He gave was the person of the Holy Spirit! God gave us a Helper and Comforter. God no longer dwells partially in a sanctuary made by humans but in the sanctuary of our hearts, which He made. He desires us. We need to be of one Spirit, the Holy Spirit. If the Holy Spirit doesn’t dwell within the people of God, they have no part with God and He has no part with them. The Holy Spirit is the one who unites the kingdom of God into one body and purpose.

We must be united in a love-filled, Christlike community and be fulfilling God’s will and purpose for His church as ambassadors of the ministry of reconciliation. We are to be united by the love for our Creator and the purpose of His will. Too long have many of us not heeded the Spirit’s calling to love our brothers and sisters in the church, using our sinfulness as a crutch. We must submit ourselves to the Spirit so that He can fulfill within us the law and character of God. We need to have produced in us the good fruit of righteousness.

God is calling us to make a stand for His truth, which is the gospel of love— not just intellectually but also in word and deed. We need to reach out in love to the lonely, hurting, needy, and oppressed within the family of God, as well as invite those who have yet to accept the wonderful gift. Are we praying hard enough for the Holy Spirit to fill us, use us, and transform us? Are we setting aside our pride to allow room for God’s love to grow in the soil of our hearts?

**React**

`1. What is one thing you can do this week to seek spiritual unity with your spiritual family?`

`2. Whom in your life does God bring to mind who needs to know the love of God? How could you be a tangible expression of God’s love to them this week?`

---

_David Clark, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_