---
title:  Our Guide for a Common Purpose
date:  28/12/2018
---

**Exploration**: Col. 3:12–14

**Conclude**

Life is chock-full of traditions that involve groups of people coming together with a common purpose: holidays, weddings, volunteer work, business. And, as we have been studying this week, unifying with purpose under the love of Christ as His living and breathing body on earth. Where there is unification, accomplishment is inevitable. When it comes to progress, the ways to move forward are not always clear. Moving forward can also be intimidating when it comes to change. The beauty is, we don’t have to face the future alone or be afraid. We have each other. And with God’s love and guidance we can have peace, knowing that we are on the right path.

**Consider**

- Thinking of challenges facing your church members’ lives and gathering a prayer team to pray for them. And if possible, pray over them and show your personal support.
- Surprising your pastor or elder (and their family if applicable) with a home-cooked meal. Often pastors are busy behind the scenes doing a lot of amazing work to unify the congregation. Show them their hard work is noticed. An added step could be to get a group together to make more than one meal. This is another opportunity to unify for a common purpose.
- Writing a letter to a person whom you’ve struggled to get along with in the past to either build up that relationship with affirmations or mend a relationship that has been broken. Pray for inspiration. Steps toward healing the broken relationships of our pasts can bring people together in a powerful way that creates unity.
- Organizing a group of friends from school or church to go on a camping trip. Those who play together stay together. And by making valuable memories, you will be creating a foundation for beautiful relationships. As a bonus, add team-building exercises to the outing.
- Going to a garage sale and collecting random items. Use them to build a sculpture that represents unity in Christ. Get creative! Post a photo of the sculpture on Facebook and write a short blurb about what it means to you.


**Connect**

Romans 6:1–10; 12:3–8; Galatians 3:26–28; Ephesians 1:3–14; 4:11– 16; Philippians 2:1–11.

Ellen White, “Christian Unity,” Review and Herald, April 27, 1897.

---

_Cassi Fitzpatrick, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA_