---
title:  The Way That Seems Right in a Man’s Eyes
date:  28/05/2023
---

In the context of the last days, Jesus uttered a powerful warning, “ ‘For false christs and false prophets will rise and show signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect’ ” (Mark 13:22, NKJV). Who are “the elect”? He later says, “ ‘And He will send His angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together His elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other’ ” (Matt. 24:31, NKJV). A little scary, isn’t it, when the deception in the last days will be so great that even the faithful ones will be in danger of being deceived?

`Read Revelation 12:9. Who is deceived by Satan? How do we understand these words?`

Obviously, God is going to have some faithful people in the last days, as He has had all through the ages. However, the wording here shows just how widespread Satan’s deception really is.

`Read Proverbs 14:12. What powerful warning is presented here?`

People are often told to follow their own conscience in order to determine for themselves what is right or wrong, good or evil, and then live accordingly. But the Scripture says that we are all sinners, all corrupted (Jer. 17:9, Rom. 3:9–18), and so to trust our own sentiments is almost a guaranteed way to, sooner or later, get it wrong and even to do wrong. A lot of evil has been perpetrated through the ages by people utterly convinced of the rightness of their cause. That is, they followed the “way that seems right” to them.

Instead, we must immerse ourselves in the Word of God, and from His Word, as we surrender to the Holy Spirit, learn truth from error, right from wrong, good from evil. Left to our own devices, or even to our own senses, we can become easy prey to Satan’s deceptions.

`Think through examples of people who have acted based on what they themselves believed was right, or even what they believed was God’s will but have done evil things. What can we learn from these tragic events?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Once let impulse and emotion get the mastery over calm judgment, and there may be altogether too much speed, even in traveling a right road. He who travels too fast will find it perilous in more ways than one. It may not be long before he will branch off from the right road into a wrong path.<br/>
Not once should feeling be allowed to get the mastery over judgment. There is danger of excess in that which is lawful, and that which is not lawful will surely lead into false paths. If there is not careful, earnest, sensible work, solid as a rock in the advancement of every idea and principle, and in every representation given, souls will be ruined. . . .<br/>
Many suppose an emotion or a rapture of feeling to be an evidence of the presence of the Holy Spirit. There is danger that right sentiments will not be understood, and that Christ’s words, “Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you” (Matthew 28:20), will lose their significance. . . . Tell our people: “Be not anxious to bring in something not revealed in the Word. Keep close to Christ”—Selected Messages, book 2, pp. 17, 18.

Jesus has raised his voice in warning: “Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits” (Matthew 7:15, 16). “Thus saith the Lord of hosts, hearken not unto the words of the prophets that prophesy unto you: they make you vain: they speak a vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of the Lord” (Jeremiah 23:16). “If any man shall say to you, Lo here is Christ, or lo, he is there, believe him not; for false Christs and false prophets shall arise, and shall shew signs and wonders to seduce, if it were possible, even the elect. But take ye heed; behold, I have foretold you all things” (Mark 13:21-23).—Selected Messages, book 3, p. 341.

God has given men no liberty to depart from His requirements. The Lord had declared to Israel, “Ye shall not do . . . every man whatsoever is right in his own eyes;” but ye shall “observe and hear all these words which I command thee.” Deuteronomy 12:8, 28. In deciding upon any course of action we are not to ask whether we can see that harm will result from it, but whether it is in keeping with the will of God. “There is a way which seemeth right unto a man; but the end thereof are the ways of death.” Proverbs 14:12. . . .<br/>
No stronger evidence can be given of Satan’s delusive power than that many who are thus led by him deceive themselves with the belief that they are in the service of God. When Korah, Dathan, and Abiram rebelled against the authority of Moses, they thought they were opposing only a human leader, a man like themselves; and they came to believe that they were verily doing God service. . . . The same spirit still exists in the hearts of those who set themselves to follow their own will in opposition to the will of God.—Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 634, 635.