---
title:  Further Thought
date:  20/09/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “In Pilate’s Judgment Hall,” pp. 723–740; “Calvary,” pp. 741–757;  “ ‘It Is Finished,’ ” pp. 758–764, in _The Desire of Ages_.

“Pilate longed to deliver Jesus. But he saw that he could not do this, and yet retain his own position and honor. Rather than lose his worldly power, he chose to sacrifice an innocent life. How many, to escape loss or suffering, in like manner sacrifice principle. Conscience and duty point one way, and self-interest points another. The current sets strongly in the wrong direction, and he who compromises with evil is swept away into the thick darkness of guilt.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, p. 738.

“Upon Christ as our substitute and surety was laid the iniquity of us all. He was counted a transgressor, that He might redeem us from the condemnation of the law. The guilt of every descendant of Adam was pressing upon His heart. The wrath of God against sin, the terrible manifestation of His displeasure because of iniquity, filled the soul of His Son with consternation. All His life Christ had been publishing to a fallen world the good news of the Father’s mercy and pardoning love. Salvation for the chief of sinners was His theme. But now with the terrible weight of guilt He bears, He cannot see the Father’s reconciling face. The withdrawal of the divine countenance from the Saviour in this hour of supreme anguish pierced His heart with a sorrow that can never be fully understood by man. So great was this agony that His physical pain was hardly felt.”—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 753.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Look at how central the theology of substitution was to Ellen G. White and also to the Bible (see, for instance, Isaiah 53). Why is any theology that downplays the central role of substitution and Christ’s dying in our stead, paying in Himself the penalty for our sins, a false theology?`

`Who or what is the “Barabbas” in today’s world that gets asked for instead of Jesus?`

`What should the story of Joseph of Arimathea tell us about not judging outward appearances?`

`Review Daniel 9:24–27. Why should you be able to give a Bible study on this section to anyone who asks? Can you?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Lift Him Up_, “Conqueror Over the Power of Darkness,” p. 235;\
_The Desire of Ages_, “ ‘It Is Finished,’ ” pp. 758–764.