---
title:  No Middle Ground
date:  15/11/2021
---

All through the Bible, we are presented with one of two choices. Two options are presented here for us.

**Read the following texts. What two options, what two choices, are either openly stated or implied in these texts, and how are these options presented?**

`John 3:16`

`Gen. 7:22, 23`

`Rom. 6:23`

`Rom. 8:6`

`1 John 5:12`

`Matt. 7:24–27`

In the end, there is no middle ground for us human beings. Before the great controversy is completely over, sin, Satan, evil, disobedience, and rebellion will be eradicated. After that happens, each one of us, individually, will either have the life, the eternal life, that God origi­nally had planned for us all to have before the Creation of the world, or face eternal death, that is, ”everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of His power” (2 Thess. 1:9, NKJV). The Bible doesn’t appear to present any other options for us.

Which fate will be ours? That answer, ultimately, rests with us. We have the choice before us, life or death.

`In the context of eternal life or eternal death, why is the biblical truth that hell is not burning and torturing people forever such a comforting truth? What would it say about the character of God were eternal, conscious torment truly the fate of the lost?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Romans 6:23.<br/>
Man was originally endowed with noble powers and a well-­balanced mind. He was perfect in his being, and in harmony with God. His thoughts were pure, his aims holy. But through dis­obedience, his powers were perverted, and selfishness took the place of love. His nature became so weakened through transgression that it was impossible for him, in his own strength, to resist the power of evil. He was made captive by Satan, and would have remained so forever had not God specially interposed. It was the tempter’s purpose to thwart the divine plan in man’s creation, and fill the earth with woe and desolation. . . .<br/>
God does not force the will of His creatures. He cannot accept an homage that is not willingly and intelligently given. . . . He desires that man, the crowning work of His creative power, shall reach the highest possible development. He sets before us the height of blessing to which He desires to bring us through His grace. He invites us to give ourselves to Him, that He may work His will in us. It remains for us to choose whether we will be set free from the bondage of sin, to share the glorious liberty of the sons of God.—_God’s Amazing Grace_, p. 313.

Each human being is given the freedom of choice. It is his to decide whether he will stand under the black banner of rebellion or under the blood-stained banner of Prince Emmanuel. With deep solicitude Heaven watches the conflict between good and evil. None but the obedient can enter the gates of the city of God. Upon those who choose to continue in transgression the death sentence must at last be pronounced. The earth will be purified from their misdoings, their defiance of God. . . .<br/>
. . . The rules of life that the Lord has given will make men pure and happy and holy. Those only who obey these rules can hear from the lips of Christ the words, “Come up higher.”—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 361.

Satan told his angels to make a special effort to spread the lie first repeated to Eve in Eden, “Ye shall not surely die.” And as the error was received by the people, and they were led to believe that man was immortal, Satan led them on to believe that the sinner would live in eternal misery. Then the way was prepared for Satan to work through his representatives and hold up God before the people as a revengeful tyrant—one who plunges all those into hell who do not please Him,  and causes them ever to feel His wrath; and while they suffer unutterable anguish, and writhe in the eternal flames, He is represented as looking down upon them with satisfaction. Satan knew that if this error should be received, God would be hated by many, instead of being loved and adored; and that many would be led to believe that the threatenings of God’s Word would not be literally fulfilled, for it would be against His character of benevolence and love to plunge into eternal torments the beings whom He had created.—_Early Writings_, pp. 218, 219.