---
title:  Further Thought
date:  19/11/2021
---

Then, as now, we all are given a choice. The crucial word here is choice. Unlike a certain understanding of Christianity, in which, even before humans were born, God predestined some people not just to be lost but even to burn in hell forever, Scripture teaches that our own free choice of life or death, blessing or cursing, good or evil, determines which triad—life, good, blessing or death, evil, cursing—we will ultimately face. And how good to know that even if someone makes the wrong choice, the result is death, eternal death, not eternal torment in a never-ending lake of fire.

“ ‘The wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.’ Romans 6:23. While life is the inheritance of the righteous, death is the portion of the wicked. Moses declared to Israel: ‘I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil.’ Deuteronomy 30:15. The death referred to in these scriptures is not that pronounced upon Adam, for all mankind suffer the penalty of his transgression. It is ‘the second death’ that is placed in contrast with everlasting life.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 544.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In class, talk more about the idea presented in Tuesday’s study, about whether it is God who directly brings punishment here and now for disobedience or whether it comes as a law-like consequence of the acts of disobedience. Or might it be both? Might there be cases where it is one or the other? How do we understand this topic?`

`What do the texts we looked at in the Ellen White statement today teach us about the power of God available to us to overcome sin?`

`Read Romans 10:1–10, where Paul quotes from Deuteronomy 30:11–14 as he expounds on salvation by faith in Jesus in contrast to seeking salvation and righteousness through the law. Why do you think he used these verses from Deuteronomy? Pay special attention to Romans 10:10: “For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation” (NKJV). What point is Paul making?`

`What are ways that your own culture, your own society, your own people group, could hold views that, if you aren’t careful, could lead you into false worship?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Upward Look_, “Right or Wrong Side—Which?” p. 140;<br/>
_The Faith I Live By_, “Life or Death?” p. 71.<br/>