---
title:  Debt - A Daily Decision
date:   10/03/2018
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Ps. 37:21, Matt. 4:3-10, Matt. 6:33, Deut. 28:12, Prov. 13:11, Prov. 21:5, 2 Cor. 4:18.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Give to everyone what you owe them: If you owe taxes, pay taxes; if revenue, then revenue; if respect, then respect; if honor, then honor. Let no debt remain outstanding, except the continuing debt to love one another, for whoever loves others has fulfilled the law” (Romans 13:7, 8, NIV).

Sometimes you can be lucky enough to find someone who is willing to lend you money. Maybe that person does it with a pure motive - that is, he or she actually wants to help you out of a financial jam. But in most cases, people don’t lend you money out of the goodness of their hearts. They lend you money because they want to earn more (of your) money in return.

We should do all that we can to avoid debt. Of course, in certain circumstances, such as buying a house or a car, building a church, or getting an education, we need to borrow money. But it must be done as wisely as possible, with the intent of getting out of the debt as soon as possible.

Yet we must be careful. Spending money we don’t have is the gateway for God’s people to “make covetousness and love of earthly treasures the ruling traits of their character. As long as these traits rule, salvation and grace stand back.” - Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 267.

We are to improve our skills and abilities so that we can stay disciplined and do all that we can to avoid debt. This week we will look at what the Bible says concerning debt.

*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, March 17.*
