---
title:  Saving and Investing
date:   15/03/2018
---

Ants labor to save provisions for the winter (Prov. 6:6-8). We are wise to consider their ways when we save money routinely for a specific purpose. The point in saving is to have resources available for our living expenses or needs as opposed to wasting or hoarding what we earn. Managing money requires wisdom, budgeting, and discipline. If all we do is save for ourselves, we are pilfering God’s possessions instead of stewarding them.

“Money needlessly spent is a double loss. Not only is it gone, but its potential for earnings is also gone. Had we set it aside, it could have been multiplying on earth through savings or in heaven through giving.  . . .  Saving is a discipline that develops authority over money. Instead of letting money take us wherever our whims incline, we take control.” - Randy C. Alcorn, Money, Possessions and Eternity (Carol Stream: Illinois, Tyndale House Publishers, 2003), p. 328.

`Read Proverbs 13:11, Proverbs 21:5, and Proverbs 13:18. What practical words are here for us that can help us deal better with financial issues?`

Stewards save for family needs and invest in heaven when managing God’s assets. It is not about how much one possesses, but about having a biblical management plan in place, whatever your financial situation happens to be. Saving for family needs should be done wisely. To minimize any loss, spread out the risk (Eccles. 11:1, 2). Working at such minimization prior to your wants (Prov. 24:27) and then seeking qualified advice from others (Prov. 15:22) are two successful tools in this model. As needs are met and wealth grows, we must “remember the LORD your God, for it is [H]e who gives you the ability to produce wealth” (Deut. 8:18, NIV).

The most secure investment model for God’s steward is to invest in “the kingdom of heaven” (Matt. 13:44). There are no recessions, risks, thieves, or market downturns. It’s like having a purse or wallet that will never wear out (Luke 12:33). Accepting Christ opens the account, and returning tithe and giving offerings are deposits. That is, however much we need to take care of our worldly and earthly things here, such as paying the bills, we must still always keep our focus on eternal truths.

`Read 2 Corinthians 4:18. How can we keep this truth always before us while at the same time living as responsible stewards here?`
