---
title:  Further Thought
date:   16/03/2018
---

Every natural ability, skill, or gift comes from God, whether we were genetically born with it, influenced and educated by our environment, or both. The important part of the equation is what we do with the abilities and skills we have. God expects stewards to learn to be masters of their skills and abilities through education and practical experience (Eccles. 10:10).

Bezalel was filled “with the Spirit of God, in wisdom and understanding, in knowledge and all manner of workmanship” (Exod. 35:31, NKJV). He and Aholiab (Exod. 35:34) had the ability to teach others their craft.

We can learn to be better stewards and specifically to eliminate debt while living in a materialistic world. We should always be developing our skills through reading, seminars, formal education, (whenever possible), and ultimately practice what we have learned. Growing our skills enables us to give our best to God and to be good stewards.

The parable of the talents indicates that each servant received talents “according to his own ability” (Matt. 25:15, NKJV). Two servants doubled their amounts; the third hid his in the ground. We should always strive to improve what we have, but burying the talent did not show any ability or skill. Managing money, getting out of debt, cultivating discipline, and practical experience develop competencies that are blessed by God. To become successful and good at something, we must repeat it again and again.

“As the lessons of the Bible are wrought into the daily life, they have a deep and lasting influence upon the character. These lessons Timothy learned and practiced. He had no specially brilliant talents, but his work was valuable because he used his God-given abilities in the Master’s service.” - Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 205.

**Discussion Questions:**

`1. Though self-control is always important for the Christian, it is especially important when a lack of self-control can lead to financial hardship or even ruin. What can we as a church do to help those who could be in danger of this problem?`

`2. Read Romans 13:7, 8. How can we apply these words to our daily lives and in all our interactions with others?`

`3. Some argue that we shouldn’t worry about getting in debt, because Jesus is coming back soon. How would you respond to that assertion?`
