---
title:  Having Faith
date:   16/05/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Mark 8:11, 12; Mark 4:40; Ephesians 2:8; Hebrews 11; Revelation 14:12.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Faith means being sure of the things we hope for. And faith means knowing that something is real even if we do not see it” (Hebrews 11:1, ICB).

Someone said, “Faith is the same as Wi-Fi or an internet connection. You can’t see Wi-Fi. But it connects you to the power you need.” For sure, we can’t see faith. But we can’t have a relationship with God without faith.

How strong is your faith in God today? Was your faith weak in the past? Maybe you had an experience that caused you to doubt. Now you are stuck in your relationship with God. You aren’t growing anymore. You don’t know what to do to solve the problem. Or maybe your faith is the same as a rosebud that opens into a beautiful flower and fills a room with its perfume? As the memory verse for this week says, “Faith means being sure of the things we hope for. And faith means knowing that something is real even if we do not see it” (Hebrews 11:1, ICB). We can’t give ourselves faith. The Bible says, “Keep in mind [remember] the faith God has given to each of you” (Romans 12:3, NIrV). Faith is a gift from God (Romans 12:3; Ephesians 2:8, 9). We have faith in God because of everything He already does in us and for us.

This week, we explore the topic of faith. What do we do with doubt? What does Jesus tell us about strong faith? Also, what does it mean to have “the faith of [that comes from] Jesus” (Revelation 14:12, KJV)?