---
title:  Just Give Me A Sign!
date:   17/05/2026
---

Maybe you heard someone say, “If I could just see God part the Red Sea, or Jesus heal a blind man! Then I’d believe.” Maybe you thought these same things yourself.

Is it easier for us now to have faith than the Israelites had in Bible times? The Israelites didn’t own a whole Bible. They also didn’t have a long history to look at and study, as we do. Moses taught the people to remember God’s leading and His love to them in the past (read Deuteronomy 4:7–10; Deuteronomy 8:2, 3). We are different from the Israelites. We have 6,000 years of Bible history to help us (read John 20:30, 31)!

In every age, people want a sign or proof for God. But proof for God is all around us. If you read Matthew 24, you will see how many things already happened that Jesus ­talked about. Many of these things are happening now.

`People in Jesus’ day wanted Him to give them a sign as proof that He really was God’s Son. God already gave them so many signs. How did Jesus answer in Mark 8:11, 12?`

Do we argue with Jesus and give Him a test the same as the Jewish leaders did? Do we make Jesus “[cry] with a low, sad sound” (Mark 8:12, EASY) because we don’t have faith? Jesus already gave us everything we need to believe.

“The Jews didn’t need signs. Proof wouldn’t help them. They didn’t need more knowledge. They needed new hearts.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 406, adapted. What about us? Do we also need new hearts? Do we need a real relationship with God? Maybe we don’t need a sign at all. We have so much knowledge already in our Bibles.

So, let’s not make Jesus “[cry] with a low, sad sound” (Mark 8:12, EASY) because we don’t have faith. Remember Jesus’ words to Thomas: “ ‘You believe because you have seen me. Other people have not seen me, but they do believe in me. God is really happy with those people’ ” (John 20:29, EASY; also read Hebrews 11:1). God doesn’t ask us to believe without giving us reasons for our faith. He already gave us so many reasons. But God never forces us to have faith. We can choose to doubt if we want. Or we can think about the things that help our faith grow strong.

`In just 60 seconds, talk about your faith in God. What does your answer tell you about your relationship with Him?`