---
title:  Examples Of Faith
date:   20/05/2026
---

**Spend time today reading Hebrews 11. Read the chapter without stopping. Then read it a second time. Write down your thoughts to the questions below:**

- Read verse 1 again. What do you hope for today that you can’t see now? (Think of both your needs for this life and your spiritual needs.)
- What part does faith have in your personal story about Jesus and how He gave you a new heart and life?
- Read verse 3 again. God made the earth and the skies. He is alive. Why should this Bible truth be the easiest thing for us to believe?
- Read verse 6. Write the message of this verse in your own words.
- Verses 7–40 talk about the lives of different people in the Bible. Why is faith an important part of their relationship with God?

We need faith to have a living, strong relationship with God. How can you have more faith? How can you help someone whose faith is weak? Here are some ideas:

**A small amount of faith (the same as a mustard seed) is powerful. A little bit is all you need to grow a relationship with God (Matthew 17:20).** Are you willing to work with God? Then He will help your faith grow.

**Faith comes from hearing God talk to us in His Word, the Bible (Romans 10:17).** Study the Bible and pray daily.

**Ask God to help your faith grow (Luke 17:5).** Remember the father with the child who was filled with a demon? The father came to Jesus. “He [the man] said with tears in his eyes, ‘Lord, I have faith. Help my weak faith to be stronger [grow more powerful]!’ ” (Mark 9:24, NLV). We can see our need. We can ask God to give us more faith.

**Don’t give up your faith because you have doubts (Mark 9:24).** Don’t stop trusting God because you have questions you can’t answer. Take your questions to God. Let your life show God saves you (Philippians 2:12–16).

**Accept the Holy Spirit.** Ask God for more of the Holy Spirit in your life.

**Live your faith.** Remember that faith isn’t a feeling. Faith is a decision to believe. Remember in hard times that when you can’t see God, He is there (2 Corinthians 5:7).

**Thank God for His help.** Read the hymn “Great Is Thy Faithfulness.” Make it your personal prayer of thanks.