---
title:  Jesus’ Faith
date:   21/05/2026
---

Soon this earth’s history will end. The Three Angels’ Messages talk about God’s people at that time. God’s people will keep God’s commandments and have Jesus’ faith.

`Read Revelation 14:12. What does Jesus’ faith or “the faith of Jesus” (NKJV) mean?`

In the 1890s, Seventh-day Adventists came to an understanding about “the faith of Jesus” and the Three Angels’ Messages. Until that time, the church’s teaching about the law didn’t include enough about the Good News. Ellen G. White wrote: “As a church, we announced that we must keep God’s law. But we didn’t announce that Jesus’ faith is also important. The law and the Good News are connected.”—Selected Messages, book 3, page 172, adapted.

Hebrews 11 gives us a list of holy men and women who had strong faith. But no one had faith the same as Jesus.

`Read the story in Matthew 26:36–42. What do these verses teach us about Jesus’ faith in this story?`

When we have Jesus’ faith, we will obey Him and the Bible. We will copy the faith that Jesus had in God. Also, we will have a living experience with Jesus every day. Jesus must be the most important part of our daily lives. Without Him, we can’t have a saving relationship with God.

When we have Jesus’ faith, Jesus will live in us. His faith will live in our hearts. Jesus is the reason for our faith. At times, our faith may be weak. But Jesus is strong and worthy (Revelation 5:9). We can have Jesus’ faith. Then our own lives will show His faith is in us. We will be living proof that God gives His gift of love and forgiveness to everyone who believes.

`How much do you want Jesus’ faith? Ask God to help you empty your heart of all pride. Ask Him to give you this faith. Make Hebrews 11:6 your personal prayer, saying, “Lord, without faith, I can’t make You happy. I come to You and believe that You live. I believe that You will reward me when I seek You with all my heart. I do so now. Amen.”`