---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   22/05/2026
---

God forgives and accepts us when we believe in His love and forgiveness. God offers these gifts to us because of Jesus. God also makes us holy because of our faith (Acts 26:18). When we invite Jesus into our lives, we also become God’s children (John 1:12). We live with faith in the Son of God (Galatians 2:20).

“Without Jesus, we are nothing. We are helpless. Only Jesus can save us. When we understand this Bible truth, we are no longer weak. We become strong. Jesus can live in our hearts. Prayer, Bible study, and faith bring Jesus into our lives. Jesus will hold on to us. He will not let go.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 182, adapted.

“Make your faith strong with prayer and fasting or going without food for a short time. Empty your heart of all pride and self. Be filled with the Spirit of God and His power. Ask God with all your heart for these things. Ask with faith that causes you to depend completely on God. Give your whole life to Him to serve Him and do His work. Then the Holy Spirit will help you fight against evil angels and leaders on this earth.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 431, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`The Holy Spirit helps us fight against Satan and his angels. What five things does the quote above from The Desire of Ages say we must do to win this fight?`

`What part does faith have in the fight against evil?`

`How is the Holy Spirit helping you win the fight against evil right now in your life?`

`Read Hebrews 10:23. What Bible truth does this verse teach? What promise is in this verse? Why is it so important to hold on to our faith and share it with other people?`