---
title:  The Origin of Paul’s Gospel
date:   06/07/2017
---

`The troublemakers in Galatia were claiming that Paul’s gospel was really driven by his desire to obtain the approval of others. What might Paul have done differently in his letter if he were merely seeking human approval? Consider Gal. 1:6–9, 11–24.`

Why did Paul not require Gentile converts to be circumcised? Paul’s opponents claimed it was because Paul wanted conversions at any cost. Maybe they thought that because Paul knew Gentiles would have reservations about circumcision, he didn’t require it. He was a people-pleaser! In response to such allegations, Paul points his opponents to the strong words he writes in Galatians 1:8, 9.

If all he wanted was approval, he could surely have answered otherwise.

`Why does Paul say it is impossible to be a follower of Christ while trying to please people?`

`After Paul’s statement in Galatians 1:11, 12 that he received his gospel and authority directly from God, how do his words in Galatians 1:13–24 make his point?`

Galatians 1:13–24 provide an autobiographical account of Paul’s situation before his conversion (Gal. 1:13, 14), at his conversion (Gal. 1:15, 16), and afterward (Gal. 1:16–24). Paul claims the circumstances that surrounded each of these events make it absolutely impossible for anyone to claim that he received his gospel from anyone but God. Paul was not going to sit by and allow anyone to disparage his message by questioning his calling. He knew what happened to him, he knew what he was called to teach, and he was going to do it, no matter the cost.

`How certain are you of your calling in Christ? How can you know for sure what God has called you to do? At the same time, even if you are sure of your calling, why must you learn to listen to the counsel of others?`