---
title:  God Saves Us From All Our Troubles
date:   20/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 139:1-18; Psalm 40:1-3; Psalm 17:7-9; 1 Corinthians 10:1-4; Psalm 114; Psalm 3:4.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Pray to the Lord, and he will hear you. He will save you from all your troubles” (Psalm 34:17, ERV).

The book of Psalms tells us many times that the Lord is King. He made the skies and the earth. He keeps everything going. This same powerful God is also our personal Savior. He wants to have a close relationship with His people.

The Lord is always with His people and with everything He made in heaven and on earth (Psalm 73:23, 25). “The Lord has set [put] his throne in heaven” (Psalm 103:19, ICB). He “rides on the clouds” (Psalm 68:4, ERV), the same as if the clouds were horses. “The Lord is close to everyone who prays to him, to all who truly [really mean it when they] pray to him” (Psalm 145:18, ICB). The Book of Psalms tells us that the Lord is the living God. He saves people who ask Him for help (Psalm 55:16-22). The Book of Psalms was written to the living God, who hears and answers prayers. That’s why the Book of Psalms means so much to its readers.

God invites us to have a close relationship with Him. What will our answer be to God’s invitation? We must want a life of faith in God with all our hearts. We must obey His commandments. God won’t accept anything less than our faith and obedience. The history of Israel shows us this important Bible truth.