---
title:  You Saw My Bones Grow Inside My Mother’s Body
date:   21/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 139:1-18. How does this poem show us that God is powerful (verses 1-6)? How does this poem show us that God’s Spirit is with us everywhere we go (verses 7-12)? What word pictures does this poem use to show us that God is good (verses 13-18)? Psalm 139 shows us that God is mighty and strong to save. What does this Bible truth teach us about God and His promises?`

Do you want to help someone but don’t know how? Or maybe someone tried to help you. But this person didn’t understand what you really needed. God knows everything we need. He knows everything that is happening in our lives right now. So, God always knows how best to help us. That’s why we can trust God’s promises to help and save us.

God knows everything about the poet who wrote Psalm 139. God sees the poet before he is born when he is inside his mother’s body. His mother’s body can’t hide him from God (Psalm 139:13, 15)! God knows when we do things (Psalm 139:2). God knows everything we think and feel (Psalm 139:2, 4). God also knows where we are and everything we do at all times (Psalm 139:3). God’s wonderful knowledge about us is part of His close relationship with His people. He knows everything about us because He made us. God takes very good care of us. His care for us shows us how much He knows about us.

Don’t be scared of God because He knows everything about you. Be happy that He knows everything and continues to love you. Run to the arms of Jesus and accept what He did for you at the cross. When we have faith in Jesus, God will save us with His mercy and accept us (Romans 3:5, 21).

Can anything separate us from God? Can the grave? Or can the night hide us from Him (Psalm 139:8, 11, 12)? The grave and the dark are not places where the Lord lives (Psalm 56:13). These word pictures show us an important Bible truth. God can go anywhere He wants in heaven or on earth. God is not part of the stars and skies, as some believe. He made them. As the One who made everything and keeps it going (Hebrews 1:3), God can go anywhere He wants.

God knows all about us. So, He can help us and make us new. This Bible truth fills the heart of the poet with trust and praise. The poet wants God to look into his heart and show him his sins. Then God can remove anything from the poet’s life that separates him from God.