---
title:  Trusting In God’s Care
date:   22/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 40:1-3; Psalm 50:15; Psalm 55:22; and Psalm 121. How does God show us each day that He cares for us?`

The Bible shows us that the Lord is the Living God who saves the ones who pray to Him for help. In Psalm 16, a poet says, “I always remember that the Lord is with me” (Psalm 16:8, ERV). So, the poet trusts God and asks Him for help (Psalm 7:1; Psalm 9:10). The Lord will hear the poet when he is in “deep trouble” and cries to God (Psalm 130:1, 2). God has the strength to change anything. He can solve every problem. So, the poet always has hope that God will save him.

Psalm 121 celebrates God’s strength. God can save us because He is strong. The poem promises us that God “will not let you fall. Your Protector [the One who watches over you] will not fall asleep” (Psalm 121:3, ERV). Because the Lord is Israel’s Protector, He is always ready to save His children (Psalm 121:3, 4).

“The Lord protects you [the same] as the shade protects you from the sun” (Psalm 121:5, 6, ICB). This word picture helps us remember “the tall cloud” in the Book of Exodus (Exodus 13:21, 22). The Lord used the tall cloud to lead His people in the desert to the Promised Land. In the same way, the Lord continues to lead His people to safety.

As we saw already in Psalm 121:5, the Lord protects and “watches over you” (NLV). The Lord is strong. He is ready to act to help His people (Psalm 74:11; Psalm 89:13). The Lord is close to His people and blesses them with His favor (Psalm 16:8; Psalm 109:31; Psalm 110:5).

In Psalm 121:6-8, we learn that God will protect His people from every danger. God will keep His children safe from all evil. “The sun” and “the moon” cannot hurt them (verse 6, ERV). God will keep His children safe when they travel from their homes and when they come back. These word pictures help us to understand that God cares for us very much. He always works hard to take care of us.

What do all these promises from Psalm 121 teach us about the faith of the poet who wrote it? The poet trusted in God’s loving care. So, we should trust God, too.

`What are some ways you can learn more about God’s care for you? Also, what can you do to allow God to work in you and for you?`