---
title:  A Shelter In Times Of Trouble
date:   23/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What does the poet do in times of trouble? Read Psalm 17:7-9; Psalm 31:1-3; and Psalm 91:2-7 for the answer.`

The poet suffers many troubles. During his hard times, the poet goes to the Lord for help. The Lord is the same as a safe home. The Lord will help us during every hard time. Trust is a choice. When we trust God, we choose to accept Him as Lord over our lives in every experience we have. If we can trust God during the hard times, we can trust Him at all times.

In Psalm 91, the poet tells us: “I will say about the Lord, ‘He is my place of safety. He is like [the same as] a fort [castle; a safe place] to me. He is my God. I trust in him’ ” (Psalm 91:2, NIrV). The poet’s past experience with God makes his faith strong now and for the future. The poet names God “the Most High God” and “the Mighty One” (Psalm 91:1, NIrV). The poet knows that no one is as strong or powerful as his God.

In Psalm 91, the poet also tells us about the peace and safety that God gives us. We can go to God for rest and “safety” (Psalm 91:1, ICB). He will protect us. The Lord is the same as a “fort [castle]” (Psalm 91:2, NIrV). He is the same as a “safe and strong place” (NLV) to hide. We can run to Him when we are in trouble. The Lord “will cover you like a bird spreading its wings over its babies” (Psalm 91:4, ERV). And “under His wings you will be safe” (Psalm 91:4, NLV). The Lord is also the same as “a strong wall” (Psalm 91:4, NLV). In Bible times, forts, mother birds, and strong walls were word pictures for safety or a safe place.

`Read Psalm 17:8 and Matthew 23:37. What word picture is used in these verses? What does this word picture teach us?`

The poet asks God to “hide me in the shadow of your wings” (Psalm 17:8, ERV; Psalm 57:1; Psalm 63:7). This word picture shows us a mother bird protecting her babies. This word picture helps us feel safe. The Bible compares God to an eagle who protects its young (Exodus 19:4) and to a hen who hides her chicks under her wings (Matthew 23:37).

`When bad things happen, we have a hard time believing that God is with us. But how do we know that He is there?`