---
title:  The One Who Protects And Saves Us
date:   24/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read 1 Corinthians 10:1-4. What does Paul say in these verses about the Exodus story? Paul uses the Exodus story to teach us a spiritual lesson. What is that lesson?`

`Read Psalm 114. What does this poem tell us about the time God made His people free from Egypt?`

Psalm 114 is a beautiful poem about how God helped His people escape from Egypt. In the Old and New Testaments, Bible writers used this experience as a word picture to show us how God saves His people. In 1 Corinthians 10:1-4, Paul sees the whole story in the Book of Exodus as a word picture for how Jesus Christ saves us from sin.

Psalm 114 also shows us that because God made everything, He controls nature. God’s control over nature was how He saved His people from Egypt. The sea, the Jordan River, the mountains, and the hills are word pictures for nature and human powers. These powers tried to stop Israel on their way to the Promised Land (Deuteronomy 1:44; Joshua 3:14-17). But God is in control of nature and all human powers.

The same is true today. God’s children in all times and in all places are on their way to the Promised Land in heaven. The way there is filled with danger. The Book of Psalms encourages us to look away from the danger of the hills to the One who made the earth (Psalm 121:1).

Where else do we see the message of Psalm 114? We see it in the story of Jesus at sea when He commands the storm to be still (Matthew 8:23-27). Later, Jesus tells the church to be brave because He won the fight against sin. Because Jesus won, He controls the earth (John 16:33).

The Lord is very powerful. This Bible truth should cause the whole earth to “shake” in front of the Lord (Psalm 114:7). The word “shake” is a word picture. How should we understand this word? Does “shake” mean that we should be afraid of God? Of course not! The word “shake” shows us we should worship the Lord. (Read Psalm 96:9 and Psalm 99:1 for some more examples that help explain this idea.) With God on our side, we don’t need to be afraid of anything!

`What spiritual dangers do we need to avoid? How can we trust in the Lord to save us?`