---
title:  Help From God’s Temple In Heaven
date:   25/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Where does our help come from? Read Psalm 3:4; Psalm 14:7; Psalm 20:1-3; Psalm 27:5; Psalm 36:8; Psalm 61:4; and Psalm 68:5, 35 for the answer.`

God’s temple is a place of safety and help. God’s temple gives shelter to people who are in trouble. From His temple, God helps the orphans and widows. He also gives strength to His people. We read, “God appeared from Zion, the city of perfect beauty” (Psalm 50:2, ERV). Zion is a word picture for God’s temple. God blesses His people from Zion (Psalm 84:4; Psalm 128:5; Psalm 134:3).

God’s temple is the safest place on earth. Why is God’s temple the safest place to be? Because God Himself is there. In the same way, the high hill named Zion is better than any other mountain because God Himself is there (Psalm 68:15, 16; Isaiah 2:2).

> <p></p>
> “Jesus, our high priest [spiritual leader], is able to [can] understand our weaknesses. When Jesus lived on earth, he was tempted [put to the test] in every way. He was tempted in the same ways we are tempted, but he never sinned. With Jesus as our high priest, we can feel free to come before God’s throne where there is grace [mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin]. There we receive [get] mercy and kindness [loving-favor] to help us when we need it” (Hebrews 4:15, 16, ERV).

`How do these verses say the same thing the Book of Psalms says about God’s temple?`

God’s temple is holy. The Book of Psalms teaches us that all people are sinners. We are not worthy of God’s favor or blessings. God saves us from sin because of His mercy (Psalm 143:2, 9-12). We can’t earn God’s forgiveness or mercy with our good behavior. We must confess our sins and accept God’s mercy first. Then we can ask God to save us. God’s temple shows us that only Jesus can save us.