---
title:  Additional thought
date:   26/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Night of Wrestling,” pages 195-203, in _Patriarchs and Prophets_. What can we learn from Jacob’s experience with the Angel about prayer and trusting in God?

The Book of Psalms makes our faith in God strong. God will never fail His people who trust Him with their lives. God is their “place” of safety. “God will do mighty things for the ones who trust in Him. The reason why some of His people are weak is because they trust their own wisdom. They don’t give the Lord a chance to help them. God will help His believing children in every emergency if they will trust Him fully and obey Him in faith.”—Ellen G. White, _Patriarchs and Prophets_, page 493, adapted.

Sometimes, we have trouble believing in the wonderful promises in the Book of Psalms. Our troubles and suffering cause us to doubt that God will help us. When times are hard, we must trust in God’s mercy.

Also, at times, some people don’t really understand God’s promises. We must not put God to the test as Satan did. Satan tried to get Jesus to believe that Psalm 91:11, 12 promised something that God did not promise at all. Jesus’ answer to Satan shows us that trusting in God is not the same thing as putting God to the test (Matthew 4:5-7). Trusting in God is faith. Putting God to the test is a sin. So, we must not ask God to do something that goes against His plan or against the Bible.

“How do we get success as Christians? Does our skill or education give us success? Or do we win success with our riches or because we are popular? The way we win is to go to God in faith. We must trust in God’s strength to help us. Then we will have success.”—Ellen G. White, _Patriarchs and Prophets_, page 203, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How do we trust God when things go wrong? Why do bad things happen to God’s people when we have so many wonderful promises about God’s protection?`

`How can we trust in God with all our hearts all the time? (Read Psalm 91:14; Psalm 143:8, 10; and Psalm 145:18-20.) What can cause us to lose faith? Why is trust in God in good times so important for learning to trust Him in bad times, too?`