---
title:  THE FIRST FAMILY
date:   04/10/2020
---

We do not have any information in the first few chapters of Genesis about family education in the earliest days of human history. But we do know that children learned what they needed to know from their families.

“The family was the center for education in Eden. Adam was ‘the son of God’ (Luke 3:38). Adam and Eve were children of God. They learned from their Father. Their school was a family school.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 33, adapted.

`Read Genesis 1–2; Genesis 3:1–15; 2 Corinthians 4:6; Luke 10:27; Galatians 3:11; and Revelation 22:12. No doubt Adam and Eve made these important rules a part of their children’s education. What do these verses teach?`

“God made the earth. At that time, God gave humans a plan for education. God wanted this plan to be an example for humans for the future too. So, God started a school in Eden. Eden was the home of our first parents. The school in Eden showed God’s important rules about education. The Garden of Eden itself was the schoolroom.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 20, adapted.

Christian education involves helping families and their members learn about Bible Teachings, worship, skills, friendship, sharing the Good News about Jesus, and serving God. Home is where you show family members God’s love and teach them about His promises. Home is where parents start to teach their children about Jesus. Parents show their children that Jesus is their Savior and Friend. Parents also read the Bible with their kids because it is God’s Word. Family is where parents show their children how to be close to their Father in heaven.

In Genesis 4:1–4, we see Cain and Abel bring their offerings to the Lord. We can be sure that Cain and Abel learned why these offerings are important to God’s saving plan. Of course, as the story shows, a good education does not always keep bad things from happening.

`What choices can you make in your home to make sure that you and your family continue to learn and practice the truth?`

_“The Garden of Eden itself was the schoolroom.”_
