---
title:  JESUS’ LIFE AS A CHILD
date:   05/10/2020
---

The Bible does not give us very much information about Jesus’ life as a child. Much about those years is a secret. But we do know something about His human parents, Joseph and Mary. What we learn about them can help explain to us Jesus’ early years and His education.

**What do the verses below teach us about Joseph and Mary? How do these verses help us to understand what Joseph and Mary did to educate Jesus?**

`Luke 1:26–38`

`Luke 1:46–55`

`Matthew 1:18–24`

In these verses we see that both Joseph and Mary are loyal Jews. They try hard to obey the laws of God. When the Lord’s angel visits them and tells them what will happen to them, Joseph and Mary follow God’s directions.

“Jesus is not educated in the Jewish schools. Jesus’ mother is His first human teacher. Jesus learned about God from her words and the Old Testament writings. Thousands of years ago, Jesus spoke these same words to Moses. Now Jesus learned God’s Word as He sat on His mother’s knee. As Jesus grew up, He did not go to the schools of the Jewish teachers. He did not need the education that they gave. God Himself was Jesus’ Teacher.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 70, adapted.

For sure, Joseph and Mary were good teachers. But as Luke 2:41–50 shows, Joseph and Mary did not understand many things about their Son. Jesus had knowledge and wisdom that came only from God.

`Read again the paragraph from Ellen G. White above. As a child, Jesus learned from His mother the words that He Himself told to Moses. Wow! It is hard for us to make a picture about that in our minds, right? What does this story about Jesus teach us about God’s wonderful love?`

_“Jesus’ mother is His first human teacher.”_
