---
title:  COMMUNICATION
date:   06/10/2020
---

Education is communication. The teacher is the one who has knowledge, wisdom, information, and facts to give to the student. Someone with a lot of knowledge must have the skill to communicate it to people. If a teacher cannot teach other people, then what good is anything that he or she knows?

Good teaching skills include more than communication. Teachers must build close connections with their students. “The best gift that a teacher can give his students is the gift of his friendship. We understand people only as we share in their sorrow and joy. This is true for men and women. We know this also is true for young people and children. So, we need to understand people. Then we can help them more.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 212, adapted.

What is this paragraph saying? Good teaching is not just about sharing information. Good teaching also includes improving the hearts and minds of students too. This is very important in the child’s first school: the family. A close connection must be built between the student and teacher.

Communication helps to build and grow our connections with people. What happens when Christians do not communicate with God? When they do not pray or read the Bible? Then their connection to God grows weak. Families need God’s help to grow strong in God.

`Read these verses: Psalm 37:7–9; Proverbs 10:31, 32; Proverbs 27:17; Ephesians 4:15; 1 John 3:18; Titus 3:1, 2; and James 4:11. What do these verses teach us about how to build strong families?`

Take time to communicate with family members. Good communication will help family members be closer to God and to each other. Communication will help your children to have success in life when they are adults. The important rules in these verses are not just for parents. These rules can help us to be better friends, workers, and family members.

`What we say is important. How we say it is just as important too. Why? Maybe you said something in the past to someone that was correct. But you used the wrong words and caused that person pain. What did you learn from this?`

_“The best gift that a teacher can give his students is the gift of his friendship.”_
