---
title:  GOD’S PLAN FOR PARENTS
date:   07/10/2020
---

**“Fathers, do not be too hard on your children so they will become angry. Teach them in their growing years with Christian teaching” (Ephesians 6:4, NLV).**

**“It is hard to find an excellent wife. She is worth more than rubies” (Proverbs 31:10, ICB).**

Parents have a big job. The father is the head of the family. The family is the nursery, or baby room, where children are raised for the school, the church, and the community. What if the father is weak or not responsible? Then the family, church, school, and community will suffer and become weak too. Fathers should show the fruit of the Spirit to family members. “The fruit that comes from having the Holy Spirit in our lives is: love, joy, peace, not giving up, being kind, being good, having faith, being gentle, and being the boss over our own desires [having self-control]” (Galatians 5:22, 23, NLV).

For sure, mothers have the most important job on earth. Mothers have a lot of power in the home and with their children’s lives. Mothers’ behavior will decide how their children grow up. Mothers also can make the home a happy place. Fathers should do everything they can do to help mothers teach their children.

`Read Ephesians 5:22, 23, 25, 26; 1 Corinthians 11:3; 2 Corinthians 6:14; Romans 13:13, 14; 2 Peter 1:5–7; and Philippians 4:8. What can fathers and mothers learn from these verses?`

Christian parents must be an example of Jesus and His church. Marriage is a Bible word picture that shows Jesus’ love for His church. What happens when parents do not love each other the same way that Jesus loves His church? Parents show a false picture of Jesus to their kids and to other people. God orders all Christian parents to teach their children carefully (read Deuteronomy 6:7). Parents must teach their kids to love God with all their hearts. Parents also must teach their kids to obey God and give their lives fully to Him.

In Deuteronomy 6:7, God tells His people to educate their kids about the wonderful things He does for them. So, the teaching we give our kids helps them to choose to serve Jesus. In the end, our kids must choose to serve God. Then they must answer to God for the choices they made.

_Marriage is a Bible word picture that shows Jesus’ love for His church._
