---
title:  Do Not Forget 
date:  08/10/2020
---

Before the children of Israel entered the Promised Land, Moses talked to them again. Moses told the Israelites about all the wonderful ways that God had led them in the past. Moses also warned God’s people again and again. He warned them not to forget the things God did for them. The rules that Moses wrote in Deuteronomy continue to be important for our lives today.

`Read Deuteronomy 6. What important rules do we learn about education in this chapter? What should be part of everything we teach to our children and to people who don’t know about God? What warnings do we see in these verses?`

God’s people taught their children about the wonderful things God did for them. This information was an important part of everything the Israelites taught their children. Do you see how clear Moses’ warning was too? He told the Israelites not to forget about God’s wonderful work.

Parents have an important job. They are the first ones who teach their kids about Bible truth. So, their lives must show that they know Bible truth. Parents also must spend enough time with their kids to help them learn Bible truth too.

“The child’s first teacher is the mother. There is a time in a child’s life when his mind grows fast and is open to new ideas. During this time, his education is, for the most part, under his mother’s control.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 275, adapted.

In the early years of a child’s life, parents must teach him or her about God’s love and promises. So, choose a time when you can meet with your child every day. Take time to teach him or her about God’s wisdom and promises. Give this gift of time and wisdom to your children. Then you will bless your family for many years in the future.

`Read this verse: “ ‘Be sure to teach them [these commands] to your children. Talk about these commands when you sit in your house and when you walk on the road. Talk about them when you lie down and when you get up’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:7, ERV). Explain what this verse means. How does it help us understand why it is important to teach ourselves and our children to always put the Lord first?`