---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   09/10/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Preparation,” pages 275–282 in Education; “Cooperation,” pages 283–286 in Education; “Discipline,” pages 287–297 in Education.

“Fathers and mothers are responsible for the child’s early and later training. Both parents must do all they can ahead of time to get ready to teach their children. Parents need to do this work as soon as possible. Before men and women become parents, they should learn about how the body develops. . . . They should understand how the mind develops too. They also need to learn how to train their children to choose between right and wrong.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 276, adapted.

“Fathers and mothers should learn how to work together. This work must start in the home. They must train their children. That is why they should always try to work together. They should give their hearts fully to God. Then they can ask Him for help. . . . Parents who train their children in the right way will not blame each other. They understand that they are both responsible for training their children. So, the parents feel they owe it to their children and the school to honor each other and to work together.”—Education, page 283, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1 Maybe you do not have children. But we all share our lives in some way with other people. We talk with other people. What have you learned from this week’s lesson that can help you get along better with people you see every day? How can you share Jesus with them?`

`2 We view education as a good thing. But when is education not good? Can you think of any examples? What can we learn from these bad examples that can help us?`

`3 God made everyone free to choose between right and wrong. This power is named free will. When children grow up, they will need to make their own decisions about the God they have been taught about all their young lives. Why must parents remember this important truth about free will?`

_Parents “should give their hearts fully to God. Then they can ask Him for help” in training their children._
