---
title:  The Church’s First Leaders
date:   21/07/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 6; Acts 7:48; Hebrews 5:11–14; Micah 6:1–16; Acts 7; Acts 8:4–25.   

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ The word of God was reaching more and more people. The group of followers in Jerusalem became larger and larger. Even a big group of Jewish priests [religious leaders] believed and obeyed” (Acts 6:7, ERV). 

MANY JEWS accepted Jesus at Pentecost. Pentecost was the time when God poured out the gift of His Holy Spirit on His church. God poured out His Spirit on the church a short time after Jesus went to heaven. Many Jews who became Christians at Pentecost were Greek-speaking Jews who moved to Jerusalem (Acts 2:5, 9–11). These Jews were different from the Jews living in Judea that Luke talks about in Acts 6:1. The Greek-speaking Jews did not know the Aramaic language. But Jews who grew up in Judea spoke Aramaic.

The Greek-speaking Jews were different from the Jews born in Judea in other ways too. The Greek-speaking Jews were born in foreign countries. So, they did not have a deep understanding of Jewish ways of life. They did not understand the many different meetings for worship that happened at the temple in Jerusalem. They also did not follow Moses’ law for Jews living in Israel.

But the Greek-speaking Jews were more willing than other Jews to accept God’s command to share the Good News with non-Jews. God used many of these Greek-speaking Jews to share the Good News with everyone on Earth.