---
title:  Seven Men Are Chosen To Serve
date:   22/07/2018
---

`Read Acts 6:1. As these verses show us, what do the Greek-speaking Jewish believers complain about?`

“They feel that the church leaders do not pay enough attention to the needs of the Greek widows. Every day the church gives help to members who need it. Any unfair action will not show God’s love. But Satan causes the Greek-speaking Jews to think the worst. So, the church leaders need to act fast to make sure that there is no more reason for anyone to feel unhappy with the way the church does things. If not, Satan will win in his plan to turn believers against each other.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 88, adapted.

The church leaders come up with an answer to the problem. They ask the Greek-speaking Jews to choose Seven men from their own group to be responsible for “ ‘getting food to people’ ” (Acts 6:2, ERV). This plan will let the leaders “ ‘use all our time to pray and to teach the word of God [the Bible]’ ” (Acts 6:4, ERV). The word written as “ ‘getting’ ” in Acts 6:2 (ERV) comes from the Greek word “diakoneo.” The word “ ‘teach’ ” in Acts 6:4 comes from the Greek word “diakonia.” These two words are spelled almost the same. But the words next to “diakoneo [getting]” and “diakonia [teach]” show us that these two Greek words have different meanings. For example, “ ‘food’ ” in Acts 6:2 shows us the meaning of “ ‘getting,’ ” while the wording “ ‘the word of God [the Bible]’ ” in Acts 6:4 shows us the meaning of “ ‘teach.’ ” These differences show us the things that are an important part of everyday life in the church. So, the leaders share Jesus’ teachings with people. And the Seven men are responsible for everyday church life. 

`Read Acts 6:2–6. How are the Seven men chosen and asked to serve?`

The Seven men are also named deacons. They are men filled with God’s Spirit. First, the church leaders pray for the deacons. Then the leaders put their hands on the Seven men and ask God to bless them. This act shows that the church accepts the men to work as deacons.

`Why is it important to live in peace and keep our thoughts busy with God’s work? How do we do that?`