---
title:  Stephen’s Work For God
date:   23/07/2018
---

Yesterday, we learned that the church chose Seven new leaders named deacons. The deacons work in the church and also witness to people outside of the church. They share the Good News with everyone who wants to know about it. Many new believers join the church (Acts 6:7). Then people from outside the church attack the church members. The book of Acts tells the story about what happens to a believer named Stephen during this time.

`Read Acts 6:8–15. What do these verses teach us about Stephen, his faith, and who he is? Also, what does Stephen preach about that makes his attackers so angry?`

Stephen is a Greek-speaking Jew. He shares the Good News in the Greek-speaking synagogues. Synagogues are Jewish “churches” or places of worship. There are many synagogues in the city of Jerusalem. Acts 6:9 talks about two of them. One synagogue has members who are Jews from the south. They come from Cyrene and Alexandria. The other synagogue is made up of Jews from the north. They come from Cilicia and Asia.

For sure, Jesus is the reason why people hurt Stephen. The attacks against Stephen show us that Stephen fully understands the Good News about Jesus. Stephen’s understanding goes deeper than the understanding of the Jewish believers from Judea. Stephen’s enemies accuse him of telling awful lies against Moses and God. In the enemies’ minds, that is the same things as attacking the law and the temple. Stephen scolds the Jewish leaders for loving the temple more than they love God (Acts 7:48). 

The Jewish believers put too much value on the temple and its worship plan (Acts 3:1; Acts 15:1, 5; Acts 21:17–24). They find it hard to give these things up (Galatians 5:2–4; Hebrews 5:11). Stephen and many other Greek-speaking Jews know that Jesus’ death means the end of the temple and its whole worship plan. 

`Should we hold on too tight to some of our beliefs about God? If we do hold too tight to our beliefs, what will happen when new light comes? How can we make sure we do not turn away from new truth in the same way that the Jewish leaders turned away from Jesus?`