---
title:  Stephen’s Trial In Front Of The Jews
date:   24/07/2018
---

`Read Acts 7:1–53. In these verses, what is Stephen saying to his attackers?`

Stephen is arrested because he says that the Jews do not need to follow the laws about animals used in worship anymore. Moses gave these laws to the Jews many years ago. The Jews respect these laws. They respect the worship plan Moses gave them and good behavior. What happens when anyone says one of these things is no longer important? Then the Jews believe that person is giving an insult to God. 

Stephen’s answer is the longest sermon in the book of Acts. Because Stephen’s sermon is long, we see that Stephen’s words are very important. At first, Stephen’s sermon is about Israel’s history. Stephen’s topic may make us think that this information is old news. But we need to understand that special messengers in Old Testament times often speak in this same way to God’s people when they stop following God. These special messengers often use the Old Testament Agreement between God and His people as an example, or model, for their own sermons. When that happens, these special messengers use the Hebrew word “rÎb.” This word means that God is taking His people to court because they broke God’s special Agreement with them.

Let us look at an example of the word “rÎb” in the Old Testament. The word “rib” is used three times in Micah 6:1, 2. Micah uses the Agreement between God and His people at Mount Sinai as a model for his own speech to God’s people. First, Micah asks Israel to remember all the wonderful things God did for His people (Micah 6:3–5). Next, Micah reminds Israel about what God asks them to do in His Agreement with them (Micah 6:6–12). Then, Micah warns Israel about the curses that will happen if they break God’s Agreement (Micah 6:13–16).

Micah’s sermon helps us understand why Stephen talks about Israel’s history in his speech. Angry Jews ask Stephen to explain his behavior. But Stephen does not try to argue with these Jews about his faith or complain that their lies against him are false. Stephen starts to speak with a loud and strong voice. The Old Testament messengers did the same when they warned Israel that God was upset with them for breaking His Agreement. Stephen wants to remind the Jews that they do not obey God or thank Him enough for all He does for them.