---
title:  Jesus In The Court In Heaven
date:   25/07/2018
---

A prophet is a name for a special messenger. Stephen becomes a prophet when he announces that God has a problem with Israel. Yesterday, we learned that God’s problem with Israel is a “legal action” that must be solved in court. This wording comes from the Hebrew word “rÎb.” Sadly, Stephen works a very short time as a prophet. Why so short? Because he tells Israel about God’s “rib,” or problem with them. Then the Jews get very angry with Stephen. They do not want to listen to God’s legal problem with them.  

`Read Acts 7:55, 56. In these verses, Stephen has a vision. What does Stephen’s vision mean?`

“Stephen showed the people that the special messages about a Savior in the Bible were about Jesus. Stephen said some things about the temple in Jerusalem that made the top Jewish religious leader angry. The top Jewish religious leader pretended to be very surprised and shocked by Stephen’s words. This leader tore his clothing to show his shock. When the leader tore his clothing, Stephen knew that the Jews would soon kill him. Stephen saw that the Jews turned away from his words. Stephen knew he was giving his last message. That is why he stopped his sermon in the middle of what he had to say.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 100, adapted. 

Stephen stands in front of the Jewish leaders. At the same time, Jesus stands in heaven’s sanctuary. Heaven’s sanctuary is the place where God judges His people and works to save them. Jesus stands next to God the Father to show that the trial happening on the earth between Stephen and the Jewish leaders is not the real trial. The real trial will happen in heaven between God and His enemies. God will judge the false teachers and leaders in Israel. 

Do you see that Stephen does not beg Israel to go back to God? That part is missing from Stephen’s sermon. But it is part of the other sermons before this time in the book of Acts (Acts 2:38; Acts 3:19; Acts 5:31). Why is this part missing? Because the Jews are no longer God’s special people. God asked the Jews to share the gift of being saved with all the people on Earth. But from now on, Jesus’ followers, both Jews and non-Jews, will go out of Jerusalem and share the Good News about being saved with everyone on Earth (Acts 1:8).