---
title:  Jesus’ Followers Share The Good News
date:   26/07/2018
---

The Jewish leaders win a big victory when they kill Stephen with stones. Stephen’s death starts many other attacks against Jesus’ followers in Jerusalem. Clearly, these attacks are started by the same group of people who kill Stephen. The leader of this group is named Saul. He does much to hurt the Christian church. 

The Christians escape the attacks by moving to other towns in Judea and Samaria. Everywhere they go, they preach the Good News that Jesus saves humans from sin. Then Jesus’ promise to His followers in Acts 1:8 comes true. They share the Good News everywhere in Judea and Samaria. 

`Read Acts 8:4–25. What lessons do we learn from the story in these verses?`

The Samaritans were “half-Israelites.” What does that mean? It means that the Samaritans believed in only One God. They accepted the first five books of Moses. They practiced circumcision. Circumcision means the extra skin at the end of the male sex organ is cut off. They waited for the Savior to come. But in the Jews’ eyes, the Samaritan religion was “spoiled” by some bad beliefs. So, in the eyes of the Jews, the Samaritans were not worthy of any of the promises that God gave Israel in His Agreement.

But when the Samaritans become Christians, the whole church in Jerusalem is shocked and surprised. So, the leaders of the church send Peter and John to find out if the story is true. God waits to pour out His Spirit on the Samaritans until Peter and John get there (Acts 8:14–17). Why does God do that? Maybe God wants to show the church leaders that they need to fully accept the Samaritans as members of the church (read Acts 11:1–18).

The church continues to grow after the Samaritans join. In Acts 8:27, we read about Philip and the Ethiopian. The Ethiopian came to Jerusalem to worship and now is going back home. He studies the Bible with Philip. Then the Ethiopian asks Philip to baptize him (Acts 8:38).

First the Samaritans, then the Ethiopian! The Good News is being taken to everyone on Earth, just as Jesus promised. But these two stories are just the start of what Jesus promised His followers in Acts 1. Soon, Jewish believers will travel everywhere on Earth and preach the Good News that Jesus saves us from our sins.