---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   27/07/2018
---

“The attacks against the church in Jerusalem helped Christians to share the Good News about Jesus everywhere on the earth. Jesus’ followers had much success in the work they did for God in Jerusalem. So, there was danger that they would stay there too long instead of obeying Jesus’ command to take the Good News to all people everywhere. Jesus’ followers forgot that the best way to fight against evil is to work very hard for God. Instead, Jesus’ followers began to think their most important work was protecting the church in Jerusalem from the attacks of Satan. So, Jesus’ followers did not teach new believers to take the Good News to people who had not heard it. Jesus’ followers were in danger of leading everyone in the church to be happy with what they already did. So, God allowed His church to be attacked. The attacks caused His people to move to many places far away from Jerusalem. Then these believers went everywhere and preached the word.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 105, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Read carefully the Ellen G. White quotation above. How is this quotation a warning for us as God’s people? How can we be sure that we are not protecting what we already have instead of sharing the Good News with everyone on the earth?`

`2.	By the time Jesus went up to heaven, there were hundreds of years of hate between the Jews and the Samaritans. Some Bible experts think that Philip was a Greek-speaking Jew who grew up in a foreign country before he came to Jerusalem. What can we learn from the story about how Philip witnessed to the Samaritans? As Seventh-day Adventists, we have feelings of like and dislike for different groups of people too. But what should the Cross teach us about how all people are the same in God’s eyes? What does Jesus’ death for everyone teach us about the true value of every person?`

`3.	Read about how Philip witnessed to the Ethiopian in Acts 8:27–30. How can we be open to more chances to share the Good News with other people?`