---
title:  Life and Death
date:   10/01/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Philippians 1:19, 20; 2 Corinthians 10:3–6; Philippians 1:21–24; Philippians 1:27.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Christ [Jesus] is everything that I live for. If I die, that will be even better for me” (Philippians 1:21, EASY).

People often say that death is a natural part of life. That’s a lie. Death and life are completely different. Death is the “enemy” of life. Death is no more “built” into life than wrecked car parts are built into a brand new car. Paul says that Jesus died to “destroy the Devil. It is the Devil who has power over death. Before, we were like [the same as] slaves all our lives because we were afraid of death. But now, Jesus’ death makes us free” (Hebrews 2:14, 15, EASY).

Paul was ready to die for Jesus. Paul knew what would happen in the future. For now, while he was in jail, the most important thing for Paul was to honor Jesus. Paul wanted to preach the Good News to as many people as possible. Maybe that’s one reason why Paul wrote so many letters in the Bible. Paul could reach more people and places with his letters than he could visit in his lifetime.

Life is short. We must work for God’s kingdom while we can. We understand that peace with other people is important. As church members, we must agree on our beliefs. When we agree about them, we will have peace in the church. As we shall see this week, Paul wrote to the Philippians about why our working together for peace in our church was so important to Jesus.