---
title:  Honoring Jesus More And More
date:   11/01/2026
---

`Read Philippians 1:19, 20. What does Paul expect will happen to him when he goes to court? What does he think is more important than getting out of jail?`

Paul compared his suffering to the experience of other Christians: “I have been in prison more often than they have. People have hit me with whips very many times. I have nearly died many times. At five different times, the Jewish leaders punished me with whips. Each time they hit me 39 times. Three times the Romans punished me with sticks. People threw stones at me to kill me once [one time]. Three times I have been on ships that broke in the sea. Once [one time] I was in the sea for a night and a day. I have traveled on many journeys. I have been in danger from rivers and also from robbers. I have been in danger from my own people and also from Gentiles [non-Jews]. I have been in danger in cities and also in the wilderness [desert]. I have been in danger on the sea. I have been in danger from false believers [false Christians]. I have worked very hard, and I have been in pain. Many times I have not slept. I have often been hungry and thirsty. Many times I have had no food. I have often been cold and without enough clothes” (2 Corinthians 11:23–27, EASY). Paul adds, “But also, every day I have trouble in my mind. I worry about the believers in all the churches” (2 Corinthians 11:28, EASY).

`How does Paul stay in touch with the churches he set up? How does Paul stay in touch with the people he won for Jesus? Read 1 Corinthians 4:14–16; 1 Thessalonians 2:10, 11; Galatians 4:19; and Philemon 10 for the answers.`

Jesus gave everything He had to save us. In the same way, Paul tells church members, “I am happy to give everything I have for you. I will even give myself for you” (2 Corinthians 12:15, ERV). The more we live as Jesus lived, the less some other people may love us. That’s why Paul warns us: “Every Christian who wants to live in a way that pleases God will have trouble from other people” (2 Timothy 3:12, EASY). But when we are willing to suffer for our faith, our lives show Bible truth in the most powerful way (compare Philippians 1:7). “Paul was patient and cheerful in jail. His courage and faith were a powerful sermon.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 464, adapted.