---
title:  To Die is a Blessing
date:   12/01/2026
---

As Christians, we are part of the worldwide war between good and evil. This war is happening all around us. The fight happens in us, too. We are part of this fight every day of our lives. We will be part of this fight until the day we die.

`Why do we fight this war? What weapons do we use in this fight? Read 2 Corinthians 10:3–6 for the answer.`

The most powerful spiritual weapons are ideas, both good and bad. Satan uses false ideas to trick people. Satan’s “weapons” also include mean and nasty words, breaking trust and promises, shame, fear, and many other bad things. Christians should not use any evil thing to hurt other people. We must use love, mercy, peace, a gentle heart, being patient and kind, and self-control. Our most powerful weapon is the Bible. We must use the Bible ­wisely. The Holy Spirit will help us (Ephesians 6:17, 18). Only God can cause someone to believe Bible truth. We are just His messengers. God uses us to help Him do His work.

`Read Philippians 1:21, 22. What do these verses mean? How does this Bible truth help us to better understand the worldwide war between God and Satan?`

The worldwide war is a spiritual fight between God and Satan. We live in a war of ideas and beliefs. Jesus won this fight for us at the cross. As long as we stay connected to Jesus, we can’t lose. Even if someone kills us, God will wake us up from the dead at the Second Coming. Paul accepted whatever happened to himself here on earth. Paul trusted his life to God. The Lord was Paul’s judge in the court in heaven. Paul trusted God to make a fair decision about his life. So, Paul didn’t worry about the future.

As Christians, we shouldn’t fight so much for what we believe that people “owe” us. We should fight for what is right. Also, we should obey God in everything. The only way we can win in the war against evil is to obey God. Of course, Jesus is our example. He obeyed God in everything. Paul will talk more about this topic in Philippians 2.

`How is the worldwide war between good and evil happening in your life right now? Jesus won the fight against evil. How does this Bible truth give you hope?`