---
title:  Trusting in God’s Promises
date:   13/01/2026
---

`Read Philippians 1:21–24. What does Paul mean when he says, “If I die, that will be even better for me” (Philippians 1:21, EASY)?`

Many people misunderstand Philippians 1:21–24. In these verses, Paul compares living with dying. The Christian lives for Jesus and may even die for Him. If we die for Jesus, that is “even better” for us. When people see that we are ready to die for Jesus, our death is a powerful sermon about our faith (Philippians 1:21).

So, Paul isn’t saying that he will go to heaven right away when he dies. When we die, we no longer know anything. The dead rest in the grave until Jesus wakes them up (read Ecclesiastes 9:5 and John 5:28, 29). That’s why after Lazarus died, Jesus said, “ ‘Our friend Lazarus is sleeping. But I will go there to wake him up’ ” (John 11:11, EASY).

What if people went to heaven right away when they died? Imagine in your mind how that would be for poor Lazarus: After four happy days in heaven, an angel comes to Lazarus with the “bad” news. “Sorry, Lazarus. But Jesus is asking you to come back to earth. You can’t stay here!”

This story may seem a little silly, right? But it helps us see why the idea is so wrong that the dead go to ­heaven when they die. Death is the same as a sleep without any dreams. Jesus will wake His followers up from this sleep at the Second Coming. Then Jesus will take them to heaven, ­along with His followers who are alive on the earth (1 Thessalonians 4:16, 17). Also, Paul says, “As for me, it is nearly time for me to die. My death will be like [the same as] a drink offering that they pour out to God. My life as God’s servant will end” (2 Timothy 4:6, EASY). “Then by God’s grace [mercy] I will rise [wake up] from the dead” (Philippians 3:11, NIrV). Then Jesus will take Paul, along with all God’s people, to the home God made for them in heaven (John 14:3; 1 Corinthians 2:9).

Paul was ready to die for Jesus. But he knew that his staying alive would be better for the Philippians than his death (Philippians 1:24). Is it better for us to live for Jesus or to die for Him? This question isn’t easy to answer. Paul said, “I can’t decide between the two” choices (Philippians 1:23, NIrV). Both choices “seem very good to me” (Philippians 1:23, EASY).