---
title:  Stand Strong Together in One Spirit
date:   14/01/2026
---

Jesus’ last prayer for His followers was about peace in the church. Jesus prayed: “ ‘Father, I want those [people] you have given me to be with me where I am. I want them to see my glory [honor], the glory you have given me. You gave it to me because you loved me before the world [planet earth] was created [made]’ ” (John 17:24, NIrV). Jesus also asked His Father, “ ‘Please keep them safe in your name. That is the powerful name that you gave to me. Then they can be united [joined together] in the same way that you and I are united’ ” (John 17:11, EASY). Jesus also talks about what will happen when His followers aren’t united. When we don’t agree, other people can use our ideas and behavior as a reason to not believe the Good News. Two times in His prayer in John 17, Jesus talks about our being united with Him and the Father. Jesus wants us to work together for peace with Them. “ ‘Then the world’s people [the people on this earth] will believe that you sent me’ ” (John 17:21, EASY). And “ ‘the world’s people will know that you sent me’ ” (John 17:23, EASY).

`Read Philippians 1:27. Compare this verse with John 17:17–19. What do both Jesus and Paul say we need to do to have peace in the church?`

In Philippians 1:27, the words written as “live . . . in a way that honors” come from the word “politeuomai” in the Greek language. These words mean to “live as a citizen [member]” of God’s kingdom. Jesus’ sermon in Matthew 5–7 tells us what it means to be children of God and members of God’s kingdom. God’s children have no pride in their hearts. They are gentle. They hunger and thirst for a holy life. They show mercy. Their hearts are clean and innocent. They make peace. They don’t fight or hurt other people. They love their enemies. They bless the people who curse them. They do good things for the people who hate them. In short, they follow Micah 6:8: “ ‘You must be fair to other people,’ God says. ‘You must want to be kind. And you must be careful to do what I show you’ ” (Micah 6:8, EASY).

So often fighting in the church comes from pride. “When pride and love for this earth fill our hearts, the spirit of Jesus leaves. Then our fighting weakens the church.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, pages 240, 241, adapted.