---
title:  A Church United And Without Fear
date:   15/01/2026
---

`Read Philippians 1:27–30. As a church, how does our working together in peace help us to share the Good News without any fear in our hearts?`

Satan’s plan is to separate us from each other. Then he can win the fight against us. Jesus said, “ ‘And if the people in one family start to fight against each other, they will destroy their own family’ ” (Mark 3:25, EASY). As God’s end-time church, our work together in peace helps us to announce the Good News about Jesus (Revelation 12:17; Revelation 14:6). Jesus’ prayer in John 17 teaches us that the Bible helps us to work together in peace (John 17:17, 19). As a church, we have a special message to share with everyone on earth in the end times. We need to work together to tell people about this special message from God. If we are united, we will have nothing to fear (Philippians 1:28). Satan is a loser. Jesus beat him at the cross. Even if we die for our faith, nothing can separate us from the love of God if we do what is right (Romans 8:36–39; 1 Peter 3:13). The devil can’t stop Bible truth.

`Read the following Bible verses: Matthew 10:38; Acts 14:22; Romans 8:17; and 2 Timothy 3:12. What important topic do all of these verses talk about?`

This earth is filled with sin. Life is hard, even for the “best” of us like Job. Job was a holy man. The Bible says that Job “was a good, honest man. He respected God and refused to do evil” (Job 1:1, ERV). But overnight, disaster hit Job and his family hard. Who hasn’t learned, as Job did, that life on this earth is hard? You never know when bad things will happen. Everyone on this earth will suffer in one way or another. In the end, better for us to suffer for Jesus than for anything else.

`What hope do we as Christians have in our sufferings?`