---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   16/01/2026
---

“At no other time in the church’s history have there been so many different gifts in the church. The church needed the gifts of the Holy Spirit to work together and keep peace in New Testament times. We need these same gifts so much more for our work together and peace today! The Bible clearly shows that God’s plan is to unite or join the members of His end-time church. The Bible promises us that church leaders shall agree with each other in the end times before Jesus comes back. Also, in the end times, God’s people who are wise will have understanding. Then God’s church will be joined together in peace, work, and faith. If we understand things correctly, then we will find ways to agree with each other. . . . We are waiting for this time of perfect peace to come into the church. We do not have this peace now. This time of peace in the church will happen in the future. So, the spiritual gifts that God gave us must continue to do their work until we are united.”—R. F. Cottrell, “Introduction,” in Ellen G. White, Early Writings, page 140, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`What needs to happen in the church today for the Holy Spirit to fill our hearts with a spirit of peace to help us work together? God gives His church warnings and advice in the writings of Ellen G. White. How does following this advice help us to work together for peace in the church?`

`Let’s say you have a friend who believes that Paul and other Christians who died are in heaven right now with Jesus. How would you explain the Bible teaching about death to this friend?`

`Why do people suffer in this life? How does the worldwide war between good and evil help us to understand the answer to this question? When we look to Jesus on the cross, we see the best example of God’s love for us. How does this example help us with our own suffering? Why, in the end, must we learn to trust God in the worst of times?`