---
title:  Cain And His Crime
date:  09/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 4:1, 2; Genesis 4:1–5; Hebrews 11:4; 1 John 3:12; Genesis 4:9–16; Genesis 4:17–24.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “You know that if you do what is right, I will accept you. But if you don’t, sin is ready to attack you. That sin will want to control you, but you must control it” (Genesis 4:7, ERV).

WHAT DO WE READ ABOUT IN GENESIS 4? We read mostly about people being born and then dying. All these births and deaths show us how the promises of God in Genesis 3 start to happen just as He says they will. If you compare Genesis 3 with Genesis 4, you will see many of the same ideas and words. Both chapters talk about sin (Genesis 3:6–8; compare with Genesis 4:8). Both chapters talk about curses from the ground (Genesis 3:17; compare with Genesis 4:11). We also read about people who are forced to leave their homes (Genesis 3:24; compare with Genesis 4:12, 16).

After Adam leaves Eden, he becomes a father. The birth of Cain fills Adam with hope. Eve believes Cain is the promised Savior (Genesis 3:15).

Then we learn about the awful crime of Cain. Later, we read about the crime of Lamech. We also see how the lives of humans grow shorter. We read about how evil fills the earth, too. All these things are part of the curse that God announced in Genesis 3.

Yes, many bad things happen in Genesis 4. But all hope for humans is not lost.