---
title:  Cain And Abel 
date:  10/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Genesis 4:1, 2. What do we learn from these verses about the births of these two brothers?`

What do we first read about after God sends Adam and Eve away from Eden? Adam and Eve have a son. Eve announces, “ ‘I have gotten the man that the Lord promised’ ” (Genesis 4:1, GW). Who is this promised man? He is the Savior who will save humans from sin (Genesis 3:15). The words written as “the Lord,” in Genesis 4:1, are connected closely to the words “a man.” So, what Eve is really saying is, “ ‘I have gotten a man, yes, the LORD Himself.’ ” The International Standard Version shows us this Bible truth: “ ‘I have given birth to a male child . . . the Lord” (Genesis 4:1, ISV).

Eve shows us by her words that she remembers the promise of God in Genesis 3:15. Eve believes she has given birth to her Savior, the LORD: “God tells Adam and Eve about the future Savior. When Adam and Eve first learn about the promise, they expect God to send the Savior right away. So, Adam and Eve are so happy when they have a baby boy. They hope their son will be the promised Savior.”—The Desire of Ages, page 31, adapted.

The name “Cain” comes from the Hebrew word “qanah.” In the Hebrew language, “qanah” means “to get.” “Qanah” shows us that Adam and Eve believed they got something precious and powerful from God. The name “Abel” in the Hebrew language is “Hebel.” “Hebel” can be written in English as “a puff of air” (Genesis 62:9, ERV) or “breath” (Psalm 144:4, NIrV). “Hebel” shows us something that we cannot hold on to or something that is not worth much. King Solomon uses this same word “hebel” again and again to show us something that is “a waste of time” (Ecclesiastes 1:2, ERV), is “no use,” (Ecclesiastes 1:2, NLV), and does not have “any meaning” (Ecclesiastes 1:2, NIrV). We do not want to make any wrong guesses about why Adam and Eve named their second son Abel. At the same time, the names show us that Adam and Eve believe that Cain, and not his brother, is the promised Savior.

`What things in life are “hebel”? That is, what things in this life are a waste of time? Why is the answer to this question so important for us to know?`