---
title:  The Two Offerings 
date:  11/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

For sure, Cain and Abel are very different from each other, as their names show us. We see how different they are in the jobs they do. “Abel became a shepherd, and Cain became a farmer” (Genesis 4:2, ERV). As a farmer, Cain needed a lot of strength to plant his crops. As a shepherd, Abel showed that he had a tender and loving heart for his flock.

Cain grew fruit. Abel took care of sheep. The jobs of these two brothers help us understand why they bring different gifts to God. These gifts also show us the different feelings in the heart of each brother. The gift of Cain shows us that he works hard to get the fruit he grows. Abel is careful to keep the sheep God gives him.

`Why does God accept the offering from Abel and reject the offering from Cain? For the answer, read Genesis 4:1–5 and Hebrews 11:4.`

“God cannot forgive sin without an offering of blood. Cain and Abel must show their faith in the blood of Jesus. Jesus will pay the price for their sins in the future. So, Cain and Abel must give God an offering from their flocks. They must bring God the sheep that were born first. Also, God commanded Cain and Abel to bring Him a thank offering. This offering must be the first ripe fruit from their crops.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 71, adapted.

Abel obeyed God. Abel brought both the plant and animal gifts that God asked for. But Cain did not. Cain brought only “some of the food that he grew from the ground” (Genesis 4:3, 4, ERV). Cain did not obey God. This story shows us two different teachings about how we are saved. The gift of Abel shows us that we are saved by the mercy of God. The gift of Cain shows us the false teaching that we can save ourselves by our own good behavior.

The gifts from Cain and Abel are word pictures that show us deep Bible truths. But we must remember that the gifts do not have any worth on their own. They show us the God who takes care of our personal needs and saves us.

`Read Micah 6:7 and Isaiah 1:11. What important rule do you see in these verses? How can we show this rule in our lives and in our worship?`