---
title:  The Crime 
date:  12/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`In Genesis 4:3–8, we read the sad story about Cain and Abel. What leads Cain to kill his brother? How does this crime happen? Read also 1 John 3:12 for the answer.`

God does not accept Cain or his gift. “So Cain became very angry, and his face was sad” (Genesis 4:5, NIrV). Cain is mad at both God and Abel. Cain gets mad at God for not accepting his gift. Cain feels that God is not fair.

Cain is mad at Abel and feels jealous of his brother, too. Why is Cain jealous? Because God shows favor to Abel. But God does not show His favor to Cain. So, Cain gets upset.

God asks Cain two questions (Genesis 4:6). Do you see that God does not accuse Cain? Does God ask Cain questions because He does not know the answers? Not at all! God wants Cain to look inside his heart and understand the reasons for his evil feelings. As we see from this story, the Lord always tries to save us, even when we fail Him. After God asks Cain two questions, God gives Cain some advice.

First, God tells Cain to “ ‘do what is right’ ” (Genesis 4:7, ERV). God wants Cain to change his behavior. God wants Cain to turn away from sin and the evil feelings in his heart. God promises to forgive Cain and accept him if he does the right thing. But Cain will be accepted only if He obeys God and not the evil wishes in his own heart.

God also warns Cain about what will happen to him if he does not change his behavior. “ ‘But if you don’t, sin is ready to attack you” (Genesis 4:7, ERV). God shows Cain that the real reason for his problem is the sin deep inside his heart. Again, God shows Cain that he must change.

Second, God tells Cain that he needs self-control. If Cain does not control himself, sin will attack him: “ ‘Sin will want to control you, but you must control it’ ” (Genesis 4:7, ERV). So, Cain must control his thoughts and feelings. James also warns us not to let sin control our hearts and minds: “You are tempted [when you feel a wish to do wrong] by the evil things you want. Your own desire [thoughts, feelings, and wishes] leads you away and traps you” (James 1:14, ERV). But we have hope. Jesus promises us forgiveness. He will help us win the war against the sin in our hearts, too (1 Corinthians 10:13).

`What does this sad story about Cain show us about how God made us free and will never force us to obey Him?`