---
title:  God Punishes Cain 
date:  13/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Genesis 4:9–16. God asks Cain, “ ‘Where is your brother Abel?’ ” (Genesis 4:9, ERV). Why does God ask Cain this question? What is the connection between the sin of Cain and his becoming a wanderer who will “ ‘always travel from place to place on the earth’ ” (Genesis 4:12, NLV)?

God asks Cain a question that helps us remember the question that God asks Adam after he sinned: “ ‘ Where are you?’ ” (Genesis 3:9, ERV). This question helps us see the connection between the sins of Adam and of Cain. So, we see that the sin of Cain happens because of the sin of Adam.

But Cain is different from Adam in many ways. Cain refuses to feel sorry for his sin. What is more, Cain lies to God. Adam did not do that. Sure, Adam blamed Eve. But Adam did not lie to God about what he did wrong. Cain not only lies to God. Cain also refuses to respect God. God does not waste any time at all doing His work as Judge. He asks Cain a third question, “ ‘What have you done?’ ” (Genesis 4:10, NIrV). God does not wait for an answer. God shows Cain that He knows everything. God says to Cain, “ ‘You killed your brother and the ground opened up to take his blood from your hands. Now his blood is shouting to me from the ground’ ” (Genesis 4:10, ERV). Of course, blood does not shout. This word picture helps us to see that God knows about the crime. He also will punish Cain for it.

`Cain says to God, “ ‘I will be hidden from Your face’ ” (Genesis 4:14, NLV). What does this verse show us?`

“Hidden from your face” is a word picture. It shows us the punishment that Cain will get. Cain will no longer “ ‘be near you [God] or have a home!’ ” (Genesis 4:14, ERV). Cain gets this punishment because he killed Abel. Now God will no longer be near him. So, Cain is afraid that someone will kill him. “Then the Lord put a mark [sign] on Cain to show that no one should kill him” (Genesis 4:15, ERV). What was this “mark”? We do not really know. Whatever this mark was, it shows us that God gives Cain mercy.

`What is “hidden” from the face of God? Nothing, right? He sees everything. At the same time, we can choose to turn away from Him, the same as Cain. What is the only way that we, as sinners, can avoid doing that?`