---
title:  Humans Become More And More Evil 
date:  14/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read about Cain and his future children in Genesis 4:17–24. How does the crime of Cain cause evil and sin to grow worse on the earth?`

Lamech is the grandson of Cain. Lamech kills a man, the same as Cain does. Then Lamech compares his crime with the crime of Cain. We learn important Bible truths about the way sin works when we compare these two crimes. Cain does not talk about his crime. But Lamech brags about his crime. Lamech makes a song about his sin (Genesis 4:23, 24), too. Cain asks God to show him mercy. But Lamech does not ask God for any mercy. God promises to pay back seven times anyone who hurts Cain. But Lamech brags that God will pay back 77 times anyone who hurts him (Genesis 4:24).

Let us compare Cain and Lamech some more. Cain has one wife (Genesis 4:17). But Lamech is the first man to marry more than one wife (Genesis 4:19). Lamech and his sins show us that the children of Cain grow more and more evil.

But not all hope is lost for humans. “Adam slept with his wife again. She gave birth to a son and named him Seth. She said, ‘God has given me another child. He will take the place of Abel, because Cain killed him’ ” (Genesis 4:25, NIrV). The name “Seth” comes from the Hebrew word “ ‘ashit.” This Hebrew word can be written as “ ‘I will make’ ” (Genesis 3:15, ERV). So, the name “Seth” shows us that God “made” another son to replace Abel. When God says “ ‘I will make’ ” in Genesis 3:15, He also shows us the future work that the Savior will do. So, we see the name “Seth” is a promise. It shows us that the Savior will come from the family line of Seth (Genesis 5:3).

In Genesis 6, we read about the “sons of God” and the “daughters of men” (Genesis 6:2, NLV). The “sons of God” show us the children from the family line of Seth. They are named the “sons of God” to show us that God chooses them to show His love and be His people (Genesis 5:1, 4). But the “daughters of men” (Genesis 6:1) show us people who do not follow God. Sad to say, the “sons of God” married the “daughters of men” (Genesis 6:2). These marriages show us that humans start to turn away from God.

`Read Genesis 6:1–5. These verses are a powerful warning against sin. Why must we do all that we can with the help of God to get rid of the sin in our lives?`