---
title:  Further Thought
date:  15/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible says that “Enoch walked with God” (Genesis 5:22, 24). This word picture shows us that Enoch had a close, personal friendship with God. Enoch spent time with God every day. This friendship between Enoch and God was so special. That is why “God took him” (Genesis 5:24, ERV). This verse does not support the idea that Enoch died and went to heaven. Noah walked with God (Genesis 6:9), too, right? But Noah died the same as any other human, including Adam and Methuselah. Ellen G. White writes about Enoch: “Enoch was a preacher. His sermons were about the forgiveness and mercy of God. Enoch told people the things that God showed him. Many people who respected God went to Enoch to learn Bible truth. Enoch prayed for these people, too. Enoch also worked in public. He shared the messages from God with everyone who wanted to hear what he had to say. Enoch not only helped the people from the family line of Seth. Enoch also went to the land of Cain. Cain ran away to this country after he left God. Enoch told the people there about the wonderful visions that God gave him. ‘Look, the Lord is coming with thousands and thousands of his holy angels to judge everyone. He will punish all those [people] who are against him for all the evil they have done in their lack [not showing enough] of respect for him. Yes, the Lord will punish all these sinners who don’t honor him. He will punish them for all the evil things they have said against him.’ Jude 1:14, 15 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 86, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why did Cain kill his brother? Maybe we have not killed anyone. But how can we be careful not to have the same feelings in our hearts that were in the heart of Cain?`

`The people who lived before the Flood lived for a very long time (Genesis 5). Compare their long lives to the lives of the men who lived after the Flood. How do we explain this change from long life to shorter life in humans? Modern science says that humans keep getting better and better. How does this change from longer to shorter lives in the Bible show us that these modern ideas from science are false?`