---
title: The Beginning
date: 28/09/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 1**

**The Beginning**

Starting our journey with Jesus through the eyes of John, we are immediately confronted with concepts and ideas that challenge us. We cannot read this book superficially. Through a careful examination of the book, we find that John’s rendition of the gospel story is full of metaphors. Metaphors bring our attention to a resemblance between two ideas that we may not otherwise connect. John carefully records the metaphors that Jesus used to share deeper insights about Himself.

In some passages, these representations are right on the surface. For example, John uses a series of metaphors based on Jesus’ words “I am.” Consider how the use of such a metaphor enhances the story in John 11:25.

At other times, this imagery is subtle and takes more thought to detect. Some such metaphors develop throughout the Gospel instead of beginning and ending in a single chapter or passage. (Such instances demonstrate the importance of re-reading the book, for as we do, we gain new insights and understanding.) John’s opening chapter includes an example of these overarching metaphors: Nathanael calls Jesus “the King of Israel” (John 1:49). This idea is developed throughout the book. In John 6, the people want to crown Him King of Israel (v. 15), and at the end of the Gospel, while on trial and during the crucifixion, Jesus is described as the “King of the Jews” (18:33, 39; 19:3, 19).

These later descriptions help us form a correct understanding of the metaphor. Jesus is not a king in a Roman sense. He is not someone who will exercise authority and power on His own behalf. Jesus is King in a way that Nathanael and the readers of the Gospel do not at first expect. Jesus represents a heavenly kingdom that they have little comprehension of.

John wasted no time in confronting us with his first metaphor. Jesus is the creative Word—the Word that was with God in the very beginning.

#### inScribe

Look through the Gospel of John and see how many metaphors you can find. Write them down. Explore what they might be communicating.

Using a Bible app, a Bible search software, or a concordance, write down as many verses in John as you can find that contain “I am” statements. What do they tell you about Jesus?

` `