---
title: Hearing the Overture
date: 29/09/2024
---

#### inGest

John 1:1–18 is reminiscent of a musical overture—the opening piece of an opera, ballet, or other theatre production. In some such productions, bits and pieces of the overture reappear in later songs and are made clearer with each return. In the same way, this prologue includes themes that are repeated throughout the Gospel. Read the passage aloud. Listen to the flow of words and thoughts. We will study the prologue in three stanzas: verses 1–8, 9–13, and 14–18. Each stanza focuses on the Word. The first eight verses describe the eternal Word and the human witness. Verses 9–13 summarize humanity’s response to the Word. The third stanza recounts the Word’s entrance into the world and the grace this brings.

When reading verse 1, modern readers often think of the Godhead—specifically the Son and the Father. However, John used language not restricted to one religious background. The term “the Word” (logos in Greek) would have been recognized by both Jewish and non-Jewish readers in John’s time. To the Greeks, logos was a principle that governed the universe. For Jews, logos was God’s creative plan. It also pointed to the creative Word that brought the world into existence.

If we think only of the Father and the Son, the depth of John’s message eludes us. Considering the metaphor of the Word helps us grasp just how uniqueness Christ is. John’s setting is “In the beginning,” but is this the beginning of this world (see Gen. 1:1) or the beginning of everything? If we could go back to that beginning, we would find the Word and God already there. The gospel begins before human history. Remembering this helps us comprehend the monumental impact the Word has when it interacts with the human condition.

John declared that the Word is God; it embodies all of God’s attributes. When we encounter the Word, we encounter God. This understanding should not be weakened by saying the Word had a divine origin or was simply a god. John emphasized that the Word was God even before Creation, and that the Word is God incarnate (John 1:18). He reminds us that the risen Christ is God, too (20:28, 29). As Ellen White said, “In the words, ‘I am the light of the world,’ Christ declared His oneness with God, and His relation to the whole human family” (The Desire of Ages [1898], 464).

As the first subsection concludes (John 1:4–8), John moves from describing Creation to presenting the cosmic background. Two opposing forces are introduced: light and darkness. They are personified, for there is an enemy operating in the shadows of the story just as God operates in the light. The struggle between light and darkness appears often within this Gospel book (i.e., 3:19–21; 8:12; 11:9, 10; 12:35, 46; 13:2, 27).

Memorize John 1:1–5. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.

`What phrases jump out at you?`

`What questions come to mind?`