---
title: The Word and Creation
date: 30/09/2024
---

#### inTerpret

The second and third stanzas (John 1:9–13, 14–18) focus on the interaction between the Word and the world. The second stanza summarizes the full spectrum of responses, from total rejection to acceptance that brings life. The true Light illuminates every heart, but the heart often encases itself in darkness. Nevertheless, the Light continues to shine, always taking the initiative, always seeking to dispel the darkness.

“Christ is the ‘Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.’ John 1:9. As through Christ every human being has life, so also through Him every soul receives some ray of divine light. Not only intellectual but spiritual power, a perception of right, a desire for goodness, exists in every heart” (Ellen G. White, Education [1903], 29). Because this Light shines in every heart, even those who have never heard Jesus’ name have an innate abhorrence of evil and a desire for something better. None can escape the Light. Even the evilest people in the world have to squelch a certain sense of right and wrong. In the same way, everyone comes in conflict with darkness. The Gospel presents stories of people rejecting or accepting the Light. The author of John hopes that readers will accept the illuminating, convicting power of the Light. “But against these principles there is struggling an antagonistic power.... There is in his nature a bent to evil, a force which, unaided, he cannot resist. To withstand this force... he can find help in but one power. That power is Christ. Co-operation with that power is man’s greatest need” (Ibid., 29).

The last stanza (John 1:14–18) is jarring. We see the eternal, creative Word become part of creation: “The Word became flesh and dwelt among us” (v. 14). In one concise, earth-shattering expression, John identified the beating heart of Christianity. The eternal Word fully entered humanity’s sphere. This is no longer a cosmic story alone; it is now an intimately human one. John conveyed this intimacy by using personal pronouns such as “dwelt among us,” “we beheld His glory,” and “we have all received” (vv. 14, 16, emphasis added), for in doing so, he described what he personally experienced of Jesus’ life. The Word brings glory, grace, and truth. The abundant fullness of His grace extends to everyone.

The expression “only begotten” (vv. 14, 18) often confuses readers. However, the Greek expression simply means unique. The same word is used for Isaac. He was not Abraham’s only son, but he was the son of promise (Heb. 11:17). (For other examples, read Luke 7:12; 8:42; 9:38.) The emphasis is not on begetting, as in procreation, but on uniqueness.

John 1:17 clearly states that the Creator, Jesus Christ, has entered creation. In verse 18, we first encounter the metaphor of Father and Son, portraying the intimacy between the Word and God. The Son being in the Father’s bosom illustrates tender familiarity. Here is the reason for the incarnation: so the Word can make God known in a world dark with misunderstanding. Only One who has been with the Father from eternity past can give this authoritative revelation.

#### Journal:

`How do you describe Jesus giving “light to every man” (John 1:9)?`

`Who are some people in John’s Gospel who received Jesus and thus became children of God?`

`Compare verses 10 and 11 to verses 12 and 13. Which group of people do you consider yourself to be part of?`