---
title: Interpreting the Word
date: 02/10/2024
---

#### inVite

As Christianity spread, discussions focusing on the dynamic between the Word and God arose. Did the Word have a beginning like everything else? Or is the Word actually eternal as implied in John 1:1? Various answers to these questions have been proposed. Sabellius, a theologian in the second century, argued that the Father, Son, and Spirit are simply three different manifestations of one singular being, God. It would be like if you wore three different costumes on three successive days—you look different, but you’re the same person underneath. This is called Modalism.

The Docetists argued that the Word didn’t really take a human form but only appeared to take one. He seemed human, but He really wasn’t. “How could God take a human form and suffer?” they asked.

The Adoptionists went to the opposite end of the spectrum. They proposed that Jesus was born as a human being, was adopted by God at His conception, and subsequently developed a divine nature.

A priest from Alexandria named Arius developed the doctrine of Arianism. He argued that the Word was formed by a special act of creation in the distant past. In Arius’ understanding, the Word had a beginning and only later began to act as God’s creative agent. He also believed that the Holy Spirit was separate from the Father and the Son, having been created by God and the Word. Several founders of the early Seventh-day Adventist Church were semi-Arian in their understanding of the Godhead. They believed Jesus had a beginning.

The more widely accepted perspective understands the Godhead to be comprise the Father, Son, and Spirit. It holds that all three are co-eternal, equal, and involved in both creation and redemption. The Seventh-day Adventist Church holds this view, having reached the conclusion through deep study of the Bible.

Since all these interpretations were based on various understandings of Scripture, how should we discern which is the truth? Here are some suggestions: First, we all need great humility. “As a people we are certainly in great danger... of considering our ideas, because long cherished, to be Bible doctrines and on every point infallible and measuring everyone by the rule of our interpretation of Bible truth. This is our danger, and this would be the greatest evil that could ever come to us as a people” (Ellen G. White, The Ellen G. White 1888 Materials [1987], 830).

Second, pull together the relevant passages of Scripture and look for an underlying harmony. Ask yourself what the writer is trying to communicate. Write down the central points the author is making. For example, re-read John 1:1–3. What stands out to you concerning Christ’s role and work?

Third, ask what interpretation makes the most sense for the majority of the verses. If one or two verses don’t seem to harmonize with the others, ask yourself why. Perhaps you are making assumptions. Possibly you are seeing an emphasis that isn’t there or are missing one that is.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 1 again and look for where Jesus is.

`What do we know about the history, identity, and nature of Jesus from the opening verses of John?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`