---
title: The Divinity of Christ
date: 03/10/2024
---

#### inSight

“In Christ is life, original, unborrowed, underived. ‘He that hath the Son hath life.’ 1 John 5:12. The divinity of Christ is the believer’s assurance of eternal life. ‘He that believeth in Me,’ said Jesus, ‘though he were dead, yet shall he live’ ” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [1898], 530).

“Christ is the pre-existent, self-existent Son of God.... In speaking of his pre-existence, Christ carries the mind back through dateless ages. He assures us that there never was a time when He was not in close fellowship with the eternal God. He to whose voice the Jews were then listening had been with God as one brought up with Him” (Ellen G. White, Evangelism [1946], 615).

“Do not make prominent those features of the message which are a condemnation of the customs and practices of the people, until they have an opportunity to know that we are believers in Christ, that we believe in His divinity and in His pre-existence” (Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers [1915], 405).

“He was equal with God, infinite and omnipotent.... He is the eternal, self-existent Son” (Ellen G. White, Evangelism [1946], 615).

“The Father and the Son each have a personality. Christ declared: ‘I and My Father are one.’ Yet it was the Son of God who came to the world in human form. Laying aside His royal robe and kingly crown, He clothed His divinity with humanity, that humanity through His infinite sacrifice might become partakers of the divine nature” (Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9 [1909], 68).

“Such representations as the following are made: ‘The Father is as the light invisible: the Son is as the light embodied; the Spirit is the light shed abroad.’ ‘The Father is like the dew, invisible vapor; the Son is like the dew gathered in beauteous form; the Spirit is like the dew fallen to the seat of life.’...

“All these spiritualistic representations are simply nothingness. They are imperfect, untrue.... The Father is all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and is invisible to mortal sight.

“The Son is all the fullness of the Godhead manifested....

“The Comforter that Christ promised to send... is the Spirit in all the fullness of the Godhead, making manifest the power of divine grace to all who receive and believe in Christ as a personal Saviour. There are three living persons of the heavenly trio; in the name of these three great powers—the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit—... these powers will co-operate with the obedient subjects of heaven in their efforts to live the new life in Christ” (Ellen G. White, Evangelism [1946], 614, 615).

#### Journal:

`After this week’s study, what are some personal applications you are convicted of in your life?`

`What are some practical applications you must make in your school, family, workplace, and church life?`

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`