---
title:  Tests Of Faith
date:  02/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Peter 4:12; 1 Peter 5:8; Romans 1:18; Jeremiah 9:7; 2 Corinthians 12:7.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “My friends, don’t be surprised at the painful things that you are now suffering, which are testing [showing; giving proof of] your faith. Don’t think that something strange is happening to you. But you should be happy that you are sharing in Christ’s sufferings. You will be happy and full of joy when Christ shows his glory [His shining beauty and His power as our King]” (1 Peter 4:12, 13, ERV).

SCIENTISTS IN LABS often mix different materials (liquids, solids, or gases) in a special pot or container. The container can be heated to high temperatures. When the container gets hot, the materials inside melt, spark, or burn bright, depending on what the scientists put in the container. This special pot or container is a word picture for a very difficult test. The container also is a word picture for the things in life that cause us to change or grow.

These word pictures help us understand something important that happens in our spiritual lives. This week, we will look at why we suffer and have difficult experiences. These experiences cause us to grow and change for the better. These experiences also help us to understand better what God does in our lives. Then, when we have another difficult experience in the future, we’ll know what to do.