---
title:  Surprises 
date:  03/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“My friends, don’t be surprised at the painful things that you are now suffering, which are testing [showing; giving proof of] your faith. Don’t think that something strange is happening to you” (1 Peter 4:12, ERV).

Surprises, painful surprises, can happen at any time in life. A car crashes into you on the road. Or you get a letter saying that you lost your job. Or a medical test gives you bad news that you didn’t expect. Or someone you loved and trusted turns against you, someone that you thought really loved you. As bad as our pain can be, surprise always makes the pain feel worse.

This week we’ll look at a few types of tests that should not cause us any surprise.

To start, let’s go back to 1 Peter 4:12. The word for “surprised” in the Greek language means “strange.” So, Peter is telling his readers that painful tests are part of the Christian experience. These tests are normal. As Christians, we can and should expect tough tests.

The words written as “painful things” (1 Peter 4:12, ERV) come from a word in the Greek language that means “a burning.” In other places in the Bible, this Greek word shows us “a hot oven.” The hot oven is a word picture for our experience of suffering for our faith.

`What is Peter telling us in 1 Peter 4:12–19?`

Many of us are surprised when we suffer, because we do not have the correct view about the Christian life. We know there are two sides: God’s and Satan’s. We often think that anything that makes us feel good must be from God. Anything that makes us feel bad must be from Satan. But life is not so simple or easy. We cannot use our feelings to decide what’s from God or what’s from Satan. Sometimes our walk with God can be difficult. We may see that people who follow Satan look happy and enjoy big rewards in life. Job sees this problem. That’s why Job asks God, “ ‘Why do evil people live long lives? Why do they grow old and successful [have success]?’ ” (Job 21:7, ERV).

`How can 1 Peter 4:12–19 help you explain to someone why he or she should not be surprised by painful tests?`