---
title:  The Suffering That Satan Causes
date:  04/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Keep awake! Watch at all times. The devil is working against you. He is walking around like a hungry lion with his mouth open. He is looking for someone to eat” (1 Peter 5:8, NLV).

Read the verse above. What’s the message for us in this verse? Ask yourself, “How much do I believe these words?” What things do you do in your life that show your answer?

Have you ever watched a hungry lion? A lion can catch and eat almost anything it wants. Peter says Satan behaves the same way. When we look around, we see things in life that show us just how much the devil wants to destroy us. Death and suffering are everywhere we look. Satan is hard at work trying to destroy everything that is good and holy. We cannot escape from seeing the evil work that Satan does.

`Read 1 Peter 5:8–11. How should Christians act when Satan tries to hunt and destroy everything holy and good?`

`What does God promise to do for people who are suffering? For the answer, read 1 Peter 5:10.`

In 1 Peter 5, Peter talks about how Satan attacks the Christian faith. As we already said, Satan fights us in many different ways. For sure, we must understand that Satan is a powerful enemy. But we must not feel discouraged. Remember, Jesus beat Satan in the desert and at the cross. So, we must stay connected to Jesus. When we do, Satan can’t beat us. Because of the cross, Jesus’ win is our win, too.

`Think about how Satan causes us to feel pain. Satan causes a lot of suffering on this earth. How can 1 Peter 5:8–11 help us to understand the reason for the suffering that happens to us on this earth?`