---
title:  When Our Sins Cause Us To Suffer
date:  05/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“God shows his anger from heaven against all the evil and wrong things that people do. Their evil lives hide the truth they have” (Romans 1:18, ERV).

Everything we do causes something good or bad to happen. If you stand in the hot sun with an ice cream cone, the ice cream will melt for sure. Sin is the same way. Sin always causes bad things to happen. God doesn’t sit in heaven inventing new ways to punish people who sin. So, we must not blame God. He doesn’t cause the bad things that happen when we sin. We do.

We make the problem worse because we think that we trick God when we sin. How? We think that we can sin and nothing bad will come from the experience. But sin makes us different, and God knows what we did. Paul shows us that sin will change our lives here on earth.

`In Romans 1:21–32, Paul talks about how people fall into sin and what happens when they sin. Read these verses carefully. Then in your own words explain what Paul says.`

In Romans 1:18, Paul talks about the bad things that happen because of sin. Paul says that God shows His anger. God lets humans suffer evil because of the bad choices they make. God does not always remove the pain from our lives that sin and our bad behavior cause. Many times, God lets us suffer so that we will understand that sin is deeply wrong and evil.

We’ve been talking about the sin that comes from breaking the Ten Commandments. But what happens when we break God’s health laws? If we hurt our bodies because we do not exercise, fail to eat good food, or work too much, then we also sin against God. These bad choices also cause things to happen that can become a test of suffering.

`In your own life, when did you suffer punishment right away because of a wrong choice? What lessons did you learn? What changes must you make so that you do not have this experience again?`