---
title:  Tests That Make Our Hearts Clean 
date:  06/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“So the Lord All-Powerful says, ‘A worker heats metal in a fire to test [to remove the parts that are not wanted in] it and see if it is pure [free from other metals]. I will test the people of Judah like [the same as] that. I have no other choice. My people have sinned’ ” (Jeremiah 9:7, ERV).

“Has God’s Spirit shown you a Bible verse that hurts you because it shows you the sin in your heart? Then you can be sure that there is something in you that God wants to hurt. God wants that part of you to die.”—Oswald Chambers, My Utmost for His Highest (Uhrichsville, OH: Barbour & Company, Inc., 1963), page 271, adapted.

`How do you understand both the Bible verse and the quotation above? How did you feel when God made you free from sin?`

`Read Jeremiah 9:7–16. In these verses, God says that He will “test [remove the parts that He does not want in the hearts of] the people of Judah” (Jeremiah 9:7, ERV). Look at Jeremiah 9:13, 14 again. Why did God give His people a test? How will God do this work in His people’s lives? For the answer, read Jeremiah 9:15, 16.`

When God removes sin from our lives, He often does things that we may not like. These things may cause us pain and suffering. That is why the experience can feel the same as a test. There are at least three reasons why the test may be a painful experience. (1) We feel pain when God allows things to happen in life that show us our sin. Jeremiah writes, “ ‘The fire is made very hot so the lead will burn away. But it is impossible [not possible] to make these people pure [free from sin]. Those [people] who are evil are not removed’ ” (Jeremiah 6:29, NIrV). This verse shows us that sometimes God needs to do something big to get our attention. This big thing can often make us feel pain at the time. (2) We feel pain when we feel sorry for our sins. (3) Sometimes change is painful. God may ask us to stop doing things that were a big part of our lives for a long time. We suffer when we stop a bad habit. This change can cause us pain too.

`How does God remove sin from your life today?`