---
title:  Tests That Help Us Grow 
date:  07/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“The things God showed me were so great [wonderful]. But to keep me from being too full of pride because of seeing these things, I have been given trouble in my body. It was sent from Satan to hurt me. It keeps me from being proud” (2 Corinthians 12:7, NLV).

Any gardener will tell you that cutting a plant down is different from trimming the dead parts off the plant. We cut down plants we don’t want anymore. We trim plants when we want them to grow. Both tasks involve a sharp knife. When we trim, we cut off the parts of the plant that may look important. Someone who doesn’t know much about gardening may think we are destroying the plant! Trimming plants is an excellent word picture for the work God does to help us grow stronger. Bruce Wilkinson writes, “Are you praying for God to bless you? Are you asking Him to make you the same as Jesus?

“If your answer is yes, then you are asking God to ‘trim’ away from your spiritual life the bad parts. Then you will grow better and stronger as a Christian, the same as a plant does when we cut off the dead leaves and branches.”—Secrets of the Vine (Sisters, OR: Multnomah Publishers, Inc., 2001), page 60, adapted.

People often wonder about Paul’s “trouble” (2 Corinthians 12:7, NLV). Some people think Paul’s enemies hurt him. Other people think Paul had trouble with speaking. But Ellen G. White tells us that Paul had a problem with his eyesight (read Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 6, page 1107).

`What do you think Paul meant when he said, “I have been given trouble in my body” (2 Corinthians 12:7, NLV)? Who gave this trouble to Paul? How did God use this trouble to bless Paul?`

Paul says he was given the trouble “to keep me from being too full of pride because of seeing these things” (2 Corinthians 12:7, NLV). God gave Paul this trouble to keep him from sinning in the future. God did not send this trouble to Paul to punish him for his past sin. Paul understood that he was weak. His heart was easily filled with pride. So, God gave Paul this “trouble” to help protect him against a heart filled with pride.