---
title:  Further Thought
date:  08/07/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Effectual Prayer,” in Signs of the Times, November 18, 1903; Ellen G. White Comments, page 1182, in The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 4; “God Permits Trial and Affliction to Purify Me,” page 92, in My Life Today.

“God knows everything that is in our hearts and minds. God knows who we are better than we know ourselves. God sees that some of us have precious gifts. If we use these gifts in the right way, then we can be a blessing to God in His work on earth. In His wisdom, God allows us to have difficult experiences to show us our weakness and sin. We may have hidden this sin from ourselves. God gives us a chance to correct these hidden problems and to make ourselves ready to be used by Him. Often God allows us to have awful experiences and times of suffering. These hard times help remove sin from our hearts.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 471, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`We suffer much doubt and fear when we sin. Often, we may ask, “Will I be close to God again? Will He accept me?” What Bible promises give you courage not to give up faith and hope during these difficult times? Read what Paul wrote in Romans 5:1–11. How can these verses help you give hope to someone who is suffering because of his or her past sins?`

`Maybe you know someone in a difficult time right now. Do you need to know what caused this person’s suffering before you help him? Explain your answer.`

`A Christian young man lived in South America. He had a difficult experience and suffered much. After the experience was over, the young man moved to Europe. Later, he told someone, “I left my dead body in South America.” What does this word picture mean? Why must we all leave our “dead selves” behind when we follow Jesus? How do hard times help us do that?`

`As a class, plan a trip to a hospital or somewhere that you can help, comfort, and cheer people who suffer.`