---
title:  Advocacy of the American Sentinel
date:   09/03/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 13**

**Advocacy of the _American Sentinel_**

In 1886, the Seventh-day Adventist Church launched a periodical called the American Sentinel (replaced by Liberty magazine in 1906) to counter the growing influence of the National Reform Association, which had been lobbying for an amendment to the U.S. Constitution that would establish Christianity as the national religion. Efforts to Christianize the nation’s founding documents had begun during the American Civil War (1861–1865) when a group of people interpreted the war as God’s judgment against the founding fathers of the nation for failing to acknowledge Jesus’ lordship over the United States. The proposed amendment read, “We the people of the United States, humbly acknowledging Almighty God as the source of all authority and power in civil government, the Lord Jesus Christ as the Ruler among the nations, and his revealed will as the supreme law of the land, in order to constitute a Christian government . . . do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America (Alonzo T. Jones, _The Two Republics_ [1892], 703).

The first lead editor of the American Sentinel, Joseph H. Waggoner, and his associates Ellet J. Waggoner and Alonzo T. Jones were relentless in their efforts to oppose and defeat the National Reform Association’s every move to nationalize Christianity. They not only wrote and published arguments for the separation of church and state but also traveled to places where rallies were being held and legislation was being introduced. They organized public events and distributed literature to educate citizens on the importance of protecting the wall between church and state.

Despite their efforts, an article from Ellen White published in 1889 reveals that the church showed a concerning lack of interest in the issue: “There have been surprising indifference and inactivity in this time of peril. Truth, present truth, is what the people need; and if the startling significance of the movements now in progress in regard to the religious amendments had been realized by our brethren in every church... they would not now be in such stupor and deathlike slumber” (_Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5_ [1889], 718). This chapter will explore the prophetic symbols that emphasize how important it is for us today to continue advocating for the separation of church and state.

### inScribe

Write out Revelation 13 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 11–15. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._