---
title:  Earth’s Final Superpower
date:   10/03/2024
---

### inGest

The visions Jesus gave to John in the book of Revelation reveal an end-time coalition of religion, politics, and economics that will unite to threaten God’s people. In a coming time of crisis, various institutions will band together to force God’s people to compromise. The prophecies promise that regardless of the extreme pressure and coercion, God will still have a group that remains loyal to Him through it all.

The beasts of Daniel and Revelation symbolize the nations of this world (Dan. 7:17, 23). The beast that rises from the earth in Revelation 13:11 represents this world’s final cultural and military superpower—the only nation that has the influence and power to spread and enforce a religious agenda on a global scale in the last days (vv. 12–17). This beast belongs to a lineup of creatures from Daniel and Revelation, each of which symbolizes a different nation (Dan. 7:17, 23). The nation represented by the beast from the land leads the whole world to join together in a certain religious agenda, which will spark the final conflict between good and evil immediately preceding Jesus’ return (Rev. 14:9–14).

Most of the beasts in Daniel and Revelation come from the sea (Dan. 7:2; Rev. 13:1), signifying that these nations develop in overpopulated and highly contested areas of the world (Rev. 17:15). In contrast, the beast of Revelation 13:11 arises from out of the earth. If the prophetic symbol of water represents a flood of peoples, nations, and languages, we can infer that the prophetic symbol of earth signifies the opposite—the wilderness. The Bible associates the wilderness with solitude (Prov. 21:19; Jer. 2:6). The New World, as North America was called, was quiet and peaceful, a literal wilderness compared to the fiercely contested land of the Old World (Europe). In fact, the average population density in what eventually became the United States was less than 10 percent of most countries in Europe, Asia, or Africa.

The beast from the earth appeared around the time the sea beast received its deadly wound (Rev. 13:3, 10), which occurred in 1798 when Napoleon’s general arrested and exiled Pope Pius VI. The United States was in its infancy that year, rising to power in an unmapped part of the world. No other current world power satisfies the biblical criteria of the earth beast given in verse 11.

It’s common for modern preachers to offer all kinds of explanations for the economic control, government overreach, and totalitarian state described in the mark of the beast prophecy (Rev. 13:15–17). These explanations usually include stark warnings about a secular state taking control and imposing secular ideologies on its citizens. However, most of these theorists take this passage out of context by disregarding the preceding verses. We cannot fully understand the mark of the beast crisis unless we also consider the events that ultimately lead the world to accept the mark. The previous verses describe a deeply religious movement and a false revival that sets the stage for the final tyranny. The mark of the beast is a religious dispute over the issue of worship. It’s more imperative than ever that believers study these prophecies prayerfully, with a humble attitude, using Scripture to interpret itself, lest we also become speculative and blind in our interpretations.

This was an incredible discovery for the founders of the Adventist movement. They realized that Miller and the others had missed this crucial detail. Rather than the earth being the sanctuary that needed to be cleansed, the Bible was instead pointing to the sanctuary in heaven. Leviticus 16 suddenly became an extremely important chapter for Adventists. By studying this chapter, students of biblical prophecy could get a glimpse into Jesus’ work in the heavenly sanctuary—work that began in 1844.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`How does the beast from the earth in Revelation 13:11–18 influence the world into false worship?`

`When studying the Bible for ourselves and listening to teachers how can we guard against forming false interpretations?`