---
title:  A Religious Movement
date:   11/03/2024
---

### inTerpret

The beast from the earth exercises the same authoritarian control as the beast from the sea (Rev. 13:11), which derives its authority from the dragon (v. 2). The two beasts and the dragon belong to the same family and all share the same spirit of the dragon, but there’s an increased appearance of Christianity with each successive power. The dragon is satanic in both character and appearance (Rev. 12:9), making it relatively simple to identify it as separate from God. The sea beast has the same character but disguises it with a God-like appearance, inserting itself in God’s place and redirecting worship to itself (Rev. 13:4–6). Finally, the earth beast is described as having the Christlike attributes of a lamb (v. 11), but still speaking as a dragon. The Christian appearance in this final beast will result in a deception that’s trickier to identify than anything else in this world’s history.

The beast from the earth that is like a lamb and yet speaks as a dragon leads the whole world to form an image of the sea beast (Rev. 13:13, 14). The prophetic symbols used here show that this is represents a very religious movement. Verse 13 tells of fire called from heaven, referencing the story of Elijah on Mount Carmel (1 Kings 18:38) with one crucial and shocking difference: it’s the wrong side that sees fire descend in answer to their prayers! It’s hard to overstate just how difficult it will be to tell who works for God and who doesn’t during this time. Pentecost is another helpful story of fire from heaven coming in answer to prayer (Acts 2:3). At Pentecost, the flames were a visible representation of the Holy Spirit descending upon the disciples. However, Revelation’s fire represents a false outpouring of the Holy Spirit where healers and revivalists who do not work in God’s name draw huge crowds. The whole world will be mesmerized by miracles and extraordinary supernatural events that will create a religious fervor reminiscent of the mob at Jesus’ trial.

When false miracles are worked and the false outpouring of the Holy Spirit occurs, the way has been prepared for the beast’s image to be formed. Unfortunately, professed Christians will be the primary contributors to this image, and the image’s progress will be best indicated by the changing tone of the messages coming from the leading pulpits in America. “When the leading churches of the United States, uniting upon such points of doctrine as are held by them in common, shall influence the state to enforce their decrees and to sustain their institutions, then Protestant America will have formed an image of the Roman hierarchy, and the infliction of civil penalties upon dissenters will inevitably result” (Ellen White, _The Great Controversy_ [1911], 445). Whenever church and state blend, there’s always competition on whether the state controls the church or the church controls the state. It’s possible that church and state will jostle for dominance in events leading up to the mark of the beast, but the leading churches will ultimately gain the upper hand. The final tyranny will be religious in nature, not secular.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can we know whether a spiritual revival is true or false?`