---
title:  Lamblike
date:   13/03/2024
---

### inVite

A symbolic lamb appears twice in Revelation 13. Verse 8 speaks of a group of people whose names are written in “the Book of Life of the Lamb” and who refuse to worship the beast. This scene describes those who stand with Jesus to the very end. All of us can belong to that group; all we need to do is follow the Lamb. Verse 11 says the earth beast has “two horns like a lamb,” but unlike horns from previous beasts (Rev. 13:1), these horns are not crowns, signifying that this nation will have neither king nor pope.

When the earth beast creates an image of the sea beast, directing the people’s worship to the joint church-state power the image represents, it yields its lamblike qualities and falls back into the dragon-like oppression of the Dark Ages. This explains why it is called an image (a reflection or replica) of the sea beast. Nobody can study biblical prophecy without also studying history. The Bible highlights certain chapters of human history and warns us that they will be repeated in the last days. The discussion of the beast’s image tells us that the history of the sea beast (the Roman Catholic Church) is one chapter of history that will be repeated. This beast represents the religious entity that dominated Europe for over one thousand years, under whose reign millions lost their families, property, and lives for offenses such as refusing to partake in the Catholic mass or owning, reading, or sharing even a portion of the Bible with others. The Spanish Inquisition was one of the many violent and cruel efforts of the state church to eliminate all dissenters. The crusades were another attempt to destroy those who did not conform. Understanding the danger of these histories repeating, Ellen White notes: “Let the principle once be established in the United States that the church may employ or control the power of the state; that religious observances may be enforced by secular laws; in short, that the authority of church and state is to dominate the conscience, and the triumph of Rome in this country is assured” (_The Great Controversy_ [1911], 581, emphasis added). The Bible predicts that earth’s final world power is going to reflect the religious oppression of the Dark Ages.

The last two centuries have witnessed some of humanity’s cruelest tyrannies, both religious and secular in nature. Millions of lives have been lost to genocide, ethnic “cleansing,” and intolerant dictators, among many other crimes. Christian believers have suffered some of the worst persecution from hostile atheistic regimes. But the time since Jesus’ death shows that religious tyranny can be just as deadly as secular tyranny, if not more so. It’s difficult for Christians to admit that some of the worst acts of oppression in human history have been committed by Christians toward Muslims, Christians toward Jews, and Christians toward other Christians, but the Bible did prophesy this failure. The prophecy regarding the beast’s image is another clear warning that although secular tyranny may have been the dominant form of persecution for the past two centuries, the world will ultimately relapse into the religious from experienced during the Dark Ages.

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`How can we have our name written in the Lamb’s Book of Life?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`