---
title:  Grieving and Opposing the Spirit
date:   11/03/2017
---

### Grieving and Opposing the Spirit

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON
Acts 7:51; Hebrews 10:24, 25; Ephesians 4:25–5:2; 1 Thessalonians 5:19–21; Mark 3:28, 29.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE</p>
> “Do not make God’s Holy Spirit sad. He marked you with a seal for the day when God will set you completely free” (Ephesians 4:30, NIrV).

THE HOLY SPIRIT has the special ability to lead us sinners to understand how sinful we really are. He also helps us to accept Jesus. The Spirit helps us to want God’s forgiveness. 

We are weak sinners. But we can still fight against the Holy Spirit’s power. The Spirit does not force Himself on us.

Sin is very charming and appealing. But it is also very misleading. It leads to death. This is because sin is completely opposed to God. Instead, God is pure and holy and good. And the Holy Spirit shows us God’s goodness. 

The Holy Spirit is against sin in every form. And He is grieved when we sin and do not want to give it up. The Holy Spirit is very powerful. But His positive influence can be ignored and put out in the same way that a fire can be put out with water. And we oppose the Spirit’s power when we continue in our sinful lives. The Gospels tell us that there is one sin that cannot be forgiven. That sin is blasphemy against the Spirit (Matthew 12:31, 32). 

This week we will study what the Bible has to say about not grieving, ignoring, or opposing the Holy Spirit. We also will study the sin that will not be forgiven.

##### DEFINITIONS

1. **grieving**—to cause someone to feel sad or unhappy. To cause someone to suffer. We cause the Holy Spirit to feel sorrow when we turn away from His desire to show us our sins and lead us to Christ.
2. **Gospels**—the first four books of the New Testament: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
3. **blasphemy**—something said or done that is disrespectful to God or to something holy.