---
title:  TURNING AGAINST THE HOLY SPIRIT
date:   12/03/2017
---

### TURNING AGAINST THE HOLY SPIRIT

(Acts 7:51)

`Read Acts 7:51. What warning was given here in Acts 7:51? How important is this warning to us today, as well?` 

There are sins against the Spirit that we do as individuals. And there are sins against the Spirit that groups of people do. We can see this truth when we read Acts 7:51. Stephen points out that his accusers are “stiffnecked.” They are as proud as the Israelites when they worshiped the golden calf (Exodus 33:3). Stephen says this because the Israelites refused to listen to what the Holy Spirit had to say to them through God’s prophets (special messengers). Some of the people that Stephen warned also would not listen. They turned against the Lord Jesus Christ. They would not follow Him. Instead, they made the act of worship take the place of obedience to Jesus’ Word (the Bible). 

God created humans. But we humans are fallen (sinful) and weak. So we must depend on God. But we still can fight against the work of the Holy Spirit. We can refuse the grace (mercy and forgiveness) of God. It is true that God is very powerful. But He does not force Himself on us. He respects our choices. 

Suppose God wanted to force us to obey Him. Then why did He not force Adam and Eve to obey in Eden? God could have avoided the whole crisis (danger) of sin by forcing Adam and Eve to obey. Instead, God created all of us to be free. He gave us the power to choose between good and evil and right and wrong. And He gave us the power to choose between life and death. What a holy and precious gift God gave us!

Everyone, then, is responsible for the choices that he or she makes. But we also have a responsibility to others. We should encourage one another to be faithful. We should encourage one another to obey God’s Word (the Bible). We should help one another to stay close to Jesus (Hebrews 10:24, 25). Today we turn against the Holy Spirit when we turn against the Word of God. We turn against the Spirit when we do not listen to what His prophets (special messengers) have to tell us.

It is so easy to judge and criticize the people of Israel in Bible times for all of their mistakes. But what about our own poor choices? How would you feel if those poor choices were made as public as the mistakes of the people of Israel were long ago?

`What are ways we can help others to love and to do good works? What is your responsibility to others to help them to do these things?`