---
title:  'GRIEVING THE HOLY SPIRIT: PART 1'
date:   13/03/2017
---

### GRIEVING THE HOLY SPIRIT: PART 1

(Ephesians 4:30)

`Read Ephesians 4:30. Paul uses a strong command in this verse to warn us not to “grieve the Holy Spirit” (NKJV). What does it mean to grieve the Holy Spirit?`

The Holy Spirit is a Person. He is not simply a divine force. That is why He can be grieved. But how do we grieve the Holy Spirit? Perhaps we should remember that one of the jobs of the Holy Spirit is to open our eyes to sin (John 16:8). In this way, He leads us to Jesus, who forgives our sins and makes us holy. After all, God’s Spirit is called “Holy.” And He is holy because He hates sin. But He feels joy when we obey God in all things. We make the Spirit happy when we think and speak what is pure and holy. But the Spirit is grieved when we do anything that goes against the life He has called us to lead. Any choice we make to cling to sin grieves Him. We also grieve the Spirit when we make sin seem not so bad as it really is. And grieving the Holy Spirit is a serious thing.

So, in Ephesians 4:30, Paul talks about grieving the Holy Spirit. But before this verse, Paul talks about getting rid of our old way of life. He talks about the way we should live now that we belong to Christ. In other words, we should start living a new life. We should live a life that is holy and good, just as God is. We should be patient and gentle with one another. We should work hard to be at peace with one another and to be one in the faith with other believers (Ephesians 4:2, 3). After all, we are “made new” by the Spirit (Ephesians 4:23). We now follow Christ. He is our new Head (Ephesians 4:15). So, we must no longer live as unbelievers do (Ephesians 4:17). Instead, we will live a life that pleases God (Ephesians 4:24–31). 

We must not allow any of the negative things mentioned in Ephesians 4 to find room in our hearts. Suppose these negative things show up in what we say and in what we do. Then the Spirit is sad and grieved. And grieving the Holy Spirit means rejecting Him. He does make us holy. He does change our lives. But He cannot change us when we want to keep on sinning. 

`The Holy Spirit cares about how we live. Read Ephesians 4:25–31. Now list the things we do that grieve the Holy Spirit. Why is the Holy Spirit grieved by these things?`