---
title:  'GRIEVING THE HOLY SPIRIT: PART 2'
date:   14/03/2017
---

### GRIEVING THE HOLY SPIRIT: PART 2 

(Ephesians 4:25–5:2)

The Holy Spirit can be grieved. His grief tells us that God cares about us and what we do. This is because God is affected by what we decide and how we live. 

`Read Ephesians 4:25–5:2. What do these verses tell us to do? How different would our lives be if we followed these commands?`

We make the Holy Spirit happy when we speak the truth in love. We make Him happy when we are angry about sin but do not sin in our anger. We make Him happy when we work with our own hands and use what we have made to do good for the poor. We make the Holy Spirit glad when we speak the truth and teach it to others. We make the Spirit glad when we share the good news of God’s mercy and forgiveness. And we make the Spirit glad when we are kind, tender with one another, and forgiving.

`Read Ephesians 4:3, 4, 15, 16, 32. What do these verses teach us about what it means to live in the Spirit? How does a Spirit-filled life show itself in the community with other believers?` 

Ephesians 4 talks about how Christians are supposed to treat one another. Paul says they are supposed to be one in the faith. He mentions this idea several times. Why? Here is the reason: we live the life of God with other believers (Ephesians 4:32). How we relate to one another in the church, then, is a very important part of not grieving the Spirit: “The Holy Spirit makes you one in every way. So try your best to remain as one” (Ephesians 4:3, NIrV). 

In other words, the church is a temple of the Holy Spirit (1 Corinthians 3:16, 17). And how we treat one another in the church really does matter to God. God’s Spirit cares deeply about how much we care about one another in Christ’s church.

`It is important to know the truth of the three angels’ messages in Revelation 14:6–12. But ask yourself this question, How do you treat others, especially those who are under you or those who can do nothing for you? That is, how do you treat those who have nothing to offer you in return?`