---
title:  QUENCHING (PUTTING OUT) THE HOLY SPIRIT
date:   15/03/2017
---

### QUENCHING (PUTTING OUT) THE HOLY SPIRIT 

(1 Thessalonians 5:19–21)

`Read 1 Thessalonians 5:19–21. In these verses, how can the Holy Spirit be quenched (put out)?`

The word quenching brings to mind the idea of a fire. “Quenching” comes from a Greek word that also is used in 1 Thessalonians 5:19 and in Ephesians 6:16. This word hints that there is something about the Holy Spirit that is like a fire that we can put out. We should remember that the Holy Spirit does two important things for us. One, He gives us knowledge of sin. Two, He gives us power to overcome sin. Both things are related to the process of being made holy. 

The Spirit speaks to us through the Word of God (the Bible). He tells us through the Word what we need to know so that we may live holy lives. Paul tells us one way we can avoid quenching the Spirit. He says we must not “treat prophecies [special messages from God] as if they [were not] important” (1 Thessalonians 5:20, NIrV). But he also instructs believers to test all prophecies to make sure they come from God (1 Thessalonians 5:21, NIrV). 

Unfortunately, not all spirits are peaceful and good. But the Bible is “God-breathed” (2 Timothy 3:16, NIV). This means that the Spirit led men to write it. The Bible is “a lamp to my feet and a light to my path” (Psalm 119:105, NKJV). So, the Bible is a measuring stick or ruler. It helps us to know if a prophecy is from God. Lamps in Bible times had burning wicks. These lamps shed light before the feet of those who walked in the night. The Bible tells us how to “keep in step with the Spirit” (Galatians 5:25, NIrV). We do that by surrendering ourselves to the teachings of the Word of God. And we do it by obeying the leading of the Holy Spirit. 

Many profess (claim) to believe that the Bible is the Word of God. But they interpret (explain) the Bible in ways that take away its authority. They rob the Bible of any real power in their lives. Also, there is another reason why we must not despise the Word of God or treat it without respect. For then we will put out the lamp that is given to us to lead us on our way. This lamp (the Bible) leads us to do good works. So we must not fail to live out its truths in our lives.

`Read 1 Thessalonians 4:7, 8. In these verses, what does it mean to be called “to be holy” (NIrV)? What parts of your life need “to be [made] holy”?`
