---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   17/03/2017
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

The fact that people ask if they have sinned the sin that cannot be forgiven shows that they most clearly have not sinned it. Suppose they had sinned the sin that cannot be forgiven. Then they would not be worrying about having done it. Their worry is all the proof they need that they truly are still open to the Spirit’s leading. What each person should do is claim the holy life of Jesus. 

Really, there is only one person God cannot forgive. That person is the one who again and again refuses to come to Jesus for forgiveness. “The sin of blasphemy against the Holy Spirit does not happen because of just one word or act. The sin against the Holy Spirit is a steady, ongoing choice over time to turn away from the truth and the proof for it.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 5, page 1093. “The sin against the Holy Ghost is not something that cannot be understood or explained. The sin against the Holy Ghost is the sin of refusing to answer, time after time, the invitation to repent [turn away from sin].”—Page 1093.

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`Suppose someone who came to you was afraid that he or she had sinned the sin that cannot be forgiven. What would you say to this person? What Bible verses would you use to help? Why is an understanding of salvation by faith alone so important for helping someone who feels he or she is hopelessly lost?` 

`We quench (put out) the Holy Spirit when we refuse to act or speak as He leads us to. How are we in danger of quenching the Holy Spirit? In what parts of our lives (if any) do we find ourselves refusing to be led by God? How can we learn to surrender those parts of our lives to Him instead?`

`Sometimes God allows certain terrible situations to come into our lives. Perhaps we do not like those situations. Or maybe we do not understand them. This experience happened to Job. Why can negative thoughts work against the leading of the Holy Spirit in our lives? How can we trust God more fully? And how can we give our lives completely to Him, even during the most difficult times?`

`Some are afraid of being “poisoned” by what they feel are evil influences in the church. So they pull away completely from the body of believers and do their own thing instead. What is wrong with that idea? What example does the Bible give us to follow instead?`