---
title:  Our Power for Good
date:   24/03/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
2 Timothy 3:1–9; Ezekiel 14:14; Philippians 4:4–13; Proverbs 3:5. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “People who do not believe are living all [everywhere] around you. They might say that you are doing wrong. So live good lives. Then they will see the good things you do, and they will give glory [praise] to God on the day when Christ [Jesus] comes again” (1 Peter 2:12, ICB). 

We are God’s servants. So, we should be good witnesses for Him. We have the power to change lives around us for the better. How do we do that? 

First, we must not cut ourselves off from people who do not know God.We mustnotliveseparatelives fromthem.Instead, we should show them a better way of living. Second, we must be wise managers of God’s gifts to us. God gives us power to live lives that are different from the lives of any other people on earth (2 Corinthians 6:17).Third, people should notice that our lives are different and even ask us about it. That is why the Bible says, “Always be ready to tell everyone who asks you why you believe as you do. Be gentle [kind] as you speak and show respect” (1 Peter 3:15, NLV). 

In this last lesson, we will look at the gifts God gives to good managers.We also will look at the power for good that God gives us to change people’s lives for the better. What is the secret to this success and power for good? “The secret is this: Christ [Jesus] in you brings hope of all the great [wonderful] things to come” (Colossians 1:27, NLV).