---
title:  Good managers are holy
date:   25/03/2018
---

What does it mean to be holy? This topic is very big. Part of this topic includes what it means to live a holy life. The Bible shows us that holy people live holy lives (Titus 1:1). God chooses these people to be His special people from all the people on the earth (Psalm 4:3). Being holy also means becoming the same as Jesus in what we do. It means having deep feelings of love and loyalty for God the Father (Titus 2:12). 

`Read 2 Timothy 3:1–9. What does Paul warn us about in these verses? What does his warning have to do with being a good manager of God’s gifts?` 

The book of Job tells us about Job’s good actions. It shows how a holy life is lived. Job suffered awful pain. But he stayed loyal to God. The book of Job also shows that Satan hates people who live holy lives. Satan hates people who stay loyal to God while they suffer pain. Job is a perfect example of a person who lived a holy life during hard times. Even God says that there was no one else who had the same faith or loyalty that Job had (Job 2:3). 

“There was a man who lived in the land of Uz. His name was Job. He was honest. He did what was right. He had respect for God and avoided evil” (Job 1:1, NIrV). This verse shows us that Job’s faith did not include empty words or acts of worship that had no meaning. Yes, honest praise to God and true worship were part of Job’s life (Job 1:5). But Job’s loyalty to God was shown in every part of his life. Being holy does not mean we are perfect. It only means we do our very best in everything we do in life. 

`Read Ezekiel 14:14. What does this verse tell us about the lives of these men? What do we see in their lives that should be seen in all of us?` 

Being good managers of God’s gifts means we must live holy lives. Loyal managers do not only act holy. They are also holy in their hearts.Their holy hearts are shown in how they live. Good managers also show their hearts are holy by how they take care of the gifts God gives them. Their faith is shown not only in what they do. Their faith also is shown in what they choose not to do.