---
title:  How to be happy with what you have
date:   26/03/2018
---

`Paul writes: “I am telling you this, but it is not because I need anything. I have learned to be satisfied [happy] with the things I have and with everything that happens” (Philippians 4:11). Where does Paul’s happiness come from? How can we have this happiness too?` 

Paul describes an evil group of people in a letter to Timothy. These men “think that serving God is a way to get rich” (1 Timothy 6:5, ICB). This verse is a perfect picture of many preachers on TV today. They make a lot of money from the people who watch their shows. These preachers tell their audience to be loyal to God by giving them money. Then those people who watch their shows will be rich too. These false preachers connect riches with loyalty to God. That false idea is one more way of making a love for riches more important than a love for God. 

The truth is that being holy has nothing to do with getting rich. Stop and think about what these preachers are really saying. What if being holy really did make a person rich? There are some very bad people on this earth who are also very rich. Are these bad people holy just because they have a lot of money? That idea is very crazy! Paul says, “You gain a lot when you live a godly [holy] life. But you must be happy with what you have” (1 Timothy 6:6, NIrV). Being happy with what you have is the best treasure you can have.God’s loving-favor is far more valuable than being rich. So, we should be happy with the “food and clothing” we have (1 Timothy 6:8, NLV). We may have a little or a lot. But we can get caught easily in the trap of wanting more and more. 

“We should be happy in every time and in every place. Being happy in this way is an important skill. It is one we should learn. . . . Christian happiness comes from having a sweet and quiet spirit that freely surrenders to God’s wisdom at every moment. . . .This spirit within us is the same as a box of precious perfume. It comforts a troubled heart. It is useful in times of suffering and hardship.”—Jeremiah Burroughs, The Rare [Not ordinary; very special] Jewel of Christian Contentment [Happiness] (London: printed by W. Bentley, 1651), pages 1, 3, adapted. 

`Read Romans 8:28; Hebrews 13:5; and Philippians 4:4–13. How do these verses teach us to be happy with what we have?`