---
title:  Trust
date:   27/03/2018
---

`Read Proverbs 3:5. What important message is there for us in this verse? Look carefully at the last part. What does it mean not to “depend on your own understanding” (NIrV)? Read also Isaiah 55:9;1 Corinthians 4:5;and 1 Corinthians 13:12).` 

Proverbs 3:5 are the words that every wise manager of God should live by. “Trust in the LORD with all your heart. Do not depend on your own understanding” (NIrV). 

Of course, that advice is easier to say than to follow. Often, we believe in God only with our minds. We believe in His love and care for us. But then we worry ourselves sick over hard times or some trouble. Sometimes the future can look very scary. Our worrying can cause us to think that bad things will happen. 

So then, how do we as managers learn to trust in God? We do it by having faith in God and obeying Him in everything we do now. Trust is something we do. It is an action of the mind. The more we trust in God, the more our trust will grow. We must live as loyal managers. Then other people will see our trust in God. This trust is the beginning of everything we do as managers. 

“Trust in the LORD with all your heart” (Proverbs 3:5, NIrV). The wording “your heart” always is used as a word picture in the Bible. It means that our decisions come from that part of us that can choose between following good or evil. These choices make us who we are (Matthew 22:37). We become who we are not only by our choices. But our reasons for doing things also make us who we are. 

It is easier to trust God with things that we cannot control. Then we have no choice but to trust in God. But real trust from the heart comes when we need to make a choice about something we can control. 

We can learn what it means to trust God with all our hearts by looking at the behavior of the apostles. Apostles were leaders. Jesus chose 12 apostles to lead His church after He went back to heaven. Ellen G. White says: “The apostles were as weak and helpless as anyone now doing God’s work. But these men put their whole trust in the Lord. They had riches. But it was riches of the mind and the soul. Everyone can have these riches too if they will put God first and last and best in everything.”—Gospel [The Good News] Workers, page 25, adapted.