---
title:  Our power to change people’s lives
date:   28/03/2018
---

“At one time you lived in darkness. Now you are living in the light that comes from the Lord” (Ephesians 5:8, NLV). In this verse, Paul says that a full change of heart is something other people can see. So, “we should live in the light, where God is” (1 John 1:7, ERV). Then our work as managers of God’s gifts will have the power to bring good and the light of God’s truth to other people. 

Jesus said, “ ‘I am the Light of the world [to everyone who lives on the earth]’ ” (John 8:12, NLV). We show the light of God by who we are and what we do every day. 

`Read Matthew 5:16; Titus 2:7; and 1 Peter 2:11, 12. As we see in these verses, how do we show others we are God’s managers? Also, how does that work bring praise to God? How does what we do have the power to change lives for the better?` 

True, a wise manager takes good care of what belongs to God. But a wise manager also does much more than that. Our families see our work as managers. Our neighbors see our work too. Angels and people who live far away on other planets see our work (1 Corinthians 4:9)! Our lives show the power for good that comes from following the rules of God’s kingdom. We also show this power for good in our jobs. We have the power to change the lives of people we work with. We also show Jesus to people when we are kind to them and make good choices. God blesses us when we do these things. 

How we do our jobs also shows our beliefs. We can show the people we work with that we wish to lead holy and good lives (Psalm 37:6). We do not try to hide the good we do at work (Luke 11:33). Instead, our power for good is seen by everyone (Matthew 5:14). But we must try every day to live this way at home and at work. Then we will have the power to change the minds and hearts of the people around us. 

“God trusts each person with some of His gifts. One day He will ask all of us to explain to Him what we did with the things He gave us. . . . Jesus has every reason to ask us to serve Him. So, we should hold no part of our lives back from Him.” —Ellen G. White, This Day With God, page 243, adapted. 

`What power for good do you show at work and home?`