---
title:  The words we want to hear
date:   29/03/2018
---

We are strangers on earth. Heaven is our home (Hebrews 11:13, 14). But we must live on this earth for now. Here, we must choose whom we will live for: God or Satan. “Anyone whois notwithme isagainst me.Anyonewho does not gather sheep with me scatters them” (Matthew 12:30, NIrV).Everyone will see the side we are on when Jesus comes back. 

`One day, Jesus will come back to this earth. Then Jesus will say something to the people who say they are His followers. As we see in Matthew 25:21 and Matthew 7:23, there are two different things Jesus could say. What are they? What does each set of words mean?` 

Jesus’ words, “ ‘You did well [a good job]’ ” (Matthew 25:21, ICB) are the best words a good manager ever will hear. To hear God say that He accepts our work as His managers will give us much joy. He will say these words to His followers who did their best to manage His belongings with the skills they had. The wise managers who hear these words from Jesus have known all along that being saved does not come from their own good works but from Jesus and what He did for us on the cross (read Romans 3:21; Romans 4:6). 

A loyal manager’s life shows his or her faith. Loyal managers will not try to make themselves right with God by their own works or good behavior (Matthew 7:21, 22). Matthew 7:23 shows it is wrong to do that. 

“Those who follow Jesus must give back to Him the gifts that belong to Him. They give these gifts back by using them for Jesus.Then they will be saving treasure in heaven. This treasure will be given to them when they hear the words, ‘ “You did well [a good job]. You are a good servant who can be trusted. You did well with small things. So I will let you care for much greater things. Come and share my happiness with me” ’ [Matthew 25:21, ICB].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 523, adapted. 

Being a wise manager of God’s gifts means living a life that puts God’s two greatest commandments first: (1) love for God and (2) love for our neighbors. This love should be the reason why we do good things. 

`How much does your life and your work as a manager of God’s gifts show your love for God and your love for other people?`