---
title:  Additional thought
date:   30/03/2018
---

“Jesus came to this earth to show God’s love. Jesus’ followers are to continue the work He began. Let us help each other and make each other strong. We find true happiness by doing good to other people. Man does not work against his own health and happiness by loving God and his fellow men. The more giving man is, the happier he is. Why? Because he is fully living God’s purpose for his life.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels [Advice] on Stewardship [Managing God’s property], pages 24, 25, adapted. 

“God gives us many gifts. We give back to the Lord from the things that belong to Him. This give and take is going on all the time in a healthy church. God gives light and His loving-favor to every true believer. The believer gives to other people from the gifts and work God gives to him to do. The more a believer gives, then the more God can give the believer His mercy and truth. God also gives the believer clearer light and more knowledge. The life of the church depends on this give and take. But what if someone takes but never gives? Then he will soon stop getting gifts from God. This person must share the truth with other people. Or he will lose his chance to get more. We must give to others the gifts of heaven. Then God will give us more gifts.”—Page 36, adapted. 

**Discussion questions** 

`1. How does trusting in the Lord give us happiness? As we see in 2 Corinthians 10:5, how do we trust God with all our hearts? It is very easy to say, “In everything God works for the good of those who love him” (Romans 8:28, ICB). But why is it so hard to believe that? We say we trust God. So, why are we afraid of the future?`

`2. Say in a few words what you think it means to be a good manager of God’s gifts. Why is being a good manager an important part of the Christian’s life?` 

`3. Why do the people in Matthew 7:21–23 say the things they say? What do their words show about who they really are? How can we make sure that we do not fall into the same trap of lying to ourselves?` 

`4 What power for good does your church have in your community?`