---
title:  Let’s Be Neighbors
date:  06/09/2025
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 25

**Let’s Be Neighbors**

Having a friend in the neighborhood is one of the most exciting things a young person can experience. Yes, parents and siblings are great, but nothing beats having a good friend—especially one who lives close enough that you can run down the street to their house.

Genuine friendships can’t be forced; they must be freely given and freely received. They seem to happen spontaneously. What’s amazing is that God wants to establish that same kind of relationship with us. However, He has a major problem: We often don’t see eye to eye with Him. We live life differently. Oftentimes, we get stuck on the fact that we can’t even see Him.

Despite these limitations, God has worked throughout history to become a part of our lives. After He displayed His power through the plagues and deliverance at the Red Sea, He revealed His core values and principles through the Ten Commandments. Even all of that was not enough for Him. He had established a covenant, or relationship, with the Israelites, and He wanted a way to maintain that relationship. To achieve this, God had Moses tell the people that those who were willing should donate materials for the construction of God’s house. Even in this initial command, God showed His goal in constructing His sanctuary: cultivating a relationship with His people. That’s why He didn’t require every Israelite to participate in giving. “From everyone who gives it willingly with his heart you shall take My offering” (Exod. 25:2). Giving was only for those whose hearts were motivated to give. God was looking to build a house next door, and He was going to rely on His relationship with the Israelites to provide the building materials.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 25:1–9 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 8 and 9. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `