---
title:  Revealing, Concealing, Restoring
date:  07/09/2025
---

#### inGest

God told Moses that the purpose of the sanctuary was so God could live with His people (Exod. 25:8). Why did He need a structure for His presence? God doesn’t need a house for protection from the outside world like we do, but He often interacts with us in contexts we can relate to. Perhaps by having a tent or dwelling place for God, His people would be able to experience His presence more concretely. This was especially important since they couldn’t physically see Him. Not seeing God is a challenge for humans since our primary sense is sight. Having a sanctuary as the physical location of God’s presence reminded the Israelites to trust in Him.

Besides being a place of revealing, a place where one could experience God’s presence, the sanctuary also functioned as a place of concealment. God’s power had been on full display when He spoke the Ten Commandments to the Israelites. They were so terrified by God’s voice that they asked Moses to be God’s spokesperson. The sanctuary was a place where God could be close while also veiling His power, so that humans could feel safe.

The sanctuary services symbolized God’s promise of forgiveness and restoration. Through these symbols, God provided a guarantee that He would forgive sin and reconcile penitent sinners to Himself. The sanctuary provides a blueprint that shows people in all generations how God removes sin.

Because the sanctuary must fulfill the grand purposes of revealing and concealing as well as restoring God’s relationship with His people, it was imperative that the Israelites build the structure to the highest standards. This structure was to be very special. After the Israelites had brought all their offerings, God appointed the builder who would lead the project: “See, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah. And I have filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship, to design artistic works, to work in gold, in silver, in bronze, in cutting jewels for setting, in carving wood, and to work in all manner of workmanship” (Exod. 31:2–5). God equipped Bezalel and many other artisans with wisdom and skill to complete this building project. The Spirit of God filled them with the ability to work with precious metals, jewelry, and fine clothing, and He moved on the people’s hearts so they would provide all the materials needed to accomplish this task.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 25. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Have you experienced God empowering you to do something very difficult or important? What was that like?`