---
title:  Home Sweet Home!
date:  08/09/2025
---

#### inTerpret

God’s house was a physical structure that included a roof, walls, and wooden supports to hold it all together. The innermost room of the sanctuary was called the Most Holy Place (Exod. 26:33). What made this room, which was a cube measuring ten cubits in each direction (width, length, and height), so holy? Its holiness came from what, or Who, resided in it. Behind the veil that separated the Holy Place from the Most Holy Place was a single piece of furniture: the ark of the covenant.

The most significant thing about this hidden room was that it was where God’s presence resided. Later in Jewish history, the word “Shekinah” was used to describe God’s presence over the ark of the covenant. This word refers to the dwelling of God. While the Egyptians had impressive temples with an inner “holy of holies” room—as did other Canaanite peoples—those temples housed idols representing the gods to which the temple was dedicated. In contrast, God’s sanctuary among the Israelites was not to have any idols or representations of their Deity. God was very clear about this, having made idols the focus of the second commandment (Exod. 20:4–6). The Israelite sanctuary had something much greater: the presence of God Himself. This would be where God met with His people. He was not far from them. When the Israelites came to worship at His house, He was physically there.

This emphasis on personal presence may be why God later commanded the Israelites to offer their sacrifices at one predetermined location only (Deut. 12:5–14). The sanctuary was not just a building to house a carved idol; it was the dwelling of the one true God, and that made it sacred. This helps us understand later incidents, like when Nadab and Abihu presumptuously offered “profane fire” in the sanctuary and were killed (Lev. 10:1, 2).

Though He dwelled in the people’s midst, God was not to be seen with human eyes. Later, when God shared with Moses how the services at the sanctuary should be conducted, the priests were strictly forbidden from entering the Most Holy Place lest they die (Lev. 16:2). Even the high priest could enter only once a year, and then only after following strict protocol including burning much incense on the golden altar to shroud the visible presence of God. God lived there, but viewing such raw, holy power is deadly to fallen man. In God’s presence there is overwhelming glory and power that make even the angels to veil their faces (see Isaiah 6:2).

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Have there been moments in your life when you especially felt the presence of God? What was it like? Dwell on those moments for a while. Talk with God about them.`