---
title:  God with Us
date:  10/09/2025
---

#### inVite

The Gospel of John presents perhaps the fullest expression of Jesus’ identity. John began his Gospel with the words, “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God” (1:1). The apostle John introduced the reader to Jesus in a unique way. He didn’t begin with a genealogy like Matthew or Luke to connect the reader to Jesus’ identity as the Son of Man. Rather, John focused on the divine Person of Christ.

The prophets had presented the Word of God throughout the Hebrew Scriptures. With the coming of Jesus, the Word became incarnate. God had come to live with humanity, not hidden behind a veil like in the sanctuary that Moses built. Rather, as we continue reading John’s introduction, we find that God is now out in the open. He came to personally interact with us. He became a man, one of us: “And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth” (1:14).

With this powerful statement, John pointed the reader from the story of Jesus back to the story of God’s desire to dwell with His people in the wilderness. John said Jesus became flesh and lived with us. God’s fullest plan had been placed out in the open. He wasn’t here just to be our neighbor but rather to become human. God became human, and He has pulled down the barriers between the Divine and the human.

In the book of Hebrews, Paul explained why God had to become human: only by becoming one of us could Jesus fully identify with us. “For both He who sanctifies and those who are being sanctified are all of one, for which reason He is not ashamed to call them brethren” (Heb. 2:11). By becoming human, Jesus became one with us. A few verses later, he added, “Therefore, in all things He had to be made like His brethren, that He might be a merciful and faithful High Priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For in that He Himself has suffered, being tempted, He is able to aid those who are tempted” (vv. 17, 18). God lowered Himself to our level to demonstrate His profound love in a way that we could understand. As One who suffered rejection, temptation, and sorrow firsthand, He truly understands the struggles we face.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 25 again and look for Jesus.`

`How is it meaningful to you that God became one of us?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`