---
title: Feeding the Whole Body
date: 18/02/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Deuteronomy 12:5–14**

**Feeding the Whole Body**

Even though the coconut is a very healthy and valued fruit, it can provide nutrition only if opened the right way. Some years ago a theology student at an Adventist University in northeast Brazil was talking to his friends under a tall coconut tree. He suddenly passed out after being hit in the head by a large falling coconut of more than three pounds (1.4 kilograms). The student recovered well, with only minor injuries.

The point is that despite how beneficial that coconut would be, it was unable to nurture the student’s body just by hitting his head. To provide nutrition, the coconut must enter the body in an appropriate, nontraumatic way, through the mouth, created and provided by our God. From there it is processed and distributed in a manner that provides nourishment and sometimes healing to the body. All limbs and organs are sustained and grow together by receiving the food that enters the body through the mouth.

God planned the church in such a way that it, Christ’s body, should be sustained in a similar way. He established only one place—His storehouse—by which tithes and regular offerings should be received. From that place, they are processed, and nourishment is distributed throughout the whole body, equally nurturing all of its parts, near and far.

God’s church may also be compared to an army, which is not maintained through the individual preferences of a citizen. Instead, nations tax their citizens and then apply the best logistical practices to keep the flow of distribution of the resources, equally supplying all the needs of an army. Should we consider our spiritual warfare any less important, and in lesser need of proper organization and planning than secular ones?

This week we will explore the narratives of two giving motivators and the spiritual consequences of the way they related to the storehouse principle. One aimed to bring revival and reformation while enforcing the practice of this principle. The other induced his people to apostasy by replacing God’s storehouse system with another system of his own creation.

#### inScribe

Write out Deuteronomy 12:5–14 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Deuteronomy 12:11. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `