---
title: 'Jeroboam: Storehouse Under Attack'
date: 19/02/2023
---

#### inGest

The accounts of Cain and Abel, and also of Abraham delivering the tithe to Melchizedek, are indications that since ancient times God’s children were instructed about how to worship Him with their tithe and offerings. Just before the children of Israel entered the Promised Land, however, more detailed instructions were provided about where to bring them (Deuteronomy 12; 14:22–29; 18:6–8).

God’s command about this subject was clear. The Israelites were told not to do according to what was right in their own eyes (Deut. 12:8, 13). Instead, they were instructed to “seek the place where the Lord your God chooses”—which was the temple and storehouse—and “there you shall take your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes” (vv. 5, 6, 11–13).

Through these instructions God planned that they would be regularly exposed to religious education provided by the Levites. They were chosen by God, among all tribes, to perform religious services, to keep the knowledge of God, and to be His messengers (Mal. 2:7), typifying Jesus’ ministry in the heavenly sanctuary (Hebrews 5; 8; 9). No other person apart from the Levites could be appointed for that service (Heb. 5:4).

Because the Levites would have exclusive dedication to this service, the Lord commanded the children of Israel to provide for them and for the temple service (e.g., Ezek. 44:28–30), but never giving directly to them. Through the storehouse system all resources were collected in a centralized place—God’s storehouse, or treasury—and from there allotted or distributed equitably, supporting all the needs of God’s work and workers (Mal. 3:7–10; 2 Chron. 31:5–20). No other place and no other god should receive the people’s offerings.

But Solomon challenged the storehouse system when he married foreign women (let alone being unequally yoked), built altars for their gods, and joined them in offering to idols. This specific action was identified as the cause for the division of the kingdom during the reign of his son Rehoboam, when the major part was given to Jeroboam, one of Solomon’s servants (see 1 Kings 11:1–13).

Jeroboam was a strong giving motivator, but to the wrong destination. God promised him, through Ahijah the prophet, that if he would walk in God’s ways and keep His statutes and commandments, he would be given “an enduring house” (v. 38). But after installed as king of the 10 northern tribes, he mistakenly feared personal and national loss if his people would comply with God’s storehouse system in going back to Jerusalem to offer sacrifices in the house of the Lord. Then “they will kill me and go back to Rehoboam king of Judah,” he dreaded (1 Kings 12:27).

Therefore, he directed the people to give at Bethel instead of Jerusalem, as established by God. Afraid of humanity instead of fearing God, he induced the people to accept a more convenient way to give. It was “too much” (v. 28) going up to Jerusalem, he said. In other words, “do less,” do locally!

As the Levites in his territory didn’t join him in his apostasy, Jeroboam “made priests from every class of people,” rejecting the Levites (v. 31). As a result, all the Levites located in Israel moved to Judah, and all God-fearing people kept going “to Jerusalem to sacrifice to the Lord God” (2 Chron. 11:14–16).

Solomon and Jeroboam’s accounts exemplify the fact that subtle or frontal attacks to the storehouse system will always lead to or are motivated by apostasy. Satan-originated and self-centered ideas are also behind those attacks. After all, Satan knows very well how vital this system is to God’s end-time strategy.

For more information about the storehouse principle, read “In Search of the Storehouse,” by Ed Reid, at https://stewardship.adventist.org/where-do-we-bring-our-tithe-in-search-of-the-storehouse.pdf.

` `