---
title: 'Hezekiah: Storehouse Restored'
date: 20/02/2023
---

#### inTerpret

In the many attempts to end the temple services at Jerusalem, Satan temporarily attained his goal during the reign of Ahaz (2 Chron. 28:24). God’s enemy knew that by destroying God’s house and the storehouse system, not only the sacrifices and other religious services would be suspended, but the Levites’ maintenance would be cut off. This would prevent their dedication to the study and teaching the law of God as well as the performance of religious services as determined by God. As it was then, if there is no continuous and faithful religious instruction today, apostasy is one step ahead.

Following Ahaz’s early death, his son Hezekiah became king, and started a successful “revival and reformation” initiative. As his first action, he wisely decided to restore the temple and God’s appointed offering system. In the first month of his reign, he reopened the doors of the house of the Lord and repaired them (2 Chron. 29:3). At the same time, he brought back the priests and Levites who, by the need of looking after their own subsistence, neglected their role as religious educators. He then challenged the Levites to sanctify themselves and the house of God, removing all rubbish from it, which they did promptly.

Since ancient times, public worship was always centered on presenting offerings to God, which would point to Jesus, God’s offering to humanity. Consequently, giving to God must be an important part of every true revival initiative, because “where your treasure is, there your heart will be also” (Matt. 6:21).

After consecrating the assembly through the burnt offering and the sin offering, the king challenged the people to present their own sacrifices and thank offerings. So many offerings were brought that the priests were too few to prepare them.

After the Passover revival celebrations were over, a reformation process began in the country. Hezekiah then restructured the storehouse system, organizing the Levites by divisions and ascribing everyone a work (2 Chronicles 31). He then motivated giving by his own example, appointing a portion of his possessions for the regular offerings (v. 3).

Instead of waiting for the assembly’s spontaneity, “he commanded the people who dwelt in Jerusalem to contribute support [or the portion due—margin] for the priests and the Levites, that they might devote themselves to the Law of the Lord” (v. 4), following God’s guidance given through Moses. The people brought their firstfruits, tithes, and offerings in such an abundance that they piled them up in heaps.

When the king questioned the priests and the Levites about the heaps, their answer was: “Since the people began to bring the offerings into the house of the Lord, we have had enough to eat and have plenty left, for the Lord has blessed His people; and what is left is this great abundance” (v. 10).

So “Hezekiah commanded them to prepare rooms in the house of the Lord. . . . Then they faithfully brought in the offerings, the tithes, and the dedicated things” (v. 11). In addition, he selected treasurers to oversee those rooms, and a different team to distribute the goods to all the Levites in a fair way, “to the great as well as the small” (v. 15), and to all their family members as well (see vv. 16–19).

Hezekiah’s account highlights the importance of at least two elements during every successful revival and reformation initiative: (1) proactive leadership motivating people to worship the Lord with their giving, and (2) compliance to the storehouse system. What Hezekiah did was “good and right and true before the Lord his God,” and that is why “he prospered” (vv. 20, 21). Every modern Hezekiah, who also wants to prosper, need to emulate his example.

` `