---
title: Jesus’ Commission and the Storehouse
date: 22/02/2023
---

#### inVite

Jesus’ last words to His disciples before ascending to heaven not only indicated how would they receive power, but also what they should do with that power, and where: “But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be witnesses to Me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth” (Acts 1:8).

Jesus defines here three important geographical segments that should be equally targeted by the church’s mission (and consequently be financially supported): (1) Jerusalem (local mission); (2) Judea and Samaria (regional mission); and (3) the ends of the world (global or international mission). Revelation 14:6 also indicates “every nation, tribe, tongue, and people” as the recipients of the “everlasting gospel.”

This seems to be an impossible task unless we humble ourselves and put all personal and financial resources together. By putting aside suspicion, thoughts of supremacy, conceit, pride, arrogance, and selfishness, we allow Jesus to work through the collective of His body, the church.

In the context of Acts 1:8, the condition for receiving the Holy Spirit was clear: they must be together (vv. 4, 6). They complied with this condition by being united in their plans, financial resources, and service to others (Acts 2:44, 45; 4:32, 34–37; 5:1–11). This condition has not changed.

The storehouse system is Jesus’ answer to the worldwide missionary challenge faced by the church. Two elements, among others, are critically tied together under this system: (1) bringing tithes and regular offerings to a common place (Deut. 12:5–13; Mal. 3:8–10); and (2) a fair distribution of those funds (2 Chron. 31:15–21; Neh. 13:10–13). If we obey Jesus’ commissions of Acts 1:8 and Revelation 14:6, this distribution must equally support the three segments mentioned by Him: local, regional, and international.

How does it work? Every time you worship the Lord with your tithe, it is sent to the storehouse, considered by the Adventist Church as being the local conference. United with the tithes of others, it is automatically distributed in an equitable way, according to a voted formula, used exclusively to support authorized local, regional, and international ministers, missionaries, and their support teams.

Some may wonder why we should give regular offerings in addition to the tithe. First, the Bible tells us that regular offerings are as expected by God to be brought to the storehouse as is the tithe (e.g., Deuteronomy 12; Mal. 3:8–10). Also, as tithe is a restricted fund (which can be used only as described above), regular offerings provide for all other local, regional, and international missionary expenses.

Following Jesus’ missionary commission of Acts 1:8, the Adventist Church voted in 2002 the Combined Offering Plan as the offering plan suggested and promoted by the General Conference. Among other things, it encourages regular giving and adherence to the storehouse system.

This plan suggests that fifty to sixty percent of all regular and loose offerings (all weeks) should always be designated to support the local church (local mission); twenty to thirty percent should support conference, union, and division missionary advancement (regional mission); and twenty percent should be designated to the World Budget, or the World Missionary Fund (international mission). This distribution covers in an equitable way all worldwide authorized missionary projects and initiatives!

Where this plan is practiced (currently in eleven world divisions/administrative regions, covering more than ninety percent of the global Adventist population), all loose or unassigned offerings will always be automatically distributed according to the above formula.

Irrespective of where you live, you are always free to decide about the destination of your offering. But every time you distribute your regular offerings according to the Combined Offering Plan’s suggestion (as above), you are uniting with brothers and sisters from around the world who, like you, want to follow Jesus’ commission and reach all the world with the message of His soon coming.

**Meditate on Deuteronomy 12:5–14 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`Which offering is the most important for the accomplishment of Jesus’ missionary strategy?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`