---
title:  Joy 
date:  20/06/2021
---

**We write these things to you so that you can be full of joy with us” (1 John 1:4, ERV).**

Look at this verse from John. In a few simple words, John tells us about one of the most important blessings we have as Christians: joy.

As Christians, we are told faith is not feeling. That is true. At the same time, we are human because we feel. So, we cannot behave as if we have no feelings. We need to understand our feelings and respect them. We need to control them as much as possible too. But if we refuse our feelings, then we refuse to be human. As 1 John 1:4 says, we should have feelings. Our feelings should be strong too.

`Read the verses that come before 1 John 1:4. These verses help explain why John says what he says in verse 4. What is John writing about? Why does he hope this will make the Christians feel full of joy? Why should the words of John give the Christians joy?`

John is one of the 12 followers of Jesus. John was with Jesus almost from the time Jesus first started to work. For 3½ years, John saw some of the most surprising things Jesus did. John was at the Cross. John was at Gethsemane too. John saw many things happen in the life of Jesus. So, John has the experience to talk about Jesus.

Do you see that John does not talk about himself? John talks about the things Jesus did for His followers. Why did Jesus do these things? So that His followers now can have fellowship with each other and with God Himself. Jesus made it possible for us to enter into a close friendship with God. Part of this friendship is joy. John wants the Christians to know that everything they learned about Jesus is correct. John saw Jesus. John touched and heard Jesus too. So, the Christians John writes to can enter into a joyful friendship with their Father in heaven. God the Father loves them. God gave Himself to them. God did this by giving them Jesus.

`In a way, John is telling his own story about Jesus. What is your own story about your friendship with Jesus? How can you help someone feel more joy in the Lord, as John tried to do?`