---
title:  Free Of Guilt 
date:  21/06/2021
---

**So now anyone who is in Christ Jesus is not judged guilty” (Romans 8:1, ERV).**

We all are guilty. We all have done things we feel bad about. We have done things we wish can change but cannot.

Thanks to Jesus and His blood, no one needs to feel guilty for the past anymore. Romans 8:1 shows us that God will not punish us for our sins that He has forgiven. Our Judge in heaven does not judge us as guilty. God looks at us as if we did not do those things we feel guilty about.

`Read John 5:24; Romans 3:24, 25; 2 Corinthians 5:21. How do these verses help us understand Romans 8:1?`

One of the most powerful promises of the new agreement is that we no longer need to live in fear of punishment for our past sins. We no longer need to feel guilty. Why? Because we choose to enter into the new agreement with God. We choose to live by faith. We choose to feel sorry for our sins. We turn away from sin with the help of the Holy Spirit. We choose to obey God. Because of these choices, we can live free from guilt. The blood of the agreement shows us that we can have this freedom.

Sometimes Satan whispers to us that we are evil and bad. He tells us that God will never accept us because we are full of sin. What can we do to shut Satan up? We can do the same thing Jesus did when Satan tried to get Him to sin in the desert. We can say Bible verses. One of the best verses of all is Romans 8:1. Romans 8:1 does not mean that sin will no longer be a problem in our lives. Romans 8:1 simply shows us that we no longer need to live in fear of our past sin. Jesus has forgiven it. Jesus paid the price of our lawbreaking for us. Now Jesus stands in front of God. Jesus offers God the gift of His blood for us. Jesus also offers God His perfect obedience for us.

`The Lord forgives you for your past sins because you are sorry for your sins and turned away from them. What does this Bible truth mean to you? How has this teaching changed your life? How does it help you forgive other people who sinned against you? How should this Bible truth help you get along better with other people too?`