---
title:  The New Agreement And A New Heart 
date:  22/06/2021
---

**And I ask [pray] that Christ [Jesus] may live in your hearts because you believe in him. I ask that you may live and grow in love. I ask that God will give you power [understanding] to know how wide and long and high and deep the love of Christ is. All Christians should know that. I ask God that you may know the love of Christ which is more than we can ever know. I ask that you be filled with everything that God has” (Ephesians 3:17–19, WE).**

Under the new agreement, the Lord puts His law in our hearts (Jeremiah 31:31–33). Jesus lives in our hearts, too, with His law. Ephesians 3:17–19 shows us that Jesus and His law are closely connected. The Greek word written as “live” in these verses also means “to come to rest” or “to make a home” somewhere. Jesus makes His home in our hearts. So, we see another important promise of the new agreement: a new heart.

`Why do we need a new heart? What change will be shown in people who have a new heart?`

Read Ephesians 3:17–19 again. Do you see that love is the most important idea Paul talks about? Paul says we must “live and grow in love.” What do these words show? They show us that love will help us to stay firm in our faith. Our faith means nothing if we do not have love for God and love for other people (Matthew 22:37–39). Our love for God starts with His love for us. We see His love in Jesus. This love changes our lives. Our hearts are changed too. Then we become new people. We have new thoughts, feelings, and plans. We become more loving, and love people more too. Maybe this is what Paul talks about when he says the love of Jesus is “wide and long and high and deep” (Ephesians 3:18, WE).

`Read 1 John 4:16. Compare this verse to Ephesians 3:17–19. How are these two verses the same?`

`Look at the verses we studied today. What can you do to make these promises real in your life? What things do you need to change? Make a list of these changes. If you feel comfortable, share your list in class. How can you help each other change the things that need to be changed?`