---
title:  The New Agreement And Everlasting Life 
date:  23/06/2021
---

**Jesus said to her, ‘I am the One who raises [wakes up] the dead and gives them life. Anyone who puts his trust in Me will live again, even if he dies. Anyone who lives and has put his trust in Me will never die. Do you believe this?’ ” (John 11:25, 26, NLV).**

Everlasting life has two parts. There is the part we enjoy now. There is the part we enjoy in the future. Right now, we can live a full life in Jesus (John 10:10). Jesus gives us many promises for our lives today.

The future part of everlasting life is the promise that God will give us new bodies (John 5:28, 29; John 6:39). This promise makes everything we suffer now worth it. Everlasting life is the reward we hope for.

`Study John 11:25, 26. What is Jesus saying in these verses? Where do we find everlasting life? How do we understand these words of Jesus: the people who live and believe in Him will never die, even if they do die? (For the answer, also read Revelation 2:11; Revelation 20:6, 14; Revelation 21:8).`

Of course, we all die. But Jesus says death is really the same as sleeping. We lay in the grave for a little while, the same as going to sleep at night when we were alive. Then Jesus will wake us up from the dead when He comes back. Jesus will give us bodies that cannot die. Both the dead and the people alive on the earth when Jesus comes back will have the same bodies. At that time, everlasting life will start for the people of God.

Life does not end in the grave! This thought should fill us with joy. There is no end. Our new life continues forever.

“Jesus was born in a human body. He did this so that we can become one spirit with Him. The life of Jesus becomes our life by faith. That is why the dead can wake up from their graves. Their waking up will show the power of Jesus. Who will have everlasting life? The people who see Jesus as He is and accept Him into their hearts. Jesus lives in us by His Spirit. When does everlasting life start? When we accept Jesus into the heart by faith.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 388, adapted.