---
title:  The New Agreement And Our Work For God 
date:  24/06/2021
---

**‘So go and make disciples [followers] in all countries. Bapti[z]e them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Teach them to do all the things I have told you to do. I am with you always, even to the end of time’ ” (Matthew 28:19, 20, WE).**

God gave all humans the gift of life. But many people do not know what to do with this gift. It is the same as giving someone a library filled with expensive books. But does the person read the books? No. He uses the books to build fires! This is an awful waste of something so precious!

We do not have this problem. As Christians, we live under the new agreement. So, we know Jesus personally. He is our Savior. He died for our sins and the sins of every human everywhere. Jesus did this so that we all may have everlasting life and know real joy. Matthew 28:19, 20 shows us the plan of God for our lives. We must share with other people the wonderful Bible truth we learned about Jesus. Most everything else we do on this earth will end when this earth ends. But our sharing the Good News about Jesus with other people can change their lives forever. Wow! We have a powerful work for God to do.

`Break the verses for today into all their separate parts and ideas. What is Jesus telling us to do? How do we do these things? What promise does God give us that fills us with the faith and courage to do what Jesus asks?`

`As Christians, we live under the new agreement. God gives us a command in Matthew 28:19, 20. This command shows us exactly what He wants us to do. Maybe you feel you are not very important, powerful, or rich. But God has given each one of us a part to do in His important work. What have you been doing to help the Lord? Can you do more? What can your class do together to have a bigger part in this work?`