---
title:  Further Thought
date:  25/06/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “God’s People Delivered,” pages 635–645, in The Great Controversy; “Rejoicing in the Lord,” pages 115–126, in Steps to Christ.

“Jesus was the Holy Son of God. Jesus did not carry his own sins or sadness. No, Jesus felt the sadness of other people. God put on Jesus the sins of every human. Jesus connects Himself to humans by His love and pity for the human family. Jesus is the One who stands in front of God for us. That is why He accepts the punishment for our sins. Jesus looks at the awful separation that sin causes between us and God. Then Jesus promises to be the same as a bridge. He will connect humans to God again.”—Ellen G. White, Bible Echo and Signs of the Times, August 1, 1892, adapted.

“Come, my brother. Come as you are. You are full of sin. You are not clean. Come anyway. Put your heavy load of guilt on Jesus. By faith, you can accept His perfect life of obedience. Come now, while God continues to give you His mercy. Come and confess your sins. Come with a heart that is sorry for your mistakes. God will forgive you fully. Do not wait. Obey the voice of mercy that asks you to wake up from the dead. Then Jesus will give you light. . . . Do not let your pride or doubt cause you to keep refusing the gift of mercy from God. If you do, you will cry out in sadness at the end: “ ‘Gathering time is past, summer is ended, and we are not saved.’ [Jeremiah 8:20, NLV].”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, page 353, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“We see how small we are compared to the stars and planets in the sky,” wrote Francisco José Moreno. “We know that we do not understand very much. We know that we do not have any power to save ourselves from death. So, we are afraid.”—Between Faith and Reason: Basic Fear and the Human Condition (New York: Harper & Row, Publishers, 1977), page 7, adapted. Compare this idea with the teaching in Ephesians 3:17–19. What is different between the two?`

`God promises us joy because we believe in Jesus. Is joy the same as happiness? Should we always be happy? If we are not, is something wrong with our Christian experience? What does the life of Jesus show us that helps us answer these questions?`

`Talk some more about the being “filled with everything that God has” (Ephesians 3:19, WE). What does this idea mean? How can we experience this in our lives?`

**Summary**: The new agreement is more than simply teachings about God. The new agreement is a saving friendship with God too. As our Friend, Jesus gives us many wonderful promises and rewards, now and at the Second Coming.