---
title:  What People Are So Blessed As Israel?
date:  30/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Deuteronomy 4:1, 2; Numbers 25:1–15; Deuteronomy 4:5–9; Deuteronomy 4:32–35.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘I’m giving you the laws of the Lord today. What other nation [people group] is great [shown so much favor by God; blessed] enough to have rules and laws as fair as these?’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:8, NIrV).

AS WE SAW, DEUTERONOMY 1–3 shows us the history of Israel. Moses helps the people remember their past for a special reason. Moses wants the people to see the mercy of God in their experiences. In chapter 4, Moses stops teaching and starts preaching. His sermon is about how God will continue to keep His agreement, even after Israel messed up.

Chapter 4 starts with the Hebrew word “we’attah. “We’attah” can be written as “And now” or “So now.” The people finish hearing Moses tell them about everything God did for them in the past. “So now” the people must do what God tells them to do (read Deuteronomy 10:12).

The first verb that we read in Deuteronomy 4 after the words “So now” is “shama.’” “Shama’” is the same verb that Moses used in the Shema prayer we learned about last week. “Shama’” also means “hear,” “listen,” or “obey.” Moses says this verb again and again all through Deuteronomy.

So, now we see why chapter 4 starts with these words: “ ‘Now, Israel, listen to the laws and to the commands that I teach you. Obey them and you will live. Then you can go in and take the land that the Lord, the God of your ancestors [family members in the past], is giving you’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:1, ERV).