---
title:  Do Not Add Or Subtract 
date:  31/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What warning does Moses give the people about the rules and laws God gives them? Read Deuteronomy 4:1, 2 for the answer. Why does Moses warn Israel right away not to do this thing?`

Moses tells the people to obey the law. Then right away Moses tells the people not to add to these words or subtract from them. Why does Moses say that? Who would ever want to change the law of God?

We know the answer, of course.

“Satan tried to change the law of God before he was thrown out of heaven. Ever since, Satan never has stopped trying to do this same work. Satan tricked humans into believing the lie he told the angels in heaven before God threw him out. Satan said the law of God is wrong and needs to be changed. A large number of Christians show by their behavior that they accept this lie.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 2, page 107, adapted.

Look at the history of Israel. Israel got into trouble whenever they paid no attention to the law of God, right? This behavior is the same thing as their removing some of the important rules from the law. The Israelites also added to the law of God whenever they did things that went against the law.

`Read Matthew 15:1–9. How do these verses show us the same thing that Moses warned the children about in Deuteronomy 4:1, 2?`

Soon after God gave the Israelites the land that He promised them, they often paid no attention to His warnings. One of the things God warned them not to do is bow down to statues. But the people did not obey God. They started to follow many other false ideas from the people around them, too. Sometimes the Israelites even made these false ideas part of their worship of the Lord! By the time Jesus came, many wrong ideas were part of the Jewish religion. As Jesus Himself said, these false ideas made the teachings from God “ ‘not important,’ ” “ ‘useless,’ ” and “ ‘worth nothing’ ” (Matthew 15:6, ERV, NIrV, NLV).

`In what ways do we need to be careful not to add or remove anything from the things God tells us?`