---
title:  Baal Peor 
date:  01/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Deuteronomy 4:3, 4, Moses tells the people a little bit more about their history. Moses wants the people to learn some important spiritual lessons from their past.

`Read Numbers 25:1–15. What happened in this story? What Bible truth and important lessons should the people of Israel learn? from this awful experience?`

As we saw already, God commanded the Israelites to destroy some of the people groups around them. These stories do not make us comfortable, for sure. At the same time, the story about Baal Peor may help explain this command from God. God chose Israel to be His special witness. He wanted Israel to teach other people about Him and His love. God wanted His people to be living examples of His love, too. But often the Israelites turned against God. They failed to be examples of His love.

The people fail at Baal Peor. The Israelite men have sex with Midianite women. Often in the Bible, sex sins are a word picture for worshiping false gods (read Hosea 4:12–14). But at Baal Peor, the sex sins are not just word pictures. The sex sins are real. Satan sends Midiante women to the men of Israel. The women worship false gods. The women invite the Israelite men to have sex. The men allow these women to lead them into sin.

For sure, these sex sins lead the Israelite men into spiritual sins next. The Israelites start to worship false gods. “ ‘So Israel joined themselves [those people] to Baal [the false god] of Peor’ ” (Numbers 25:3, NLV). How do they join to Baal? The Israelites give their hearts to this false God and even make offerings to it. The people are willing to throw away everything they learned about the real God for a false one. And all for what? Sex.

How did this ever happen? Easily. The men made their hearts and minds hard against God after the first sin. Then the men were ready to do the next sin. So, first they sinned with their bodies. Then they sinned with their minds. The second sin was the real plan of Satan all along.

`Our minds and bodies are closely connected. What happens to one part of us changes the other part, too. What can we learn from Baal Peor about why we must be careful to practice self-control at all times?`