---
title:  Stick With The Lord Your God 
date:  02/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Thousands of people died when they followed Baal at Peor. “ ‘The Lord your God destroyed all your people who followed the false god Baal at that place’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:3, ERV). But not everyone followed Baal.

Who were they?

“ ‘But all of you who stayed with the Lord your God are alive today’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:4, ERV). What makes the people who do not sin with Baal different from the ones who do sin? What message is in Deuteronomy 4:4 for us about sin and our power over it? Where do we get that power from?

Do you see the word “all” in this verse and in the verse before it? “All” the people who followed Baal at Peor were destroyed (Deuteronomy 4:3, ERV). “ ‘But all of you who stayed with the Lord your God are alive today’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:4, ERV). The Bible shows us only two groups in this story: the group for Jesus, and the group against Him (Matthew 12:30). Are things any different today?

The Hebrew word for “stayed” in Deuteronomy 4:4 is “dbq.” This word shows us someone who has a strong wish to be joined to something or someone else. The same Hebrew word is used in Genesis 2:24: a man shall leave his family and join with his wife (read also Ruth 1:14). We see this word with this same meaning four more times in Deuteronomy (Deuteronomy 10:20; Deuteronomy 11:22; Deuteronomy 13:4; and Deuteronomy 30:20). In each verse, the idea is the same: the people must stay with their God. They must fasten to Him and hold on tight. The people need to give their lives fully to Him. They must accept His strength. When they do, God helps His people win the fight against sin.

`Read Jude 24 and 1 Corinthians 10:13. What do Jude and Paul say here that Moses says in Deuteronomy 13:4?`

God keeps His promises. He can keep us from sinning. But we must join ourselves fully to Him, just as the loyal Israelites did at Baal Peor. If we do, then we can be sure that God will help us stay obedient to Him.

`How do prayer, Bible study, worship, and fellowship help us “[stay] with Lord” (Deuteronomy 4:4, ERV)?`