---
title:  What People Are So Blessed As Israel? 
date:  03/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The next few verses in Deuteronomy 4 are some of the most beautiful verses in the whole Bible. For sure, one can say that the most important message of Deuteronomy is found right here in these verses. The rest of the book is just an explanation about them. Whatever view you have about Deuteronomy, think about the important rules shown in Deuteronomy 4:5–9. Then ask yourself: What meaning do these rules have for our lives today?

`Read Deuteronomy 4:5–9. Why does the Lord say these words to His people?`

The Lord wants His people to understand that He chose them for a special reason. Israel is a “great [special] people. God told Abram His plan right from the start when he left the Chaldees: “ ‘I will build a great nation from you’ ” (Genesis 12:2, ERV; read also Genesis 18:18).

Why did God want to make Israel so special? Because God wanted Israel to “ ‘bless other people’ ” (Genesis 12:2, ERV). Then God planned to use Israel to bless all the people on earth’ ” (Genesis 12:3, ERV). How did God plan to do that? By sending Jesus to be born in Israel. Until that time, God wanted His people to be the same as a light on the earth: “ ‘ ‘I will make you a light for the other nations [non-Jews]. You will show people all over the world [on the earth] the way to be saved” ’ ” (Isaiah 49:6, ERV).

Think about this idea: Israel worshiped the God who made the stars. This same God is the Lord of both heaven and earth. The people around Israel worshiped stars, rocks, stones, wood, and demons (Deuteronomy 32:17; Psalm 106:37).

Wow! Can things get any different than that?

In Deuteronomy 4:5–9, Moses names two things that make Israel special. First, the Lord is near to His people. He lived in the Holy Tent in the middle of their camp. Second, Israel is special because of all “ ‘the laws and rules’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:5, ERV) God gave them.

`Read Deuteronomy 4:32–35. What else is the Lord saying to His people in these verses? How does this message show the people the special work that God gave them to do?`

`For sure, God gave Israel so much. The question is: How will His people answer?`