---
title:  Your Wisdom And Good Sense 
date:  04/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we have seen, Deuteronomy 4:1–9 explains why Israel is so special. These verses also show the work God gave His people to do. All through these verses, we see an important idea: Israel must obey God. They must do what He commands.

`Read again Deuteronomy 4:6. What does the Lord say will cause other people to say that Israel has wisdom and good sense?`

When we first look at Deuteronomy 4:6, we may think that the laws and rules were wise and understanding. But that is not what the verse says. Yes, the Lord taught His people wise laws and rules. But the wisdom and good sense of the people came from keeping the laws and rules. So, the obedience of the people was their wisdom and good sense.

Israel had the most wonderful laws and rules that any country on earth ever had. But what good were all these laws if Israel refused to obey them? When Israel lived the law, they showed their wisdom and good sense to everyone around them. So, again and again, God commanded His people to obey Him. Their obedience showed the Bible truth about God and His love to people everywhere.

“The people must obey the law of God. Then they will become a success in the eyes of everyone on earth. God already gave His people wisdom and skill to make beautiful things. This same God will continue to teach His people. He will make their lives better when they obey His laws. Then they will not get sick. God also will give His people very smart minds. The people will show God in all their success and riches. God chose His people to be a kingdom of religious leaders and princes. God gave them everything they needed to become the most powerful country on earth.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 288, adapted.

`Read Matthew 5:13–16. What is Jesus saying in these verses to us? How does this message show the same thing Jesus said to Israel in the Old Testament? What does this message mean for us today, as Seventh-day Adventists?`