---
title:  Further Thought
date:  05/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“The war between good and evil started in heaven. Satan has been hard at work on this plan ever since. Satan went to war against God to get rid of His law. God threw Satan out of heaven. But Satan continued his war against God on this earth. Satan has been very busy. He tricks men with his lies. Then Satan leads them to break the law of God. Satan leads some men to throw out one of the commandments. Satan leads other men to throw out the whole law. In the end, the same thing happens. The person that is guilty of breaking one law shows he does not respect the whole law. This man will, by his example, lead other people to sin. In this way, this man becomes guilty of breaking the whole law. James 2:10.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 582, adapted.

Let us read what Ellen G. White wrote about Baal Peor: “The people of Israel did what God told them not to do. Then Satan caught the people in his trap. Satan charmed the Israelite men with music and dancing. The beauty of the Midianite women also charmed the men of Israel. Then they threw off their loyalty to the Lord. The men joined in joking and eating. They drank wine. They lost their good sense and self-control. Their wish to have sex took full control of them. Then they bowed down to statues. They offered gifts on altars to false gods. They took part in worship that lowered their hearts and minds.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 454, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about the ways that God has chosen Seventh-day Adventists to do a special work., the same He chose Israel in Bible times. Think about all that God has given us compared to the people on earth and even the people in other churches. The question for us is: What are we doing with what God gave us? How are we showing our wisdom and good sense to the people?`

`The Lord does not force us to follow Him. We must choose to follow Him. After we make this choice, How do we take firm hold of Him and not let go?`

`What does it mean to add or subtract from the law of God? Is it possible for us to do this thing and not really know what we are doing? Explain your answer.`