---
title:  Further Thought
date:  25/09/2020
---

“Those who have the spiritual oversight of the church should devise ways and means by which an opportunity may be given to every member of the church to act some part in God’s work. Too often in the past this has not been done. Plans have not been clearly laid and fully carried out whereby the talents of all might be employed in active service. There are but few who realize how much has been lost because of this.

“The leaders in God’s cause, as wise generals, are to lay plans for advance moves all along the line. In their planning they are to give special study to the work that can be done by the laity for their friends and neighbors. The work of God in this earth can never be finished until the men and women comprising our church membership rally to the work and unite their efforts with those of ministers and church officers.

“The salvation of sinners requires earnest, personal labor. We are to bear to them the word of life, not to wait for them to come to us. Oh, that I could speak words to men and women that would arouse them to diligent action! The moments now granted to us are few. We are standing upon the very borders of the eternal world. We have no time to lose. Every moment is golden and altogether too precious to be devoted merely to self-serving. Who will seek God earnestly and from Him draw strength and grace to be His faithful workers in the missionary field?

“In every church there is talent, which, with the right kind of labor, might be developed to become a great help in this work. That which is needed now for the upbuilding of our churches is the nice work of wise laborers to discern and develop talent in the church—talent that can be educated for the Master’s use.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, pp. 116, 117.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What is the main thought of the Ellen G. White quote above? What impact can it have on your personal witnessing and your church’s outreach?`

`How is genuine love always manifested? What are counterfeit forms of love that have little to do with genuine love?`

`In class, talk about the sacrifices that people have made for the Lord, including the loss of life. What can you learn from these stories?`

`Think about your answer to the question at the end of Sunday’s lesson, about what you have sacrificed for Christ. What, in fact, have you sacrificed? Why did you do it? Was it worth it? How could you explain, to someone who is not a Christian, what you did and why you did it?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

That I May Know Him, "Will You Let Him In?" p. 56

In Heavenly Places, "Glory Indescribable," p. 358