---
title:  Teacher Comments
date:   25/09/2020
---

**Key Text**: Philippians 2:5-11

**Study Focus**: Matthew 4:18-22, 2 Corinthians 5:10-12, John 21:15-19.

#### Part I: Overview

Genuine faith always leads to action. Biblical faith is so good that it works. The New Testament church was a church that was passionate about witness. Sharing Christ was the natural outgrowth of their relationship with Him. They were prepared to make the supreme sacrifice for His cause. Many of them suffered persecution, imprisonment, and even death. No sacrifice was too great for the Jesus who gave so much for them. 

Their commitment to Christ often led them to take a leap of faith. Christ called them out of their comfort zones. The task before them was far beyond their ability to accomplish. It was far too great for them to accomplish, but not too great for God to accomplish. They grasped the promises of God and in faith went out to change the world.

The task before the church today is far beyond our capacity to accomplish. Christ is calling us to take a leap of faith. In this week’s lesson, we will review the life- changing commitment of the New Testament church in the light of Christ’s commitment to redeem us. Jesus was completely surrendered to the Father’s will. The single-minded focus of His life was the salvation of humanity. No sacrifice was too great to accomplish that goal. Our study this week explores how His sacrifice is an example to us. He invites us to take a leap of faith in giving our lives in service to Him and in ministry to others.

#### Part II: Commentary

Philippians 2:5-11 is one of the most magnificent passages in the entire Bible on the condescension of Christ. Some authors call this passage, “The Song of Christ.” The entire book of Philippians focuses on three major themes—rejoicing, humility, and faith. Philippians 2 highlights the theme of humility. Jesus left the magnificent glories of His exalted state in heaven, divested Himself of the privileges and prerogatives as God’s equal, entered the realm of humanity as a servant, and died the lowliest of deaths on the cross. The apostle Paul uses this example of Jesus as a model for Christian living. Christ’s sacrificial life of unselfish ministry is the model for all Christian faith. He left the celestial realms and came to earth as the “unwearied servant of man’s necessity . . . [to] minister to every need of humanity.” —Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, p. 17.     

Commenting on this passage in the introduction to the book of Philippians in the Andrews University Study Bible, the author states, “Christians give up claims of equality and serve one another in love and humility to prevent the spirit of competition from flaring up. Through this act of self-lowering, Christians also distinguish themselves from the people of the world, who seek their rights and engage in struggles to achieve equality with their peers and superiors.”—(Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press, 2010), p. 1552. A careful analysis of Philippians 2:5-11 reveals gems of truth for our lives today. The passage begins with these memorable words, “Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus” (Phil. 2:5, NKJV). The apostle has presented the need earlier in the chapter for unity and unselfish humility. Now he focuses on Christ as our example of sacrificial living and ministry. The mind of Christ is the mind of service. 

Jesus was totally committed to ministering to the needs of those around Him. Jesus was in the form (Phil. 2:6) or the very essence of God. He had by His very nature all the eternal characteristics and qualities of God. According to The SDA Bible Commentary, “This places Christ on an equality with the Father, and sets Him far above every other power. Paul stresses this in order to portray more vividly the depths of Christ’s voluntary humiliation.”—Volume 7, p. 154. According to the apostle Paul, Christ did not think it “robbery” to be “equal with God.” 

In other words, He recognized His eternal nature and His oneness with the Father but voluntarily in love surrendered His position at the Father’s side to make “Himself of no reputation.” This phrase in Philippians 2:7 is literally translated that He “emptied Himself.” He divested Himself of all the kingdom glory. All the inherent characteristics and qualities that were His by His eternal nature and oneness with God were surrendered for our sake. He came not in a kingly palace, the son of royalty, but as a humble, obedient servant. 

The Greek word for servant is doulos meaning bond-servant or slave. It is obvious that Paul is contrasting two estates: the form of God and the form of a servant. Jesus went from the highest position to the lowest position, all for us. He surrendered His divine sovereignty for a life of sacrificial service. To have the mind of Christ is to have the mind of loving self-sacrifice for the salvation of others. The mind of Christ is one of ministry and service. It is one of mercy, compassion, forgiveness, and grace.

Christ’s death on the cross reveals His heart of love. Genuine love always leads us to make sacrifices for the ones we love. Love is not a superficial, emotional feeling, although feelings are associated with love. Love is a commitment. It is a choice to always seek the best for others. Love compels us to make sacrifices in our lives for the kingdom of God. It leads us to step out in faith to use the gifts He has given us to bless others.

**The Demands of Love**

After His crucifixion and resurrection, Jesus met a small group of His disciples on the shores of the Sea of Galilee. Jesus’ goal in that early morning hour was to rebuild a man. Peter had denied Him three times. Jesus was there to evoke a response of love from Peter’s heart and give him a new sense of forgiveness, acceptance, and purpose. After a night of fishing where these experienced fishermen did not catch a single fish, Jesus worked a divine miracle. Their nets were full to overflowing with a wonderful catch. Sitting around the campfire that Galilean morning, Jesus asked Peter this pertinent question, “ ‘Simon, son of Jonah, do you love Me more than these?’ He said to Him, ‘Yes, Lord; You know that I love You.’ He said to him, “Feed My lambs” (John 21:15, NKJV). In the original language of the text, there are two words for “love.” When Jesus askes Peter the question, He asks, “ ‘Do you love [agape] Me?’ ” In some contexts, the word agape refers to love that flows from the heart of God. A love like that is of divine origin. It is a pure unselfish love. 

When Peter responds to Jesus, he does not use the word agape. He says, “ ‘Yes, Lord; You know that I love You.’ ” The word Peter uses is the Greek word phileo. This refers to a deep human bond. For example, the word “Philadelphia” means brotherly love. Jesus’ response is “ ‘Feed My lambs.’ ” In other words, give your life in self-sacrificial service. Go to work for me. Minister to others. 

Jesus asks Peter the same question in John 21:16 and using the same words, but the third time in John 21:17, Jesus changes the word for love when He asks the question. We do not see this in most languages, but it is clear in the original language of the New Testament. Jesus no longer asks Peter; do you love me with the divine agape love? He asks, do you phileo me? It seems as if Jesus is saying this—“Peter, I know that your love for me flows through the weak channels of your humanity. You have denied me three times, but I forgive you. My grace is yours. Begin where you are. Go to work for me, and your love for me will grow and expand into a deep divine love for others.” Peter failed Jesus at a very critical moment in Christ’s life, yet that did not disqualify Peter from serving. Jesus sent a forgiven, changed Peter out to work for Him. 

Like Peter, our love for Christ will grow in service to others. The more we love Jesus, the more we desire to share that love with the people around us. The more we share His love with the people around us, the more our love for Jesus will grow. Ellen G. White shares this eternal truth in Steps to Christ, page 80: “The spirit of unselfish labor for others gives depth, stability, and Christlike loveliness to the character, and brings peace and happiness to its possessor.” When we take a leap of faith and become actively involved in witnessing, we grow spiritually. Life’s greatest joys come from sharing the love of God with others. As we daily seek opportunities to share what Christ means to us, we will see providential opportunities open before us. The Holy Spirit will lead seeking people into our lives.

#### Part III: Life Application

There are many people that fail to witness because they are unsure of what to say. Others are fearful of rejection or embarrassment. What are some of the most common reasons you think some people are hesitant to witness? Discuss with your class their thoughts on why many church members are not actively involved in sharing their faith. 

We have come to the end of our lessons this quarter. What is the most significant thing that you have gotten out of the lessons? Is there some insight that you have grasped that is going to make a significant difference in your life?

There is a wonderful statement by God’s last-day messenger that we can take with us as we finish our class this quarter: “Our confession of His faithfulness is Heaven’s chosen agency for revealing Christ to the world. We are to acknowledge His grace as made known through the holy men of old; but that which will be most effectual is the testimony of our own experience. We are witnesses for God as we reveal in ourselves the working of a power that is divine.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 347.