---
title:  The Shepherd’s Crucible
date:  25/06/2022
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Psalm 23, Rom. 12:18–21.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “He restores my soul; He leads me in the paths of righteousness for His name’s sake” (Psalm 23:3, NKJV).

Sophie leaned back against her bedroom door and slid to the floor. Tears were welling up fast, and it was only a moment before she was sobbing. “How could he? How could he!” Sophie had just received news that was breaking her heart. Someone she thought was a friend, someone she respected and trusted, was spreading awful gossip about her in order to ruin her reputation and the work she had been doing. Grabbing her Bible off the bed, she suddenly found herself staring at some very familiar words: “He restores my soul; He leads me in the paths of righteousness for His name’s sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for You are with me; Your rod and Your staff, they comfort me” (Ps. 23:3, 4, NKJV).

“Surely this can’t be!” she blurted out to herself. But the logic seemed inescapable. The Shepherd in the psalm was guiding His sheep in paths of righteousness, but these very paths also seemed to wind their way into the valley of the shadow of death. Could it be possible that even this painful betrayal by a friend, this dark valley, could be used by God to train her in righteousness?

**The Week at a Glance**: At what times have you grown more spiritually—through the easy times or the harder ones?

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, July 2._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

As Jesus, the great Teacher, presents His lessons to be learned from the open book of nature, He opens the eye of their understanding to reveal the attention that is given to objects in proportion to the rank they occupy in the scale of creation. If the grass of the field, which today is so beautiful, delighting the senses, [and] is tomorrow cut down and burned, receives so great attention from God, how much more will He not bestow upon man formed in His image. We cannot form exaggerated ideas of the value of the human soul, and the attention given by Heaven to man. He then gives the comforting assurance, “Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father’s good pleasure to give you the kingdom.”<br/>
Jesus is the good Shepherd. His followers are the sheep of His pasture. A shepherd is always with his flock to defend them, to keep them from the wolves, to hunt up the lost sheep and carry them back to the fold, to lead them beside green pastures and beside living waters.—Lift Him Up, p. 215.

Let us never forget, even when we walk in the valley, that Christ is as much with us when we walk trustingly there as when we are on the mountaintop. The voice said to us, “Will you not roll your burden upon the Burden Bearer, the Lord Jesus Christ? Will you not live on the sunny side of the cross? saying, ‘I know [Him] whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day.’ ‘Whom having not seen, ye love; in whom, though now ye see Him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory: receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls’ ” (1 Timothy 1:12; 1 Peter 1:8, 9).<br/>
. . . I must trust in Him irrespective of the changes of my emotional atmosphere. I must show forth the praises of Him who has called me “out of darkness into His marvelous light” (1 Peter 2:9). My heart must be steadfast in Christ, my Saviour, beholding His love and gracious goodness. I must not trust Him now and then, but always, that I may manifest the results of abiding in Him who has bought me with His precious blood. We must learn to believe the promises, to have an abiding faith so that we may take them as the sure word of God.—Mind, Character, and Personality, vol. 2, pp. 811, 812.

Satan is our destroyer, but Christ is our restorer. We must put faith into constant exercise, and trust in God, whatever our feelings may be. . . . You can say with the psalmist, “Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for ever.”—Lift Him Up, p. 332.