---
title:  An Important Rule
date:   06/04/2025
---

In the book of Genesis, God introduces ideas that we will read about later in other books of the Bible. The first time the Bible talks about an idea or a symbol, we learn something about it that will help us understand how to use it later.

This teaching helps us understand an important rule in Bible study. God gives His children information a little at a time. First, the Lord gives us a basic idea in the Bible. Then He gives us more information about this idea over the years in different parts of the Bible.

`Read Isaiah 40:7, 8; Malachi 3:6; and Hebrews 13:8. What important rule do you learn from these verses? How does this rule help you in your study of the Bible’s special messages about the future?`

Many modern thinkers believe we can’t know the truth about life. These thinkers say that truth is something that can change over time.

But when God teaches us what the truth is, He doesn’t change His mind about it. We can trust Jesus when He starts teaching us the truth. New ideas about the truth do not change the first meaning. New ideas help us understand the meaning of the same old Bible truths better. So, we should do our best to understand the book of Genesis. In this book, you will find many important ideas explained for the first time. Then you will get a basic understanding of other ideas that you will read about in the rest of the Bible.

`Why is it so important that we not let anyone, or anything, make our faith in the Bible and its teachings become weak? What causes our faith in Bible truth to become weak?`