---
title:  Understanding God’s Love
date:   07/04/2025
---

When we understand the Bible truth about love, we will better understand God’s special messages about the future. An important topic in the worldwide war between good and evil is God’s love. Many people do not understand Bible truth about God’s love and mercy. Ellen G. White talks about God’s love after the worldwide war between good and evil is finished: “Everything in heaven and on earth is clean. Everything God made is at peace and is happy. God fills everything with life, light, and joy. From the smallest thing God made to the biggest planet, everything announces that God is love.”—The Great Controversy, page 678, adapted.

`Read Genesis 22:1–13. The first time we read about “love” in the Bible is in Genesis 22:2. What does this story teach us about God’s love?`

Sometimes Bible students look for the first time that different books of the Bible talk about the same topic. If our topic is “love,” we may want to read what the Gospel writers say about it. The Gospel writers are Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. The first time the Gospel writers talk about “love” is in Matthew 3:17; Mark 1:11; Luke 3:22; and John 3:16.

The first time that John writes about love in his Gospel helps us to understand God’s love better. John’s verse helps us remember the story about Isaac on the altar (Genesis 22:9). Abraham’s faith in God was strong. Abraham believed that God could wake up Isaac from the dead if Abraham gave him as a burnt offering to God (Hebrews 11:19). Abraham’s offering showed God’s love for humans. God loves us so much “that he gave his only Son” (John 3:16, ERV; also read Genesis 22:2, 12, 16). Then God woke up His Son from the dead. So, we see, in Genesis 22, an example of God’s love for us.

`How do we feel the same love for other people that God feels for us? Why does this love feel too hard for most of us?`