---
title:  "Isaac’s Question: Where is the Lamb?"
date:   08/04/2025
---

The first time the Bible talks about a “seh” (the Hebrew word for “a lamb”) is in the story in Genesis 22. As we saw yesterday, this story is the same one that talks about love for the first time, too, in the Bible. The lamb is one of the most important symbols or word pictures in the book of Revelation. In this book, Jesus is named “the Lamb” more than twenty times. In one of the most powerful chapters in the book of Revelation, we read about John’s visit to God’s throne room in heaven (Revelation 4 and 5). The Lamb has an important part in chapter 5.

`Read Genesis 22:7, 8; Exodus 12:3–13; and Revelation 5:5–10. How does the story about Abraham offering Isaac help us understand how Bible writers use lambs as word pictures? How does Abraham and Isaac’s story help explain what John sees in Revelation 5?`

Again, the first time we read about a “seh [lamb]” in the Bible is when Isaac asks, “Where is the lamb?” (Genesis 22:7, ERV). The rest of the Bible answers this question. The other 38 books of the Old Testament answer this question with more and more information. From the Old Testament offerings to the stories about King David, we see Isaac’s question get answered again and again. The Old Testament also has special messages about the future Savior. In the New Testament, Isaac’s question is answered when Jesus comes to the earth to help His people and dies on the cross.

In the meantime, look at the first time John talks about a Lamb in his story about Jesus. In John 1:29–34, John writes about John the Baptist. John the Baptist personally answers Isaac’s question. In this story, sinners confess their sins. They get baptized. Baptism is a word picture for the sinner’s spiritual death and the beginning of a new life in Jesus. Then Jesus, the Lamb of God, comes and the skies open. A voice from heaven announces Jesus: “ ‘This is my Son, the one I love. I am very pleased with him’ ” (Matthew 3:17, ERV). Notice that a voice (the Angel of the Lord) also announces from heaven the answer to Abraham and Isaac’s problem (Genesis 22:11–14).

All these verses show that Jesus, the Lamb of God, is our Substitute. This Bible truth helps us better understand the Lamb in John’s dream (Revelation 5).