---
title:  The Experience of Death
date:   09/04/2025
---

Death is an important topic in the Bible’s end-time messages. The first time the Bible talks about death helps us understand the sin problem better. It also helps us better understand how God will solve the sin problem.

`The first time the Bible talks about someone dying is in Genesis 4:8–15. The first time the Bible talks about death is in Genesis 2:15–17. Also read 1 Corinthians 15:15–19; and Revelation 1:18. What do all these verses tell us about why people die and what God thinks about death? How will God solve the problem of death?`

We often say that “death is just part of life.” That is a lie. Death is completely different from life. Death was not meant to be part of our experience here on earth. We are used to death. But we fight against death strongly when we meet it. We understand, as humans, that there is something very wrong with death. As painful as death is, some deaths can make us feel worse than other deaths. When a child dies, we feel very sad. We expect parents to die before their children. So, when a child dies before his parents do, his death can be very painful to the ones who loved him.

The first death that we read about in the Bible is the death of Abel. His parents, Adam and Eve, feel the pain of losing their holy son after Cain, his evil brother, kills him. Abel’s death was not fair.

Think about Jesus. Jesus was holy. Evil people killed Jesus just as Cain killed Abel. Jesus’ death was not fair. How does Abel’s death help us understand the death of Jesus on the cross? How does Abel’s death help us understand what Jesus means when He says, “ ‘I have power over death and hell’ ” (Revelation 1:18, NLV)? What is God offering to us in Jesus?

`If the problem with sin isn’t solved, why would our lives have no meaning? What does your answer teach us about how thankful we should be for what Jesus did for us on the cross?`