---
title:  The Snake
date:   10/04/2025
---

Worship is an important topic in the book of Revelation. The dragon invented false worship (Revelation 13:2–4). The dragon is a word picture for Satan. Satan also is named Lucifer, a fallen angel. John compares Lucifer to a dragon. This language helps us remember the snake in the Garden of Eden. The snake convinced Adam and Eve to join him in fighting against God.

`Compare Genesis 3:1–5 with Revelation 12:1–9. What are some of the same ideas in each story? How does the story about the snake in Genesis help us understand some of the reasons that led to the war in heaven that the book of Revelation talks about?`

Two stories in the Bible talk about how Satan lies to all the people on the earth and leads them away from God. The first story happens in Genesis at a time when Adam and Eve are the only two people on earth. The second story is in Revelation 12 and 13, where John says Satan “fools all the people in the world [on the earth]” (Revelation 12:9, WE). Satan gives power to the sea beast (Revelation 13:2). Later, Satan uses the land beast to cause everyone to worship the sea beast (Revelation 13:12). One of the most important end-time topics in the Bible is the worldwide war between God and Satan. The war shows that God’s love and His mercy don’t change. As long as the devil is alive, he won’t change his plans, either. The devil won’t quit his fight against God.

God always will be who He is. So will the devil. Satan may hide who he really is from people. But the book of Revelation and human history show us that Satan uses the same plan he used in the Garden of Eden. God promised us wisdom and understanding (James 1:5). Satan tricked many people in the past. In the future, he will trick many more. But the Bible will protect us from the devil’s lies.

`Behavior and ideas that people accepted in the past aren’t accepted now. Behavior and ideas that people didn’t accept before are now accepted. As Christians who believe in the worldwide war between good and evil, how should we live with people who often change their ideas and beliefs? Satan told two lies in Eden: (1) you won’t die, and (2) you will be gods. Where do you find these lies being told today?`