---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   11/04/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Revelation,” pages 578–581, in The Acts of the Apostles.

Many religions today started from ideas. But the ideas in the Christian religion come from real experiences that happened in history. The Bible is the story about God’s relationship with people during human history. When we study these relationships, we can learn much about God and His love. God’s love doesn’t change.

Sometimes Christians complain that they are tired of hearing the same things. Sometimes when a pastor is preaching our message, we may think we have nothing new to learn.

While our message doesn’t change, that doesn’t mean that our message isn’t interesting. When you study the information that God gives our church, you learn really fast that you will never get to the end of a topic and know everything there is to know about it.

One of the reasons Ellen G. White says that John wrote the book of Revelation was to help the Christian church know God’s plan for it. But “some of the younger workers [at that time] . . . became tired of the Bible truths they often heard. They wanted to hear something new. So they tried to introduce new teachings.”—The Acts of the Apostles, page 580, adapted. As we see, the book of Revelation isn’t just a book about the future. The book of Revelation is also a book about the past. John wrote the book of Revelation to help us understand our church history and the reasons for our faith. When we do, we won’t let a wish for something new control or destroy our faith.

**Discussion Questions**:

`The Bible always gives us new information and new understanding. Yes, we may want to learn something new. But why is it important to continue to believe in the Bible truth that God already gave us?`

`What if someone comes up with a new teaching about one of the Bible’s special messages? Yes, there is always more to learn. At the same time, how may we know if the new “light” is Bible truth or another false teaching?`

`Why will our lives have no meaning if we never wake up from the dead?`