---
title:  Miserable Comforters
date:   27/11/2016
---

### Miserable Comforters

Even after Job’s powerful expression of faith (Job 13:15, 16), the verbal sparring continued. Over the course of many chapters, the men go back and forth, arguing many deep and important questions about God, sin, death, justice, the wicked, wisdom, and the transient nature of humanity.

What truths are being expressed in the following texts? 

`Job 13:28`

`Job 15:14–16`

`Job 19:25–27`

`Job 28:28`

Through all these chapters the arguments continued, neither side conceding its position. Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar, each in his own way, each with his own agenda, didn’t let up in the argument about how people get what they deserve in life; and thus, what came upon Job had to be just punishment for his sins. Job, meanwhile, continued to lament the cruel fate that had befallen him, certain that he did not deserve the suffering. Back and forth they sparred, each “comforter” accusing Job of uttering empty and vain words, and Job doing the same to them.

In the end, none of them, including Job, understood all that was going on. How could they? They were speaking from a very limited perspective, which all humans have. If we can get any lesson from the book of Job (one that should be obvious by now, especially after all the speeches of these men), it is that we as humans need humility when we profess to talk about God and the workings of God. We might know some truth, maybe even a lot of truth, but sometimes—as we can see with these three men—we might not necessarily know the best way to apply the truths that we know.
        
`Look around at the natural world. Why does this alone show us how limited we are in what we know about even the simplest of things?`