---
title:  The Irrationality of Evil
date:   30/11/2016
---

### The Irrationality of Evil

All four of these men, believers in God, believers in a God of justice, found themselves in a dilemma: how to explain Job’s situation in a rational and logical manner that was consistent with their understanding of the character of God. Unfortunately, they ended up taking a position that turned out basically wrong in their attempt to understand evil, or at least the evil that befell Job.

Ellen G. White offers a powerful comment in this regard. “It is impossible to explain the origin of sin so as to give a reason for its existence. . . . Sin is an intruder, for whose presence no reason can be given. It is mysterious, unaccountable; to excuse it is to defend it. Could excuse for it be found, or cause be shown for its existence, it would cease to be sin.”—The Great Controversy, pp. 492, 493.

Though she uses the word sin, suppose we replaced that word with another word, one that has a similar meaning: evil. Then the quote could read: It is impossible to explain the origin of evil so as to give a reason for its existence. . . . Evil is an intruder, for whose presence no reason can be given. It is mysterious, unaccountable; to excuse it is to defend it. Could excuse for it be found, or cause be shown for its existence, it would cease to be evil.

So often when tragedy strikes, people will say or think: “I don’t understand this.” Or “This doesn’t make sense.” This is precisely what Job’s complaint had been about all along.

There is a good reason that Job and his friends can’t make sense of it: evil itself doesn’t make sense. If we could understand it, if it made sense, if it fit into some logical and rational plan, then it wouldn’t be that evil, it wouldn’t be that tragic, because it would serve a rational purpose.

`Look at these verses about the fall of Satan and the origin of evil. How much sense does his fall make (Ezek. 28:12–17)?`

Here’s a perfect being, created by a perfect God, in a perfect environment. He’s exalted, full of wisdom, perfect in beauty, covered in precious stones, an “anointed cherub” who was in the “holy mountain of God.” And yet, even with all that and having been given so much, this being corrupted himself and allowed evil to take over. What could have been more irrational and illogical than the evil that came to infect the devil?

`What is your own experience with how irrational and inexplicable evil is?`