---
title:  The Disciples’ Mission
date:   02/07/2018
---

`Read Acts 1:8. Instead of indulging in prophetic speculations, what were the disciples expected to do?`

There are four important elements in this passage concerning the disciples’ mission:

1. _The gift of the Spirit._ The Spirit had always been active among God’s people. According to the prophets, however, there would be a special endowment of the Spirit in the future (Isa. 44:3; Joel 2:28, 29). As Jesus Himself was anointed with the Spirit, the Holy Spirit was already at work during the time of His ministry (Luke 4:18–21) but officially was not inaugurated until Christ’s exaltation in heaven (John 7:39, Acts 2:33).
2. _The role of witness._ A witness is a firsthand account. The disciples were fully qualified to give such a witness (Acts 1:21, 22; 4:20; compare with 1 John 1:1–3) and were now commissioned to share with the world their unique experience with Jesus.
3. _The plan of the mission._ The disciples were to witness first in Jerusalem, then in Judea and Samaria, and finally to the ends of the earth. It was a progressive plan. Jerusalem was the center of Jewish religious life, the place where Jesus had been condemned and crucified. Judea and Samaria were neighboring areas where Jesus also had ministered. The disciples, however, were not to limit themselves to this locale alone. The scope of their mission was worldwide.
4. _The orientation of the mission._ In Old Testament times, it was the nations that should be attracted to God (see Isa. 2:1–5), not Israel that should “take” God to the nations. The few exceptions (for example, Jonah) do not invalidate the general rule. Now the strategy was different. Jerusalem was still the center, but rather than staying and building roots there, the disciples were expected to move out to the uttermost ends of the earth.

`Read Luke 24:44–48. What was the core message that the disciples should preach?`

In the forty days He spent with the disciples after the resurrection (Acts 1:3), Jesus must have explained much truth to them about the kingdom of God, even if there was still much they didn’t understand, as their question in Acts 1:6 showed. They were familiar with the prophecies but could now see them in a new light, a light shed from the Cross and the empty tomb (see Acts 3:17–19).

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Ye shall be witnesses unto Me.” [Acts 1:8.] These words of Jesus have lost none of their force. Our Saviour calls for faithful witnesses in these days of religious formalism; but how few, even among the professed ambassadors for Christ, are ready to give a faithful, personal testimony for their Master! Many can tell what the great and good men of generations past have done, and dared, and suffered, and enjoyed. They become eloquent in setting forth the power of the gospel, which has enabled others to rejoice in trying conflicts, and to stand firm against fierce temptations. But while so earnest in bringing forward other Christians as witnesses for Jesus, they seem to have no fresh, timely experience of their own to relate. . . . 

You who profess to be proclaiming the last solemn message of mercy to the world, what is your experience in the knowledge of the truth, and what has been its effect upon your own hearts? Does your character testify for Christ? Can you speak of the refining, ennobling, sanctifying influence of the truth as it is in Jesus? What have you seen, what have you known, of the power of Christ? . . . 

Without a living faith in Christ as a personal Saviour, it is impossible to make your faith felt in a skeptical world. If you would draw sinners out of the swift-running current, your own feet must not stand on slippery places.—_Gospel Workers_, pp. 273, 274.  

All heaven is interested in the work that is going on in the earth today. The angels look with interest upon those who are honored in having a part to act as colaborers with God. When the servants of Christ have a realizing sense of the presence of One who is mighty to save, they will be filled with gratitude to God for the power of His grace. . . . Those who dedicate their all to Christ will learn how to win souls; for they will have a close connection with the Redeemer of the world.—_Reflecting Christ_, p. 297.  

Christ has given “to every man his work” (Mark 13:34). He expects every man to do his work with fidelity. High and low, rich and poor, all have a work to do for the Master. Everyone is called to action. . . . Unless the light which has been given you is communicated to others, unless you let your light shine, it will go out in darkness, and your soul will be left in awful peril. God speaks to every one who knows the truth, “Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven” (Matthew 5:16). Communicate the knowledge of the truth to others. This is God’s plan to enlighten the world.—_Selected Messages_, bk. 1, p. 266.