---
title:  The Twelfth Apostle
date:   05/07/2018
---


The first administrative action of the early Christian community, which numbered about 120 believers (Acts 1:15), was to choose a successor to Judas.

`Read Acts 1:21, 22. What qualifications was the successor to Judas expected to have? Why would these be so important?`

The need was for a witness of Jesus’ resurrection (compare with Acts 4:33); this is crucial because time and again the resurrection is viewed as powerful evidence for the Messiahship of Jesus and the truth of the whole Christian faith.  

The choice, however, was to be made from among those who had accompanied the apostles throughout Jesus’ ministry. Paul would later insist that, despite not having been with the earthly Jesus, he was nevertheless entitled to the apostolic office because his encounter with Jesus on the road to Damascus qualified him to bear witness to His resurrection (1 Cor. 9:1). Though admitting to be as “one untimely born” (1 Cor. 15:8, ESV), Paul refused to consider himself less qualified than the other apostles (1 Cor. 9:2, Gal. 2:6–9). Only the Twelve and Paul, then, were “apostles” in the technical, authoritative sense (Acts 1:25, 26); yet, in its basic, general sense as envoys or messengers, the term also could be used for other gospel workers (Acts 14:4, 14; Gal. 1:19).

`Read Acts 1:23–26. How was Matthias chosen?`

The method they used to choose Matthias may seem strange, but the casting of lots was a long-established way of making decisions (for example, Lev. 16:5–10, Num. 26:55). In addition, the choice was between two previously recognized candidates of equal qualifications, not a step into the unknown. The believers also prayed to God, believing that the result would reflect His will (compare with Prov. 16:33). There is no evidence that the decision was ever challenged. After Pentecost, the casting of lots became no longer necessary due to the direct guidance of the Spirit (Acts 5:3, 11:15–18, 13:2, 16:6–9). 

`If someone were to come to you and ask, “How can I know what God’s will is for my life?” what would you answer, and why?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

If in Christ’s day the believers needed to be guarded in their choice of men for positions of responsibility, we who are living in this time certainly need to move with great discretion. We are to present every case before God and in earnest prayer ask Him to choose for us. 

The Lord God of heaven has chosen experienced men to bear responsibilities in His cause. These men are to have special influence. . . . Those who are chosen to bear burdens in the work of God are not to be rash or self-confident or selfish. Never is their example or influence to strengthen evil. The Lord has not given men or women liberty to advance ideas that will bring commonness into His work, removing the sacredness that should ever surround it. God’s work is to become increasingly sacred to His people. In every way we are to magnify the exalted character of the truth. Those who have been set as guardians of the work of God in our institutions are ever to make the will and way of God prominent. The health of the general work depends upon the faithfulness of the men appointed to carry out the will of God in the churches.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 9, p. 264. 

The Lord works in no haphazard way. Seek Him most earnestly in prayer. He will impress the mind, and will give tongue and utterance. The people of God are to be educated not to trust in human inventions and uncertain tests as a means of learning God’s will concerning them. Satan and his agencies are always ready to step into any opening to be found that will lead souls away from the pure principles of the Word of God. The people who are led and taught of God will give no place to devisings for which there is not a “Thus saith the Lord.”—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 6, p. 1054.  

The will of God is expressed in the precepts of His holy law, and the principles of this law are the principles of heaven. The angels of heaven attain unto no higher knowledge than to know the will of God, and to do His will is the highest service that can engage their powers. 

But in heaven, service is not rendered in the spirit of legality. When Satan rebelled against the law of Jehovah, the thought that there was a law came to the angels almost as an awakening to something unthought of. In their ministry the angels are not as servants, but as sons. There is perfect unity between them and their Creator. Obedience is to them no drudgery. Love for God makes their service a joy. So in every soul wherein Christ, the hope of glory, dwells, His words are re-echoed, “I delight to do Thy will, O My God: yea, Thy law is within My heart.” Psalm 40:8.—_Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, p. 109. 

Our finite will must be brought into submission to the will of the Infinite; the human will must be blended with the divine. This will bring the Holy Spirit to our aid; and every conquest will tend to the recovery of God’s purchased possession, to the restoration of His image in the soul. 

The Lord Jesus acts through the Holy Spirit; for it is His representative. Through it He infuses spiritual life into the soul, quickening its energies for good, cleansing it from moral defilement, and giving it a fitness for His kingdom. Jesus has large blessings to bestow, rich gifts to distribute among men. He is the wonderful Counselor, infinite in wisdom and strength; and if we will acknowledge the power of His Spirit, and submit to be molded by it, we shall stand complete in Him. What a thought is this!—_Messages to Young People_, p. 55. 