---
title:  The Living Word of God
date:  29/03/2020
---

The most important words spoken are often the last words a person utters. Moses, the writer of the first five foundational books of the Bible, sings a song to the people just before his death (Deut. 31:30– 32:43).

`Read Deuteronomy 32:45–47. How does Moses describe the Word of God and its power in the lives of the Hebrews on the verge of entering the Promised Land?`

Among the last words of Moses is a strong exhortation. By setting their hearts on the words that God has spoken to them through him, Moses wanted to stress to the people that their focus should remain on God and His will for their lives. By teaching these words to their children, each generation would pass on God’s covenant plan of salvation. Notice that they were not to pick and choose which words, but were to observe or obey “all the words of this law” (Deut. 32:46).

At the end of earth’s history, God will have a people who remain faithful to all of Scripture, which means keeping the commandments of God and having the faith of Jesus (Rev. 14:12). These people will remain faithful to the teaching of the Bible, for it not only ensures a richer life on earth but an eternal destiny in the home Jesus prepares for us (John 14:1–3).

`Read John 1:1–5, 14 and John 14:6. What do these texts teach us about Jesus and eternal life? How does the Word made flesh relate to the revelation and inspiration of Scripture?`

Jesus is the focus and aim of all Scripture. His coming in the flesh as the Messiah was a fulfillment of the Old Testament promises. Because He lived, died, and lives again, we have not only the Scriptures confirmed but, even better, the great promise of eternal life in a whole new existence.

`Read again Deuteronomy 32:47. How have you experienced for yourself the truth about how obedience to God’s Word is “not a vain thing” for you? Why is faith in God and obedience to His Word never in vain?`

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"The doctrine of the incarnation of Christ in human flesh is a mystery, “even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations.” It is the great and profound mystery of godliness. “The Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us.” Christ took upon Himself human nature, a nature inferior to His heavenly nature. Nothing so shows the wonderful condescension of God as this. He “so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son.” John presents this wonderful subject with such simplicity that all may grasp the ideas set forth, and be enlightened. {LHU 74.3}

But while God’s Word speaks of the humanity of Christ when upon this earth, it also speaks decidedly regarding His preexistence. The Word existed as a divine being, even as the eternal Son of God, in union and oneness with His Father. From everlasting He was the Mediator of the covenant, the One in whom all nations of the earth, both Jews and Gentiles, if they accepted Him, were to be blessed. “The Word was with God, and the Word was God.” Before men or angels were created, the Word was with God, and was God.... {LHU 74.5}"

By coming to dwell with us, Jesus was to reveal God both to men and to angels. He was the Word of God,—God’s thought made audible. In His prayer for His disciples He says, “I have declared unto them Thy name,”—“merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth,”—“that the love wherewith Thou hast loved Me may be in them, and I in them.” But not alone for His earthborn children was this revelation given. Our little world is the lesson book of the universe. God’s wonderful purpose of grace, the mystery of redeeming love, is the theme into which “angels desire to look,” and it will be their study throughout endless ages. Both the redeemed and the unfallen beings will find in the cross of Christ their science and their song. It will be seen that the glory shining in the face of Jesus is the glory of self-sacrificing love. In the light from Calvary it will be seen that the law of self-renouncing love is the law of life for earth and heaven; that the love which “seeketh not her own” has its source in the heart of God; and that in the meek and lowly One is manifested the character of Him who dwelleth in the light which no man can approach unto. {DA 19.2}

In this day, when we are bidden to call attention to the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus, we see the same enmity as was manifested in the days of Christ. Of the remnant people of God it is written, “The dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.” Revelation 12:17. {DA 398.3}