---
title:  Disagreements in Jerusalem
date:   24/08/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Mark 11:1–11; Zecha­riah 9:9, 10; Mark 11:12–26; Mark 11:27–33; Mark 12:13–27; Mark 12:28–34.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “And when you stand praying, forgive anyone you have anything against. Then your Father in heaven will forgive your sins” (Mark 11:25, NIrV).

Mark records five disagreements between Jesus and the Jewish spiritual leaders in Mark 2 and 3 (read lesson 3). In this week’s lesson, Jesus argues six more times with the Jewish leaders when He arrives in Jerusalem. The first five disagreements happen at the beginning of Jesus’ work on earth. The last six disagreements happen at the end of Jesus’ work on earth. All of the disagreements teach us important lessons about the Christian life.

The Jewish leaders come to argue and fight with Jesus. But they never win. This week, we will study why people fight against God. We also will learn what Christians can do to help remove the feelings and ideas from people’s hearts that separate them from God. These feelings and ideas keep people from following Jesus.

In Mark 11, Jesus goes to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover feast, which happens between the end of March and the beginning of April. Mark 11–16 tells us the story about that time. The first 10 chapters of Mark cover about 3½ years of Jesus’ life. But the last 6 chapters cover only a little more than a week! Mark spends so much time writing about this time in Jesus’ life because he wants us to understand that this time is very important.