---
title:  Living as Jesus Lived
date:   25/08/2024
---

`Read Mark 11:1–11 and Zechariah 9:9, 10. What do these verses talk about?`

Half of this story is about how Jesus sends two of His followers to a nearby village to get a donkey for Him to ride into Jerusalem. Why does Mark spend so much time telling this story about the donkey?

The answer has two parts. First, this story shows us that Jesus is a powerful prophet or special messenger. Second, Jesus’ coming to Jerusalem is part of God’s plan. We can read about this plan in Zechariah 9:9, 10. Zechariah 9:9, 10 talks about the king who rides into Jerusalem on a donkey. These verses help us remember the time that Solomon entered Jerusalem on a donkey, too (1 Kings 1:32–48). At that time, Adonijah, Solomon’s brother, tried to steal the throne for himself. But David commanded the people to make Solomon the king right away.

“500 years before Jesus was born, the prophet Zechariah told about the coming of the King to Jerusalem. Now this special message was about to happen. For so long, Jesus refused to allow people to honor Him as a king. But now Jesus comes to Jerusalem as the promised King. He is the One who will sit on David’s throne.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 569, adapted.

Jerusalem is built on hills that are about 2,400 feet (740 meters) tall. In Jesus’ day, about 40,000 to 50,000 people lived in the city. But more people came to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover feast in the spring. The city covered only about 250 acres of land. The temple hill covered 37 of those acres. So, the beautiful temple was the most impor­tant part of the city of Jerusalem.

Jesus entered Jerusalem from the east. He rode down from the Mount of Olives. Then He may have entered the Golden Gate and gone up to the temple. Everyone in the city was excited about Jesus’ coming. A crowd followed Jesus and shouted, “Hosanna.” This word first meant “save now.” Later, people used the word to mean “praise to God.”

The time for keeping secrets was over. Now Jesus enters Jerusalem in a way that shows everyone that He is their King. Jesus enters the temple and leaves because the time is late. Then Jesus and His Twelve Followers go to Bethany. The exciting day ends with Jesus’ leaving the city. But tomorrow will be different.