---
title:  A Dead Tree and a Clean Temple
date:   26/08/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 11:12–26. What happens in this story? What lesson does the dead tree teach us?`

In the morning, on the way from Bethany to Jerusalem, Jesus was hungry. Bethany was about two miles away from Jerusalem. Jesus saw a fig tree covered with leaves. He went to pick some fruit. Jesus was not stealing. Old Testament law allowed a hungry person to eat food from a neighbor’s field or fruit trees (Leviticus 19:9; Leviticus 23:22; Deuteronomy 23:25). But Jesus saw no fruit on the tree. So, He said to the tree, “ ‘People will never eat fruit from you again’ ” (Mark 11:14, ERV). We may think that Jesus’ actions and words in this story are strange. What happens next is even more surprising.

The next part of the story may have happened in the Court of the Gentiles. Gentiles were non-Jews. The Court was a space connected with the temple where the Gentiles were allowed to enter. People bought and sold animal offerings here. Caiaphas, the top Jewish leader, made buying and selling animals legal in this part of the temple. Jesus chases away the sellers from the courts so that people may worship in quiet. Jesus’ action makes the people in charge of the temple very angry. Jesus says the temple is a house of prayer for all people (Isaiah 56:7). All people includes non-Jews. Jesus says that the leaders made the temple the same as a hideout for robbers (Jeremiah 7:11). Then Jesus and His followers leave (Mark 11:19).

The next morning, Jesus goes back to the city with His followers (Mark 11:20–26). On the way there, the followers are surprised to see the fig tree is dead, all the way down to the roots. Jesus explains what happened to the tree. He uses the example of the tree to teach His followers an important lesson about prayer and forgiveness.

In this story, the fig tree is a word picture for the temple. Do you see that Jesus judges the tree but cleans the temple? These two stories about the fig tree and the clean temple are the fourth Sandwich Story (review lesson 3) in the Book of Mark. Now the Jewish leaders make plans to kill Jesus. When Jesus dies on the cross, the animal offerings in the temple will no longer be necessary.

`What things in your life do you need Jesus to clean? How does this cleaning happen?`