---
title:  Who Said You Can Do That?
date:   27/08/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 11:27–33. What did the Jewish leaders say to Jesus? How did Jesus answer?`

The day after Jesus cleans the temple, the Jewish leaders meet Him outside the temple. They ask Him why He chased away the animal sellers the day before. The leaders don’t really want to know the answer. They want to trap Jesus with their question. If Jesus says that God told Him to chase the sellers away, the leaders will say that a carpenter from the country can’t be that powerful. If Jesus says that He had His own reasons for sending the sellers away, the leaders will say He is a fool.

Jesus sees their trap. He says that He will answer their question if they will answer His question. Jesus asks the leaders if John the Baptist’s baptism came from God or from men. Right away, the leaders see that Jesus has trapped them. If the leaders say that John’s baptism came from God, Jesus will say, “Why didn’t you believe John?” The leaders are afraid to say that John’s work wasn’t from God. If they do that, the people will get angry because they loved John. The leaders lie and say they don’t know. So, Jesus now can refuse to answer their question.

`Read the story in Mark 12:1–12. What did Jesus say to the leaders after He refused to answer their question? What does His picture story mean?`

Jesus tells a picture story about a grape garden, an owner, and the workers who rent the field. The story Jesus tells is much the same as the picture story about the grape garden in Isaiah 5. In Isaiah’s story, God accuses Israel of not loving and obeying Him. Everyone who heard Jesus’ picture story understood what He was saying. Jesus’ story is connected to Isaiah’s picture story.

In Jesus’ picture story, the workers refuse to give any fruits from the field to the owner. The workers beat and kill the owner’s servants. Finally, the owner sends his beloved son. The owner expects the workers to respect his son. But they do not. The workers think that if they kill the son, the grape garden will belong to them. This idea is crazy. The workers earn the punishment they get.

Jesus uses this story to warn the Jewish leaders. If they kill Him, then God will punish them.