---
title:  What We Owe to God and Man
date:   28/08/2024
---

`Read the story in Mark 12:13–17. What is happening in this story? What Bible truths does Jesus teach?`

The Jewish leaders want to trap Jesus again. They want a reason to blame Him to the Roman governor or to the people. So, the leaders try to start a fight with Jesus. They ask Him a question about paying taxes. In Jesus’ day, not paying taxes was a crime against the Roman government.

Jesus’ answer is to give to the king of Rome the things that belong to him and to give to God the things that belong to God. This answer saves Jesus from a trap. His answer also teaches an important lesson. We are responsible for paying our taxes and honoring our governments. “Jesus announced that the Jews lived under the protection of the Roman government. So, they should pay what they owed to the government. As long as the government didn’t ask them to do anything that broke God’s law, the people should support the government. The people should live in peace and obey the laws of the land. At the same time, the people must put God first.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 602, adapted.

In Mark 12:18–27, the Jewish leaders ask Jesus about the resur­rection. The resurrection is the time when God will wake people up from the dead at Jesus’ Second Coming. The Sadducees were a group of Jewish spiritual leaders who didn’t believe in the resurrection. The Sadducees tell Jesus a story about seven brothers and one woman. The law of Moses said that if a man died with no sons, his brother must marry the widow. Any children who were born would belong to the dead man (Deuteronomy 25:5–10). Then the children could own the dead man’s land.

The Sadducees ask Jesus whose wife the woman will be in the resurrection. Jesus answers their question in two parts. First, He talks about God’s power to wake up the dead. Then Jesus says we will not marry in heaven. Next, Jesus teaches that the resurrection will happen. Jesus supports this teaching with Exodus 3:1–22. In these verses, God says that He is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Jesus suggests that this verse means that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob will wake up from the dead. They can’t stay dead if God is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who are, for now, dead.