---
title:  The Most Important Commandment
date:   29/08/2024
---

`Read Mark 12:28–34. What important question does the friendly lawyer ask? What answer does Jesus give?`

In the Book of Mark, most of the Jewish spiritual leaders argue with Jesus and don’t support Him. So, we are surprised when one of the leaders really listens to the answers Jesus gives and likes what he hears. This man has courage to talk with Jesus in front of the other leaders who hate Him. For sure, it would be easy for the lawyer to stay quiet and not let anyone else know that he agrees with Jesus on anything. But this man doesn’t do that.

The lawyer asks Jesus which commandment is the most important. Jesus’ answer is clear and honest: He says the verses from Deuteronomy 6:4, 5. The most important commandment is to love God with all your heart, spirit, mind, and strength. Jesus also tells the lawyer the second most important commandment: this time, Jesus says a verse from Leviticus, which says to love your neighbor the same as yourself (Leviticus 19:18).

Sometimes people wonder how God can command us to love. When we understand the time in which Moses wrote, we can better understand the commands in Leviticus and Deuteronomy. In Old Testament times, people made or wrote contracts or agreements with other people. The word “love” in those days meant that everyone in the contract must keep the contract and do everything they agreed to do. So, the word “love” means that we show our loyalty to God with our actions and our behavior.

The lawyer was honest. He understood what Jesus taught, and he said so. We can imagine in our minds the frowns on the faces of the other Jewish leaders when one of their own agreed with Jesus! No one else was willing or brave enough to do that. Jesus told the lawyer that he was not far from the kingdom of God. But first the lawyer needed to understand who Jesus was and follow Him.

`How do we learn to love God and love our neighbors the same as we love ourselves? How does the Cross help us to love God and our neighbors?`