---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   30/08/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “A Doomed People,” “The Temple Cleansed Again,” and “Controversy,” in _The Desire of Ages_, pages 580–609.

“Jesus announced that the tree will die. Jesus’ own power made that tree. This announcement is a warning to all churches and Christians. No one can live the law of God without serving other people. But many people are selfish. They do not show mercy. Some people think they are excellent Christians. But they don’t understand what it means to serve God. They plan and study to please self. They act only to make self happy. They use their time to get what they can only for self. Everything they do in life is for self. They don’t help anyone else. God made them to help and bless other people in every possible way. But self is so big they can’t see anything else. They don’t care about other people at all. The selfish ones who live for self are the same as the fig tree that had no fruit. They are false Christians. They go to church. But they don’t confess their sins or have real faith in God. They don’t obey Him. They say they are Christians, but they don’t serve Him. When Jesus judged the fig tree, He showed that He hated fake Christians. Jesus announces that the worst sinner is less guilty than the Christian who says he serves God but who does not obey Him or honor Him.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 584, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about how Jesus cleaned the temple and what that action meant. What does this cleaning mean for the church? How will Jesus clean His church today?`

`Again and again, Jesus says that God will keep His promises in the Bible. How important is the Bible to our faith? Why must we reject anyone or anything that teaches that the Bible isn’t impor­tant to our faith, to our belief in who God is, and how He acts?`

`As Christians, what do we owe our leaders and our governments? What do we owe God? How does Jesus’ teaching in Mark 12:13–17 help answer this question?`

`Study Bible verses on the resurrection or waking up from the dead. Why is this teaching so important to our faith as Christians?`