---
title: The Power of the Word
date: 29/06/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Mark 4:1–20**

**The Power of the Word**

“We’ve been robbed!” I can still hear the words echoing through my mind. We were far from home on our first mission trip to East Africa. I felt my way through the room in the nighttime darkness with the other missionaries, and together we assessed our losses. All our equipment was gone. Although we were tempted to pack up what was left and catch the next flight home, something urged us not to give up. We traveled to where I was scheduled to preach, but I couldn’t show my PowerPoint presentations as my laptop and projector had been stolen. The robbers had even taken my Bible and sermon notes—hopefully they read them! How could I effectively present the gospel without these tools? Someone handed me a pocket Bible and reassured me that David slew Goliath with a little stone.

It’s when we come to the end of ourselves that God steps in. Equipped with only that borrowed Bible, but filled with God’s Spirit, I stood up night after night to proclaim the gospel. By God’s grace, many precious people turned to Jesus and dedicated themselves to Him through baptism. This experience showed me that when we simply trust in God’s Word and depend on Him, He will fulfill His promises. God declares, “So shall My word be that goes forth from my mouth; It shall not return to Me void, But it shall accomplish what I please, And it shall prosper in the thing for which I sent it” (Isa. 55:11).

In our first lesson, we will study the parable of a farmer who went out to scatter seed. This story illustrates how different people react to God’s Word when it reaches them. We will discover the power of His Word, how it can impact our lives, and how we can become receptive to Jesus’ teachings.

#### inScribe

Write out Mark 4:1–20 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 1–9. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `