---
title: Discerning More than a Story
date: 30/06/2024
---

#### inGest

Imagine the scene: Jesus surveying the throng that gathered to hear Him teach. Priests and peasants, young and old, merchants and craftsmen—all had come to listen to the popular young Rabbi. As the people pressed in, Jesus got into a boat and asked His disciples to sail a little way from the shore so He could better address the multitude.

As Jesus taught, He drew lessons from scenes that were familiar to His audience. A man scattering seed in his field was a common sight in the surrounding plains and hills. Everyone knew the importance of the seed falling on fertile ground so it would sprout and bear fruit. However, not everyone present was aware that Jesus’ very words were a type of seed that was even then landing in different soils.

Later that day, the disciples questioned Jesus, seeking to understand the story He had told:

But when He was alone, those around Him with the twelve asked Him about the parable. And He said to them, “To you it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God; but to those who are outside, all things come in parables, so that ‘Seeing they may see and not perceive, And hearing they may hear and not understand; Lest they should turn, And their sins be forgiven them’ ” (Mark 4:10–12).

These words seem strange at first glance, but a closer look reveals that Jesus is quoting the book of Isaiah. These words, found in Isaiah 6:9, 10, immediately follow Isaiah’s call to his prophetic ministry. God warned Isaiah that the people would reject the message He would give him. This reaction was not God’s desire but instead reflected the sad reality of what was coming. God wanted to prepare Isaiah for the difficult task before him. In the same way, Jesus was explaining to the disciples that His words and teachings won’t always be well received. The multitude heard a parable, but most would miss its true meaning.

Today, God invites us into His inner circle so His Word can bear fruit in our lives. When we read a passage of Scripture, we should seek to understand both the interpretation and the application of the words. Once we understand the meaning of the text, we should pray for the Holy Spirit to enable us to live out the principles it contains. By carefully reflecting on the Word’s meaning, we open our minds to divine influences. In this way, the seed is not wasted in our hearts. By meditating on Scripture and seeking divine guidance, the seed of God’s Word can take root and bear fruit within us. Jesus’ parables will truly transform every person who receives and cherishes God’s Word.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What are some practical ways we can prepare our hearts to receive God’s Word?`

`What things hinder God’s Word from being fully received and cherished in your heart?`