---
title: Becoming a Sower
date: 03/07/2024
---

#### inVite

Jesus tells us that the words He speaks to us are “spirit and life” (John 6:63). In the parable of the sower, Jesus shows us how His words are like seed. We have already discovered the importance of good soil for the seed to sprout and grow. Along with preparing good soil, we need to believe the seed is good. The seeds in the parable are the Jesus’ words, but in a broader sense, the totality of the Scriptures are God’s words, testifying of Jesus.

The apostle Paul reflected on how the believers in Thessalonica reacted to the Word of God when it was preached to them: “For this reason we also thank God without ceasing, because when you received the word of God which you heard from us, you welcomed it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God, which also effectively works in you who believe” (1 Thess. 2:13). Paul could see fruit in the believers’ lives. The good seed had fallen into good soil. Paul had gone to Thessalonica during his second missionary journey after visiting Philippi, where he and Silas had been beaten and imprisoned. What an encouragement, then, to afterward come to Thessalonica and see people receiving the gospel! You would think things couldn’t get better than Thessalonica, but the next place Paul and Silas visited surpassed even that experience: “Then the brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. When they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews. These were more fair-minded than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness, and searched the Scriptures daily to find out whether these things were so” (Acts 17:10, 11). The believers in Berea not only received the word but also examined it for themselves. We are all called to search Scripture personally instead of only depending on teachers. When we do so, we will come face to face with Jesus, who is at the center of the entire scriptural narrative.

Jesus Himself invites us to go and spread His words. Now we become the sowers equipped with good seed: the Word of God. In the book of Acts, we read about Philip, who preached the Word. Notice the focus of his preaching: “Therefore those who were scattered went everywhere preaching the word. Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ to them” (Acts 8:4, 5). Preaching the Word was preaching Christ! It’s an incredible privilege to share the words of Christ with people. God could use angels, but He wants us to experience the joy of seeing people respond to the gospel.

`What is He saying to you personally through the text of the week?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Why do you think Jesus wants us to take part in sharing the gospel?`

`Prayer Response:`