---
title:  The Role of Stewardship
date:   03/03/2018
---

**Introduction:** Col. 1:16–18

### The Stewardship Triangle

Let us think about stewardship as a triangle, with God at the upper tip and Christians and resources at the base. God is a faithful provider, and He has given us the Holy Spirit to direct our ways and inform our decisions on how to use His gifts wisely. From the Creation week, God gave humanity the responsibility of stewardship (Gen. 1:28).

**“It shall be given away or kept, only as by giving or keeping it I shall most promote the glory of Him to whom I owe all my hopes in time or eternity.”**

However, when sin came, it disrupted the original setup, and humans lost the power that God gave them to be good stewards. Nevertheless, not all was lost when God decided to restore the order through His Son Jesus Christ. Our understanding of stewardship, as followers of Christ, involves the knowledge that He is at the center of our lives and the resources around us.

God gives to us freely, and He wants us to use the resources to advance His kingdom. We can achieve this goal when we accept the cost of discipleship. We choose to follow Christ and obey God’s Word, regardless of the prevailing circumstances. As Christian disciples, we experience a change of heart and mind in order to commit ourselves to the Lord.

Christian stewardship is part of a reformed way of life in which we recognize God as the source of our lives, freedom, and everything that we possess. It goes beyond responsible use of material and human resources. It surpasses generous giving of our talents, time, or treasure. It has the power to reconstruct our understanding of our way of life and help us abide by what the Giver of life and resources wants us to do.

What we can do as Christian stewards is to receive God’s gifts, use them responsibly, share them lovingly, and return them to God to advance His kingdom. David Livingstone once said, “I place no value on anything I have or may possess, except in relation to the kingdom of God. If anything will advance the interests of the kingdom, it shall be given away or kept, only as by giving or keeping it I shall most promote the glory of Him to whom I owe all my hopes in time or eternity.”*

This week, we shall learn more about the role of stewardship in our lives as Christians.

<sub>*David Livingstone, quoted in “Stewardship,” Sermon Illustrations, accessed October 17, 2016, http://www.sermonillustrations.com/a-z/s/stewardship.htm.</sub>

_Mark Gift, Nairobi, Kenya_

