---
title:  Stewardship in a Bigger Picture
date:   04/03/2018
---

**Evidence:** Rev. 14:7

It is important for Christians to know that stewardship goes beyond the personal life. The psalmist discovered this truth many years ago and wrote, “The earth is the Lord’s and everything in it, / the world, and all who live in it; / for he founded it on the seas / and established it on the waters” (Ps. 24:1, 2, NIV).

God, the author of stewardship, is holy and faithful. He transfers that quality to those who choose to worship Him in spirit and truth (John 4:24). Through Jesus Christ, we come to know the holiness and faithfulness of God. In the Bible, Paul writes to Timothy that God has manifested His holiness through Jesus Christ, “who has destroyed death and has brought life and immortality to light through the gospel” (2 Tim. 1:10, NIV).

**Our giving should never be based on how much God wants us to give but on how much He wants us to keep.**

When we recognize that God is the owner of all that we have, including our lives, we are able to manage the resources according to His vision and values. This brings to mind the fact that the relationship we have with the resources and possessions does not depend on ownership. Instead, we are just stewards of the resources and possessions at our disposal. As followers of Christ, we should look at stewardship from that perspective.

When that happens, we shall experience a change in how we view the resources we have. We shall see income as a responsibility—a means to an end. We shall realize that our possessions should not define us, but we should use them to advance the cause of the Giver. Our spending should be based not on what we can afford but on whether what we spend money for honors God. Our giving should never be based on how much God wants us to give but on how much He wants us to keep.

Christ is our template for holy and faithful giving (see Heb. 4:14–16). Our role as stewards in this era is to follow His example in everything we do and say. In Him, we see what God wants us to do as faithful stewards. His overall life is a lesson that stewardship goes beyond living on a budget and returning 10 percent of our income and giving offerings. While they are part of the Christian lifestyle, doing that alone does not qualify us to be faithful Christian stewards.

**REACT**

`How does a Christian understanding of stewardship help us become new creations?`

_Jayne Oreso, Nairobi, Kenya_

