---
title:  Inside Christian Stewardship
date:   05/03/2018
---

**Logos:** Gen. 6:13–18; Matt. 24:37; Mark 10:45; John 14:6; 17:17; 2 Cor. 6:1–4; Phil. 4:13; 3 John 3; Rev. 14:6–12 

**Christ Is the Author of Stewardship (Mark 10:45; 2 Cor. 5:17; Phil. 2:9–11)**

Living as Christians demands that we follow the example of Christ. From what we say and do to how we live, Christ should be our reference point. That drives home the point that stewardship is about our lifestyle as Christians. It is possible to win souls to Christ through stewardship. This depends on how we relate to people within and outside our church, what we eat and drink, the activities in which we indulge, and many more factors.

**The messages of the three angels provide a basis on which every Christian steward should operate.**

Paul’s letter to the Philippians confirms that Christ humbled Himself to endure pain and suffering so humanity could be reconciled to God. Christ is the bridge we follow to the kingdom of God. Therefore, we should submit to Him as our Lord and Savior in everything we do. The role of stewardship in our lives is to help us recognize Christ’s work in us and use our possessions and resources to exalt and make Him shine in our lives. This is in line with what King Solomon did when he spent a great deal of resources to build and furnish God’s temple (1 Kings 7:1–51).

The first step in Christian stewardship is to accept Christ in our lives. This can help us see the world and ourselves from a different perspective. We can manage our time and talents in a different way and utilize our resources to advance Christ’s cause. In essence, Christian stewardship is a reflection of servant leadership, in which Christ is our role model (see Mark 10:45).

**Walking in Truth as Stewards (John 14:6; 17:17; 3 John 3)**

Stewardship is about being truthful. In Acts 5:1–11, Ananias and Sapphira died for being untruthful to God. This should be a lesson to all Christians that God sees our hearts. In many instances, we lie to God about how we spend our time and how we manage other resources at our disposal.

In order to maintain our title as Christian stewards, we must walk in truth, and Christ is our rationale for truth. The Bible confirms that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life (John 14:6). Consequently, walking in truth as Christian stewards means following Christ. John emphasized the point when he wrote, “For I rejoiced greatly when brethren came and testified of the truth that is in you, even as you walk in the truth” (3 John 3, NKJV).

Even though John addressed the letter to a particular elder, the lesson we derive from the letter is that walking in truth is still as important today as it was during the time of the apostle John. In a prayer for His disciples, Christ mentioned that His disciples, after knowing Him, came to know that everything belongs to God. Disciples are stewards, and their lifestyles and actions should lead others to Christ.

**A War ning to Heed (Gen. 6:13–18; Matt. 24:37; 2 Cor. 6:1–4; Rev. 14:6–12)**

God has always unveiled His promises to those who keep His commandments. In Revelation 14:6–12, the message is clear, as delivered by the three angels. The first angel speaks about spreading the everlasting gospel of Christ. That is one of the prime objectives of Christian stewards. With our time, knowledge, skills, and other resources at hand, God looks upon us to spread the good news about His kingdom to places it has not reached. The second angel warns about the destruction of a sinful kingdom. This happens when the gospel reaches every tribe, race, and nation. The wickedness of Babylon, which the revelator talks about in this passage, reflects the sinful situation of our world.

The third angel sounds a warning for people never to indulge in anything that lowers the dignity of the Lord in any way. If after hearing the messages of the first and second angels, we persist in idolatry and share in the sinful nature of the world, then we face the wrath of God.

The messages of the three angels provide a basis on which every Christian steward should operate. If we love God, we shall keep His commandments and spread His love across the world. That is why the third angel concludes, “Here is the patience of the saints; here are those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus” (Rev. 14:12, NKJV).

**Christian Stewards Embrace Holiness (Heb. 9:4; 1 Pet. 1:15, 16)**

Our Father in heaven, the Owner of all providences, is holy (see Isa. 5:16). He wants us to be holy so that we can share in His kingdom. With the sinful nature that we possess, we cannot attain the level of holiness that God has. However, through the salvation that life in Christ brings, we can be partakers of God’s holiness.

Until we allow Christ to rule over our lives, we cannot stand as holy people before God. Our ability to put on a new life in Christ enables us to shine as Christian stewards. Sin tarnishes our Christian image. Upon accepting Christ into our lives, we are able to recover from the influence of sin to the light of redemption that Christ brings. As the Bible says, the blood of Christ is able to cleanse us from dead works to serve the living God (Heb. 9:14).

When we embrace the principle of holiness, we can say with courage that everything is possible through Christ who strengthens us (Phil. 4:13). That should be the goal of every Christian steward today.

**REACT**

`1. What does it mean to “walk in truth” in relation to stewardship?`

`2. How do the three angels’ messages help us understand our role as Christian stewards?`

`3. Why can’t we be good stewards without Christ at the center of everything we do?`

_Tony Philip Oreso, Nairobi, Kenya_

