---
title:  Living as Children of Light
date:   07/03/2018
---

**How-to:** Eph. 4:21–24

Christians in Ephesus had heard about Christ. They learned about Him from their Christian teachers and Paul himself. Now they discovered the truth because Jesus Himself is the truth (John 14:6). Paul tells the Ephesians to leave behind their old way of living because their eyes have been opened. As it happened to the Ephesians, so it is with us today. Every person who has chosen to follow Christ must start a new life with Him.

**Being good means that you are right with your fellow humans; being holy means you are right with God.**

Before you accept Christ, you put yourself at the center of everything you do. Your heart breeds desires, including those that can lead to bad behavior. Sin is like a poison, and a pint of it can destroy what is pure. For this reason, Paul urges Christians to shun the old way of life and embrace a new life in Christ, which comes with a new nature. With it, you can acquire true goodness and a holy way of living, which are major requirements in Christian stewardship. Being good means that you are right with your fellow humans; being holy means you are right with God.

We can become faithful stewards only after accepting a new life in Christ, leaving behind the corrupt sinful nature. We leave behind what pleases us and fill our hearts with what pleases Christ. Here are the qualities of a faithful Christian steward:

A faithful steward lives by God’s Word (John 17:17). The Word of God is truth. It is God’s letter to His beloved children. Upon reading, studying, and living it, we experience its power to change our lives.

A faithful steward depends on Christ (John 14:6). Christ is our example of a good steward. If we depend on Him, we will know how to manage God’s resources wisely in a manner that advances His kingdom.

A faithful steward embraces peace and holiness (Heb. 12:14). The world offers several things that affect our focus on a new life with Christ. However, once we accept Christ as our Savior, He can provide new ways to live a different life in Him. Through the intervention of the Holy Spirit, we can embrace peace with our fellow humans and holiness with God, which He desires for His faithful stewards.

**REACT**

`1. What other characteristics of a faithful steward can you add?`

`2. What is the role of the Scriptures in making us faithful Christian stewards?`

_Samson Oguttu, Dagoretti Corner, Nairobi, Kenya_