---
title:  Stewardship Points Us to Christ
date:   08/03/2018
---

**Opinion:** Phil. 1:21

Everyone has attitude, but our attitudes as Christian stewards should point others to Christ. Paul writes that for him to live is Christ and to die is gain (Phil. 1:21). For most people, death is a devastating experience at every level. However, going by his words, Paul puts himself in a situation in which he benefits from death. What does this mean to the present-day steward? We can learn concrete lessons from Paul’s statement.

**Even by worldly standards, nearly everyone has something to give.**

To begin with, as believers, our focus is on Christ in this life and afterward. We should use our time, talents, and other possessions that God gives us to bless others and build His kingdom.

In the footsteps of Paul, we have a mission to imitate Christ at every level and make Him the Model of our lives. Once we do that, our perspective of stewardship changes. We discover that Christ is supreme and that all things were created by Him and for Him.

Many times, especially when it comes to giving, most people think that only the rich should give. However, before we examine riches to determine our ability to give, we should count our blessings first. Paul knew that as children of the Giver of resources and life, they could not lack what they were to give (1 Tim. 6:17).

Even by worldly standards, nearly everyone has something to give. However, the message of riches goes beyond worldly measures. In 1 Timothy 6:17, Paul looks at the bigger picture—that our Father in heaven owns everything and if we believe in Him, He is able to give us more than we need.

Therefore, when it comes to blessing others with resources or advancing the cause of God in other places, we can always have something to give. The Bible confirms to us, “I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me” (Phil. 4:13, NKJV). With that power in mind, we need not worry about what we can give. Instead, we should accept the fact that we build treasures by what we give.

**REACT**

`1. What are some of the resources God has bestowed upon us that we can use to bless others and advance His cause?`

`2. In addition to using our time, talents, and possessions to advance God’s work, how can we manage them better?`

_Rose Oguttu, Dagoretti Corner, Nairobi, Kenya_