---
title:  Changing Your Clothes and Putting on God’s Sneakers
date:   09/03/2018
---

**Exploration:** Eph. 4:21–24; Matt. 28:18; Ps. 24:1, 2

**CONCLUDE**

We like to think that we are kind, loving, and generous; and many of us are. However, by God’s will, when we give up our own sinful nature and human plans, God can clothe us with a new nature that is a million times better and brighter. This world was created by God and given to us as stewards of the earth. What are we doing to make a difference? How are we glorifying God and acknowledging His magnificence in all we do? When you take a moment to think of what God is offering to you—“a new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness” (Eph. 4:24, NIV)—the possibilities are mind-boggling regarding the ways that we can help others and impact this angry, crazy, chaotic world.

**CONSIDER**

- Planning a worship service that centers on the thought that Christ is our source of life, freedom, and all we possess. The young adults can lead out in praising God for all He has given us.
- Making thank-you and get-well cards and baking goodies to sell. Donate the profits to support a local charity and tell them why you are giving back to them as a community partner.
- Serving breakfast or dinner at a local homeless shelter. Read Mark 10:45. See the people that you are serving as children of God, and therefore, your brothers and sisters. Share the experience with your church and your family.
- Brainstorming a list of ways to walk in truth and planning a youth walking event. We are keepers of the truth, but how do we turn that into action? Involve a younger Sabbath School group and walk together.
- Listing your daily activities for one day. How could they be reordered and prioritized to show that you have accepted the new nature of Christ, as described in Ephesians 4:21–24?

**CONNECT**

Acts 9:36; Matthew 6:1–4

Seventh-day Adventists Believe..., chapter 6, “Creation.”

General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, Stewardship Ministries, http://www.adventiststewardship.com/.

_Stephanie Yamniuk, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada_