---
title:  How Healthy Is Your Relationship With God?
date:   28/03/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Revelation 3:14–17; Revelation 3:20; Genesis 2:7; John 15:1–11; Luke 11:13.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘I loved you as the Father loved me. Now remain [continue] in my love’ ” (John 15:9, ICB).

How healthy is your relationship with God? Is it alive and strong? Do you spend time with God daily? Do you study His Word, the Bible? Do you talk to God as a Friend? If yes, how much time do you spend every day doing these things?

Also, do you talk to people about your friendship with God? Do you tell them it’s the most wonderful relationship in your life? Or is your relationship with God becoming weak? Yes, you read, pray, and study sometimes. But if you are honest, your relationship with God is not really fresh or strong anymore. Or maybe your relationship with God is somewhere between ‘hot’ and ‘cold.’ The Bible has a special name for this hot-and-cold relationship: it is ‘lukewarm’ (read Revelation 3:16, NIrV).

Do you sometimes wonder what the angels in heaven think about us? Maybe they wonder why we don’t love God more? Or maybe the angels wonder why we don’t wish to grow close to God every day? For sure, a friendship with God changes our lives, both now and in the future.

This week, we will think about our relationship with God. Do you want this relationship to get better? If yes, you first must be honest about your relationship with God now. Then you must follow Jesus’ advice in the Bible.