---
title:  How Do We Feel About God Right Now?
date:   29/03/2026
---

What will Jesus say right now if you ask Him to talk about your relationship with Him? Will He say your relationship is strong? Or will He say it was strong in the past? How will Jesus answer if He talks about His people in the end times? In Revelation 3:14–22, Jesus does talk about us. Jesus starts with saying, “ ‘I faithfully [can be trusted to] tell people God’s true message. Everything that God has created [made] starts with me’ ” (Revelation 3:14, EASY). In court, an honest witness doesn’t lie. Jesus is the Witness we can trust. Everything He says is true.

`Read Revelation 3:14–17. In these verses, Jesus talks about His relationship with His people today. In what ways do these verses show you who you really are?`

Jesus’ message is for Christians who live in the end times. Jesus tells us that He knows us. What does He know? He knows that we aren’t ‘hot’ or ‘cold.’ That means that we don’t love Him, and we don’t hate Him. We are ‘lukewarm.’ As ‘lukewarm’ Christians, we don’t think we need to spend much time with God. We spend a little time with God here and there. We think that’s enough. But it’s not. We need God more than we know. We should live for Jesus with our whole hearts. Or we should not live for Him at all. In God’s eyes, that is much better than our being ‘lukewarm.’ Jesus says that He will spit us out of His mouth because we taste so bad. God doesn’t want to do that. So, He asks us to make some important choices right now.

`What is Jesus’ advice to us in Revelation 3:18, 19?`

In Bible times, the word ‘buying’ really meant to trade or exchange stuff. So, Jesus offers us a trade: we give Him our heart that doesn’t care about Him or Bible truth. In exchange, Jesus will give us gold, white clothes, and eye medicine. Jesus wants to make us rich in His eyes. He wants us to wear His perfect obedience, the same as clothes. A living relationship with Him will change everything about us. Jesus offers us everything we need. We need what we don’t have. Jesus has what we need. But we must want to get what He has to give.

`What hope does Revelation 3:18, 19 offer you today?`