---
title:  Correct, Change, And Reward
date:   30/03/2026
---

In Revelation 3:19, Jesus says, “ ‘I correct and punish the people I love. So show that nothing is more important to you than living right. Change your hearts and lives’ ” (ERV). No one can say that Jesus doesn’t care for us or our future. Because Jesus loves us so deeply, He corrects our bad behavior. Jesus isn’t happy when we come to Him only when we need Him. He wants more from us.

Jesus warns us for our own good. Jesus tells us to confess our sins and to stop sinning. We can’t stop sinning if we don’t know we’ve done something wrong. So, Jesus tells us what’s wrong with us: we think we’re rich. But He says, “ ‘You do not know that you are in trouble and need help. You are poor. You are blind. And you have no clothes to wear’ ” (Revelation 3:17, WE).

`Read Revelation 3:20. What does Jesus promise us in this verse? What must we do to get this special gift?`

Revelation 3:20 contains a beautiful symbol: Jesus wants to sit and eat with you and me. Wow! Can you imagine in your mind eating at the same table with Jesus? Jesus wants to enjoy good conversation and good food with us. This symbol shows us a close, loving relationship. Jesus invites us to have this relationship with Him.

Jesus is patient. He knocks at the ‘door’ of your heart. He waits for you to open the door to let Him in. Jesus doesn’t push open the door or force you to talk with Him. Time is short. So, if you feel Jesus knock on your heart, open the ‘door.’ He is waiting to enter your life.

The symbol of Jesus eating a meal with us shows the relationship that Jesus wants us to have with Him. Some day you will meet Jesus face-to-face. You will throw your crown at His feet in deep love for Him. You will praise and sing to Him with the millions of angels and people around God’s throne (Revelation 4:9–11; Revelation 5:11–14). When you try to remember your troubles on earth, you will see that the joys of heaven are worth it. You will not be sorry for the time you spent with Jesus on earth.

`Right now, Jesus knocks at the ‘door’ of your heart. You must choose to open your heart to Him. How can the Cross help you to make that choice?`