---
title:  Everlasting Love
date:   31/03/2026
---

Jesus shows us what is wrong with our hearts. Then Jesus tells us we must win the fight against sin and Satan. “ ‘Everyone who wins against Satan will come to sit with me on my throne where I rule [sit as king]. I won against my enemies. Then I sat down with my Father on his throne. I will give you the same authority [power]’ ” (Revelation 3:21, EASY). For some of us, the fight against self may be the biggest battle of our lives. If we want to win, we must understand we are weak. We must accept Jesus’ warning. We must confess our sins. Then we must wear Jesus’ life of perfect obedience, the same as clothes. We also must ask Jesus to heal our eyes. Then we may really see our sin.

Jesus understands that our hearts are ‘lukewarm.’ So, we don’t love Jesus as we should. Jesus encourages “ ‘everyone who wins against Satan. . . . [just as] I won against my enemies’ ” (Revelation 3:21, EASY). Because Jesus died to save us, He won the fight against sin and its penalty. So, Jesus understands the wars that we must fight against sin. He promises to help us.

Many people in the Bible accepted God’s invitation to be in a relationship with Him. This idea is the most important topic in the whole Bible. When we look at some of these people from Bible times, we can see God working in their lives in different ways and at different times.

**What do these stories teach us about how God works with people at different times and in different places?**

`Genesis 2:7; Genesis 3:8–10`

`Genesis 5:24`

`Genesis 6:13`

`Genesis 12:1–4`

`Exodus 34:29`

As these verses show us, God always wants to be close to His children. God wants to be close to you now. We can read about this idea in Jeremiah 31:3, 4.

God is seeking you. He invites you to come close to Him. He wants to build your relationship with Him. If that’s not happening, we must blame ourselves, not God.

`What things in your life now separate you from God? Ask God for the strength to help you give them up.`