---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   03/04/2026
---

“If we want to stay connected to Jesus, we must ask for the Holy Spirit every day. We must give our lives fully to God. We must serve Him with all our hearts. We must keep our hearts open to God all the time so that He may communicate with us. We must hold tight to Jesus in the same way that the branch connects to the living vine. Then the branch can get sap from the vine all the time. In the same way, we must get from Jesus the things we need. We need His strength and perfect love. We get these things with faith from Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 676, adapted.

“What about the little dry branch that is separated from the vine? How does that dry branch become connected with the vine? How is this branch made alive again? How can it start to get sap from the living vine? The branch must be brought into the closest relationship possible with the vine. Every part of the branch must hold tight to the life-­giving vine. Soon, the life of the vine will become part of the branch. Then the branch will grow fruit, the same as the fruit that grows on the vine.”—Ellen G. White, Manuscript 67, 1897, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think back over your life. Can you think of any experiences you had that caused you to be lukewarm, or hot and cold? Jesus said to them, “ ‘You are in trouble and need help. You are poor. You are blind. And you have no clothes to wear’ ” (Revelation 3:17, WE). What experiences or happenings in your past made you feel close to God in your heart?`

`Ellen G. White says that we need to “ask for the Holy Spirit every day.” How often do you pray for the Holy Spirit? What do you think would change if you asked for the Holy Spirit every day?`

`What do you think would change if we, as a church, prayed for the Holy Spirit more often and with all our hearts?`

`God wants to be close to you in your heart. Be very honest with yourself about your relationship with God. What choices do you need to make to be close with Him in your heart?`