---
title:  Mind Implant or Mind Surgery?
date:  20/01/2026
---

An increasing number of companies around the world are working on technology that combines the processing power of computers with the human brain. In other words, by connecting minds to computers, scientists hope to impact our thoughts through the computers. Although implant use with the human brain may promise positive results, which include helping to manage epilepsy, depression, and Parkinson’s disease, more sinister uses are not difficult to imagine. Mind control cannot be far away.

In some ways, it’s already here. Our mind is like a computer, only far superior. The constant information flow, to which we are daily exposed, “programs” our mind, conditions our thoughts, and guides our actions. When we immerse ourselves in media, the worldly way people think stamps its impression on our minds, and we begin thinking the same way. It’s as if other people’s minds were implanted or melded into ours.

We are, like Jesus, to be “spiritually minded” (Rom. 8:6). “No one knows the things of God except the Spirit of God,” which Paul contrasts with “the spirit of the world” (1 Cor. 2:11, 12, NKJV). Who is our teacher? And what are we learning?

`Read Philippians 2:5. What do you think it means to have the “mind” of Christ?`

Ultimately, we can change our mind, but we can’t change our heart; only God can. The Holy Spirit needs to perform heart surgery on us, wielding the “sword of the Spirit” (Eph. 6:17), the “living and powerful” Word of God, “piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart” (Heb. 4:12, NKJV). Only through the Holy Spirit can we really know ourselves because, by nature, our own heart deceives us (Jer. 17:9). The Hebrew word for “deceitful” (_'aqov_) refers to bumpy ground that trips us up; by extension, it means thoughts that are tortuous, twisted, and crooked. We must be transformed by the “renewing” of our mind in order that we may “prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God” (Rom. 12:2, NKJV).

`Why is it so important that we follow what Paul tells us here: “Finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue and if there is anything praiseworthy—meditate on these things” (Phil. 4:8, NKJV)?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Even the thoughts must be brought into subjection to the will of God, and the feelings under the control of reason and religion. Our imagination was not given us to be allowed to run riot and have its own way, without any effort at restraint and discipline. If the thoughts are wrong, the feelings will be wrong; and the thoughts and feelings combined make up the moral character.\
The power of right thought is more precious than the golden wedge of Ophir. . . . We need to place a high value upon the right control of our thoughts, for such control prepares the mind and soul to labor harmoniously for the Master. It is necessary for our peace and happiness in this life that our thoughts center in Christ. As a man thinketh, so is he. Our improvement in moral purity depends on right thinking and right acting. . . . Evil thoughts destroy the soul. The converting power of God changes the heart, refining and purifying the thoughts. Unless a determined effort is made to keep the thoughts centered on Christ, grace cannot reveal itself in the life. The mind must engage in the spiritual warfare. Every thought must be brought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. All the habits must be brought under God’s control.\
We need a constant sense of the ennobling power of pure thoughts and the damaging influence of evil thoughts. Let us place our thoughts upon holy things. Let them be pure and true, for the only security for any soul is right thinking. We are to use every means that God has placed within our reach for the government and cultivation of our thoughts. We are to bring our minds into harmony with His mind. His truth will sanctify us, body and soul and spirit, and we shall be enabled to rise above temptation.\
The control of the thoughts, in cooperation with the Holy Spirit, will give control of the words. This is true wisdom, and will ensure quietness of mind, contentment, and peace. There will be joy in the contemplation of the riches of the grace of God.—In Heavenly Places, p. 164.

The beginning of yielding to temptation is in the sin of permitting the mind to waver, to be inconsistent in your trust in God. The wicked one is ever watching for a chance to misrepresent God, and to attract the mind to that which is forbidden. If he can, he will fasten the mind upon the things of the world. He will endeavor to excite the emotions, to arouse the passions, to fasten the affections on that which is not for your good; but it is for you to hold every emotion and passion under control, in calm subjection to reason and conscience. Then Satan loses his power to control the mind. The work to which Christ calls us is to the work of progressive conquest over spiritual evil in our characters. Natural tendencies are to be overcome. . . . Appetite and passion must be conquered, and the will must be placed wholly on the side of Christ.—Our High Calling, p. 87.