---
title:  The Mystery of Godliness
date:  22/01/2026
---

A popular verse in the Bible is 1 Corinthians 8:2: “If anyone thinks that he knows anything, he knows nothing yet as he ought to know” (NKJV). There is no subject about which we know everything. We can always learn something more about anything. How much more true is that of eternal realities connected with the Godhead and the Incarnation? Paul frequently refers to Christ’s amazing condescension in becoming a human being. It’s a subject that even eternity will be inadequate to exhaust.

`Read Romans 8:3, Hebrews 2:14–18, and Hebrews 4:15. What charac­terized Jesus’ condescension and His taking of human nature?`

How was it possible for the eternal Son of God, through the operation of the Holy Spirit (see Luke 1:35), to become a divine-human being in Mary’s womb? It boggles the mind how the infinite and eternal could suddenly become a finite human being subject to death. That is the heart of what Paul calls “the mystery of godliness” (1 Tim. 3:16).

In the beautiful hymn of Philippians 2, Paul here elaborates on this condescension more fully in some respects than anywhere else in Scripture.

- “Being in the form of God” (Phil. 2:6). The word _morphē_ (form) refers to His divine nature, that Jesus was equal to the Father (compare John 1:1).
- “Emptied Himself” (Phil. 2:7, NASB). The mysterious nature of Jesus emptying Himself of His divine prerogatives—so that He could become truly human and tempted as we are—is astonishing.
- “He humbled himself” (Phil. 2:8). In taking human nature, Jesus moved from universal supremacy to utter servanthood, the opposite of Lucifer’s aim.
- “Death, even the death of the cross” (Phil. 2:8). There was no more ignominious way to die than the way Jesus chose, having planned it with the Father in the “counsel of peace” (Zech. 6:13), illustrating it beforehand through Moses lifting up the serpent (Num. 21:9, John 3:14), and thus becoming “sin for us . . .  that we might be made the righteousness of God in him” (2 Cor. 5:21).

`How can, and should, focusing on what Jesus did for us at the cross—seeing the Cross as our example of surrender and humility—make us more humble, as well as more submissive to God?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Before this wonderful, priceless gift was bestowed, the whole heavenly universe was mightily stirred in an effort to understand God’s unfathomable love, stirred to awaken in human hearts a gratitude proportionate to the value of the gift. Shall we for whom Christ has given His life, halt between two opinions? Shall we give God only a mite of the powers of our nature? Shall we return only a part of the capabilities and powers lent us by God? Can we do this while we know that He who was Commander of all heaven. . . , realizing the helplessness of the human race, came to this earth in human nature to make it possible for us to unite our humanity to His divinity?\
He became poor that we might come into possession of the heavenly treasure, a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. To rescue the fallen race, He descended from one humiliation to another, until He, the divine-human suffering Christ, was uplifted on the cross, to draw all men unto Him. The Son of God could not have shown greater condescension than He did; He could not have stooped lower.\
This is the mystery of godliness, the mystery which has inspired heavenly agencies so to minister through fallen humanity that in the world an interest will be aroused in the plan of salvation. This is the mystery that has stirred all heaven to unite with man in carrying out God’s great plan for the salvation of a ruined world, that men and women may be led, by the signs in the heavens and in the earth, to prepare for the second coming of our Lord. . . .\
As the Head of the church Christ is authoritatively calling upon every person who claims to believe on Him to follow His example of self-denial and self-sacrifice. . . . They are called upon to rally without delay under the blood-stained banner of Christ Jesus. Withholding nothing, they are to make an entire offering for the attainment of eternal, measureless results—the salvation of souls.—That I May Know Him, p. 81.

Christ’s divinity is to be steadfastly maintained. When the Saviour asked His disciples the question, “Whom say ye that I am?” Peter answered, “Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God” (Matthew 16:15, 16). Said Christ, “Upon this rock,” not on Peter, but on the Son of God, “I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it” (verse 18).\
Great is the mystery of godliness. There are mysteries in the life of Christ that are to be believed, even though they cannot be explained.—The Upward Look, p. 58.