---
title:  "Moses: The Early Years"
date:   28/06/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 1:1–7; Genesis 37:26–28; Exodus 1:9–21; Exodus 2:1–10; Exodus 2:11–25.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The people of Israel were sad in their spirit because of being servants. They cried for help. And because of their hard work their cry went up to God. God heard their crying and remembered His agreement with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. God saw the people of Israel and He cared about them” (Exodus 2:23–25, NLV).

The book of Exodus is filled with stories about people who were forced to do hard work. These people, the Hebrews, were powerless. The Egyptians didn’t think the Hebrews were very important. So, the Egyptians hurt the Hebrews and were mean to them. The Egyptians used the Hebrews to do work that wasn’t fair. The Egyptians made the Hebrews their slaves. Today, there are people everywhere who don’t have anyone to support, protect, or help them. These people feel that no one remembers them or cares. They are forced to live as slaves. These same people today can feel hope when they read the book of Exodus, because the same God who saved the Hebrew people can save them, too.

The book of Exodus talks about the hard times that are part of life. Everyone can feel hope when they read about how God saves His suffering people. God hears our cries, sees our tears, and comes to help. God helps the people who trust in Him. With faith, we must accept God’s offer of help. The book of Exodus shows us what Jesus will do for us all. He will lead us to the “Promised Land.”