---
title:  God’s People In Egypt
date:   29/06/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The book of Exodus is named the “shemot” in the Hebrew language. “Shemot” means “names” in English. The book of Exodus starts with these words: “When Jacob (Israel) went to Egypt, his sons and their families went with him. Here are the names of those sons” (Exodus 1:1, ERV). Next, we read the names of Jacob’s family.

`Read Exodus 1:1–7. What important Bible truth do these verses teach us?`

The book of Exodus starts with information that helps us remember God’s promise to bless Jacob. When Jacob and his family moved to Egypt, they were only 70 people (Genesis 46:27; Exodus 1:5). “But the Israelites had many children, and their number grew until the country of Egypt was filled with them” (Exodus 1:7, ERV). At the time that the Israelites left Egypt, “there were about 600,000 men old enough to go into battle. The women and children went with them” (Exodus 12:37, NIrV).

`Read Exodus 1:8–11. How was life in Egypt for the Israelites before Moses led them out of the country?`

The book of Exodus tells us Israel’s time in Egypt was hard and unhappy. The story starts with the Egyptians making the Israelites their slaves. The Egyptians forced the Israelites to work hard. The Egyptians were mean to the Israelites. The book of Exodus ends with God in the Holy Tent at the center of the Israelite camp (read Exodus 40). The rest of the book of Exodus shows how God fights for His people and wins. God saves His people from slavery in Egypt. He opens the Red Sea. He beats the strongest army at that time. We see God win the fight against evil.

The story tells us that the more the Egyptians forced the Israelites to work hard, “the more they grew” in number (Exodus 1:12, ERV). What lesson does this part of the story teach us? It teaches us that God is in control. He will save His people, even when we feel we have no hope.

`A new king controlled Egypt. This king didn’t respect Joseph or what he did for Egypt in the past. How does this story help us understand that good times can end fast and that life may not always be easy?`