---
title:  "Hebrew History: From Joseph To Moses"
date:   30/06/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jacob’s family left Canaan after a terrible famine or food shortage (Genesis 46). When the family arrived in Egypt, the Egyptian king was friendly and nice to the Hebrews because of Joseph and everything he did for the Egyptians.

“Pharaoh [the king of Egypt] said to Joseph, ‘I now make you governor over all of Egypt.’ Then Pharaoh gave his special ring to Joseph. The royal seal [the king’s special stamp] was on this ring. Pharaoh also gave Joseph a nice linen robe [clothes] and put a gold chain around his neck. Then he [Pharaoh] told Joseph to ride in his second chariot [war wagon]. Pharaoh’s officials [Egyptian leaders] said, “ ‘Let him be the governor over the whole land of Egypt!’ ” (Genesis 41:41–43, ERV).

`What was the secret to Joseph’s success in Egypt after arriving as a slave? Read Genesis 37:26–28 and Genesis 39:2, 21 for the answer.`

The new king didn’t respect or honor Joseph or how he helped Egypt in the past (Exodus 1:8). This new king was Ahmose (1580 b.c. b.c.–1546 b.c.b.c.) Next, Amenhotep the First became king (1553 b.c. b.c.–1532 b.c.b.c.). Amenhotep the First was afraid of the Israelites. So, he forced them to work hard and to do jobs that weren’t fair. Later, Thutmose the First (1532 b.c.b.c.–1514 b.c. b.c.) ordered all the Hebrew male children to be killed. Thutmose’s daughter was Hatshepsut (1504  b.c.b.c.–1482 b.c. b.c.). Hatshepsut was the princess who adopted Moses to be her son. Thutmose the Third (1504 b.c. b.c.–1450 b.c. b.c.) for some time was coleader with Hatshepsut. Thutmose the Third was the pharaoh during the Exodus or the time when Israel escaped from Egypt.

We believe the Exodus happened in March 1450 b.c.  b.c. (Read the following verses to learn more about the Exodus: Genesis 15:13–16; Exodus 12:40, 41; Judges 11:26; and 1 King 6:1. Also read Acts 7:6 and Galatians 3:16, 17.)

Exodus 1 covers a long period in Israel’s history: from Joseph’s time to Pharaoh’s order to kill the Hebrew baby boys. While some people disagree about the exact number of years that things happened, what matters most is that God remembered His people. Even when bad things happen, God is always there. We can trust Him to help us, too.