---
title:  The Hebrew Nurses
date:   01/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Exodus 1, we learn that the Jews moved to Egypt. After a time of amazing success and peace, the Israelites became slaves. For sure, many Hebrews felt hopeless because of their suffering. But God didn’t leave His people alone without any help. For sure, God’s people, at times, felt that He abandoned them. But when they suffered, God came to help with His mighty strength. Our Lord encourages His followers in all ages and times with these words: “ ‘Call to me in times of trouble. I will save you, and you will honor me’ ” (Psalm 50:15, ICB).

`What important work did the loyal midwives do? A midwife is a special nurse who helps women during childbirth. Why did God include their stories in the Bible? Read Exodus 1:9–21 for the answers.`

Do you notice that the book of Exodus doesn’t tell us the names of any of the Egyptian kings? The Bible names them only pharaoh, which means “king.” The Egyptians believed that pharaoh was a god on earth and the son of the sun god, Ra (or the god Osiris or Horus). The Egyptians believed that Ra was the most powerful Egyptian god, because he was the sun god.

But this “god” wasn’t powerful enough to force the midwives to kill the Hebrew baby boys. The Bible tells us the names of the two midwives: Shiphrah and Puah (Exodus 1:15). These women honored and respected the Lord. Pharaoh’s evil command didn’t scare them into obedience because they respected God more than the orders of a human king (also read Acts 5:29). So, God blessed Shiphrah and Puah with large families of their own. This story is a powerful story about being loyal to God. These women may not have been Bible experts. But they knew what was right. More than that, they chose to do the right thing.

When Pharaoh saw that his evil plan failed, he commanded the Egyptians to kill all the male Hebrew babies. Pharaoh ordered the Egyptians to throw the babies in the Nile River as an offering to Hapi, the god of the river. Pharaoh gave this order to defeat the Israelites in two ways: (1) he wanted to kill all the male Hebrew babies. And (2) he wanted the Hebrew women to become part of the Egyptian people and have only Egyptian babies. Then the Hebrews would no longer be a danger to the Egyptians.