---
title:  Moses Is Born
date:   02/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 2:1–10. What did God do to protect Moses when he was born?`

Moses’ story is so exciting because he lived during the time that the famous 18th royal family controlled Egypt. One king during this time was Thutmose the Third. Thutmose is one of the most famous pharaohs or kings in ancient Egypt.

Moses was born at a time when the king wanted all Hebrew baby boys to die (read Exodus 1:22). At the same time, Moses was a “beautiful” baby (Exodus 2:2, ERV). The word written as “beautiful” in this verse comes from the Hebrew word “tob.” “Tob” is more than outer beauty. This word is used to describe everything God made in the book of Genesis. God announced that everything He made was “good” or “very good” (Genesis 1:4, 10, 31).

Moses is the “good” child who will lead the Hebrews out of slavery. When Moses was born, who could guess his future? God has a special plan for this baby’s life. God will use this “tob” (good) baby to keep His promise to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. God promised them hundreds of years before that He would give their future children the Promised Land (Exodus 2:24, 25).

Until that time, the Egyptian princess Hatshepsut adopted Moses as her son. Part of Moses’ name means “son of” or “born from.” We see this same meaning in the names of Ah-mose (“son of Akh”) or Thut-mose (“son of Thoth”). In the Hebrew language, Moses’ name is Mosheh, which means “to draw or pull out.” The princess Hatshepsut saved Moses’ life when she drew or pulled him out of the river.

We know only a few things about Moses’ early life. After Hatshepsut saved and adopted Moses, he lived for 12 years with his real family (Exodus 2:7–9; also read Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 244). Then Moses got the best Egyptian education to get him ready to be the next king of Egypt (Patriarchs and Prophets, page 245). But the most important education Moses got was not from Egypt. His best education was about God’s truth.

`How much are you learning that is, in the end, useless for what really matters?`