---
title:  A Change Of Plans
date:   03/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What happened to Moses that changed his whole future? What lessons can we learn from this story? Read Exodus 2:11–25 for the answers.`

What will Moses do? Will he follow the pleasures of Egypt? Or will he join his people in their suffering? Soon something happened that forced him to decide: he killed an Egyptian man.

“When Pharaoh heard about what had happened, he tried to kill Moses. But Moses escaped from Pharaoh and went to live in Midian. There he sat down by a well” (Exodus 2:15, NIrV). After Moses killed the Egyptian, he had very little choice about what to do. He couldn’t stay in Egypt any longer. Hatshepsut’s plans for Moses to sit on the throne of Egypt and become a “god” came to an end. Moses would serve the true God. For sure, when Moses ran away, he had no idea what the future held for him.

“Soon the Egyptians heard about what Moses did. They told the story to the king and exaggerated what really happened. The Egyptians said that Moses wanted to lead his people against the Egyptians, destroy the government, and then sit on the king’s throne. The Egyptians said that as long as Moses lived, the kingdom wouldn’t be safe. Right away, the king decided that Moses must die. Moses learned about the danger and ran toward Arabia.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 247, adapted.

Moses lived 120 years (Deuteronomy 34:7). His life can be divided into three parts. Each part lasts for 40 years. The first 40 years Moses lived in Egypt. Much of those 40 years, Moses lived in the royal palace. The second 40 years, Moses lived in Jethro’s house in the land of Midian.

The first five books of Moses (and this quarter’s Bible study guide) tell us more about the last 40 years of Moses’ life. These books tell us the story about the special work God gave Israel to do. God wanted Israel to show the people on this earth His love and teach them about His holy law (read Deuteronomy 4:6–8). The people didn’t know God. They worshiped false gods.

`Was it God’s plan for Moses to kill the Egyptian? If not, what does this story teach us about how God can correct any experience and use it to honor His name? How does Romans 8:28 help us understand this important Bible truth?`