---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   04/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Moses,” pages 241–251, in Patriarchs and Prophets. This chapter will give you an important understanding about the Bible verses we studied this week.

The Bible says that “the nurses trusted God, so they did not obey the king’s command. They let all the baby boys live” (Exodus 1:17, ERV). Ellen G. White talks about the midwives and their faith in God. A midwife is a special nurse who helps women during childbirth. “The king of Egypt ordered the midwives to destroy the Hebrew male children when they were born. Their jobs made it easy for the women to do what the king commanded. Satan was behind the king’s order. Satan knew that a savior would be born among the Israelites. So, Satan hoped to destroy God’s plan to save His people. Satan caused the king to destroy the Israelite baby boys. But the midwives respected God. They refused to obey the evil command. The Lord honored their decision. He blessed them both with families of their own.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 242, adapted.

The good news is that God used loyal people to defeat Satan’s evil plans. We live in the land of our enemy, Satan. Jesus named Satan the prince or the leader on this fallen planet (Ephesians 2:2; John 14:30). Satan stole this kingdom from Adam. But when Jesus came to this earth, He beat Satan in His life, and with His death on the cross (Matthew 4:1–11; John 19:30; Hebrews 2:14). Satan is alive and working. But he will be destroyed (John 12:31; John 16:11; Revelation 20:9, 10, 14). In the meantime, God’s mercy can help us win the fight against all our troubles (Philippians 4:13). God’s mercy is our only hope.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Why did God allow the Hebrews to live in Egypt as slaves? Why did God wait so long to save them? Israel suffered for a long time. But remember, the Israelites suffered only as long as they lived. How does this idea help us to understand better the topic of human suffering?`

`Moses did not plan to kill the Egyptians. At the same time, how did Moses’ hotheaded behavior change what happened in the story? What if Moses chose not to kill him? Would that mean that the Hebrews wouldn’t escape Egypt? Explain your answer.`