---
title:  The United States Constitution
date:   24/02/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Daniel 7**

**The United States Constitution**

For many people fleeing oppressive regimes, America has come to symbolize the promise of freedom. The First Amendment of the United States Constitution promises that “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.” The establishment of a state-church is prohibited, and the conscience of individuals to freely exercise their religion is protected. This freedom of religion is not an absolute right, however. Religions that require child sacrifices or other violence are not permitted in the U.S. Religious practice is protected as long as it doesn’t harm others or infringe on their rights.

Though the U.S. is now known for the religious freedom it promises all citizens, the early colonies made no such guarantees. Most of the first thirteen colonies in America had their own state religions. Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New Hampshire were Puritan, for example, and New York, Maryland, and the two Carolinas were Anglican. Many of the colonies required elected officials to hold certain Christian beliefs to be eligible for public service. For example, the 1776 Constitution of Delaware (Article 22) obliged public officials to take the following oath: “I do profess faith in God the Father, and in Jesus Christ His only Son, and in the Holy Ghost, One God, blessed for evermore; and I do acknowledge the holy scriptures of the Old Testament and New Testament to be given by divine inspiration.” Just like the European governments that they had fled from, they had established new state governments that again relied heavily on their respective churches. However, when the colonies realized that a revolution against England would only succeed if they united, they decided to follow Rhode Island’s pattern of not having a federally supported church rather than choosing a favored state-church.

In His wisdom, God at times raised up new nations with new forms of government to provide refuge to oppressed believers. Prophecy has long foretold that God always has a plan to deliver His persecuted church. This week’s lesson will study some of those prophecies, which also reveal the limits God placed on persecution—lines He would not allow persecution to cross.

### inScribe

Write out Daniel 7 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 23–28. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._