---
title:  Persecuting the Saints
date:   25/02/2024
---

### inGest

The bitter hatred and intense persecution Jesus and His apostles faced foreshadowed the level of cruelty the church endured in later centuries. Wealth, power, and influence combined their strength to attack God’s people; kings and popes working together deployed formidable armies against believers who remained loyal to the Bible, seeking to eradicate them. The more the earthly authorities fought against God’s Word, however, the more stunning the success of those who defended God’s Word. This is still true today; opposition serves only to further glorify God, despite the best efforts to overthrow God’s work.

Several biblical prophecies foretold the centuries of church persecution, saying a blasphemous power would persecute God’s people. Daniel 7:8–25 depicted this blasphemous power as a little horn. To begin understanding exactly what this little horn symbolized, we must look at the context. Chapter 7 details the symbolic visions Daniel had while serving under King Belshazzar in Babylon (v. 1). He saw four beasts that represented four successive kingdoms (v. 17), which, in order, are Babylon, Medo-Persia, Greece, and Rome. The fourth beast had ten horns, each of which represented a nation that emerged after the Roman Empire collapsed (vv. 23, 24). As predicted, when that collapse occurred, the former empire was scattered into separate tribes and nations, out of which the little horn appeared and gained authority over the rest (v. 20).

John sees this same entity symbolized by a beast rising out of the sea in Revelation 13:1–10. Both Daniel and John describe this power as the worst persecuting force in history (Dan. 7:21; Rev. 13:7). John also repeats that this persecution would last 3.5 prophetic years (called “times”), 42 months, or 1,260 prophetic days—all the same length of time using ancient Israel’s calendar system (Dan. 7:25; Rev. 12:6, 14; 13:5). (Back then, every month had thirty days, every normal year had twelve months, and leap years had an extra month.) Apocalyptic prophecies are loaded with symbolism, and time periods are no exception. A prophetic day symbolizes a literal year (Num. 14:34; Ezek. 4:6), making the 1,260 prophetic days of persecution 1,260 actual years of persecution.

This period of time began in A.D. 538 when Byzantine Emperor Justinian delivered the pope from the control of the Ostrogoths, a Germanic tribe that had occupied Rome and minimized the authority of the pope. For many of the following 1,260 years, the papacy (i.e., the little horn) focused on securing every possible benefactor. One after the other, wealth, property, schools, libraries, courts, armies, teachers, kings, judges, ambassadors, and generals submitted to Catholicism’s enchanting influence. All these forces combined to extinguish all who dared believe anything that deviated from Catholic doctrine. Because of this near-unanimous support, millions lost their lives during the attempts to enforce state-approved Christianity—attempts such as the Crusades and the Inquisition.

Fortunately, none of this took God by surprise. He had foreseen the medieval persecution, warned His followers of it, and promised that it would come to an end. True to His Word, the papacy’s sovereignty was effectively shattered in A.D. 1798—1,260 years after Justinian, as foretold—when Napoleon’s general Berthier arrested Pope Pius VI. The prophecy of the little horn had been partially fulfilled.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`What are the identifying features of the little horn power?`

`What difference should it make in our lives that God knew all along that the persecution was coming? What does it mean in light of the persecution yet to come?`