---
title:  Surviving Persecution
date:   26/02/2024
---

### inTerpret

Though many believers today live in places where the risk of persecution is low, there are unfortunately a large number who must hide their faith—be baptized and share the gospel in secret for fear of retribution. Converting to Christianity can result in violent backlash from family or, in some cases, punishment from local government authorities. Others live in fear of gangs or threats from the neighborhood or workplace. For the past two thousand years, most of God’s people have lived in difficult circumstances surrounded by dangers. For those who enjoy a safe, peaceful life, the sobering prophecy of the little horn in Daniel 7 should result in empathy for the persecuted (1 Cor. 12:26) and the realization that the Bible’s greatest concerns do not arise from Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, or secularism, but from Christianity.

The Bible shows no favoritism; it’s honest about the good and bad within Christianity. It acknowledges that some of the ugliest tyranny in the world has come from within Christianity, as ironic as that is. Paul highlighted this very fact when he referred to that tyrannical and recurring power as the “son of perdition” (2 Thess. 2:3, 4), a title reserved for Judas, the disciple who betrayed Jesus (John 17:12). Judas was not an outsider; he dwelled within Jesus’ own inner circle. In the same way, the little horn that persecutes God’s people appears within Christianity’s inner circle.

That God did not allow the tribulation to continue indefinitely should greatly encourage believers. He limited the persecution 1,260 years (Dan. 7:25; see inGest for explanation) and cut the most intense periods of adversity short: “And unless those days were shortened, no flesh would be saved; but for the elect’s sake those days will be shortened” (Matt 24:21, 22). The papacy suffered a deadly wound when the pope was arrested by Napoleon Bonaparte’s general during the French Revolution in 1798 (Rev. 13:3). That year, the papacy lost most of the privileges it had enjoyed for the past millennium. It no longer had the power to force its will on anyone.

Since then, God has given His people every possible advantage in the work of spreading the gospel. He has provided church facilities, schools, hospitals, printing presses, and media outlets around the world and has given us the ability to instantly connect and communicate with many of the remotest people groups via the internet. He has given a great many people access to an incredible amount of knowledge on the Bible, history, and science, among many other valuable subjects. God has not withheld the gift of prophecy, either! He promised to send the Holy Spirit (Acts 1:4–8), which in effect means He is physically with us, guiding us every step of the way. What more could we need? The church is no longer a persecuted church in the wilderness; it is one with increased knowledge, increased opportunities, and increased responsibility. Jesus said, “For everyone to whom much is given, from him much will be required” (Luke 12:48). With this in mind and compared to previous generations, do we today use our privileges to their maximum benefit?

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why do you think God gave the prophecies of the little horn and the 1,260 years of persecution?`

`How do you think this generation can better maximize all of the blessings God has given us?`