---
title:  Promises to the Persecuted
date:   28/02/2024
---

### inVite

It’s easy to focus on all the persecution of the past and the future and forget that the central figure in the great controversy narrative is none other than the Son of Man, who will oversee the downfall of every earthly kingdom. We’ve been focusing on Daniel 7, which is more than just a prophecy—it’s a promise! The grand finale of this chapter will be realized when all nations and all languages unite under Christ’s reign. At that time, He will share the reward of His victory with His people: “Then the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people, the saints of the Most High. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey Him’” (Dan. 7:27). What a generous and precious gift! No matter how dismal the circumstances, no matter how unjust and cruel the persecution, those who stand with Jesus can look forward to sharing His victory.

Similar encouraging promises are scattered throughout the New Testament. In his letter to the Romans, Paul assured us (using rhetorical questions) that there are certain things persecutors can never take from their victims: “If God is for us, who can be against us?... Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?... I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels nor principalities nor powers, nor things present nor things to come, nor height nor depth, nor any other created thing, shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord” (Rom. 8:31–39). Nothing, not even death, can take God’s love from a faithful believer. It just isn’t possible!

In the beatitudes, Jesus’ persecuted followers received His final two blessings along with His encouragement: “Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness’ sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for My sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you” (Matt. 5:10–12). Though Jesus promised that others will receive a reward too (Matt. 6:1–18), the only reward He promised would be great is the one for the persecuted. In Revelation, John promised that every believer who suffers the same kind of persecution that Jesus suffered will enjoy a very close connection with their Savior in heaven (7:13–17). Dwelling closely with Jesus is the ultimate reward. What higher honor could we receive?

For those of the world, it’s natural for tribulation to extinguish hope, but for the Christian, it only strengthens it. As Paul said, “We also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces perseverance; and perseverance, character; and character, hope” (Rom 5:3, 4). Though oppressors can take property and life, God’s Word has promised that they can never take love, joy, or hope. The enemy can in no way diminish our reward in heaven.

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`What other biblical promises can we take hope in when persecution comes?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`