---
title:  Inconsistencies and Contradictions
date:   03/02/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Luke 23:1–43**

**Inconsistencies and Contradictions**

The fight for freedom didn’t always progress along a straight path. Even the best advances toward Christ-centered liberty were often compromised by political pressure and personal bias. Many Protestant leaders who freed themselves from Rome’s oppressive authority developed their own harsh policies toward dissenters, effectively becoming oppressors themselves.

In his early writings, Martin Luther envisioned the church to be a voluntary group of believers and was extremely distraught by people who wanted to terrorize Catholic churches and forcibly remove their idols. That said, however, when some of the German princes transferred state support from Roman Catholicism to Lutheranism, Luther embraced the state’s power and used it to deal with perceived religious threats such as the Anabaptists. Though he had much in common with this group of believers, which formed around the same time as Lutheranism, he viewed them as seditious and blasphemous, believing they should be banished from Germany or put to death. The one thing that both Catholic and Lutheran princes agreed on at the 1529 Diet of Spires was that Anabaptists could not be tolerated in Germany. Many Anabaptists died at the hands of both Lutherans and Catholics in the following years. Luther’s teachings freed many people from the superstition’s bondage and Rome’s control, but Luther himself struggled to leave the methods and spirit of the age behind.

Anabaptists have always believed faith can only be voluntary. For this reason, they held firm to adult baptism (not infant baptism), freedom of conscience, and separation of church and state—common teachings today that were quite radical at the time. Ironically, Anabaptists have applied Luther’s principles more consistently and faithfully than the Lutheran church did. Today, we should examine our lives to guard against any inconsistencies and contradictions that might discredit our message. In this week’s lesson, we will discuss the cruelty Jesus suffered at the hands of a church-state alliance and how His followers can avoid the methods that killed their Savior.

### inScribe

Write out Luke 23:1–43 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 1–5. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._