---
title:  Church and State United Against Christ
date:   04/02/2024
---

### inGest

The story of the cross and the preceding trials reveal not only Jesus’ love, sacrifice, and commitment but also the tactics the enemy uses against those who stand up for Christ. Jesus told His disciples what He would endure before His trials began so they would know what to expect from their own persecutions (John 15:18–20). Christians today should study Christ’s death to understand Satan’s strategies since the historic event is an indicator for what we may someday experience.

Jesus’ enemies began with three accusations: He perverted the nation, He forbade His followers to pay taxes to Rome, and He claimed to be Christ, a King (Luke 23:2). The first two were false, the third was true, and all three involved politics. They had to make Jesus appear to be a political offender to secure the condemnation of the civil authority. Pilate, the Roman governor who presided over Judea believed Jesus was innocent from the beginning (vv. 4, 14, 15, 20, 22). He saw through the false grounds for the Jews’ accusations and perceived their envious motivations (Mark 15:10). He wished someone else would take the case, but he ultimately could not evade his responsibility (Luke 23:6–12; John 18:31). He didn’t want to judge religious matters, but the Jews didn’t have the legal authority to kill Jesus without Rome’s consent, which is why they were so persistent (John 18:31). Pilate was afraid to go against the crowd’s demands and lose favor with the religious leaders (Mark 15:15). He was also worried about his own standing with Rome because the Jews threatened to officially accuse him of sedition (John 19:12–16). As he calculated the consequences, Pilate finally caved to their demands. He chose to sacrifice his integrity for the sake of popularity and position. Pilate knew that this situation blurred the line between church and state. If Pilate had respected the distinction between church and state, he could not have put his approval on the death of Jesus (Luke 23:22). The participating parties fully exposed their own hypocrisy when they asked for Barabbas to be released instead of Jesus. Barabbas was a murderer who was well known for stirring up rebellion, the very thing they had accused Jesus of (Luke 23:19).

Thousands of years of church history have shown that the most intense of all persecutions follow the same pattern of blending church and state. To put it simply, Pilate agreed to make the state the persecuting arm of the religious power when he consented to Christ’s execution (Luke 23:23–25). The union of these two domains secured our Lord’s death warrant, and we know it will be at play once again in this earth’s final days.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`How did the religious leaders succeed in gaining control over the secular power (Pilate) during Jesus’ trial?`

`In what ways did Pilate fail in his responsibilities as governor when he consented to Jesus’ death?`