---
title:  The Pattern Persists
date:   05/02/2024
---

### inTerpret

The worst crime ever committed in all human history was undeniably the murder of the innocent Son of God. Because there was a spiritual dimension to His suffering, no one will ever experience that same level of agony. Jesus warned that those who follow in His footsteps will endure the same persecution, going so far as to call it a “cross” (Matt. 10:38), but how much does that cross involve? How closely will the persecution against Christ be replicated against His followers? Well, we know we’ll have to bear the same hatred Jesus did and that this hatred will translate into persecution, for He said, “If the world hates you, you know that it hated Me before it hated you.... If they persecuted Me, they will also persecute you” (John 15:18, 20).

Jesus also predicted that this persecution would involve some collusion between church and state, beginning with the religious powers: “But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to councils and scourge you in their synagogues” (Matt. 10:17). These sparks of persecution would become an inferno once the church successfully weaponized the power of the state: “You will be brought before governors and kings for My sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles” (v. 18). True to His words, the early persecutions in the book of Acts began with opposition from the religious leaders (chap. 4, 5). They initially relied on verbal assaults and engaged in only a small degree of violence, but as the opposition intensified, the violence increased. Religious leaders arrested and imprisoned believers (Acts 8:3), and before long, they were able to harness the power of Rome’s client king to enforce their views and execute offenders (Acts 12:1–4). Acts continues to relate episodes of violence happening wherever Jews gained the local rulers’ support, and by the time it ends, the religious leaders had gained enough support from the empire to keep Paul, the church’s most prominent missionary, imprisoned in Rome.

Revelation, too, relays graphic warnings that the mightiest persecuting power in the history of the world will be an entity that blends church and state. This organization, which will be guilty of killing the most Christian martyrs, is portrayed as a woman riding on a beast (17:1–6). We know that every beast in biblical prophecy represents a nation (Dan. 7:17, 23), and this beast carries a harlot, which represents a corrupted people of God—a corrupt church (Jer. 3:1–3; Hosea 1:2). One of the clearest signs of such a church is when it supplements its lack of power from the Holy Spirit with power from the state. The corrupt church in Revelation matches this description. She’s depicted riding on the beast, not vice versa, because at this point the church has successfully harnessed the state’s power for its own religious agenda. This is important: the state will not control the church; the church will control the state.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How does Jesus’ trial indicate what the persecutors will use against His disciples?`