---
title:  From Persecutor to Persecuted
date:   07/02/2024
---

### inVite

Of all people in the world, Christians should protest the most vehemently against the principles and mistakes responsible for putting Jesus on the cross, yet many so-called Christians have followed the example of those who crucified Christ rather than the precedent set by the One who was crucified. Jesus said His true disciples would be persecuted, never persecutors. For any believer to transition to the role of persecutor would make them a disciple of the dragon rather than of Jesus (Rev. 12:13, 17).

Of course, people can transition the other way, too. Saul is a great example of this since he was known as one of the most zealous persecutors of the early church before becoming one of the most dedicated missionaries and prolific apostolic writers in that very church. In the early part of his life, he made it his personal mission to arrest all the Christians he could find and break up as many of their assemblies as he could. He even facilitated the stoning of the first Christian martyr, Stephen (Acts 8:1–3). Saul’s conversion is a dramatic demonstration of how the Spirit of God can completely transform someone, taking them from persecutor to persecuted. Jesus first confronted Saul about his cruel mission while he was traveling to Damascus, promptly identifying Saul as the persecutor and Himself as the persecuted: “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?... I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting” (Acts 9:4, 5). After Saul met Jesus, he never again used instruments of force in dealing with believers. Jesus changed his character, his techniques, and his name: Saul became Paul, a completely new man who appealed to people’s hearts and minds instead of forcing their bodies. In his testimonies before the Jerusalem mob (Acts 22:1–21) and, later, King Agrippa (Acts 26:1–23), Paul made his conversion from persecutor to persecuted the main evidence that Christ had transformed him.

It’s incredibly ironic that so many Christians who claim to believe in the New Testament go directly against the example of the most prolific author in that very same New Testament. Religious persecutors follow the precedent Paul set before his conversion rather than the one he set after. This amazing story should lead every believer to permanently lay down instruments of force and embrace Christ’s spirit as Paul did.

If we have a true understanding of the cross and a genuine encounter with Christ, we will experience Paul’s type of radical conversion. Jesus’ story transforms the behavior and relationships of all who study His example with an open heart. His ministry is the perfect standard by which we can measure the legitimacy of our professions. Like James said, “For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also” (2:26). A Christianity that leads people to behave like Christ’s enemies is not Christianity. It’s a worthless and hopeless religion. The world needs true Christianity, which is based on a real manifestation of Jesus’ true spirit.

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`How does true conversion affect the way a person views religious liberty?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`