---
title:  Ready to Work
date:   04/11/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Luke 24:1–12; Luke 24:36–49; Acts 1:12–26; Acts 2:1–41; Acts 2:41–47.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Jesus said to them, ‘Remember when I was with you before? I said that everything written about me must happen . . . everything written in the Law of Moses, the books of [written by] the prophets [God’s special messengers], and the Psalms’ ” (Luke 24:44, ERV).

Paul wrote to the Christians in Philippi: “Some [people] preach about Christ [Jesus] because they are jealous and bitter [angry and unhappy]. But others [people] preach about Christ because they want to help. They preach because they have love, and they know that God gave me the work of defending the Good News. But others [people] preach about Christ because they are selfish. Their reason for preaching is wrong. They want to make trouble for me in prison. But I do not care if they make trouble for me. The important thing is that they are preaching about Christ. They should do it for the right reasons. But I am happy even if they do it for wrong reasons. And I will continue to be happy” (Philippians 1:15–18, ICB).

Powerful words! Paul cared only that people preached the Good News. At the same time, our reasons for preaching about Jesus are important. We should preach the Good News and do God’s work because we love God and His truth.

What are some of our reasons for preaching about Jesus? Also, what are some ways that we can get ready to preach the message? To help us answer these questions, we will look at some of the things that happened in the church during New Testament times.