---
title:  To Share The Good News
date:   05/11/2023
---

`When some people heard that Jesus woke up from the dead, what did they do? Read Luke 24:1–12 for the answer.`

Early Sunday morning, some women went to the grave where Jesus was buried after He died. The women had spices with them. The women were on their way to take care of Jesus’ body now that the Sabbath was over. The women expected to find Jesus’ grave shut. They were surprised to see His grave was empty. The women weren’t sure what to do. Then they saw two men in shining clothes and felt afraid. The men had a message for them. The men told the women to remember Jesus’ words about waking up from the dead. Jesus woke up as He said He would. The women were filled with joy at the news. They hurried back to the place where Jesus’ other followers stayed. The women told Jesus’ followers what they saw and heard. The women were so excited. They wanted to share with the men what they learned about Jesus.

Can you imagine in your mind how the women felt? The women had a wonderful experience. But Jesus’ followers said the women were making up stories. The men refused to believe the report. Peter doubted the women’s story, too. He ran to Jesus’ grave to see for himself what happened.

So many of us are the same as Peter. We have a hard time accepting something someone tells us until we go see for ourselves. Peter heard what the women said. But he couldn’t share their joy until later. At first, all Peter saw was an empty grave. “Then he went away, surprised about what had happened” (Luke 24:12, NLV). His experience at the grave was not the same experience that the women had.

As soon as the women heard the news about Jesus, they wanted to share their joy and the wonderful news with other people. We also must let other people know what Jesus has done for us. What better reason do we have for doing God’s work?

Of course, we need a personal experience with God before we can share the Good News about Jesus with other people. Our love for Jesus must be an important part of our work for God. In the end we can’t share with other people what we don’t have, right?

`What are some experiences you have had with God and His love? Why are these times so precious to you? How do they help you share the Good News with other people?`