---
title:  The Reasons For Our Faith And Our Work
date:   06/11/2023
---

`Read Luke 24:36–49. What happened in these verses? Why is this experience so important for Jesus’ followers?`

At first, Jesus’ followers don’t believe He is alive. When they see Jesus, they are filled with fear. They think Jesus is a ghost! Then, Jesus’ followers see that He really is alive. Now they can’t believe what they see because they’re so happy (Luke 24:41)! Have you ever felt that something was too wonderful to be real? This feeling helps us understand what Jesus’ followers felt in the upper room.

What if Jesus left His followers with only this experience of seeing Him? What would happen to their faith after He left them? Maybe their faith would die. Over time, experience can grow weak in our minds. Or maybe Jesus’ followers would start to forget. Worse, maybe they would start to question what they really saw. So, Jesus did more than show His followers His scars and eat fish in front of them. Jesus gave His followers a Bible study. He showed His followers the Bible proof for His work on earth and for His future work in heaven. For sure, the followers had a powerful experience with Jesus. But Jesus wanted to give them reasons from the Bible for their faith.

“Jesus said to them, ‘Remember when I was with you before? I said that everything written about me must happen . . . everything written in the Law of Moses, the books of [written by] the prophets [God’s special messengers], and the Psalms’ ” (Luke 24:44, ERV).

Luke 24:44 gives us a powerful reason for our work: the Bible. Jesus knew He must help His followers trust their experience with Him. His followers needed to understand why He died and what His waking up from the dead really meant. The followers also needed to understand that Jesus’ kingdom was spiritual. They needed to understand that Jesus came to solve the sin problem and to die for us. The Good News about Jesus was about so much more than giving the Jews freedom from Roman control. The Good News showed Jesus’ win against Satan. The Good News is a promise that all evil on this earth will be destroyed. Then God will make the earth new and will  live with His people. Jesus “helped the followers understand” (Luke 24:45, ERV) the promises in the Bible about Him so they could share these Bible truths with other people. We can’t have an experience with Jesus without understanding these promises, too.