---
title:  Waiting And Working For God
date:   07/11/2023
---

Luke 24 ends with Jesus going up in the sky to heaven (Luke 24:50–53). But the story doesn’t end there. Luke continues the story in the book of Acts. Right before Jesus goes to heaven, He gives His followers their work, a promise, and orders. Jesus tells His followers to wait in Jerusalem for God to keep His promise. God promised to pour the Holy Spirit on them (Luke 24:49; also read Acts 1:4–8). The Holy Spirit will help the followers to be powerful witnesses for Jesus in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and other faraway places.

`At this time, Jesus’ followers included about 120 men and women. What were Jesus’ followers doing while they waited? Read Acts 1:12–26 for the answer.`

Jesus told His followers what He wanted them to do: they must be His witnesses and share the Good News about Him with everyone on earth. So, while the followers waited for the Holy Spirit, they got ready for their work in two ways. First, Luke says they asked God for help. They all understood the work Jesus gave them. Each one of them accepted the work. So, they joined together to pray. Luke doesn’t tell us what they prayed about. We can be sure they prayed for wisdom, strength, and courage to do God’s work together. They are a wonderful example for us to follow.

The second thing the followers did while they waited for the Holy Spirit was to get ready to do God’s work. The followers didn’t sit around doing nothing while they waited. They needed someone to replace Judas. Judas sold Jesus to His enemies, who killed Him. Then Judas killed himself. So, now there were only 11 followers and not 12. As the followers waited for the Holy Spirit, they asked God to help them choose the best person to replace Judas. The followers also planned the best way to start doing their work. Peter acted as their leader. None of the other followers questioned Peter’s leadership. Everyone understood that God was leading Peter and them. They trusted God to work among them and help them.

We also wait for God to pour His Holy Spirit on us to finish His work on earth. Let us join together during this time to encourage and help each other (Hebrews 10:24, 25). Let us pray for God to send His Holy Spirit to us. Also, we should be doing everything we can to save lost sinners.