---
title:  The Man You Nailed To The Cross!
date:   08/11/2023
---

Acts 2 tells us about what happened at Pentecost. Pentecost was the time when God poured His Spirit on His followers after Jesus went back to heaven. While the followers prayed, flames from heaven rested on their heads. Then the followers knew that God gave them the Holy Spirit.

`What happened to Jesus’ followers after God poured the Holy Spirit on them at Pentecost? Read Acts 2:1–41 for the answer.`

Jesus’ followers started to speak in other languages.

“The Spirit gave them the ability [skill] to do this [speak languages they didn’t know how to speak before]” (Acts 2:4, NIrV). God gave each person skill and knowledge to help share the Good News with other people. God didn’t give them these blessings to make them fit for heaven or to help them do business in a foreign language. God gave them these gifts to help them do His work. Today, God wants each of His followers to use their personal gifts to help Him do His work, too. The most important thing we can do with these gifts is use them to share Jesus with other people.

When God poured the Holy Spirit on His followers, many people confessed their sins. They said they were sorry for rejecting Jesus. The Jewish leaders were guilty of nailing Jesus to the cross. The people shared in their leaders’ guilt because they did nothing to stop Jesus’ death. Peter reminds the Jews in Jerusalem that they asked the Romans to nail Jesus to the cross. The people understand their guilt. “What Peter said cut the people’s hearts when they heard it. They knew they had done wrong. They said to Peter and the rest of the apostles [leaders and teachers of the New Testament church], ‘Brothers, what shall we do?’ ” (Acts 2:37, WE).

“Peter said to them, ‘Change your hearts and lives and be baptized, each one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ. Then God will forgive your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit’ ” (Acts 2:38, ERV).

Jesus’ followers worked with the Holy Spirit and each other. Together, they preached the Good News that Jesus forgives sins and gives us strength to win the war against sinning. Today, God asks us to share this same message with lost sinners. We must not judge them. That’s not our job. We must tell them about the saving power of Jesus.