---
title:  A Picture Of The Church In Bible Times
date:   09/11/2023
---

`Read Acts 2:41–47. What picture do these verses show us of the New Testament church?`

Acts 2 ends with a beautiful picture of life in the New Testament church. Acts 2:41, ICB, says: “Then those people who accepted what Peter said were baptized. About 3,000 people were added to the number of believers [followers] that day.” This verse doesn’t only tell us about the church’s membership and how much it grew. The words of this verse have a deeper and hidden meaning: the new members became full partners with Jesus’ followers.

One of the most important jobs of the church was to make new followers for Jesus. Jesus’ followers taught new members in three ways. First, Jesus’ followers continued to teach them Bible truth and to fellowship with them. The word “fellowship” in Acts 2:42 (ERV) means full partnership. So, Jesus’ followers worked together fully with new church members to serve God. Jesus’ twelve followers helped to correct false beliefs and helped new members understand their experiences. The new members learned how to live Bible truth because they saw how Jesus’ followers lived their lives.

We should not preach to people about what to do if we don’t also tell them how to do it. The best “sermon” is the way we live our lives. When we see how Jesus’ loyal followers live, we learn how to live for Jesus, too. Paul understood this important rule. So, he told his followers to copy him in the same way that he copied Jesus (1 Corinthians 11:1). When other people see your real experience in Jesus, their lives will be changed for the better.

`Task #1: Think of someone in your life who doesn’t know Jesus or His love. Pray every day for this person to have a personal experience with Jesus.`

`Task #2: Are you sharing Jesus with someone in your life? Look for ways to invite this person to fellowship with other Christians.`