---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   10/11/2023
---

Our work for God must come from our deep love for Him and for other people. We cannot work for Him for any other reason. Thank Jesus for all He does for you. Fill your mind with Bible truth and let it change your life. Then you will have success when you share your faith.

“Our life must be connected with the life of Jesus. We must get our strength from Him every moment of our lives. Jesus is the Bread that came down from heaven. He is the same as a fresh fountain of water that is always giving us many treasures. We must drink this water. If we keep the Lord in our hearts always, we shall have a new experience in our spiritual life. We must praise Him and give Him thanks. Our prayers will become the same as a conversation with God. We will talk with Him the same as with a Friend. God will tell us His secrets. Often, we will feel that Jesus is with us. Our hearts will feel joy when He comes to talk with us as He did with Enoch. When this experience is ours, we will have no pride in our hearts. Everyone will see that we have been with Jesus and learned from Him.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 129, 130.

“A selfish heart can’t grow in spiritual strength or wisdom. Have you accepted Jesus as your personal Savior? Then stop pleasing yourself and live for Jesus. Help other people. Talk about Jesus’ love. Tell other people that He died for them. . . . The Spirit of Jesus is a Spirit of unselfish love. As you work to help other people, you will grow and your heart will fill with Jesus’ love. . . . Your faith will grow strong. So will your beliefs. God will make perfect your love for Him and for other people.”—Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 67, 68, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How do you understand Paul’s words in Philippians 1:15–18? Paul says that some people preach about Jesus with jealous, angry, or selfish feelings in their hearts. How can we make sure we are not guilty of doing the same thing?`

`What is your personal experience with God and His love? If you had to share your story about God’s love with other people, what would your story be?`

`What has been your experience in waiting for the Lord and trusting in His promises? What has your experience taught you about faith?`