---
title:  “It Seemed the Right Thing to Do”
date:  05/07/2025
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 2

**“It Seemed the Right Thing to Do”**

Some years ago, a man named Hugo saw a woman being threatened by a man wielding a knife and jumped in to help. In the process, Hugo was stabbed. Both the attacker and the woman fled, and for the next hour and twenty minutes, Hugo lay bleeding on the sidewalk while over twenty-five people walked by and did nothing. When the paramedics were finally called, Hugo was already dead. What’s your reaction when you see injustice in the world? If you’re just an outside observer or a passerby, are you willing to get involved in someone else’s trouble?

Today, people often use social media to protest events that are far away. Modern people are more likely to grab their smartphones to record an unjust event than to get involved and help. Many people also assume that others will help and that they don’t have personal responsibility when they see something wrong. In Hugo’s case, surveillance videos showed people staring at him and taking pictures. One man rolled him over, exposing his bloody stab wounds, but then walked away. To speak out against injustice as it’s happening or to get directly involved to try to stop it is more than most people are willing to do.

The challenge is to find the right way to respond—to not take the easy route but to follow God. We find Moses in such a situation in this week’s study. He faced an opportunity to step in and try to rectify an injustice. However, in so doing, he implemented his own plans.

Through this story, we continue to see God leading humanity’s affairs while simultaneously allowing them the freedom to make their own decisions. The book of Genesis ends with the story of Joseph, an iconic leader. God worked through Joseph’s weaknesses to prepare him to save his family, along with the Egyptians, from a deadly famine. Exodus introduces Joseph’s counterpart, Moses—another man in a prominent position. He too had faults to overcome and experienced a difficult period of preparation before God could use him to deliver Israel from Egypt.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 2:11–15 from the translation of your choice or write the passage in your own words. You may also outline or mind-map all of Exodus 2.

` `