---
title:  God’s Irony
date:  06/07/2025
---

#### inGest

Pharaoh did his best to eradicate an entire generation of Israelite males. The final command was to throw every newborn male child into the Nile River. In Exodus 2, we find a couple from the tribe of Levi facing this reality. We find out later that they had an older male son, Aaron, who was age three by this time (Exod. 7:7), and at least one older daughter, Miriam, of an undetermined age (15:20).

As in last week’s study, the agent who intended to bring death is instead used by God to bring life. Pharaoh commanded that the infant boys be thrown into the Nile River. Jochebed, Moses’ mother, instead turned to the river as the possible answer to her prayer for her baby son to live. She constructed a floating basket in which to place the quickly growing three-month-old boy and trusted her most treasured possession to the river that was supposed to kill him. When Jochebed left, Moses’ older sister lurked behind the reeds to see how things would turn out. Miriam, herself the older sister of two younger brothers, is described as a “maiden” (2:8). Almah, the word translated as “maiden,” is typically used to describe a young woman of childbearing age. This could be an important point. While she might not have been assigned to slave labor like her parents, she was probably old enough to get in trouble with the authorities for attempting to break Pharaoh’s laws regarding newborn boys.

We don’t know how long this routine continued, but one day their secret was discovered. Pharoah’s daughter and her maidens discovered the hidden basket with baby Moses inside (2:5). Perhaps because the princess was compassionate to the baby, Miriam decided it was worth the risk to speak up, and her quick-thinking reunited mother and child.

God was clearly at work in this infant’s life. In Moses’ early years, he certainly heard the story of how his mother’s and sister’s actions saved him from drowning. Perhaps the story was an indication that God had special plans for his life. Moses knew his life was going to be important. He just had to make sure he was ready when his time came. At the age of forty (Acts 7:22, 23), he thought he had finally found his opportunity when he saw an Egyptian abusing an Israelite slave. Moses was accepted as an Egyptian since he was the Pharoah’s adopted grandson, but on the inside, he was an Israelite. He thought the time to defend his people had come.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 2. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What’s it like to have to wait for something you know is supposed to happen?`

`Is it harder or easier to wait when the one you are waiting on is God?`