---
title:  Should I Do It?
date:  07/07/2025
---

#### inTerpret

While many don’t like getting involved when they see injustice happening, others can’t stand by and do nothing. In reality, that’s how we should all react, especially those who believe in God. The importance of justice is a dominant motif of the Hebrew prophets (e.g., Isa. 61:8; Amos 5:24; Micah 6:8; Zech. 7:8–12).

When Moses saw an Israelite being beaten, he stood up against the injustice. It ended with him killing the Egyptian overseer. At the time, it seemed like the right thing to do. Someone needed to stand up for his people. However, Moses knew his action would not go over well with the Egyptian rulers. Before striking the fatal blow, he “looked this way and that way” (Exod. 2:11). Then, after killing the man, he “hid him in the sand” (v. 12). Clearly, he hoped to keep this killing a secret. His attempts to control the narrative failed, however, and the news spread rapidly.

Moses’ interaction with several fellow Israelites the next day troubled him. “Who made you a prince and a judge over us? Do you intend to kill me as you killed the Egyptian?” (v. 14). Moses hoped that they would recognize that he was their defender and would lead them out of slavery. However, with this pushback from his fellow Israelites, Moses knew he would not be welcomed as a collaborator and that the news would soon reach the Egyptian authorities. So he fled. What seemed like an opportunity to position himself as Israel’s deliverer failed spectacularly. Moses was further from his goals than before. But God did not forsake Moses.

How can we discern in this story when Moses was following God and when he was following his own thoughts and plans? Was it God’s plan for Moses to kill the Egyptian? Did Moses do right when he fled to the land of Midian where he found a wife? After all, Moses may not have left Egypt and found his wife if he hadn’t killed the overseer. In Midian, Moses showed the same desire to protect the young women at the well as he did when protecting the Israelite slave from the Egyptian taskmaster. Was he acting contrary to God’s will that time?

From our limited perspective, we might suggest that Moses wanted to move forward, trusting in his God-given skills. However, trying to discern God’s will is not always easy. Whichever way we choose to look at this story, we can be certain that God was working in Moses’ life. In Midian, God blessed Moses and further prepared him to trust in God alone rather than in his own abilities.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do you feel when you try to do the right thing only for things to fall apart, and you realize maybe you did it for the wrong reason? How can you tell if you’re doing things for the wrong reason?`