---
title:  Depending on Self
date:  09/07/2025
---

#### inVite

Like Moses, Jesus faced opportunities to take matters into His own hands and to depend on His own strength instead of trusting His Father. Each temptation Jesus faced presented a way to bypass the difficult ministry He was called to do. When the devil tempted Jesus to make bread out of stones, he was tempting Him to do things the easy way (Matt. 4:3). Truth be told, it’s not that difficult to justify creating food for yourself when you’re about to die from hunger. This would seem especially true for Jesus, when He knew that He had to stay alive to complete the mission that God had sent Him to earth to accomplish. So, for Jesus, the temptation to create food was a very real one. Like Moses in Egypt, He was tempted to use His abilities to provide a logical solution for the immediate problem. However, Jesus had learned the lesson that Moses in his story still needed to learn: When you have a mission from God, you must not depend on your own abilities. You must wait for God to act and lead.

When Satan tempted Jesus to worship him (Matt. 4:8, 9), Jesus was again placed in a situation where it must have been very tempting to accept Satan’s offer. Jesus knew the suffering that awaited Him. He had read the prophecies in the Hebrew Bible. He knew a life of shame lay before Him in His attempts to fulfill His mission. Gaining the worship of the whole world through an _easier_ route must have been a legitimate temptation. Even though most modern Christians typically portray the temptations as not very serious for Jesus since He’s God, they were truly difficult tests similar to the one Moses faced when he saw the Egyptian beating the Israelite slave.

In addition, at the end of Christ’s earthly ministry, He was enticed by a different means of attempting things on His own. In this temptation, the Gospel accounts do not specifically mention Jesus being tempted by Satan. Rather, we find tucked away in Christ’s pleading prayer to His Father a simple, almost cryptic phrase, “Nevertheless, not as I will” (Matt. 26:39). Here, Jesus revealed that He didn’t want to complete the mission. There must have been another way, an easier way. But He had learned to trust the Father’s plan. He submitted to the Father when He said, “Nevertheless, not as I will, but as You will” (v. 39). Instead of choosing His own way, Jesus yielded to the plan and the timing He received from His Father.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 2 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`In what ways have you encountered an Egyptian master beating his Israelite slave? What’s God calling you to do?`

`Prayer Response:`