---
title:  inTro
date:   19/07/2026
---

**Read This Week’s Passage:** John 15

### The Prince of Preachers

One of the most impactful preachers in church history was Charles Haddon Spurgeon. For thirty-eight years he pastored the New Park Street Chapel, which later became the Metropolitan Tabernacle in London, England. He was a prolific author, astute theologian, skilled teacher, and dynamic preacher who was deemed “The Prince of Preachers.” He was also quite an innovator. Every Sunday, his sermons would be transcribed in shorthand, typed out, and published for people to read. It was the 19th-century equivalent of live streaming. His sermons became one of the best-selling series of writings in history. Today, websites host those sermon manuscripts, and some people have preached and recorded them so others can enjoy them in audio form.

My dad frequently listened to those recordings, and we both deeply appreciated Spurgeon’s down-to-earth yet straight-to-the-heart approach. I remember reading his book The Soul Winner and being struck by his ability to draw powerful teaching points from nearly every story he told. It was a gift—one that gained wide influence.

One story in particular stood out to me. Spurgeon spoke of a young preacher working as a hospital chaplain during the evening hours. One night, there was a train wreck, and someone ran in to announce the tragedy, asking for help in carrying a gurney to transport the injured. The young preacher volunteered and later told Spurgeon that he had taken great interest in the man he helped to carry, frequently visiting him as he recovered in the hospital. Reflecting on this story, Spurgeon commented:

I believe he will always take an interest in that man, because he once felt the weight of him. When you know how to carry a man on your heart, and have felt the burden of his case, you will have his name engraved upon your soul. So you that privately talk to people, you are feeling the weight of souls; and I believe that this is what many regular preachers need to know more of, and then they will preach better.<sup>1</sup>

As you can see, the ability to find spiritual lessons in everyday life is a real blessing and a powerful teaching tool. Jesus, the greatest teacher of all, employed this tool regularly. When speaking to fishermen, He used the language of fishing to communicate truth. When surrounded by nature, He drew lessons from His natural surroundings. He masterfully illustrated that the natural world reveals the love and nature of God.

The Gospels record Jesus using between thirty and fifty parables in His teaching ministry. Interestingly, however, the Gospel of John does not include many parables. Instead, John emphasizes other aspects of Jesus’ instruction, sharing stories that aren’t found in the other Gospels, recording teachings the other Gospels didn’t include, and highlighting Jesus’ claims of divinity. John presents many of the metaphors Jesus used, including longer stories such as the Good Shepherd (John 10:1–16) and shorter illustrations such as childbirth (John 16:21). This week we will unpack one of the most memorable of all of Christ’s parables: the vine and the branches in John 15.

At the close of John 14, Jesus finished His teaching in the upper room and then told His disciples, “Arise, let us go from here” (John 14:31). As the little group walked toward Gethsemane, they passed a vineyard. Once again, Jesus drew important lessons from His surroundings, preparing His disciples to remain grounded and connected to Him as they faced the challenges ahead. This chapter has many gems, and Jesus did a masterful job of balancing the ministry of encouragement with being honest about the magnitude of the trials they were about to encounter.

### inScribe

Make an outline or mind map of John 15. Write out verses 9–17 from the translation of your choice or rewrite it in your own words. What essential truths was Jesus trying to convey to His disciples to help them face a difficult future?

Review your scribed passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [Arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`What special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

---

<sup>1</sup> Charles H. Spurgeon, _The Soul Winner_ (Passmore & Alabaster, 1875).