---
title:  inGest
date:   20/07/2026
---

### He Lifts Us Up

Chapter 15 begins with Jesus emphasizing the essential connection we need to have with Him: He is the true vine, and we are the branches. The branches cannot sustain themselves; they require a source of life that continually nourishes and provides for them. He also explained that the ability of the branches to bear fruit depends on their continually abiding in the vine; they cannot bear fruit if they’re disconnected.

Jesus said in verse 2 that “every branch in Me that does not bear fruit He [the Father] takes away; and every branch that bears fruit He prunes.” The Greek word used for “takes away” here is airo, which is sometimes translated as “to lift up.” In the context of a vineyard, lifting up vines was a common practice. Vinedressers lifted branches lying on the ground to give them better sun exposure and more airflow, which made them healthier and helped them produce more fruit. Today, vinedressers use various methods to hold branches up, tying them to supports like trellises, wires, or even rocks.

This interpretation makes sense within the context of John 15 because the Greek word translated as “pruning” can also be translated as “cleansing.” In both cases, Jesus was speaking in a positive sense: those who do not bear fruit He lifts up to enable them, and those who do bear fruit He cleanses of unnecessary things so they can produce even more fruit. Jesus was alluding to the processes of sanctification and righteousness by faith. He is our power source, and He is rooting for us—not _against_ us.

The goal is to prepare us for fruit-bearing, not to discard the branch. This truth is important to understand because some people assume that if they aren’t currently bearing fruit, God wants to get rid of them. That simply is not true. He wants to help us. The only branches that are ultimately removed are the ones that do not abide in Him (John 15:6).

This truth is encouraging: if we aren’t yet bearing fruit, He will lift us up and help us so that we will bear fruit. He will also cleanse us of the unnecessary so that we can bear more fruit. He is not looking for a reason to cast us aside. However, Jesus made it clear that the real danger is in not abiding in Him. If we refuse to remain in Him, removal becomes inevitable.

**Questions to consider:**

`Have you ever felt like the burden of bearing fruit was on you? Reflect on what that was like and how today’s lesson can help you reframe.`

`What does pruning represent in the parable? What things has God called you to give up so that you can be more productive and fruitful for Him?`