---
title:  inVite
date:   23/07/2026
---

### Abiding in His Love

Jesus assured the disciples that His love for them equals the Father’s love for Him (John 15:9). A greater declaration would be hard to find. It makes sense that the Father loves Jesus; He’s perfect in every way. But to think that Jesus loves you and me with that same purity, passion, and appreciation? He absolutely does! Jesus invites us to abide constantly in His love, to rest confidently in His acceptance and favor. Understanding Christ’s love for us forms the foundation of our service to Him. Those who serve Christ merely out of duty eventually become discouraged and give up, but those who serve Christ in response to His love only deepen their commitment as the pressure of the world increases. His love gives us strength to resist the strongest temptations and endure the worst hardships. His love holds us through the worst storms of life.

Jesus gave us the perfect example of this responsive love. Because He knew His Father accepted Him, He could endure rejection. He was willing to displease the religious leaders because He knew He pleased His Father (Matt. 3:17). The Pharisees’ frowns did not frighten Him because He knew His Father smiled upon Him. In the same way that Christ rested in His Father’s love, He invites us to abide in His love (John 15:10). When we rest in His love, nothing can unsettle us.

Christ’s love for us is not condescending. Jesus did not patronize His disciples or make them feel like small, unimportant servants. He related to them as trusted friends with whom He could be open and honest (John 15:15). This status is not one we’ve earned or deserve in any way. In the world, people dream of becoming friends with royalty. There’s no friendship more coveted than to be the friend of the king. Christ’s love lifts us out of insignificance and grants us a level of favor and acceptance that we never could have dreamed of. As the Son of God, He transforms and ennobles us through His love and friendship. What a beautiful assurance of love, friendship, and acceptance we find in Christ!

This close friendship with Christ includes continual access to the Father. Jesus invites us to pray according to the Father’s will and assures us that He will hear and answer us (John 15:16). What incredible encouragement He gives to His followers: He loves us as the Father loves Him. He calls us His friends. He chose us before we chose Him. He appointed us to bear fruit. He promises to hear and answer our prayers.

What a Friend we have in Jesus!

**Questions to consider:**

`How does knowing Christ and the Father’s love speak to your heart? How does it impact you?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`