---
title:  inQuire
date:   25/07/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Abiding in Christ:**

1. According to the parable of the vine and the branches, how much depends on our connection with Jesus? John 15:1–8
2. How does the vinedresser help the branches bear fruit? See this week’s inGest.
3. What does it mean and look like on a practical, day-to-day level to abide in Christ and His love? John 15:4–10

`Personal reflection: How does Satan seek to keep people from abiding in Christ? What can we do to ensure he doesn’t succeed?`

**No Longer a Servant:**

1. How close is the relationship Jesus desires to build with each one of us? John 15:11–15
2. How does this close friendship with Jesus give us access to the Father? John 15:16

`Personal reflection: Have you felt what it’s like to be filled with Christ’s joy? Elaborate on that experience.`

**Hated by the World:**

1. How does the world receive Christ’s followers? John 15:18–21; 2 Tim. 3:12
2. Why are God’s followers hated by the world?

`Personal reflection: When have you faced pressure to compromise your faith and practices? How did you navigate that challenge?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Jesus is committed to helping us bear fruit if we are willing to constantly abide in Him.
- Jesus chose us, calls us His friends, and loves us with the same love the Father has for Him—and that changes everything about how we live and love.
- Hardship isn’t a sign God has abandoned us; it reminds us He’s chosen us.