---
title:  Old Testament Promises
date:   16/11/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
John 5:17, 20, 36–38; John 5:39, 40, 46, 47; Isaiah 40:3; Psalm 118:26; John 8:12–30.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘But I have a proof about myself that is greater [more powerful] than anything John said. The things I do are my proof. These [things] are what my Father gave me to do. They show that the Father sent me’ ” (John 5:36, ERV).

Again and again, John wrote about all the things that Jesus said and did to show He was the Savior. The Savior came to the people of Israel. He came as one of them, a Jew. Jesus was born in Bethlehem. The Bible promised He would be born there, hundreds of years before He came to this earth as a baby.

John tells us some surprising news about Jesus: “He, the Word [Jesus], was in the world [living among people on the earth]. Yes, he even [also] made the world [the skies and the earth]. And yet [but] the world [the people on the earth] did not know him” (John 1:10, WE).

How did the people on this earth not know Jesus? Many people didn’t know Jesus. They should have known Jesus. They saw everything Jesus did and said. These people had no excuse because the Old Testament already taught them who Jesus was.

This week, we will look at more ways John showed that Jesus was the Savior. Also, we will look at why some people continued to reject Jesus. God gave these people many powerful reasons to believe in Jesus. But they refused.

What can we learn from their mistakes?