---
title:  Miracles, Works, And Wonders
date:   17/11/2024
---

John wrote about the miracles that Jesus did.

Of course, we can’t always trust miracles, powerful works, and wonders. Sometimes false prophets, or special messengers, also did miracles. But Jesus’ miracles in the Book of John showed that Jesus was the Savior. Those miracles also showed that Jesus came from God the Father Himself.

`Read John 5:17, 20, 36–38. How do these verses explain the relationship between Jesus and God the Father? How do the miracles in these verses show us the relationship between Jesus and God the Father, too?`

Jesus used the signs to show that He and His Father worked closely together. The two were one. Jesus’ miracles and works showed that “ ‘the Father is in me and I am in the Father’ ” (John 10:38, ERV; also read John 14:10, 11).

Jesus came to do His Father’s work. Then people would understand who God was when they saw Jesus’ miracles. These wonderful acts also showed people that Jesus was from the Father.

As we already learned, some people chose not to believe the powerful miracles and the wonderful stories that people told about Jesus.

The Jewish leaders asked Jesus, “ ‘How long will you make us wonder about you? If you are the Messiah [Savior], then tell us clearly [plainly].’ Jesus answered, ‘I told you already, but you did not believe. I do miracles in my Father’s name. These miracles show who I am’ ” (John 10:24, 25, ERV).

If Jesus said He was the Savior, the Jewish leaders would attack Him. The leaders were looking for any excuse they could use to kill Jesus. Jesus knew what they were trying to do. So, He did not tell them He was the Savior. He talked about the miracles He already did. If Jesus said, “I am the Savior,” the religious leaders could accuse Him of lying. But the leaders can’t say that the miracles, works, and wonders are lies. These signs are powerful proof that show who Jesus was and where He came from.

`How can we protect ourselves from having hard hearts? How do we avoid doing what the Jewish leaders did?`