---
title:  What Does The Old Testament Say About Jesus?
date:   18/11/2024
---

As we saw yesterday, John talked about the miracles that Jesus did and the stories that people told about Jesus. These things show that Jesus is the Savior. John also used verses from the Old Testament to show that Jesus was the Promised One from God. These Old Testament verses showed the future work that Jesus would do when He came to earth. The Old Testament is important to the Book of John and to the whole New Testament. The Old Testament shows who Jesus was, where He came from, what He did, and what He will do.

`Read the following verses: John 5:39, 40, 46, 47. What do these verses show us about how Jesus thought and felt about the Bible? What power did Jesus believe the Bible has in our lives?`

Again and again, Jesus shows that the Old Testament talks about Him. Jesus uses things that happened from the Old Testament to explain who He is and what He will do. Let’s look at an example in John 3:14. In this verse, Jesus uses a quote from Numbers 21:5–9 to explain to Nicodemus that He came to die on the cross: “ ‘Moses ­lifted up the snake in the desert. It is the same with the Son of Man. He must be lifted up too’ ” (John 3:14, ERV). Jesus does three things with the quote from Numbers 21:5–9. First, Jesus talks about the story in a way that shows that He believes it is real. Second, Jesus uses the story to show who He is and what He must do. Third, Jesus gives us the meaning of the story in the Book of Numbers.

Jesus isn’t the only one who uses the Old Testament to show us who He is. Other people in the New Testament use the Old Testament, too. Early on in the Book of John, we read the words of Philip, who says, “ ‘We have found the man that Moses wrote about in the law. The prophets [special messengers] wrote about him too’ ” (John 1:45, ERV).

`Read the following verses: John 13:18; John 17:12; John 19:24, 28, 36. What do these verses teach us about how Jesus and John thought about the Bible? What does this answer tell us about how important the Bible is for our faith, too?`