---
title:  'Old Testament Promises About Jesus: Part 1'
date:   19/11/2024
---

Jesus had a conversation with the Jewish spiritual leaders. In this conversation, Jesus told the Jewish leaders who He was. Jesus also showed them why the Bible was very important to their faith. We may not think Jesus needed to do that because the Jewish leaders already believed in the Bible. But Jesus also wanted to show them who He was. Yes, the hearts of the ­leaders were very hard. They fought to avoid believing Jesus in their hearts. But Jesus didn’t stop trying to save them.

John uses many quotes and ideas from the Old Testament to show that Jesus is the Savior whom God promised to send.

**Read the pairs of Bible verses below. How does the New Testament use the Old Testament to show us who Jesus is?**

`John 1:23; Isaiah 40:3`

`John 2:16, 17; Psalm 69:9`

`John 7:38; Jeremiah 2:13`

`John 19:36; Numbers 9:12`

John, Peter, Paul, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and all the New Testament writers show, again and again, how Jesus’ life, death, waking up from the dead, and going back to heaven are promises that the Old Testament made about Jesus. Jesus did all these things, just as the Bible said He would do.

Jesus always told His followers to study the Bible. The Bible showed the work Jesus came to do. When did the followers finally understand that the Bible showed them Jesus? The followers finally understood after Jesus died, woke up from the dead, and appeared to them. “His disciples later remembered what he had said. That was after he had been raised [woke up] from the dead. Then they believed the Scripture [Bible]. They also believed the words that Jesus had spoken” (John 2:22, NIrV; also read John 20:9).