---
title:  From Below
date:   21/11/2024
---

In our study so far, we’ve seen that John shows how Jesus is the promised Savior. Jesus is the hope that the Jewish people waited so long for.

But many of the Jewish spiritual leaders were Jesus’ biggest enemies.

Why did they hate Jesus so much?

`Read John 8:12–30. What is happening in these verses? Which verses in John 8:12–30 help best to explain why many of the Jewish leaders rejected Jesus?`

Jesus says that the Jewish leaders do not know Him or God the Father (John 8:19). The Jewish leaders should have known both the Father and Jesus. But the leaders believed lies. The leaders refused to give up their false beliefs and wrong ideas. Jesus stood right in front of them. Jesus said and did many powerful things to show the leaders who the Father was. But the leaders rejected Jesus anyway.

Jesus also says to the leaders, “ ‘You people are from here below’ ” (John 8:23, ICB). In other words, Jesus was saying that the leaders were not holy. They pretended to serve God. Paul’s words about false Christians can be said about the Jewish religious leaders: “They will do things to make it look as if they are Christians. But they will not receive the power that is for a Christian’ ” (2 Timothy 3:5, NLV). The Jewish leaders looked religious on the outside. But they had no faith in their hearts.

This problem was not new. Isaiah wrote about the Jews in his time: “ ‘These people say they love me. They show honor to me with words. But their hearts are far from me. The honor they show me is nothing but human rules they have memorized [know in their hearts]’ ” (Isaiah 29:13, ICB). Hundreds of years later, Jesus says much the same thing about the Jewish leaders: “ ‘Their worship of Me is worth nothing. They teach what men say must be done’ ” (Mark 7:7, NLV). The teachings of the Jewish leaders were man-made (John 8:23). Jesus and His teachings came from heaven (John 8:23). Worse, the leaders led other people to accept their false teachings. The good news is that many Jews believed in Jesus because of the conversation between Jesus and the leaders in John 8:12–30. Yes, there was bad leadership. But some of the Jewish people saw Jesus for who He really was.