---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   22/11/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘Let Not Your Heart Be Troubled,’ ” pages 662–680, in The Desire of Ages.

“God gave Bible truth to the Hebrew people. This Bible truth was the same as golden treasure. Jesus taught the Jews how He planned to save people from sin. Jesus used symbols to help the Jewish people understand these important truths. But when Jesus came to this earth, the Jews didn’t understand that Jesus was the Savior. The people had Bible truth. But man-made rules replaced Bible truth. Human ideas hid the truth about Jesus from them. People didn’t understand the meaning of the Bible truth God gave them. The Jews had wonderful knowledge that was the same as a room filled with treasure. The door to this treasure room was open. But the Jews didn’t know it was open.

“God doesn’t hide His truth from people. People hide Bible truth from their minds when they choose to do the wrong things. Jesus gave the Jewish people more than enough proof that He was the Savior. But His teachings asked them to change their lives. The Jews knew that if they accepted Jesus, they must give up their false ideas and selfish behavior. Then they could accept everlasting Bible truth. So, the Jews refused to accept the proof that God gave to show that Jesus was the Savior. The Jews pretended to believe the Old Testament. But they refused to accept what the Bible said about Jesus’ love and His holy life. The Jews were afraid of being convinced about the truth. Then they would need to change and give up their wrong ideas. Jesus was the same as a treasure among the Jews. He was the Way, the Truth, and the Life. But the Jews rejected the best gift Heaven gave this earth.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 105, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How do the Old Testament promises about Jesus’ life make our faith strong?`

`What things stopped the Jewish spiritual leaders from believing in Jesus? How are these things a problem in our day, too?`

`Why must we reject anything that makes us doubt the Bible?`