---
title: 'Losing All'
date: 14/01/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: 2
Peter 3:3–13**

**Losing All**

Serving in an underdeveloped region, an Adventist missionary couple were saving up to purchase a living room shelf set. After praying about it, however, they found an amazingly beautiful living room shelf on sale at a luxury furniture store. The price miraculously matched what they already had in savings, so they decided to purchase it.

A few months later they received a call to work as missionaries in an even poorer area. If they accepted this call, they would need to sell everything, including their new purchase—but at a ridiculously low price! The missionary couple knew it sounded childish, but they considered declining the call because of that new set. After all, didn’t God help them acquire it to begin with? The couple eventually recognized that by putting their heart in the gift, they were disregarding the Giver, His plans for their life, for the salvation of others, and His ability to provide for them again. At least in their hearts, the gift became greater than the Giver!

It may be challenging when we realize that following Jesus and working for Him means to surrender all to Him. It may require us to leave associations, properties, or income, or even to lose life itself. What is sure is that all of us, sooner or later, will leave all our possessions behind anyway, either by death or by translation at Jesus’ second coming. All we have here, in this transitory life, will be lost, including our bodies which will be replaced by immortal ones, in the twinkling of an eye (1 Cor. 15:50, 52).

During this week we will see how a patriarchal family, knowing that they would lose everything during an impending global crisis, surrendered all their resources by investing them in God’s plan of salvation. They received their investments back multifold when the crisis was over. Noah and his family became a reference for those who will also lose all during the final global crisis but promised to receive a “far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory” (2 Cor. 4:17).

#### inScribe

Write out 2 Peter 3:3–13 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out 2 Peter 3:10, 11. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `