---
title: Accepting What Is Inevitable
date: 15/01/2023
---

#### inGest

It’s not easy to adapt to new realities generated by crises, especially when loss is inevitable. But any attachments to the former conditions that aren’t possible will produce higher stress, impaired ability to think, and potential additional losses on top of those directly related to the crisis. It is only by trusting in God’s leading and letting the former realities go that we can rapidly adjust to changes and alleviate stress.

Times were difficult when Noah was born to Lamech (the ninth generation after Adam). The crisis at that time was not transitory, but permanent, and became increasingly worse. There was no safety, as violence and sin became rampant. Rights of property and marriage were not respected. If those stronger than you coveted your property or your spouse, you were fortunate if they left you alive after taking what they wanted. This was the last generation before the Flood, and all, even Noah, were oblivious to the fact that a far bigger crisis was coming.

Noah decided to live by faith and to thrive by trusting in God and His plans. Above his concerns for safety was the desire to lead his family away from the corrupting influence of the world. Because he walked with God, the Bible describes him as “perfect in his generations” (Gen. 6:9).

Considering this instability, everything seemed normal until Noah received a shocking revelation from God. The hour of His judgment had come, and as a result, there would be a near global loss! Everything would be lost; everyone would die!

Noah quickly understood that the death of all flesh (potentially including members of his extended family) would cause painful and permanent social isolation, with absolutely no hope to “return to normalcy.” Just imagine how stressful it would be to spend the rest of your life with no one to visit with. As everything was to be destroyed, Noah started building his estate again from scratch. What principles would guide the management of personal finances in such a time like this?

While many get stuck in life when things are impossible, Noah and his family moved by faith to a new kind of mindset. They accepted what was inevitable and, without any complaint, started to plan according to the new reality, trying to influence others also to do it.

After giving him the detailed instructions on how to (literally) navigate through the crisis, God proposed a covenant with Noah, his wife, his sons, and their wives. Salvation would be possible only if, by faith in God’s revelation, Noah (and anyone else) would meticulously follow the directions. One can rely on supernatural protection during crises when strictly following by faith God’s specific revelation for the times in which one lives. “He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty” (Ps. 91:1).

**Memorize your favorite verse in 2 Peter 3:3–13. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.**

` `

`How have you normally reacted to crises of instability around you?`

`How can God help changing resignation into acceptance and preparation?`