---
title: 'A Wise Investor'
date: 16/01/2023
---

#### inTerpret

God’s master plan of salvation is a universal truth, meaning that it can be accepted by any human being, living at any age, while the door of grace is open. There are developments of the plan of salvation, devised by God to meet the needs of people living in specific periods of history. Called “present truth,” these developments become a test to people living in that specific period, and not to people from other periods.

In Noah’s time the “present truth” was God’s impending judgment through water. His strange offer of salvation was through a never-before-seen and not-yet-built means of transportation. The acceptance or rejection of that “present truth” was a life-or-death matter, leading to salvation or perdition.

While preaching the “present truth,” Noah was investing and working. To save his family, he built a monumental floating vehicle at his expense, as there was no organization to subsidize it. The task was so huge that he at one point may have doubted having the means to finish it. Similar to today’s believers, the privilege of knowing the conclusion helped make the right decisions.

Knowing that radical crises require radical measures, Noah understood that this was the time to invest more than tithes and offerings! It was neither a donation nor a matter of generosity, but of intelligence informed by faith in God’s revelation! After all, there was no other option for the survival and salvation of the whole family.

When our preaching is followed by our investments, we mean what we are preaching. By starting to build the ship and investing all he had in it, Noah testified to the world how deep his convictions were about the “present truth.” When crowds were attracted to the scene, a wide gate was opened for him to invite people to repent and to prepare for the crisis. This confirms that the acceptance and practice of “present truth” becomes our best evangelistic method.

Some who accepted Noah’s message and joined his work, like Methuselah, died before the Flood. Everyone else, even some nominal believers in God, ridiculed Noah, regarding him as a naive, radical fanatic. They wrongly believed that God’s loving character would never allow Him to destroy those who rebel against His law. Nevertheless, worldwide repentance and reformation, in response to the prophetic voice, could have changed the fate of that wicked generation, as with Jonah and the Ninevites centuries later.

At the end of his work, Noah had become depleted of material goods and God called him to enter the ark. When the door shut the first time, he owned nothing except the ark. But when the door was opened again, there was no wealthier creature in the world. All the world (literally) belonged to him and his children! As said Jesus: “There is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters . . . or lands, for My sake and the gospel’s, who shall not receive a hundredfold now in this time . . . with persecutions—and in the age to come, eternal life” (Mark 10:29, 30).

` `