---
title: 'The Perfect Offering'
date: 18/01/2023
---

#### inVite

If God is not a respecter of persons, why was Noah chosen among all other people of his time? Genesis 6 indicates that he “found grace in the eyes of the Lord” because he was “perfect in his generations,” and it was so because he “walked with God” (vv. 8, 9). In Genesis 7:1 we are also told that Noah was righteous before God in His generation.

Perfection in God’s eyes, instead of a performance-related goal to be reached, is the very way you regularly walk with Him who is perfect. Understanding that perfection is attained by getting closer and closer to Him, Noah focused on developing habits of walking with God, distancing himself from the corruption that is found in the world.

But the closer Noah got with the Lord, the deeper his sense of God’s holiness and of his own personal sinfulness became. By being a part of the human race, sin couldn’t be eradicated by a firm decision, but it would demand the sinner’s death. Since the time of Adam a Substitute was promised, represented by a sacrificed animal, that would die in the sinner’s place.

Therefore, a righteous person is not someone that does not make any mistakes. Instead, it is someone who is enlightened by God’s law, recognizes his/her own mistakes, regularly confesses them to Jesus, believes in the death of Christ on her/his behalf, and develops habits of regular communion with Him. The good news is that all that confess their sins will be forgiven and be considered righteous (1 John 1:9)!

There would be no harmony with God unless we accept Christ’s death to remove our sins—He is the perfect offering. It is harmony with God that opens the way to His covenantal blessings, as He cannot prosper sinners. All the blessings we receive, such as protection and material prosperity, are possible only because harmony with God was made possible through the death of Christ. In Noah’s time, this was represented by the animal offering.

After the waters subsided and the door was opened, what was the first thing Noah did after leaving the ark? Even before building his own house, he built an altar. Risking his limited stock of food, he presented an animal offering, thanking God for the protection. That offering also expressed the acceptance of Jesus’ substitutionary death that cleanses sinners and makes all covenantal blessings possible! That offering affected all subsequent generations. Only after accepting it, God promised never to destroy the earth again by the means of a flood and signed that promise with the rainbow.

The “God first” principle will lead all true followers of Jesus to make rendering offerings to sustain His cause their first concern. Like Noah, they do not fear material loss. Instead, they trust that Jesus’ death on their behalf—the perfect offering—opened the way for them to be miraculously provided with all things necessary for life!

` `