---
title: Appropriating Properties Properly
date: 19/01/2023
---

#### inSight

While Noah was giving his warning message to the world, his works testified of his sincerity... He gave the world an example of believing just what God says. All that he possessed, he invested in the ark. (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1890], 95.)

Would you make your property secure? Place it in the hand that bears the nailprint of the crucifixion. Retain it in your possession, and it will be to your eternal loss. Give it to God, and from that moment it bears His inscription. It is sealed with His immutability. Would you enjoy your substance? Then use it for the blessing of the suffering. (Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9 [Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1909], 50, 51.)

Houses and lands will be of no use to the saints in the time of trouble, for they will then have to flee before infuriated mobs, and at that time their possessions cannot be disposed of to advance the cause of present truth. I was shown that it is the will of God that the saints should cut loose from every encumbrance before the time of trouble comes, and make a covenant with God through sacrifice. If they have their property on the altar, and earnestly inquire of God for duty, He will teach them when to dispose of these things. Then they will be free in the time of trouble, and have no clogs to weigh them down.

I saw that if any held on to their property, and did not inquire of the Lord as to their duty, He would not make duty known, and they would be permitted to keep their property, and in the time of trouble it would come up before them like a mountain to crush them, and they would try to dispose of it, but would not be able. I heard some mourn like this: “The cause was languishing, God's people were starving for the truth, and we made no effort to supply the lack; now our property is useless. O that we had let it go, and laid up treasure in heaven!”...

I also saw that God had not required all of His people to dispose of their property at the same time, but if they desired to be taught, He would teach them, in a time of need, when to sell and how much to sell. Some have been required to dispose of their property in times past to sustain the advent cause, while others have been permitted to keep theirs until a time of need. Then, as the cause needs it, their duty is to sell. (Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1940], 59, 60.)

In the last extremity, before this work shall close, thousands will be cheerfully laid upon the altar. Men and women will feel it a blessed privilege to share in the work of preparing souls to stand in the great day of God, and they will give hundreds as readily as dollars are given now. (E. G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, 40.)

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`

`After this week’s study, how has it personally spoken to you?`

`How can you share this conviction with others?`