---
title:  Be Who You Are
date:   20/05/2017
---

### Be Who You Are

### Read for This Week’s Study
2 Pet. 1:1–15, Eph. 2:8, Rom. 5:3–5, Heb. 10:38, Rom. 6:11, 1 Cor. 15:12–57.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “For this very reason, make every effort to add to your faith goodness; and to goodness, knowledge; and to knowledge, self-control; and to self-control, perseverance; and to perseverance, godliness; and to godliness, mutual affection; and to mutual affection, love” (2 Peter 1:5–7, NIV). 

One of the astonishing things about the New Testament is how much truth can be “crammed” into a very limited amount of space. Take this week’s lesson, which covers 2 Peter 1:1–14. In these 14 verses, Peter teaches us about righteousness by faith. He then gets into what God’s power can do in the lives of those who have given themselves to Jesus. He talks about the amazing truth that we can become “partakers of the divine nature” (2 Pet. 1:4) and that we can be free from the corruption and lust of the world. 

In fact, not only do we get a kind of catalog of Christian virtues, but Peter presents them in a specific order. One follows another, which follows another, and so forth until they climax into the most important one of all.

He also writes about the reality of what it means to be in Christ and to be “cleansed” (2 Pet. 1:9, NIV) from our old sins, and then even brings in the idea of assurance of salvation, the promise of eternal life in “the everlasting kingdom” (2 Pet. 1:11) of the Lord.

And finally, we even get a little discourse on the crucial topic of the state of the dead. What a lot of rich and deep truth in just 14 verses!

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, May 27._