---
title:  Love, the Goal of Christian Virtue
date:   22/05/2017
---

### Love, the Goal of Christian Virtue

`Read 2 Peter 1:5–7; Romans 5:3–5; James 1:3, 4; and Galatians 5:22, 23. What similar theme appears in these texts?`

It was common among philosophers in the ancient world to list virtues. Such lists are often called a “catalogue of virtues,” and there are several examples in the New Testament (Rom. 5:3–5; James 1:3, 4; Gal. 5:22, 23). It was highly likely that Peter’s readers were familiar with such lists, although there are interesting differences between what a philosopher might list and what Peter lists. Note that Peter has arranged these deliberately in a sequence, so that each virtue builds on the previous virtue, until it reaches a climax in love!  

Each of the virtues Peter uses has significant meaning:

_Faith_: In this context, faith is nothing less than a saving belief in Jesus (see Gal. 3:11, Heb. 10:38).

_Virtue_: Virtue (Greek arête), a good quality of any kind, was heralded even among pagan philosophers. Yes, faith is crucial, but it must lead to a changed life, one in which virtue is expressed. 

_Knowledge_: Peter surely isn’t talking of knowledge in general but rather the knowledge that comes from a saving relationship with Jesus Christ.

_Temperance/Self-control_: Mature Christians are able to control their impulses, particularly those impulses that lead to excesses.

_Patience/Steadfastness_: Steadfastness is endurance, especially in the face of trials and persecution.

_Godliness_: In the pagan world, the word translated here as “godliness” means ethical behavior that results from a belief in a god. Within the New Testament it also carries the concept of ethical behavior that results from belief in the one true God (1 Tim. 2:2).

_Brotherly kindness_: Christians are like a family, and godliness will lead to a community in which people are kind to one another.

_Love_: Peter brings the list to a climax with love. He sounds like Paul, too: “And now abide faith, hope, love, these three; but the greatest of these is love” (1 Cor. 13:13, NKJV).

`Before Peter begins the list of virtues, he says that we should “make every effort” (2 Pet. 1:5, NET) to attain these virtues. What does he mean by that? What part does human effort play in our desire to live godly, faithful lives?`