---
title:  Be Who You Are
date:   23/05/2017
---

### Be Who You Are 

After giving us the list of what we should diligently seek for as Christians, Peter then declares what the result will be.

`Read 2 Peter 1:8–11. What is the link between what has already been done for a Christian and how a Christian should be living?` 

Peter urges his readers to live according to the new reality that is true for them in Jesus. The characteristics of faith, virtue, knowledge, self-control, steadfastness, godliness, brotherly affection, and love “are yours and abound” (2 Pet. 1:8, NKJV). 

The problem is that not all Christians live according to this new reality. Some are ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ (2 Pet. 1:8). Such people have forgotten that they were cleansed from “old sins” (2 Pet. 1:9, NKJV). So, says Peter, Christians should live out the new reality that is true for them in Jesus. In Christ, they have received forgiveness, cleansing, and the right to partake in the divine nature. Therefore they must “give diligence to make your calling and election sure” (2 Pet. 1:10). There’s no excuse for living as they had done before, no excuse for being “barren” or “unfruitful” Christians.

“We hear a great deal about faith, but we need to hear a great deal more about works. Many are deceiving their own souls by living an easy-going, accommodating, crossless religion.”—Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, p. 50.  

`Read Romans 6:11. What does Paul say here that reflects what Peter wrote in the texts for today?`

In a sense, both Peter and Paul say, “Be what you are.” And we are new creatures in Christ, cleansed from sin, and partakers of the divine nature. That’s why we can live the kind of life that we are called to. We are supposed to be like Christ, which is what Christian means. 

`How “like Christ” are you? In what areas can you do better?`