---
title:  Jesus’ Powerful Example
date:   01/12/2024
---

We can read Jesus’ Goodbye Sermon in John 13–17. In this sermon, Jesus teaches His followers what to expect and do in the future. Jesus helps His followers feel better about His leaving them. Jesus promises to send them a Helper (the Holy Spirit; John 14–16). Jesus also tells His followers that they will feel sad in the future because hard times are coming (John 15; 16). Then Jesus encourages His followers to stay strong in the faith (John 15).

`Read the story in John 13:1–20. What happens in this story? Why is this story so important? What lessons did Jesus wish to teach His followers?`

In Jesus’ day, people went barefoot or wore sandals. Sandals were open shoes that didn’t cover the toes or all of the feet. So, the feet got dirty. Slaves or servants washed the feet of guests who came to someone’s house for a meal. But no servant was with Jesus and His followers on the night that Jesus ate His last meal with His followers before He got arrested.

To everyone’s surprise, Jesus got up from the supper and washed the feet of all of His followers. John 13:4, 5 tells us everything that Jesus did. John tells us everything Jesus did because John wants us to understand that Jesus is doing something very special. Jesus is God. Now God is acting the same as a servant! Jesus empties His heart of all pride and kneels to wash the feet of His own followers and servants!

Peter’s words and behavior in John 13:8–11 show us how much Jesus’ followers misunderstood His actions. How could Jesus, the Savior, their Master, lower Himself to do this dirty work? Peter refused to let Jesus wash his feet. Jesus told Peter that if he refused to cooperate, then Peter had no part with Jesus. So, Peter asked for more because he wanted to stay close to Jesus.

When Jesus lowers Himself to wash His followers’ feet, He shows us who He is. In John 13:13, Jesus says He is the Teacher and the Lord. These names show us that Jesus has much power and control. But Jesus teaches that power and control must be used to serve other people, not to make yourself more powerful. Today, the Seventh-day Adventist Church follows Jesus’ example with footwashing. Members wash each other’s feet to get ready for the Lord’s Supper.