---
title:  I Will Come Again
date:   02/12/2024
---

`Read what Jesus says in John 14:1–3. Why did Jesus say these words? What promises does Jesus make?`

At the end of John 13, Jesus says that He is going away (John 13:33). This information causes Peter to ask Jesus where He is going (John 13:36). The followers don’t understand that Jesus is talking about His dying on the cross, His waking up from the dead, and His going back to heaven. Peter says that he is ready to die for Jesus (John 13:37). But Jesus warns Peter that he will soon pretend that he doesn’t know who Jesus is.

Then Jesus tells His followers not to fill their hearts with worry or fear (John 14:1). When people are worried or afraid, they often become confused. So, Jesus knows that His words may cause His followers to feel afraid or confused about the future.

Jesus doesn’t want His followers to feel afraid. So Jesus tells them something to help them feel better. Jesus talks about His Father’s house. In this house, there are many rooms. (Do you see these rooms are not mansions or big houses? These rooms are the same as rooms in an inn or a hotel.) Jesus is going to heaven to get rooms ready for His followers in His Father’s house. Jesus is looking past the Cross to the time in the future when the sin problem will be solved forever (read Daniel 7:27).

Jesus says, “ ‘After I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back. Then I will take you with me, so that you can be where I am’ ” (John 14:3, ERV). This promise talks about the Second Coming.

Why can we trust this promise? To answer the question, we must look at two different ways we can translate this promise. The words “I will come” in John 14:3 show us what Jesus will do in the future. In the Greek language, these words were written as “I am coming,” which shows us what Jesus is doing right now. So, John shows us a powerful Bible truth. Jesus talks about His Second Coming as if it is already happening right now! That’s why we can trust Jesus when He says He will come back.

For sure, we can trust Jesus who made this promise.

`What does the Cross teach us about why we can trust in Jesus’ promise about the Second Coming?`