---
title:  I Am The Truth
date:   04/12/2024
---

`Read John 1:14, 17; John 8:32; John 14:6; and John 15:26. How does John connect the idea of Truth to Jesus?`

Again and again in the Book of John, we see that truth is connected to Jesus, to His Father, and to the Holy Spirit. Jesus is the light. Jesus is not the dark (John 1:1–14; John 3:19–21). The devil is a liar and a sinner (John 8:44–46). In the Book of John, truth is more than information and correct numbers. Truth is also about obeying God and doing what He asks us to do.

“Many people want to know the living God. These people want God in their lives. Man-made ideas and writings can’t fill the human heart. Human sayings and inventions have no worth. People must read the Bible. In the Bible people will hear God talk to them. These people may have heard only human ideas. But when they read the Bible, they will hear the voice of God. The Lord can make the spirit new and give us everlasting life.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 40, adapted.

Think about what it means for Jesus to be the Truth. Jesus is the “logos” or the Word who was with God from the beginning. Jesus made all things (John 1:1–4). Jesus was there with the Father from the beginning. Jesus and the Father are in perfect agreement with each other. Jesus is also the “I AM.” Jesus is not under anyone else’s control. Everything lives or is here because Jesus made everything. “Everything was made through [with] him and for him. The Son was there before anything was made. And all things continue because of him” (Colossians 1:16, 17, ERV).

Jesus is more than someone who says the truth. Jesus is the Truth. Truth isn’t just an idea or a human invention. Truth is a Person! That Person is Jesus.

The truth, Jesus, can be compared to the sun that lights up the whole earth (John 8:12). C. S. Lewis says, “I believe in Christianity in the same way that I believe that the sun rises. I saw the sun rise. Then the sun helps me to see everything else.”—“Is Theology Poetry?” (n. p.: Samizdat University Press, 2014), page 15, first presented in 1944. Jesus, the Truth, helps us to understand life and everything around us.