---
title:  The Bible And The Truth
date:   05/12/2024
---

The Book of John tells us about Jesus, who is the way, the truth, and the life. The Old and New Testaments have an important part in teaching us Bible truth. The Bible teaches us about who Jesus is and what He came to do.

`Read John 5:38–40. What is Jesus saying about the Bible in these verses?`

Jesus and His followers used the Bible again and again to show that He was the Savior. Jesus said, “ ‘If you really believed Moses, you would believe me because Moses wrote about me. But you don’t believe what Moses wrote. So how can you believe what I say?’ ” (John 5:46, 47, ICB).

`Read Luke 24:27. Why is it important that Jesus used the Bible to show why His work for God was important?`

In the Book of Matthew, Jesus says a verse from Exodus and tells the Jewish leaders, “ ‘Surely [for sure] you have read what God said to you about people rising [waking up] from death [the dead]’ ” (Matthew 22:31, ERV). In the same way, Zacharias talked about the things that God “promised through [told to] his holy prophets [special messengers] long ago” (Luke 1:70, ERV). Peter preached a sermon on the Day of Pentecost. Pentecost was the time when God poured the Holy Spirit on the church after Jesus went back to heaven. In his sermon, Peter said, “ ‘Brothers and sisters, in the Scriptures [the Bible] the Holy Spirit said through [to] David that something must happen. He [the Spirit] was talking about Judas, one of our own group. Judas served together with us. The Spirit said that Judas would lead men to arrest Jesus’ ” (Acts 1:16, 17, ERV).

The Bible is not a schoolbook about science. The Bible doesn’t explain how to split the smallest part of a human brain cell or how to operate on the human body. But the Bible gives us something more important than man-made knowledge. The Bible helps us understand who we are and why we are here. The Bible is the same as light. This light helps us to see. Without this light, we cannot understand God, who He is, where we came from, why we are here, what life means, and what will happen in the future.

`What are some Bible truths that science can’t teach?`