---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   06/12/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘The Light of Life,’ ” pages 463–475, in The Desire of Ages; E. Edward Zinke, “The Authority of the Bible and the Certainty of the Second Coming,” pages 23–36, in The Certainty of the Second Coming.

Jesus said, “ ‘I am the Light of the world [for all people on the earth]’ ” (John 8:12, NLV). When Jesus said these words, He “was in the part of the temple that was connected with a special Jewish feast named the Feast of Tabernacles. In the middle of this part of the temple, two big lampstands stood. After the evening offering, all the lamps were lit. The light from the lamps shined on the city of Jerusalem. The lamps helped the Jews remember the time when God led His people in a tall cloud of light across the desert. The lamp light helped the people to think about the coming of the promised Savior. At evening when the lamps were lit, the people in temple were filled with joy. . . .

“When the lamps from the temple filled Jerusalem with light, the Jews talked about their hope in the coming Savior. The people hoped the Savior would come soon to fill Israel with His light. Jesus understood that the lamps also taught another important Bible truth: Jesus is the same as the lamps in the temple. Jesus gives us all spiri­tual light or truth. This Bible truth fills with light the hearts and minds of people on this dark earth. The lamps in the temple were a good word picture. But the sun was a better one. Jesus’ own hand put the sun in the skies.

“The time was morning. The sun was above the Mount of Olives. The sun’s rays fell on the marble palaces and lit up the golden temple walls. Jesus pointed to the sun and said, ‘I am the Light of [for] the world [all the people on the earth]’ [John 8:12, NLV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 463, 464, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What important truths can we never learn from science? For example, the Cross? Or the Second Coming? Why must God show these Bible truths to us?`

`Lucifer was a perfect angel. He knew so much about God and who He was. But Lucifer fought against God. What does Lucifer’s fall teach us about free choice? We also have this same free choice. Why must we choose to give our lives to God every moment?`