---
title:  God’s Plan for Marriage
date:   18/08/2024
---

`What question do the Pharisees, a group of Jewish spiri­tual leaders, use to “trap” Jesus? How did Jesus escape the trap? What does His answer teach us? Read Mark 10:1–12; Genesis 1:27; and Genesis 2:24 for the answer.`

In Mark 10:1–12, the Pharisees ask Jesus if it is legal for a man to divorce his wife. The Pharisees taught that divorce was legal. But they didn’t agree about the reasons for getting a divorce. One group of Pharisees was the School of Shammai. This group had strict rules about divorce. The School of Shammai taught that a man could only divorce his wife for certain reasons: (1) She couldn’t give him a child. (2) She didn’t take care of his needs. (3) He didn’t love her. Or (4) she cheated on him. The School of Hillel allowed divorce for almost any reason.

So, we may think the Pharisees are strange for asking Jesus this question about divorce if they already teach that divorce is legal. But the Pharisees were really being sneaky. Their question was a trap. If Jesus said the wrong answer, then He could get in trouble with Herod Antipas. Herod Antipas controlled the area east of the Jordan River, where Jesus now was. Antipas divorced his wife and married Herodias, who was his brother’s wife. Herod also cut off John the Baptist’s head because John told Herod it was a sin to marry his brother’s wife (read Matthew 14:1–12).

Jesus answers the question with a question. He asks the Pharisees what Moses said about divorce. The Pharisees talk about what Moses said in Deuteronomy 24:1–4. These verses talk about getting married after divorce. That’s because the Israelites in Moses’ day were already divorcing their wives. The laws in Deuteronomy 24 helped protect the woman in the marriage. But in Jesus’ day, members of the School of Hillel used these laws to make it easier to get divorced for any reason. They used the law that protected a wife as an easy way to get rid of her.

Jesus doesn’t try to argue about Deuteronomy 24 with the Pharisees. Jesus talks about God’s first plan for marriage before sin (Genesis 1 and 2). Jesus says that in the beginning, God made a man and a woman (Genesis 1:27). Then Jesus talks about the Bible truth in Genesis 2:24. A man leaves his parents and joins himself to his wife. The two become one body, heart, and mind. So, Jesus teaches that what God joins together, people should not separate.