---
title:  Jesus and Children
date:   19/08/2024
---

`What did Jesus do for parents who brought their children to Him? Read Mark 10:13–16.`

In Jesus’ time, people wanted to have children. But if a child was born with a missing or broken body part, parents often left the child to die on rocks or threw it into a river. People wanted sons more than daughters. Sometimes parents left girl babies to die in the sun or rain. At times, people saved these babies and sold them as slaves when they were older. So, while people wanted to have children, the adults weren’t always fair to children. People behaved as if children were no better than slaves (Galatians 4:1, 2).

Jesus’ followers did not really understand Jesus’ teaching in Mark 9 about accepting God’s kingdom with a child’s trust and faith (Mark 9:33–37). Now the followers scold the people who bring their children to Jesus for a blessing. Maybe the followers think that Jesus doesn’t have time for this small task.

The followers are wrong. Jesus is upset. In the Book of Mark, Jesus shows some strong feelings at times. One time, people tried to stop children from going to Jesus for a blessing. This experience teaches us that Jesus thinks children are very important.

Jesus insists that the followers must not stop the children from coming to Him. Why? Because God’s kingdom belongs to the children. We must accept God’s kingdom with the same faith and trust that a child has in his or her parents’ love.

“Don’t let your behavior give people a false picture of Jesus. Don’t keep the little ones away from Jesus with your mean and nasty spirit. Give children a reason to feel that heaven would be a nice place if you were there. Don’t talk about religion as something that children can’t understand. Show children that you expect them to accept Jesus when they are young. Show them that Christianity is a religion of joy. Let them see from your own life that coming to Jesus is not the end of everything that makes life joyful.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pages 43, 44, adapted.

`How can you be a better example of Jesus to the children around you? How can you show them His love?`