---
title:  What Must I Do to Be Saved?
date:   20/08/2024
---

`Read Mark 10:17–31. What important lessons about faith and following Jesus do these verses teach us, both rich or poor?`

The man in the story in Mark 10:17–31 approaches Jesus. The man shows how much he respects Jesus. The man runs to Him, kneels in front of Him, and asks an important question: “What must I do to have everlasting life?” Jesus talks about the last six commandments. The man answers that he has followed all these laws since he was a youth.

Mark is the only New Testament writer who tells us that Jesus loved the man. Jesus gives the man a test to show the man what is really in his heart. Jesus asks the man to sell everything he owns first and then come follow Him. The man feels very sad when he hears Jesus’ answer. The man turns away from Jesus and leaves because he owned many things. The man was not really following the commandments at all. He broke the first one. He put something above God in his life. The man’s riches were his god.

Jesus then explains that riches can trick us and cause us to reject God. Jesus said that it is hard for rich people to enter heaven.

The followers are surprised at Jesus’ words. The followers wonder who then can be saved? “Jesus looked at them and said, ‘That is something people cannot do, but God can. He can do anything’ ” (Mark 10:27, ERV).

Mark 10:27 is a beautiful verse. This verse contains an important Bible truth: you can’t make it to heaven on your own. You need God’s mercy to be saved. For sure, this idea is wonderful. We may think this verse is a powerful way to end the story. But the story is not over. Then Peter says that he and his friends left everything to follow Jesus. Jesus says that whatever we leave to follow Him is nothing compared to what we will get, now and later in heaven. This story teaches us an important lesson: only Jesus’ death removes our guilt. Only Jesus’ mercy; His resurrection, or waking up from the dead; and His life give us strength to obey His commandments.

`Read Romans 6:1–11. How do these verses show God’s mercy in our lives? How does God’s mercy remove our guilt and sin? How does God’s mercy make us new people in Him?`