---
title:  Can You Suffer What I Must Suffer?
date:   21/08/2024
---

`Read Mark 10:32–45. How do these verses show that Jesus’ followers don’t understand Jesus’ work on earth and what it means to follow Him?`

Jesus moves nearer to Jerusalem in His travels. On the way, He tells His followers what will happen to Him there. Jesus talks about His coming death and resurrection, or waking up from the dead. But Jesus’ followers don’t want to hear or believe this news. When you don’t want to hear something, you can reject it very easily, right?

James and John seem to do this very thing when they come to ask Jesus for a favor. Jesus asks them for more information. James and John say they want to sit on Jesus’ right side and left side when He is honored.

Jesus wants James and John to understand what they are really asking Him. So, Jesus asks them if they can suffer what He is about to suffer. Jesus will suffer in Gethsemane and on the cross (compare with Mark 14:36). Jesus will die and be buried in the grave (Mark 15:33–47) in the same way that He was buried under water when He was baptized (read Mark 1).

But James and John don’t understand what Jesus is saying. They tell Jesus that, yes, they can suffer what He will suffer. Jesus then tells them that they will suffer for Him. James was the first one of the Twelve Followers who died because of his faith (Acts 12:2). John lived the longest of all Jesus’ followers. He was sent to live on the island of Patmos (Revelation 1:9). Jesus says that God will decide who will get the honor to sit next to Jesus in His kingdom.

How did the other followers feel when they heard what James and John asked? They were angry with James and John (Mark 10:41).

Jesus then gives His followers one of His most impor­tant teachings. Jesus tells them that non-Jewish leaders use their control to become more powerful and rich. But in God’s kingdom, His followers always use their gifts and strength to bless other people. Jesus is the King of the kingdom of God. As the King, Jesus leads the way to the kingdom. He shows us how to get there. How? Jesus gave His own life as payment for our sins. This news is not what His followers expected or wanted to hear.