---
title:  What Do You Want Me to Do for You?
date:   22/08/2024
---

`Read Mark 10:46–52. How did blind Bartimaeus act when Jesus came near him?`

Until now in the Book of Mark, Jesus tells almost everyone He helps not to tell other people about His miracles and who He is. In the story in Mark 10:46–52, Jesus is about to leave Jericho when a blind man named Bartimaeus starts to shout. Bartimaeus is a beggar on the side of the road. “He heard that Jesus from Nazareth was walking by. So he began shouting, ‘Jesus, Son of David, please help me!’ ” (Mark 10:47, ERV).

“Many people scolded the blind man and told him to be quiet. But he shouted more and more, ‘Son of David, please help me!’ ” (Mark 10:48, ICB). Bartimaeus’s words show his faith in Jesus as the Savior. His words also show he trusts that Jesus can heal him. In Jesus’ day, the name ‘Son of David’ meant two things to the Jews. (1) They believe that the Son of David will sit on David’s throne and be king over all Israel (compare with Isaiah 11; Jeremiah 23:5, 6; Jeremiah 33:15; Ezekiel 34:23, 24; Ezekiel 37:24; Micah 5:2–4; Zechariah 3:8; Zechariah 6:12). (2) They also believe that the Son of David will be a healer and an exorcist. An exorcist is someone who commands demons to come out of people.

Jesus stops walking. He tells the people to invite Bartimaeus to come to Him. As Bartimaeus comes to Jesus, he throws off his coat. This action teaches us something very important about Bartimaeus. First, we must understand what people in Jesus’ day thought about blind people. Then we can better understand the lesson about Bartimaeus’s coat. In Jesus’ day, people thought that widows, orphans, and blind people were not very important. This group of people were often poor and needy. They were in danger of starving. They often had to beg for food. They did not have money for warm clothes. So, the coat was important. When Bartimaeus takes off the coat and leaves it behind, he shows his faith that Jesus will heal him.

Jesus doesn’t disappoint Bartimaeus. People who come to Jesus in the Book of Mark always get the help they need. Jesus asks Bartimaeus what he wants. The blind man asks Jesus to give him his sight. Right away Jesus heals him. The blind man follows Jesus on the road. This story shows us that being Jesus’ follower is about seeing life with new eyes. Then we will follow Jesus in the way that He leads.