---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   23/08/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Blessing the Children,” and “ ‘One Thing Thou Lackest,’ ” in _The Desire of Ages_, pages 511–523.

“Jesus loved children. He accepted their love for Him. Their words of praise were the same as music to Jesus. Whenever Jesus met men who were sneaky and liars, the words of the children made Jesus’ heart happy. Wherever Jesus went, His loving face and words caused the children to love and trust Him.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 511, adapted.

“Many rich and powerful people may think that God asks too much from them. They are the same as the rich young ruler. They don’t want to give up everything they own to follow Jesus. But everyone who wants to follow Jesus must obey this important rule. We must obey Jesus. He will accept nothing less from us. Jesus teaches us that we must give ourselves fully to Him. Often Jesus uses very strong language to explain this teaching. Why does Jesus use strong language in His teaching? Often Jesus uses strong language because it is the only way He can save us. So, He commands us to give up those things that will destroy us if we continue to hold onto them.”—_The Desire of Ages_, page 523, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What are ways you can help children and young people stay connected to Jesus and the church? Why is it so important that we do this?`

`Sometimes people say that they don’t care about money. That’s not true. Everyone cares about money. There’s nothing wrong with that. What, then, is the problem with money? Why must Christians, rich or poor, be careful with how they manage their money?`

`What if Jesus asked you, “What do you want Me to do for you?” What would be your answer?`

`Think some more about Jesus’ words in Mark 10:43–45. How do we follow Jesus’ example? How can we learn to serve other people in this way?`