---
title:  Am I Doing Enough?
date:  20/06/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Variations of this question are often followed with explanations: “I know I’m not saved by works, but I surely have to do something.”

First, what exactly is being asked? “How do I know I’m doing enough?” Enough for what? It’s impossible to meet a vague standard, so what’s being aimed for?

Is it an attempt to retroactively earn salvation? “Thanks, Jesus, for getting me started. I appreciate it, but I understand that I have to take it from here.” That’s unbiblical (Col. 2:6). Is people-pleasing the goal? Is it to be seen as a godly person, known for all of the ministries, speaking appointments, and service? This is also not a good idea (Gal. 1:10).

Second, there’s a difference between conviction to serve and anxiety to serve. The first comes from God; the second does not. God does not motivate or communicate through anxieties or fears: He has not given a spirit of fear, but of power, love, and of a sound mind (2 Tim. 1:7). His perfect love casts out all fear (1 John 4:18).

What is enough, though? There are the orphans to take care of, the widows, the church committee, literature evangelism, and there’s the need for weekly Bible studies. There’s also the need to preach several times a week, do home visitations, and write plenty of Christ-centered literature. We have to lead the people, serve in soup kitchens, donate clothing to a homeless shelter, and take up donations for the food pantry. Would that be enough? Well, there’s also learning rare languages to translate the Bible and visiting foreign lands to bring the life-giving words of Christ to those who do not know Him. We should also become excellent at our jobs and witness tirelessly and lovingly to colleagues. And, of course, we have to set apart a minimum of four hours a day for intercessory prayer, Bible study, and reflection.

If enough is defined as “all that there is to do,” then no one has the capacity to do enough. No one can meet every need, minister in every opportunity, or help everyone. Simply put, you and I cannot be God. We can follow Him, but we cannot be Him!

Instead of asking, “Am I doing enough?” choose the biblical rewording of, “Am I doing what God has asked me to do?” There are no biblical examples of God asking a single human to meet every need that they see. Instead, the apostles delegated responsibilities so that they could focus on their individual calling (Acts 6:1–7). In an even broader example, Paul explains that the church is the body of Christ, and “there are many members, yet one body” (1 Cor. 12:20). Each member is not a body unto itself, but a member of the body. As each part of the body has a specific function and focus, so does each child of God in being part of the body of Christ. God has not called anyone to be the entire church by themselves; He has called each to be a member of the church.

` `