---
title:  Introduction To Deuteronomy
date:  25/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Isaiah 14:12–14; Genesis 3:1–7; Genesis 12:1–3; Exodus 19:4–8.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “But anyone who does not love others [people] does not know God, because God is love” (1 John 4:8, WE).

WHY WAS THE BOOK OF DEUTERONOMY WRITTEN? Everything in life has a reason for being here. The same is true for Deuteronomy. Moses wrote this book for a special reason. When we understand why Deuteronomy was written, we will better understand the book and its purpose.

A lot of history happened before Moses wrote Deuteronomy. This history helps us better understand why Moses wrote the book. You may wonder, Do we really need to know all about these things that happened so long ago? Can we understand Deuteronomy anyway, even if we do not know about the things that caused Moses to write the book? Let us think about an example to help us answer this question. What if you tried to explain to someone what a windshield wiper on a car was? But you did not talk about the car at all. In the same way, we will have trouble understanding Deuteronomy if we do not understand what happened in history before Moses wrote the book.

This quarter, we will study Deuteronomy and present truth. Present truth is the Bible truth we need most for our time. This week, we will look at the most important parts of Bible history before Moses wrote Deuteronomy. Then we will see the best way to understand this book that is filled with so much present truth.