---
title:  Do You Want Love? Then Love People! 
date:  26/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

1 John 4:8 says, “God is love” (WE). These three words (four in Greek) show us an important idea about God. Do you see that John does not write “God loves”? Or that “God shows us what love is”? No, the verse says God is love. Love is not only what God does. Love is who God is. As sinners, that is hard for us to fully understand.

But we can understand enough to know that “God is love” is very good news. What if John had written, “God is hate”? Or what if John wrote, “God is mean and nasty”? Or “God does not care about us at all”? These ideas about God would give us something to worry about!

When we understand God is love, we understand His government better. Everything God does, He does because of love. God loves us. So, we should love God back (read Deuteronomy 6:5; Mark 12:30).

Love must be freely given. Or love cannot really be love. God cannot force us to love Him. The instant that God forces us to love Him, then our love is no longer love. That is why God made everyone in heaven and on earth free to love. God made it possible for us to not love Him back. And that is exactly what happened in the past. One person chose not to love God: Lucifer. His choice started the great war between good and evil in heaven and on earth.

Read about Lucifer (also known in Revelation as the dragon) in Isaiah 14:12–14; Ezekiel 28:12–17; and Revelation 12:7. What happens to Lucifer or the dragon in these verses? What do these verses show us about the freedom God gives us to love Him? What is the danger if we choose, as Lucifer did, not to love God? Can we really understand what happens to Lucifer in these verses if we do not fully understand that God is love?

Ezekiel 28:15 is helpful. It shows us that God made Lucifer perfect. Even so, Lucifer had sin in his heart. God made Lucifer free to love. God gave Lucifer so much. But this angel wanted more. That caused war in heaven.

`Have you heard of the robot dog? The robot dog will obey your commands, never pee on your floor, or chew your furniture. Is this dog free to love you? How does your answer help you understand why God wants people who can truly love Him back?`