---
title:  The Fall And The Flood 
date:  27/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God made humans with the freedom to choose. We can choose to love God back. We can choose between good and evil. This freedom is a basic part of love. Love must include the freedom to choose. Or love will not be love. This same freedom comes with a risk, as we saw in our study yesterday. We can make the wrong choice as Lucifer did. That is exactly what our first parents, Adam and Eve, did.

Read Genesis 2:16, 17 and Genesis 3:1–7. These verses show us perfect people on a perfect earth. They were made by a perfect God. But they chose to sin. What do these verses show us about the freedom God gave us? What can this freedom lead to? What do your answers show you about why love must include the freedom to choose?

After the Fall, things grew worse. People became so bad. The Lord saw that people “were very evil. He saw that they thought only about evil things all the time” (Genesis 6:5, ERV). Their behavior was bad, too. People became so evil that the Lord destroyed the whole earth with a Flood. In a way, the Flood was a second chance for humans. God gave them the chance to start over. But did humans make the most of this second chance? Sadly, we see from the story about the tower of Babel (Genesis 11:1–9) that humans continued to turn away from God.

“When the builders finished only part of the tower, they started to live in it. People also decorated some of the finished rooms for the statues of their gods. The people filled these rooms with beautiful furniture and decorations. The people were filed with joy because of all they had built. So, they praised their gods of silver and gold. Their hearts turned fully against the King of heaven and earth.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 119, adapted. Before that time, all humans spoke one language and lived in one area. But then God punished humans so that they spoke many different languages. They no longer understand each other. So, they stopped working on the tower. Then God caused the people to move away from the tower and live in different places all across the earth.

`Look into your heart as you go about your day. Are your thoughts good or evil? What does this information show you about your heart, and why you cannot save yourself?`