---
title:  God Chooses Abram 
date:  28/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We first read about Abram in Genesis 11. (Later, God changes the name of Abram to Abraham.) In Genesis 11, Abram is included in a list of the future sons of Shem. Shem was the oldest son of Noah. The list of names comes right after God sends humans away from the Tower of Babel.

`Read Genesis 12:1–3. What promise does God make Abram in these verses? How do we understand this promise today?`

Hundreds of years after Abram lived, Paul writes to the Galatians. The Galatians have wrong ideas about the Good News. So, Paul tells the Galatians the real meaning of the promise God made to Abram. The promise was really about giving the Good News to everyone on the earth. “You see then, the people who believe God are children of Abraham. The holy writings say that he will put people right with himself if they believe him, even those [people] who are not Jews. It [this promise] was written down before God did it. The holy writings told the good news to Abraham ahead of time. It [the Bible] said, `God will make you a blessing to all nations and people.’ Abraham believed God and was blessed. And so those [people] who believe God are blessed too, along with him” (Galatians 3:7–9, WE).

After God chooses Abraham, the rest of Genesis is mostly about the future children of Abraham. As Genesis shows, these men and women lie or kill. For sure, they are one messed-up family! Yes, these men and women are far from perfect. But God works in their lives anyway to make His promise to Abraham happen. An important part of the promise happens when God chooses Moses to free Israel from Egypt.

`Read Acts 7:20–36. In these verses, Stephen talks about Moses and how he leads the Israelites from Egypt. How does this story show us the promise God made to Abraham?`

The Lord frees the future children of Abram from Egypt. Then God makes the Israelites His people. God chooses them to tell other people on earth about Him and His plan to save them from sin.

`How are we, as Seventh-day Adventists, the same as the Israelites in Bible times? What job has God given to us that He gave to the Israelites?`