---
title:  The Agreement At Sinai 
date:  29/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The story about how God frees Israel from Egypt is powerful: from the destroying angel that passes over Egypt to the Red Sea opening. Wow! Think about the people who live through this time! (Do not forget the ones who die, too: from the oldest sons of the Egyptians to the soldiers of the Egyptian king at the bottom of the Red Sea.) As the Lord says, “ ‘ “You have seen for yourselves what I did to Egypt. You saw how I carried you on the wings of eagles and brought you to myself” ’ ” (Exodus 19:4, NIrV).

Why does the Lord save His people in this powerful way? Moses asks the Israelites the same question: “ ‘ “Has any other god ever tried to go and take a people for himself from inside another nation [country]? No! But you yourselves have seen everything that the Lord your God did for you. He showed you his power and strength. You saw the troubles that tested [showed the thoughts and feelings in the hearts of] the people. You saw miracles and wonders. You saw war and the terrible [surprising] things that happened” ’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:34, ERV).

`Read Exodus 19:4–8. Why does the Lord free His people?`

God frees His people from slavery so they can serve Him and tell other people about Him. God makes an agreement with His people at Sinai. God tells His people what He will do if they obey Him: “ ‘ “If you do this, you will be my own special people. The whole world [all people on the earth] belongs to me, but I am choosing you to be my own special people” ’ ” (Exod. 19:5, ERV).

Do you see the words “special people”? We must be careful not to misunderstand this idea. God does not choose the Israelites to be His special people because they are special or holy. God chooses them because He loves them.

God gives His people some important rules to follow. These rules are part of their agreement (Exodus 20). Moses seals the agreement between God and His people with blood. Then Moses “took the Book of the Agreement and read it for the people to hear. They said, ‘We will do all that the Lord has spoken. We will obey’ ” (Exodus 24:7, NLV).

`Moses puts blood on the book and on the people (read Hebrews 9:19, 20). What is the blood a word picture for? Why is this blood so important to us today?`