---
title:  Falling Back Into Sin And Getting Punished 
date:  30/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“All the people answered together. They said, ‘We will do everything the Lord has said’” (Exodus 19:8, ERV; read also Exodus 24:3; Exodus 24:7.) For sure, the people meant these words each time they said them. But the Bible shows us again and again, how the behavior of the people of God did not match their promise to obey Him. What was the reason that the people disobeyed? The answer comes down to one thing, as we shall see.

`What does God asks His people to do to keep the agreement? For the answer, read Exodus 19:4, 5.`

God asks His people to obey Him and keep His law. This command does not mean that the people are saved by their good behavior (read Matthew 7:24–27; John 14:15; James 2:20; Romans 6:11, 12). But again and again, the children of Israel fail to keep their end of the deal with God.

Early on, the people fall into awful sin, even with Mount Sinai nearby (read Exodus 32:1–6). As history shows, the people disobey God more than they obey Him. That is why they do not enter the Promised Land right away after they leave Egypt. No, the people of God must wander in the desert for 40 years.

`Read Numbers 14:28–35. How does God punish His people when they refuse to trust in Him and do what He asks?`

Then, as now, people disobey God because they fail to trust Him. Sure, people disobey God because of the evil in their hearts. But most of the time we fail to obey God because we do not trust His promises. In the same way, Israel fails to trust in God. What makes their sin worse is that Israel saw all the miracles God did. But they sin anyway. As God says, “ ‘Not one of these people will see the land I promised to give them. They have seen my glory. They have seen the signs I did in Egypt. And they have seen what I did in the desert. But they did not obey me. And they have tested [failed to trust] me ten times’ ” (Numbers 14:22, NIrV).

`Think more about this idea: we often disobey because we do not trust what God tells us. Why is this true? How can we learn to trust God more?`