---
title:  Further Thought
date:  01/10/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read John C. Peckham, Theodicy of Love: Cosmic Conflict and the Problem of Evil (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2018). This book helps us to see in the Bible the worldwide war between good and evil.

“In short, I say that the love of God is at the center of a worldwide war between good and evil. That is why we must have a correct understanding about the love of God. The love of God is the reason why He puts up with any evil at all. And this idea about the love of God helps us to understand how God acts in the war. God follows the rules of His agreement. These rules show us what God will do and will not do.”—John C. Peckham, page 4, adapted.

“God announces that Israel will not enter Canaan for 40 years. This breaks the hearts of Moses, Aaron, Caleb, and Joshua. But these men do not complain. They accept the decision God makes. But the people do not. They cry when God takes away from them blessings they never cared about. They complain about how God acts. The people announce they will go back to Egypt. The people cry for no reason. Now God gives them something to really cry about. But the people do not cry because they are sorry for their sin. Now what if the people show they are sorry for their sin? Then God will not punish them by making them wander for 40 years in the desert. But the people cry only because they are upset with God for punishing them. That is why their crying does not cause God to change His decision about punishing them for 40 years.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 392, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why must love, to be love, be freely given by someone? Some people may say that love is not worth much at all because of all the suffering on earth. What can you say to someone who thinks this way?`

`How is obeying God different from trying to save yourself by your own good behavior?`

`What are some of the ways that the Seventh-day Adventist Church is the same as Israel in Bible times? What same things has God made us responsible for that He made Israel responsible for in Bible times? Why is the answer so important?`