---
title:  "Daniel: Loyal To God"
date:   03/05/2026
---

Daniel is one of the Bible’s mighty heroes. In Daniel 1, we read: “But Daniel decided that God did not want him to eat the king’s food and wine. He knew that it [eating the king’s food and wine] might be [was] against God’s rules. So he [Daniel] asked the king’s special officer that he might not have [for permission not] to eat the king’s food” (Daniel 1:8, EASY). God helped Daniel and his three friends because they chose to be loyal to Him (Daniel 1:17). Daniel was wise (Daniel 1:20; Daniel 2:14, 21, 23, 48). God’s Spirit was in Daniel (Daniel 4:9, 18; Daniel 5:14; Daniel 6:3). God loved Daniel very much (Daniel 9:23; Daniel 10:11). These things show us that Daniel had a strong connection with God.

In Daniel 2, King Nebuchadnezzar orders the captain of his soldiers to kill all the wise men in Babylon. Daniel prays for God’s mercy (Daniel 2:18). Daniel asks God to show him the secret of the king’s dream. When God shows Daniel the dream, Daniel prays right away and thanks God.

`Why did Daniel pray? What can we learn from his prayer? Read Daniel 2:20–23 for the answers.`

As the years passed, several different kings controlled the kingdom. Daniel continued to serve the kings. Daniel “was very good [skilled and talented] at his job. Daniel was so good that the king wanted to make him ruler [manager] over the whole kingdom” (Daniel 6:3, EASY). “Daniel was a man people could trust. He did not cheat the king, and he worked very hard” (Daniel 6:4, ERV). Many people were jealous of Daniel because he had the king’s favor (Daniel 6:5–9). But Daniel stayed loyal to God. He didn’t stop praying. He was not afraid of these evil men.

`What do Daniel 6:10, 11 tell us about Daniel?`

During hard times, Daniel prayed. People wanted to use Daniel’s prayer life as an excuse to kill him. But Daniel didn’t stop praying. He prayed three times a day at his open window. Daniel thanked God and asked for His mercy.

`How does Daniel’s story show you that we have no good reason not to pray?`