---
title:  Enoch Walked And Talked
date:   05/05/2026
---

`What do we know about Enoch from Genesis 5:22–24?`

The Bible doesn’t tell us much about Enoch’s life. But we do know that Enoch “lived to please God” for 300 years. Then Enoch disappeared because God took Enoch to heaven to be with Him. Wow! Enoch’s life showed that God was more important to him than anything else on this earth.

For sure, Enoch prayed all the time just as the Bible tells us to do (Rom. 12:12). Every day, Enoch’s faith and His relationship with God grew strong. The people on this earth became more and more evil. Enoch had a living connection with God. So, Enoch continued to serve God more and more.

“Enoch was busy serving God his whole life. Enoch always prayed. The more work that Enoch had, the more he prayed. . . . Enoch spent time with the people and taught them about God. His life was a living example. After Enoch helped people, he spent time alone with the Lord. Enoch wanted to know more about God. The more time Enoch spent with God, the more He started to look the same as God. . . . Even people who didn’t respect God saw that Enoch looked the same as God. When they looked at Enoch, their hearts filled with wonder.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 86, 87, adapted.

God doesn’t ask us to separate ourselves from everyone and live alone in a cave. Then we won’t be any use to anyone, right? But we can follow Enoch’s example. We can stay busy helping people. We can learn what the people around us need. But we must let Jesus live in our hearts. We must pray to God every day. When we live and pray with Jesus, God can show His love in us to other people.

We can pray anytime, anywhere. God can see and hear us wherever we are (Psalm 139:7–12). God always hears the cries of our hearts (read Lamentations 3:55–57). We can pray in our hearts. We also can say our prayers. When we pray in our hearts, we may not finish our thought or our sentence. Sometimes when we pray in our hearts, we may have trouble thinking about what we want to say. But when we say our prayers, we remember that God is real. He hears us. Also, when we say our prayers, we show that we have something important to talk about with Him.

`As you do your work today, where will you say a prayer to Jesus? What will you say to Him?`