---
title:  Moses, A Holy Leader
date:   06/05/2026
---

For sure, Enoch was close to God in his heart. Moses was, too. We have much more information about Moses than we have about Enoch. We can read many stories about Moses’ conversations with God. Again and again, the Bible shows us the most important part of Moses’ life: his relationship with God. Moses always talked with God. His communication with God was the secret to his success as a leader.

`Read the conversation between Moses and the Lord in Exodus 33:15–23. What are they talking about? Where does this conversation happen?`

Imagine in your mind that you are Moses, and you are talking with God. What do you think Moses felt, saw, and heard? You may wonder why the Israelites didn’t want to talk with God in this personal way. They asked Moses to go to God for them and then come back and tell them what God said (Exodus 20:18–21). When Moses prayed, he asked God for advice. Moses also went to God to get help for the Israelites.

**Two times Moses went to God to get help for family members. What happened in each story? What if Moses didn’t go to God for help? Do you think the stories would end in a different way than they did? Explain.**

`Aaron’s story (Exodus 32:1–14, 31–34; Deuteronomy 9:20)`

`Miriam’s story (Numbers 12:13)`

Miriam is jealous of Moses. She is mean and nasty to him. Moses forgave both Aaron and Miriam. Moses asked God to heal his sister. This story is a powerful example of how God forgives and loves sinners.

`Read Matthew 5:44 and Colossians 3:13. How can you learn to do what these verses say to do? Why is it important that you do so?`