---
title:  Moses Asks God To Save His People
date:   07/05/2026
---

`Read Exodus 32:31, 32. What do these verses teach us about Moses and prayer?`

Again and again, Moses goes to God to get help for the Israelites. Moses went to God when the people were thirsty (Exodus 15:25; Exodus 17:2–6) and hungry (Numbers 11:21, 22). Moses went to God when he was upset and didn’t know what else to do (Numbers 11:11–15).

Right after the Israelites accepted God’s Promise, they worshiped the gold cow. Moses later told the people, “ ‘I prayed, because the Lord had said that he would destroy you. He was so angry with you that I was very afraid. But the Lord listened to me this time too’ ” (Deuteronomy 9:19, EASY).

When the spies came back from the Promised Land, Moses told the people, “ ‘So I lay down on the ground for those 40 days and nights. I prayed to the Lord because he had said that he would destroy you’ ” (Deuteronomy 9:25, EASY).

When God chose Levi to serve Him in His holy tent, Moses told the Israelites, “ ‘I stayed on the mountain for 40 days and nights, as I did the first time. The Lord listened to my prayer. He decided that he would not destroy you’ ” (Deuteronomy 10:10, EASY). God heard Moses’ prayer.

We can learn much from Moses about prayer and holding on tight to God:

- **Moses loved God deeply and understood who He was.** God told Moses who He was in Exodus 34:6: “ ‘I am the Lord! The Lord! I am kind [loving] to people and I forgive them. I do not quickly become angry. My faithful [dependable] love for my people continues for ever, and I am always faithful [can be trusted]’ ” (EASY).
- **Moses had courage and was loyal to God in hard times.** On the way to the Promised Land, Moses trusted God’s power and leading in his own life (Exodus 33:13).
- **Moses asked God to remember His Promise (Exodus 32:13). Moses asked God to keep His promises to His people (Deuteronomy 7:8). Moses remembered God’s leading in the past (Deuteronomy 8:2).**
- **Moses accepted God’s answers to his prayers.** God may not always give us what we want (Deuteronomy 3:23–29). But we always should continue to pray (Luke 18:1–8).

`Who needs your prayers? Why not pray for them now?`