---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   08/05/2026
---

We should pray because we love God so much. When we love God deeply, we will want to share everything in our lives with Him. We will share our joys, our ‘wins,’ worries, sorrows, troubles, and daily needs.

“We may keep very close to God in our hearts. Then when trouble comes without any warning, we will think about God. Share your needs, joys, sorrows, cares, and fears with God. You can’t make Him tired. He knows the number of hairs on your head. He knows everything His children need. . . . God’s heart of love is touched when we are sad and tell Him about our pain and suffering. Take everything to God that confuses you. God keeps planets moving in outer space. God controls everything that happens in heaven and on earth. Anything that gives us peace is important to Him. Nothing is too small for Him to notice. God knows about every awful experience in our past. He can solve any problem. God knows everything that happens to us. He sees every terrible disaster that happens to us. He knows about the things that worry us. He knows what makes us happy. He hears every honest prayer. God is interested in everything that happens in our lives. . . . God’s relationship with each person is so loving and powerful. God loves each one of us. He loves you as if you were the only person He watches over. He loves you as if you were the only person on this earth that Jesus died for.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pages 99, 100, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`What do you think about prayer? Is it a beautiful expe­rience? Or a bad one? Why do you think this way?`

`Read the quote above again. Which part of it touches your heart the most?`

`This week, we studied about the prayer life of Daniel, Enoch, and Moses. Whose prayer life touches your heart the most? Why do you feel that way?`