---
title:  Stewards After Eden
date:   27/01/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “On the contrary, we speak as those approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel. We are not trying to please people but God, who tests our hearts” (1 Thess. 2:4, NIV).

**Introduction**: 2 Cor. 5:10

**Your Money or Your Self**

Which would lead you to greater happiness—more money or more time? A recent study posed this question to about 4,400 people of many different ages, income levels, and occupations. Roughly 65 percent of the respondents replied, “More money.”

The two professors who created the survey then studied the happiness and life satisfaction levels of the entire group of 4,400 respondents. Guess which group turned out to be much happier than the other? People who chose more time were, on average, happier than people who chose more money.*

Maybe more money turns out to be the wrong choice, but it is often the choice with which we are most tempted.

Roughly 65 percent of the respondents replied, “More money.”

When someone begins to talk about stewardship, some of us seem to think it means “church people asking for money.” Therefore, if our underlying desire is to have more money, we’re, maybe, not so happy when someone comes around and asks us to give it away. However, stewardship is not about money. In this quarter we are lear ning that stewardship is the larger concept of our God-given responsibility in life. As human beings, we are automatically the stewards of whatever comes to us in life—time, abilities, wealth, opportunities, possessions, and even the gospel. This week we study what our particular responsibilities are, with respect to these resources, in the sinful world of today. When we first meet God and receive salvation through Jesus, we feel a great excitement about it. We have entered into eternal life. God has taken us into His family. He loves us more than we can imagine. Then some of our previous assumptions about life may run smack into the messages God gives us in the Bible. Our old values and assumptions don’t agree with God’s perspective. How is your sense of who you are in the world? What do you own? What do you want? Should you be taking care of something? Managing your opportunities? What guides you in your decisions and actions?

Here’s something that did not change after sin: God still owns everything. It is all His stuff, and we are His people. One of the consequences of sin is that Satan convinces people that they own the stuff and can and should get more and more of it, at other people’s expense. What about Christians? What about you? Let’s explore.

<sup>* Hal E. Hershfield and Cassie Mogilner Holmes, “What Should You Choose: Time or Money?” New York Times, September 9, 2016, http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/11/opinion/sunday/what-should-you-choose-time-or-money.html</sup>

_Tim Lale, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_