---
title:  Stewards as Guardians
date:   28/01/2018
---

**Logos**: Nehemiah 5; Luke 12:35–48; 1 Cor. 4:1, 2

**Stewardship Responsibilities**

Although most of us think of stewards as servants who take care of a household, the term steward is used broadly in the Bible. As such, stewards can be leaders, servants, or guardians of knowledge. They oversee people, things, property, or information. We will look at the different aspects of stewardship responsibilities as mentioned in the Bible.

**Stewards in the Old Testament** (Gen. 43:19; Nehemiah 5; 1 Kings 16:9; Isa. 22:14–18)

Most stewards in the Old Testament are simply mentioned without much other information (Gen. 43:19; 44:1, 4; 1 Kings 16:9; Isa. 22:14–18). However, we have several stories of leaders who understood that they were stewards of the people even though they weren’t appointed as stewards of a household (Moses, David, and so on).

Nehemiah’s story demonstrates this fact. He was a steward of King Artaxerxes, who appointed him to serve as a governor in the land of Israel. Nehemiah took his role as a steward of the people and the land seriously. When the people came to him crying out against the oppression that was going on, he didn’t just shake it off as a normal plight of the poor. He wasn’t afraid to address the situation with the leaders and wealthy people of the land; he very plainly laid out their lack of stewardship and caring for the less fortunate.

Nehemiah emphasized “brotherhood ” (Neh. 5:8) and, as a steward of the people, gave to them rather than collected even what he could have rightfully acquired as his wages for the job (verses 14–18). Clearly, Nehemiah cared more about the people than his position.

**Stewards in the New Testament** (Luke 12:35–48; 16:1–15; 1 Cor. 4:2; Titus 1:7)

New Testament passages that mention stewards emphasize faithfulness to God in our daily activities. As stewards of time, money, resources, and other people’s possessions, we are given a great responsibility. It is astounding that God trusts us with so much when the majority of humanity mishandles what He has put in our care.

However, these passages remind us that ultimately, we will be held responsible for our management or mismanagement of His property. He says, “For everyone to whom much is given, from him much will be required; and to whom much has been committed, of him they will ask the more” (Luke 12:48, NKJV). It is also a sobering truth that “he who is faithful in what is least is faithful also in much; and he who is unjust in what is least is unjust also in much” (Luke 16:10, NKJV). Some of us are waiting for that one big assignment from God and pushing aside the daily duties as unimportant and therefore not worthy of our attention, not realizing that these “small” assignments indicate whether God can trust us with more.

**Stewards of the Mysteries of God** (Deut. 29:29; 1 Cor. 4:1, 2; Col. 2:2, 3; 1 Tim. 3:9, 16)

Although we are called to be stewards of the people as well as “things,” the Lord also clearly specified that we must be responsible with the “mysteries of God.” In other words, we are responsible for what we teach. Deuteronomy 29:29; 1 Corinthians 4:1, 2; Colossians 2:2, 3; and 1 Timothy 3:9, 16 define the mystery of God as the message about Jesus Christ. Thus, the message about Jesus must be proclaimed by us, and at the same time we must pay attention to how we share the “mystery.”

**Stewards of Spiritual Truth** (1 Tim. 4:6–11, 13–16; 1 Pet. 4:10)

Paul writes to Timothy about holding on to the “doctrine” (1 Tim. 4:6, 13). He is telling him to make sure that he teaches people what the Bible says, not “profane and old wives’ fables” (verse 7, NKJV). The understanding of doctrines adds beauty to the character of God as He is revealed through each part of the Scriptures. For example, studying the sanctuary doctrine demonstrates the love of God more deeply through seeing how God gives Himself to be the Lamb to be sacrificed. Spiritual truth and doctrinal truth are one and the same, and our spirituality must be based on the correct understanding of who God is, rather than on some abstract ideas.

**Our Responsibility as Stewards** (Mic. 6:8; 1 Tim. 5:21)

Paul urges Timothy to do “nothing with partiality.” Paul doesn’t want mediocre stewardship from Timothy. Timothy is a steward of people and is therefore encouraged to do his job with excellence. Our responsibility as leaders and servants of God is to care about the people in our charge, be faithful even with little things, and to make sure that when we teach or proclaim truth about God, we tightly intertwine the mystery of God (message about Jesus) with doctrinal truth. We are called to teach the truth and act justly and lovingly toward others while also implementing excellence in all we do.

**React**

`Which doctrines most demonstrate the beauty of God’s character to you, personally? Which daily duties, which seem unimportant, do you need to embrace and do your best at fulfilling?`

_Andrea Jakobsons, Spencerville, Maryland, USA_