---
title:  Pure Motives, Noble Purpose
date:   29/01/2018
---

**Testimony**: Luke 12:38

“When the Judgment shall sit, and the books shall be opened, there will be many astonishing disclosures. Men will not then appear as they now appear to human eyes and finite judgments. . . . Motives which have been hidden in the dark chambers of the heart will be revealed. Designing ambitions, selfish purposes, will be seen where the outward appearance told only of a desire to honor God and to do good to men. . . . Men of pure motives and true and noble purpose may now be neglected, slandered, and despised; but they will then appear in their true character, and will be honored with the commendation of God. Hypocritical, ambitious teachers may now be admired and exalted of men; but God, who knows the secrets of the heart, will strip off the deceptive covering, and reveal them as they are. Every hypocrite will be unmasked every slandered believer will be justified, and every faithful steward of God will be approved and rewarded.”1

“Motives which have been hidden in the dark chambers of the heart will be revealed.”

“If the wealthy stand the test, and overcome the blemishes upon their character; if as faithful stewards of Christ they render to God the things that are his, it will be said to them, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.’ For ‘he that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much;’ and he will surely be rewarded. . . .

“Many who profess to be followers of Christ, so love the world and the things that are in the world that the divine has disappeared from their characters, and they have become instruments of unrighteousness. In contrast with these are the industrious, honest poor, who stand ready to help those who need help, who would rather suffer themselves to be disadvantaged by their wealthy brethren than to manifest so close and acquisitive a spirit as they manifest; men who esteem a clear conscience, and right, even in little things, of greater value than riches. If there is a benevolent object to call forth means or labor, they are the first to be interested in it. They are so ready to help others, so willing to do all the good in their power, that they do not amass wealth; their earthly possessions do not increase.”2

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, “The Divine Estimate of Worldly Wisdom,” Signs of the Times, May 26, 1887.</sup>
<sup>2. Ellen G. White, “Our Lord’s Estimate of Riches,” Signs of the Times, June 30, 1887.</sup>

_Inda Prescott, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_