---
title:  Israel’s Unfaithfulness Mirrors Our Disobedience
date:   30/01/2018
---

**Evidence**: Hos. 6:7–9

The Israelites had been commissioned by God to be His special people. The responsibilities of the first covenant included demonstrating God’s grace with neighboring peoples and countries—an act of stewardship. Unfortunately, they let God down. Their habit was to adopt the pagan practices and sins of their neighbors. They were unwilling to repent. Close to the point when God placed Israel in Babylonian captivity for seventy years, He asked Hosea the prophet to illustrate the abhorrent nature of sin. Hosea was to marry Gomer, a prostitute, and his book becomes a reflection of the unfaithfulness of that marriage. Israel’s sin mirrored the broken covenant of Adam’s sin.

Down through time, God has always had His chosen people, who represent Him in this sinful world.

A later war ning was given to Israel through the prophet Isaiah (Isa. 22:14– 18). Isaiah records God saying that the sins of Israel were not atoned for. By verse 17 God plans to “hurl” them away (NIV). Israel’s sin was so abhorrent that God would completely dispel the Israelites. In particular, Shebna, the palace administrator, was in a position of responsibility and leadership, but his selfcentered choices not only were displeasing to God but illustrated how God would punish Israel’s sins.

After the creation of the world, Adam and Eve were given responsibility for taking care of everything God had made. Down through time, God has always had His chosen people, who represent Him in this sinful world. As Christians, we continue to have a responsibility for representing God. As stewards, we are responsible not only for the material aspects of this world but also for sharing spiritual truths. The Bible reminds us we should use the resources God provided to aid people around us, not only in material things but in spiritual matters as well.

Agnostics and atheists commonly argue that the Old Testament stories are myths. It may seem that the message given to the Israelites is out of date since it came more than 2,000 years ago. Sometimes Christians argue that it is only the New Testament principles Jesus gave us that we should follow. As our world becomes ever more polytheistic, familiarity with God’s principles throughout the Bible can aid us in answering questions while helping people experience God’s spirituality as an obligation of stewardship.

**React**

`1. How would you react if you heard a prophet warning your people?`

`2. Would the warning prompt you to repent and lead you to reprioritize?`

_Seán K. Robinson, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_