---
title:  Daily Lesson
date:   31/01/2018
---

Titus 1:7–9
How-to
Good Stewards Today



God entrusted us with the care of the material world and the spiritual truths He gave us. We are to fulfill our responsibilities related to that stewardship faithfully, in all things (Luke 16:10, 13). Paul wrote to Titus that stewards should be “hospitable, . . . [lovers] of what is good, soberminded, just, holy, self-controlled, [and] holding fast the faithful word” (Titus 1:8, 9, NKJV); but what does being a good steward look like in the twenty-first century? While the specific answer will vary by person, all good stewards do the following:

1. Good stewards guard their hearts (Prov. 4:23). We focus on the positive in life instead of dwelling on the negative (Phil. 4:8). This does not mean that we ignore the negative things we encounter in our day- to-day lives but, rather, that we deal with the negative in a healthy manner.

What does being a good steward look like in the twenty-first century?

2. Good stewards stay prepared (Eph. 6:11–17). We do so spiritually by engaging in active communication with the One who made us stewards, through daily Bible study and prayer and regular church attendance. We also stay prepared when we, for example, keep track of our finances or plan healthy menus.

3. Good stewards practice self-discipline and take care of themselves (1 Cor. 9:24–27). We remember that our bodies are the temple of God (1 Cor. 3:16). As such, we try to do what’s best for our personal health, be that eating healthfully, abstaining from alcohol, or exercising (or all three). We also do not neglect our mental health. Good stewards should get help when necessary, whether it’s in the form of a running buddy, an accountability partner, or a mental health professional.

4. Good stewards treat others well (1 Pet. 4:10). Stewards are to be othersoriented. While we do take care of ourselves, we strive to think of others first. We do not belittle or cut down other people, even when in disagreement, for they are also God’s children. We maintain healthy boundaries, yes, but we strive to love others as Christ does.

REACT
How do we remain good stewards even when our circumstances change or even worsen? Should good stewards expect rewards or thanks for being good stewards? Why or why not?

{day-reference}
Ashlee Chism, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA

thursday
FEBRUARY 1

