---
title:  Drink From Your Own Well
date:   01/02/2018
---

**Opinion**: 1 Pet. 4:10

Union College offers an interesting class called Wealth and Poverty that examines the two extremes and possible solutions for reducing the gap between them. The class considers both a Christian and a secular perspective, but each side draws a similar conclusion: many people have good intentions but often unknowingly make things worse. It turns out that the people making significant strides to relieve poverty are those with advanced education and specific training.

God has given each of us specific work to do and specific gifts with which to complete that work.

I finished this class feeling guilty and confused. If I wasn’t educated enough to help end poverty, how was I supposed to be a steward for God? After puzzling it for a few months, wondering whether I should change my major to something involving social justice or at least find more volunteer work, I ended up putting the whole thing aside and forgetting about it.

I think that the reaction I had to this class reflects how many people commonly react to the call to stewardship. We either ignore the problems or we throw our money and effort at anything that looks like a good cause, regardless of the results. We often have an idea of stewardship that is unattainable. We find in the Bible the injunctions to help widows and orphans and take care of the earth, and we unconsciously interpret this to mean that we must take care of any and every problem that presents itself. We do not know where to start, but we feel pressure to do something. We may volunteer for things that we aren’t that good at or donate to charities when we know nothing about them.

I do not know where we got this view of stewardship, but it is not from God. If we read our Bibles more closely, we can see that God is not actually asking us to take on the entire world and its problems. Jesus has already done that. Rather, God has given each of us specific work to do and specific gifts with which to complete that work. One person’s job could look very different from another’s, or one might begin that work at a different life stage compared to another. The key is not to get distracted by the responsibilities and work that God has not given to us. In conversation with God, and probably with people who know us well, we can discover the stewardship that He intended for us.

_Brianna Lale, Annecy, France_