---
title:  Do Only What God Gave You
date:   02/02/2018
---

**Exploration**: Colossians 1

**Conclude**

Stewardship is not taking on everything in the world. It is about using our gifts, talents, and resources to be a blessing in the areas at which we excel. As Christians, we are called to do things without partiality and with excellence. When we awake each morning, our main accountability supervisor is God. We pursue life, love, and happiness based on His standards. Therefore, we see all things—wealth, education, and abilities—as tools to be used in His service. We are driven by the need to open others’ understanding to live a more fulfilling life—a life abiding in Christ.

**Consider**

- Doing a survey of your gifts and talents by asking friends, relatives, and peers for their opinions of what your strengths are.
- Reading or watching autobiographies of legendary Christians who used their gifts to transform lives—George Müller, for example.
- Surfing the Internet to find projects in your local community, in which your talents and gifts would be very beneficial, and joining those projects.
- Making a poster or picture of motivational quotes and hanging it on a wall in your home as a reminder of your duties as a good steward.
- Creating a blog or vlog tracking how you have been using your talents and gifts for one month. Share how that has been a blessing to you.
- Inviting your friends out for an evening of fun. Try to have games that explore the gifts and talents of various genres, for example, singing, cooking, poetry, and art.

**Connect**

1. 1 Corinthians 4:1, 2; 1 Timothy 3:9, 16; 1 Peter 4:10.
2. Ellen G. White, Counsels on Health, pp. 274–278; Adventist Home, chapter 72, “Hospitality.”

_Elaine Thompson, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_