---
title:  The Work of the Holy Spirit
date:   18/03/2017
---

### The Work of the Holy Spirit

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON
John 16:8–11; Romans 5:10; Hebrews 4:15, 16; 1 Peter 5:8, 9; 1 John 5:12, 13; Psalm 31:24.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE</p>
> “May the God who gives hope fill you with great joy. May you have perfect peace as you trust in him. May the power of the Holy Spirit fill you with hope” (Romans 15:13, NIrV).

WE NOW COME TO THE END of our study this quarter on the Holy Spirit and living a spiritual life. We will look at one other important work of the Spirit in this last lesson. It is a work that has not yet received our attention. 

Jesus told the disciples that He would go to the Father. And He promised to send them the Holy Spirit: “ ‘But the Father will send the Friend in my name to help you. The Friend is the Holy Spirit. He will teach you all things. He will remind you of everything I have said to you’ ” (John 14:26, NIrV). 

Jesus said that the Holy Spirit is a parakletos, that is, a “helper,” “comforter,” or a “go-between.” In other words, He works in our behalf. At the same time, Jesus also announced the work that this Go-Between would do. The Spirit “ ‘will prove that the world’s people are guilty. He will prove their guilt concerning sin and godliness [holiness] and judgment’ ” (John 16:8, NIrV). 

During our final week, we will study in more detail this special work of the Holy Spirit. We will learn how His work relates to the hope we have that our salvation is certain. We will learn how this work relates to the hope of the Second Coming. 
