---
title:  PROOF OF SIN
date:   19/03/2017
---

### PROOF OF SIN

(John 16:8, 9)

`Read John 16:8, 9. In these verses, what special work does the Holy Spirit do for us? Why is this work so important?` 

Jesus has called the Holy Spirit the paraclete. This word is rich in meaning. It suggests the idea of Helper, Go-Between, and Comforter. 

A comforter is wonderful to have. But a comforter also must be a helper. It is very sad to say, but many Christians often have an accusing spirit instead of a helping one. We must not go around pointing out the sin in the lives of other people. That is not something that Jesus has called us to do. After all, who are we to point out sin in others? We are sinners ourselves. 

`Read Romans 2:1 and Matthew 7:3. What message must we take from these verses?` 

We are God’s witnesses. We are not meant to judge others. We are called upon to tell others about how Jesus has saved us. We are not to condemn (call guilty) others for their wrongs. Pointing out the sins of others is the work of the Holy Spirit. 

It is the Comforter—not us—who shall “ ‘prove that the world’s people are guilty’ ” (John 16:8, NIrV). He will show them their sin. This is because people who have not given their lives to Jesus often do not know what sin truly is. They do not know just how destructive it can be. 

These verses do not teach that the Spirit will list particular sins. Instead, He will go to the sin that is at the heart of all sin: that sin is unbelief in Jesus Christ (John 16:9). We may wonder what causes our deepest unhappiness and feelings of loneliness. The cause is not our own imperfect characters (thoughts; feelings; actions). Instead, the cause is our refusal to accept the Holy Spirit. God sent Him to rescue us from our sad and lonely condition (state). 

So, the main problem of all sin is that we do not believe in Jesus. Jesus is the only One, however, who can save us from our sin and guilt. So, we must not reject Him or His Spirit. Rejecting Jesus and His Spirit is a sin. This sin puts self at the center of things. It refuses to believe the Word of God (the Bible). Only the Holy Spirit can open our hearts and minds to our great need to turn away from sin. Only He can lead us to accept the salvation that is found through Christ’s death in our behalf.
