---
title:  THE NEED TO BE HOLY
date:   20/03/2017
---

### THE NEED TO BE HOLY (Romans 5:10)

John 16:8 says that the Holy Spirit will “ ‘prove that the world’s people are guilty’ ” (NIrV). He also will show that they do not know what being holy means. That is because the world does not know what sin really is. So, they will not know what true holiness is either. 

People who have not given their lives to Christ believe that their own goodness and good works will be enough to save them. They do not want God’s holiness. Instead, they want a goodness that comes from their own outward acts. For example, they want to be saved by obeying the law of God. But obeying the law can never make us clean in God’s eyes. 

In Isaiah 64:6, the prophet (special messenger) Isaiah talks about all the human works of goodness done by the people of his day. He says all their goodness is “dirty rags” (NIrV). In other words, even our best acts are not good enough to save us. 

But the holiness of Jesus is good enough to save us. It satisfies all the claims of the law of God. It counts with God the Father. And we can claim it for ourselves through faith in Jesus Christ alone.

`Read Romans 5:10 and Hebrews 4:15, 16. How is the holiness that Christ gives us related to the work that He does for us before the Father in heaven?`

The law demands holiness. Jesus’ perfect life satisfies this demand. He died in our behalf. He was put to death here on earth. So, the ones who put Him to death rejected Him. But the Father in heaven welcomed Jesus. God brought Jesus back to life from the dead. And by bringing Him to life, God put His approval upon Jesus’ life. This means that God showed that He accepted the work Jesus did to save us. Now Jesus is our Go-Between with the Father (Hebrews 4:15, 16). He put His holy life in place of our “dirty rags.” And He did that because our works are not good enough to save us. 

So, we can live because Jesus lives in us.

God the Father gave glory to Jesus. He showed that Jesus’ death is good enough to save us. The gift of the Spirit, then, is proof that Jesus’ name has been cleared of any false charges that Satan has made. 

`Have you experienced just how “dirty” your own acts of goodness are? What does this teach you about your need for Christ’s holiness instead?`