---
title:  SATAN WAS JUDGED AT THE CROSS
date:   21/03/2017
---

### SATAN WAS JUDGED AT THE CROSS

(John 16:8, 11)

`Read John 16:8, 11. What judgment is Jesus referring to in these verses? Why is this judgment good news?`

Jesus talks about the judgment in John 12:48. He makes it clear that the judgment is very real. But that future judgment is not what Jesus is talking about in John 16:11. Indeed, the wording shows clearly that the Lord is not talking about future judgment. Instead, the part of the judgment that Jesus talks about here is the good news that Satan already has been judged at the cross. The devil is the great enemy of truth. He is now living on borrowed time. Judgment will come. But this verse teaches us that “ ‘the prince of this world’ ” (Satan) now already stands condemned (John 12:31, NIrV). 

`Read 1 Peter 5:8, 9. How does Peter describe Satan in these verses? How can we resist or hold out against him?`

The devil knows that his time is short. He knows that he has been defeated at Calvary. But he is still alive. And he is furious. He wants to destroy as many people as he can. But he is a defeated enemy. Jesus has won the victory. This is because the blood of Jesus makes us free. 

Here is an example from history. It can give us an idea of how hard the devil fights to destroy us. The Allied forces invaded France on June 6, 1944. It was clear that Hitler would lose the war. But the Nazis fought against the Allied forces for the next 11 months until the war ended. And these 11 months were the bloodiest of all. In the same way, Satan knows that he was completely defeated at the cross. But he will not give up. He still fights and tries to destroy as many people as he can. 

We live in difficult times. Peter tells us to be concerned about the threat to our spiritual lives. In other words, we need to be wide awake. But we can lay all our fears and worries on Jesus. He cares for us (1 Peter 5:7, 8).

`Why is judgment good news? Who gives us confidence in the judgment? How can we preach about the judgment in such a way that we fill others with hope instead of fear?`