---
title:  BELONGING TO CHRIST
date:   22/03/2017
---

### BELONGING TO CHRIST

(1 John 5:12, 13)

`Read 1 John 5:12, 13; Romans 8:15–17; and 2 Corinthians 5:5. The Bible says that first we must accept Christ as our Savior. Then we can trust that we have the promise of eternal life. According to these verses, why can we trust this promise?`

The Holy Spirit is the One who leads sinners to Jesus. This is because Jesus died on the cross in our place. His death brought us back to God. And Jesus’ forgiveness sets us free. Now we are free to live new lives. God adopts us as His children. And, finally, we are no longer God’s enemies (Romans 5:10). Instead, the Holy Spirit controls the way we live (Romans 8:4). His control helps us to “think about what the Spirit wants” (Romans 8:5, NIrV). We are no longer ruled by the power of sin. Instead, the Holy Spirit rules our lives. The Spirit of God now lives in us. And we belong to Christ (Romans 8:9). 

As God’s children, we will receive all God has for us. The Spirit tells us that we will share what Jesus receives (Romans 8:17). The Spirit raised Jesus from the dead. And now the Spirit gives us life (Romans 8:10). The Spirit helps us to know in our hearts that we truly belong to God (Ephesians 1:13). “The Spirit marks us as God’s own. We can now be sure that someday we will receive all that God has promised” (Ephesians 1:14, NIrV). Every believer may have this trust and faith (1 John 5:12, 13).

`Read Ephesians 1:13, 14. In these verses, what does it mean to be marked by the Spirit?`

Those who accept Christ are born again. When we do this, we are born “of the Spirit” (John 3:5). This is because the Holy Spirit puts this truth in our hearts. He marks us so that we can trust that we are saved. Then we can experience the joy that comes from being a child of God. 

The Holy Spirit also marks us as belonging to Christ: 

“Talk courage. Talk faith and hope. Then you will be all light in the Lord. Keep thinking of the open door that Christ has set before you. No man can shut this door. God will close the door to all evil. But you must give Him a chance to close it. The enemy will come in like a flood. But the Spirit of the Lord will lift up for you a defense against him.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, April 16, 1889.