---
title:  THE HOLY SPIRIT AND HOPE
date:   23/03/2017
---

### THE HOLY SPIRIT AND HOPE

(1 Corinthians 13:13)

`Read Romans 5:4, 5; Romans 15:13; and 1 Corinthians 13:13. In these verses, how are love and hope related to each other? What part does the Holy Spirit have in giving us love and hope?` 

The Holy Spirit is the One who pours out the love of God on our hearts. He connects us to God. He makes God’s love live in us. And God’s love is unchanging and true. It is the reason for our hope. Without love, there would be no hope. Only love creates hope. 

`Read Psalm 31:24. What does this verse say about how hope affects us?` 

Hope fills us with good feelings and thoughts. It makes us want to do good things. Hope gives new strength. And hope lets us sing and be joyful. So, hope is very important for life. Without hope, what is the purpose of life? 

But having hope is different from believing things will get better in the future. Some people believe that everything will get better: the weather, school grades, how much money they have, and so on. But hope is not blind belief that things will get better. Instead, hope rests on a belief in how faithful God is. Hope rests on a belief that God will keep the promises that He has given in the past. It believes that God will do what He says because He is faithful and true. This is because God has shown that we can depend on Him. And He does not change His mind. So we can trust Him to do what He says. This truth is the reason for our hope. 

There is no question that the reason for our hope is found in Jesus on the cross. After all, we can look to the Cross and see in the most powerful way how real God’s love is for us. The Cross gives to us and to the universe an example of just what our God is truly like. This example cannot be matched or equaled by anything else. We are fallen (sinful). We live only a short time. And we live in a giant universe. But we still can find hope. We cannot find it in ourselves. We cannot find it in whatever “great” things we do. But we can find it in our God, who has shown Himself to us on the cross.

`How is the Advent hope rooted in God’s faithful promises? How does hope influence our lives? How can we develop lifestyles that show hope instead of despair?`