---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   24/03/2017
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

Read parts of Ellen G. White’s Ye [You] Shall Receive Power, especially the October section “Ready for the Spirit.”

Here is a short description of all the things that the Holy Spirit does. The Holy Spirit works in harmony with God the Father and God the Son to save us. The Holy Spirit wakes us up from our spiritual deaths. He leads us to an awareness of our sinfulness. He opens our eyes to the fact that we are lost. He fills us with the desire for change. And He leads us to Jesus Christ, who alone can fill the needs of our souls. 

The Spirit gives us hope that we are saved. He always points us to Jesus and to what Jesus has done for us. He helps us become more like Jesus. He keeps us faithful in our walk with God. He helps us to do God’s will (plan for our lives). And He gives us the power to be workers for God. 

The Holy Spirit also helped men to write the Bible. The Bible is important as our safe guide and rulebook for our Christian life. It shows us the truth. 

Where, then, would we be without the Holy Spirit? What could we do without the Holy Spirit? We would be miserable and lost without Him. We could do nothing that would give God the glory and honor. Thanks be to Jesus for having promised and sent the Holy Spirit. “The Holy Spirit was the greatest of all gifts that Jesus could ask from His Father. He asked for it to uplift His people.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Ye [You] Shall Receive Power, page 13.

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`Spend more time on thinking about the answers to these questions: What is sin? What is holiness? We believe the Bible to be the Word of God. So, why should that make our understanding of what sin and holiness are different from those who do not believe in the Bible? How is our belief different from theirs? What does the Bible teach us about sin and about holiness that other ideas and beliefs do not?`

`What part of the work of the Holy Spirit has been most valuable to you? Why was it so important? Share your answer with your class. How has this changed your life?`

`In class, talk about the hope that we have in Jesus. Suppose someone were to ask about the reason for “the hope you have” (1 Peter 3:15, NIrV). What answer would you give, and why?`