---
title:  Role Models
date:  08/02/2026
---

All of us have, at one time or another, found people we admire and want to emulate. For children, it’s especially important that they have good role models. Ideally, this would be their father and mother. As they grow, they will find other role models, perhaps connected with their chosen career or even in biographies they have read. They can also learn how various Bible characters dealt with challenges and compare them to their own life experiences.

Unfortunately, in today’s media, bad role models abound. We are bombarded with clickbait—stories detailing the salacious problems and messed-up lives of celebrities. Paul’s readers in Philippi, though of course not dealing with the internet, nevertheless faced similar challenges.

The fact is, the world Paul lived in was very corrupt, immoral, and evil, as is ours today. There has always been—and always will be, at least until the end—more than enough evil to go around. The question for us is: How do we respond to it?

`Read Philippians 3:17–19. How are good and bad role models described in this passage? What keys are given to distinguish between them?`

We must not miss Paul’s love toward those with whom he disagrees—he weeps over them! Notice also that he doesn’t call them his enemies but “enemies of the cross of Christ” (Phil. 3:18). Paul recognized that much larger issues were at stake, namely, how the Cross breaks down barriers and places us all on the same level, as sinners in need of a Savior (see Eph. 2:11–14).

Also, not to be overlooked is how Paul urges the Philippians to focus on the good examples, not the bad; to observe carefully those whose manner of life is much like his own. Interestingly, Paul uses similar language in warning the Romans to “note those who cause divisions and offenses, contrary to the doctrine which you learned, and avoid them” (Rom. 16:17, NKJV). The deceivers in Rome are described as those who “do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ but their own belly” (Rom. 16:18, NKJV).

`Though, of course, Jesus is the only perfect pattern, there are others who, at least in certain areas, could be good role models. At the same time, what kind of role model do you present to others?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The people of God—the true Israel—though scattered throughout all nations, are on earth but sojourners, whose citizenship is in heaven.\
The condition of being received into the Lord’s family is coming out from the world, separating from all its contaminating influences. The people of God are to have no connection with idolatry in any of its forms. They are to reach a higher standard. We are to be distinguished from the world, and then God says, “I will receive you as members of My royal family, children of the heavenly King.” As believers in the truth we are to be distinct in practice from sin and sinners. Our citizenship is in heaven.\
We should realize more clearly the value of the promises God has made to us, and appreciate more deeply the honor He has given us. God can bestow no higher honor upon mortals than to adopt them into His family, giving them the privilege of calling Him Father. There is no degradation in becoming children of God.\
We are strangers and pilgrims in this world. We are to wait, watch, pray, and work. The whole mind, the whole soul, the whole heart, and the whole strength are purchased by the blood of the Son of God. We are not to feel it our duty to wear a pilgrim’s dress of just such a color, just such a shape, but neat, modest apparel, that the word of inspiration teaches us we should wear. If our hearts are united with Christ’s heart, we shall have a most intense desire to be clothed with His righteousness. Nothing will be put upon the person to attract attention, or to create controversy.\
Christianity—how many there are who do not know what it is! It is not something put on the outside. It is a life inwrought with the life of Jesus. It means that we are wearing the robe of Christ’s righteousness.\
Citizens of heaven will make the best citizens of earth. A correct view of our duty to God leads to clear perceptions of our duty to our fellow men.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 57.

We cannot afford by our example to seem to sanction wrong­doing. There is a heaven to win and a hell to shun. In large churches of believers . . . there is special danger of lowering the standard. Where many are gathered together some are more liable to grow careless and indifferent than they would be if isolated and made to stand alone. But even under adverse circumstances we may watch unto prayer and set an example in godly conversation that will be a powerful testimony for the right. . . . We cannot afford to speak words that would discourage our fellow pilgrims in the Christian pathway. Christ has given His life in order that we might live with Him in glory. Throughout eternity He will bear in His hands the prints of the cruel nails by which He was transfixed to the cross of Calvary. . . .\
We are now fitting up for the future, eternal life; and soon, if faithful, we shall see the gates of the city of our God swing back on their glittering hinges that the nations who have kept the truth may enter in to their eternal inheritance.—In Heavenly Places, p. 299.