---
title:  “Stand Fast in the Lord”
date:  09/02/2026
---

`Read Philippians 3:20, 21. How does Paul vividly describe what Christian “citizenship” looks like?`

Unlike the enemies of the Cross, who “set their mind on earthly things” and have no greater god than their bellies (Phil. 3:19), Christian citizenship is in heaven, and our ruler is Jesus Christ Himself. To underscore the point, Paul highlights the need for “these humble bodies of ours” (Phil. 3:21, NET), subject to disease, deterioration, and death, to be transformed to be like Christ’s glorious resurrection body.

`How do the following passages describe the glorified state?`

•	Job 19:25–27

•	Luke 24:39

•	1 Cor. 15:42–44

•	1 Cor. 15:50–54

•	Col. 3:4

In the end, through Jesus, death, “the last enemy,” will be destroyed (1 Cor. 15:26). And that is our greatest hope, the ultimate promise that we have been given in Jesus—not only the end of death but a whole new body, even a “glorious body” (Phil. 3:21, ESV).

In a book about how to find “salvation” without God, which argued, rather foolishly, that overcoming the fear of death is “salvation,” author Luc Ferry does admit that Christianity “enables us not only to transcend the fear of death, but also to beat death itself. And by doing so in terms of individual identity, rather than anonymity or abstraction, it seems to be the only version that offers a truly definitive victory of personal immortality over our condition as mortals.”—Ferry, A Brief History of Thought (New York: HarperCollins, 2011, Kindle edition), p. 90. Quite an admission, coming from an atheist.

Thus, for Paul, our heavenly citizenship includes the promise of the resurrection and eternal life in a whole new existence that we can barely imagine now.

`Why is the promise of eternal life so crucial to all that we believe? What could this world possibly offer that’s worth forfeiting what Christ offers us?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The truth of God obeyed, the living by every word of God, is alone sufficient to make any of us stand in these evil times. Satan is playing the game of life for the soul. . . .\
There are opportunities and advantages which are within the reach of all to strengthen the moral and spiritual powers. The mind can be expanded and ennobled and should be made to dwell upon heavenly things. . . . Unless it flows in a heavenward direction it becomes an easy prey to the temptation of Satan to engage in worldly projects and enterprises that have no special connection with God. And all zeal and devotion and restless energy and feverish desire are brought into this work, and the devil stands by and laughs to see human effort wrestling so perseveringly for an object that it will never gain, which eludes its grasp. . . . Schemes and projects which Satan invents ensnare the soul, and poor, deceived human beings go on blindfolded to their own ruin. . . .\
There is one safeguard against Satan’s deceptions and snares, that is the truth as it is in Jesus. The truth planted in the heart, nourished by watchfulness and prayer, nourished by the grace of Christ, will give us discernment. The truth must abide in the heart, be felt in its power in spite of all the alluring enchantments of Satan, and your experience and mine must be that the truth can purify, guide, and bless the soul. . . .\
The enemy is on the track of every one of us, and if we would resist temptations which assail us from without and from within, we need to make sure we are on the Lord’s side, that His truth is in our hearts, that it keeps watch in our souls, ready to sound an alarm and summon us to action against every enemy. Without this defense amid unseen foes we shall be like the willow bending to the blast, driven of the wind and tossed. But if Christ abides in the soul we may be strong in the Lord and in the power of His might.—That I May Know Him, p. 301.

Strength comes by exercise. All who put to use the ability which God has given them will have increased ability to devote to His service. Those who do nothing in the cause of God will fail to grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth. A man who would lie down and refuse to exercise his limbs would soon lose all power to use them. Thus the Christian who will not exercise his God-given powers not only fails to grow up into Christ, but he loses the strength which he already has; he becomes a spiritual paralytic. It is those who, with love for God and their fellow men, are striving to help others that become established, strengthened, settled, in the truth. The true Christian works for God, not from impulse, but from principle; not for a day or a month, but during the entire period of life. . . .\
O that each one would place a proper estimate upon the capabilities that have been given him of God! Through Christ you may climb the ladder of progress, and bring every power under the control of Jesus. . . . In your own strength you can do nothing; but in the grace of Jesus Christ, you can employ your powers in such a way as to bring the greatest good to your own soul, and the greatest blessing to the souls of others. Lay hold of Jesus, and you will diligently work the works of Christ, and will finally receive the eternal reward.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 306.