---
title:  Rejoice in the Lord—Always
date:  10/02/2026
---

`Read Philippians 4:4–7. How are we to experience “the peace of God”?`

After touching on, again, the need for unity (Phil. 4:1–3), Paul moves on to another theme: rejoicing in the Lord (Phil. 4:4–7).

How many times have you been stressed over things that ultimately melted effortlessly away as quickly as they appeared? For good reason, Jesus repeatedly emphasized that we should not worry (see Matt. 6:25–34, Matt. 10:19), and Peter reminds us that we can cast all our worries or anxieties (ESV) on the Lord, “because He cares for you” (1 Pet. 5:7, ESV). In fact, the increasing problems worldwide should inspire us with hope that the coming of the Lord is near (compare Matt. 24:33, Luke 21:28, James 5:8).

The antidote to anxiety in everything, including every situation, is sending up a prayer of faith (Phil. 4:6, 7). Clearly, we are to believe and act on our prayer as having been answered even before we see its realization, because we are to pray “with thanksgiving.” Also added is the word “supplication” (Greek: _deēsis_), signaling times of extremity and urgency (see, for example, Luke 1:13, Phil. 1:19, 1 Tim. 5:5, James 5:16). Our prayers are still “requests,” but we can know our petitions have been received as long as we ask “according to His will” (1 John 5:14, NKJV). Then we can rest and have peace, knowing that all our requests are in God’s hands.

`How do the following passages enlarge our understanding of God’s peace? Ps. 29:11, Isa. 9:6, Luke 2:14, John 14:27, 1 Cor. 14:33.`

God’s peace is something the world can never give, because God’s peace comes from the assurance that we have the gift of eternal life through Jesus our Savior (Rom. 5:1, Rom. 6:23). This peace impacts every aspect of life and “surpasses all understanding” (Phil. 4:7, NKJV). It cannot be grasped by the mind alone, as the Greek word _nous_ (minds) used here indicates.

`How would you describe to someone what it means to experience “the peace of God”?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

To the Christian is granted the joy of gathering rays of eternal light from the throne of glory, and of reflecting these rays not only on his own path, but on the paths of those with whom he associates. By speaking words of hope and encouragement, of grateful praise and kindly cheer, he may strive to make those around him better, to elevate them, to point them to heaven and glory, and to lead them to seek, above all earthly things, the eternal substance, the immortal inheritance, the riches that are imperishable.\
“Rejoice in the Lord alway,” says the apostle, “and again I say, Rejoice.” Wherever we go, we should carry an atmosphere of Christian hopefulness and cheer; then those who are out of Christ will see attractiveness in the religion we profess; unbelievers will see the consistency of our faith. We need to have more distinct glimpses of heaven, the land where all is brightness and joy. We need to know more of the fullness of the blessed hope. If we are constantly “rejoicing in hope,” we shall be able to speak words of encouragement to those whom we meet. . . .\
Not alone in daily association with believers and unbelievers are we to glorify God by speaking often one to another in words of gratitude and rejoicing. As Christians, we are exhorted not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together, for our own refreshing, and to impart the consolation we have received. In these meetings, held from week to week, we should dwell upon God’s goodness and manifold mercies, upon His power to save from sin. In features, in temper, in words, in character, we are to witness that the service of God is good. Thus we proclaim that “the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul.”\
Our prayer and social meetings should be seasons of special help and encouragement. . . . This can best be done by having a fresh experience daily in the things of God, and by not hesitating to speak of His love in the assemblies of His people. . . .\
If we thought and talked more of Jesus, and less of ourselves, we should have much more of His presence. If we abide in Him, we shall be so filled with peace, faith, and courage, and shall have so victorious an experience to relate when we come to meeting, that others will be refreshed by our clear, strong testimony for God. These precious acknowledgments to the praise of the glory of His grace, when supported by a Christlike life, have an irresistible power, which works for the salvation of souls.—Reflecting Christ, p. 220.