---
title:  Think on These Things . . .
date:  11/02/2026
---

The peace that surpasses understanding will also “guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus” (Phil. 4:7, NKJV). Our inner life needs protection. Interestingly, Philippians 4:7 uses a military metaphor in connection with God’s peace. The Greek verb (phroureō) is used to describe a garrison of soldiers guarding a city against invasion (2 Cor. 11:32; compare Acts 9:24).

Another very important aspect of inner peace involves living in harmony with God’s will. “Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them” (Ps. 119:165).

`Read Philippians 4:8, 9. What specific actions are urged?`

Paul introduces Philippians 4:8, 9 with “furthermore” (GNV) and a list of six virtues, followed by a succinct summary of them and encouragement to imitate Paul’s example. This closing cross-cultural exhortation fits well within the Greco-Roman setting of Philippi, with its dual emphasis on virtue and example. Interestingly, though, the focus is on biblical virtues, which is quite obvious from Paul’s omission of the four cardinal Greek virtues (prudence, justice, temperance, and courage).

1.	True—not accidentally, the list begins with the cardinal biblical virtue of truth, which Jesus (“Truly, I say . . .”) and the whole New Testament frequently emphasize (see, for example, Acts 26:25, Rom. 1:18, 1 Cor. 13:6, 2 Cor. 4:2, Eph. 4:15, 1 Tim. 3:15, James 1:18, 1 Pet. 1:22, 1 John 2:21).

2.	Noble—the Greek word refers to a personal virtue (compare its other uses in 1 Tim. 3:8, 11; Titus 2:2, where it is translated as “reverent” in the NKJV).

3.	Right—this virtue is defined by God’s righteous character (compare its use in Phil. 1:7).

4.	Pure—thought and action flowing from God’s justifying righteousness received by faith (see 1 John 3:3).

5.	Lovely—aesthetic beauty, seen widely in God’s creation.

6.	Admirable—“kind and winsome and gracious” (AMPC).

Paul gives two further qualifications, lest a pagan meaning be imputed to any of these virtues: “If anything is excellent or praise­worthy” (Phil. 4:8, NIV), we are to think on these heavenly virtues. Then, to remove all doubt and potential misunderstanding, Paul calls us to practice what we have learned, received, heard, and seen from his own example (Phil. 4:9).

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

If the mind is educated to contemplate heavenly things, the appetite will not be satisfied with that which is cheap and common. We must bear in mind that the Lord is prepared to do great things for us, but we must be prepared to receive these things by emptying from the heart all self-sufficiency and self-confidence. The Lord alone is to be exalted. “Them that honour me,” He says, “I will honour” (1 Samuel 2:30). We need not be on the strain for recognition, for “the Lord knoweth them that are his.” Those who do not put confidence in themselves, but look with distrust upon their own work, are the ones to whom the Lord will reveal His glory. They will make the best use of the blessings received. All who drink of the pure streams of Lebanon, will have the water of life springing up in them, and this cannot be repressed. . . .\
The Lord knows that if we look to man, and trust to man, we are leaning on an arm of flesh. He invites our confidence. There is no limit to His power. Think of the Lord Jesus, and His merits and His love, but do not seek to find the defects and dwell upon the mistakes that others have made. Call to your mind the things worthy of your recognition and your praise; and if you are sharp to discern errors in others, be more sharp to recognize the good and praise the good. You may, if you criticize yourself, find things just as objectionable as that which you see in others. Then let us work constantly to strengthen one another in the most holy faith.\
In Paul’s epistle to the Philippians, he says, “Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons: Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy, for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now; being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ” (Philippians 1:1–6). Let us all make this spirit ours.—This Day With God, p. 300.