---
title:  Keys for Contentment
date:  12/02/2026
---

`Read Philippians 4:10–13, 19. What keys does Paul reveal for a contented, happy life?`

When extreme circumstances strike (hunger, illness, injury, loss), one begins to reflect on the things that really count and to dwell on the blessings that are usually taken for granted. When we are “brought low” (Phil. 4:12, ESV), “in need” (NIV), or left with “almost nothing” (NLT) is when faith rises to the occasion.

Conversely, when we “live in prosperity” (NASB), it should always be with the recognition that it could vanish in an instant (see Prov. 23:5). As both Job and Paul remind us, we brought nothing into the world when we were born, and we will take nothing with us to the grave (Job 1:21, 1 Tim. 6:7).

Note the following Bible promises:

•	Psalm 23:1—“The Lord is my shepherd; I have everything I need” (GNB).

•	Matthew 6:32—“Your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things” (NKJV).

•	1 Peter 5:7—“Give all your worries and cares to God, for he cares about you” (NLT).

•	Philippians 4:19—“My God shall supply all your need according to His riches in glory by Christ Jesus” (NKJV).

And, most wonderful of all: “I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me” (Phil. 4:13, NKJV). Perhaps none of us can fully grasp what “all things” entails. Certainly, as with any request for God’s help and strength, we must ask according to His will. But many times, we don’t even ask for things we know fit His will. That’s why James 4:2 says, “You do not have, because you do not ask” (ESV).

Here are some things we can ask for confidently because we know they are in harmony with God’s will:

•	Salvation for a loved one or friend (1 Tim. 2:3, 4)

•	Courage to share our faith (Rev. 22:17)

•	Forgiveness when we confess and forsake wrong (1 John 1:9)

•	Strength to obey God’s commandments (Heb. 13:20, 21)

•	Love for those who hate and mistreat us (Matt. 5:44)

•	Wisdom for challenging situations (James 1:5)

•	Understanding the truth in God’s Word (John 8:32)

`How do you deal with the things that you have prayed for that have not yet come, or perhaps might never come?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Pure religion brings peace, happiness, contentment; godliness is profitable to this life and the life to come.\
That unrest and discontent which ends in fretting and complaining is sinful; but the discontent with one’s self which urges on to more earnest effort for greater improvement of the mind for a broader field of usefulness is praiseworthy. This discontent does not end in disappointment but in gathering force for a higher and more extended field of usefulness. Only be ever balanced by firm religious principle and a sensitive conscience, having ever the fear of God before you, and you will certainly prosper in becoming fitted for a life of usefulness.\
We should live for the next world. It is so wretched to live a haphazard, aimless life. We want an object in life—to live for a purpose. God help us all to be self-sacrificing, less self-caring, more forgetful of self and selfish interest; and to do good, not for the honor we expect to receive here, but because this is the object of our life and will answer the end of our existence. Let our daily prayer go up to God that He will divest us of selfishness. . . .\
I have seen that those who live for a purpose, seeking to benefit and bless their fellow men and to honor and glorify their Redeemer, are the truly happy ones on the earth, while the man who is restless, discontented, and seeking this and testing that, hoping to find happiness, is always complaining of disappointment. He is always in want, never satisfied, because he lives for himself alone. Let it be your aim to do good, to act your part in life faithfully.\
Be anxious and earnest to grow in grace, seeking for a more distinct and intelligent understanding of the will of God concerning you, striving earnestly for the mark of the prize before you. Christian perfection alone will win the spotless robes of character which will entitle you to stand before the throne of God among the blood-washed throng, bearing the palm branch of everlasting victory and eternal triumph.—Our High Calling, p. 242.

The soul that is brought into personal contact with Christ becomes a holy temple unto the Lord; for Jesus is made unto the believer wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. He who has fully surrendered to God has a consciousness of Christ’s saving presence. He is a possessor of spiritual patience, and has the rest of soul that comes from learning of Him who is meek and lowly of heart. Trusting in Jesus to be his efficiency and righteousness, his soul is filled with a pleasant contentment.\
What is the joy of the Christian? It is the result of the consciousness of the presence of Christ. What is the love of the Christian? It is the reflection of the love of Christ. It is the effect of the operation of the Holy Spirit. Looking to the cross of Calvary, we see Jesus dying for the sins of the world, in order that by His death, life and immortality might be brought to light in behalf of the contrite soul. Jesus is all in all, and without Him we can do nothing. Without Christ, spiritual life would be impossible.—Ye Shall Receive Power, p. 83.