---
title:  Further Thought
date:  13/02/2026
---

“Those only who are constantly receiving fresh supplies of grace, will have power proportionate to their daily need and their ability to use that power. Instead of looking forward to some future time when, through a special endowment of spiritual power, they will receive a miraculous fitting up for soul winning, they are yielding themselves daily to God, that He may make them vessels meet for His use. Daily they are improving the opportunities for service that lie within their reach. Daily they are witnessing for the Master wherever they may be, whether in some humble sphere of labor in the home, or in a public field of usefulness.

“To the consecrated worker there is wonderful consolation in the knowledge that even Christ during His life on earth sought His Father daily for fresh supplies of needed grace; and from this communion with God He went forth to strengthen and bless others. . . .

“Every worker who follows the example of Christ will be prepared to receive and use the power that God has promised to His church for the ripen­ing of earth’s harvest.”—Ellen G. White, God’s Amazing Grace, p. 117.

“God knows our wants, and has provided for them. The Lord has a treasure house of supplies for His children, and can give them what they need under all circumstances. Then why do we not trust Him? He has made precious promises to His children on condition of faithful obedience to His precepts. There is not a burden but He can remove, no darkness but He can dispel, no weakness but He can change to power, no fears but He can calm, no worthy aspiration but He can guide and justify.

“We are not to look at ourselves. The more we dwell upon our own imperfections, the less strength we shall have to overcome them.”—Ellen G. White, That I May Know Him, p. 224.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think of some of your brightest instances of answered prayer. How have they helped you experience God’s peace that surpasses understanding? What about those prayers that are not answered? How can you still experience the promised peace?`

`In the context of Philippians 4:8, what do you spend your time thinking about? How well does what you think about strengthen your faith and walk with the Lord?`

`Discuss the final quotation above. What are the implications of the statement, “The more we dwell upon our own imperfections, the less strength we shall have to overcome them”? What is the key, then, to overcoming?`