---
title: 'Mercy in Judgment'
date: 16/11/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Joshua 10, 11

**Mercy in Judgment**

While the book of Joshua is a book that records judgment, it’s also a book that records mercy. The destruction of the Canaanite nations was a judgment that God delayed for four hundred years (Gen. 15:13–16). Joshua’s story illustrates that mercy precedes God’s judgments. For four hundred years, every inhabitant of Canaan lived under God’s mercy, but God would not allow them to continue sinking into sin and corruption forever. The Canaanites finally reached a point where God determined He could permit them to go no further. However, even as judgment came, God showed mercy to those who were receptive.

Before the conquest of Canaan began, God gave specific instructions through Moses regarding who among the idolatrous nations had to be destroyed because of their debased practices and who could be spared if they surrendered. God named seven nations that had to be completely destroyed (Deut. 7:1, 2). For the other peoples outside of those seven nations, God made provision for Israel to make peace if they were willing (20:10, 16–18). Even after God pronounced judgment against these seven nations, His judgments could be reversed if they repented. Even after He has publicly announced His judgments, He will relent if people repent. For example, in Jonah’s time, the inhabitants of Nineveh were doomed to destruction, yet they received God’s mercy because they turned toward God in humility (Jon. 3:4–10). The book of Jeremiah assures us that God will spare any nation from judgment when that nation forsakes evil (Jer. 18:7, 8). Unlike the people of Nineveh, the Canaanites received no mercy because their hearts were hardened—except for Rahab and her family and the Gibeonites in the hill country.

Among all the cities of Canaan, only the Gibeonites made peace with Israel (Josh. 11:19, 20). The Gibeonites belonged to the Hivite nation (9:3, 7) and were therefore among the seven nations receiving divine judgment. Despite the Gibeonites employing a backward way of pleading for mercy (vv. 3–6), God still accepted them. However, because of their dishonesty, Joshua assigned them to be water carriers and woodcutters for the sanctuary. They were limited to these duties as a punishment for their lie (vv. 22, 23). Even so, within this curse was a blessing. Having sanctuary responsibilities, they gave up their idols and became an integral part of the Israelite system of worship.

The Gibeonites’ later history shows the privileges they gained and the loyalty they maintained toward Israel. Even after the armies of Babylon destroyed Jerusalem centuries later, the sons of Gibeon returned with Nehemiah to help rebuild Jerusalem (Neh. 7:25). The Gibeonites could’ve continued enjoying the luxuries of Babylon, but by returning with Nehemiah, they demonstrated faith in the God of Israel and the destiny of Jerusalem.

Like the Gibeonites who knew that Israel’s God had decreed their destruction, every sinner in this world lives under a death sentence (Rom. 6:23). Only by the mercy of God can any of us find a place of belonging in His family. We might approach God with fear and lying and all kinds of other baggage, but God looks for every opportunity to show His mercy toward those who come to Him.

When the neighboring kings learned that the Gibeonites had defected to the Israelites, they immediately marshaled all their armies and turned against the Gibeonites. Joshua responded promptly, for not only had Israel made a treaty with the Gibeonites but Gibeon was also strategically located. This city guarded the passes to central and southern Palestine. Whoever wanted to control Canaan needed to hold Gibeon. Israel marched through the night from Gilgal, arriving in Gibeon at daybreak. Their sudden arrival startled the Canaanite alliance. On this battlefield, protecting the Gibeonites who had very recently been doomed to destruction, God worked one of the most extraordinary miracles in the entire Bible.

### inScribe

_Write out Joshua 10:1–15 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map all of Joshua 10, 11._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `