---
title: 'The Lord Fought for Israel'
date: 17/11/2025
---

### inGest

The element of surprise gave Joshua and his army a strategic advantage, but God’s blessing is what gave them a decisive edge. The Lord strengthened Joshua for the battle with these words: “Do not fear them, for I have delivered them into your hand; not a man of them shall stand before you” (Josh. 10:8). Joshua faced a fearsome coalition of five Amorite kings and their armies, but he remained focused on God’s power, not the strength of his enemies.

The Amorite troops suffered severe losses because of the Israelites’ unexpected attack, but a storm dropping large hailstones caused even more casualties (v. 11). The combination of the sword and the hailstones allowed Israel to gain the victory that day. Human effort cooperated with Divine power. We’re often tempted to think faith allows us to stand on the sidelines as spectators while God does all the heavy lifting, but God calls us to get involved. Faith requires action (James 2:18).

As Joshua watched the sun, he calculated that the day would end before the battle was over and the enemy might slip away in the darkness. In one of the boldest prayers in the Bible, Joshua prayed for the sun to stand still in the sky so Israel’s army would have sufficient time to win a decisive victory (Josh. 10:12–14). God granted Joshua’s bold request, pausing the rotation of the earth and holding the sun still in the sky. However, this dramatic miracle didn’t cause Israel to diminish their efforts. Joshua led the charge against the Canaanites, wading into the fray with focused determination. While God wants us to lean on Him for strength, support, guidance, and assurance, our faith in His capabilities should never be an excuse to sink into inactivity. Israel fought hard and long because they trusted that God was with them.

The Bible says, “the LORD fought for Israel” (v. 14). In this case, God had promised them victory (v. 8). Today, we too can pray that God will fight our battles against Satan and ourselves, for He has promised us victory in His name (James 4:7). However, in situations where God doesn’t promise victory, such as in interpersonal conflicts, we must remain humble and trust God to judge what’s right. Our perceived enemies might also be praying that God fights for them. We must not expect God to always fight for us in the precise way we expect. Ultimately, we should surrender the battle to the Lord and ask for God’s will to be done, even when that may mean a different outcome than what we might want.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`When has God fought your battles for you? What lessons did you learn?`