---
title: 'The Strength of Horses'
date: 18/11/2025
---

### inTerpret

After Joshua finished conquering the city-states in southern Canaan, he moved his troops northward, where he faced even stronger military opposition. The people in the northern territories had built up well-equipped armies and formed formidable alliances. Their armies were “as many people as the sand that is on the seashore in multitude, with very many horses and chariots” (Josh. 11:4). As Joshua faced another difficult battle, God again gave him assurance: “Do not be afraid because of them, for tomorrow about this time I will deliver all of them slain before Israel” (v. 6).

Despite facing stronger enemies than ever before, Israel’s greatest danger was not defeat. Their greatest temptation was to become proud of their victories and place their trust in the new horses and chariots they had captured. To guard them against relying on their own strength, God gave strict instructions to hamstring all the horses they captured and burn all the chariots that came into their possession. Hamstringing a horse meant severing the main tendon in the back of the leg so that the horse was crippled and unsuitable for battle. Sometimes the best way to resist temptation is to remove the temptation and restrict access to it. God knew that acquiring large quantities of battle-ready horses and chariots was not what the Israelites needed.

The issue wasn’t really about the horses or the chariots; it was about who Israel would look to for their strength. While all the surrounding nations placed their faith in their military might, Israel had to demonstrate that their faith was in something else. The Psalmist put it aptly: “Some trust in chariots, and some in horses; But we will remember the name of the LORD our God” (20:7). God wants to give His people a different kind of victory. He wants to do the completely unexpected for His people. From a human standpoint, hamstringing the horses and burning the chariots was a very illogical thing to do. No military general in their right mind would decline such strategic gains. However, God plays by a different set of rules. His people sometimes do radical things that can be explained only by their trust in God and His plans.

Today, the world has a lot of expectations about what success should look like and how a person should pursue a career. Is it possible that God is looking for young people who will turn the world’s expectations upside down and live in a way that is radical and completely unexpected?

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`When has God called you to do things that don’t necessarily make sense to other people?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Joshua 10, 11. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._