---
title: 'Complete Control Over Nature'
date: 20/11/2025
---

### inVite

The Bible presents God as having complete control over nature. Creation is under its Creator’s authority. God is not bound by the laws of science as we understand them. The sun, which so many ancient cultures deeply respected as a god, was obedient to Israel’s God. Just as the miracle of the sun standing still for Israel challenged the ancient pagans’ confidence in the sun god, so the other miracles of the Bible confront the naturalistic worldview that so many believe today. Naturalism rejects supernatural or spiritual explanations of anything by teaching that nature is all that exists. The creation of the world, the events of the Flood, the plagues that fell on Egypt, the sun standing still for Joshua, and the many other supernatural events recorded in the Bible cannot be explained by science and are rejected in naturalistic worldview.

Even some Christians try to dismiss the Bible’s miracles, but those who attempt to provide a naturalistic explanation for every miracle dishonor Jesus, whose works cannot be explained except by the supernatural. Jesus healed the sick, gave sight to the blind, restored hearing to the deaf, cleansed the lepers, calmed the storm, walked on water, provided food for thousands of people from a boy’s meal, and raised the dead to life. These miracles provide important evidence of Christ’s heavenly origin, and they leave people who reject Him with no excuse (John 3:2; 6:36; 14:11). Jesus’ miracles caused His fame to spread far and fast and gave credibility to the things He taught.

Whereas Joshua always pointed to God as his only source of power, Jesus claimed to be the source of power. He said, “I am the resurrection and the life” (John 11:25). “I am the way, the truth, and the life” (14:6). Jesus made claims no other true prophet had ever made. “Therefore My Father loves Me, because I lay down My life that I may take it again. No one takes it from Me, but I lay it down of Myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again” (10:17, 18). The apostle John testified, “In Him was life, and the life was the light of men” (1:4). Every miracle Jesus performed was to help people answer the greatest question of all: who is He? According to Paul, Jesus is our Creator: “For by Him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible… And He is before all things, and in Him all things consist” (Col. 1:16, 17). He is our Creator, our Healer, and our Redeemer, the One who came to earth to show us a better way and to work the greatest miracle of all: renewing our sinful hearts.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`How does what we believe about God’s power impact our understanding of the gospel?`