---
title: inQuire
date: 22/11/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**The Gibeonites resort to deception:**

1. Why did the kings of Canaan suddenly turn against the Gibeonites? _Read Josh. 10:1–5._
2. Why did God save the Gibeonites even though they were Hivites (Josh. 9:3, 7), and among the seven nations to be utterly destroyed (Deut. 7:1, 2)? _Consider God’s promises and actions towards other nations in Jer. 18:7, 8 and Jon. 3:4–10._
3. Despite their dishonesty and trickery, how does the record honor the course of the Gibeonites? _Read Josh. 11:19, 20._
4. Centuries later, what place did the Gibeonites have inside God’s covenant community? The Gibeonites returned with the exiles in Neh. 7:25.

`Personal reflection: When someone switches their allegiance to God, what reactions have you seen from their family, friends, or coworkers? What opposition have you faced for taking a stand for God?`

**The Gibeonites defended and protected:**

1. How did God save the Gibeonites and Israel? _Read Josh. 10:6–14._
2. What does the sun standing still for almost a day say about God’s control over nature?

`Personal reflection: How can you learn to rely more on divine power?`

**Relying on God:**

1. Why did God require that the Israelites hamstring all the horses they captured and burn the chariots? _Compare Josh. 11:4–9 with Ps. 20:7._
2. How does hamstringing the horses and burning the chariots change the story? Can you think of similar stories where God needs people to downsize so they are more reliant on Him? _Consider the story of Gideon in Judg. 7:2–4._

`Personal reflection: What life experiences have taught you to rely on God? If appropriate, share with the group.`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- God looks for any opening to save people, even when they come to Him dishonestly.
- God has absolute control over nature and is not bound by the laws of nature.
- Sometimes we need less so we can depend on God more.