---
title:  Human Destiny
date:  07/04/2022
---

`Read Genesis 3:15–24. As a result of the Fall, what happened to Adam and Eve?`

While God’s judgment of the serpent is explicitly identified as a curse (Gen. 3:14), God’s judgment of the woman and of the man is not. The only time the word “curse” is used again is when it is applied to the “ground” (Gen. 3:17). That is, God had other plans for the man and the woman, as opposed to the serpent. They were offered a hope not offered to him.

Because the woman’s sin is due to her association with the serpent, the verse describing God’s judgment of the woman was related to the judgment of the serpent. Not only does Genesis 3:16 immediately follow Genesis 3:15, but the parallels between the two prophecies also clearly indicate that the prophecy concerning the woman in Genesis 3:16 has to be read in connection to the Messianic prophecy in Genesis 3:15. God’s judgment of the woman, including childbearing, should therefore be understood in the positive perspective of salvation (compare with 1 Tim. 2:14, 15).

Because the man’s sin is due to listening to the woman instead of listening to God, the ground from which man has been taken is cursed (Gen. 3:17). As a result, man will have to work hard (Gen. 3:17–19), and he will then “ ‘return’ ” to the ground where he comes from (Gen. 3:19), something that never should have happened and that was never part of God’s original plan.

It is significant that against this hopeless prospect of death Adam turns, then, to the woman, where he sees the hope of life through her giving birth (Gen. 3:20). That is, even amid the sentence of death, he sees the hope of life.

As any loving parent, God had wanted only good for them, not evil. But now that they knew evil, God was going to do all that He could to save them from it. Thus, even amid these judgments, all hope was not lost for our first parents, despite their open and blatant disobedience to God; even though they—living truly in paradise—had absolutely no reason to doubt God, to doubt God’s words, or to doubt His love for them.

`Though we tend to think of “knowledge” in and of itself as good, why is that not always the case? What are some things that we are better off not knowing?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Adam understood that his companion had transgressed the command of God, disregarded the only prohibition laid upon them as a test of their fidelity and love. There was a terrible struggle in his mind. He mourned that he had permitted Eve to wander from his side. But now the deed was done; he must be separated from her whose society had been his joy. How could he have it thus? Adam had enjoyed the companionship of God and of holy angels. He had looked upon the glory of the Creator. He understood the high destiny opened to the human race should they remain faithful to God. Yet all these blessings were lost sight of in the fear of losing that one gift which in his eyes outvalued every other. . . . He resolved to share her fate; if she must die, he would die with her.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 56.

When God made man, He made him ruler over the earth and all living creatures. So long as Adam remained loyal to Heaven, all nature was in subjection to him. But when he rebelled against the divine law, the inferior creatures were in rebellion against his rule. Thus the Lord, in His great mercy, would show men the sacredness of His law, and lead them, by their own experience, to see the danger of setting it aside, even in the slightest degree.<br/>
And the life of toil and care which was henceforth to be man’s lot was appointed in love. It was a discipline rendered needful by his sin, to place a check upon the indulgence of appetite and passion, to develop habits of self-control. It was a part of God’s great plan for man’s recovery from the ruin and degradation of sin.—Conflict and Courage, p. 18.

When Adam and Eve realized how exalted and sacred was the law of God, the transgression of which made so costly a sacrifice necessary to save them and their posterity from utter ruin, they pleaded to die themselves, or to let them and their posterity endure the penalty of their transgression, rather than that the beloved Son of God should make this great sacrifice. The anguish of Adam was increased. He saw that his sins were of so great magnitude as to involve fearful consequences. And must it be that heaven’s honored Commander, who had walked with him and talked with him while in his holy innocence, whom angels honored and worshiped, must be brought down from his exalted position to die because of his transgression? . . .<br/>
. . . The Father could not abolish or change one precept of His law to meet man in his fallen condition. But the Son of God, who had in unison with the Father created man, could make an atonement for man acceptable to God, by giving His life a sacrifice and bearing the wrath of His Father. Angels informed Adam that, as his transgression had brought death and wretchedness, life and immortality would be brought to light through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ.—The Story of Redemption, pp. 47, 48.