---
title:  Further Thought
date:  09/08/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Tradition,” pp. 395–398; “Barriers Broken Down,” pp. 399–403; “The True Sign,” pp. 404–409, in _The Desire of Ages_.

“Among the followers of our Lord today, as of old, how widespread is this subtle, deceptive sin! How often our service to Christ, our communion with one another, is marred by the secret desire to exalt self! How ready the thought of self-gratulation, and the longing for human approval! It is the love of self, the desire for an easier way than God has appointed that leads to the substitution of human theories and traditions for the divine precepts. To His own disciples the warning words of Christ are spoken, ‘Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees.’

“The religion of Christ is sincerity itself. Zeal for God’s glory is the motive implanted by the Holy Spirit; and only the effectual working of the Spirit can implant this motive. Only the power of God can banish self-seeking and hypocrisy. This change is the sign of His working. When the faith we accept destroys selfishness and pretense, when it leads us to seek God’s glory and not our own, we may know that it is of the right order. ‘Father, glorify Thy name’ (John 12:28), was the keynote of Christ’s life, and if we follow Him, this will be the keynote of our life. He commands us to ‘walk, even as He walked;’ and ‘hereby we do know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments.’ 1 John 2:6, 3.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, p. 409.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What Christian practices have you found that help to keep the heart clean?`

`Who are the “unclean” people in your community? What can you do to help draw them to the gospel?`

`Ponder, as a class, what you can do to foster sharing the gospel in simple ways with your neighbors.`

`Read Mark 8:1–10, the feeding of the 4,000. What difference does it make for the interpretation of this passage that the crowd was likely Gentile? Why shouldn’t it make any difference?`

`How can we diligently protect ourselves from the innate desire we all have, as fallen beings, to exalt ourselves?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Lift Him Up_, “God’s Words Created His Works,” p. 66;\
_The Desire of Ages_, “The True Sign,” pp. 404–409.