### Jesus and Liberty

A few months ago, I participated in a small interfaith panel that discussed religious liberty. At this event, I sat between a Buddhist teacher and a Roman Catholic priest—people whose beliefs are very different from my own. I was glad to have the opportunity to share a few Seventh-day Adventist perspectives on religious liberty with this diverse audience. My comments at this table touched on four topics:

1\. The church needs to follow Jesus’ example of winning with love and influence rather than fighting with weapons of force and power (John 18:36).

2\. There is a temptation for government agencies to lower the priority of religious liberties. For example, one of those agencies recently blocked a Christian couple from adopting their own granddaughter because they wouldn’t agree to support gender transitioning therapies if she requested them before adulthood. This couple’s deep conviction regarding the protection of their granddaughter’s sexual health was enough for the government agency to deny them custody (see www.youtube.com/watch?v=S0yhbikRRuI).

3\. Adventism strongly adheres to the doctrine of separation of church and state, following the tradition of Baptist pastor Roger Williams, who was an early pioneer of religious liberty in America. Williams advocated that the government and its laws must not interfere in our relationship with God as defined in the first four commandments (Ex. 20:3–11; Matt. 22:37, 38). Williams believed the government’s role should be limited to the last six commandments, which deal with civility in neighbor-to-neighbor relationships (Ex. 20:12–17; Matt. 22:39). Adventists have a strong history of advocating for separation of church and state.

4\. Christians around the world are likely feeling hurt and angry after suffering the shutdowns and subsequent isolation caused by COVID-19. In places where churches were closed while casinos and taverns were remained open, one can see why Christians may feel pressed or even attacked by secularism. However, we must also guard against Christians who overreact to an imbalance in the political equilibrium. This can eventually result in religious tyranny, which is just as bad or even worse than secular tyranny. In the past two thousand years, more lives have been lost to religious zeal than secular despotism.

This panel was the first of its kind in our local area. People in many places are becoming more concerned about the increasing threats to religious liberty, hence the growing number of similar events across various organizations and churches. Young adults today can expect this to be a trending topic of interest in the coming years.

The Adventist understanding of biblical prophecy leads us to believe that religious liberty will become a central matter of popular debate and public interest. If religious liberty is indeed a looming crisis, it would behoove all believers to equip themselves with biblical perspectives on this important topic. Ellen White urges, “We should endeavor to disarm prejudice by placing ourselves in a proper light before the people. We should bring before them the real question at issue, thus interposing the most effectual protest against measures to restrict liberty of conscience. We should search the Scriptures and be able to give the reason for our faith” (_Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5_ [1885], 452).

Religious liberty should never be relegated to mere philosophy, or legal jargon; it’s a biblical issue that impacts people in every culture and in every part of the world. To neglect this topic is to neglect the Adventist mission and message. “The banner of truth and religious liberty held aloft by the founders of the gospel church and by God's witnesses during the centuries that have passed since then, has, in this last conflict, been committed to our hands. The responsibility for this great gift rests with those whom God has blessed with a knowledge of His word” (Ellen White, _Acts of the Apostles_ [1911], 68, 69).

This quarter’s study explores biblical principles that can equip every person to better understand Jesus and liberty. The first several chapters close examine Jesus’ life, for Jesus is central to our understanding of religious liberty. One chapter examines how Paul’s life demonstrated Jesus’ principles, and the remaining few chapters cover the implications of biblical prophecy and how extending freedom helps prepare us for the Second Coming.

Each chapter begins with a story from history, moving from the early church in Rome to the Protestant Reformation in Europe to the origins of Adventism in North America. These stories illustrate the challenges that people around the world face still today. May this study draw you closer to Christ and better prepare you to be His representative wherever God has placed you!

_Joe Reeves, Editor_