---
title:  Further Thought
date:   16/06/2017
---

From our perspective, it can seem as if the Second Coming is greatly delayed. Jesus obviously knew that we would feel this way, and in some parables He warned against what could happen if we weren’t careful and watchful during this time. Take the parable of the two servants in Matthew 24:45–51 (mentioned in Wednesday’s study). They both expected their master to return. But they reached two different conclusions about his return. One decided he must be ready for the master to return at any time. The other said that the master was delayed, and therefore he took it as an opportunity to act in an evil manner. “Because we know not the exact time of His coming, we are commanded to watch. ‘Blessed are those servants, whom the Lord when He cometh shall find watching.’ Luke 12:37. Those who watch for the Lord’s coming are not waiting in idle expectancy. The expectation of Christ’s coming is to make men fear the Lord, and fear His judgments upon transgression. It is to awaken them to the great sin of rejecting His offers of mercy. Those who are watching for the Lord are purifying their souls by obedience to the truth.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 634.

#### Discussion Questions:

`In class, discuss your answer to Monday’s question about the Second Coming. What are some ways in which we deal with the fact that Christ has not yet returned? What can we learn from one another’s answers?`

`What teachings, practices, and beliefs do we hold as Seventh-day Adventists that do not come from culture or reason or tradition but are solely from the Word of God?`

`As we saw during the week, Peter linked sinful tendencies and passions with false teaching. The lesson had this statement: “It’s not just a coincidence that sinful passions can lead to false teachings, is it?” Why is it not just a coincidence? What could be the various links between the two?`

`Albert Einstein presented to the world the amazing idea that time is not absolute. That is, depending on where you are and how fast you are moving, time in your frame of reference will be different from someone else’s in another frame of reference. The point is, time is something very mysterious, and it acts in ways that we don’t fully understand. How might this idea help us to realize that time for God is not the same as it is for us, especially in the context of Christ’s having not yet returned?`