---
title:  The 10% Agreement
date:   14/01/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Hebrews 7:1– 9; Malachi 3:10; Leviticus 27:30; 1 Kings 17:9–16; 1 Corinthians 4:1, 2.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “The Lord All-Powerful says, ‘Try this test. Bring one-tenth [10%] of your things to me. Put them in the treasury [storerooms in the temple]. Bring food to my house.Test [Give a test to] me! If you do these things, I will surely [for sure] bless you. . . . You will have more than enough of everything’ ” (Malachi 3:10, ERV).

In Genesis 14, Abram saves several people from the Army of Four Kings. One of the people Abram saves is Lot. Lot is the son of Abram’s brother. The four kings took these people away from the city of Sodom and four other cities. But Abram frees them.The king of Sodom is so thankful for Abram’s help. So, the king invites Abram to take all the riches that the four kings stole from Sodom. But Abram refuses. Earlier, Abram gives to Melchizedek 10% of everything he owned.

Right after Abram gives his tithe, the Lord says, “ ‘Abram, don’t be afraid. I will defend you. And I will give you a great [big] reward’ ” (Genesis 15:1, ICB). In other words, the Lord tells Abram that He always will protect him. Many years later, Moses commands Israel before they enter the Promised Land, “ ‘Be sure to give a tenth part [10%] to the Lord of all you plant that comes from your field every year. . . . Then you may learn to fear [respect] the Lord your God always’ ” (Deuteronomy 14:22, 23, NLV).

What do these Bible truths mean for us today?