---
title:  Tithe Means 10%
date:   15/01/2023
---

The dictionary says that tithe is “a tenth part of something” or “ten percent [10%].” This meaning comes from the Bible. We know that all that we have belongs to God. So, we give back to Him 10% of everything we get. The tithe laws that God gave to Israel at Mount Sinai show that the tithe is holy and belongs to God (read Leviticus 27:30, 32). God asks only for His 10%. We also thank God by giving Him offerings. These offerings are separate from the tithe. The Bible doesn’t say anywhere that we can give God less than 10%.

`Read in Genesis 14:18–20 and Hebrews 7:1–9 about Abram’s meeting with Melchizedek. What does Abram do when he meets Melchizedek?`

The first time that the Bible talks about tithe is in Genesis 14. This chapter tells us the story of Melchizedek’s meeting with Abram. The last time the Bible talks about tithe is in Hebrews 7. This chapter also talks about the same meeting between Melchizedek and Abram. In this chapter, Paul uses the words “to pay a tenth [1/10th or 10%]” and “to pay tithe” to mean the same thing (read Hebrews 7:1–9). Do you see in the story in Hebrews that both Melchizedek and Jesus are not from the family group of Levi? This idea shows us that the Bible rule to pay tithe did not start with the Levites. So, paying tithe happened before Moses wrote down the laws about tithe.

`Read about Jacob in Genesis 28:13, 14, 20–22. What does God promise to do for Jacob? What is Jacob’s answer to God’s promise?`

When Jacob leaves home, he runs away from Esau, his angry brother. Then Jacob has a dream. In the dream, Jacob sees stairs that start on the earth and end in heaven. God stands at the top of the stairs. God promises to be with Jacob and to bring him back home someday. That night, Jacob is changed forever. He promises the Lord, “ ‘The Lord will be my God.. . .And I will giveYou a tenth part [10%] of allYou give to me’ ” (Genesis 28:21, 22, NLV).