---
title:  Where Are God’s Storerooms?
date:   16/01/2023
---

`Read Malachi 3:10. What can we learn from this verse about where to pay our tithe? As we learned, tithe is the special offering that belongs to God. Tithe is 10% of all the money we get.`

From this verse, we see that God’s people already knew what God meant by “storerooms” (Malachi 3:10, NIrV). God tells His people to bring the tithe to His storerooms “ ‘so that there may be food in My house’ ” (Malachi 3:10, NLV). At first, God’s people understood that God’s house was the sanctuary. The sanctuary was the holy tent for the ark that God told Moses to build for Him during the time when God’s people lived in the desert. When Israel moved to the Promised Land, God’s holy tent stayed in Shiloh for a while. Later, Solomon built a temple for God in Jerusalem. The ark was moved to the temple.

`Read Deuteronomy 12:5–14. These verses show us that God doesn’t give His children permission to decide where they should send their tithe.What can we learn from these verses for ourselves today?`

As members of God’s family, we want to understand what God wants us to do with our tithe. In Deuteronomy 12:5–14, we see that God’s people traveled to Jerusalem for special holidays three times each year. During these holidays, God’s people brought their tithes and offerings to God. The Levites took the tithe and gave it to other Levites all over the land of Israel (read 2 Chronicles 31:11–21; Nehemiah 12:44–47; Nehemiah 13:8–14). In the same way, God chose the local conferences, missions, and unions to be the storerooms for the Seventh-day Adventist church. The conferences, missions, and unions are smaller parts of the worldwide church. Most church workers in each area are paid from these storehouses.

Church members bring their tithe to their local church as part of their worship experience. (Some members, of course, give their tithe and offerings online.) The church’s money manager sends the tithe to the conference, which is God’s storeroom. God made this plan for our church. This plan helps our church to do its worldwide work.

`What if we sent our tithe anywhere we wanted? What would happen to our church? Why is that plan a bad idea?`