---
title:  God’s Plan For The 10% We Owe Him
date:   17/01/2023
---

`Read in Leviticus 27:30 and Numbers 18:21, 24 about God’s plan for our tithe. As we saw already, tithe is 10% of all the money we get from work or gifts. The tithe belongs to God.`

Psalm 24:1 helps us remember that God owns everything. For sure, God doesn’t need our money. But because the tithe belongs to God, He tells us what to do with it. God wants us to use His tithe to support His work on this earth. So, we must take care of the needs of God’s workers and preachers with God’s tithe.

The family group of Levi were the teachers and temple helpers in the Old Testament. God didn’t give the Levites the large amounts of land that He gave to the other Israelites. God gave the Levites 40 cities. God also gave the Levites enough land around these cities for their own personal gardens. The Israelites supported the Levites with their tithes. The Levites paid tithes, too, from the money they got.

`Read Acts 20:35. What important rule does this verse teach us? How can this rule help us to understand why we should give our offerings to help other people in need?`

Paying tithe helps our friendship with God grow strong. When we pay tithe, we learn to trust God more. We need faith to take 10% of all the money we get and give it back to God. (Really, our money belongs to God anyway.) Our faith only will grow when we use our faith.

Think about how much our faith will help us in the end times when we can’t buy or sell (Revelation 13; Revelation 14; study lesson 11). Everyone will be against God’s loyal people then. So, we need to have trust in God and His love now. When we pay tithe, we build strong trust in God.

A second big reason for our paying tithe is so that we can enjoy God’s blessings in this life now. As part of our tithe agreement, God promises us blessings so large that we won’t have room enough to store them all! With all these extra blessings, we can help people and support God’s work.

`The Bible teaches us that we get more of a blessing when we give than when we get. How have you learned this Bible truth for yourself?`