---
title:  'Paying 10% to God: Before or After Taxes?'
date:   18/01/2023
---

We know we should pay God tithe. As we saw, tithe is 10% of all the money we get from work and gifts. But the question many people ask is, “Should we pay tithe before or after the government removes taxes from our paychecks?” In many countries, the government takes out taxes from the worker’s pay. The government uses the tax money to pay for roads, bridges, and to help people who lost their jobs. If we own our own business, we can pay tithe on the money we make before we pay any taxes.

Studies show that most Seventh-day Adventists pay tithe on the money they earn before the government takes out taxes. (For more information, please read the booklet Tithing Principles and Guidelines [Silver Spring, MD: General Conference of SDA], page 13 [Rule 13], and page 22 [Rule 3B; pages 22–24].)

`Read 1 Kings 17:9–16. How was life for the widow before Elijah came to her? What did Elijah ask the widow to do first before she took care of herself and her son? What important rule does this story teach us about paying tithe?`

God told the widow of Zarephath that a man of God was coming to see her (1 Kings 17:9). When Elijah arrived, the widow told him about her hard times. Elijah asked the woman for a drink of water. Then he “said to the woman, ‘Don’t worry. Go home and cook your food as you said. But first make a small piece of bread from the flour that you have and bring it to me. Then cook some for yourself and your son. The Lord, the God of Israel, says, “That jar of flour will never be empty and the jug will always have oil in it.” This [gift] will continue until the day the Lord sends rain to the land’ ” (1 Kings 17:13, 14, ERV).

Was Elijah selfish to ask the woman for some food when she had so little? Or was God testing her faith? The answer should be easy for us to guess. God was testing the widow.

We have been told, “God allows each one of us to decide what is our income. Then God permits us to decide to give Him as much as we wish.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 4, page 469, adapted.

`What blessings do you get from paying tithe? How does paying tithe make your faith grow stronger?`