---
title:  An Honest Tithe, or 10%
date:   19/01/2023
---

We are God’s children and the managers of His blessings. God gives us important work to do for Him. So, what type of workers does God ask us to be? For the answer, read 1 Corinthians 4:1, 2.

What does it mean to be loyal to God or honest with our tithe? As we learned, tithe is the money we owe God from everything He gives us. This week, we have learned several things about paying tithe:

1. Tithe is 10% of all the money we earn or get.
2. We send tithe to the storeroom. The storeroom is a word picture for the place where the tithe is kept. God’s workers and His preachers are paid from the tithe.
3. When we pay tithe, we put God first. We give Him back our tithe before we spend anything we earn or get.
4. Tithe is used to support God’s work on this earth.

As church members, we are responsible for numbers 1–3.

Our church leaders and money managers take care of number 4. They must make sure that the tithe is used in the right way.

Tithe belongs to God. So, it is our duty to give God our tithe and offerings. If we don’t give God the full 10% that we owe Him, we rob Him. If we don’t bring the tithe and our offerings to the “storeroom,” then we also steal from God.

`Read the picture story about God’s managers in Matthew 25:19–21. As these verses show us, when will God ask us to explain what we did with His money? What does God say to His wise managers?`

“Malachi 3:10 is God’s command: ‘ “Bring to the storehouse [storerooms] a tenth [10%] of what you gain [get]” ’ [ICB]. God doesn’t ask us to obey this command because we feel thankful to Him or unselfish. God asks us to be honest. The tithe belongs to the Lord. He asks us to give back the tithe to Him because it belongs to Him.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 138, adapted.

`Some Christians complain that they don’t like how the church uses their tithe money. So, they won’t pay tithe. Or they send it somewhere else. Why is this thinking wrong? Did God say, “Pay tithe only if you feel good about it”?`