---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   20/01/2023
---

Read Ellen G.White’s writings about tithe in Testimonies for the Church, volume 9, pages 245–252. As we saw already, tithe is 10% of all the money we get. Also, study section 3 of Counsels on Stewardship, pages 65–107.

“What if God’s people give back to God all the tithe that they owe Him? God will give His people many blessings. He will give them back ten times more to do His work than they give to Him. Then communication between God and humans will stay open.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 4, page 474, adapted. Wow! This quote is surprising. If we all are honest in paying our tithe, God will bless us by giving us ten times more blessings than we gave to Him. So, that means if we give 10.00 USD to God, God will bless our 10 USD so that it will be worth 100.00 USD. That is the same as God making our tithe worth 1,000% more!

“In Malachi 3, we read about the agreement God made with humans. The Lord explains His part. He will give big gifts to His people who will give back to Him their tithes and offerings.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, December 17, 1901, adapted.

“Everyone should remember that God must come first in our lives. God gives many things to us. He made an agreement with us. This agreement says we must give back to God one-tenth [1/10th or 10%] of our things. The Lord trusts us to be managers of the things He gives us. But God says, ‘The 10% is Mine.’ We must give back to God 10% of everything He gives us. Who made this plan? Jesus Christ Himself.” —Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 6, page 384, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`Paying tithe started long before the Israelites were a people. How does this Bible truth help us understand why we must pay tithe to God?`

`What if people decided to stop sending their tithe to the local church? What would happen to our church? Would we have a church? What’s wrong with saying, “Well, my tithe is so small compared to everyone else’s tithe. So, who cares where I send it?” What if everyone thought this way?`

`What has been your experience paying tithe? Share your experience with the class.`