---
title:  When Moses Woke Up From The Dead
date:  18/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Numbers 20:1–13; Deuteronomy 34:1-12; Jude 1:9; 1 Corinthians 15:13–22.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “At one time Michael the chief angel had a quarrel with the devil about who should have the body of Moses. But he did not dare to judge the devil and say wrong things about him. He said, `May the Lord tell you to stop!’ ” (Jude 1:9, WE).

MOSES IS THE MOST IMPORTANT HUMAN in the book of Deuteronomy. Yes, Deuteronomy is really about the Lord, not Moses. At the same time, God showed His love for Israel by the messages He gave Moses to give to His people.

Now we come to the end of our study of Deuteronomy. We also come to the end of the life of Moses, too. That is, we come to the end of his life here on this earth.

“Moses knew that he must die alone. The Lord did not allow any human friend to take care of Moses at this time. The death of Moses was an awful mystery. Moses did not want to die. He did not want to be separated from his people. He loved them and cared for them. His life and happiness were joined with their lives for so long. During that time, Moses learned to trust God. Now, Moses did not question the Lord. Moses trusted in the love and mercy of God. Moses trusted God to take care of him and Israel.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 470, 471, adapted.

For sure, the life of Moses and his work for God shows us who God is. As we shall see, the death of Moses and His waking up from the dead show us Bible truth about God, too.