---
title:  'The Sin Of Moses: Part 1'
date:  19/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Again and again, the Lord takes care of Israel in the desert. God gives His people everything they need during this time. The desert is very dry and hot. So, the gift of water is a miracle. Without water, the children of Israel will die very fast in the desert. Paul writes about the experience of the children of Israel in the desert: “They all drank the same spiritual drink. They drank from that spiritual rock that was with them, and that rock was Christ” (1 Corinthians 10:4, ERV). Ellen G. White adds, “When the children of Israel wanted the water, the water poured out of the rock and flowed next to their camp.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 411, adapted.

`Read Numbers 20:1–13. What happens in these verses? Why does the Lord punish Moses?`

We can see why Moses gets upset, right? Look at everything the Lord does for His people. He does miracles. He gives them signs that show His power. He frees them in a mighty way from Egypt. And then, what? When the people do not have enough water, they turn against Moses and Aaron. The people make a secret plan to remove Moses and Aaron as their leaders. Do the people make this plan because the Lord cannot give them water now as He did in the past? Of course not! The Lord can give them water now just as He gave them water in the past.

Look at what Moses says right before he hits the rock twice: “ ‘Moses and Aaron told the people to meet together in front of the rock. Then Moses said, “You people are always complaining. Now listen to me. I will cause water to flow from this rock’ ” (Numbers 20:10, ERV).

Moses is angry because the people complain. The problem is not really that Moses is upset. The problem is that he loses his temper when he says, “ ‘I will cause water to flow from this rock’ ” (Numbers 20:10, ERV). How can Moses, or any other human, cause water to come from a rock? In his anger, Moses forgets that only God has the power to do this miracle.

`How often do we say or do things when we get mad that we are sorry about later? How can we learn to stop, pray, and ask God to help us say and do the right thing before we say and do the wrong thing first?`