---
title:  'The Sin Of Moses: Part 2'
date:  20/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read again Numbers 20:12, 13. What reason does the Lord give Moses about why he may not enter the Promised Land? Read also Deuteronomy 31:2 and Deuteronomy 34:4 for the answer.`

These verses show that the sin of Moses is very bad. When Moses hits the rock twice, he shows that he wants to be the same as God. This sin is bad enough. But Moses also does something much worse. He shows no faith in God. Moses is the leader of Israel. So, his sin is even more awful when we think about all the special favor God showed him. God talked with Moses from the burning bush (Exodus. 3:2–16), remember? For sure, Moses has an experience with God that few people have. So, Moses has no excuse for his sin. The Lord says that Moses “ ‘did not trust me enough to honor me’ ” (Numbers 20:12, ERV) in front of the people. Moses shows no faith in the words of the Lord. So, Moses fails to “ ‘show the people that I am holy’ ” (Numbers 20:12, ERV). What if Moses stayed calm and did the right thing while the people complained against God? What if Moses showed his own faith and trust in God at that time? Then the story would be very different, right?

Do you also see that Moses disobeys exactly what the Lord asks him to do?

`Read Numbers 20:8-11. What does the Lord tell Moses to do? What does Moses do instead of that?`

We read that “Moses took the walking stick from the tent. He did just as the Lord had commanded him” (Numbers 20:9, NIrV). Everything is fine, so far. But by verse 10, Moses hits the rock. He does not talk to the rock. The Lord commanded Moses to talk to the rock to make water come out. Worse, Moses does not hit the rock only one time. Moses hits the rock twice. Yes, hitting a rock and causing water to flow out is a miracle. But what if Moses talked to the rock instead of hitting it? That is a bigger miracle!

So, God punishes Moses for his sin in an awful way. Moses is not allowed to enter the Promised Land.

`What lesson do you think the children of Israel should have learned from the awful punishment God gave to Moses?`