---
title:  Moses Dies 
date:  21/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Poor Moses! He came so far. He went through so much. Now he will be left out of the promise God made to Abram long ago: “ ‘I will give this land to your family who comes after you’ ” (Genesis 12:7, NIrV).

`Read Deuteronomy 34:1-12. What happens to Moses? What does the Lord say about him? How do the words of the Lord show us that Moses was a very special person?`

“Alone, Moses thought about everything that happened in his past since he left Egypt and chose to be a part of the people of God. Moses thought about his long years in the desert taking care of the sheep of Jethro. Moses remembered the Angel in the burning bush. The Angel commanded Moses to free Israel from slavery. Moses also remembered the many miracles God did for His chosen people. Moses remembered that God was very patient whenever His people turned against Him. God showed them so much mercy during their time in the desert. Moses prayed for the people. He worked hard for them. But only two of the men who left Egypt were alive. They were the only ones from the group that left Egypt who will enter the Promised Land. Moses thinks about his past and all he did. He feels that nothing he did really changed things for the better.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 471, 472, adapted.

Deuteronomy 34:4, NIrV, says something very interesting: “Then the Lord spoke to Moses. He said, ‘This is the land I promised to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. I told them, “I will give this land to your children and their children.” Moses, I have let you see it with your own eyes. But you will not go across the Jordan River to enter it.’ ” The Lord says to Moses almost the same thing He said to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob about giving them this land.

`Do you also see that the Lord lets Moses see the whole land? There is no way Moses with normal eyes can see all this land. Ellen G. White helps us understand that God causes Moses to see what normal human eyes cannot see. Yes, God helps Moses see all the land from Moab to Dan to Naphtali, and more. God also shows Moses the future. Moses sees how the land will look after the Israelites live there. The Lord wants Moses to see that He will keep His promise to Israel. He will bring them into the land. As we will see, God has planned something better for his servant Moses.`