---
title:  Moses Wakes Up From The Dead 
date:  22/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in Moab. It happened just as the Lord had said. The Lord buried the body of Moses in Moab. His grave is in the valley across from Beth Peor. But to this day no one knows where his grave is” (Deuteronomy 34:5, 6, NIrV). For sure, the death of Moses helps us remember the promise from Revelation: “Then I heard a voice from heaven. ‘Write this,’ it said. ‘Blessed are the dead who die as believers in the Lord from now on.’ ‘Yes,’ says the Holy Spirit. ‘They will rest from their labor. What they have done will not be forgotten” (Revelation 14:13, NIrV). For sure, the good work Moses did will live on after his death. But as we shall see, the death of Moses is not the final chapter in his story.

`Read Jude 1:9. What is happening in this verse? How does this verse help explain why Moses shows up later in the New Testament?`

Michael is another name for Jesus. Michael argues with the devil about the body of Moses. What is that all about? We know that Moses was a sinner. His last sin that we know about was taking for himself the glory that belongs only to God. This sin is the same one that got Lucifer thrown out of heaven in the first place. Lucifer bragged, “ ‘I will go up to the altar above the tops of the clouds. I will be like [the same as] God Most High’ ” (Isaiah 14:14, ERV). So, why do Jesus and Satan fight about the body of Moses? No doubt, Jesus wants to wake Moses up from the dead.

But how can Jesus do that for a sinner? Moses broke His law. The answer, of course, is the Cross. The Lord argues that the body of Moses belongs to Him because of what will happen on the cross. Jesus looks to His own death in the future on the cross. By His own death, Jesus will win the war for humans against death and sin. “Because of his sin, Moses came under the control of Satan. His own behavior caused him to die. He should stay in the grave forever. But Jesus woke Moses up from the dead and gave him everlasting life. Moses awoke covered in glory. Then he went up to heaven with Jesus to the City of God.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 479, adapted.

`How does this story about Moses show us that the plan of God to save sinners is very powerful?`