---
title:  When We Wake Up From The Dead 
date:  23/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When we read in Jude about what happens to Moses, the punishment God gave him is really not so bad, right? Yes, Moses does not get to go to the Promised Land on earth. But he goes to the one in heaven (Hebrews 12:22). Even now, he is alive in his new home. A much better home, for sure!

Moses is the first example we know about in the Bible of someone who wakes up from the dead. God took Enoch to heaven (Genesis 5:24) and Elijah, too (2 Kings 2:11). But these men did not die first. Moses is the first person we know about who died and woke up from the dead.

How long was Moses in the grave before that happened? We do not know. Did he stay in the grave for 3 hours or 300 years? Is that information important? Not really. Moses closed his eyes and died. When he opened them again, He saw Jesus. The same thing will happen for us. We will die. The next thing we will see when we open our eyes is Jesus as our King or Jesus as our Judge (read Revelation 20:7–15).

Read 1 Corinthians 15:13–22. What wonderful promise do you read in these verses? Why must we know that the dead sleep until Jesus wakes them up from the dead? Why will we not understand these verses without this Bible truth?

If we do not have the hope of waking up from the dead, we have no hope at all. When Jesus woke up from the dead, His life was a promise that we, too, will wake up from the dead. Jesus “made people clean from their sins” (Hebrews 1:3, ERV) when He died on the cross as our Lamb. Then He woke up from the dead. That is why we have hope for the future. Moses is the first example of a sinner who wakes up from the dead. Moses woke up because of what Jesus will do in the future. Jesus did that. Because of what He did, we too, will wake up from the dead.

This story about Moses is an example of how God saves us by our faith in His mercy. Moses lived by faith, even if he made a mistake at the end of his life. All through Deuteronomy, Moses encourages the people to choose this same life of faith. We, too, are on the borders of the Promised Land. Should we not also choose a life of faith?

`God invites us to live by faith in Him. What can we do to make sure we do not make the same mistakes we are warned about in Deuteronomy?`