---
title:  Further Thought
date:  24/12/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“When Moses and Aaron cry, ‘Must we get you water out of this rock?’ they try to behave the same as God. They show the people that the power to work this miracle comes from them. But they are men. They have the human weakness and strong feelings of sinners. Moses and Aaron are tired and worn out because the people never stop complaining and turning against God. So, Moses forgets about God in that moment. He fails to remember that God is his Mighty Helper. Moses makes a mistake that goes on the record of Bible history for everyone to read about. Moses shows human weakness because he does not trust in the strength of God. In that moment, Moses does not choose to stay clean in his heart. He does not stay firm or unselfish to the end of his lifework for God. Moses should have given God glory and shown Him respect. But he is beaten down by sin. He does not honor God in front of the people.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 418, adapted.

“Moses was there with Elijah on the very high hill. There, Jesus was changed until He shone with bright glory. God the Father sent Moses and Elijah to Jesus the Son. Moses and Elijah brought Jesus light and glory from the Father. Moses prayed about this time hundreds of years before. Now everything he prayed about was finally happening. Moses stood on the very land that God gave to His people. Moses talked with Jesus there and encouraged Him. Jesus was the One that all the Bible promises were about. This picture of Moses is the final one we see of his life. He is a man who is honored very much in heaven.”— Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 479, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How does the story about the death of Moses show us the teaching about the resurrection, or waking up from the dead, in the New Testament?`

`How is the story about the life of Moses an example of what it means to live by faith? How does his life show us that we are saved by our faith in the mercy of God and not by our own good behavior?`

`In class, talk about the promise of the resurrection. Why is this teaching so important to everything we believe? If we can trust God to wake us from the dead, should we not trust Him for everything else? If God can wake us from the dead, He can do anything, right?!`