---
title:  How Did We Get Here? 
date:  28/03/2021
---

**In the beginning, God created [made] the sky and the earth” (Genesis 1:1, ERV).**

We all live on this earth. Sure, no one chose to be here. But why are we here? How did we get here? Where are we all going to end up?

These questions are the most basic questions about life that people ask. The questions, Who are we? and How did we get here? are important. Our answers help us decide how we will behave while we live on this earth.

`Read these verses: Genesis 1:1; Psalm 100:3; Isaiah 40:28; Acts 17:26; Ephesians 3:9; Hebrews 1:2, 10. How does each verse answer some of the questions we asked in the paragraph above? What do all these verses show us about God?`

Do you see that Genesis 1:1 and all the other verses do not try to explain or prove that God made the earth? The verses simply say that God made the earth and the sky. The Bible expects us to accept this Bible truth. Faith is the only way that we can accept what the Bible says. We must accept the Bible story about how life started for one simple reason: nobody human was there to see God make the sky and the earth. That was not possible. So, we must accept in faith what the Bible says about how life on earth started. People who do not believe in God also must have faith for the same reason that we do. No human was there to see how life started.

`God asks us to believe that He made us. But He does not ask us to believe without giving us good reasons to believe. That is why faith is so important. Write down reasons why it makes sense for us to believe that we are here because God has a plan for our lives. Why does that idea make more sense than our believing that we are here because of chance or by accident?`