---
title:  A Copy Of God 
date:  29/03/2021
---

**The Bible says that God made the first man and woman “in his own image [a copy of God]” (Genesis 1:27, ERV). Think some more about this idea. Then answer the questions**:

`1. What does this verse mean? How are we the same as a copy of God?`

`2. Read Genesis 1. Does the Lord make anything else “in his own image [a copy of Himself]” (Genesis 1:27, ERV)? Or, are humans the only ones who are copies of God? If yes, then how does that make us special? Why are we more special than anything else that God made? What does this teach us?`

`3. Look at Genesis 1 again. What else in this story shows us that humans are the most special thing that God makes?`

We must use human language to talk about God. But when we do, let us remember that God is a spiritual Person (John 4:24). He is holy too. Much of God is a mystery to us. All we can say now is that our bodies, minds, and spirits show in some way who God is. Our minds make it possible for us to have a close and loving friendship with God. The rest of the things that God made cannot have this friendship.

Do you see, too, in Genesis how God makes woman? Both men and women are copies of God. Do you also see that God makes the man and the woman equal? God Himself makes both Adam and Eve from things that come from the earth. This shows that God makes them both equal from the start. God puts the man and the woman together in a special friendship with Him. Both Adam and Eve have the same chance to become the same as God in their hearts. We do too. That is how we give God glory.

“God Himself gives Adam a companion who is the same as he is. God also makes Eve to help Adam. Eve can love Adam and care for him. Eve is made from a rib that God takes from the side of Adam. This shows us that she must not control Adam. But Adam must not control Eve. God does not view her as lower than her husband. God made her to stand by the side of her husband. Eve is the equal of Adam. His job is to love and protect Eve.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 46, adapted.