---
title:  God And Humans Together 
date:  30/03/2021
---

Let us look at the first words in the Bible that God says to humans. What does God say? First, God talks about humans and babies. Humans can make more humans. God made them that way. God also talks about the earth that He made. Then God tells humans to fill it, control it, and to be good managers of everything He made. God also talks about the plants that humans can eat. What do all these words show us? God cares about the needs of the man and the woman. God also puts them in charge of everything He made.

`What do Genesis 1:28, 29 show us that God thinks about all the beautiful things He made? Do the verses show us that these things are somehow bad? Are we wrong to enjoy them? What do these verses teach us about how we should feel about all the beautiful things that God made?`

Genesis 1:28, 29 show that friendship between God and humans starts with God. God leads the way. God talks to the man and the woman. He gives them commands. He tells them what to do. God gives the man and woman work. God makes the first humans His managers. They are responsible for everything that God made on the earth.

`Genesis 1:28 says that God blesses Adam and Eve. What does that mean? What does this show us about the friendship that Adam and Eve have with God?`

Do you see that God talks to Adam and Eve as if they are very smart? Why should God bother doing this at all if He does not want humans to be close to Him? This shows Adam and Eve that God wants to be friends with them. Adam and Eve must depend upon God for His blessings and care. They are His children. He gives them everything they need. They do not do anything to earn the gifts that God gives them. God simply gives these gifts to them because He loves them.

`The Bible shows us that God wants to be close to humans before sin happened. We also can see that God wants us to be very close to humans after sin came. What did you learn today that helps you understand how much God wants to be your Friend right now too?`