---
title:  At The Tree 
date:  31/03/2021
---

In Genesis 2:16, 17, we read about a test that God gives to Adam and Eve. The test God gives Adam and Eve will show how much they love God. The test also shows that God made Adam and Eve free. God gives the couple the freedom to choose between right and wrong. This power to choose is named free will. What if God did not make Adam and Eve free to disobey Him? Then they are not really free. And God does not need to bother warning the couple not to disobey Him.

“Everything that happens before Genesis 2:16, 17 leads to this important test. The future of the human family depends on what Adam and Eve choose to do. God does not make the test hard. He makes the test about only one thing. This simple test shows the mercy of God. Then God makes the test really easy. How? God gives Adam and Eve permission to eat from all the other trees in the garden.”—H. C. Leopold, Exposition of Genesis (Columbus, OH: Wartburg Press, 1942), volume 1, page 127, adapted.

What does the command of God to Adam and Eve show them? The command shows that God is saying, “I am the One who made you. You are a copy of Me. I make your life possible. I am the reason you live, breathe, and move your body. I gave you everything you need to live a good and happy life. I gave you food, a home, and friendship. I made you the king and queen of this earth under Me. If you love Me, you will accept my offer of a special friendship with Me. Then I will be your God. You will be My children. You can show Me how much you love Me and trust Me. How? By obeying this one easy command I give you: Do not eat from the forbidden tree.”

In the end, our friendship with God can continue and be a success only if we choose to accept His plan for us. When we turn away from His plan, we show that we want to be free from Him. We show that we do not need Him. That choice will bring us the knowledge of evil. Evil will separate us from God and end in suffering and death.

`The test God gave Adam and Eve was about trust. Will Adam and Eve be loyal to God, who gave them everything? Or will they go their own way? Will they have enough faith to take God at His word and do what He says? Do we face these same tests today? If yes, what tests are they?`