---
title:  The Broken Friendship With God 
date:  01/04/2021
---

`For the most part, we believe the people we know. We normally do not trust people we do not know. So, Eve should not trust Satan. Anything Satan does to attack God will turn Eve against Satan. So, what does Satan do to trick Eve into trusting him? (Read Genesis 3:1–6 for the answer.)`

“Eve sinned. Her sin is awful. Her wrong choice will no doubt bring suffering to the whole human family in the future. But her choice does not mean that the whole human family must be punished for her sin. The choice of Adam is different. Adam fully understands the command of God not to eat the forbidden fruit. Adam chooses to disobey God and eat the fruit anyway. His choice, and not the choice of Eve, makes sin and death a part of the life for every human on earth. Why? The answer is simple. Eve believes the lies of Satan. Adam does not.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 1, page 231, adapted.

What happens after Adam chooses to disobey God? The friendship breaks between God and all humans. Before sin, Adam and Eve talk with God face to face. Now they run away from Him and hide in fear (Genesis 3:8–10). Sin separates humans from God. Fear replaces love for God. Sin now is part of every human life. All the ugly things that sin causes are part of human lives too. If God does not do something, the human family will be lost forever.

`What words of hope and promise does God say to His children after they sin? (Read Genesis 3:15.)`

God gives Adam and Eve a surprising message about the future. He says that He will put hate between the snake and the woman and between her children and the children of the snake. This hate will continue until One comes who is a future Child of the woman. This future Child is Jesus. He will hit the snake hard on the head. The snake is a word picture for Satan. The blow from the Child will be strong enough to kill the snake. But Satan, the snake, cannot kill Jesus. Satan will only hurt His heel a little.

God gives Adam and Eve this promise to give them hope. The promise of Jesus and His win over Satan and sin changes the lives of Adam and Eve forever. The hope this promise gives them removes the fear from their hearts put there by sin.