---
title:  Further Thought
date:  02/04/2021
---

The Bible is filled with invitations from God to sinners to come back to Him. Compare Psalm 95:7, 8; Isaiah 55:1, 2, 6, 7; Luke 15:3–7; and Luke 19:10. What other invitations from God to sinners can you find in the Bible?

Read Ellen G. White, “The Creation,” pages 44–51; “The Temptation and Fall,” pages 52–62; and “The Plan of Redemption,” pages 63–70, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Adam and Eve run away from God. So, God goes looking for them. His question reaches the couple where they hide in the bushes: ‘Where are you?’ This question is really a sermon about the Good News. The Good News is that God does not want to lose Adam or Eve. He has come to find them. In the same way, God will come in the Person of Jesus to find and save lost sinners.”—Charles Haddon Spurgeon, The Treasury of the Bible (Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan Publishing House, 1962) Old Testament, volume 1, page 11, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`God is kind and caring. That is why He goes looking for sinners. He wants to save us. How can we answer this love from the Father and Jesus Christ today? How does the Lord expect us to answer Him?`

`The Bible teaches that humans fell away from God and their perfect life in the Garden of Eden. Popular science teaches a different story: that humans come from apes. Which idea offers us more hope, and why?`

`Why are loving friendships and close connections with other people so important to us? Why is a living connection to God necessary to our other friendships? Think about your connections with parents, children, friends, your wife or husband, boss, and coworkers. How do these healthy friendships and connections make our lives better?`

**Summary**: God made humans as copies of Himself. He wanted a loving friendship with us. But sin came and destroyed the connection between God and humans. God wants to heal this broken friendship with us and save us from sin. We depend on God for our life. We will understand what life really means when we become friends with the One who gives us life.