---
title: 'Remembering the Blunders'
date: 09/11/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Joshua 9

**Remembering the Blunders**

Nothing goes viral like a good blooper reel. Some videos highlight the hilarious blunders of television personalities. Others compile the disastrous fails of athletes, musicians, or other performers. Although some entertainers might be happy to be remembered for their blunders, most high-profile leaders would rather be celebrated for their more respectable achievements. Prominent leaders such as kings, presidents, and generals often do their best to cover up their mistakes and emphasize or even exaggerate their successes. Managing their public image is a top priority. They pay public relations professionals and harness the influence of media outlets to report their decisions and achievements in the most positive light possible. Kings in the ancient Middle East were the same—quick to publicize and memorialize their military victories and other outstanding achievements. Archeologists have recovered many ancient artifacts that boast of conquest and domination. What’s often absent from the record are the mistakes, failures, or losses of a victorious king or kingdom.

In stark contrast, biblical history is replete with unflattering details about the experiences of Israel and its leaders. The Bible is particularly honest about the mistakes of its most iconic heroes. If the Bible were nothing more than a history of the nation of Israel, it certainly would’ve been in their best national interest for Israel to drop some of the more embarrassing episodes from their records. However, because the Bible is an inspired document with the broader purpose of teaching God’s people throughout time, the stories of both the good and the bad were carefully preserved to instruct and warn God’s people.

The book of Joshua records a rather humiliating story wherein Joshua and the other national leaders displayed a disappointing lack of spiritual discernment, resulting in the successful trickery of some mysterious visitors. Mistakes made at Ai were repeated here with the Gibeonites. Once again, the Israelites rushed ahead without waiting to receive God’s guidance. The Bible records that Joshua and the other leaders “did not ask counsel of the LORD” (Josh. 9:14). The rulers of Israel agreed to a peace treaty with this visiting delegation and got badly scammed. When the mistake was discovered, the tide of public opinion turned against Joshua and his fellow leaders: “And all the congregation complained against the rulers” (v. 18). Because of this mistake, Joshua faced a crisis of credibility as a leader.

In the ensuing battles (described in Josh. 10), God helped Joshua regain the Israelites’ respect. By the time the book of Joshua was written, Joshua had become a national hero. The people of Joshua’s generation would not have objected if someone had conveniently forgotten to record this story. However, the Bible does not present sanitized history. Like many disappointing stories in the Bible, this chapter of Israel’s history helps teach later generations the dangers of self-reliance.

In an age when so much is fake and glossed over, people yearn for something genuine. The history in the Bible challenges us today to be honest about our mistakes and truthful with the stories we tell. We should be willing to own our blunders so that we don’t make the same errors again. When we do make an unwise decision, God is gentle with us and willing to help us repair, as much as possible, the damage done. In God’s story, our failures do not define us. God’s grace is strong to forgive, restore, and rebuild when we suffer from taking a wrong course of action. As we study this challenging story of Joshua and the leaders of Israel, we must pray that we discern the lessons it contains and gain the courage to recognize our own mistakes and learn from our own experiences.

### inScribe

_Write out Joshua 9:1–15 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map all of Joshua 9._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `