---
title: 'Honoring Rash Promises'
date: 10/11/2025
---

### inGest

Israel’s victories at Jericho and Ai caused a stir among the tribes of Canaan. There were two immediate reactions to the encroaching threat of invasion: Several tribes, including the Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, and Hivites, formed an alliance to defeat the Israelites. The Gibeonites, on the other hand, resorted to deception.

A delegation from Gibeon set out to meet Joshua, hoping to trick him into signing a peace treaty with them. To sell their deception, they cobbled together a collection of convincing props—moldy bread, worn-out sacks, patched clothes, and broken sandals. When they arrived in Gilgal, they said they came “from a far country” (Josh. 9:6). The problem was that God had expressly forbidden Israel from making treaties with the Canaanite nations (Deut. 7:2). “Perhaps you dwell among us,” the Israelite rulers countered, “so how can we make a covenant with you?” (Josh. 9:7). The Gibeonites’ continued insistence persuaded Joshua and the elders of Israel to yield to their request. Without seeking counsel from the Lord, “Joshua made peace with them, and made a covenant with them to let them live” (v. 15).

Three days later, the deception was uncovered: the Gibeonite delegation had come from four cities in the center of Canaan. The leaders’ rash decision irritated the Israelites. They were ready to break their agreement with the Gibeonites, but the leaders refused. Though the Gibeonites had fraudulently obtained the peace treaty, the leaders of Israel were unwilling to break their word. At God’s behest, Joshua made the Gibeonites their servants—woodcutters and water carriers for the service of the sanctuary—but spared their lives and allowed them to remain in Canaan.

The incident says a lot about making promises and keeping them. Losing interest, changing our minds, or finding something better doesn’t release us from our promises. The issue for Israel in this instance was hastily entering a contractual agreement without seeking God’s counsel—without taking a minute to think and pray about what they were agreeing to and the potential ramifications of their actions. It was a hard lesson to learn.

Psalm 15:1 asks, “LORD, who may abide in Your tabernacle? Who may dwell in Your holy hill?” The answer is found in the following verses, but one clause stands out in relation to the story of Joshua and the Gibeonites: “He who swears to his own hurt and does not change” (v. 4). That’s a difficult path to choose. It’s easier to change our minds after we commit to a certain course of action than it is to think things through beforehand. But the Bible is clear: don’t make promises you can’t keep.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`How can you respond when being pressured to make a decision quickly, before you’ve had time to seek God’s guidance?`

`Do people trust the promises you make? Why or why not?`