---
title: 'Telling the Truth'
date: 11/11/2025
---

### inTerpret

The Gibeonites were a formidable tribe. Their neighbors recognized that Gibeon was a “great city, like one of the royal cities,” and that “all its men were mighty” (Josh. 10:2). They were warriors who occupied the heart of Canaanite territory. However, the reports of Israel’s God had struck such terror into their hearts that they resorted to deception rather than military prowess to save their lives. Their capitulation is telling; they recognized their inability to win a fight against Israel’s God.

The question remains, though, whether they would’ve fared better if they had simply told the truth. If Rahab’s story of redemption is any indication, telling the truth would’ve gained them a better place within God’s covenant community. God would not have turned them away if they had come to Him in faith. The Gibeonites were ignorant of God’s goodness. They served idols who had to be appeased and worshiped false gods who were angry and exacting. The gods they believed in were unapproachable. Though this doesn’t excuse their lying, it certainly provides context for it. Our perception of God determines how we approach Him. Sometimes we’re tempted to approach God like the Gibeonites did. We see His might, His power, His ability to perform the impossible, yet we struggle to believe that He cares for us and looks out for us. Sometimes it feels easier to approach God with a convincing argument as to why He should help us—by reminding Him of our good deeds, for example—than to simply fall on His mercy and plead for clemency—not because we are worthy, but because He is good.

God never arbitrarily excluded other nations from His blessings. Moses taught that God “shows no partiality” and that He “loves the stranger” (Deut. 10:17, 18). So that Israel would be hospitable to the people of other nations, Moses repeatedly instructed them to “love the stranger, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt” (v. 19). If the Gibeonites had come with a genuine desire to join in the worship of the true God and had told the truth, we can assume they would’ve found a place of belonging like Rahab did. Instead, because of their deception, these warriors, citizens of a wealthy city, were bound to servitude as woodcutters and water carriers in the service of the sanctuary. They reaped a bitter harvest for their deception when the truth could have granted them much more.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How has your view of God impacted how you approach Him?`

`How has your perception of God’s character changed over time?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Joshua 9. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._