---
title: 'Embracing the Truth'
date: 13/11/2025
---

### inVite

When the Gibeonites were cornered by circumstances beyond their control, they resorted to lies. It’s a common strategy we see implemented throughout history. When Satan was plotting to usurp God, he used lies to entice a third of the angels of heaven to join him. Jesus said that the devil “is a liar and the father of it” (John 8:44). The book of Revelation refers to him as “that serpent of old, called the Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world” (12:9). Satan used lies to sever Adam’s and Eve’s close connection to God in the Garden of Eden. Since then, deception has become a part of human nature—not just speaking lies to others but also telling lies to ourselves. The Bible says, “The heart is deceitful above all things, And desperately wicked; Who can know it?” (Jer. 17:9).

Seeing all the deception we face as human beings and the harm it causes, Jesus provides a better way. In John 14:6, Jesus declared, “I am the way, the truth, and the life,” giving us the solution to the deceptions swirling around us. Perhaps the most powerful facet of this statement is how Jesus presents truth—not as an idea but as a Person. He presents Himself as the embodiment and essence of truth. Truth has a name, and it’s Jesus. Speaking about Jesus, John said, “And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth” (John 1:14). We can personally encounter the truth of Jesus through Scripture. Jesus told the Jews, “You search the Scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life; and these are they which testify of Me” (5:39). Scripture opens a portal to fellowship with Jesus, who is the Truth.

We live in a world that strives to make truth subjective. It’s common for people to believe that everybody gets to have their own truth, however they want to define it. This notion denies the possibility of any objective, undeniable truth that everybody should agree to. However, Scripture is clear that there is a single, immutable source of truth for everybody: Jesus, the Living Word. Jesus Himself said, “And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free” (John 8:32). Jesus, the Truth, offers us freedom from sin, and from deception in particular. As we allow Jesus to peel away the lies we so easily believe about ourselves and others, we find a freedom in Him that we can find nowhere else.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`How can you overcome the lies you’ve believed and embrace the truth?`