---
title: 'A Better Way'
date: 14/11/2025
---

### inSight

“Great was the indignation of the Israelites as they learned the deception that had been practiced upon them.… ‘All the congregation murmured against the princes;’ but the latter refused to break the treaty, though secured by fraud, because they had ‘sworn unto them by the Lord God of Israel.’ ‘And the children of Israel smote them not.’ The Gibeonites had pledged themselves to renounce idolatry, and accept the worship of Jehovah; and the preservation of their lives was not a violation of God’s command to destroy the idolatrous Canaanites. Hence the Hebrews had not by their oath pledged themselves to commit sin. And though the oath had been secured by deception, it was not to be disregarded. The obligation to which one’s word is pledged—if it do not bind him to perform a wrong act—should be held sacred. No consideration of gain, of revenge, or of self-interest can in any way affect the inviolability of an oath or pledge. ‘Lying lips are abomination to the Lord.’ Proverbs 12:22.…

“It would have fared better with the Gibeonites had they dealt honestly with Israel. While their submission to Jehovah secured the preservation of their lives, their deception brought them only disgrace and servitude. God had made provision that all who would renounce heathenism, and connect themselves with Israel, should share the blessings of the covenant. They were included under the term, ‘the stranger that sojourneth among you,’ and with few exceptions this class were to enjoy equal favors and privileges with Israel. The Lord’s direction was—

“ ‘If a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not vex him. But the stranger that dwelleth with you shall be unto you as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself.’ Leviticus 19:33, 34. Concerning the Passover and the offering of sacrifices it was commanded, ‘One ordinance shall be both for you of the congregation, and also for the stranger that sojourneth with you:… as ye are, so shall the stranger be before the Lord.’ Numbers 15:15.

“Such was the footing on which the Gibeonites might have been received, but for the deception to which they had resorted. It was no light humiliation to those citizens of a ‘royal city,’ ‘all the men whereof were mighty,’ to be made hewers of wood and drawers of water throughout their generations. But they had adopted the garb of poverty for the purpose of deception, and it was fastened upon them as a badge of perpetual servitude. Thus through all their generations their servile condition would testify to God’s hatred of falsehood.”—Ellen G. White, _Patriarchs and Prophets_ [1890], 506, 507.