---
title: inQuire
date: 15/11/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**The Gibeonites resort to deception:**

1. Why did the Gibeonites want a treaty with Israel instead of an alliance with their neighbors? _Read Josh. 9:1–11, 24._
2. What was the strategy of the Gibeonites to gain treaty with Israel? _In addition to the verses above, see Josh. 9:12, 13._
3. What would have been the result if the Gibeonites had appealed to God’s mercy rather than lying and pretending? _Based on God’s instructions to Moses (e.g., Deut. 10:17–19), we can safely assume God would have welcomed them into the covenant community as He did Rahab and her family (Josh. 2)._

`Personal reflection: How can you learn to speak the truth even when it's hard?`

**The leaders of Israel make a blunder:**

1. Despite their clear misgivings (Josh. 9:7, 8), why did Israel choose to believe the Gibeonites? _Read Josh. 9:14, 15._
2. Why does the Bible include unflattering stories of God’s leaders making mistakes? How does this impact how much you trust the Bible?

`Personal reflection: How have you learned from your mistakes and used your failures to do better in later situations? How can we learn to rely more on God’s guidance and less on our own wisdom?`

**Honoring promises made:**

1. Why did Joshua determine to honor this rash promise despite wide discontent among the people? _Read Josh. 9:18–20; Ps. 15:1–4._
2. How did the Israelite leaders balance honoring their promise with requiring consequences from the Gibeonites for their deception? _Read Josh. 9:21–27._

`Personal reflection: How do you decide when to make a commitment or promise and when to refrain? What alternatives are there to making an irrevocable promise?`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- It’s better to come to God pleading for His mercy than to come lying and pretending.
- The Bible is very honest about the blunders of its most iconic heroes rather than presenting a sanitized history.
- People should be able to fully trust Christians when they make a promise.