---
title:  Do You Wish To See Jesus?
date:   11/06/2026
---

Do you sometimes wish you could see Jesus when you feel sad or discouraged? Read the dream below. Imagine in your mind that you are the person who is dreaming it:

“I sat with my face in my hands. I felt very sad. I thought, ‘If Jesus were on this earth, I would go to Him. I would kneel at His feet. I would tell Him all of my suf­ferings. Jesus would show me pity. Then I would love and serve Him always. Just then, the door opened. A beautiful person entered. He looked at me with pity and said, ‘Do you wish to see Jesus? He is here. You can see Him if you wish. Take everything you own and follow me.’

“I was so happy at this news. I gladly collected all my belongings and little treasures. Then I followed my guide. He led me to some very steep stairs. The stairs didn’t look very strong or steady. I started to climb. My guide warned me to keep my eyes fixed up ahead. If I didn’t, I might get dizzy and fall. Many other people who climbed the steep stairs fell before they got to the top.

“Finally, we got to the last step and stood in front of a door. My guide told me to leave all the things I brought with me. I cheerfully laid them down. My guide opened the door and told me to enter. Then I stood in front of Jesus. His face was beautiful and filled with majesty and love. Jesus looked at me. I knew that He understood everything about my life, my secret thoughts, and feelings.

“I tried to hide myself from His searching eyes. But Jesus smiled and came close. He put His hand on my head and said, ‘Don’t be afraid.’ His sweet voice filled my heart with a happiness I never knew before. I was too joyful to say anything. Filled with happiness, I fell down at His feet. While I lay there, I saw scenes of beauty and glory. I felt as if I were in heaven. I felt so safe and peaceful. After a while, my strength came back. I stood up. Jesus’ loving eyes were looking at me. His smile filled my heart with joy. I was filled with holy love for Him. . . .

“This dream gave me hope . . . and faith. . . . And I started to understand the beauty of trusting in God.”—Ellen G. White, Early Writings, pages 79–81, adapted.

In our suffering and disappointments, we need to look to Jesus and what He shows us about God’s love for us.

`What hope does Romans 8:18, 28 give you right now?`