---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   12/06/2026
---

When we are suffering hard times or troubles, we need to hold on tight to God. The topics we studied this quarter are all about keeping your relationship with God strong. We all suffer hard times in this life: disease or poor health, money problems, a broken marriage, the death of a loved one, or other sorrows and disappointments. During these dark times, think about the questions below and the lessons we studied so far.

**Discussion Questions:**

`What troubles are you suffering right now? What do your hard times teach you about God’s love? How can you learn to see God’s love more plainly in your life today?`

`When did you last pray for God’s voice in your life to be more powerful than the enemy’s? Remember that the thief (Satan) comes to steal, kill, and destroy. But God gives life (John 10:10).`

`Is your heart empty of all pride? Do you trust that God is in control of your life? Do you believe that He is leading you, even in hard times? If no, how can you learn to trust in God’s love for you personally?`

`Are you studying God’s Word, the Bible, every day? Ask God to fill you with new love for Him again during hard times.`

`God is your Helper. Trust Him to keep His promise never to leave you. When was the last time you went to God for love, advice, pity, and help (Hebrews 13:5)?`

`If your faith is weak, pray, “ ‘I do believe! Help me to believe more!’ ” (Mark 9:24, WE). Spend time with people who encourage you.`

`Often, no one cares about people who are poor, suf­fering, hurt, broken, or weak. But God’s message is “ ‘When you are weak, my power is strong’ ” (2 Corinthians 12:9, WE). This message can improve someone’s life in a powerful way. Think of someone you can encourage with this message today.`