---
title:  Loyalty to Lords or Loyalty to Lions
date:  27/08/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Daniel 3**

**Loyalty to Lords or Loyalty to Lions**

It was the moment of truth. The music began to play, and everyone around them bowed down in obedience to King Nebuchadnezzar’s command. But Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego stood their ground. They understood that to disobey the most powerful man on earth in this manner meant a forfeiture of their lives. Yet they recognized that they owed allegiance to a power higher than any earthly potentate. They must render ultimate fealty to the God of heaven.

It was their loyalty to God that had resulted in them holding positions of great influence in the most influential nation of its time. When they were first brought to Babylon as slaves, they purposed in their hearts, along with Daniel, not to defile themselves with the king’s food (Dan. 1:8). God had rewarded their faithfulness with physical health (Dan. 1:15) and with wisdom and understanding (Dan. 1:20). Pursuant to their prayers, God revealed Nebuchadnezzar’s forgotten dream and its interpretation, which resulted in their promotion to positions of authority in Babylon.

Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were statesmen, very much engaged in the civic affairs of the greatest nation in their day. Yet they sacrificed not an iota of principle to achieve worldly influence. In fact, the more determined their loyalty to God, the more promotions they received (Dan. 3:30). Their depth of their civic engagement only increased the more decidedly they demonstrated their worship of the one true God.

This week, we explore how faithful observance of the Sabbath commandment undergirds our civic engagement.

#### inScribe

Write out Daniel 3 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Daniel 3:16–18. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `