---
title:  By What Right?
date:  28/08/2022
---

#### inGest

In response to a royal command, Daniel appeared before King Nebuchadnezzar to explain a mysterious dream the king had. The reason for the dream was that God wanted the king to know that “the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will” (Dan. 4:17, 25, 32, KJV). Nebuchadnezzar had also had a prior encounter with the sovereign power of God, which had “changed the king’s word” (Dan. 3:28, KJV). In an expression of praise to God, Daniel also said, “He removeth kings, and setteth up kings” (Dan. 2:21, KJV).

What gives God the right to “interfere” with the plans of earthly rulers, to enthrone or depose them? The Bible leaves none in doubt on this point!

Prior to King Nebuchadnezzar’s destruction of Jerusalem in 586 BC, God sent a blunt warning by the prophet Jeremiah to Judah and to the surrounding nations. The prologue to this warning states in part, “I have made the earth, the man and the beast that are upon the ground, by my great power and by my outstretched arm, and have given it unto whom it seemed meet unto me” (Jer. 27:5, KJV). God here uses His office of Creator as the basis for His right to set kings up and to set them down (Acts 17:24, 25).

In his address on Mars Hill to the Athenian intelligentsia, Paul set forth God as Creator and sustainer of creation. On this basis, God “determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation” (Acts 17:26, KJV).

The Sabbath commandment is, among a host of other things, a regular and much needed reminder to finite human beings that because God created, He has the final say in human affairs. This should be a source of comfort to the obedient child of God who lives under the authority of one secular power or another.

The God-fearing citizen of any nation is required by God to “render to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s and to God the things that are God’s” (Mark 12:17). But the things of God always take precedence over the things of Caesar. This is so because Caesar’s right to rule is given to him by God. God’s right to rule is inherent in His creatorship! Jesus told Pilate, “Thou couldest have no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above” (John 19:11, KJV). “From above” most certainly refers to the Father who exercises universal authority.

The Psalmist says of God, “But our God is in the heavens: he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased” (Ps. 115:3, KJV). This unfettered freedom, this rock-solid right to act as He chooses rests securely on God’s status as Creator. Paul states, “For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him, and for him: And he is before all things, and by him all things consist” (Col. 1:16, 17, KJV).

The one who trusts implicitly in God may do his or her civic duty with the liberating awareness that God, the Creator of all things, is in final control. He has a right to overrule human propositions that are contrary to His overarching plan for the restoration of all things.

The Sabbath commandment expresses this right, and Sabbath-keeping acknowledges it.

` `