---
title:  Make It Known
date:  29/08/2022
---

#### inTerpret

A relationship with God has both a private and public aspect. The surrender is done privately in the heart; the resulting obedience or changed lifestyle is public. If the private aspect is genuine, the unstoppable result is an outward display of selfless devotion. This display has as its aim the glory of God. Jesus said, “That they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven” (Matt. 5:16, KJV). In a similar vein Peter wrote, “They may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation” (1 Pet. 2:12, KJV).

The public, the onlooker, the bystander must somehow be affected by the lifestyle of the believer. That lifestyle is a form of instruction to the observer. In the Sabbath commandment, this public element is directly stated. The Sabbath text reads, “In it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates” (Exod. 20:10, KJV). It is obvious from this passage that direct communication or instruction must be made to the son, the daughter, the manservant, the maid servant, and the stranger. The “stranger” refers to non-Israelites living within Israelite cities or territories, or to a stranger in an Israelite home. They must know that the household or community honors God’s Sabbath. This is a public declaration!

This requirement applies to the workplace and the classroom. It is unfortunately the case that many Sabbath-keeping young people in their places of study or work try to hide their religion under a bushel. This is almost always done to fit in with their unbelieving friends, who unashamedly make their ungodly lives public! As surely as God is glorified by His people making their Sabbath-keeping known, so surely is He robbed of glory when they conceal it.

The testimony of the three Hebrew men to Nebuchadnezzar is a stirring example of God being glorified by the public faithfulness of His people. They said, “But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up” (Dan. 3:18, KJV). They left the king with no doubt as to where they stood.

How solemn and frightening is this declaration, “But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven” (Matt. 10:33, KJV).

Oh, that every Seventh-day Adventist, especially the youth, would live an openly (not ostentatiously) obedient life that quietly shouts to the world, “Be it known unto thee, oh world!”

` `