---
title:  Remember Who You Are
date:  31/08/2022
---

#### inVite

The fourth commandment as articulated in Exodus 20 begins with the word remember. Forgetting the Sabbath day does not change the fact that it is the Sabbath. The commandment continues that we are to “keep it holy.” Remembering the Sabbath is not what makes it holy. It is already holy—all we are to do is acknowledge its sanctity and enter into holiness. Contrary to many a Sabbatarian’s inclination, then, the Sabbath does not need us to protect it. (In fact, the Sabbath protects us, as we shall discuss in lesson 12.)

Just like the Sabbath, Christ, the Author of the Sabbath, needs no external affirmation of His identity. Even when He was receiving positive feedback, He placed no stock in what people thought of Him (John 2:23–25). Philippians 2:6, 7 tells us that when Christ came to earth, though He was “in very nature God” (NIV), He “did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped” (ESV), “but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men” (KJV). So secure was Christ in His identity that He was willing to be perceived as the lowliest, that He might secure our salvation.

Perhaps the greatest barrier to us engaging the world is fear. We are afraid that we might be misunderstood. We are afraid of being influenced into worldliness. We are afraid we will be irrelevant. But “God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind” (2 Tim. 1:7). That same confidence we see in Christ may be ours as He dwells within us (cf. John 10:10).

Furthermore, observing the Sabbath is a weekly reminder of who we are in relation to our Creator and His creation. Sabbath worship affirms and anchors our identity in Christ. As we worship the Creator on His appointed day, our lives are infused with confident assurance, which in turn frees us to engage the world around us. Our identity is grounded in our Creator, our moral compass is set. We need not fear that the world will taint us because we are secure in Christ.

Like Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, we may engage the politics of our day in whatever capacity God calls us to, with confidence. Moreover, with our identity secure in Christ, it will be clear how we should engage the world around us. As Ellen White writes: “Dear youth, what is the aim and purpose of your life? Are you ambitious for education that you may have a name and position in the world? Have you thoughts that you dare not express, that you may one day stand upon the summit of intellectual greatness; that you may sit in deliberative and legislative councils, and help to enact laws for the nation? There is nothing wrong in these aspirations. You may every one of you make your mark. You should be content with no mean attainments. Aim high, and spare no pains to reach the standard.” (Ellen G. White, Messages to Young People (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald, 1930), 36.)

`How would you explain what it means to find your identity in Christ?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`