---
title:  Love the Stranger
date:  25/10/2021
---

Amid these admonitions Moses declares: “ ‘Indeed heaven and the highest heavens belong to the Lord your God, also the earth with all that is in it’ ” (Deut. 10:14, NKJV). What a powerful expression of the sovereignty of the Lord, an idea found in other places in the Bible, as well: “The earth is the Lord’s, and all its fullness, the world and those who dwell therein” (Ps. 24:1, NKJV).

`Read Deuteronomy 10:17–19. What other declaration does Moses make about the Lord here? Even more important, what does God command His people as a result of that declaration?`

Yahweh is not only the sovereign of heaven and earth, but He also is the “God of gods, and Lord of lords” (Deut. 10:17). This doesn’t mean that there are other gods, lesser gods, such as the supposed gods the pagans around them worshiped. Rather, it was a way of talking about more than just His being the only God (“ ‘ “Now see that I, even I, am He, and there is no God besides Me” ’ ” [Deut. 32:39, NKJV]). It asserts His total supremacy over all other powers, real or imagined, either in heaven or on earth.

The text says, too, that He is “the great God, mighty and awesome, who shows no partiality nor takes a bribe.” All of this is part of the bigger message: Yahweh is your God, and you, His people, need to obey Him.

What a powerful contrast is being presented here, as well. Yes, Yahweh is the God of gods and Lord of lords, the sovereign Ruler and Sustainer of the creation (Col. 1:16, 17), but He also cares about the fatherless, the widow, and the stranger, and He shows that care by ministering to their immediate physical needs. The God who takes note if a sparrow falls to the ground (Matt. 10:29) knows about the plight of those on the margins of society. In other words, the Lord is telling the people that, OK, maybe you are chosen, you are special, and I love you, but I love others, too, including the needy and helpless among you. And just as I love them, you must love them, as well. This is one of your covenant obligations, and an important one, too.

`Read Psalm 146:5–10. What is the message of the psalm that reflects what God is saying here, and what should this mean to us today, as Christians?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In the creation of man was manifest the agency of a personal God. When God had made man in His image, the human form was perfect in all its arrangements, but it was without life. Then a personal, self-existing God breathed into that form the breath of life, and man became a living, intelligent being. All parts of the human organism were set in action. The heart, the arteries, the veins, the tongue, the hands, the feet, the senses, the faculties of the mind, all began their work, and all were placed under law. Man became a living soul. Through Christ the Word, a personal God created man and endowed him with intelligence and power. . . .<br/>
Above all lower orders of being, God designed that man, the crowning work of His creation, should express His thought and reveal His glory. But man is not to exalt himself as God.—_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 415.

That God who marks the fall of a sparrow, marks your deportment and your feelings; He marks your envy, your prejudice, your attempt to justify your action in the least matter of injustice. When you misconceive the words and acts of another, and your own feelings are stirred, so that you make incorrect statements, and it is known that you are at variance with your brother, you lead others, through their confidence in you, to regard him just as you do; and by the root of bitterness springing up, many are defiled. . . .<br/>
Now God requires that you who have thus done the least injustice to another shall confess your fault, not only to the one you have injured, but to those who through your influence have been led to regard their brother in a false light, and to make of none effect the work God has given him to do. . . .<br/>
Whatever the character of your sin, confess it. If it is against God only, confess only to Him. If you have wronged or offended others, confess also to them, and the blessing of the Lord will rest upon you. In this way you die to self, and Christ is formed within.—_Sons and Daughters of God_, p. 309.

Christ recognized no distinction of nationality or rank or creed. The scribes and Pharisees desired to make a local and a national benefit of the gifts of heaven and to exclude the rest of God’s family in the world. But Christ came to break down every wall of partition. He came to show that His gift of mercy and love is as unconfined as the air, the light, or the showers of rain that refresh the earth.<br/>
The life of Christ established a religion in which there is no caste, a religion by which Jew and Gentile, free and bond, are linked in a common brotherhood, equal before God. No question of policy influenced His movements. He made no difference between neighbors and strangers, friends and enemies. That which appealed to His heart was a soul thirsting for the waters of life.—_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 25.