---
title:  Redemption Checklist
date:   23/07/2017
---

**Logos**: Acts 5:30; Rom. 4:4–6; 13:8–10; 1 Cor. 1:23; Gal 3:1–10

**Exposing the Folly (1 Cor. 1:23; Gal. 3:1–5)**

Though brought up in a strict Jewish culture, Paul went through a complete transformation after accepting Christ. He became a messenger of God, preaching the gospel of a crucified Christ. He put aside all the teachings, philosophy, and oratory of his past life to embrace a new life in Christ.

In 1 Corinthians 1:23, Paul stresses the point that the gospel of Christ is foolishness and a stumbling block to those who still stick with worldly wisdom. On the contrary, to the redeemed, the gospel is the blessed hope, delivering a fountain of joy to all who believe.

**Abraham received salvation through faith in the One who would come. We receive salvation through faith in the One who has come—Christ.**

“The sensual, the covetous, the proud, and the ambitious, alike see that the gospel opposes their favorite pursuits. But those who receive the gospel, and are enlightened by the Spirit of God, see more of God’s wisdom and power in the doctrine of Christ crucified, than in all his other works.”1

Salvation changes the way we reason. Sticking to a worldly point of view means that we are still of the world, even if we purport to be Christians. At some point, we begin to misapply the Scriptures, use them to justify our own self-interests, and avoid what the Word of God actually reveals. If it happened to members of the church in Galatia, it can happen to us too.

**The Meaning of Redemption (Gal. 3:1–5)**

Paul rebukes and calls the Galatians foolish.This means something is missing in their system of knowledge and understanding, especially concerning the work of Christ in believers.The Galatians had become inconsistent in their behavior.

The main point that Paul emphasizes here is that “through the Spirit we eagerly await by faith the righteousness for which we hope” (Gal. 5:5, NIV). The theme of Galatians 3:1–5 is to point every Christian in the right direction for obtaining righteousness.In this passage, Paul is trying to help the Galatians see the foolishness of their actions.They contradicted the work of Christ on the cross. They denied the Spirit access to their lives. They forgot that when we become Christians we assume a new status. “Becoming a Christian always involvesthe coming of Christ’s Spirit. .. .As aChristian youareno longer your own; you have been bought by Christ and possessed by his Spirit.”2

**Our Debt as Christians (Rom. 13:8–10)**

The Bible confirms that love is the foundation of all Christian activity (John 13:34, 35). God loves us all, and if we truly want to represent Him, we must display the quality of brotherly love in our lives.Paul echoes the same principle when he writes to the Romans. “Love does no harm to a neighbor. Therefore love is the fulfillment of the law” (Rom. 13:10, NIV).

From this passage, we learn important lessons. First off, it teaches Christians that we owe the debt of love to everyone. Paul emphasizes that believers should love one another, including those outside their faith.

In Luke 10:29–37, Christ pointed out that the thread of love runs beyond the circumference of our faith. “It applies to people whom we may not especially like and to those who have wronged us. We do not necessarily have to like them; we do need to love them.We need to treat them as we treat ourselves.”3

**Example of “Righteous” (Gen. 15:6)**

Abraham remains the father of faith for all Christians. From the call to leave his own country (Gen. 12:1) to the covenant with God (Genesis 15), the patriarch exuded strong faith in God. Neither by living a perfect life nor by responding to God’s promises but by a display of faith was Abraham counted righteous.

Paul uses this verse to remind the Galatians of the fact that salvation by faith is nothing new. Even in the Old Testament, God looked for faith not works.

“When Moses says Abram’s faith was reckoned for righteousness it does not mean that Abram’s faith was, in some fashion, exchanged for righteousness. Abram’s faith, like ours today, was not something which he conjured up by mental or spiritual effort. Faith itself is a gift (Ephesians 2:8-9).”4

From the Old Testament to the New Testament, the way of salvation has remained the same. God is immutable, and always He has saved people by grace through faith only. Abraham received salvation through faith in the One who would come.We receive salvation through faith in the One who has come—Christ.

**React**

`1. While we sin at different levels, why do you think Christ redeemed us by the same price, that is, His own blood?`

`2. What happens when we try to receive salvation by works?`

`3. How does faith help us to receive salvation?`

<sup>1. Matthew Henry Commentary, “1 Corinthians 1:23,” Biblehub.com, accessed May 12, 2016, http://biblehub.com/1_corinthians/1-23.htm.</sup>
<sup>2 .John Piper,“CanYou Begin by the Spirit and Be Completed by the Flesh? DesiringGod .org, accessed May 12, 2016, http://www.desiringgod.org/messages/can-you-begin-by-the-spirit-and-be-completed-by-the-flesh.</sup>
<sup>3. Steven J. Cole, “Lesson 90: The Debt You Always Owe (Romans 13:8–10),” Bible .org, accessed May 12, 2016, https://bible.org/seriespage/lesson-90-debt-you-always-owe-romans-138-10.</sup>
<sup>4. Bob Deffinbaugh, “The Focal Point of Abram’s Faith (Genesis 15:1–21),” Genesis: From Paradise to Patriarchs, Bible.org, accessed May 12, 2016, https://bible.org/seriespage/16-focal-point-abram-s-faith-genesis-151-21.</sup>

_Augenia Nzuve, Nairobi, Kenya_