---
title:  Abraham—Our Symbol of Faith
date:   25/07/2017
---

**Evidence**: Rom. 4:3

For Abraham, “he had a habitual disposition to believe and obey God. . . . And he began to exercise it when God first called him to leave his native country.”1 This characteristic of Abraham to exhibit faith that leads to righteousness is an object lesson for Christians today. It fulfills the fact that “a person is justified by faith apart from the works of the law” (Rom. 3:28, NIV).

Regardless of our worldly positions, whether we are rich or poor, with or without degrees, God looks at us the same way.

However, does that mean we forget about the law? Paul answers this question by saying, “Certainly not! On the contrary, we establish the law” (verse 31, NKJV).There is a essential link between faith and the law, which Paul wanted his readers to understand. Many Christians, including members of the church in Galatia, thought that it was possible to acquire salvation through some acts of kindness or observing the law to the letter.Those who hold that opinion find themselves in a servant-master scenario, thinking that only good deeds and following the law can save them.

However, there is a betterway of upholding thelaw.“Thelaw isdesigned to lead people to the gospel, and the gospel does not nullify the law in the same way that the Messiah does not nullify the prophecies that predicted his coming. Rather, he fulfills them. Similarly, the gospel fulfills the law, . . . and accomplishes what the law could only point at.”2

Abraham provides Christians with an approach to righteousness which they need not brag about because they have done something to achieve it.Instead, they just need to accept it because righteousness is a “pure act of grace on the part of God.”3

As Seventh-dayAdventists, we should not allow other things to mar our faith in Christ.Regardless of our worldly positions, whether we are rich or poor, with or without degrees, God looks at us the same way. Only our level of faith in what Christ can do in our lives determines our righteousness.

**React**

`1. How does the law point us to the gospel?`

`2. What are some of the things that affect our faith in God?`

1. Benson Commentary,“Romans 4:3,” Biblehub.com, accessed May 12, 2016, http://biblehub.com/commentaries/romans/4-3.htm.

2. Michael Morrison, “The Example of Abraham: A Study of Romans 4,” Gci.org, accessed May 12, 2016, https://www.gci.org/bible/rom4.

3. Ellicott’s Commentary for English Readers, “Romans 4:3,” Biblehub.com, accessed May 12, 2016, http://biblehub.com/commentaries/romans/4-3.htm.

_Grace Mwende, Nairobi, Kenya_