---
title:  Why We Need Redemption
date:   26/07/2017
---

**How-to**: Rom. 3:23

Paul reminds his readers that everyone needs God’s grace and redemption.As sinfulhumans, we have no place in God’s kingdom.However,when we accept Christ and believe in His promises, we become right with God again. God no longer remembers our sinful past as long as we believe in Christ and allow Him to control our lives.

What this means is that sin and death no longer have power over us.

The blood of Christ was the ultimate price ever paid for our redemption. When we accept Christ, our life changes, as the Holy Spirit begins to direct our ways to righteousness. Just as God delivered the people of Israel from Egypt and gave them a new land, in the same way Christ redeemed us by His own blood and gave us a new identity. What this means is that sin and death no longer have power over us. We have been reconciled to God through Christ. By faith in Christ, we can realize the achievements of redemption in our lives:

_1. Our sins are forgiven (Eph. 1:7)._ Through His death, Christ washed away our sins and made us right with God again. This was an act of grace from God to His children.

_2. We have access to eternal life (Rev. 5:9, 10)._ Redemption gives us access to eternal life. When we sin, we deserve eternal death. However, God, through His everlasting love, has given us a second chance to live. This is not because we have done anything good but because of our faith in Christ.

_3. We establish a relationship with God (Rom. 5:17)._ Sin distorts our relationship with God. However, when we accept Christ as our Savior, He is able to reinstate us to the royal family of God’s kingdom.

_4. This allows the Holy Spirit to live in us (1 Cor.6:19,20)._ The Holy Spirit cannot live in us if we are unholy. By accepting Christ to live in us, we allow the Spirit to direct our lives as well.

Even though we had sinned and deserved the wrath of God, through redemption we are new creations. It is through the act of redemption that we can stand up and face the tribulations of this world with confidence, knowing that we have the best life hereafter.

**React**

`1. What other benefit of redemption can you mention?`

`2. If Christ already redeemed us through His death, why do we have to pray or come to church?`

_Charles Mwendwa, Nunguni, Kenya_