---
title:  The Gospel Concealed
date:   27/07/2017
---

**Opinion**: Gen. 12:1–3

Many times, I put myself in the position of the Israelites in the land of Pharaoh. They faced stiff odds and many challenges. However, God promised to deliver them and reconcile them in a new land (Exod. 6:6).

Some of the challenges we face as Christians today are similar. There are instances in which Christians have met their death because of their faith. When we find ourselves in the hands of an oppressor, we seek deliverance. Satan is an oppressor, working very hard to lure us to sin and eternal death. Like the Israelites in the hands of Pharaoh, we are caught up in the web of sin. Unless we get deliverance, we can continue and die in sin.

The events in the life of Abraham reﬂect how God works in the lives of those who believe in Him.

However, the Bible is clear that God, through His Son Jesus, extended grace to sinful people. The death of Christ on the cross certified our justification and reconciliation to God (Rom. 3:24). Through His death, we can receive the power to resist sin.This is possible when we have faith in Christ.

Abraham, by his own power, could not receive justification. However, he had faith in God’s promises. For example, when Abraham asked God for a son, he knew the promise was not physically attainable. However, he trusted God and believed in His ability and faithfulness. He leaned not on his own understanding.

How many Christians today put their abilities first before faith? The question of faith is not new to Christians. It was there in the Old Testament, during apostolic times, and now in our time. Our role as Christians is to learn from the heroes of faith such as Abraham.

We are hopeless in our own abilities. Our works, lifestyle, or good deeds cannot save us. The only way to get salvation is through faith in God’s promises. The events in the life of Abraham reflect how God works in the lives of those who believe in Him. He received righteousness through faith in God. In the same way, God has extended grace to us through Christ. Ours is to accept the grace through the gift of faith.

**React**

`1. If God saves sinners, does that allow me to be a sinner?`

`2. What is the evidence that God’s promises shall be fulfilled?`

_Victoria Nduku, Nairobi, Kenya_