---
title:  A Scripture-Based Life
date:   28/07/2017
---

**Exploration**: Rom. 4:3

**Conclude**

The Scriptures are to be our guide for every aspect of our lives.We must know what they say and then pray as we daily enter into a study of the Bible, praying for the Holy Spirit’s help in putting what we learn into effect in our lives. With God’s blessing, this can lead to a life that is grounded in God’s Word.

**Consider**

- Contrasting and comparing the Christian, Jewish, and Greek ideas of Christ crucified (1 Cor. 1:23–25). How did their lifestyles contribute to their acceptance of Christ? Were they grounded in Scripture?
- Writing an article discussing the pros and cons of living a Scripture-based life.
- Reflecting on things you could do to improve your life in the Scriptures. Make a list of five things you can do to improve your scriptural life. Prioritize your list.
- Memorizing several Bible verses that are a comfort to you. Make a recording of these verses and share it with your friends.
- Observing nature quietly for 30 minutes. Find Bible verses that talk about seven objects that you observed.
- Designing a book of important Bible promises. Make several categories of promises, such as encouragement, sleep, love, comfort, overcoming, the Second Coming, etc.
- Preparing a speech that Paul might have given to the Galatians. Role-play it with the class being the Galatians. How did they respond to being called “foolish Galatians”?
- Designing a poster about how we can be “grounded in Scripture.”

**Connect**

- Matthew 22:29; John 5:39; Romans 15:4; 2 Timothy 3:15–17.
- Ellen G.White, The Great Controversy,chapter 37, “The Scriptures a Safeguard”; My Life Today,p. 320.
- Arthur T. Pierson, Knowing the Scriptures: Rules and Methods of Bible Study.
- R.C. Sproul, Knowing Scripture (IVP Books, 2009).

_Karen Pires, Pendleton, South Carolina, USA_