---
title:  Doorbell Christianity
date:  15/06/2019
---

**Introduction**: Gen. 18:1–8

Hot. That was the only word to describe the day. Samuel looked across the afternoon sky, but there was no relief in sight. Hot, hot, hot. He gazed up at yet another house. Time to ring the doorbell. As his finger pushed the button, his attitude immediately changed into one of enthusiasm and interest. A short, stout woman answered the door.

“Hello! My name is Samuel, and I would like to show you—” “Why, hello! Come on in! You must be hot!” she exclaimed.

“Thank you very much! I can’t wait to tell you about my vacuum cleaners!” Samuel responded with relief. He entered the doorway and overheard two children arguing. One started crying, and the woman bellowed, “Ya’ll keep quiet in there, ya hear?” The crying escalated into screaming. “Excuse me,” she said.

Samuel covered his ears to keep out the yells and screams. The woman returned presently.

“Now, what do we have here?” she asked. Samuel proceeded to tell and then demonstrate his state-of-the-art vacuum cleaner amid yelling back and forth between the woman and the children. Somewhere in the cacophony, he heard a man’s booming voice too. Samuel grew increasingly uneasy as the tension in the house mounted.

“I’ll take one!” the woman said. The man’s voice hollered back, “No, you won’t!” After even more debate, the deal was sealed as quickly as possible (on Samuel’s part), and Samuel made a mad dash for the door.

“Come again soon!” the woman said with a friendly smile. No way! Samuel thought to himself. Several doorbells later, Samuel had been cursed at, lectured to, and given the cold shoulder. He was merely selling vacuums. A simple “No, thank you” would suffice for those not interested.

Brrrrring! The doorbell sounded through the house, but no one answered, yet again. As Samuel turned to leave, the door opened quickly.

“I’m so sorry I took so long to answer!” a younger woman apologized. “Please come in. I was just taking cookies out of the oven. Would you like some?” This home was different from the other homes. There was a peace and a calm he hadn’t felt all day. No rudeness. No yelling. Although the family didn’t buy anything, Samuel left the house joyful and refreshed. What would he have encountered at your house?

---

_Kristi Rich, Wenatchee, Washington, USA_