---
title:  Being God’s Example Starts at Home
date:  16/06/2019
---

**Evidence**: Genesis 33; 1 Pet. 2:9

The most important mission Jesus ever gave us was to paint a picture of Him to the world. He wants us to be His hands and feet. He longs for us to exude His character and His love in everything we say and do. As 1 Peter 2:9 says, we were “chosen to tell about the wonderful acts of God” (NCV). But as we look back on our lives, have we been the examples He wanted us to be—not only to strangers but to our own families, as well?

For most of us, the answer is probably no. We might be examples when we leave the house, but those examples seem to fade the second we get home. We begin to treat our family members with contempt instead of love. You’ve heard the saying that “charity begins at home,” but have you ever thought that perhaps being examples for God starts there as well? If people came to your house, would they see evidence of God’s presence, or would they leave thinking He wasn’t there at all?

Getting along with the closest people in our lives can be difficult at times. But in order for others to witness God’s love in our homes, we need to show that love and care to our families first. Jacob’s experience with his brother Esau is a good example to study. Their relationship is one of the most complicated ones in the entire Bible. It is safe to say that they didn’t get along very well, and when Jacob stole Esau’s birthright, their relationship suffered a great deal. Being estranged for years makes what happens in Genesis 33 even more powerful. In verse three, we find Jacob bowing “down flat on the ground seven times as he was walking toward his brother” (Gen. 33:3, NCV). In bowing down seven times, Jacob shows Esau a respect that he had failed to show his brother years earlier. It is a lesson about humility and repentance in family relationships to bring reconciliation.

Humility is the beginning of a love that should shine through every corner of our homes. We don’t want to be accused of being two-faced liars—of claiming to be Christians in public but hypocrites at home. So strive to be like Jacob, whose humility saved his relationship with his brother.

**React**

`1. In what ways can you show love to your family members so that your homes will radiate God’s presence?`

`2. Have you ever experienced a strained relationship with any of your siblings? If so, how did you deal with it?`

---

_Mindi Vetter, Newman Lake, Washington, USA_