---
title:  Happy, Happy Home
date:  18/06/2019
---

**Testimony**: Prov. 4:23

“God wants the home to be the happiest place on earth, the very symbol of the home in heaven.”1

“The restoration and uplifting of humanity begins in the home. The work of parents underlies every other. Society is composed of families, and is what the heads of families make it. Out of the heart are ‘the issues of life’ (Proverbs 4:23); and the heart of the community, of the church, and of the nation is the household. The well-being of society, the success of the church, the prosperity of the nation, depend upon the home influences.”2

“Our time here is short. We can pass through this world but once; as we pass along, let us make the most of life. The work to which we are called does not require wealth or social position or great ability. It requires a kindly, self-sacrificing spirit and a steadfast purpose. A lamp, however small, if kept steadily burning, may be the means of lighting many other lamps. Our sphere of influence may seem narrow, our ability small, our opportunities few, our acquirements limited; yet wonderful possibilities are ours through a faithful use of the opportunities of our own homes. If we will open our hearts and homes to the divine principles of life we shall become channels for currents of life-giving power. From our homes will flow streams of healing, bringing life and beauty and fruitfulness where now are barrenness and dearth.”3

**React**

`1. What are your treasures that you are tempted to show off in your home as Hezekiah did? What should be your focus instead?`

`2. What are the “divine principles of life”? How can we “open our hearts and homes” to them? What can you add to your daily routine to help you imitate Christ?`

`3. What current world issues or trends are disrupting and destroying homes that God intends to be the “symbol of the home in heaven”?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, p. 102.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, p. 349.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., p. 355.</sup>

_Laura Vetter, Goodlettsville, Tennessee, USA_