---
title:  Where the Heart Is
date:  19/06/2019
---

**How-to**: Eph. 3:14, 15

The family is the first place we learn about who God is, our relationship to Him, and what He asks of us. Home is the place from which our lights shine. Unfortunately, because home is where we let down our guard, it can also be the place where we are ugliest to each other. Strained or broken family relationships can destroy the peaceful home God meant to be our spiritual foundation and a welcoming beacon to His lost children. So how do we create a family that mirrors the peace and love of God?

Seek the Holy Spirit’s presence in your life and home. God’s power changes lives (Ezek. 11:19; 2 Cor. 5:17). It’s only through His grace that we can overcome the selfishness that comes so naturally and instead serve one another in love (Gal. 5:13).

Practice humility. Pride is another key enemy of a peaceful home (Phil. 2:3). Jesus demonstrated the life of humble service He wants us to practice. Following in His footsteps means serving others—even, and maybe especially, the most difficult to love right in our own families—with humility.

Remember that love is a commitment, not a feeling. Modern culture tells us that love comes and goes based on how we feel about another person. But the biblical model of family love is based on a commitment that transcends our changeable emotions. (When was the last time you saw a romantic comedy about that?) Loyalty and faithfulness are expressions of love celebrated throughout the Bible, from the Ten Commandments to Abraham and Lot to Ruth to Christ’s view of marriage (Matt. 19:3–6). We can do many things to build closeness with our family members, but the love and commitment we share can’t depend on the emotions of the moment.

When there is brokenness, know that God is still at work. Through Christ, we may all become sons and daughters of God (2 Cor. 6:18; Rom. 8:15, 16; Gal. 4:4–7; Eph. 1:5). He is a father to the fatherless (Ps. 68:5), and only He can fill the void left when we are hurt or rejected by those closest to us. Even when your situation seems hopeless, you can trust Him to work for your good (Rom. 8:28).

**React**

`1. How has your family shaped your understanding of God?`

`2. What do you think your family communicates to others about God?`

---

_Jolene Sharp, Nashville, Tennessee, USA_