---
title:  Forget and Regret
date:  20/06/2019
---

**Opinion**: Isaiah 38; 39

Regret. Years of faithful service were overshadowed by a day of poor judgment that could bring down the kingdom of Israel. King Hezekiah must have had a sinking feeling as he spoke with the prophet Isaiah. God had been good to him—had healed him, had given him the requested sign that disrupted the course of nature and literally turned time backward. Outside Israel, the sign had not gone unnoticed, and ambassadors from Babylon had arrived to inquire about this powerful God. But instead of singing God’s praises, Hezekiah spent the day strutting like a peacock, showing off his wealth, and then sent the men on their way. What had they seen in his house? Glitter and gold without a glimpse of God. Isaiah enters, and Hezekiah sees what he has done. An opportunity wasted—a kingdom threatened.

When was the last time you experienced the sting of regret? I’m not talking about minor regret from starting on a project too late or studying too little. In my experience, the most painful regret is caused by careless words or actions that hurt someone else. Most often that person is someone in or near our own “house”—a family member, a roommate, a significant other.

Familiarity makes us lazy about being on our best behavior. Our true characters come out in the presence of those closest to us. While we should take advantage of close relationships to point people to Jesus, too often we focus on ourselves and miss opportunities to show God’s love.

Repeatedly, over several chapters in Deuteronomy, the children of Israel are admonished not to forget their deliverance from Egypt or the commands God gave (Deut. 6:6, 7). Wear them, display them, recite them; don’t ever let God’s Word be far from your mind.

Perhaps this is where Hezekiah went wrong. The king was faithful in many things, but on the day of the ambassadors’ visit, he must have forgotten to keep reciting the power of God. Instead, he focused his guests’ attention on himself and his stuff. Each of us should prayerfully make a wholehearted commitment to keeping God’s Word ever-present in our lives, not just when we go out but especially at home.

**React**

`1. When was the last time you said or did something you regretted? Why do you think it happened?`

`2. How can you keep God’s Word central in what you do each day?`

---

_Cheryl Gabel, Wenatchee, Washington, USA_