---
title:  The Ideal Family Lifestyle Is Shown to Us From the Beginning
date:  21/06/2019
---

**Exploration**: 1 Pet. 2:9

**Conclude**

Christians need to understand what God intended a family to look like. On the sixth day, God created male and female (Gen. 1:26, 27, 31). “God said, ‘Let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness’ ” (verse 26, NKJV). If the main characteristic of God is love (1 John 4:8), should not love be the very thing that people see in our Christian homes? If we live our lives imitating God, we are imitating perfection. To imitate God is to imitate who God is, what he is. God loves every one of His children. He gave us a chance to be His children and follow Him. Christ justified each one of us to imitate Him, to follow Him, to love Him. We can show the love Christ has for everyone by loving them back and showing Christ within our families.

**Consider**

- Hosting family Bible studies and vespers.
- Taking your family to volunteer at a local shelter.
- Having family days when you go out and do fun activities with your community and church.
- Pretending you are a visitor to your home, an unbeliever, and putting together your reaction to the witness that is communicated by your home and the things in it—books, artwork, food, and so on.
- Writing a short pamphlet or organizing a short workshop for church or a small group on how to prepare your home as a witness for a nonbeliever (similar to a professional presentation on how to prepare your home to prevent an elderly resident from falling on rugs or tripping on an overabundance of furniture).


**Connect**

Genesis 1:26; John 1:4; Romans 3:23, 24; 1 Corinthians 4:16; Ephesians 3:15–19; 5:1; 1 Peter 2:9.

Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, pp. 35–38; Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, pp. 740–742.

---

_Celine Weisner, Lebanon, Tennessee, USA_