---
title:  Jesus’ Messages to the Seven Churches
date:   12/01/2019
---

_The seven messages to the churches show us how Jesus met the needs of each church in the past. So, we can trust that Jesus will continue to meet our needs as a church today too._

**READ FORTHIS WEEK’S LESSON**: Revelation 2:8–3:17; Matthew 24:14–44; 1 Thessalonians 5:1–8; Hosea 12:8.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “ ‘Here is what I will do for anyone who has victory over sin. I will give that person the right [something a person has the legal power to do or get] to sit with me on my throne. In the same way, I had victory. Then I sat down with my Father on his throne’ ” (Revelation 3:21, NIrV).

**ON PATMOS ISLAND**, Jesus told John to write a letter to His people in seven churches in Asia. In the beginning, John gave the letter only to those seven churches. But John also wrote it for all Christians everywhere, now or in the past.

We see that each message has the same six parts. (1) first, Jesus says the name of each church. (2) Second, each message starts with the same words: “ ‘Here are the words of Jesus’ ” (Revelation 2:1, NIrV). Jesus also includes some word pictures that help us see that He gives each church everything it needs. (3) Next, Jesus tells each church what it is doing right or wrong. (4) Then, Jesus tells each church what to do to fix its problems. (5) Jesus tells the churches to obey the Holy Spirit. (6) Jesus makes promises to His people who win the war against sin.

Last week, we looked at Jesus’ message to the church in Ephesus. This week we will look at His messages to the other six churches. We will see that Jesus met the needs of each church in the past. So, we can trust that Jesus will continue to meet our needs as a church today too.