---
title:  Jesus’ Messages To The Churches In Smyrna And Pergamum
date:   13/01/2019
---

_The “ten days” that Jesus talks about in Revelation 2:10 are a word picture. They show us the ten years that Rome attacked Christians, from a.d. 303 until a.d. 313. The Nicolaitans said that believers should mix Bible truth with the worship of false gods._

Smyrna is a beautiful, rich city in John’s day. But the lead- ers of Smyrna make a law that forces everyone to worship the High King of Rome as a god. The people who refuse to obey this law can lose their legal power. This legal power allows them to do special things as citizens. The people who refuse to worship the High King of Rome also risk being attacked and even killed.

`In Revelation 2:8–11, Jesus shows Himself to the church in Smyrna. How does Jesus’ picture of Himself help us know what happened to the church? What warn­ ing does Jesus give Smyrna about the trouble coming in the future?`

Jesus’ message to the church in Smyrna also is for the whole Christian church during the 200 years after John’s death. The Kingdom of Rome was very mean to Christians. Rome attacked them for their faith. The “ten days” that Jesus talks about in Revelation 2:10 are a word picture. In special messages about time in the Bible, a day often is a symbol for a year. So, the “ten days” show us the ten years that Rome attacked Christians, from a.d. 303 until a.d. 313. In a.d. 313, Constantine the Great gave Christians religious freedom.

`Read Revelation 2:12–15. How does Jesus show Himself in these verses to the church in Pergamum? What does Jesus say is wrong with the church?`

False gods and their temples surround the Christians everywhere in Pergamum. Most Christians stay loyal to God. But one group starts to say that the church should mix Bible truth with the worship of false gods. They believe that if the church allows some changes, then Rome’s attacks against the church will stop. This group is named the Nicolaitans [nē-ko-lä-ē’-tәns].

The message to the church in Pergamum is a word pic- ture. It shows us the things that happened in the Christian church from a.d. 313–538. At that time, Christians won the freedom to worship God. Many believers during this time stayed loyal to the Good News about Jesus. But other believers turned away from the truth. Then the church’s faith and its love for the truth grew weak.