---
title:  Jesus’ Message To The Church In Thyatira
date:   14/01/2019
---

_Jezebel is a word picture that Jesus uses to give us an example of people who are not loyal to God._

Thyatira was not a very important city in the Roman Kingdom. The city was not famous for its way of life, art, food, or dancing the same as other Roman cities. But Thyatira was famous for one thing: it was a big place for business. In Thyatira, if you wanted to own a business or have a job, you needed to join a special business club. These clubs were named guilds. People needed to do special things to join a guild. They went to their guild’s special parties. Guild mem- bers also worshiped false gods. Some of the things that guild members did in the temples of these gods were very wrong and evil. What happened to people who did not do what their guild told them to do? They were kicked out of the guilds. Then they were not allowed to buy or sell things.

`Read Revelation 2:18–29. In these verses, how does Jesus show Himself to the church in Thyatira? Why does Jesus praise the church? What problem does the church have?`

The danger to the church in Thyatira was the same as the danger to the church in Pergamum. Both churches were in danger of giving up important Bible truths because they wanted to fit in better with the people around them. In the message to the church in Thyatira, Jesus talks about “Jezebel.” She was an evil queen, married to King Ahab. Queen Jezebel led God’s people to sin deeply against God and turn away from Him (1 Kings 16:31–33). Jezebel is a word picture that Jesus uses to give us an example of people who are not loyal to God. Who helped Jezebel do her work? Anyone who accepted Jezebel’s teaching and showed other people how to live and act the same as she did.

The church in Thyatira is a word picture for the Christian church during the Middle Ages (a.d. 538–1565). The biggest danger to the church at this time did not come from outside the church but from inside it. During this time, human ideas became more important than Bible truth. The church also taught sinners that good behavior, and not Jesus, saves them. Anyone who disagreed with the church’s new rules was attacked and even put to death. For many hundreds of years during this time, the Good News about Jesus was hidden from human hearts and minds because of these false teachings.