---
title:  Jesus’ Message To The Church In Sardis
date:   15/01/2019
---

_The church in Sardis seemed to be alive on the outside. But inside it was dead._

The city of Sardis had a wonderful history. But by the time Rome ruled the earth, Sardis already lost its fame. Sardis continued to enjoy wealth, but all its fame was old and in the past. The city was built on top of a high hill. It was not easy to walk up this hill. So, Sardis was hard to attack. The citizens of Sardis felt very safe in their city. They did not carefully guard their walls at all.

`Read Revelation 3:1–6, along with Matthew 24:42–44, and 1 Thessalonians 5:1–8.What three things in Revelation 3:1–6 does Jesus tell Christians in Sardis to do to heal their spiritual sickness? Jesus warns His people in Sardis to watch out for danger. He tells them to “ ‘ “Wake up!” ’ ” (Revelation 3:2, NIrV). How does His warning show His people they are in danger? Sardis’s history and the care­ less way that its people watched the city’s walls are a word picture. How do these two things teach us what is wrong with the spiritual lives of God’s people in Sardis?`

Jesus knows that a few members in the church in Sardis are loyal in their faith to God. But the other members in the church are not loyal. On the outside the people seem alive, but on the inside their spirits are dead. Jesus does not tell us what sin the church is guilty of doing. But the church is very lazy. The members are not spiritual at all.

Jesus’ message to Sardis is a word picture for the spiritu- al health of God’s people from about a.d. 1565 to a.d. 1740. Sardis shows us what happened in the Protestant churches after the Reformation. The Reformation was the time in the 1500s when the church in Europe woke up to Bible truth and started to make big changes. Those changes led to the start of the Protestant churches. But then the churches stopped growing in spiritual power. They stopped believing that Jesus saves us with His loving-favor. They replaced Bible truth with human thinking. The churches seemed to be alive on the outside. But inside, they were dead.

Jesus’ message to Sardis also is for all Christians every- where. There are Christians who like to talk about how wonderful their connection with Jesus was in the past. But they do not have any news to share about their experience with Jesus now. Why? Because their religion does not start in the heart. They do not believe in the Good News.