---
title:  Jesus’ Message To The Church In Philadelphia
date:   16/01/2019
---

_The open door and the shut door show us that, in 1844, Jesus changes the work He does for us in heaven’s sanctuary._

Jesus gave the 6th message to the church in the city of Philadelphia. Philadelphia means “brotherly love.” The city stood next to a trade road. Jesus named this city an “open door” because it led people to flat land that was very good for growing crops. In Bible times, sick people went to Philadelphia to heal.

`Read Revelation 3:7–9. How does Jesus show Himself in these verses to the church in Philadelphia? How does this picture help us understand the troubles that this church suffered? What do Jesus’ words, “ ‘ “I know that you don’t [do not] have much strength [power]” ’ ” (Revelation 3:8, NIrV) show us about what is happening in the church?`

Jesus’ message to Philadelphia also shows us what happened in the Protestant churches during the First and Second Awakenings, from about a.d. 1740–1844. During this time, Protestant churches in Great Britain and America woke up to Bible truth. At this time, God’s people learned it was very important to obey God’s law and to live holy lives. The “ ‘ “open door” ’ ” in Revelation 3:8 is a word picture. It explains how to enter heaven’s sanctuary. Heaven’s sanc- tuary is the place where Jesus works to save His people from sin. We know that the “ ‘ “open door” ’ ” is a word pic- ture for heaven’s sanctuary because John also talks about God’s temple in Revelation 3:12 and in Revelation 4:1, 2). God shut one door in heaven’s sanctuary. But He opened another door. These doors show us that, in 1844, Jesus changes the work He does for us in heaven.

`What hint do Revelation 3:10–13 give us that time is short and that Jesus’ Second Coming is near? What does it mean that God will write His name on His people (read 2 Timothy 2:19)? In Bible times, a person’s name showed us what was in someone’s heart. What does Exodus 34:6 tell us about the people who have God’s name written on them?`

God’s name is a word picture for His love and His law. God’s promise to write His name on His people shows us that everyone on earth will see God’s people obey His law and show His love.