---
title:  Christians In The Church In The City Of Laodicea
date:   17/01/2019
---

_The Laodicean Christians were poor, naked, and blind to their spiritual needs._

Jesus’ last message was to the church in Laodicea. Laodicea was a rich city. It was located on the main busi- ness road in the Roman Kingdom. Laodicea was famous for its wool, its banks, and a medical school that made a special lotion to heal the eyes. The city’s banks were full of gold. The riches of the city “puffed up” the heads and hearts of the citizens with pride. Around the year a.d. 60, an earthquake destroyed the city. The Roman Kingdom wanted to help the people of Laodicea build their city again. But the Laodicean people said no to Rome’s help because they felt they had everything they needed right there in Laodicea to do the job on their own. One thing Laodicea did not have was water. So, water had to be brought to the city in underground pipes. These pipes carried the water from hot springs in Hierapolis. Because Hierapolis was very far away, the water temperature changed from hot to warm when it arrived in Laodicea. In fact, it was not hot or cold. Another word for water that is not hot and not cold is lukewarm water.

`Read Revelation 3:14–17 and Hosea 12:8. In Revelation 3, what does Jesus tell us about Laodicea’s problems? How do the things you learned about Laodicea help you understand why Jesus tells His church in Laodicea to do some special things to fix its problems? How did the proud spirit of the city also fill the Laodicean Christians?`

The Christians in Laodicea were the same as the water that reached their city: they were not cold or hot. They were only “lukewarm.” They bragged about their riches and how they did not need anything. But Jesus showed them that they were poor, naked, and blind to their spiritual needs.

The church in Laodicea in John’s day is a word picture. It clearly shows us the spiritual health of the Christian church at the end of this earth’s history. In Revelation 16:15, Jesus warns His people living in the last days to get dressed so that no one will see that they are naked. He wants His people to put on the “clothes” He offers to the Laodiceans in Revelation 3:17, 18. But God’s church in the end times feels no need for Jesus. Jesus warns His end-time church what will happen if they choose to stay naked: they will not be saved when He comes back.