---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   18/01/2019
---

_Jesus gives Laodicea only one promise. But it is the biggest promise of all: to sit with Jesus on His throne (Revelation 3:21)._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: Read Ellen G. White, “The Revelation [to remove the cover from something so that it can be seen],” page 578–592, in The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers].

Jesus’ seven messages to the churches in Asia show how the spiritual power of the churches grows weaker. The church in Ephesus continued to be loyal to Bible truth. But the church did not love the truth the same way it did before when it first fell in love with Jesus. Most of the church members in Smyrna and Philadelphia stayed loyal to God. The churches in Pergamum and Thyatira were divided between their loyalty to Jesus and wanting to be accepted by the people on this earth. They accepted more and more wrong teachings until they fully turned away from Bible truth. The church in Sardis was in deep need for help. Most of its members did not live in agreement with the Good News. But there was a small group in the church in Sardis that stayed loyal to God. The church in Philadelphia shows us the time when God’s people were loyal to Him and obeyed His law, but they were few in number. The spiritual health of the church in Laodicea was so bad that Jesus did not have any- thing good to say about that church at all.

At the end of His message to each church, Jesus makes promises to the people in those churches who follow His advice. Now let us look at something wonderful about the promises that Jesus makes to the churches. Do you see that the weaker that each church becomes, the more help Jesus offers it and the more promises He makes to it? Just look at the church in Ephesus. Jesus gives that church only one promise. But as the spiritual life of each church after Ephesus gets worse, Jesus gives each church more promises than He gave to the church before it. The last church to get a promise is Laodicea. Laodicea is weaker than any church before it. To our surprise, Laodicea gets only one promise. But it is the biggest promise of all: to sit with Jesus on His throne (Revelation 3:21)!

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. When the churches in Revelation grow weaker, Jesus gives them more promises to help them. What does that show us about how God’s loving-favor works?`

`2. Jesus’ warning to the church in Laodicea is for Christians living in the end times. What does Jesus’ warning mean to us as Seventh-day Adventists? What must we do to change our lives?`