---
title:  Proof That Jesus Is God
date:   05/10/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
John 6:1–14; John 6:14, 15, 26–36; John 9:1–16; John 9:17–34; John 11:38–44.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Jesus said to her, ‘I am the One Who raises [wakes people up from] the dead and gives them life. Anyone who puts his trust in Me will live again, even if he dies. Anyone who lives and has put his trust in Me will never die. Do you believe this [Bible truth]?’ ” (John 11:25, 26, NLV).

The Bible tells us that Jesus is the everlasting Son of God. Jesus and the Father are both God. No one made Jesus. He didn’t get His life from anyone else. Jesus made everything (John 1:1–3). Jesus always was alive. So, there was never a time when Jesus didn’t live. When Jesus came to this earth, He became a human. But He never stopped being God. At special times, Jesus said certain things or did miracles that showed He was God.

This Bible truth about Jesus is important to John. John talks about some of Jesus’ miracles or words to help us understand that Jesus is God. Jesus also showed that His words were truth when He did mighty miracles.

This week, we will study three of Jesus’ biggest miracles. These miracles show that Jesus is God. In each story, some people don’t believe the miracle. Other people don’t understand the miracle’s meaning. Some people stopped following Jesus because of the miracle. Other people saw the mira­cles and wanted to kill Jesus. But some people believed that Jesus was the Savior that God promised.