---
title:  Jesus Feeds More Than 5,000 People
date:   06/10/2024
---

In John 6:10, John tells us that Jesus fed more than 5,000 people near the time of the Passover. The Passover was a special celebration when the Jews remembered how God saved them from slavery in Egypt. The Passover lamb was killed instead of the firstborn son from each Jewish family. This death showed the future death of Jesus for our sins. Jesus was punished for our sins on the cross. Jesus is our Passover lamb. Jesus died instead of us (1 Corinthians 5:7).

“Jesus accepted the guilt for our sins. Then the Father hid His face from Jesus. When the Father hid His face, Jesus died from a broken heart. His life was crushed out. Jesus offered Himself for our sins to save us.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 540, adapted.

`Read the story in John 6:1–14. What miracle does Jesus do in this story? In what ways do these verses show us that Jesus and Moses behave alike? Also, why should this miracle help the Jews in Jesus’ day remember the time when God fed the Israelites in the desert after He made them free from slavery in Egypt?`

In John 6:1–14, we see many things in this story about Jesus that help us remember Moses during the time of the Exodus. The Exodus was the time when God helped Israel escape from slavery in Egypt. The time of the Passover (John 6:4) celebrates Israel’s Exodus from Egypt. Durinig Passover, Jesus behaved the same as Moses did during the Exodus. (1) Jesus goes up on a mountain (John 6:3). (Moses also went up Sinai.) (2) Jesus tests Philip (John 6:5, 6). (The Israelites were tested in the desert.) (3) Jesus feeds more than 5,000 people with five loaves of bread. (This miracle helps the Jews remember the miracle with the manna in the desert.) Jesus’ followers collect the leftover food (John 6:12). (In the same way, the Israelites collected the manna in the desert.) Jesus’ followers collect 12 baskets of leftovers, the same number as the 12 family groups of Israel. The Jewish people say that Jesus is the special messenger (John 6:14) that Moses promised would come (Deuteronomy 18:15). All these things help the Jews understand that Jesus is the new Moses. Jesus came to make His people free.

John shows Jesus doing miracles that have special meaning for the Jews. Jesus’ miracles show His people who He is. His miracles show the people that He is God.