---
title:  Jesus Is The One Who Speaks for God
date:   07/10/2024
---

`Read about the miracle in John 6:14, 15, 26–36. What did the people think about this miracle? How did Jesus use this miracle to try to teach the people about who He was?`

The Jews expected a Savior to come to earth and save them from the Kingdom of Rome. Two hard things a general must do in war is feed his troops and care for the soldiers who were hurt or dead. Jesus did many miracles that showed He could feed an army and take care of anyone who was hurt or dead.

But Jesus didn’t come to feed an army or take care of hurt or dead soldiers. When Jesus fed 5,000 men, He showed that He was the same as the Bread that gives life. The miracle showed that God Himself came down from heaven. Jesus said, “ ‘I am the bread that gives life. He who comes to me will never be hungry’ ” (John 6:35, ICB).

Do you see how this announcement about the bread starts with the words “I am”? This announcement is the first of seven announcements Jesus says about Himself in the Book of John that start with the words “I am.” Each of the seven “I am” announcements connects with a special word picture that shows us who Jesus is. Let’s look more closely at the list of seven “I am” announcements. (1) Jesus says, “ ‘I am the bread that gives life’ ” (John 6:35, ICB). (2) Jesus announces, “ ‘I am the light of the world [all the people on earth]’ ” (John 8:12, ICB). (3) Jesus also says, “ ‘I am the gate’ ” (John 10:7, 9, ERV) or “the door” (ICB). (4) Jesus says, “ ‘I am the ‘Good Shepherd’ ” (John 10:11, 14, NLV). (5) Jesus says, “ ‘I am the One Who raises [wakes up] the dead and gives them life’ ” (John 11:25, NLV). (6) Jesus says, “ ‘I am the Way and the Truth and the Life’ ” (John 14:6, NLV). (7) Finally, Jesus says, “ ‘I am the true [real] Vine’ ” (John 15:1, NLV). Each of these seven word pictures helps us understand an important Bible truth about Jesus. Also, the “I am” word pictures help us remember Exodus 3. In Exodus 3, God shows Himself to Moses as the Mighty One, who is the I AM (compare with John 8:58). Jesus is the I AM.

Sad to say, the people in Jesus’ day didn’t understand this important Bible truth. The people looked for a Savior who would give them blessings and riches in this life. They didn’t want the Bible truth that leads to everlasting life. So, we must be careful. Or we, too, can “fall” into this same “trap.”