---
title:  'Jesus Heals A Blind Man: Part 1'
date:   08/10/2024
---

`Read about the blind man in John 9:1–16. What did Jesus’ followers think caused this man to be blind? What did Jesus say to correct the false beliefs of His followers?`

Jesus’ followers believed that a person got sick because he sinned. If someone was born blind, then his parents must have sinned. Many Old Testament stories helped Jesus’ followers think that every time someone got sick, it was his fault (compare with Exodus 20:5; 2 Kings 5:15–27; 2 Kings 15:5; 2 Chronicles 26:16–21). But the story about Job should have helped Jesus’ followers to remember that people with faith suffer, too.

Jesus doesn’t say there is no connection between sin and suffering. But Jesus says that sometimes a person’s suffering doesn’t come from anything he did wrong. Sometimes a person suffers because God wants to use that experience to help save other people and honor His Name. The story about the blind man helps us remember the story in Genesis when God made the skies and the earth. In Genesis 2:7, God makes the first man from the dirt. In the same way, Jesus uses clay to heal the blind man’s eyes.

In the books of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, miracle stories have the same parts: (1) The writer tells us about the problem that needs to be fixed or healed. (2) The person who needs healing comes to Jesus. (3) Jesus heals the sick person. And (4) the sick person praises God for the healing. Often, other people who see the healing praise God, too.

In the story in John 9, John gives us all four parts of the miracle. Then John gives us something more: the miracle’s meaning. The meaning becomes the most important part of the story. The healed man and the spiritual leaders have a long conversation about what his healing means.

John doesn’t tell his readers until chapter 9, verse 14, that Jesus healed the blind man on the Sabbath. So, the Jewish leaders blame Jesus. The leaders say Jesus breaks the Sabbath. The Jewish leaders believe that Jesus wasn’t from God because He didn’t keep the Sabbath holy. But other people thought that no sinner could do the miracles that Jesus did. The man who was blind sees who Jesus really is. But the leaders do not want to “see” or understand because they cannot accept that Jesus is God.