---
title:  'Jesus Heals A Blind Man: Part 2'
date:   09/10/2024
---

`Read the rest of the story about the blind man in John 9:17–34. What questions did the Jewish leaders ask the blind man after Jesus healed him? How did the man answer?`

John 9:17–34 is the only part of John’s story where the people talk about Jesus, but He is not in the story. John’s story starts when Jesus’ followers ask about the blind man. The followers want to know if the man’s sin or his parents’ sin caused his suffering (John 9:2). In the same way, sin is the topic of conversation in this part of the story, too. The Jewish leaders think Jesus is a sinner because He healed on the Sabbath (John 9:16, 24). The Jewish leaders lie about the healed man. The leaders tell him, “ ‘You have been a bad man ever since you were born!’ ” (John 9:34, WE).

Do you see how everything in the story reverses? The man who was blind now starts to “see” more and more. He sees with his eyes and understands things with his mind that the Jewish leaders refuse to see or believe about Jesus. The Jewish leaders become less and less able to “see” the Bible truth about Jesus (John 9:16). So, they can’t understand where He came from (John 9:29).

John uses this story to tell us who Jesus is. John tells us that Jesus is “ ‘the Light of the world [all people]’ ” (John 9:5, NLV; compare with John 8:12). Jesus is a mystery, too. This story tries to answer some questions about this mystery. Who is Jesus? Where did He come from? What work did He plan to do on earth (John 9:12, 29; compare with John 1:14)? John also talks about Moses in this chapter (John 9:28, 29; compare with John 5:45, 46 and John 6:32). Finally, John talks about how the crowd feels about Jesus. Some people love sin more than Bible truth. Other people accept Jesus in faith (John 9:16–18, 35–41; compare with John 1:9–16; John 3:16–21; John 6:60–71).

The Jewish leaders’ hearts are too hard to understand Jesus. They should have been the first ones to accept Jesus as the Savior. But they reject all the powerful proof God sends them. They cannot learn the truth. Or maybe, they really don’t want to learn it. This story is a powerful warning about how our hearts can trick us into believing a lie.

`What important rule do we read about in 1 Corinthians 1:26–29? How can this rule help us today?`