---
title:  Lazarus Wakes Up From The Dead
date:   10/10/2024
---

John 11 is filled with sad news. Lazarus, who is Jesus’ dear friend, is very sick (John 11:3, 19, 31, 33). Lazarus’s sisters are sad because Jesus let Lazarus die (John 11:21, 32). The story also is sad because Jesus cries (John 11:35).

Jesus waited two days before starting His journey to Lazarus (John 11:6). Jesus said something that surprised His followers. He said that He was glad that He didn’t go to Lazarus sooner (John 11:14, 15). Did Jesus care about Lazarus? Of course, He cares! But Jesus knows that waiting will give Him a chance to show God’s power. Jesus wanted to honor His Father’s Name.

When Jesus arrived at Lazarus’ house, Lazarus was dead for four days (John 11:17–27). After four days, Lazarus’s body was already rotting. Martha tells Jesus when He arrives, “ ‘But, Lord, it has been four days since Lazarus died. There will be a bad smell’ ” (John 11:39, ERV). For sure, Jesus’ delay helped make the miracle of waking up Lazarus from the dead more powerful and amazing. Jesus was going to wake up a rotting dead body. What more proof did the Jews need that Jesus was God Himself?!

As God, Jesus was the One who made life. So, Jesus already had power over death. Jesus used the miracle of waking Lazarus up from the dead to teach the Jews an important Bible truth about Himself: “ ‘I am the one who will raise [wake] people up and give them life. The person who believes in me will live, even though he has died’ ” (John 11:25, WE).

`What did Jesus do to support His words in John 11:25, 26? Read John 11:38–44 for the answer.`

Jesus showed that He was the Light for all people (John 8:12; John 9:5) when He helped the blind man see (John 9:7). In the same way, when Jesus wakes up Lazarus from the dead (John 11:43, 44), He shows that He is the Resurrection (He has the power to wake up people from the dead) and the Life (John 11:25). This miracle, more than any other miracle, shows everyone that Jesus is the God who gives us life. This miracle supports John’s idea that Jesus is the Son of God. When we believe in Him, He will give us everlasting life (John 20:30, 31). Sad to say, the end of this story shows us something strange (John 11:45–54). Jesus shows He can wake the dead. So, how can the Jewish leaders think that they can stop Jesus if they kill Him?!