---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   11/10/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Crisis in Galilee,” pages 383–394; “ ‘Lazarus, Come Forth,’ ” pages 524–536; and “Priestly Plottings,” pages 537–542, in The Desire of Ages.

“The life of Jesus will give life to everyone on earth. This life is in Jesus’ words. With His words, Jesus healed disease and commanded demons to come out of people. With His words, Jesus commanded the sea to be quiet. With His words, Jesus woke up the dead. The people saw that Jesus spoke with power. He spoke the word of God in the same way that God used the special messengers in the Old Testament to talk to His people. The whole Bible shows us Jesus. The Savior wanted His followers to put their faith in the Bible. When Jesus left them and went back to heaven, His followers needed to trust in the Bible. They must live as Jesus lived. ‘Their lives depend on what God says.’ Matthew 4:4 [ERV].

“Food supports our bodies. In the same way, the Bible supports our spiritual lives. Every person must get life for himself from the Bible. We must eat for ourselves to get strength from our food. In the same way, we must read the Bible for ourselves. We must not accept what someone else tells us the Bible says. Each person must carefully study the Bible. We must ask God to send us the Holy Spirit to help us understand what it says.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 390, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`This week we looked at how Jesus fed more than 5,000 people. Jesus also healed a man born blind. Then Jesus woke up Lazarus from the dead. In each story, Jesus gave powerful proof that He was God. But these miracles, as wonderful as they were, caused the Jews to argue with each other. Some people believed in Jesus. Other people doubted Him. Why do you think that some people reject God, even when there is powerful proof to accept Him?`

`The stories this week show us that Jesus is the Son of God. Why is this Bible truth so important to our faith and belief in Jesus as the Savior?`