### Back to the Altar

It began during my junior year of high school, when I was around sixteen years old. At the time, my attitude left a lot to be desired. My parents decided I needed a change of scenery, so they sent me to Pine Forge Academy, a Seventh-day Adventist boarding school in a rural part of the state of Pennsylvania, USA. Pine Forge was about as far from the city as one could get. With five kids in Christian education, the financial sacrifice my parents were making to send me there was real. They sacrificed so that my siblings and I could be intercepted and transformed by God. That is exactly what happened to me.

My dad, a former pastor and conference administrator, gave me two books to take with me, along with my Bible: Mind, Character, and Personality—Ellen White’s magnificent two-volume compilation. As I read those books, something changed in my life. I read that “The mind gradually adapts itself to the subjects upon which it is allowed to dwell. It becomes assimilated to that which it is accustomed to love and reverence” (Ellen G. White, Mind, Character, and Personality, vol. 1 [1977], 331). I read how Bible study strengthens the mind and changes the character. When I read about the importance of daily devotional time with God, something clicked, and I decided to put God first, to build my worship altar.

The results of that decision were immediate and lasting. I graduated from high school near the top of my class, and my academic success continued in college. I was the president of my senior class. God also gave me something else I had been praying for: a beautiful, godly woman with whom to spend the rest of my life. I trace all these blessings back to my devotional altar time with God. There is nothing more important a young adult can do than build their altar with God.

Devotional life has remained a touchstone of my ministry through the years. When I became the editor of Insight Magazine, an Adventist journal for teens in North America, I saw firsthand the negative impact of media and technology on teens’ devotional lives. This issue is now a challenge for all of us, both young and old. Current research is clear: unhealthy use of digital and social media harms us emotionally, mentally, socially, and physically, to say nothing of its effect on our spirituality.

When the 2018 Global Church Member Survey reported that only 37 percent of Seventh-day Adventist families have daily worship and only 52 percent of our single people have any devotional life at all, I knew we had a problem. Could something be eating our time with God? Seventh-day Adventists are called to proclaim the last warning for a perishing world, the three angels’ messages of Revelation 14:6–12—a worship-centered message. How can people who are not worshiping daily deliver a worship-centric message? Can we proclaim what we do not practice?

In 2021, this reality led me to approach Elder Ted Wilson, president of the General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, and Dr. Willie and Elaine Oliver, directors of the Family Ministries Department, with a proposal titled “Back to the Altar.” All three instantly saw wisdom in encouraging daily morning and evening worship. Back to the Altar is a global appeal to all Seventh-day Adventists to rebuild their worship altars and seek God daily. It’s through daily communion with God that we’re transformed in His presence, empowered by His Spirit, and equipped to do His work. This is the heart of this quarter’s study. As we trace the “altar truth” in Scripture, I pray you will build your altar with God. It’s the best decision you will ever make.

_Dwain N. Esmond, PhD (cand.), is an ordained minister, writer, and editor. He currently serves as an associate director of the Ellen G. White Estate, Inc. and facilitator of the Back to the Altar worship initiative. Find out more about Back to the Altar at BacktotheAltar.org._