---
title:  "Loyalty to God: Worship in a War Zone"
date:  08/11/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Joshua 5:1–7; Joshua 5:10; Joshua 8:30, 31; Joshua 8:32–35; Joshua 18:1, 2.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘But put [make] God’s kingdom first [#1 in your life]. Do what he wants you to do. Then all those things will also be given to you’ ” (Matthew 6:33, NIrV).

This week, we will look at some stories about Israel in the Promised Land. In each of these stories, Israel promised to serve God again. Many of these stories happened when Israel was in danger. In one story, Joshua commanded all Israelite men to do a special religious act before they went to war. This act was a symbol of Israel’s loyalty to God. The Israelites did this religious act when they were in the land of the enemy (Joshua 5:1–9). In another story, the Israelites celebrated the Passover at a time when they were in danger (Joshua 5:10–12). The Passover was a celebration of the time when God helped Israel escape slavery in Egypt. Joshua also built an altar and worshiped the Lord while Israel was in a time of war (Joshua 8:30–35). Later, Joshua divided the land and gave it to the seven family groups in Israel who had no land (Joshua 18:1, 2). But Joshua set up the Lord’s holy tent first.

As we can see, Joshua made time for the Lord when he was busy or even in times of danger. Today, we often don’t make time for the Lord in our busy lives. We don’t remember to thank Him for everything He does for us. We forget to worship Him with our families each day. But deep in our hearts, we know that the time we spend with God and our loved ones is the best use of our limited time on earth.