---
title:  "Make God #1"
date:  09/11/2025
---

`Read the story in Joshua 5:1–7. Why did the Lord command Joshua to circumcise the Israelites at this time? To circumcise means to cut off the skin from the tip of the male sex part.`

The spies explored the land and gave Joshua an encouraging report. So, we’d expect the Israelites to fight right away. But Israel’s promise with God is more important than their winning the land.

Before the Israelites can fight for the land, they must make new again their relationship with the Owner of the land. The Owner is the Lord. Also, the Israelites are thankful to God for helping them cross the Jordan River. Our relationship with God should always come from our thankfulness for everything He does for us. We shouldn’t try to earn His blessing with our good behavior.

Israel was about to fight an important battle. So, we would expect the whole camp to be busy getting ready for war. And they were getting ready. But not in the way we would expect. They weren’t sharpening their swords or getting their horses ready. The men got circumcised. Most of the army was weak for at least three days while they healed.

The Israelites got circumcised because they wanted to celebrate their relationship with God. The people understood that the Lord was in charge of the war. God helped them win. He gave them success. That’s why Jesus said, “ ‘But put [make] God’s kingdom first [#1 in your life]. Do what he wants you to do. Then all those things will also be given to you’ ” (Matthew 6:33, NIrV). Most of the time, everyday life fills our days with so many important things. So, it’s easy for us to forget about Jesus. The most impor­tant thing we can do to remember Him is to make our relationship with Him new every day.

`Think about the times you didn’t spend time with God because you were so busy. Why is it so easy to do that? How can we fight against it?`