---
title:  Passover
date:  10/11/2025
---

`The Passover was a celebration of the time when God saved Israel from the destroying angel in Egypt. Why did Joshua decide to celebrate the Passover before He went to war? Read Joshua 5:10; Exodus 12:6; Leviticus 23:5; Numbers 28:16; and Deuteronomy 16:4, 6 for the answer.`

The Passover happens in the evening on the 14th day of the month. Joshua follows everything God says to do to get ready to celebrate it. The things that happen in the book of Joshua match those things that happened when Moses led Israel out of Egypt. Passover helps the Israelites remember the night of the 10th punishment (Exodus 12). During that punishment, the angel of the Lord killed all males in Egypt who were born first. But God didn’t kill the Israelites who put the lamb’s blood on the top and sides of their doors. Then the Lord helped His people escape from Egypt. Israel crossed the Red Sea and journeyed in the desert.

Compare the Israelites in the book of Exodus with the Israelites in the book of Joshua. In Joshua, the Israelites start in the desert. They cross the Jordan River. The Israelite males are circumcised. As we already saw, circumcised means to cut off the skin from the tip of the male sex parts. Then the Israelites celebrate the Passover. After the Passover, the Lord works a miracle. He beats the Canaanites, the same as He beat the Egyptians at the Red Sea. So, the Passover celebration in the book of Joshua is the beginning of a new time in Israel’s history.

The Passover lamb was a symbol. The lamb showed that God saved Israel from slavery. The lamb also was a symbol for the Lamb of God, Jesus (John 1:29, 36; 1 Corinthians 5:7; 1 Peter 1:18, 19). Jesus saved us from being slaves to sin. At the Lord’s Supper, Jesus made the Passover meal a celebration of His death (Matthew 26:26–29; 1 Corinthians 11:23–26).

Both Passover and the Lord’s Supper celebrate ­another Bible truth: in the future, God will save His people and lead them to heaven. John talks about the special group of 144,000 saved people. The 144,000 walk on the sea of glass in front of God’s throne (Revelation 4:6; Revelation 7:9, 10). In the same way, the Israelites walked on dry land across the Red Sea and the Jordan River. In heaven, we will celebrate the Lord’s Supper during the marriage feast of the Lamb (Matthew 26:29; Revelation 19:9).