---
title:  "Altars: Symbols Of A New Relationship"
date:  11/11/2025
---

`What was Joshua’s reason for building an altar to the Lord? Read Joshua 8:30, 31; compare with Deuteronomy 11:26–30; and Deuteronomy 27:2–10.`

God told Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to build altars in the land He promised them. The altars showed that the land belonged to them. Now, the Israelites built an altar to show that God kept His promise to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. God gave their future children the land of Canaan. The Israelites built the altar, just as Moses told them to do (Deuteronomy 11:26–30; Deuteronomy 27:2–10).

Joshua 8:30–35 connects the story about war with worship. In these verses, the Israelites make their relationship with God new again. This idea is one of the most important topics in the book of Joshua. Obedience was part of the things the Israelites did to make their relationship with God new again. God commanded Joshua to lead Israel to live in obedience (Joshua 1:7). The Israelites’ obedience was also part of their promise with God. We see this idea at the end of the book (Joshua 24).

Israel’s wars to win the Promised Land are part of God’s plan for Israel. But the people’s loyalty to God’s law is even more important than the wars they must fight. God’s plan for Israel includes the whole human family. God’s plan is to save everyone who will accept Him. Will we obey God’s law? Everyone must answer this question. Our everlasting life depends on our answer.

Joshua writes a copy of the law on big stones that are ­painted white. These stones are different from the stones for the altar (compare with Deuteronomy 27:2–8). Many Bible thinkers believe Joshua wrote the Ten Commandments on the big white stones. These stones helped the Israelites remember their agreement with God and to obey and serve Him.

Joshua is a symbol of Jesus. Jesus came to lead people back to God. To do this work, Jesus fought for us against evil powers and won. Jesus kept God’s promise. “God has made a great many promises. They are all ‘Yes’ because of what Christ [Jesus] has done. So through [because of] Christ we say ‘Amen.’ We want God to receive glory” (2 Corinthians 1:20, NIrV).

`What are things that we can do, right now, to make our relationship with God new again?`