---
title:  Written On Stones
date:  12/11/2025
---

`Read Joshua 8:32–35. What is happening in these verses? What does it mean for us today?`

The Bible talks about the mountain of Ebal only in the book of Deuteronomy (Deuteronomy 11:29; Deuteronomy 27:4, 13) and in the book of Joshua (Joshua 8:30, 33). The Israelites said the blessings and curses on the mountains of Ebal and Gerizim. The mountain of Ebal was the mountain where the Israelites said the curses (Deuteronomy 11:29; Deuteronomy 27:4, 13). The Israelites stood on either side of the ark in front of the priests or spiritual leaders (Joshua 8:33). One group of Israelites stood in front of Ebal. The other group stood in front of Gerizim. The Israelites brought offerings that showed Jesus’ future work. Jesus accepted all the curses in God’s promise. Because Jesus did that, everyone who believes in Him can enjoy its blessings (Galatians 3:13; 2 Corinthians 5:21).

`Why did Joshua need to write a copy of God’s promise on a monument that everyone could see? Read Deuteronomy 4:31; Deuteronomy 6:12; Deuteronomy 8:11, 14; 2 Kings 17:38; and Psalm 78:7 for the answer.`

We humans often forget things. The Lord’s Supper gives us a special time to remember everything the Lord does for us. Also, the Lord’s Supper is a time to make new again our relationship with the Lord. As a church, we can use this time to make our relationship with the Lord strong.

`How often do you forget about the Lord and try to do things in your own strength and power? Why is trying to do things in our own strength so easy to do?`