---
title:  Wanting To Be With Jesus
date:  13/11/2025
---

`Read the story in Joshua 18:1, 2. Joshua started to give land to the Israelites. In the middle of his work, Joshua stopped to do something else. What did he stop to do?`

In Joshua 18, the Israelites come together at Shiloh. Joshua divides the Promised Land and gives it to the family groups of Israel who don’t have land.

In the middle of this work, Joshua stops to set up God’s holy tent. The worship of God is even more important than dividing the land!

The holy tent was proof of God’s promise to live with His people (Exodus 25:8; Leviticus 26:11, 12). The book of Joshua teaches the idea that Israel won the land because God lived with His people. They had success because God lived with them. God will continue to live among His people and bless them. God will use Israel to bless everyone on earth (Genesis 12:3). The holy tent, and later God’s temple, were meant to help the people remember God and obey Him.

`Read Hebrews 6:19, 20; Hebrews 9:11, 12; and Hebrews 10:19–23. We don’t have God living in His holy tent with us today. But what can we, as Christians, learn from Joshua’s wish to make God #1 in his life and in Israel’s?`

The ark of God’s promise helps us remember the Most Holy Place in heaven. The ark was the only piece of furniture in the Most Holy Room of the holy tent. The ark was also part of Israel’s crossing. The ark was there when Israel won the Promised Land too. Joshua sets up God’s holy tent in the land so that Israelites will know that to worship God is the most important part of their lives. The holy tent was God’s headquarters on earth.

Today, as Christians, we live in the time when God will judge all people. We must keep our eyes on Jesus and His work for us in the Most Holy Room in heaven. As we continue to fight against the problems of our modern life, the Lord will give us strength to win. So, we must depend on Jesus and His work for us at the Cross. We must trust in the work He does now for us in heaven. Then we can hope in the time when God will live with His people again. Then He will live with us forever. (Compare with Revelation 21:3.)