---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  14/11/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Blessings and the Curses,” pages 499–503, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Moses gave the command for the Israelites to build a monument of big stones on the mountain of Ebal. The stones were covered with white paint. Then the law was written on the stones. This law included the Ten Commandments and the laws God gave to Moses that he wrote in a book. Next to this monument, the Israelites built an altar of stone. The stones weren’t cut or shaped with tools. The Israelites offered gifts to the Lord on this altar. The altar was built on the mountain of Ebal. Ebal was the mountain where the Israelites said the curses that Moses wrote in a book. Israel sinned against God’s law. Because of their sin, God was fair when He became angry with them. God should have destroyed Israel right away for their sin. But Jesus became their offering to help God accept them. The offering on the altar was a symbol for Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 500, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`What does it mean to you to make God’s kingdom #1 in your life? How does this important rule change your daily life?`

`Look at your answer to Wednesday’s final question. How easily do you forget the Lord in everyday life? In class, talk about why we forget God and why we have trouble remembering Him. What are some ways to help us remember?`

`As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe that Jesus is working for us in heaven in these end times. How can this belief give us hope and strength? Jesus is up there asking God to help us right now (Hebrew 7:25)! How should this amazing Bible truth help us understand why His work in heaven is really good news for us?`