---
title:  The Good News From John on Patmos
date:   29/12/2018
---

READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON: Revelation 1:1, 2; John 14:1–3; Deuteronomy 29:29; Daniel 7:1–3; Revelation 1:4, 5.

><p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “Blessed is the one who reads out loud [shares with other people] the words of this prophecy [special message]. Blessed are those [people] who hear it and think everything it says is important.The time when these things will come true is near” (Revelation 1:3, NIrV).

**GOD GAVE SPECIAL MESSAGES** to His follower John more than 1,900 years ago.At the time, John lived on Patmos. Patmos is a small, rocky island in the Aegean Sea (Revelation 1:9). The High King of Rome sent John to live on Patmos to punish him because John refused to stop preaching about Jesus. There on Patmos, John wrote a book about the messages or visions that God gave him. John’s book is named Revelation.

Revelation 1:3 tells us that God wanted His people to read the book of Revelation to the church. God will bless in a spe- cial way everyone who shares with other people the book of Revelation. God also promises to bless the people who listen to the messages and obey them (Revelation 22:7).

The messages in the book of Revelation show us God’s love. They show us Jesus and His work in heaven as our High Priest, or Holy Leader, and King. They also show us that God wants us to share the Good News with other people.

Special messages about the future also are named prophecies. God gave us the prophecies in Revelation to guide our lives today. They also give us hope for the future while we wait for Jesus to come back.