---
title:  The Name Of The Book 
date:   30/12/2018
---

_The word written as “Revelation” comes from a Greek word that means “to remove the cover from something so that it can be seen.”_

`Revelation 1:1, 2 talk about the meaning of the name “Revelation.” What does the name “Revelation” mean? How does this name show us who the book of Revelation is about?`

Revelation 1:1 says that the name of the last book of the Bible is “The Revelation of Jesus Christ.” What does that name mean? The word written as “Revelation” comes from the Greek word “apokalypsis [ä-po-kä’-lü-psēs].” “Apokalypsis” means “to show clearly” or “to remove the cover from something so that it can be seen.” The book of Revelation shows Jesus to us. The book of Revelation is both from Jesus and about Jesus. That means the book of Revelation came from Jesus (Revelation 22:16). But at the same time, Jesus is the center of all Revelation’s messages. The book of Revelation is a picture about Jesus that He gave to His people to show them that He loves them.

The book of Revelation starts with Jesus (Revelation 1:5–8) and ends with Him (Revelation 22:12–16). “Let us learn from the books of Daniel and Revelation. But whatever parts of those books we teach, let us show everyone that Jesus is the center of our hope.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [spe- cial messages] to Ministers [pastors] and Gospel [about the Good News] Workers, page 118, adapted.

The Jesus in the book of Revelation is the same Jesus in the four Gospels. The Gospels are the first four books of the New Testament: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Jesus’ story starts in the Gospels. But it does not stop there. The Gospels tell us only about the work Jesus did to save humans while He lived on earth. The book of Revelation continues Jesus’ story after He goes back to heaven. The book of Revelation shows us different parts of Jesus’ work to save humans. It starts with Jesus’ waking up from the dead and going back to heaven.

The book of Revelation tells us what Jesus does for us in heaven right now. Without the book of Revelation, we cannot fully understand the things that Jesus does for us in heaven. Thanks to the books of Revelation and Hebrews, Jesus’ work for us right now in heaven is not a mystery.

`Read the promise in John 14:1–3. How does this promise help us understand better the things that Jesus does for us in heaven right now? How does this promise give us hope?`