---
title:  The Reason Why God Gave Us The Book Of Revelation
date:   31/12/2018
---

_God wants us to know about what will happen in the future so that we understand how much we need Him._

Revelation 1:1 tells us the reason that God told John to write the book of Revelation. God wanted to show His people the future. Some of the future things that John sees in his vision start to happen right after John writes down the vision in the book of Revelation. Anyone who reads the book of Revelation will see that it is mostly about the things that John says will happen in the future. Some of these things already happened in the past.

What is the most important reason that God gives us prophecies? You will remember that prophecies are spe- cial messages from God to show us the things that will happen in the future. God gives us prophecies to show us that He is in control. The special messages about the future in Revelation show us that Jesus was with His people during everything that happened in the past. He also will continue to be with them during all the trouble that the book of Revelation shows will happen in the future.

The prophecies, or special messages about the future, in the book of Revelation help us in two important ways: (1) these messages teach us how to live today. (2) They help get us ready for what will happen in the future.

`Deuteronomy 29:29 tells us why God does not show us everything about the future. What reason does this verse say to help explain why God does not tell us everything? Also, this verse tells us why God shows us things about the future. Why does God do that? (Read also Revelation 22:7).`

The special messages about the end time in the book of Revelation do not tell us everything that will happen in the future. God shows us only the parts of the future that we need to know. God wants us to know these things that will happen so that we will understand how much we need Him and trust Him even in hard times.

`In John 14:29, we learn about an important rule. How does this rule help us understand why God gave us His special messages that warn us about what will happen?`