---
title:  Word Pictures In The Book Of Revelation 
date:   01/01/2019
---

_Most of the word pictures in the book of Revelation show us real happenings that will come true in the future._

`Read about the visions that God gave to John in Revelation 13:1, to Daniel in Daniel 7:1–3, and to Ezekiel in Ezekiel 1:1–14. What is the same in all of the visions?`

Revelation 1:1 says: “This is the revelation [special truths and secrets that God shows us] of [from and about] Jesus Christ. God gave this revelation to Jesus, to show his ser- vants what must soon happen. Jesus sent his angel to show it to his servant John” (ICB). Do you see the word written as “show”? That word is important. “Show” comes from the Greek word “sēmainō [sa- -m-i -no- ].” “Sēmainō” is written as “show” in Revelation 1:1. This Greek word means “to use word pictures or signs to explain the meaning of something.” The word “sēmainō” is used in the Septuagint. The Septuagint is the Greek copy of the Old Testament. In the Septuagint, Daniel explains to King Nebuchadnezzar the meaning of the statue that the king saw in a dream. The statue was made of gold, silver, brass, iron and clay. God uses the statue to show (“sēmainō”) the king “what will happen in the future” (Daniel 2:45, NLV). When John writes in the book of Revelation the same word “s-emain-o” that Daniel uses, John tells us that the things God shows him are signs and word pictures for things that will happen in the future.

We see that Daniel and John use “sēmainō” to explain things that they see in their visions. So, when John uses this Greek word in Revelation 1:1, we know that most of the word pictures in the book of Revelation are signs and not real things. Yes, these word pictures show us real happenings that will come true in the future. But we also understand that the word pictures are not real things. Here is a rule to remember when you read the book of Revelation. When you see a word picture, you should understand it as a sign of something else. But what if you read about a person, place, or thing in Revelation that clearly is not a sign? When it is clear that a person, place, or thing is not a sign, you may trust that it is a real thing and does not mean something else.

This rule will help us understand the special messages in the book of Revelation. Most of the word pictures in the book of Revelation come from word pictures in the Old Testament. So, we must let the word pictures in the Old Testament help us understand what the word pictures mean in the book of Revelation.