---
title:  The Father, Son, And Holy Spirit
date:   02/01/2019
---

_Because Jesus loves us, He made us free from our sins by His blood._

`Look at the greetings in Revelation 1:4, 5 and Romans 1:7. What is the same about both greetings? Who says the greeting in each of these books?`

Both verses give a greeting that many people at that time used when they wrote letters: “May you have loving-favor and peace from God” (Revelation 1:4, NLV). This greet- ing is really two separate greetings from the Greek and Hebrew languages. Both John and Paul combine the Greek greeting “charis [khä’-re- s],” which means “loving-favor,” and the Hebrew greeting “shalowm [shä·lo- m’],” which means “peace.” We see in John’s letters to the church, and in Paul’s letters, too, that the Givers of “loving-favor” and “peace” are the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

John tells us that God the Father is the One “ ‘who is, and who was, and who will come’ ” (Revelation 1:8, NIrV). This picture of God helps us remember His name Yahweh, which means, “ ‘I AM WHO I AM,’ ” (Exodus 3:14, NLV). The name Yahweh shows us that God was not made by anyone. He has always been alive. He always will be alive.

John uses the word picture of “the seven spirits . . . in front of God’s throne” (Revelation 1:4, NIrV) to show us the Holy Spirit. Seven is a number sign that Bible writers use to show readers that something is full or perfect. So, “the seven spirits” are a word picture that shows us that the Holy Spirit is at work fully in all seven churches. He never stops helping God’s people do their work.

In Revelation 1:5, John tells us about Jesus in three spe- cial ways. Each one of these facts about Jesus shows us a different part of His work for us: His death on the cross, His waking up from the dead, and His work for us in heaven. Then John tells us that Jesus died for us on the cross because He “loves us!” (Revelation 1:5, 6, NIrV).

The words written as Jesus “loves us!” have a special meaning in Greek. The Greek words show us that Jesus’ love is so big that He loves all people who lived before this time, who live now, and who will be born in the future. Because Jesus loves us, He made us free from sin by His blood. The Greek language shows us that Jesus’ death was a perfect act: His death freed us fully from our sins.

`What does it mean that Jesus freed us from sin to serve His Father? How should that change how we live?`