---
title:  The Most Important Idea In The Book Of Revelation
date:   03/01/2019
---

_John uses the two words “yes” and “amen” to show us that we can trust that Jesus will come back._

John writes his introduction to the book of Revelation in Revelation 1:1–8. At the end of his introduction, John shows us the most important idea in the whole book: Jesus’ Second Coming. Jesus will come in power and glory. Jesus says this promise three more times at the end of John’s book (Revelation 22:7, 12, 20).

`When John wrote Revelation 1:7, 8, he used words from other books of the Bible: Daniel 7:13, 14; Zechariah 12:10; and Matthew 24:30. What do these verses tell us about why we can trust that the Second Coming will happen?`

In the book of Revelation, John shows us that the Second Coming will cause this earth’s history to end. God’s ever- lasting kingdom also will start at the Second Coming. The Second Coming will free God’s people from all evil, deep sorrow, pain, and death.

Revelation 1:7 and the New Testament teach us that Jesus’ Second Coming will be real. He will come in Person. He will come with royal power and glory. Every human will see Jesus’ coming. Even the men “who stabbed him” (Revelation 1:7, ICB). These words show us that God will wake up a spe- cial group of people from the dead right before the Second Coming. This group includes the men who killed Jesus on the cross. They will wake up to see Jesus come back. At that time, Jesus will free His people. But He will judge the ones who turned away from His love.

John uses two words to show us that we can trust that Jesus will come back. “Yes, this will happen! Amen” (Revelation 1:7, ERV; emphasis supplied). The word written as “yes” comes from the Greek word “nai [n-i’].” “Amen” is a Hebrew word that we use to show we agree that something is true. These two words together, “yes” and “amen,” show us we can trust that Jesus will come back. John also uses these two words at the end of his book to show us that we can trust in Jesus’ promise to come back again (Revelation 22:20).

`A promise is only as good and strong as the person who makes it. God gave us the promise that Jesus will come back. God never broke a promise that He made. How does that fact help you trust that Jesus will come back exactly as God promised?`