---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   04/01/2019
---

_“People must open their hearts to the truth. Then God will help them to understand the teachings in the book of Revelation.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], pages 584, 585, adapted._

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**: Read Ellen G. White, “The Study of the Books of Daniel and the Revelation,” pages 112–119, in Testimonies [messages] to Ministers [pastors] and Gospel [about the Good News] Workers.

“God gave His people the messages in the book of Revelation to guide and comfort them from the day of the first church until the end time. . . . A revelation is something that someone tells or shows to people. The Lord Jesus Himself showed to His servant John the secrets that we read about in the book of Revelation. Jesus wants everyone to have a chance to study these truths. They were not only for the people living at the same time as John. God also gave those truths to the people living in the last days of this earth’s his- tory. Some of the happenings in the book of Revelation show us the past. But some things in the book show us what is happening now. Some of the happenings help us to see how the big war between the powers of darkness and Jesus, the Prince of heaven, will end in the future. Other happenings in the book of Revelation show us that God’s people will win the victory over sin. We also see their joy in the new earth.

“Many people who study the book of Revelation cannot explain the meaning of every word picture and sign. But they should not stop studying the book of Revelation. Remember that the same God who showed John these secrets also will give understanding to the person who tries very hard to know the truth. People must open their hearts to the truth. Then God will help them understand the teachings in the book of Revelation. God will give them the same thing that He promised to the people ‘who hear this message and do what is written in it’ [Revelation 1:2, ERV].”—Ellen G. White, _The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers]_, pages 583–585, adapted.

DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`1. What do other Christians think about the messages in the book of Revelation? Why are so many Christians afraid of these messages?`

`2. Think about all the people in the last 20 years who said that some things will happen in the future. But then these things never happened. How do you think the people who believed in these messages felt when the messages did not come true? As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe in the special messages about the future in the Bible. So, what is the best way to teach these truths to other people?`