---
title:  A Prisoner Of War In A Foreign Land
date:   17/12/2023
---

Esther was a prisoner of war. Living in a foreign country isn’t easy. We may have a hard time understanding the experience of Esther and other Jews living in a foreign land, first under the Babylonians and then under the Persians.

None of us lives in an Adventist country where our religious beliefs are the same as the laws of our land. Before the Jewish people were taken to Babylon, they lived in their own country. So, their religious beliefs and the laws of the land were the same. Keeping the Sabbath was part of their religious law and part of the laws of their land. So, living in Israel should have made it easy for Jews to honor God, right?

The Bible shows us that laws are not enough to make people holy. Our faith and loyalty to God come from our heart. Laws can’t force our obedience. We must want to obey God. If we don’t want to, sin will control our lives.

“ ‘These people worship me only with their words. They honor me by [with] what they say. But their hearts are far away from me. Their worship doesn’t mean anything to me. They teach nothing but human rules that they have been taught’ ” (Isaiah 29:13, NIrV).

Isaiah 29:13 shows a picture of false worship. Compare this picture with Bible stories of people who obeyed God with their whole hearts. Many of these men and women showed faith in God during hard times, when having faith was hard. Their stories show us that God’s loyal followers will obey Him in the worst of times.

`God’s people often can have a hard time living in foreign lands. Read the stories in Daniel 1:1–12; Daniel 3:1–12; and Daniel 6:1–9. What are some of the hard times that God’s people have in these stories?`

We all live in places where the laws of the land or the lifestyle around us can make it hard, at times, to share Jesus. The stories in Daniel show us that God’s people can stay loyal to Him when times are hard. The stories in Daniel have a happy ending. Not all stories end in a happy way. But we must obey God anyway.

`What are some of the things that make it hard for you to share your faith? How do you solve these problems?`