---
title:  In A Foreign Palace
date:   18/12/2023
---

After the Kingdom of Babylon ended and the Kingdom of Media-Persia started, many Jews went back to their country. But not everyone went home. Some Jews stayed in Persia.

This bit of history helps us understand the story of Esther better. The Bible tells us the time and place where Esther’s story happens. “In those days King Ahasuerus sat on the king’s throne in the city of Susa” (Esther 1:2, NLV). So, we understand from this verse that Esther’s story happens during the Persian Empire under King Ahasuerus. (Another name for Ahasuerus is Xerxes.)

In chapter 1, Queen Vashti loses the king’s favor. So, the king removes Vashti from being queen. Then the king looks for another queen to replace Vashti. That’s when Esther and her uncle, Mordecai, come into the story.

`Read Esther 2:1–9. What do these verses teach us about Mordecai and Esther?`

As far as we can tell, Mordecai works for the king. As part of his job, Mordecai sits at the gate of the king’s palace. So, he lived in the city of Shushan (also named Susa) with his adopted daughter, Esther. Esther was really Mordecai’s cousin. (But Mordecai adopted Esther as his daughter.) So, Mordecai and Esther were part of Persian culture or the way of life around them. Soon, the king commanded his leaders to send the most beautiful young women in Persia to Susa so that one of them could become his new queen (Esther 2:2–4). Then the Bible tells us, “When the king’s command had been heard [announced], many young women were brought to the capital city of Susa. They [the young women] were put under the care of Hegai. Esther was one of these women. She [Esther] was taken to the king’s palace and put into Hegai’s care. Hegai was in charge of the king’s women” (Esther 2:8, ERV).

`Read Esther 2:10, 20. What happens in these verses? Why does Mordecai give Esther this command?`

The verse doesn’t say why, but the answer isn’t hard to guess. Esther and Mordecai were foreigners in a land that often didn’t like strangers. As we will see, Esther and Mordecai were wise to keep silent about their family and people.