---
title:  'Mordecai: A Loyal Witness For God'
date:   19/12/2023
---

Mordecai and Esther lived in a foreign land. As Jews, their ways and beliefs were different from the Persians. Sooner or later, Mordecai and Esther were going to have trouble in Persia if they wanted to stay loyal to God.

`Read Esther 3:1–15. What happened in these verses? Why did it happen?`

In Esther 3, we learn that King Xerxes honored Haman. Everyone was told they must bow down to Haman. The Bible tells us: “But Mordecai did not bow down or give him honor” (Esther 3:2, NLV). The Bible doesn’t give the reason that Mordecai refused to bow down to Haman. But we know why. Mordecai is loyal to God. Also, Mordecai, as a Jew, is not willing to bow down to an Amalekite. The Amalekites were the children of Agag and the enemies of God’s people since the time that God led His people out of Egypt (Deuteronomy 25:19). How can a loyal Jew bow down to an Amalekite? How can a loyal Jew worship anyone except God?

“Then the king’s leaders at the gate asked Mordecai, ‘Why don’t you obey the king’s command to bow down to Haman?’ ” (Esther 3:3, ERV). We learn the answer to this question in the next verse: “Mordecai had told them that he was a Jew” (Esther 3:4, ERV). For sure, Mordecai explained to the king’s leaders that he was a worshiper of the God who made the skies and earth. So, Mordecai couldn’t worship a fallen human. No doubt Mordecai shared his faith with these men. Sad to say, Mordecai’s faith put him in danger.

“Daniel, his three friends, and Mordecai were the same as bright lights. They shined God’s truth in the palaces of Babylon.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, May 13, 1884, adapted.

Haman became angry when Mordecai refused to honor him. “Then Haman said to King Ahasuerus [Xerxes], ‘There is a certain [special group of] people spread out [who live] among the people in all the parts of your nation [kingdom] whose laws are different from those [laws] of all other people, and they do not obey the king’s laws. So it is not good for the king to let them stay’ ” (Esther 3:8, NLV).

`Has God given you a test of faith the same as He gave Mordecai? How do we “pass” these tests of faith?`