---
title:  For A Time The Same As This Time
date:   20/12/2023
---

`Read Esther 4:1–14. Why was it important at this time for Esther to remember that she was Jewish?`

Mordecai contacted Esther for help. Esther had been married to Ahasuerus for several years. But a Persian law said that no one may come to the king’s throne without an invitation from the king. The king could kill anyone who refused to obey this rule. Esther knew the risk of going to the throne room without an invitation. She went anyway.

Mordecai wanted to fill Esther’s heart with faith and courage to help her people. Mordecai said to Esther, “ ‘You live in the king’s palace. But don’t think that just because you are there you will be the only Jew who will escape. What if you don’t say anything at this time? Then help for the Jews will come from another place. But you and your family will die. Who knows? It’s possible that you became queen for a time just like [the same as] this [time]’ ” (Esther 4:13, 14, NIrV).

Mordecai asks Esther to remember her love for her people. No one knew Esther was Jewish except Mordecai. When Esther made the decision to help her people, she put her whole heart into helping them. She was not afraid to die for her people if she needed to.

Esther’s faith in God was strong. She knew that without God’s help she would fail. “Then Esther sent this answer to Mordecai: ‘Mordecai, go and get all the Jews in Susa together, and fast [don’t eat any food or drink any water] for me. Don’t eat or drink for three days and nights. I and my women servants will fast too. After we fast, I will go to the king. I know it is against the law to go to the king if he didn’t call [invite] me, but I will do it anyway. If I die, I die’ ” (Esther 4:15, 16, ERV). Mordecai sent this information to the whole Jewish community in Shushan (Susa). The people fasted and prayed. “On the third day, Esther put on her special robes. Then she stood in the inside area of the king’s palace, in front of the king’s hall. The king was sitting on his throne in the hall, facing the place where people enter the throne room. When the king saw Queen Esther standing in the court [hall], he was very pleased. He held out to her the gold scepter [stick] that was in his hand. So Esther went into the room and went near the king. Then she touched the end of the king’s gold scepter” (Esther 5:1, 2, ERV).