---
title:  God Saves His People
date:   21/12/2023
---

God’s name is not written in the book of Esther. Esther is the only book in the Bible where God’s name isn’t included. God’s name may not be used in the book, but the Jews in Esther’s time saw that God saved them. This idea may explain why God chose to include the story of Esther in the Bible.

Can we see God working behind the scenes in our daily lives? God can work in many ways in our lives. He can work in nature and in the things that happen every day. So, we must pay careful attention so that we don’t miss His working in our lives!

`Read Esther 9:1–12. What did Esther do? What happened because of Esther’s actions?`

God works a miracle to save His people in an interesting way. The law to destroy the Jews isn’t changed. But the king writes a new law that permits the Jews to protect their own lives.

Also, look at what happened in Esther 9 and how God used these things to save His people. The Persians saw that God worked to save the Jews, too.

So, what happened in the story of Esther when God helped His people?

“Many people from other nations [people groups] announced that they had become Jews” (Esther 8:17, NIrV). This story shows us how the Lord used the things that happened to teach non-Jews about Himself.

The Jewish leaders saw how God worked a miracle to help His people. The Jews announced a special holiday named Purim to celebrate how God saved them from being destroyed. Today, Jews still celebrate Purim as a time of thanksgiving to God for saving them.

`Task #1: Pray that God will give you the courage to share something God did for you with someone on your prayer list.`

`Task #2: Make a daily record of special little things or big things God does for you. Read your record and pray that God will help you remember these things at the right time so you can share them with someone.`