---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   22/12/2023
---

“When trouble comes, every family, school, parent, teacher, and child who knows the Good News about Jesus will need to answer the question that Mordecai asked Esther: ‘Who knows? It’s possible that you became queen for a time just like [the same as] this [time].’ Esther 4:13, 14, [NIrV].”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 263, adapted.

“In Bible times, the Lord worked in a wonderful way in the lives of holy women. These women worked with men that God chose to do His work. Together, these men and women honored God. God used women to win many important fights. God used women to save the lives of many people during hard times. God used Queen Esther to save His people from death. At a time when the Jews thought no one could save them, Esther and her women servants prayed. They ate no food and drank no water during this time. Their efforts helped save the Jewish people. . . .

“Study God’s work in the lives of women in the Old Testament. This study will teach you lessons that will help you solve the problems in your work for God today. We may not stand in front of kings as Esther did. But God can use women who give their lives fully to Him. These women have an important part in God’s work. Many women have been doing this work and are ready to do it now.”—Ellen G. White, Daughters of God, pages 45, 46, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read Esther’s famous words to Mordecai: “ ‘If I die, I die’ ” (Esther 4:16, ERV). These words have filled people’s hearts with courage and hope during hard times. Read Revelation 13, with Esther’s words in mind. How do Esther’s words show us the suffering of and courage of God’s people during the end times?`

`Mordecai told Esther not to let anyone know she was a Jew when she became the queen. Can you think of times when it may be a good idea not to let anyone know you are a Christian? Or should we not do that? If no, why do you feel that way? Explain.`

`The Jews prayed and fasted for Esther’s success. As we saw already, “to fast” means to eat no food and drink no water for a short time. What lessons can we learn from Esther’s story about how important prayer and fasting is to our own success in God’s work?`