---
title:  Working For God In Faraway Places
date:   10/12/2023
---

We read that “Jesus left Galilee and went to the area of Tyre and Sidon” (Matthew 15:21, NIrV). Why did Jesus take His followers from Galilee to these lands where people worshiped false gods? Jesus had important lessons He wanted to teach His followers. But He couldn’t teach His followers these lessons in Galilee. So, Jesus took His followers on a field trip to foreign lands where they could learn. Jesus wanted to teach His followers how to help Him save people in cities and faraway lands.

`Read Judges 3:1–6; 1 Kings 5:1–12; and 1 Kings 11:1–6. How do these verses help us understand a bit about the history of Tyre and Sidon?`

From Judges 3:1–6, we see that God gave His people experiences with Tyre and Sidon. For Israel, these experiences were the same as taking a test of faith. God’s people failed the test: “The Israelites began to marry the daughters of those people. And the Israelites allowed their daughters to marry the sons of those people. Israel served the gods of those people” (Judges 3:6, ICB). So, right from the start, the people from the lands around Israel caused Israel to sin.

In 1 Kings 5:1–11, we see that the Sidonians and the Hebrews were trading partners. For sure, this partnership was good business for both countries. At the same time, the partnership weakened Israel’s relationship with God.

1 Kings 11:1–6 shows us that Israel’s business partnership with Sidon caused much evil: Solomon married a Sidonian princess, who led him away from God. “Solomon worshiped Ashtoreth. Ashtoreth was the female god of the Sidonians. He also worshiped Molek. Molek was the god of the Ammonites. The Lord hated that god” (1 Kings 11:5, NIrV).

Now that we know a bit more about Israel’s history with Sidon and Tyre, we may be surprised that Jesus brought His followers to these lands. Jesus wanted His followers to work to save the people in foreign cities. But first, the followers needed to understand that their dislike for these people was wrong.

`What can you do to support Adventists who work for God in the cities?`