---
title:  Looking For The Lost In The Cities
date:   11/12/2023
---

`Read Matthew 9:35–38. What do these verses teach us about the work we must do for God in cities and other places where lots of people live?`

Wherever Jesus went, He felt love and pity for the crowds He met. Many of these people lived in big villages, towns, or cities. Luke 19:41 tells us that Jesus cried for Jerusalem. We may not understand how much Jesus loves His children in the cities. That’s why He asks us to pray for them. When we do, He will fill our hearts with love for them.

`When Jesus started His work for God on earth, people came to Him from different places. Where did they come from? Read the list in Matthew 4:23–25 for the answer.`

In Matthew 4:25, the people came from Galilee to follow Jesus. They also came from the city-states of the Decapolis to the east. They also came from Judea to the south. Notice they didn’t come from Samaria. What other area is missing from the list in Matthew 4:23–25? The answer is: the area of Tyre and Sidon, along the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. This area was to the north and west of Galilee. Now we see why Jesus took His followers to this area! He wanted to teach His followers to go help the people in foreign lands who hadn’t come to Him.

“After Jesus’ experience with the spiritual leaders, He left Capernaum. Then He crossed Galilee and went to the hill country on the borders of Phoenicia. When Jesus looked to the west, He saw the old cities of Tyre and Sidon on the plain below Him. These cities were filled with temples to false gods. The cities also had beautiful palaces and markets filled with goods. Ships filled their harbors.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 399, adapted.

`How can we help people in the cities understand that their “beautiful palaces and markets filled with goods” are empty without Jesus in their lives?`