---
title:  In Tyre And Sidon
date:   12/12/2023
---

Bible thinkers believe that Matthew wrote his book about Jesus for a Jewish audience. Bible thinkers also believe that Mark wrote his book about Jesus mostly for non-Jewish readers. This information helps us when we read the Gospels. The Gospels are the first four books of the New Testament: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.

`Read Matthew 15:22–28 and Mark 7:24–30. Compare the two stories in Matthew and Mark about the woman. What is different about her in each story?`

Do you see how Matthew says the mother is a Canaanite? Mark uses other words to tell us about this woman. She is a Greek or a non-Jew. Then Mark gives us more information. The woman was born in the area of Syro-Phoenicia, which means she is a Syrian from the land of Phoenica.

Think about how Matthew’s audience felt when they read the story in Matthew 15. Matthew’s audience was mostly Jewish. So, they thought Syro-Phoenicians were evil people who worshiped false gods. In the past, these people caused Israel to sin. So, the Jews in Jesus’ day didn’t like the Syro-Phoenicians very much. Jesus’ followers didn’t think that the woman had faith or was part of God’s kingdom!

Mark’s non-Jewish readers would have different feelings about the Syro-Phoenician woman when they read her story in Mark 7. The non-Jews didn’t have the same bad experience as the Jews did with the Syro-Phoenicians. So, Mark’s audience would feel excited when they read the story because Jesus healed someone who was one of them! To the non-Jews, the Syro-Phoenician woman was a beloved mother who cared about her daughter. The mother wanted Jesus to heal her child.

“Jesus didn’t answer the woman right away. He behaved the same as the Jews behaved around people they didn’t like. Jesus behaved this way because He wanted to teach His followers that they shouldn’t be cold and hard in their hearts to this woman. Then Jesus gave the woman what she asked for. Jesus showed mercy to her to teach His followers to help people who are suffering.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 400, adapted.

`Read 1 John 2:2. What does this verse tell us about how we are all the same in God’s eyes?`