---
title:  “Send Her Away!”
date:   13/12/2023
---

In the neighborhoods of the cities, many people long for hope. In Jesus’ day, what stopped God’s people from sharing His hope with the people in foreign cities? Pride and hatred for non-Jews made the Jews blind. They couldn’t see how much the people near to them needed the hope of Jesus’ first coming. Today, Jesus wants His people to share the hope of the Second Coming with many groups in the cities (Titus 2:13). Jesus didn’t worry about where people were born or where they lived. We should feel the same way as Jesus.

`Read Acts 10:9–16, 28, 34, 35. What lesson does the Holy Spirit teach us in these verses?`

While Peter waited for lunch, God gave him a vision or dream. Peter saw a tablecloth filled with animals and birds that weren’t clean. Three times in the vision God told Peter to get up and eat the animals. God used these dreams to show Peter that his heart was filled with religious pride and dislike for non-Jews. Peter learned an important Bible truth. He said, “ ‘I really understand now that to God every person is the same. God accepts anyone who worships him and does what is right. It is not important what country a person comes from’ ” (Acts 10:34, 35, ICB).

Now let’s go back to our story about Tyre and Sidon. What lessons can Peter’s words in Acts 10:34, 35 teach us about the story in Matthew 15:22–28 and Mark 7:24–30? Look again at Jesus and His conversation with the mother. What lessons did the followers learn from this field trip that Peter learned from his vision on the rooftop? How can these lessons help us as we work for Jesus in the cities? What dislikes fill our hearts that stop us from seeing the needs of people in the cities? What work has God given us to do in the cities around us? How can doing this work help us to empty our hearts of hate and spiritual pride?

Jesus was patient with His followers. They didn’t understand that God’s plan was for all humans everywhere. The Holy Spirit can help us empty our hearts of our dislike for other people. Then we can finish our work for God in the cities.

`How can we empty our hearts of hate and pride? Read Galatians 2:11–13 for the answer.`