---
title:  Faith On Earth?
date:   14/12/2023
---

Jesus asks a question at the end of one of His picture stories: “ ‘But when the Son of Man comes, will he find people on earth who have faith?’ ” (Luke 18:8, NIrV). What is Jesus looking for? The picture story in Luke 18 teaches us that Jesus wants people who believe in Him when times are hard and everything looks hopeless.

`Read Matthew 8:10, 13; Matthew 9:2; Matthew 20:29–34; Mark 2:5; Mark 10:46–52; and Luke 18:35–43. In these verses, who does Jesus say has faith?`

Jesus’ list includes people who had faith in cities. Their faith shined the same as a bright light during dark times. In Capernaum, Jesus talks about several people with faith. In Matthew 8:10, 13, we see a Roman soldier who has faith. We already studied about four faith-filled friends who rip open a roof to lower their sick friend to Jesus (Matthew 9:2; Mark 2:5). In Mark 10, we meet the blind man, Bartimaeus. After Jesus heals Bartimaeus, his faith shines the same as a bright light in the city of Jericho.

We expect much faith among God’s own people. Sad to say, the Bible says there was little faith and much doubt in places in Jesus’ day. People who lived in Nazareth, the town where Jesus grew up, didn’t have much faith. When we doubt God, we limit God’s blessings in our lives. Many times Jesus says to the Jews, “ ‘Your faith is so small!’ ” (Matthew 6:30, NIrV; Matthew 8:26; Matthew 14:31; Matthew 16:8). In Matthew 17:17, Jesus says, “ ‘You people today have no faith’ ” (ERV).

One lesson we can learn today is that we can find faith in places we don’t expect to find it: in the hearts of foreigners who live in cities, in people who worship false gods, and in people from different religions. We need to enter the cities as Jesus did. We must look for the lost who will accept Jesus with saving faith. These people are waiting for our help.

`Task #1: Pray for more faith to share your love for Jesus with people near and far away.`

`Task #2: How did you come to know Jesus and His Three Angels’ Messages? Make a list of three spiritual blessings that Jesus gave you in your personal life. Share your list with your class on Sabbath.`