---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   15/12/2023
---

“Many non-Jews had a better understanding of the Bible promises about the coming Savior than the Jewish teachers. Some of these non-Jews hoped for His coming to save them from sin. These thinkers wanted to learn more about the offerings the Jews made that showed Jesus’ saving work. But the Jews prevented these non-Jews from learning about this Bible truth.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 33, adapted.

“The Lord Jesus is our Mighty Savior. He died for men and women everywhere. Jesus can wake them up from spiritual sleep. He can fill their hearts with mercy and love. Jesus can soften their hearts. He can show them Bible truth. God is the Master Worker, and not man. At the same time, God chooses men to be His helpers. God wants workers who will share Bible truth with people who don’t know it. God has people who are loyal to Him in all the churches. These people are the same as jewels. So, we must not say terrible things about people from other religions. With love in our hearts, we must share the Bible truth about Jesus. Let other people see our love for God. Let them see that we are God’s children. Then they will want to learn more about Bible truth. . . . Show people Jesus in your life. He is the Savior of the human family.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, January 17, 1893, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What are some of the needs of people in the area where you live? How can you and your church meet these needs? How can you help meet the needs of people who don’t know the Bible truths that we know?`

`Look at the Ellen G. White quote above about people from other faiths: “God has people who are loyal to Him in all the churches. These people are the same as jewels. So, we must not say terrible things about people from other religions.” How can we teach people that their beliefs and behaviors are not correct without putting these people down?`

`Jesus asked, “ ‘When the Son of Man comes, will he find people on earth who have faith?’ ” (Luke 18:8, NIrV). What is Jesus really asking with this question? How are faith and belief different? What if people have correct beliefs but don’t have any faith? How can that happen?`