---
title:  Living Wisely
date:   19/08/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 5:1, 2; Ephesians 5:7–10; Ephesians 5:11–14; Ephesians 5:15–17; Ephesians 5:18–20.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “So be very careful how you live. Do not live like [the same as] those [people] who are not wise. Live wisely. I mean that you should use every chance you have for doing good, because these are evil times. So do not be foolish with your lives. But learn what the Lord wants you to do” (Ephesians 5:15–17, ICB).

Not long ago, a glass jug went on sale in Great Britain. The seller said that the jug was made in France during the 1800s. The seller offered to sell the jug for $200.00. A buyer who came to see the jug knew the real history about the jug. The jug was very old glass that was made by an Islamic glass maker. So, what was the jug really worth? About $6.5 million dollars! But the buyer paid only $200.00 for the jug because he knew something that the seller didn’t know. The buyer knew the real value of the jug.

In Ephesians 5:1–20, Paul talks about the things that non-Christians thought were important in life. Non-Christians liked “dirty [about sex] jokes” (Ephesians 5:4, NIrV) and “funny stories” that made fun of people (Ephesians 5:4, WE). They liked to get drunk at parties (Ephesians 5:18). They also liked to have sex that broke God’s law (Ephesians 5:3, 5). Paul says that Christians are different. Christians love and “do all that is good and right and true” (Ephesians 5:9, WE) in Jesus. Paul tells Christians to make Jesus their treasure as they get ready in this life for heaven (Ephesians 5:15–17).