---
title:  Living as Jesus Lived
date:   20/08/2023
---

`Paul says that Christians should try to live as Jesus lived. What does Paul mean? Read Ephesians 5:1, 2 for the answer.`

Paul tells the Christians in Ephesus to love other people as Jesus loved them (Ephesians 5:8, 15). Jesus showed how much He loved us when He died on the cross for our sins. His unselfish love (compare Ephesians 4:32) is our example (Ephesians 5:2). Paul tells us four things about Jesus’ dying for us:

1\. Jesus died for us because He loves us (Ephesians 5:2) and because God the Father loves us (Ephesians 5:1).

2\. Jesus took our punishment. He is our Substitute. He took our place on the cross.

3\. Jesus’ death is an offering, which He made to God.

4\. God accepts Jesus’ death, which is the same as a sweet-smelling offering (Ephesians 5:2; compare Exodus 29:18; Leviticus 2:9; Philippians 4:18).

Some of the new Christians in Ephesus are in danger of going back to their old behavior in the past. Paul doesn’t want their bad behavior to destroy the good work they do for God (compare 1 Corinthians 5:1–11; 1 Corinthians 6:12–20; 2 Corinthians 12:21). So, in Ephesians 5:3–5, Paul tells his readers about God’s rules for sex.

During New Testament times, the citizens of the Kingdom of Rome were guilty of many sex sins (read 1 Corinthians 6:9; Galatians 5:19; Ephesians 4:17–19; Colossians 3:5). Rich people gave feasts and parties. People sinned at these parties. In Ephesians 5:3–14, Paul warned about these sins. These sins included getting drunk, sex talk and entertainment, and other sins. At the same time, there were many Roman citizens who didn’t like or accept this evil behavior. The Romans made lists for good behavior and bad behavior and tried to follow their own rules (Ephesians 5:21–6:9; Colossians 3:18–4:1). Paul wanted Christians to avoid the evil behavior of the non-Christians. Paul also wanted Christians to be careful to live holy lives. Then non-Christians would see their good behavior and respect them and their beliefs.

`How do Paul’s words about sex sins and evil behavior help us today?`