---
title:  Children Who Belong to the Light
date:   21/08/2023
---

Paul writes, “Don’t let anyone fool you with words that are not true. God gets very angry when people who don’t obey him talk like that” (Ephesians 5:6, ERV).

In the verse before Ephesians 5:6, Paul warns us about what will happen to people who sin without feeling ashamed of their behavior or sorry for the wrong things they do: “Be sure of this! No person who does sex sins or who is not pure [clean] will have any part in the holy nation [kingdom] of Christ [Jesus] and of God. The same is true for the person who always wants what other people have. This [always wanting] becomes [the same as] a god to him” (Ephesians 5:5, NLV). So, we who want to be part of God’s kingdom shouldn’t behave the same as people who aren’t part of His kingdom. Paul worries that Christians will be tricked into thinking that sex sins are okay to do (Ephesians 5:6). If we believe that sex sins are okay, then we are in danger. God’s anger will punish the ones who do sex sins (Ephesians 5:6).

God’s anger is a difficult idea for us to understand. We must remember that God’s anger isn’t the same as human anger. As humans, our anger comes from our feelings (compare Ephesians 4:31). So, our anger isn’t always fair. God’s anger isn’t a feeling; His anger comes from His love for His law and from His anger for sin. So, God’s anger is always fair and holy. His anger is His answer to humans’ stubborn wish to do evil. God sends many warnings before He sends His punishment (Revelation 6:12–17; Revelation 16:1–16; Revelation 19:11–16). God’s warnings show us His mercy. We should have suffered God’s anger because we are sinners (Ephesians 2:3).

`Why does Paul tell Christians not to join sinners in doing sin? Read Ephesians 5:7–10 for the answer.`

We belong to God (Ephesians 5:8). So, Paul tells us our behavior should show that we are God’s. We should try to learn about the things that make God happy (Ephesians 5:10). Non-Christians try to find pleasure in sex sins. They also want more things than they need (Ephesians 5:3). God’s plan for His children is different. We must not live to please ourselves. We must live to please God (Romans 12:1; 2 Corinthians 5:9; Hebrews 13:21). Our lives should show other people how much Jesus loves us (Ephesians 5:2).