---
title:  Wake Up, Sleeper!
date:   22/08/2023
---

`Read Ephesians 5:11–14. What powerful warning does Paul give us in these verses? What does this warning mean for us as Christians today?`

If we want to understand Ephesians 5:11–14, we must understand two important rules that Paul gives us:

1\. Live a life that honors God. Show everyone around you that you belong to God (Ephesians 5:8; also, read Ephesians 5:1, 2, 4, 9–11, 13, 14).

2\. Don’t do sex sins or live a life of sin (Ephesians 5:11; also, read Ephesians 5:3–8, 12).

Ephesians 5:8–10 helps us to understand better Ephesians 5:11. Non-Christians watch the things we say and do. So, our lives must show other people that we belong to God (Ephesians 5:8). Then Christians will show other people that God is the light. “This light gives us truth. It makes us right [accepted] with God and makes us good” (Ephesians 5:9, NLV). This advice is Paul’s plan for showing other people God’s love. As Christians, we must show that sin is bad. We do that by living a holy life.

Ephesians 5:13, 14 tells us that Christians can win non-Christians to Jesus by living holy lives: “But the light [God and His Bible truth] makes clear [easy to see] how wrong those things are. Yes, everything is made clear by the light. This is why we say,

‘Wake up, you who are sleeping! Rise from death, and Christ will shine on you’ ” (Ephesians 5:13, 14, ERV).

When sinners understand that their evil behavior causes them to lose everlasting life (Ephesians 5:5, 6), then they will understand that they must change. When they have this experience, they can be saved if they accept Jesus.

Ephesians 5:14 is a poem. In this poem, Paul tells Christians to wake up from spiritual sleep and allow Jesus to change their lives. This poem helps us remember Isaiah 60:1–3, which is written to God’s people, Israel. So, we also may understand that the poem in Ephesians 5:14 is asking Christians to wake up. Paul wants God’s people to remember that they are workers for God. They must shine for Jesus the same as lights in this dark earth.

`How does your life show Bible truth to other people?`