---
title:  Getting A Good Bargain
date:   23/08/2023
---

Paul ends Ephesians 5:1–20 with encouraging advice in verses 15–17 and in verses 18–20. Paul says, “So be very careful how you live. Live wisely, not like [the same as] fools” (Ephesians 5:15, ERV). Paul then says the same thing again in a different way: “So do not be foolish with your lives. But learn what the Lord wants you to do” (Ephesians 5:17, ICB). In between these two verses, Paul tells his readers to “use every chance you have for doing good” (Ephesians 5:16, ICB).

`Think about Paul’s advice to live wisely (Ephesians 5:15–17). How is living wisely different from living as a foolish person? Also, what does Paul mean when he says, “Make the best use of your time” (Ephesians 5:16, NLV)?`

In Ephesians, Paul talks about how Christians should live or not live (Ephesians 2:2, 10; Ephesians 4:1, 17; Ephesians 5:2, 8). Paul wants Christians to live wisely. So, they must be careful with the decisions they make in life. Ephesians 5:17 helps us understand how we may live as wise people. Wise people learn and “understand what the Lord wants” them to do (Ephesians 5:17, NIrV).

So, what does Paul mean when he says, “Make the best use of your time” (Ephesians 5:16, NLV)? Do you see the word written as “make”? This word comes from the verb “exagorazō” in the Greek language. “Exagorazō” comes from the verb “to buy” and means “to get a good bargain.” Paul is saying that Jesus offers us “a good bargain.” Jesus’ good bargain is mercy and forgiveness for our sins. Another good bargain that Jesus offers us is everlasting life. Paul says we should “grab” these bargains as fast as we can while we wait for Jesus to come back. The word “time” in Ephesians 5:16 comes from the Greek word “kairos.” “Kairos” is a chance to do something. So, Paul is saying that now is our chance to use our “time” wisely before Jesus comes back. “Time” also means the hard times that we live in today. We live in hard times because the days are filled with evil and trouble (Ephesians 5:16; compare Ephesians 6:13; Galatians 1:4). Of course, the devil makes this time difficult for us, too (Ephesians 2:2).

As Christians, we must be the same as “bargain hunters” in the marketplace. Of course, we can’t buy God’s mercy. But we can take what God freely offers us in Jesus.