---
title:  Spirit-filled Worship
date:   24/08/2023
---

`In Ephesians 5:18–20, Paul talks about worship. What does Paul say Christians should do when they worship?`

In Ephesians 5:1–20, Paul gives Christians advice about alcohol. Paul tells his readers not to get drunk with wine. Paul says that getting drunk is wrong. The Old Testament warns against getting drunk, too (Proverbs 20:1; Proverbs 23:29–35). Evil things happen when people get drunk. Drunk people say things they shouldn’t say. They do bad things. Getting drunk weakens their love for God. Paul encourages Christians to fill their hearts with the Holy Spirit. Spirit-filled Christians will talk about God. These Christians will give God thanks. They will sing praises to Him.

When we are filled with the Holy Spirit, there will be peace and agreement in the church (Ephesians 4). Our worship of God will be different, too. Our worship won’t be selfish (Ephesians 5:1–18).

Do you see in Ephesians 5:18–20 that Paul talks a lot about music? Music is an important part of worship. So is praise. Also, read Colossians 3:16; compare Acts 16:25; James 5:13. These verses, also, show us that music is an important part of our worship of God.

When church members sing, it is the same as talking to each other (Ephesians 5:19). At the same time, we must remember that when we sing, we are praising God. As part of our worship, we give God thanks (Ephesians 5:20), and we praise Him with songs (Ephesians 5:19). We offer both our songs and our praise to God the Father in Jesus’ name (compare Colossians 3:16). That is why Paul says, “Encourage each other with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs” (Ephesians 5:19, ERV). Do you see the words “spiritual songs”? The word “spiritual” comes from the Greek word “pneumatikos.” We understand this word to mean songs filled with the Holy Spirit or songs that He leads us to sing. So, Paul shows us in Ephesians 5:18–20 that we worship all Three Persons of the Godhead when we worship. The Godhead is the Father, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit.

`Think about the words to your favorite spiritual song. How do these songs help you understand Jesus’ love better?`