---
title:  Additional thought
date:   25/08/2023
---

As we read Ephesians 5:1–20 again, we see that Paul takes a strong stand against sin and evil. These sins include sex sins. Paul also says that Christians must not joke or talk in a way that doesn’t honor God. Paul refuses to accept evil behavior in the church. Paul encourages Christians in Ephesus to be examples of holy living. Their lives must show that they are God’s children (Ephesians 5:1–10). Paul believes that when Christians live for God, they will shine the same as light in the dark. Then they will lead their neighbors away from evil behavior to God’s mercy and Bible truth (Ephesians 5:11–14).

Paul wants church members to make a new promise to serve God fully while they wait for Jesus to come back (Ephesians 5:8; also, read Ephesians 5:15, 16). Paul also wants Jesus to live in the hearts of church members and to be with His church (Ephesians 5:14) when they worship. Then Jesus’ death for them will fill them with love for God (Ephesians 5:1, 2). Then the Holy Spirit will fill their hearts (Ephesians 5:18), too. Their worship experience will be filled with joy as they sing praises to the Lord Jesus Christ and to God the Father. Christians also should celebrate their hope for the future. Their hope comes from everything God has done for them and will do for them in Jesus (Ephesians 5:18–20).

When we understand Ephesians 5:1–20 in this way, we will see that these chapters are more than a set of commands about Christian living. These verses are an announcement to Christians about who they are and how they must worship in the end times. More than that, these verses become an invitation to Christians to “grab” all the “bargains” of mercy that God offers until Jesus comes back (Ephesians 5:16).

**Discussion Questions**:

`Paul tells us to be holy. How can we be holy when there is so much sin and evil behavior around us today?`

`How can we learn what pleases God (Ephesians 5:10) and His plan for us (Ephesians 5:17)?`

`Paul says Christians must not talk about sex sins (Ephesians 5:3, 4). Some people misunderstand Paul. They think Paul means we must accept sex sins in the church. Why is this idea wrong?`