---
title:  Our Enemy
date:  16/02/2019
---

**Introduction**: Gen. 3:15

A survey conducted by the Barna Group in 2009 found that 40 percent of the Christians interviewed believed that Satan is “not a living being but a symbol of evil.”

Isn’t it sad that many Christians do not believe that Satan exists? Four out of ten people is not a small number. The Bible war ns that Satan is real. The Word of God paints a picture of the devil as an extraordinarily powerful being who Christians must take seriously. He is present from Genesis through Revelation.

In Genesis 3:15 we read about the curse placed on the enemy after the great deception in the Garden of Eden. In the New Testament, Paul war ns that our struggle with Satan is “not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in heavenly places” (Eph. 6:12, KJ2000).

Many times, the world in which we live is frightening, cold, unfriendly, and scary. These are some of the signs that Satan really exists; he has something to do with these occurrences around us. As Christians living in this time, we should know the enemy lest we fall for his traps.

The Bible details God’s promises, His plans and purposes for His children. On the other hand, the Word of God also teaches about the origins of the enemy, Satan, what he does currently, and how we can avoid his snares. According to Ezekiel 28:15, Lucifer was created perfect, just as any other angelic being. His name meant “morning star” or “light bearer.”

Despite these privileges, Lucifer chose to become Satan—the enemy of God. The Bible, through the prophet Isaiah, reveals that Lucifer rebelled against God. He developed a self-appointed purpose to go against the principles of God; he brought confusion and destruction to humanity and aimed to foil God’s purpose.

As this world draws closer to an end, Satan knows too well that he is in the last laps of the race to deceive God’s children. Therefore, he uses every means possible to achieve his goals. However, as God’s children, we have the assurance that Satan is a defeated enemy. This week, our study will focus on how we, through God’s love and protection, can avoid the deceptions of the enemy just before the close of time.

---

<sup>1. “Most Christians Do Not Believe That Satan or the Holy Spirit Exist,” Barna, April 13, 2009, https://www.barna.com/research/most-american-christians-do-not-believe-that-satan-or-the-holy-spirit-exist/.</sup>

_Anne Akoth, Pipeline, Nairobi, Kenya_