---
title:  The Beginning of Satan’s Influence
date:  17/02/2019
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 12:9

In 1995, a leader in my local church had the opportunity to attend the General Conference Session in Utrecht, the Netherlands. He came back to narrate a story how, upon their arrival at the airport, they met a drunk man who could not pronounce his own name properly.

I knew that my friend was used to seeing drunken men and women even in our country. Yet somehow he did not expect to meet one that far away from home. Well, drunkenness is just one way by which Satan has affected the world.

We need to learn the characteristics of Satan and the methods he uses that make him so convincing and deceptive. In 2 Corinthians 11:13, Paul warns Christians to beware of “false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ.” This teaching is consistent with the fact that Lucifer transformed from an angel of light to Satan, the enemy. In our society today, the works of Satan are evident everywhere. People have divergent views on the purpose of life and the continuing decadence of moral and spiritual standards, values, and lifestyles. Many people believe and practice contrary to what the Bible teaches.

In the midst of all this, God, through Christ, has shown us the way to defeat the enemy. What we learn from the Bible is different from what we see happening around us. This is because Satan has constructed lies for every generation. Ever since he was expelled from heaven, Satan has been using different methods to tell his lies. He has invaded science, education, entertainment, religion, and other sectors to accomplish his goals. However, God is aware that our enemy lurks around, so He has given us guidelines in the divine Word. “Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour” (1 Pet. 5:8). Those who live in areas infested with dangerous wild animals know the precautions to take in order to avoid confrontation. Ephesians 6:10–18 teaches about the armor of God, which we must take upon us to protect us from the enemy.

**React**

`1. What precautions would you take if you were being hunted by a dangerous wild animal? How would you apply your precautions to what we must do to protect ourselves against Satan?`

`2. How can we make sure that Satan does not invade our spiritual or moral space?`

---

_Nobert Kurema, Thika, Kenya_