---
title:  Fitting Descriptions
date:  19/02/2019
---

**Testimony**: Rev. 12:1–5

“The child which was born to the expectant desires of a waiting and watching church, was our adorable Redeemer, who is soon to rule the nations with a rod of iron. Herod could not destroy him; the combined powers of earth and hell could not overcome him; and though held for a time under the dominion of the grave, he rent its cruel bands, opened a way of life for mankind, and was caught up to God and his throne. He ascended to heaven in the sight of his disciples, leaving to them and us the promise that he would come again.”1

Satan looked forward to Christ’s mission to earth and his last chance to overthrow the plan of salvation. He came to Christ with specious temptations; he tried destroying Him during His ministry; and when he had succeeded in laying Him in the tomb, he endeavored, in malignant triumph, to hold Him there. But in every encounter, the Son of God emerged triumphant and He sends back this gracious promise to His faithful followers: “To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in His throne” (Rev. 3:21).

“Again, there seem to be a number of instances in which Satan is spoken of as defeated, or cast down. One was his first rejection from heaven; another, when Christ overcame him at his first advent; and there will be another in the future, when he is cast into the bottomless pit, and shut up for a thousand years. And on each successive occasion, we behold a regularly increasing limitation of his power. He falls a degree lower in every succeeding combat.”2

“If the view is correct that we have already reached the generation which is to witness the closing up of earthly scenes, this warfare against the truth cannot be far in the future.

“This remnant is characterized by the keeping of the commandments of God, and having the testimony of Jesus Christ.”3

**React**

`How can we uphold the commandments of God in faith and practice?`

---

<sup>1. Uriah Smith, Daniel and the Revelation (Southern Publishing Association, 1897), p. 548.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 551.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., p. 557.</sup>

_Brenda Kurema, Thika, Kenya_