---
title:  How Can We Resist the Enemy?
date:  20/02/2019
---

**How-to**: Rev. 12:11

We have choices to make in life. Choices about our studies, our jobs, our families, how we spend our money, and many more. Meanwhile, Satan is on the loose, seeking to deceive us. How, then, can we be sure that we are doing the right thing—not being led astray by the devil?

In Revelation 12:11, we learn that we can only defeat the enemy “by the blood of the Lamb.” Christ defeated Satan both in heaven and on earth. Therefore, armed by the blood of the Lamb, we can make the right choices in accordance with God’s will; we can apply God’s truth to every situation that we encounter and in every decision that we make.

The Bible teaches that the blood of Christ overcomes the power of Satan (Rev. 12:11). The accusations of Satan against us are useless as long as we purify ourselves with the blood of the Lamb. Moreover, Satan will not have power over us forever. His fate is already decided, upon the return of Jesus Christ.

Christ already paid the penalty for our sins. Even if our sins are as red as scarlet, by the death of Christ on the cross we can be reconciled to God through the blood of the Lamb “in whom we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of His grace” (Eph. 1:7).

It is not the literal blood of Christ that cleanses and saves. It is His death on the cross on our behalf, the judgment, and the weight of sin He carried in our place, that saves us. Here is what we must do to resist the devil: Know the price of our salvation. Usually, the highly prized possessions get the best protection and maintenance from us. Our salvation cost Christ His life. He died on our behalf to assure our salvation. We should do everything possible to safeguard our loyalty to Christ.

Be prayerful. Prayer and praise are excellent swords against the devil. We should use them at all times, in every situation.

Use the Bible as a guide. “Through your precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way” (Ps. 119:104, KJ2000).

**React**

`How does the devil accuse us before God, and how can we come clean on the accusations? (cf. Job 2:5; Rev. 12:10.)`

---

_Patience Joyner, Kilimani, Nairobi, Kenya_