---
title:  My Weapon Against the Enemy
date:  21/02/2019
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 12:17

I recently watched one retired major general from my country explaining how he disarmed thousands of armed rebel youth in a peacekeeping mission in Liberia. Interestingly, at some point he said that he did not carry a weapon whenever he went to meet the rebels. I wondered how he managed to perform his duties without the rebels raising a finger against him.

Anyone fighting a war knows very well that fighters must arm themselves with appropriate weapons. When Satan lost the war in heaven, he was thrown down here to earth. Consequently, Satan took the war to those who “keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ” (Rev. 12:17). As a follower of Christ, I’m aware of this war.

To protect myself from Satan, combat his endless deceit, and fight the war effectively, I need effective weapons. The first weapon I have is the blood of the Lamb. Christ shed His blood on the cross to save me. The death of Christ assures me of forgiveness for my sins (Rom. 8:31–34). Yes, I am a sinner, but Satan, my accuser, should know that the blood of the Lamb covers me. My sins were nailed to the cross at Calvary, and God will no longer hold them against me. Besides, the blood of the Lamb gives me the power to overcome any snare that Satan might set up against me.

My second weapon is the testimony of Jesus Christ. This weapon refers to my words and my actions. We are called to be the light and salt of the world (Matt. 5:13–16). As such, we are supposed to let our light shine through our words and deeds. By sharing the testimony of Christ with the world, we reclaim territory from Satan, and this intimidates him. The testimony of Christ is powerful, life changing, and indisputable.

The third weapon I have against the enemy is the spirit of selflessness. The Bible teaches that the slain saints were willing to give up anything for Christ. They gave up their possessions, their reputation, and even their lives. In the footsteps of the saints, we would rather die than to prove unfaithful to our Savior. Selflessness is a quality of Christ that we must embrace if we are to defeat the devil and triumph with Christ.

**React**

`1. What are some of the things we must give up to be faithful to Christ?`

`2. What can we learn from the lives of the slain saints, such as Stephen, to help us gain victory in the war we are currently fighting?`

---

_Silas Onyango, Dagoretti, Nairobi, Kenya_