---
title:  Defeating the Enemy
date:  22/02/2019
---

**Exploration**: Rev. 19:10

**Conclude**

No enemy comes to be defeated. An enemy comes to fight and to subdue the opponent. To defeat an enemy, one must have the required fighting skills, the best weapons, and stamina to fight. We are in a war with Satan. Armed with his best tools, he is ready to attack anytime. On our part, we need the most powerful tools to combat his equipment. Fortunately, God has given us the best message—that Satan is already defeated. As long as we allow Christ to live in us and to fight the war on our behalf, victory is ours.

**Consider**

- Writing the word DEFEAT as an acronym. Use each letter to form a quality that we need to defeat Satan. For example, letter “D” could mean, “Depending on Christ.”

- Drawing the image of a nice-looking person with the qualities of the devil. Connect your artwork with what agents of Satan do to lure followers of Christ.

- Asking a veteran or a retired soldier what preparations one needs to make before going into war. Check out the preparations and precautions you need to observe in your spiritual warfare with Satan.

- Making flash cards with the following words in bold: THOUGHTS, WORDS, and DEEDS. Think of how you can put your thoughts, words, and actions in line with the commandments of God and the testimony of Christ.

- Writing a short story about your journey with Christ, citing the challenges and sufferings you have encountered because of His work. Consider how your challenges and sufferings compare to those the apostles encountered.

- Drawing a timeline of the order of events regarding the war between Satan and God’s people, from the Garden of Eden to our time. Include how God intervenes to protect and save His people from perishing at the hand of Satan.

- Painting the scenes in Revelation 12:1–6. Reflect on the meaning of your painting and use it to illustrate John’s message.

**Connect**

Daniel 9:24–27; Matthew 2:16–18; Mark 4:35–41.

Hans K. LaRondelle, “The End-Time Message in Historical Perspective,” Ministry, December 1996, https://www.ministrymagazine.org/archive/1996/12/the-end-time-message-in-historical-perspective.

---

_Erick Onyango, Embakasi, Nairobi, Kenya_