---
title:  Thanksgiving
date:  23/08/2026
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 1:3–7. What is the reason for Paul’s attitude of thanksgiving here?`

Paul’s thankfulness focuses on the comfort that God provides for those who are suffering. In this passage, the verb _parakaleō_ (to comfort) and the noun _paraklēsis_ (comfort) occur together ten times. This represents one third of all occurrences of these words in 2 Corinthians (29 times). God is portrayed as the “Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our tribulation” (2 Cor. 1:3, 4, NKJV).

The comfort one receives from God is not to be kept for oneself (2 Cor. 1:4, 5). Only the afflicted heart that became the recipient of God’s consolation is able to impart comfort effectively to those in affliction, too.

Paul could comfort others because he himself, in his sufferings, received comfort from God. “If we are afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation. . . . Or if we are comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation” (2 Cor. 1:6, NKJV; emphasis supplied). This is love!

`What is Paul expressing thanks for in 2 Corinthians 1:8–11?`

Paul speaks of trouble “beyond measure, above strength” that made him and his fellow workers fear that the end had come to them (2 Cor. 1:8). For a moment, they thought the resurrection was their only hope. However, God delivered them, and the scenario changed (2 Cor. 1:10). From the fear of death (2 Cor. 1:8), they rise to an implicit hope that God would deliver them once again (2 Cor. 1:10). God’s victories in the past give us confidence that He will do the same in the future. God uses afflictions to teach us to trust in Him. Hardships can lead us to spiritual maturity, at least to the extent that we allow them to draw us closer to God. Paul’s thanksgiving also displays the power of intercessory prayer and the gratitude we experience because of God’s deliverance (2 Cor. 1:11).

`What have you found helpful in dealing with the suffering that, one way or another, we all face?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God desires His obedient children to claim His blessing and to come before Him with praise and thanksgiving. God is the Fountain of life and power. . . . He has done for His chosen people that which should inspire every heart with thanksgiving, and it grieves Him that so little praise is offered. He desires to have a stronger expression from His people, showing that they know they have reason for joy and gladness.\
The dealings of God with His people should be often repeated. How frequently were the waymarks set up by the Lord in His dealings with ancient Israel! Lest they should forget the history of the past, He commanded Moses to frame these events into song, that parents might teach them to their children. . . . For His people in this generation the Lord has wrought as a wonder-working God. The past history of the cause of God needs to be often brought before the people, young and old. We need often to recount God’s goodness and to praise Him for His wonderful works. . . .\
The church of God below is one with the church of God above. Believers on the earth and the beings in heaven who have never ­fall­­­­en­­ constitute one church. Every heavenly intelligence is interested in the assemblies of the saints who on earth meet to worship God. In the inner court of heaven they listen to the testimony of the witnesses for Christ in the outer court on earth, and the praise and thanksgiving from the worshipers below is taken up in the heavenly anthem, and praise and rejoicing sound through the heavenly courts because Christ has not died in vain for the fallen sons of Adam. While angels drink from the fountainhead, the saints on earth drink of the pure streams flowing from the throne, the streams that make glad the city of our God. Oh, that we could all realize the nearness of heaven to earth! . . . In every assembly of the saints below are angels of God, listening to the testimonies, songs, and prayers. Let us remember that our praises are supplemented by the choirs of the angelic host above.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 75.

Let praise and thanksgiving be expressed in song. When ­tempted, instead of giving utterance to our feelings, let us by faith lift up a song of thanksgiving to God. . . .\
Song is a weapon that we can always use against discouragement. As we thus open the heart to the sunlight of the Saviour’s presence, we shall have health and His blessing.\
“Give thanks unto the Lord, for He is good:\
For His mercy endureth forever.\
Let the redeemed of the Lord say so,\
Whom He hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy.” . . .\
“In everything give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.” 1 Thessalonians 5:18. This command is an assurance that even the things which appear to be against us will work for our good. God would not bid us be thankful for that which would do us harm.—The Ministry of Healing, pp. 254, 255.