---
title:  Simplicity and Sincerity
date:  24/08/2026
---

Yesterday, we learned that Paul’s love for the Corinthians was made manifest in that he comforted them in their hardships, just as he received comfort from God in his (2 Cor. 1:1–11). Today, we will see that his love for them was also displayed through the integrity that he and his fellow workers manifested toward the church members in Corinth.

`Read 2 Corinthians 1:12–14 in the light of 2 Corinthians 2:17 and 2 Corinthians 4:2. How does Paul’s sincerity reveal his love for the Corinthians?`

Second Corinthians 1:12–14 introduces the thesis Paul will develop in the rest of the letter. His integrity and apostleship have been questioned by some in Corinth. They thought Paul had a vacillating and indecisive character, which was not fitting for the apostolic ministry. In response, Paul stresses that he and his colleagues behaved with the utmost integrity toward them.

Two words portray the conduct of Paul and his associates: simplicity and sincerity (2 Cor. 1:12). The term “simplicity” comes from the Greek word haplotēs. It is applied here to express personal integrity in speech or behavior; in short, it reveals the purity of motives (Eph. 6:5, Col. 3:22). In turn, the term “sincerity” (from the Greek eilikrineia) also points to integrity and purity of motives.

The Corinthians should not have doubted the clarity of Paul’s intentions. He makes it clear that his simplicity and sincerity have their origin in God. This idea is well captured by the New English Translation Bible, which mentions “pure motives and sincerity which are from God” (2 Cor. 1:12, emphasis supplied). In the same verse, Paul further asserts that these ministerial qualities are given to us “by the grace of God.”

It seems Paul’s opponents misinterpreted his words, in previous written communications (2 Cor. 1:13, 14). Paul guarantees that his intentions were clear and understandable. He was sure that the uprightness of his words, intentions, and actions would be made clear “in the day of the Lord Jesus” (2 Cor. 1:14, NKJV).

`What has been your own experience with having your motives or intentions, however well-meaning and sincere, questioned or challenged? What should that tell you about how careful you should be when questioning someone else’s motives?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Our conscience must be purged from dead works to serve the living God. Sanctification means perfect love, perfect obedience, entire conformity to the will of God. If our lives are conformed to the life of Christ through the sanctification of mind, soul, and body, our example will have a powerful influence on the world. We are not perfect, but it is our privilege to cut away from the entanglements of self and sin, and go on unto perfection. . . .\
Great possibilities, high and holy attainments, are placed within the reach of all who have true faith. Shall we not anoint our eyes with eyesalve, that we may discern the wondrous things here brought before us? Why do we not with persevering earnestness, work out this prayer, advancing onward and upward, reaching the standard of holiness? We are laborers together with God, and we must work in harmony with one another and with God, “for it is God which worketh in. . . [us] both to will and to do of his good pleasure.” . . .\
The Lord takes no pleasure in seeing us spiritually weak. “God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us.” We have conflicts and trials to meet, but we need not fail or be discouraged. . . .\
God can only be honored when we who profess to believe in Him are conformed to His image. We are to represent to the world the ­beauty of holiness, and we shall never enter the gates of the city of God until we perfect a Christlike character. If we, with trust in God, strive for sanctification, we shall receive it. Then as witnesses for Christ, we are to make known what the grace of God has wrought in us.—Our Father Cares, p. 293.\
The greatest disquietude we can have is uncertainty. The acceptance of the blessings of God brings righteousness and peace. The fruit of righteousness is quietness and assurance forever. We must have simplicity and Godlike sincerity. We must have that wisdom which cometh from above. Our Christian experience must be animated by piety, and instinct with the divine life.—The Upward Look, p. 99.