---
title:  Further Thought
date:  28/08/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Message Heeded,” pp. 323–334, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“Those who have borne the greatest sorrows are frequently the ones who carry the greatest comfort to others, bringing sunshine wherever they go. Such ones have been chastened and sweetened by their afflictions; they did not lose confidence in God when trouble assailed them, but clung closer to His protecting love. Such ones are living proof of the tender care of God.”—Ellen G. White, God’s Amazing Grace, p. 122.

“A consecrated Christian life is ever shedding light and comfort and peace. It is characterized by purity, tact, simplicity, and usefulness. It is controlled by that unselfish love that sanctifies the influence. It is full of Christ, and leaves a track of light wherever its possessor may go.”—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 122.

“The apostle Paul found it necessary to reprove wrong in the church, but he did not lose his self-control in reproving error. He anxiously explains the reason of his action. How carefully he wrought so as to leave the impression that he was a friend of the erring! He made them understand that it cost him pain to give them pain. He left the impression upon their minds that his interest was identified with theirs.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 6, p. 1094.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In 2 Corinthians 2:1–14, Paul affirms his integrity in ministry. Why is this ministerial quality so crucial?`

`What does the fact that Paul changed his traveling plan tell us about the necessity of flexibility in Christian ministry? Why is it important to be open to change when needed?`

`Paul faced anguish and anxiety in his ministry. This clearly shows that church leaders are human beings who are as exposed to distress as any other people. What can church members do in order to ease their work?`

`Paul refers to his restlessness (2 Cor. 2:13) right before mentioning his triumph in Christ (2 Cor. 2:14). How could he talk about his weakness and strength at the same time? How can we?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Sons and Daughters of God, “We Are Witnesses for God,” September 24, p. 274.\
God’s Amazing Grace, “A Life-giving Atmosphere,” August 18, p. 238.\