---
title:  To Know Peace and Goodness
date:  26/09/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Job 22:21–30

To Know Peace and Goodness

The book of Job tells the story of a rich man who lost everything he had—family, riches, and even his personal health—and then gained it all back again, and more. The book paints a clear picture of the great controversy (or battle) between God and Satan. Oblivious to conversations between God and Satan about him, Job doesn’t realize his trial is the result of Satan’s assertion that the only reason Job worships God is that He gives Job good things. This opens the door for heartache and challenges that very few people have ever been asked to endure.

At the apex of this experience, Job’s friends believe that he has offended God. Why else would God allow so many bad things to happen to someone? Chapter 22 records the surprising words of his friend Eliphaz, who is completely wrong in his analysis of Job’s situation but gives the true and most important life counsel: “Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace: thereby good shall come unto thee” (Job 22:21, KJV). The Bible purports that knowing God results in peace.

Societies around the world have long felt that education is the answer to solving the world’s greatest problems. The cure for cancer, racism, poverty, or corruption all seem to find their answer through education and knowledge. In this sense, the ultimate purpose of education is to produce peace and good. The world and the Bible both agree that some form of education is the key that unlocks peace and goodness. But this week the study looks at the knowledge that Eliphaz counsels—an acquaintance with God.

#### inScribe

Write out Job 22:21–30 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``