---
title:  Feeling Happy That Jesus is Alive
date:   22/09/2024
---

`What happens in Mark 15:42–16:6? Why is this story so important to Jesus’ resurrection? Remember, the Resurrection is the time when Jesus woke up from the dead.`

Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John all agree that Jesus died on Friday. Another name for Friday is Preparation Day (Matthew 27:62; Mark 15:42; Luke 23:54; John 19:14, 31, 42). On this day, from sunset Thursday until sunset Friday, people got ready for the Sabbath. Jesus died late on Friday afternoon and was buried very fast before sundown.

During the Sabbath, the Lord rested in the grave. Jesus’ followers rested, too. “On the Sabbath day they rested, as the law of Moses commanded” (Luke 23:56, ICB). Their resting on Sabbath would be a strange thing to do if Jesus told them the Sabbath was no longer important, right?

On Saturday night, the women bought spices to put on Jesus’ body. On Sunday morning, they took the spices and went to Jesus’ grave. Of course, Jesus wasn’t there!

As early as a 100 years after Jesus woke up from the dead, Christians understood that His resurrection on Sunday morning was important. This Bible truth became the reason for their keeping Sunday holy. But does the New Testament teach this idea?

`What does Colossians 2:10–12 say is the New Testament sign that helps us remember Jesus’ resurrection?`

You will not find one verse in the Bible that says that the Resurrection is the reason we should keep Sunday holy. The sign that helps us remember Jesus’ resurrection is baptism. When we are baptized and come out of the water, we remember that Jesus woke up from the dead and came out of the grave. Paul writes this idea in these words: “So when we were baptized, we were buried with Christ and shared his death. We were buried with him so that we could live a new life, just as Christ was raised from death by the wonderful power of the Father” (Romans 6:4, ICB).

As Adventists, we must rejoice in the Bible truth that Jesus woke up from the dead on Sunday morning. Jesus’ death and resurrection are proof that He won the fight against sin and death. His resurrection is a promise. He will wake up His people from the dead and give them everlasting life.