---
title:  The Stone is Rolled Away
date:   23/09/2024
---

`Compare Mark 16:1–8 with 1 Corinthians 15:1–8. How are these verses the same?`

Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John all write about the Resurrection. As we saw, the Resurrection is the time when Jesus woke up from the dead. All four Bible writers tell the Resurrection story in a different way. Each story has the same ideas that we see in 1 Corinthians 15:1–8.

In all four stories about the resurrection of Jesus, we see the four same ideas: (1) Jesus died. (2) He was buried. (3) He rose. (4) People saw Him. In the book of Mark, chapter 15, Jesus died and was buried. In chapter 16, Jesus wakes up from the dead, and people see Him. Mark 16:7 talks about a meeting in Galilee where people go and talk with Jesus (read John 21 for more of this story.)

Some people think that Christians are crazy for believing that Jesus woke up from the dead. But the Bible gives us enough reasons and proof to believe.

First, when you believe that God made us (read Genesis 1 and 2), then it is easy to believe in the Resurrection. The God who made everything in the earth and skies, can wake Jesus up from the dead if He chooses.

Next, Jesus’ grave was empty. If Jesus’ body were in the grave, then His body would show that He didn’t wake up from the dead. Also, the Jews said that the reason the grave was empty was because Jesus’ followers stole the body. This explanation doesn’t work. The followers couldn’t sneak past the soldiers who guarded Jesus’ grave. Let’s imagine in our minds for a moment that the followers somehow got past the soldiers and stole Jesus’ body. Why weren’t the followers arrested for stealing it? The answer is because the Jewish spiritual leaders knew that the followers didn’t steal Jesus’ body.

Also, many people said they saw Jesus after His resurrection. Many people, including the followers, didn’t believe this story at first.

Finally, the people who started the Christian church said they saw Jesus after the Resurrection. Why would these people be willing to die for their faith if they knew the Resurrection was a lie? Their stories about Jesus, after His death (Acts 3:15) and years later (1 Peter 1:3), are powerful proof that Jesus woke up from the dead.