---
title:  The Women at the Grave
date:   24/09/2024
---

“The women who stood at Jesus’ cross waited and watched for the Sabbath to end. On Sunday, the women went very early to Jesus’ grave. The women took expensive perfume to pour on the Savior’s body. The women didn’t think about Jesus’ waking up from the dead. Their hearts were very sad. The women remembered Jesus’ mercy and His loving words. But they didn’t remember His words, ‘I will see you again.’ John 16:22 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 788, adapted.

`Read Mark 16:1–8. What happened in these verses? What did the women do at first?`

From the beginning of the book of Mark, the reader knows that Jesus is the Savior. But in the book itself, the first person who announces that Jesus is the Savior is Peter (Mark 8:29). (Of course, before Peter, there were demons inside of people who announced that Jesus was the Savior.) Peter’s announcement doesn’t happen until the middle of the book!

All through the book of Mark, Jesus tells people not to tell anyone who He is or to talk about how He healed them. In Mark 1:44, Jesus tells a leper, a man with a terrible skin disease, to tell no one that He healed him. In Mark 5:43, Jesus tells Jairus and his wife to tell no one that He woke their daughter up from the dead. In Mark 7:36, Jesus tells a group not to tell people about His healing a deaf man who has trouble speaking. Then Jesus commands His followers not to tell people that He is the Savior (Mark 8:30; also read Mark 9:9). For sure, Jesus asked them not to say anything so that He could finish His work for God on time when Daniel said He would (read Daniel 9:24–27).

The women run away from the grave after they hear the news that Jesus is alive. At first, they don’t say anything about what happened. But they are not silent for long.

At the end of the book of Mark, we read, “The followers went from there and preached everywhere. The Lord worked with them. The Lord showed that the Word of God [the Bible] was true by the special works they had power to do” (Mark 16:20, NLV). So, the big secret about who Jesus is is no longer a secret anymore. The book of Mark ends with the followers preaching everywhere.