---
title:  Jesus Shows Himself to Mary and Other People
date:   25/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 16:9–20. What do these verses tell us about the Resurrection story? Remember, the Resurrection is the time when Jesus woke up from the dead.`

In Mark 16:9–20, Mary Magdalene sees Jesus at the grave. Two men also see Jesus in the countryside. Then Jesus gives His 11 followers their work to do for His kingdom. Matthew, Luke, and John also write about the same things that happen in Mark 16:9–20. In Matthew 28:1, 9, and 10, Mary Magdalene sees Jesus at the grave (also read John 20:11–18; compare with Luke 8:2). In Luke 24:13–35, two men see Jesus in the countryside. In Matthew 28:16–20, Jesus gives His 11 followers their work to do for His kingdom (also read Luke 24:36–49; John 20:19–23).

The first person to see Jesus alive was Mary Magdalene (John 20:11–18). Other women also see Jesus (Matthew 28:8–10). Do you see that the first people to see Jesus alive are women? This information is very important. In Bible times, men didn’t respect women as witnesses. So, if someone made up the story about Jesus’ resurrection, then they would have said that men were the first witnesses to see Jesus, right? But that’s not what happened. Mary Magdalene, a woman, was the first witness. Not a man or one of Jesus’ 11 followers. Mary goes to tell the good news about Jesus to the followers. But the followers don’t believe Mary. Maybe they think the story isn’t real. Or worse, they may not believe her because she is a woman.

Bible thinkers who believe in the Resurrection story say that we can learn a lot from the women in this story. As we saw already, these women were the first people that saw Jesus. Anyone trying to make up the story would have said that Jesus showed Himself first to men. That’s what everyone would expect in those times. But Jesus surprises everyone when He shows Himself first to women. So, this information is powerful proof the story is not a lie.

`How does Mark write about the followers in Mark 16:14?`

Mark tells us things about the followers that make them look bad. Mark wouldn’t do that if he was making the Resurrection story up. Later on, the followers announce the good news that Jesus is alive. Their brave announcement is powerful proof that they are telling the truth.