---
title:  Go, Tell Everyone on Earth
date:   26/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 16:14–20. What did Jesus say to His followers when He appeared to them? What do His words mean to us today?`

Jesus scolds His followers for their hard hearts and for not believing His witnesses. We have the same problem today, don’t we? As we saw, the followers were with Jesus in person. Again and again, they saw the miracles that Jesus did. But the followers were slow to believe the things that He told them (Matthew 28:17; John 20:24–29).

Jesus convinces His followers that He is alive. He gives them strong proof that He woke up from the dead. Then Jesus tells His followers to share the Good News about Him. The followers must go everywhere on the whole earth and announce the Good News to all people. Jesus then explains what will happen when they do this work: people who believe will be saved. People who refuse to believe the Good News will be lost.

Jesus also talks about special signs His followers will do when they announce the Good News. They will cast out demons. His followers will speak new languages. They will heal the sick. In Mark 16:18, Jesus also promises to protect His followers from evil. Some people think this promise gives Christians special permission to pick up snakes that can kill them. But Jesus is not giving anyone permission to pick up deadly snakes. What Jesus promises is protection from evil when His followers do His work. Read the story in Acts 28:3–6 about how God protects Paul when a deadly snake bites him. Do you see that Paul is helping other people when the snake bites him? Paul does not pick up the snake as proof of his faith.

Of course, the Bible doesn’t teach that Christians always will be protected from hurt. Sometimes Christians will suffer for their faith. Then Christians must be patient. Their patient suffering is proof of their faith.

After Jesus talked with His followers, He went to heaven (Mark 16:19). He sat on the right side of God. This place shows that Jesus has full control over everything in heaven and on earth. God gave Jesus this control because Jesus won the fight against evil. Notice the last verse, Mark 16:20. The followers went everywhere. But they didn’t go alone. The Lord was with them. Jesus promises to be with us now as we continue the work they started.