---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   27/09/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘The Lord Is Risen,’ ” and “ ‘Go Teach All Nations,’ ” in _The Desire of Ages_, pages 779–787 and pages 818–828.

“Jesus is our hope of resurrection and everlasting life. [Remember, the Resurrection is the time that Jesus woke up from the dead.] Jesus can make anyone alive who is dead. Jesus also has the strength to give us everlasting life. ‘I have come so that people may live and that they may enjoy life to the full.’ [John 10:10, WE]. ‘Whoever drinks the water I give will never be thirsty again. The water I give will become a spring [place where water comes out of the earth] of water flowing inside him. It [the water] will give him eternal [everlasting] life.’ [John 4:14, ICB]. ‘Those [people] who eat my body and drink my blood have eternal [everlasting] life. I will raise [wake] them up [from the dead] on the last day.’ [John 6:54, ERV].

“Death is not something that Christians should fear or worry about. Jesus says, ‘Whoever obeys my word will never die’ [read John 8:51, 52, NIrV]. For Christians, death is the same as a dark, silent sleep that lasts only a second. When you die, you are hidden with Jesus in God. Then when Jesus “comes again, you will share in his glory [the praise and honor that Jesus will get].’ [Colossians 3:4, ERV].”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, pages 786, 787, adapted.

Many history writers don’t believe in God or the Resurrection. But they accept that many people saw Jesus alive after His death. Some people try to say that Jesus’ followers really didn’t see Jesus alive. They saw only His twin brother. Or the followers just imagined in their minds that they saw Jesus. Some people say that Jesus only fainted on the cross and didn’t really die. Another person says that aliens from outer space came down and stole Jesus’ body. (Read Clifford Goldstein’s Risen: Finding Hope in the Empty Tomb [Nampa, ID: Pacific Press, 2021].

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why do people say that Jesus’ followers lied about His waking up from the dead?`

`What proof of Jesus’ resurrection convinces you the most that He is alive? Share your reasons in class.`

`How important is the Resurrection to Paul? Read 1 Corinthians 15 for the answer.`