---
title:  The Return of Our Lord Jesus
date:   23/06/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “ ‘For as lightning that comes from the east is visible even in the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man’ ” (Matt. 24:27, NIV).

**Spiritual 20/20 Vision**

**Introduction**: Matt. 26:64; Rev. 1:7 

The Christian walk is a peculiar thing to most unbelievers. Christians “live by faith, not by sight,” but in a world that maintains the notion that “seeing is believing,” faith in God—an unseen and, therefore, unbelievable being according to the world’s standards—can come across as, well, ridiculous. To most people, sight means confirmation. In any court of law, an eyewitness or a physical piece of evidence aids an argument more than any attorney’s reasoning. Given that sight is so essential to living in this physical world, why is the Christian often denied this privilege?

When our Creator formed the earth, He bestowed Adam and Eve with perfect sight. Unfortunately, sin has marred our sight, not only in a physical way but also, more significantly, in a spiritual way. This impairs our ability to have faith in Christ. However, the Bible urges us to continue our journey in faith, and Jesus promises us that our faith will be rewarded with clear spiritual sight.

Matthew 26:64 states that we “ ‘will see the Son of Man . . . coming on the clouds of heaven’ ” (NIV, emphasis added), and Revelation 1:7 stresses that He “ ‘is coming with the clouds,’ and ‘every eye will see [H]im, even those who pierced [H]im’ ” (NIV, emphasis added). Both of these verses introduce a completely new perspective into the Christian walk. All of a sudden, the Savior that we know as our Creator is visible as our Redeemer. Whether sight means salvation or destruction, the Lord Jesus, on His return, gives all people the evidence, the proof, the final confirmation that He has come to take His faithful people home. From the beginning, Jesus has been guiding us, and in the end, He will be physically visible and will heal our spiritual blindness.

Oftentimes, we get discouraged in our everyday walk with Christ because we cannot physically see Him. However, our Creator acts as a Guide for the spiritually blind in a world of darkness. We are given divine encounters; still, small voices; Bible-inspired personal convictions; little and big miracles; and, most important, God’s Word. With this guidance from God, denying faith its place in our lives would be irresponsible.

Walking by faith may be considered silly in the world’s eyes, but when Christians attempt to stumble through a dark, sinful world themselves and fail, they realize that faith is a necessity. One day soon, our faithfulness will be confirmed, and Christ’s promise of being visible to the world will finally be fulfilled.

Every bit of doubt will be dispelled, and our living by faith will be rewarded with renewed 20/20 spiritual sight. Until then, daily hold the hand of the One who promises to guide you. He alone can provide the necessary vision to journey through a dark world to a land of eternal light.

_Lauren Waegele, Chattanooga, Tennessee, USA_