---
title:  Are You Ready?
date:   24/06/2018
---

**Logos**: Daniel 2; Matt. 7:21–23; 24; 25:13; John 14:1–3; Luke 21:34–36; Rom. 12:1, 2; Titus 1:16; 2:12, 13; 2 Peter 3; Rev. 1:7; 14:12; 22:12

**The Promise** (Dan. 2:35, 44, 45; Matthew 24; John 14:1–3; Rev. 1:7; 14:12; 22:12)

The hearts of the disciples must have quickened when Jesus said, “I go,” even though He also said, “ ‘Do not let your hearts be troubled’ ” (John 14:3, 1, NIV). The time had come for Jesus to return to His Father, and He prepared them for this separation with His promise to return for them at a later time. He had given them the assurance: I will come again. He had given them signs: wars, famines, earthquakes, signs in the heavens, persecution, disloyalty, deception. Jesus’ promise to return became more precious to His followers when they experienced the upheavals He had forewarned. “ ‘See, I have told you ahead of time’ ” (Matt. 24:25, NIV). Jesus let them know what would happen so that in the midst of their trials, they could continue to trust in Him.

**The Delay** (Daniel 2; 2 Peter 3)

The early disciples must have believed that they were living in the toenails of time as described by Daniel. Yet the mysterious stone has yet to strike the earth, and believers across two millennia have had to grapple with this long delay in Jesus’ promised return. Peter explains the delay by pointing out God’s different reckoning of time and His extensive patience (2 Pet. 3:8, 9). Ellen White says, “If the Master should come, so many would be found unready. God’s unwillingness to have His people perish has been the reason for so long delay.”*

**Preparation Needed** (Matt. 7:21–23; 25:13; Luke 21:34–36; Rom. 12:1, 2; Titus 1:16; 2:12, 13; Rev. 14:12)

Jesus did not give the signs of His coming to keep His followers in a state of anxiety. Rather, He gave the signs to strengthen our faith in Him and motivate us to prepare. Some Adventists think they are preparing by becoming fixated on the signs themselves. It is possible to be so focused on the events leading up to Jesus’ coming—natural disasters and political events—that we neglect to prepare to meet the Jesus who is coming by building our relationship with Him.

Other Adventists try to prepare by focusing on obedience—the characteristic of those who keep the commandments of Jesus—while they neglect the other descriptor in Revelation 14:12—keeping the faith of Jesus. This faith is developed through a study of His Word put into experiential practice in daily living.

Jesus gave us a formula to prepare for His coming: watch and pray. Yet, what are we watching? Never in history have people had so many distractions, so many demands on our time and attention. With computers in our hands and on our wrists, we have access to information, entertainment, and instant communication in a continuous stream around the clock. We need to evaluate the impact this has on our preparedness for meeting our Lord.

It is impossible to develop an authentic and deep relationship with Jesus without an intentional, continuous connection to Him through prayer, a daily surrender of self to His direction. This connection develops our faith in Him rather than reinforcing faith in ourselves or in possessions or other people. Such a connection hones our ability to hear His still, small Voice, who guides us into right living and self-sacrificing service. It develops our passion for Jesus and for lost people. It helps us not only to know Jesus but also to become more like Him. It prepares us for the end-time events.

A most frightening warning is found in Matthew 7. A group of people are deluded into thinking they are followers of Jesus. They claim the right to enter the kingdom of heaven based upon their performance of “good works,” implying that it is God who has given them the power to do supernatural things—pretty strong evidence. Yet Jesus refuses them admittance. He calls them lawbreakers, and, most significantly, Jesus says, “ ‘ “I never knew you.” ’ ” Further, in writing to Titus, Paul describes fake believers who deny through their actions the God they claim to know (Titus 1:16). He also describes the genuine believer who says no to what the world has to offer and practices self-control while waiting for Jesus to appear (Titus 2:12, 13).

It is time to take our spiritual temperature and then to invite Jesus to transform us through the renewing of our minds (Rom. 12:2). This way, He can prepare us to meet Him when He fulfills that promise given so long ago but still burning in our hearts today.

**React**

1. Reflect upon what you watch. Are the things that you give your attention and time to helping you know the Jesus who is coming soon?

2. What do you need to do or stop doing in order to go deeper in your relationship with Jesus?

3. Do you know Jesus well enough to trust Him no matter what happens in your life or in world events?

* Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2, p. 194.

_Kathy Goddard, Chattanooga, Tennessee, USAS_