---
title:  Keeping Our Eyes on the Prize
date:   25/06/2018
---

**Testimony**: 2 Tim. 4:6–8

“Through his long term of service, Paul had never faltered in his allegiance to his Saviour. Wherever he was . . . he had never been ashamed of the cause he was advocating. The one great purpose of his Christian life had been to serve Him whose name had once filled him with contempt; and from this purpose no opposition or persecution had been able to turn him aside. His faith, made strong by effort and pure by sacrifice, upheld and strengthened him.”1

In spite of the trials, Paul kept his mind and heart focused on his Savior. Earthly troubles were worth enduring because of the heavenly promises from Christ. Those who profess obedience to Christ will be tested as Paul was, but we will have the same blessed assurances that guided Paul.

“In the religious life of every soul who is finally victorious there will be scenes of terrible perplexity and trial; but his knowledge of the Scriptures will enable him to bring to mind the encouraging promises of God, which will comfort his heart and strengthen his faith in the power of the Mighty One. He reads: . . . ‘that the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. . . .’ The trial of faith is more precious than gold.”2

Many falsely believe that troubling times are a sign of God’s faithlessness. However, we must remember that Christ warned His followers that they would suffer for His name’s sake, yet that suffering was to be a badge of honor.

“Summon all your powers to look up, not down at your difficulties; then you will never faint by the way. You will soon see Jesus behind the cloud, reaching out His hand to help you; and all you have to do is to give Him your hand in simple faith and let Him lead you. . . . God gives you intelligence and a reasoning mind, whereby you may grasp His promises; and Jesus is ready to help you in forming a strong, symmetrical character.”3

**React**

`1. Is a lack of trials a blessing or a sign that we are living too comfortably?`

`2. How can we keep our eyes on Jesus in our hectic, fast-paced world?`

1. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 500.
2. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 578.
3. Ibid., pp. 578, 579.

_Brandon Beneche, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_