---
title:  Why Did Jesus Leave?
date:   26/06/2018
---

**Evidence**: Deut. 29:29; Rom. 1:17; 8:22; Heb. 10:35, 36

It’s one of the most emotionally pressing questions in the hearts of Jesus’ followers. Seventh-day Adventists have a good theological narrative that accounts for why He left and what He has been up to in the last two millennia since He made His cameo on this planet. But still, when I am alone and weary, it seems the metanarratives are not enough.

Why has He been gone for so long? Is He ever coming back, or are we all like Vladimir and Estragon waiting for Godot?1 Sure, it’s been great to exist, but I would much rather have had the Lord return a thousand years ago.

The answer to our hearts’ question begins with the primary Old Testament motif of the coming day of the Lord; this day was going to be a day of rescue and destruction,2 and just being a member of the covenant community didn’t entitle you to rescue. Israelites had to live a life of constant attentive engagement with the covenant of God—or as the Bible states: to have lived by faith.3

Further, in Hebrews 10, Paul speaks bluntly to his audience, which is wavering in the faith. He reminds them that the day of the Lord is a fury of fire for those who disdain the blood of the Son and encourages them to remember their earlier days when they suffered gladly because they knew they had a better and enduring possession (verses 35, 36). He then quotes the famous Habakkuk passage—the just shall live by faith—quoted also in Romans 1:17.

Only this time he lengthens the quotation to emphasize that the Coming One will come in a little while and not delay.

The Hebrew student will remember that the conjunctive waw translated as “but” is a fluid conjunction—able to be translated in multiple ways—and in this passage, it serves as a logical connection. Thus, the quoted text pushes that the Lord is coming without delay and because He comes, the righteous will live by faith: They will not draw back. They will live by faith and obtain life.

So yes, we do know why Jesus left, yet, we don’t know why Jesus has been gone for what seems like forever. Yet, we are certain that He will come without delay, and because of that—we live by faith.

**React**

`1. Have you ever struggled to believe that Jesus was still returning? If so, what was that like, and what did you find comfort in?`

`2. When was the last time you felt zeal and joy for suffering for Christ?`

1. Samuel Beckett, Waiting for Godot: A Tragicomedy in Two Acts.
2. Walter Brueggemann, Reverberations of Faith: A Theological Handbook of Old Testament Themes (Louisville, KY: Westminster John Knox Press, 2002), p. 46.
3. Ibid., p. 78.

_Bryant Rodriguez, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_