---
title:  God’s Transforming Work
date:   27/06/2018
---

**How-to**: 1 Chron. 16:8–12; Ps. 19:1; Matt. 28:16–20; Mark 10:45; Luke 6:38; Rom. 6:5; 12:2; Phil. 3:20, 21; 1 Thess. 5:17

In the beginning, God created us in His image. We were perfect in Him. Once Adam and Eve ate the forbidden fruit, however, we could no longer be perfect—our bodies and minds started to decay. Disease and death, once unknown to humanity, became commonplace.

God promised to send His Son so that He could one day transform all who love Him back into the creations that we were meant to be. God is already working to transform our hearts to prepare us for His return. In order to prepare for His coming, we must continually submit ourselves to God so that He can do this transforming work in us.

Step 1: Communicate with God. To have a relationship with God, we need to communicate with Him the way we would communicate with anyone else we care about. One way to do this is to pray constantly. God is always there, and He always wants to hear from us, even if we have only a moment to talk.

Another way to commune with God is by studying the Bible. God inspired the Bible so that we have a way to understand His character. The more we study, the more we know and the closer our relationship with God becomes. Just like prayer, Bible study can be done at many times and locations. Mor ning worship is one good option because by focusing on God at the beginning of the day, we can reflect on Him and our study throughout our work and activities. Another good way to commune with God is to go out into nature. God’s creation is one of the best reminders of His glory, and studying His Word while experiencing all He made for us draws us closer to Him.

Step 2: Share Him with others. We have been given the call to spread the good news of the Second Coming with the world. We can share our faith with unbelievers, serve the homeless, go on mission trips, or even give someone a simple smile. Even the smallest kind act can have a big impact on a person’s life and our own lives as well. Every time we share God with others, we are growing closer to Him so that He may transform us into His image.

**React**

`1. How can you find ways to be a more effective witness to others in your daily life?`

`2. What ways can you think of to keep yourself accountable for daily Bible reading and prayer?`

`3. How can sharing God with others prepare you for His coming?`

_Hannah Jobe, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_