---
title:  Cleaning the Cobwebs
date:   28/06/2018
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 24:6, 7; John 14:2; Phil. 1:6; 2 Tim. 4:6–8; Titus 2:13

Hospitality was a common occurrence in our household. Whenever my grandmother was planning to have guests over, we all pitched in to help prepare to recieve the guests into our home. As a small child, my job was to dust all of the furniture. Because I wanted to impress our guests, I performed my job with the greatest care. When the guests arrived at our home, I would smile with pride at the work I had done and hoped the guests also appreciated it. Jesus is much more than a guest coming into our homes.

Many of us have heard for our entire lives that Jesus Christ is soon returning. With the current events and the turmoil within society, it is easy to see that Jesus’ words are coming to fruition (Matt. 24:7, 8). In such tumultuous times, it is important that we are preparing our hearts and our minds not only to be able to withstand the difficulties of the last days but also to choose to live in a Christ-centered way.

So what does this look like? Often we feel the need to impress others with our accomplishments, our status, or even the way we dress. Social media has created an even greater facade. If there are imperfections, a few quick filters and edits will make us look incredible. We spend our time counting the comments and likes on our photos and posts, and we allow these to determine our identities. Meanwhile, the heart is sick and the spirit sicker. We pay no heed to our souls or to the state of our hearts. Cobwebs litter us internally; while God is preparing a place for us, we are not dusting our inner selves.

As we wait for the hope of Jesus’ return, He calls us to prepare ourselves by casting aside the things that hinder us from growing closer to God. We must be honest with ourselves about the things that clutter our lives. We must prepare our hearts as we would prepare our homes for a guest—wiping down and sweeping out the things that do not belong there. Let us cast those things aside, so that we can boldly go forward in faith. And God is faithful—He promises to free us from those habits and sins that bind us. If you are struggling to get rid of some cobwebs in your life, ask Him to help you.

**React**

`1. What struggles in your life would you consider to be spiritual cobwebs?`

`2. What has been your main focus in life? Have your goals been focused on daily living or your eternal life?`

`3. What changes do you need to make to refocus your life on heaven?`

_Alexis Christine Hartline, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_