---
title:  “Let Them See You”
date:   29/06/2018
---

**Exploration**: 1 Thessalonians 1–5

**Conclude**

In Paul’s first letter to the Thessalonians, he commends their dedication to Christ. The people of Thessalonica were Christians who dealt with suffering and persecution at the hands of both Jews and Gentiles, along with the dominating presence of false prophets. Despite many obstacles, they refused to compromise their established commitment to Christ. They disregarded the teachings of false prophets and remained faithful to Paul’s teachings as God’s word. But their faith exceeded mere words. Their lifestyles were clear examples of God’s love, with a message that stretched as far as Macedonia and Achaia. But in chapters 4 and 5 Paul is moved to remind the people that they must continue to live life in the present while keeping their eyes on Christ’s soon return.

We can learn a lot from the lives of the Thessalonians. We, too, live in a time of suffering and false prophets, awaiting persecution; but like the Thessalonians, our commitment to Christ should enable us to be examples of love, steadfastness, and faith to surrounding nations. Our faith should amount to more than mere words; we must exercise faith in our daily routines so that our lifestyles may represent what Christ has done for us and the future we look forward to at His second coming. In preparation for the Second Coming, though, we must not lose interest in our lives on earth.

**Consider**

- Listening to the song “Let Them See You,” from the album A Messenger by Colton Dixon. Meditate on the idea of allowing God to work in you so that when people look at you, they see Him.
- Exploring various ways to enjoy life while waiting on Christ’s return. Spend time outdoors enjoying creation, go on adventures with friends, travel the world, and witness to the people you meet.
- Finding fulfillment in relationships that will bring more individuals to the kingdom of God. Reach out to others so that they may have the opportunity to know Christ as well—even with a gesture as simple as a smile. Remember, you could be the only Jesus someone is exposed to.
- Writing a letter to God about what you have to let go in order to let Him in and making a promise to Him that you will allow Him to work in you.
- Using your various talents to reach out to people and assist in spreading the message of Christ to the world.

**Connect**

1. Matthew 5:16; Galatians 2:20; Ephesians 3:17; Colossians 1:27; 1 Peter 3:15.
2. Ellen G. White, To Be Like Jesus, pp. 9, 18.

_Sierra Kristine Emilaire, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_