---
title:  The God of Creation
date:  27/03/2022
---

`Read Psalm 100:1–3. What is the human response to the God of Creation, and why?`

In Genesis 1, the first message of the Creation account is “God.” We hear it in the translation: “In the beginning God” (Gen. 1:1). In the first line (Gen. 1:1), the word “God” is placed in the middle of the verse and is underlined by the strongest accent in the Hebrew liturgical, traditional chanting in order to emphasize the importance of God. The Creation text begins, then, with an emphasis on God, the Author of Creation.

The book of Genesis begins, in fact, with two different presentations of God. The first Creation account (Gen. 1:1–2:4) presents God as infinitely far from humans, the transcendent God, _Elohim_, whose name speaks of the supremacy of God. The name _Elohim_ denotes preeminence and strength, and the use of the plural form of the word _Elohim _expresses the idea of majesty and transcendence.

The second Creation account (Gen. 2:4–25) presents God as up close and personal, the immanent God YHWH, whose name many believe denotes closeness and relationship. The Creation text as a whole is, then, an implicit appeal to worship God; first, to be aware of God’s infinite grandeur and power, and at the same time to acknowledge our dependence on Him because He created us “and not we ourselves” (Ps. 100:3). This is why many of the psalms often associate worship with Creation (Ps. 95:1–6; Ps. 139:13, 14 [compare with Rev. 14:7]).

This twofold view of a God who is both majestic and powerful, and who also is close, loving, and in a relationship with us, makes an important point about how we should approach God in worship. Awe and reverence go along with joy and the assurance of God’s proximity, forgiveness, and love (see Ps. 2:11). Even the sequence of the two presentations of God is meaningful: the experience of God’s proximity and the intimacy of His presence follows the experience of God’s distance. Only when we have realized that God is great shall we be able to appreciate His grace and enjoy, in trembling, His wonderful and loving presence in our lives.

`Think about the vast power of God, who upholds the cosmos, and yet can be so near to each of us. Why is this amazing truth so amazing?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In the creation of man was manifest the agency of a personal God. When God had made man in His image, the human form was perfect in all its arrangements, but it was without life. Then a personal, self-existing God breathed into that form the breath of life, and man became a living, intelligent being. All parts of the human organism were set in action. The heart, the arteries, the veins, the tongue, the hands, the feet, the senses, the faculties of the mind, all began their work, and all were placed under law. Man became a living soul. Through Christ the Word, a personal God created man and endowed him with intelligence and power. . . .<br/>
Above all lower orders of being, God designed that man, the crowning work of His creation, should express His thought and reveal His glory. But man is not to exalt himself as God.—The Ministry of Healing, p. 415.

Through the psalmist the message was given to Israel, “Serve the Lord with gladness: come before His presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord He is God: it is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves; we are His people, and the sheep of His pasture. Enter into His gates with thanksgiving, and into His courts with praise.” Psalm 100:2-4. And of all who keep “the Sabbath from polluting it,” the Lord declares, “Even them will I bring to My holy mountain, and make them joyful in My house of prayer.” Isaiah 56:6, 7.—The Desire of Ages, p. 288.

In the name of Jesus we may come into God’s presence with the confidence of a child. No man is needed to act as a mediator. Through Jesus we may open our hearts to God as to one who knows and loves us.<br/>
In the secret place of prayer, where no eye but God’s can see, no ear but His can hear, we may pour out our most hidden desires and longings to the Father of infinite pity, and in the hush and silence of the soul that voice which never fails to answer the cry of human need will speak to our hearts.<br/>
“The Lord is very pitiful, and of tender mercy.” James 5:11. He waits with unwearied love to hear the confessions of the wayward and to accept their penitence. He watches for some return of gratitude from us, as the mother watches for the smile of recognition from her beloved child. He would have us understand how earnestly and tenderly His heart yearns over us. He invites us to take our trials to His sympathy, our sorrows to His love, our wounds to His healing, our weakness to His strength, our emptiness to His fullness. Never has one been disappointed who came unto Him. “They looked unto Him, and were lightened: and their faces were not ashamed.” Psalm 34:5.—Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, pp. 84, 85.