---
title:  The Sabbath
date:  29/03/2022
---

`Read Genesis 2:2, 3 and Exodus 20:8–11. Why is the seventh-day Sabbath related to Creation? How does this connection impact how we keep the Sabbath?`

It is precisely because “God ended” His works of Creation that He instituted the Sabbath. The seventh-day Sabbath is, therefore, the expression of our faith that God finished His work then, and that He found it “very good.” To keep the Sabbath is to join with God in the recognition of the value and beauty of His creation.

We can rest from our works just as God had rested from His. Sabbath keeping means saying yes to God’s “very good” Creation, which includes our physical bodies. Contrary to some ancient (and modern) beliefs, nothing in Scripture, Old or New Testament, denigrates the body as evil. That’s a pagan concept, not a biblical one. Instead, Sabbath keepers are grateful for God’s creation—which includes their own flesh—and that is why they can enjoy the creation and why they take care of it.

The Sabbath, which marks the first “end” of human history, also is a sign of hope for suffering humankind and for the groaning of the world. It is interesting that the phrase “finished the work” reappears at the end of the construction of the sanctuary (Exod. 40:33) and again at the end of the building of Solomon’s temple (1 Kings 7:40, 51)—both places where the lesson of the gospel and salvation had been taught.

After the Fall, the Sabbath, at the end of the week, points to the miracle of salvation, which will take place only through the miracle of a new creation (Isa. 65:17, Rev. 21:1). The Sabbath is a sign at the end of our human week that the suffering and trials of this world will have an end, as well.

This is why Jesus chose the Sabbath as the most appropriate day to heal the sick (Luke 13:13–16). Contrary to whatever traditions the leaders were stuck in, by the Sabbath healings Jesus pointed the people, and us, to the time when all pain, all suffering, all death, will be over, which is the ultimate conclusion to the salvation process. Hence, each Sabbath points us to the hope of redemption.

`By resting on the Sabbath day, how are we experiencing the rest and salvation that we have in Jesus now and that which will be fulfilled, ultimately, in the creation of the new heaven and new earth?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

By thus setting apart the Sabbath, God gave the world a memorial. He did not set apart one day and any day in seven, but one particular day, the seventh day. And by observing the Sabbath, we show that we recognize God as the living God, the Creator of heaven and earth.<br/>
There is nothing in the Sabbath that restricts it to any particular class of people. It was given for all mankind. It is to be employed, not in indolence, but in the contemplation of the works of God. This men are to do that they may “know that I am the Lord that sanctify them.”<br/>
The Lord draws very nigh to His people on the day that He has blessed and sanctified. “The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament showeth His handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge.” The Sabbath is God’s memorial, pointing men to their Creator, who made the world and all things that are therein.—Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers, pp. 136, 137.

“The importance of the Sabbath as the memorial of creation is that it keeps ever present the true reason why worship is due to God”—because He is the Creator, and we are His creatures. “The Sabbath therefore lies at the very foundation of divine worship, for it teaches this great truth in the most impressive manner, and no other institution does this. The true ground of divine worship, not of that on the seventh day merely, but of all worship, is found in the distinction between the Creator and His creatures. This great fact can never become obsolete, and must never be forgotten.”—J. N. Andrews, History of the Sabbath, chapter 27.<br/>
. . . So long as the fact that He is our Creator continues to be a reason why we should worship Him, so long the Sabbath will continue as its sign and memorial. Had the Sabbath been universally kept, man’s thoughts and affections would have been led to the Creator as the object of reverence and worship, and there would never have been an idolater, an atheist, or an infidel.—The Great Controversy, pp. 437, 438.

“Wherefore the Son of man is Lord also of the Sabbath.” These words are full of instruction and comfort. Because the Sabbath was made for man, it is the Lord’s day. It belongs to Christ. For “all things were made by Him; and without Him was not anything made that was made.” John 1:3. Since He made all things, He made the Sabbath. By Him it was set apart as a memorial of the work of creation. It points to Him as both the Creator and the Sanctifier. . . . The Sabbath is a sign of Christ’s power to make us holy. And it is given to all whom Christ makes holy. As a sign of His sanctifying power, the Sabbath is given to all who through Christ become a part of the Israel of God.—The Desire of Ages, p. 288.