---
title:  The Duty of Humanity
date:  31/03/2022
---

As soon as God created the first man, He offered him three gifts: the Garden of Eden (Gen. 2:8), food (Gen. 2:16), and the woman (Gen. 2:22).

`Read Genesis 2:15–17. What is man’s duty toward creation and toward God? How do these two duties relate to each other?`

The first duty of man concerns the natural environment in which God has put him: “to tend and keep it” _(Gen. 2:15, NKJV)_. The verb _‘avad_, “tend,” refers to work. It is not enough to receive a gift. We have to work on it and to make it fruitful—a lesson that Jesus will repeat in His parable of the talents (Matt. 25:14–30). The verb _shamar_, “keep,” implies the responsibility to preserve what has been received.

The second duty concerns his food. We have to remember that God gave it to humans (see Gen. 1:29). God also said to Adam that “ ‘you may freely eat’ ” (Gen. 2:16, NKJV). Humans didn’t create the trees—or the food on them. They were a gift, a gift of grace.

But there is a commandment here, as well: they were to receive and enjoy God’s generous gift “ ‘of every tree’ ” (NKJV). As a part of this grace, though, God added a restriction. They should not eat from one particular tree. Enjoying without any restriction will lead to death. This principle was right in the Garden of Eden, and in many ways, that same principle exists today.

The third duty of man concerns the woman, God’s third gift: “man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife” (Gen. 2:24, NKJV). This extraordinary statement is a powerful expression that highlights human responsibility toward the conjugal covenant and the purpose of being “one flesh” (NKJV), meaning one person (compare with Matt. 19:7–9).

The reason it is the man (and not the woman) who should leave his parents may have to do with the biblical generic use of the masculine; hence, perhaps, the commandment applies to the woman too. Either way, the bond of marriage, though a gift from God, entails human responsibility once the gift has been received, a responsibility that rests with both the man and the woman to fulfill it faithfully.

`Think about all that you have been given by God. What are your responsibilities with what you have been given?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Lord’s purposes are not the purposes of men. He did not design that men should live in idleness. In the beginning He created man a gentleman; but though rich in all that the Owner of the universe could supply, Adam was not to be idle. No sooner was he created than his work was given him. He was to find employment and happiness in tending the things that God had created, and in response to his labor his wants were to be abundantly supplied from the fruits of the Garden of Eden.<br/>
While our first parents obeyed God, their labor in the garden was a pleasure, and the earth yielded of its abundance for their wants.—Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students, pp. 273, 274.

God gave Adam and Eve employment. Eden was the school for our first parents, and God was their instructor. They learned how to till the soil and to care for the things which the Lord had planted. They did not regard labor as degrading, but as a great blessing. Industry was a pleasure to Adam and Eve. The fall of Adam changed the order of things; the earth was cursed: but the decree that man should earn his bread by the sweat of his brow, was not given as a curse. Through faith and hope, labor was to be a blessing to the descendants of Adam and Eve.—Fundamentals of Christian Education, p. 314.

God celebrated the first marriage. Thus the institution has for its originator the Creator of the universe. “Marriage is honourable” (Hebrews 13:4); it was one of the first gifts of God to man, and it is one of the two institutions that, after the Fall, Adam brought with him beyond the gates of Paradise. When the divine principles are recognized and obeyed in this relation, marriage is a blessing; it guards the purity and happiness of the race, it provides for man’s social needs, it elevates the physical, the intellectual, and the moral nature. . . .<br/>
The home of our first parents was to be a pattern for other homes as their children should go forth to occupy the earth. . . . God placed Adam in a garden. This was his dwelling. . . . In the surroundings of the holy pair was a lesson for all time—that true happiness is found, not in the indulgence of pride and luxury, but in communion with God through His created works. If men would give less attention to the artificial, and would cultivate greater simplicity, they would come far nearer to answering the purpose of God in their creation.—Reflecting Christ, p. 166.