---
title:  A Matter of Simple Honesty
date:   11/02/2018
---

One thing most of us have in common is that we do not like dishonesty. We especially do not like it when we see it manifested in others. It’s not easy, though, to see it in ourselves, and when we do, we tend to rationalize our actions, to justify them, to downplay their significance: *Oh, it’s not that bad; it’s only a small thing, not really important*. We might fool ourselves even, most of the time; but we never fool God.

“Dishonesty is practiced all through our ranks, and this is the cause of lukewarmness on the part of many who profess to believe the truth. They are not connected with Christ and are deceiving their own souls.” - Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4, p. 310.

`Read Luke 16:10. What important principle does Jesus express here that should help us see how important it is to be honest, even in the “little things” (NLT)?`

God, though, knows just how easily we can be dishonest, especially when it comes to the things that we possess. Hence, He has given us a powerful antidote to dishonesty and selfishness, at least when it comes to material possessions.

`Read Leviticus 27:30 and Malachi 3:8. What do these texts teach and how can what they talk about help keep us honest?`

“No appeal is made to gratitude or to generosity. This is a matter of simple honesty. The tithe is the Lord’s; and He bids us return to Him that which is His own. . . . If honesty is an essential principle of business life, must we not recognize our obligation to God - the obligation that underlies every other?” - Ellen G. White, Education, pp. 138, 139.

`How can paying tithe help you remember who, ultimately, owns all that you have? Why is it important never to forget who owns all our possessions anyway?`
