---
title:  The Life of Faith
date:   12/02/2018
---

`Read Genesis 22:1-12. What does this story tell us about the reality of Abraham’s faith?`

The life of faith is not a one-time event. We don’t just express faith in a powerful way one time, and thus prove that we are, indeed, loyal and faithful Christians living by grace and covered by the blood of Christ.

For example, the religious world still after thousands of years remains astonished at the act of faith displayed by Abraham with Isaac on Mount Moriah (Genesis 22). Yet, this act of faith wasn’t something that Abraham just conjured up when he needed it. His life of faithfulness and obedience beforehand was what enabled him to do as he did. Had he often been unfaithful before this event, he never would have passed the test as he did. There is no question, either, that a man with that kind of faith surely lived it out after the event as well.

The point is that the faith of a steward is not a one-time act either. Over time, it will either grow deeper and stronger or shallower and weaker, depending upon how the one who claims that faith exercises it.

`Read Hebrews 12:2. What does this tell us about the source of our faith and how to have faith?`

Our only recourse as faithful stewards is to look “unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God” (Heb. 12:2, NKJV). The word “finisher” is used only in this one instance in the New Testament and also can be translated as “perfecter.” It means that Jesus is intent on bringing our faith to maturity and completeness (Heb. 6:1, 2). Thus, faith, the life of faith, is a dynamic experience: it grows, it matures, and it increases.

`In what ways have you seen your faith grow and mature over time? Or has it?`
