---
title:  A Statement of Faith
date:   13/02/2018
---

As we saw yesterday, faith is a process, a dynamic experience that, ideally, grows and matures. And one way God is “finishing” our faith and bringing it to completeness is through the act of tithing. Rightly understood, tithe returned to God is not legalism; when we tithe we are not working or seeking to earn our way to heaven. Instead, tithing is a statement of faith. It is an outward, visible, personal expression of the reality of our faith.

After all, anyone can claim to have faith and to believe in God, and even to believe in Jesus. As we know, “even the demons believe” in God (James 2:19, NKJV). But to take 10 percent of your income and give it back to God? That is an act of faith.

`Read Luke 11:42. What does it mean when Jesus implies that tithing is not to be left undone? How does tithe relate to the weightier matters of the law?`

Tithing is a humble expression of dependence on God and an act of trust that Christ is our Redeemer. It is recognition that we have already been blessed “with every spiritual blessing in Christ” (Eph. 1:3, NIV) and a promise of more.

`Read Genesis 28:14-22. What was Jacob’s response to God’s promise?`

“God’s plan in the tithing system is beautiful in its simplicity and equality. All may take hold of it in faith and courage, for it is divine in its origin. In it are combined simplicity and utility, and it does not require depth of learning to understand and execute it. All may feel that they can act a part in carrying forward the precious work of salvation. Every man, woman, and youth may become a treasurer for the Lord, and may be an agent to meet the demands upon the treasury.” - Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, p. 73.

`In what ways have you discovered for yourself the true spiritual blessings that come from paying tithe? How has paying tithe helped increase your faith?`
