---
title: How to Enjoy Sex
date: 18/07/2021
---

#### inGest

Imagine what the conditions must have been in the Garden of Eden; or the Garden of pleasure. As God intended Adam and Eve to experience unbridled joy, let us consider what similar conditions are needed to enjoy fully any experience, but with particular application to sexuality.

No Stress

Adulting can rob us of that carefree exuberance that tends to amplify the intensity of pleasant experiences. Worry and its attendant stress are thieves of joy. And a preoccupied mind cannot fully assimilate the sexual encounter. In fact, anxiety and stress are major psychological factors in erectile dysfunction and infertility. So Christ’s invitation in Matthew 11:28, “Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest,” has ramifications for our sexual enjoyment. As we learn to trust God more and worry less, we are better able to enjoy the gifts He has given to us.

No Guilt

The purity and innocence mean that both entering and exiting every experience is not encumbered by negative emotions. Guilt and shame, whether prior to or after an activity, diminish the sense of satisfaction. Indulging in guilty pleasures can only ever be limited in the gratification it brings. When God forgives us (1 John 1:9) and gives us the strength to live in accordance with His will (Jude 24), He frees us to fully enjoy all the things He has permitted. Guilt-free sex is the most fulfilling sex.

Physical Vitality

Whereas a joie de vivre is not inaccessible to someone struggling with physical ailments, it certainly is more challenging to achieve. With respect to sexuality, one may intuit that greater vigor and stamina have a positive impact on sexual gratification. So John’s wish that you would “prosper in all things and be in health, just as your soul prospers” (3 John 1:2) has implications for sexual fulfillment.

Of those who have ever engaged in sexual intercourse, most have never experienced the fullness of its ecstasy potential. In fact, only two humans have ever experienced the most incredible sex. Before the fall, Adam and Eve were in perfect physical health, their consciences were clear, and they fully trusted in God. Conditions were optimal for physical pleasure and emotional satisfaction from the sexual act.

Everything that God is doing to restore humanity physically, emotionally, and spiritually, leads to greater sexual fulfillment. Ultimately, the greatest pleasure is attained when we are in perfect conformity with divine design. It is only God who can produce this conformity in our lives as we cooperate with Him (Phil. 2:12, 13).

` `