---
title:  God’s Promise to Save Us
date:   08/01/2023
---

Jesus’ death on the cross made God’s saving mercy possible for every person who lived or will live. But God’s promise to save us is not the same as His promises about the crops and no more worldwide Floods that we read about yesterday. God offers to save everyone. But not everyone will be saved. Of course, there are people who believe that everyone will be saved. But the Bible doesn’t teach this false idea. Jesus taught that His death on the cross was for everyone. But some people will choose to reject His offer to save them (Matthew 7:13, 14).

**How do people get the saving gift that God offers them in Jesus? How do the verses below help us answer that question?**

`1 John 5:13`

`Matthew 10:22`

`John 6:29`

`2 Peter 1:10, 11`

Paul understood that God’s saving promise has two parts: a part for God to do and a part for humans to do. Near the end of his life, Paul told Timothy in a letter that he did his part. Soon, Paul was going to be killed. Many of his friends left him. But Paul’s faith was strong: “My life is being given as an offering to God. The time has come for me to leave this life. I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. Now, a crown is waiting for me. I will get that crown for being right with God. The Lord is the judge who judges rightly, and he will give me the crown on that Day [the day Christ (Jesus) will come to judge all people and take His people to heaven to live with Him]. He will give that crown not only to me but to all those who have waited with love for him to come again” (2 Timothy 4:6–8, ICB).

Paul knows that God saves us by His mercy because of our faith. So, our good behavior has nothing to do with our being saved. Our faith in Jesus’ holy life saves us.

`What must we do to accept God’s saving gift of mercy?`