---
title:  To Obey With All Our Hearts
date:   09/01/2023
---

In the book of Deuteronomy, Moses tells God’s people again about all the wonderful things God did for His people in the past. Most of all, Moses shows Israel that God loves His people. God wants to take care of them.

`What wonderful blessings does God promise to people? What must the people do to get these blessings? Read Deuteronomy 28:1–14 for the answer.`

Moses was eager for God’s people to understand that God had wonderful blessings for them. God promised to do special miracles for His people, too. Moses starts by saying to the people, “ ‘Now, if you will be careful to obey the Lord your God and follow all his commands that I tell you today . . .’ ” (Deuteronomy 28:1, ERV). These words show that the people must be careful to do what God asks because their everlasting life depends on it. We also see that God makes us free to choose to obey Him. God chose Israel to be His special people. If the people obeyed God, He promised to bless them and give them many gifts. But first, Israel must accept God’s blessings and promises and live by them.

God doesn’t ask His people to do anything that is too hard. God says, “ ‘This command that I give you today is not too hard for you. It is not a secret hidden in some far away land. This command is not in heaven so that you should say, “Who will go up to heaven for us and bring it to us, so that we can hear and do it?” This command is not on the other side of the sea so that you should say, “Who will go across the sea for us and bring it to us, so that we can hear it and do it?” No, the word is very near to you. It is in your mouth and in your heart. So you can obey it’ ” (Deuteronomy 30:11–14, ERV).

Of course, there are blessings and warnings in God’s Promise.These warnings show God’s people everything that will happen to them if they don’t obey God (Deuteronomy 28:15–68). If God’s people sin and fight against Him, their evil behavior will cause bad things to happen.

`What does it mean for us today to carefully obey everything that God tells us to do?`