---
title:  Honor the Lord
date:   10/01/2023
---

`Read Proverbs 3:1–10. What wonderful promises do we find in these verses? Also, the Bible tells us to give God “the first share [part] of all your crops” (Proverbs 3:9, NIrV). What does this verse mean for us today?`

God makes us the managers of everything He gives us. God asks us, as His managers, to put Him first. He wants us to understand that everything we own comes from Him. We also must show God that we believe He will give us everything we need. God promises us that if we put Him first with our things, He will bless the things we have left. When we put God first, we show our faith and trust in the Lord. We show God that we love Him with all our heart. We don’t try to save ourselves. We don’t expect other people to save us or take care of us. (We need trust in God because so often things happen that we can’t understand.)

Jesus’ death on the cross should help us to trust in God’s love for us. Think about everything God gives you in Jesus. Jesus is the One who made us (Psalm 100:3). He also is the One who keeps us alive (Hebrews 1:3). Jesus is our Savior, too (Revelation 5:9). So, we should give to God the first share or part of everything we have.

“The Lord says that the tithe belongs to Him. [Tithe is 10% of all the money we get.] The Lord also tells us how we should separate the tithe for Him, too. The Lord says, ‘Honor the Lord with your wealth [riches; money]. Give him the first share of all your crops’ [Proverbs 3:9, NIrV]. This Bible truth doesn’t teach us that we are allowed to spend our money on ourselves and then give the leftover money to Jesus. First, we separate God’s money from all the money we get.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, page 81, adapted.

God says that if you put Him first, “your storerooms will be so full they can’t hold everything.Your huge [big] jars will spill over with fresh wine” (Proverbs 3:10, NIrV). Full storerooms won’t happen by magic. That is, you aren’t going to wake up some morning and find that your storerooms or barns are full all of a sudden.

What we must do is be good managers. The Bible gives us many important rules about being good managers. We must plan carefully and wisely. Then our “barns” or storerooms or savings accounts will be full of everything we need. We will have plenty, just as the Bible promises.