---
title:  The 10% Agreement
date:   11/01/2023
---

Did you know that there’s a close spiritual connection between the tithe we give God and our friendship with Him? Tithe is 10% of all the money we get. The Israelites were a success and had plenty when they paid tithe. But they had hard times when they didn’t pay tithe. During one of those hard times, God made a two-part agreement with His people. You can read about this agreement in the book of Malachi.

`Read Malachi 3:7–11. What promises and duties do you read about in these verses?`

God makes His people a promise. He tells them, “ ‘Come back to me, and I will come back to you’ ” (Malachi 3:7, ERV). When the people ask God what He means, He tells them to stop robbing Him of tithe and offerings. Their stealing was the reason why God cursed them. God tells His people how to solve the problem of the curse. “The Lord All-Powerful says, ‘Try this test. Bring one-tenth of your things to me. Put them in the treasury [storerooms in the temple]. Bring food to my house. Test [Give a test to] me! If you do these things, I will surely [for sure] bless you. . . . You will have more than enough of everything’ ” (Malachi 3:10, ERV). If we don’t have enough room for everything, then we have more than we need. We can use this extra to help other people and to support God’s work on this earth.

“God gave His only Son to die for you. This same God makes you a promise. God gives you His blessings. In exchange, God asks you to give Him your tithes and offerings. No person can say that he didn’t understand this agreement. Everyone can read about God’s plan for our tithes and offerings in Malachi 3. God asks His followers to honor the agreement He made with them.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, page 75, adapted.

Let’s look at one of the stories in the Bible when God’s people obeyed Him and started to keep this agreement. During the days of good King Hezekiah, the people turned back to God. They started to bring their tithes and offerings to the temple’s storehouse. The people brought so much that their gifts were piled high in the temple (2 Chronicles 31:5).

`Do you pay tithe? What does your answer say about your own spiritual life and your friendship with God?`