---
title:  Put God’s Kingdom First!
date:   12/01/2023
---

The Bible says, “Most of the people were glad to hear Jesus’ teaching” (Mark 12:37, WE). Many people in the large crowds who followed Jesus and heard Him preach were the same as you and I. Jesus fed the people on the mountainside. They heard the Sermon on the Mountainside. Jesus told them that He knew their needs. He knew they were worried about taking care of their families. Jesus knew they worried about getting enough to eat and drink daily. Jesus also knew they worried about the clothes they needed to stay warm. So, Jesus told them His plan for their lives.

`Read in Matthew 6:25–33 about Jesus’ plan for His followers’ lives. What promises does Jesus make? What does Jesus ask the people to do to get the things He promised?`

Many of God’s promises have two-parts. Our part and God’s part become one agreement. That is why we must do our part to get the blessing He promises.

`Read about the peace that God promises in Isaiah 26:3. What must we do to get this peace?`

`1 John 1:9 tells us that we must confess our sins. What will God do for us if we confess our sins?`

`Read about God’s plan in 2 Chronicles 7:14. What does God promise to do for His people? What must His people do?`

All these verses show us that God expects us to do our part in the worldwide war between good and evil. Sure, God doesn’t need our help to win this war. He is all-powerful. He is the One who made us. He keeps us alive, too. Our good behavior can’t earn us His mercy. We have nothing good inside us to give to God. But He wants us anyway. At the same time, God gives us free choice. So, we must choose to follow the Holy Spirit. We must obey God and do the things He asks us to do. Yes, God offers us blessings and life. But we can choose curses and death if we want. No wonder God says, “ ‘You can choose life or death. The first choice will bring a blessing. The other choice will bring a curse. So choose life! Then you and your children will live’ ” (Deuteronomy 30:19, ERV).