---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   13/01/2023
---

“Whenever God’s people follow His plan for tithes and offerings, God keeps His promise to bless them. [Tithe is 10% of all the money we get.] Then God blesses everything His people do. The more the people obey God, the more God blesses them. When God’s people do what He asks and honor Him with their offerings, God fills their barns with plenty. But when the people keep the tithes and offerings, they soon see that they robbed God. They also understood that they lost many blessings that God wanted to give them. God limits His blessings to His people only when they limit their offerings to Him.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 3, page 395, adapted.

The Bible tells us that we are saved by God’s mercy because of our faith. We obey God because He saves us. Our obedience doesn’t earn us God’s saving gift. (If we can earn this gift, then the gift wouldn’t be free, right? Read more about that in Romans 4:1–4.)

When we look at God’s two-part agreement with us, we can see both His promised blessings and the things He asks us to do. By our answer to God’s offer, we make our friendship with Him grow strong. We choose our future. Obedience means serving God because He saves us and because we love Him, too. Obedience shows we are the loyal followers of God. Faith doesn’t release us from obedience. Our faith permits God to give His mercy to us. God’s mercy helps us to give God the obedience that He asks from us.

**Discussion questions**:

`What if every Seventh-day Adventist gave all the tithe and offerings that God asks for? Then the church would have everything it needs to finish God’s work on earth, for sure. What are you doing with your tithes and offerings to help the church finish God’s work?`

`How important are our choices and our own good behavior in our friendship with God? Why is paying tithe and offerings part of being a good manager? Is it possible to earn God’s saving gift by paying tithe? How can we avoid this trap?`

`As we learned this week, hard times can come, even when we’ve been loyal to God. Why does this happen? How do we stop ourselves from feeling very sad and disappointed?`