---
title:  Different Functions of God’s Law
date:  20/08/2025
---

The law of God reveals God’s character, who He is. As God is holy, righteous, and good, so also is His law. Paul confirms: “So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good” (Rom. 7:12, ESV).

In the Bible, the law of God is seen in a very positive light (Matt. 5:17, 18; John 14:15; 1 Cor. 7:19). One may create poems on the law (see Psalm 119), sing about the law (Psalm 19), and meditate on it day and night (Ps. 1:2, Josh. 1:8). The law helps keep one from evil and gives wisdom, understanding, health, prosperity, and peace (Deut. 4:1–6; Proverbs 2; 3).

1.	God’s law is like a fence that creates a large free space for life and warns that—beyond a specific point—danger, problems, complications, and even death await (Gen. 2:16, 17; James 2:12).

2.	The law is also a signpost pointing to Jesus, who forgives our sins and changes our lives (2 Cor. 5:17, 1 John 1:7–9). In this way, it leads us as a paidagogos, a custodian/guardian, to Christ (Gal. 3:24).

`Read James 1:23–25. What is he saying, and how do these words help us realize what the function and importance of the law is, even though it cannot save us?`

A mirror can reveal your defects, yes. But there is nothing in the mirror that can cure them. The mirror points to the problems but offers no solution to the problems. It’s the same with God’s law. Trying to be justified before God by keeping the law would be like staring at the mirror in hopes that, sooner or later, the mirror will make your defects go away.

Because salvation is by faith and not by works—including works of the law—some Christians claim that the law is done away with and that we no longer have to keep it. Of course, considering that the law itself is what defines sin—“I would not have known sin except through the law” (Rom. 7:7 NKJV)—this claim is a gross misinterpretation of the relationship of the law to the gospel. The existence of the law is precisely why we need the gospel.

`How successful have you been in your attempts to obey God’s law? Well enough to base your salvation on it? If not, why do you need the gospel?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Lord Jesus came to our world to represent the character of his Father. He came to live out the law, and his words and character were daily a correct exposition of the law of God. His own personal example testified to the world, to angels, and to men that he was keeping the law of God, and was a standard and pattern to mankind. “In him was life; and the life was the light of men.” Jesus was a living manifestation of what the law was, and he revealed in his personal character its true significance, and showed it to be the only remedy for the existing evils, when it was set free from the rubbish of men’s traditions and maxims. As it was expounded by the scribes and Pharisees, it was misleading because misrepresented, and it perverted the characters of those who received the traditions and commandments of men.\
The Lord Jesus gave to men a representation of the character of God in his life and example. The law of God is the transcript of the character of God. And in Christ they had its precepts exemplified, and example was far more effective than the precept had been. Christ founded his kingdom upon the law of God, and those who followed Christ, imitating his life and character, were pronounced loyal and true to all God’s commandments. Jesus was a living illustration of the fulfillment of the law, but his fulfilling it did not mean its abolition and annihilation. In fulfilling the law, he carried out every specification of its claims.—“Christ the Impersonation of the Law,” Signs of the Times, March 14, 1895, par. 8, 9.

The plan of redemption is perfect in all its parts. It does not lessen the claims of the law of God in one jot or one tittle, in saving the sinner from the just penalty of the law. Through the provision of the death of God’s only-begotten Son in sinners’ behalf, the im­mutability of the law of God is demonstrated for time and eternity. Justice honors the law of God in providing a substitute for the transgressor; for Christ gave his own life a ransom in order that God might be just and yet be the justifier of him who believes in Jesus. The work of saving the lost through the merit of Christ magnifies the law, and harmonizes with every perfection of Jehovah. In the plan of salvation the highest honor is paid to the law of heaven’s government, and yet mercy is freely dispensed to the fallen sons of Adam. Every believing soul, cooperating with the Great Restorer, is blessed with heavenly grace and endowed with the richest treasures of the glory of God. The imagination can not picture anything more glorious than that which is attained through the plan of redemption. Well may we exclaim, “O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God!”—“Christ Revealing the Character of the Law,” Signs of the Times, January 2, 1896, par. 3.