---
title:  The Good News of the Judgment
date:  22/04/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Rev. 14:7; Ps. 51:1–4; Rev. 20:12; Dan. 7:9, 14, 26; Rev. 4:2–4; Rev. 5:1–12.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Saying with a loud voice, ‘Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come; and worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of water’ ” (Revelation 14:7, NKJV).

If the Bible was ever clear about anything, it’s clear that God is a God of judgment, and that sooner or later, in one way or another, judgment—the judgment so lacking here and now—is going to come and be administered by God Himself, “the Judge of all the earth” (Gen. 18:25; see also Ps. 58:11, Ps. 94:2, Ps. 98:9). Or, as Paul himself had written: “So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God” (Rom. 14:12).

Scary thought, isn’t it? Having to give an account of ourselves before God, the God who knows the deepest things, the God who will “bring every work into judgment, including every secret thing, whether good or evil” (Eccles. 12:14, NKJV)?

Yet, ultimately the judgment reveals the goodness and the grace of God and that He is both just and merciful in how He deals with the saved, and even with the lost.

This week we will explore the deeper themes of the judgment in relation to the great controversy raging in the universe, and we will look especially at what happens when God’s faithful people themselves face the inevitable “judgment to come” (Acts 24:25).

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, April 29._---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when He shall appear, we shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He is” (1 John 3:2). The heritage of the people of God is discerned through faith in the Word of God. “This is life eternal, that they might know Thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom Thou hast sent” (John 17:3).<br/>
Through faith the children of God obtain a knowledge of Christ and cherish the hope of His appearing to judge the world in righteousness, until it becomes a glorious expectation; for they shall then see Him as He is, and be made like Him, and ever be with the Lord. The sleeping saints shall then be called forth from their graves to a glorious immortality. When the day of deliverance shall come, then shall ye return and discern between him that serveth God and him that serveth Him not. When Christ shall come, it will be to be admired of all those that believe, and the kingdoms of this world shall become the kingdoms of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.—Faith and Works, p. 115.

For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil. Ecclesiastes 12:14.<br/>
The Lord is soon to come in the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory. Is there not enough comprehended in the truths which cluster round this event and in the preparation essential for it, to make us think solemnly of our duty? Distinctly and clearly this subject is to be kept before the people. “The Son of man shall come in his glory . . . and before him shall be gathered all nations” (Matthew 25:31, 32).<br/>
Present the truth that is needed in every church as the means to an end, and that end the judgment, with its eternal decisions and rewards. God will render to every man according to his work.—This Day With God, p. 296.

The final judgment is a most solemn, awful event. This must take place before the universe. To the Lord Jesus the Father has committed all judgment. He will declare the reward of loyalty to the law of Jehovah. God will be honored and His government vindicated and glorified, and that in the presence of the inhabitants of the unfallen worlds. On the largest possible scale will the government of God be vindicated and exalted. It is not the judgment of one individual or of one nation, but of the whole world. Oh, what a change will then be made in the understanding of all created beings. Then all will see the value of eternal life.—Letter 131, October 14, 1900, to Elder A. G. Daniells.