---
title:  Further Thought
date:  12/02/2021
---

“Only by the direct interposition of God could the shadow on the sundial be made to turn back ten degrees; and this was to be the sign to Hezekiah that the Lord had heard his prayer. Accordingly, ‘the prophet cried unto the Lord: and He brought the shadow ten degrees backward, by which it had gone down in the dial of Ahaz.’ Verses 8–11.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, p. 342.

“The visit of these messengers from the ruler of a faraway land gave Hezekiah an opportunity to extol the living God. How easy it would have been for him to tell them of God, the upholder of all created things, through whose favor his own life had been spared when all other hope had fled! . . .

“But pride and vanity took possession of Hezekiah's heart, and in self-exaltation he laid open to covetous eyes the treasures with which God had enriched His people. The king ‘showed them the house of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the precious ointment, and all the house of his armor, and all that was found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah showed them not.’ Isaiah 39:2. Not to glorify God did he do this, but to exalt himself in the eyes of the foreign princes.”—Pages 344, 345.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How is Satan like the Assyrian rabshakeh? Does he tell the truth when he says that you have sinned (Zech. 3:1)? How does God respond? See Zech. 3:2–5. What is our only hope against these accusations? Rom. 8:1.`

`Does Satan stop his accusations when you are forgiven? See Rev. 12:10. After you are forgiven, when Satan goes on saying that you belong to him because of your sin, what is the nature of his accusation? See Deut. 19:16–21 (law of a lying, malicious witness).`

**Summary**

In response to the cry of a faithful king, God saved His people and showed who He is: the omnipotent King of Israel who controls the destiny of earth; not only does He destroy those who attempt to destroy His people, He also provides opportunities for others, no matter how “Babylonian,” to become His people.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Sons and Daughters of God_, “He Is Near to All Who Call Upon Him,” p. 19;

_Reflecting Christ_, “Jesus Willed Us Peace,” p. 278.