### Managing for the Master Until He Comes

God wants to save sinners. He also wants to be their Friend. Sometimes we have a hard time understanding these two wonderful Bible truths. The Bible tells us, “The Father has loved us so much! God shows how much he loved us: We are called [named] children of God. And we really are his children. But the people in the world [who are not part of God’s church] don’t understand that we are God’s children, because they have not known him” (1 John 3:1, ERV). Or, as Ellen G. White wrote: “God names us His sons and daughters. . . . Can any honor we get in this life match this honor from God?”—God’s Amazing Grace, page 341, adapted. Sin is the reason we can’t understand this honor as much as we should.

So, we must be careful. We must behave in ways that help us remember Jesus. The Bible warns us about Satan’s tricks and the things he uses to get us to sin. “People who want to be rich have trouble. They get caught in a trap. They want many foolish things which are wrong for them. Because of this [trap], men are lost and punished for ever” (1 Timothy 6:9, WE).

The Lord gives us a way to avoid Satan’s money trap. God gives us advice about how to be good managers. God shows us in the Bible how to earn money and spend money wisely. More than 2,000 verses in the Bible talk about money and stuff. God tells us how to manage our money during hard times. God also tells us how we can honor Him in this life with everything He gives us.

In this quarter’s guide, we will study God’s plan for how we may serve Him with faith. We will learn how we can trust God so much that we will be loyal to Him even when we can no longer buy or sell. (Read Revelation 13:17.) Faith this strong doesn’t happen overnight. We must grow this faith by being wise managers of everything God gives us. Then we will be ready for any disaster or trouble that happens in this life.

God is the One who gives us everything. He owns everything in heaven and on earth. When we work with God, He allows us to manage His riches for Him. At the same time, God wants to give us more than money and riches in this life. God wants to free us from sin. God wants our hearts to be filled with His love. He also wants us to work with Him every day. So, we should give thanks to God for this wonderful honor. We should thank God because “God made us free from the power [kingdom] of darkness [Satan and sin]. And he brought us into the kingdom of his dear Son. The Son paid the price to make us free. In him we have forgiveness of [for] our sins” (Colossians 1:13, 14, ERV).

God’s advice to His children is: “Honor the Lord with your wealth [money]. Give him the first share [the best part] of all your crops” (Proverbs 3:9, NIrV). This advice is good wisdom to follow because we should honor God more than anyone and anything in this life. The Bible tells us that the angels in heaven honor and praise God above everyone and everything, too. “They say: ‘Our Lord and God, it is right for you to have praise and [honor] and power [control]. You made all things. They were made and have life because you wanted them’ ” (Revelation 4:11, WE).

Today, we live during very hard times. As Christians, we have hope. We see the signs that Jesus gave us to let us know that His coming is very near. We pray that these lessons will make your faith stronger. We hope you will learn to trust in God more this quarter. May these lessons also encourage you to be a wise manager for Jesus.

_G. Edward Reid studied at Andrews University, Loma Linda University, and Georgia State University. He is a pastor and lawyer. For many years he worked as a leader for the North American Division. He is an expert in how to manage money for the Lord._