---
title:  What You See Is What You Get
date:  04/07/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage:            Philippians 3:12–20 (15–17)

What You See Is What
You Get

Have you ever caught yourself doing or saying something exactly like your parents? Perhaps it was a certain tone or some physical gesture. It may be a common phrase or some subconscious facial expression. Children often vow never to be like their parents, but somehow there are these small, unintentional behaviors that trickle through. When we catch them, we either smile with reminiscence or with humorous disgust.

It is interesting that human behavior mimics that which it sees. This is not only related to parents and family members. Those obsessed with particular cultural icons find themselves moving, acting, speaking, and doing things like that person. In fact, it is not only cultural icons, but we subconsciously copy everyone around us. This is the basis for fashion, trends, shifts in language, media, music, art—the list goes on.

When it comes to Christianity, however, are there tones, gestures, words, actions, and characteristics that we should mimic? In this lesson, we establish that becoming a disciple is not only about thinking or doing things differently, but it is a change of identity. And when we are associated with the Lord Jesus as His disciples, our behavior, values, and character—all things—start to change from the mere action of seeing Him.

#### inScribe

Write out          Philippians 3:12–20 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write Philippians 3:15–17.  You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``