---
title:  The Holy Spirit and Living a Holy Life
date:   04/02/2017
---

### The Holy Spirit and Living a Holy Life

### Read for This Week’s Study:
1 Pet. 1:14–16; Isa. 6:3; Heb. 12:14; 1 Cor. 6:11; 1 Tim. 1:8; Ps. 15:1, 2.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Now may the God of peace Himself sanctify you entirely; and may your spirit and soul and body be preserved complete, without blame at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ” (1 Thessalonians 5:23, NASB). 

It’s easy to become insensitive to the holiness of God and not to think much about God’s revealed hatred of sin and evil. 

Holiness, however, is a crucial theme in the Bible. The pursuit of holiness, to become loving and pure like Jesus, should be a priority for every Christian. We are rightly appalled by the “I-am-holier-than-you” attitude. But, at the same time, we can easily forget what it means to live a pure and sanctified life. 

God’s love and His holiness inseparably belong together. Without God’s holiness, His love would be in danger of sentimentalism; without His love, God’s holiness would be stern and unapproachable. Both attributes, His love and His holiness, are foundational to His nature. 

The Holy Spirit is intricately connected with our pursuit of holiness. After all, His name is Holy Spirit, and He is called “the Spirit of holiness” (Rom. 1:4, NASB). His name reminds us that God is holy and that it is God’s great desire to make sinners into the image of His own holiness.

This week we will take a closer look at what it means to be holy and to live a holy life.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, February 11.