---
title:  Further Thought
date:   10/02/2017
---

#### Further Thought

Read Ellen G. White, “Like Unto Leaven,” pp. 95–102, in Christ’s Object Lessons. 

How do we even begin to grasp the holiness of God when our nature is fallen and corrupt and His is uncompromisingly holy? His holiness defines Him as singular and separated from the world of sin and death that we humans experience. Yet, here is the most amazing thing: God offers us the opportunity to participate in His holiness. That’s part of what a covenant relationship with Him is about. “ ‘Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say to them: “You shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy” ’ ” (Lev. 19:2, NKJV). Or, as the book of Hebrews says: “ ‘Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. . . . For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put My laws in their mind and write them on their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people’ ”(Heb. 8:8–10, NKJV). In these texts we can see the connection between holiness, covenant, and law. We cannot be holy apart from obeying God’s law, and we obey His law only as He Himself, the Holy Spirit, writes His law in our hearts and minds. What a sacred privilege is ours: “that we may be partakers of His holiness” (Heb. 12:10, NKJV), which we express by loving obedience to His law.

#### Discussion Questions:

`In class, go over your answers to the question at the end of Tuesday’s study about what you would tell someone who asked how to have the promises of victory over sin realized in their own lives. What would you tell them?`

`What does it mean to have God’s law written in our hearts and minds? Why is this different from having it written only on tablets of stone?`

`When you think of God’s holiness, what do you think of? Go around the class and let each person talk about what he or she envisions God’s holiness to be like. What does Jesus reveal to us about God’s holiness?`

`What is the foundation for our holiness? How is holiness achieved?`

`Earlier in the week, Wednesday’s study stated: “The law does not save us. It never can. The law is never our way to salvation. Rather, it is the path of the saved.” How does this sentiment help us understand what the role of the law should be for sanctified Christians in whom the Holy Spirit is working?`