---
title:  'God’s People: The Channels of Mission'
date:  11/10/2023
---

Throughout history, God has always had those who faithfully represented His character and, in obedience, followed His purposes. God’s people are those who have been called and who have accepted His invitation to be partakers of His grace. All of them have been—and continue to be—God’s instruments for the fulfillment of His mission.

`Read Genesis 12:1–3 and Deuteronomy 7:6, 11, 12. What was God’s original purpose for His people in the Old Testament?`

God’s covenant with Abraham and his descendants had a specific purpose. They were called, created, and commissioned to be agents of God’s mission—channels of blessings to the nations (compare with Deut. 28:10, Isa. 49:6). However, they were chosen within a covenant relationship with God, based on an implied conditionality of faith and obedience (Gen. 22:16–18; Exod. 19:5, 6; Deut. 28:1, 2; 2 Chron. 7:14). This process, that of attracting the surrounding nations to Israel, was God’s “mission strategy” in the Old Testament.

In the New Testament, God’s mission continues. The risen Lord and Savior now launches a renewed “mission strategy” (see Matt. 28:18–20, Acts 1:8) in which Christ’s disciples—who comprise the church—go out in mission to the whole world instead of, as with ancient Israel, the world coming to it. Mission did not originate with the church. On the contrary, the church exists because God still has a mission to be fulfilled and is using His church to fulfill it.

Yet, a question remains: What is the church’s mission? It is the same as that of the One who called the church into existence: “ ‘For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost’ ” (Luke 19:10, NIV). Though none of us in the church can save anyone, we can and must point others to the only One who can save, Jesus Christ.

“The mission of the church of Christ is to save perishing sinners. It is to make known the love of God to men and to win them to Christ by the efficacy of that love.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 3, p. 381. What a privilege and tremendous responsibility!

`Mission is to the church what air is to our lives. Without air, we die. Without mission, the church dies. What can you do, personally, to sustain the life of your church?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God had chosen Israel. He had called them to preserve among men the knowledge of His law, and of the symbols and prophecies that pointed to the Saviour. He desired them to be as wells of salvation to the world. What Abraham was in the land of his sojourn, what Joseph was in Egypt, and Daniel in the courts of Babylon, the Hebrew people were to be among the nations. They were to reveal God to men.\
In the call of Abraham the Lord had said, “I will bless thee; . . . and thou shalt be a blessing: . . . and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.” Genesis 12:2, 3. The same teaching was repeated through the prophets.—The Desire of Ages, p. 27.

“Ye are the light of the world,” Christ declares. “Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.” Matthew 5:14, 16. God’s work in the earth in these last days is to reflect the light that Christ brought into the world. This light is to dissipate the gross darkness of ages. Men and women in heathen darkness are to be reached by those who at one time were in a similar condition of ignorance, but who have received the knowledge of the truth of God’s word. These heathen nations will accept eagerly the instruction given them in a knowledge of God.\
Very precious to God is His work in the earth. Christ and heavenly angels are watching it every moment. As we draw near to the coming of Christ, more and still more of missionary work will engage our efforts. The message of the renewing power of God’s grace will be carried to every country and clime, until the truth shall belt the world. . . . But before this work can be accomplished, we must experience here in our own country the work of the Holy Spirit upon our hearts.—Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students, pp. 531, 532.

If the church of Christ were fulfilling the purpose of our Lord, light would be shed upon all that sit in darkness and in the region and shadow of death. Instead of congregating together and shunning responsibility and cross bearing, the members of the church would scatter into all lands, letting the light of Christ shine out from them, working as He did for the salvation of souls, and this “gospel of the kingdom” would speedily be carried to all the world.\
The cross of Calvary is to be lifted high above the people, absorbing their minds and concentrating their thoughts. Then all the spiritual faculties will be charged with divine power direct from God. Then there will be a concentration of the energies in genuine work for the Master. The workers will send forth to the world beams of light, as living agencies to enlighten the earth.—Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, pp. 42, 44.