---
title:  Prophecy and Scripture
date:   27/05/2017
---

### Prophecy and Scripture

## Prediction That Never Missed

2 Pet. 1:19–21

It’s on the TV—the weather forecast. Is it going to rain tomorrow or not? The weather forecasters will inform you what they predict will happen tomorrow. Statistics and a bunch of historical information are used to support their opinions. Sometimes it rains as forecast, sometimes not. Apparently, human predictions don’t always come true as expected.

**Prophecies written in the Bible will never miss.**

There are also many forecasts and predictions in the Bible, both in the Old and New Testaments. Jesus, who in His life on earth used imagery and figures in most of His speeches, also discussed a lot of what will happen in the future. One time when He went to Jerusalem at the time of the Jewish Passover, Jesus was in the temple and drove all the traders out. When they tried to accuse Him, Jesus replied to them: “ ‘Destroy this temple, and I will raise it again in three days’ ” (John 2:19, NIV). Although everyone thought it was an impossible thing to rebuild the temple in less than a week, Jesus actually prophesied that He would die and would be resurrected within three days—and He did just that!

Some of Peter’s writings are very similar to what Jesus had prophesied. They reflect the way of thinking that Peter had learned from Jesus. Because we are now in the end of days, Peter warns us to prepare ourselves that the end is near (1 Pet. 4:7), similar to what Jesus had said in Matthew 24:14. Within these days, there would be “scoffers [who] will come, scoffing and following their own evil desires” (2 Pet. 3:3, NIV) that we should be very aware of. Also we need to “ ‘watch out for false prophets. They come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ferocious wolves’ ” (Matt. 7:15, NIV).

Human predictions of coming events may fail. Forecasts will not always be fulfilled. However, prophecies written in the Bible will never miss. What we have learned indicates that the only thing to do is trust that it all will come true as written in the Bible. As we study further this week, the lessons from Peter can give more insights for us to understand.

_Osvald Taroreh, Jakarta, Indonesia_