---
title:  The More Sure Word of Prophecy
date:   28/05/2017
---

### The More Sure Word of Prophecy

1 Pet. 1:13; 2 Pet. 1:16–21

The epistle was written by Peter the fisherman, called to be an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ (1 Pet. 1:1). He was impulsive, forward, and selfconfident, yet he was a true, loving, and faithful disciple. He was one of the most colorful in character of all the disciples, and one with whom a good many of us more readily relate in our inner and outer conflicts of personal discipline.

**[Peter] was one of the most colorful in character of all the disciples.**

How did the prophets gain their wisdom? How much did they understand of what they wrote? How is our understanding different from that of the prophets (1 Pet. 1:12, 13)? What are some things that Peter says the Bible is not (2 Pet. 1:16, 20, 21)? That it is (verses 19, 21)? What do you learn about how the Bible came to us (verses 20, 21)?

Peter reminds us that all Scripture is inspired by God. This does not allow us to decide which parts of Scripture are inspired by God and which are human inventions. But what does it mean for it to be inspired, or “Godbreathed”? The phrase “inspired by God” (2 Tim. 3:16, NASB) is translated from the Greek theopneustos. We can look back to Adam for a clue. Adam, the first man, was “God breathed,” meaning that God literally breathed life into him. Thus, Adam’s life was God inspired; it is the reason he became a living soul. That’s why the Bible is called the Living Word of God. It has power to convict, correct, and instruct us in how to grow into the fullness of God.

2 Peter 1:19–21 defines the gift of prophecy. It is the act of speaking authoritatively for God, either by foretelling future events or declaring God’s will. Foretelling is not essential to the nature of a prophet; neither are all prophetic utterances considered predictions. Some utterances may be warnings or counsel given to the prophets, inspired by the Holy Spirit. A prophet may speak of the past, present, or future.

**REACT**

`1. Like the prophecies of the past, is it possible for us now to get prophecies from God of what’s going to happen in the latter days?`
`2. We believe that Ellen White’s writings are gifts of prophecy from God for us. How can we practically introduce this to others who do not have the same belief as we do?`

_Ronie Panambunan, Bekasi, Indonesia_