---
title:  The Morning Star in Our Hearts
date:   29/05/2017
---

### The Morning Star in Our Hearts

Isa. 5:20; John 1:5; Eph. 5:8; Rev. 2:28; 22:16

**Living in the Dark (Gen. 1:2; Job 3:5; 30:26, 27; Prov. 2:13)**

In the Bible, darkness is associated with conditions without life (Gen. 1:2), the consequences of rebellion against God (Exod. 10:21), turning away from Him (Prov. 2:13), death (Job 3:5; 10:21; Ps. 107:10, 14), or an unpleasant condition encountered by the people of God (Job 30:26, 27; Ps. 143:3). The first three associations are the consequences of the absence of God, while the last association happens to God’s people even though they have a close relationship with Him. Those verses describe how darkness can be encountered by anyone, whether they are righteous or wicked, whether they choose it or not.

**The night of weeping shall cease, and Jesus shall turn it into joyful morning.**

Regardless of who is experiencing it, being in darkness is unpleasant, inconvenient, and uncomfortable. God Himself sees that it is better for humankind to have light (Gen. 1:3, 4). Therefore, He took the initiative to give light to illuminate those who are in darkness that they may come out of it. Are you in the dark because of your choices? Or are you in the dark because of the enemies of your soul, as experienced by Job and David (Job 30:26, 27; Ps. 143:3)?

**From Darkness to Light (Gen. 1:2–4; Exod. 19:4–6; 1 Pet. 2:9)**

Before God started the order of creation, the earth was “without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep” (Gen. 1:2). So God took the initiative to create light at the beginning of the first week. As light came into existence and dispelled darkness, God saw that the light was good (Gen. 1:3, 4).

Wherever darkness exists, God always takes the initiative to bring light. The people of Israel were in darkness when they were slaves in Egypt, before God brought them out to make them a special people for Him (Exod. 19:4–6). It became an analogy of how God calls His people, the spiritual Israel, “out of darkness into his marvellous light” to be His special people (1 Pet. 2:9).

We might have chosen to rebel against Him or put Him out of our consideration, thus living in the darkness. We might have made a wrong decision in the past, causing our conscience to be darkened. We might be in unfortunate circumstances, facing bitterness, disappointment, or unavoidable bad situations. No matter how thick the darkness we are in, God is delighted to give us light and to bring us “out of darkness into his marvellous light.”

**Christ—the Light (Ps. 119:105; Isa. 42:16; John 1:14; 2 Pet. 1:19)**

To those who are in darkness, God gives His Word to be a “lamp unto [our] feet, and a light unto [our] path” (Ps. 119:105). To show to humanity the Living Word of God, Jesus Himself “became flesh and dwelt among us” (John 1:14, NKJV). He is the true Light who can dispel our darkness. Long before Christ was incarnated, the prophet Isaiah prophesied that He would be “ ‘a light for the Gentiles, that [His] salvation may reach to the ends of the earth’ ” (Isa. 49:6, NIV). Further, Christ would “open the blind eyes,” bring “them that sit in darkness out of the prison house” (Isa. 42:7), and make “darkness light before them, and crooked things straight” (verse 16).

As the prophecies had been fulfilled in the life of Jesus, Peter points out that we should take heed of the sure word of prophecies as “light that shines in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in [our] hearts” (2 Pet. 1:19, NKJV). To those of us in darkness, Peter urges us to focus our eyes on Jesus, the One who fulfills all the prophecies in the Old Testament. Through this verse, Peter shows us the progress of light.

While we are in darkness, we must not let it take away our vigor of life. But God takes the initiative to give just enough light to guide us on “the path of the just,” which “is like the shining sun, that shines ever brighter unto the perfect day” (Prov. 4:18, NKJV). When God gives us a little light, we must keep it, heed it, turn our eyes from the current situation toward the light revealed through His words. We must cleave to it and devote our thoughts and efforts on it. For sure, that small light will turn out to be the Morning Star and the Sun of Righteousness. The night of weeping shall cease, and Jesus shall turn it into joyful morning.

Christ the Bright and Morning Star shall give light to our darkened hearts and consciences. He, who starts the new day, shall give us new life if we take heed through His words. As the Sun rises and the day dawns in our hearts and lives, He shall bring healing to us. Darkness is turned into light, night into day, and mourning into joy. It is with one purpose that we must “ ‘let [our] light shine before others, that they may see [our] good deeds and glorify [our] Father in heaven’ ” (Matt. 5:16, NIV).

**REACT**

`1. What choices or circumstances might have caused you to live in darkness?`

`2. What hinders you from allowing Christ to shine in your heart and dispel darkness?`

`3. In what way can you let the light shine in you that others may praise and glorify God?`

_Elvis Sumanti, Airmadidi, Sulawesi Utara, Indonesia_