---
title:  Christ and His Gospel Are the Center
date:   30/05/2017
---

### Christ and His Gospel Are the Center

1 Pet. 1:10–12

“Peter in preaching Christ had produced his evidence from the Old Testament. Stephen had pursued the same course. And Paul also in his ministry appealed to the scriptures foretelling the birth, sufferings, death, resurrection, and ascension of Christ. By the inspired testimony of Moses and the prophets he clearly proved the identity of Jesus of Nazareth with the Messiah and showed that from the days of Adam it was the voice of Christ which had been speaking through patriarchs and prophets.”1

**“What a lesson to the people of God in the Christian age!”**

“The great work of the gospel is not to close with less manifestation of the power of God than marked its opening. The prophecies which were fulfilled in the outpouring of the former rain at the opening of the gospel are again to be fulfilled in the latter rain at its close. Here are ‘the times of refreshing’ to which the apostle Peter looked forward when he said: ‘Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord; and He shall send Jesus.’ Acts 3:19, 20.”2

“Peter says: Of this salvation ‘the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you: searching what, or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify, when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ, and the glory that should follow. Unto whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister.’ 1 Peter 1:10–12. What a lesson to the people of God in the Christian age! Those holy men of God ‘inquired and searched diligently’ concerning revelations given for generations yet unborn. What a rebuke to the world-loving indifference which is content to declare that the prophecies cannot be understood.”3

**REACT**

`1. Why is it always important to focus our minds on Jesus and the Gospels while discussing prophecies?`

`2. How can we teach younger generations how to know and understand end-of-days prophecies while they are enjoying their youth?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 221, 222.</sup>
<sup>2. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 611, 612.</sup>
<sup>3. Ellen G. White, From Here to Forever, p. 214.</sup>

_Darryl Timothy, Jakarta, Indonesia_