---
title:  The Sun Is Rising
date:   31/05/2017
---

### The Sun Is Rising

2 Pet. 1:19

One of the oldest adages found in English says, “You can lead a horse to water, but you can’t make it drink.” This aphorism is certainly true in the Christian life. A person can easily adopt the activities of Christianity, such as going to church, singing Christian songs, owning a Bible, or even memorizing its verses. But having true faith in a saving relationship with Christ is altogether a different object.

**The light of God’s glory . . . broke through the veil of darkness in Peter’s heart.**

Peter conversed, dined, and journeyed with Jesus for some time. He witnessed Christ’s miracles and was even willing to die with his Master. Despite his close association with Jesus, Peter did not develop a genuine faith prior to his true conversion. His lack of such faith yielded confidence more toward self and less toward God. When he finally denied Jesus three times, the Savior’s grief over Peter’s self-sufficiency brought him to repentance. Only here, “Peter had come to the turning point, and bitterly did he repent his sin. . . . Now his self-confidence was gone.”1

The cock crowing signaled that it was dawn and the sun was rising. As the light of the sun penetrated the darkness of night, the light of God’s glory from Christ’s countenance broke through the veil of darkness in Peter’s heart. Through this light, he was able to see his own wretchedness.

Peter followed the teachings of the Scriptures. But all availed him nothing until the Daystar rose in his heart, and Christ revealed to him his mistakes. Through genuine faith, Peter had confidence in himself no more but rather had complete confidence in God. “When men see their own nothingness, they are prepared to be clothed with the righteousness of Christ.”2

By taking heed of the Word and allowing the Author, Jesus Christ the Daystar and the Sun of Righteousness, to rise in our hearts, we will have genuine repentance like Peter. Christ then will work His faith in us—a faith that will undo trust in self and turn it upon God.

**REACT**

`1. Do you desire to have a life-changing experience like Peter?`
`2. What would signify that the Sun has risen in a person’s heart?`
`3. What kind of faith do we expect to come upon by reading the Bible?`

_Ramon J. Tengkano, Jakarta, Indonesia_