---
title:  “Follow Me”
date:   01/06/2017
---

### “Follow Me”

2 Pet. 1:16–21

A BBC TV series in the 1980s was called Follow Me! It was a program that helped its viewers to learn the English language through practical, dayto- day conversation. The program was quite a hit and had many followers in many countries. What caused people to enjoy this program? Was it the cool British accents? Or the well-crafted story lines?

People become fans and follow something or someone for many different reasons. The reason can be strong and sensible, but it can be weak and impractical; and in some cases, people may do it for a totally unexpected reason. We can easily see how people are influenced through social media and their reactions to something that they see, hear, or believe in.

**Some do not care about what’s going on around them.**

Followers play an important role that sometimes is more important than that of the leader. Barbara Kellerman, in her book Followership, divides the types of followers into five categories: (1) the isolates, who have limited or no knowledge of the leader; (2) the bystanders, who know what is going on but choose to not participate; (3) the participants, who are engaged in some way; (4) the activists, who feel strongly about their leader and act accordingly; and (5) the diehards, who are willing to risk everything for their leader.

The same characteristics can also be seen in those who follow Jesus. We can easily see them around us and even in the church. Some do not care about what’s going on around them, while others prefer to stand to the side and observe. Some like to participate and support (or oppose) their leader and organizations. Some are eager and full of energy, and some are deeply devoted to their leaders and are prepared to go down for their cause.

Peter and Paul wrote confidently and with certainty about Jesus. They strongly believed in Him and His teachings. Jesus’ message to us is very clear. The same message that was repeatedly given to Peter before us also applies to us today: “Feed My sheep.”

**REACT**

`1. How about us today? We are not as lucky as Peter, who directly interacted with Jesus when He was on earth. Will we follow?`
`2. What is our challenge today? How can we help take care of Jesus’ sheep and influence them to follow Him?`

_Gilbert Sigar, Jakarta, Indonesia_