---
title:  Following the Morning Star
date:   02/06/2017
---

### Following the Morning Star

Rev. 2:28; 22:16

**CONCLUDE**

In a world of uncertainty, Peter had found the one thing he could base his life on. He met Jesus; He followed Jesus; He was forgiven by Jesus; and He was commissioned by Jesus. But he also found Jesus throughout the Bible. The word of the Hebrew prophets testified to who Jesus was, what He had done, and what He will do. So Peter could testify from personal experience that the Word of God had been and will be fulfilled. Amid the uncertainty of our world, Peter recommends this same assurance to us, an assurance found in Jesus and in the Word of God that testifies of Him and gives us hope in Him.

**CONSIDER**

- Collecting weather forecasts, perhaps from a local newspaper, each day for a week. Compare the predicted weather with the actual weather as it happens. How accurate are these weather predictions? Find out what you can about how the weather is forecast and why the forecasts might have varied during the week.
- Asking a Pathfinder leader or other experienced outdoorsperson in your church to show you how the stars can be used for navigation. How is this a symbol of Jesus as our Morning Star?
- Writing a sermon in the style of Peter’s sermon in Acts 2:14–40. If you had a group of curious people outside your home or church asking why you believe and are excited about Jesus, how would you explain your faith in a context that would make sense to people in your community?
- Reading through the various biblical references to light and darkness explored in Monday’s lesson. Create a work of art, using a medium of your choice, to illustrate one or more of these light-and-dark images.
- Attending a church business meeting, and, if the opportunity arises, asking how your church can make Jesus more central to everything the church does.

**CONNECT**

1. Matthew 16:13–20; Acts 2:14–41.
2. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chap. 3, “ ‘The Fullness of the Time’ ”; The Great Controversy, chap. 22, “Prophecies Fulfilled”; Steps to Christ, chap. 10, “ A Knowledge of God.”
3. Bryan Ball, Can We Still Believe the Bible? (Signs Pub., 2014), chap. 6, “Prophecy Speaks.”
4. Lee Strobel, The Case for Christ (Zondervan, 2013), chap. 10, “The Fingerprint Evidence.”

_Nathan Brown, Melbourne, Australia_