---
title:  A Quick Look At Special Agreements In The Bible
date:  03/04/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 9:15; Isaiah 54:9; Genesis 12:1–3; Galatians 3:6–9, 29; Exodus 6:1–8; Jeremiah 31:33, 34.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘So now I tell you to obey my commands and keep my agreement. So if you do this, you will be my own special people. The whole world [the earth and everything in it] belongs to me, but I am choosing you to be my own special people’ ” (Exodus 19:5, ERV).

LAST WEEK, we studied how sin started. This week, we will look at the topic that will be our study for the whole quarter. We will take a short look at the first agreements that God made with His people in the Old Testament. Each of these agreements shows us present truth. Present truth is the truth people need most for their time. All the Old Testament agreements show us the Cross. At the cross, Jesus makes a New Agreement with His people. Jesus promises to save His people from sin. His blood shows us that He will keep His promise. As Christians, we enter into this New Agreement with God by our faith in the blood of Jesus.

Each day this week, we will look at a different agreement in the Old Testament. We will start with the agreement that God made with Noah to save him and his family from the Flood. Then we will look at the agreement God made with Abraham. This agreement is full of promise for us all. Next, we will look at the agreement at Sinai. Finally, we will finish with a look at the New Agreement.