---
title:  The Basic Parts Of Any Bible Agreement 
date:  04/04/2021
---

**‘And I will keep My agreement between Me and you. I will give you many children’ ” (Genesis 17:2, NLV).**

“The Hebrew word written as ‘agreement’ is ‘berith.’ ‘Berith’ shows up 287 times in the Old Testament. ‘Berith’ also can be written as ‘covenant.’ Covenant is another word for the special agreement between God and His people. ‘Berith’ also can be written as ‘will.’ A will is a special legal paper. This legal paper shows what someone wants done with his property and money after he dies. No one really knows for sure where the word ‘berith’ came from. In the Bible, ‘berith’ means ‘something that joins two people or groups together.’ ‘Berith’ is the name for many different contracts between humans and also between humans and God. In the Bible, ‘berith’ often showed the agreement made between two males. ‘Berith’ also showed a religious agreement between God and man. This religious agreement was really a word picture. It showed the same things as an agreement between two humans. But the religious agreement had a deeper meaning.”—J. Arthur Thompson, “Covenant (OT),” The International Standard Bible Encyclopedia, new edition (Grand Rapids, MI: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1979), volume 1, page 790, adapted.

A husband and wife promise to love each other and be loyal to each other when they get married. In the same way, a Bible agreement also shows us things about the people who make the agreement: (1) their connection to each other and (2) the promises they make. This second part of the Bible agreement has three basic parts. They are:

1. An Oath. God says an oath, or special promise. His oath shows that He accepts the agreement (Galatians 3:16; Hebrews 6:13, 17).

2. Obedience. Humans also have a part to do too. They agree to obey the law of God (Deuteronomy 4:13).

3. Proof. God gives proof that He will keep His part of the agreement. The proof He gives is Jesus. God will send Jesus to die on the cross to save humans from sin (Isaiah 42:1, 6).

`Look at the three parts above: the promises of God, our obedience, and Jesus. How do you see these three things at work in your own life right now?`