---
title:  The Special Agreement With Noah 
date:  05/04/2021
---

**‘I will make a special agreement with you. You, your wife, your sons, and their wives will all go into the boat’ ” (Genesis 6:18, ERV).**

The first time we see the words “special agreement” in the Bible are in Genesis 6:18. What is happening in this chapter? God tells Noah that He will destroy the earth because sin has become so bad. But God is not going to turn away from the human family. God offers Noah the chance to accept a special agreement with Him. God offered Adam the same chance after he sinned. God also promises to protect the family members of Noah who agree to love and obey Him.

`Does God do all the work in this special agreement? Remember, a special covenant in the Bible always includes more than one person. Is there anything Noah must do? What lesson do we learn from the answer to these questions?`

God tells Noah that He will send a Flood. The earth will be destroyed. But God makes a deal with Noah first. God promises to save Noah and his family. In a way, Noah takes a big risk trusting God. What if God does not keep His promise? Then nothing Noah does to save himself or his family will matter. They will all die in the Flood with the rest of the people on the earth.

`God says He will make a “special agreement” with Noah. The words “special agreement” tell us that the person who makes a promise will not break it. So, a special agreement is not an empty promise. The words “special agreement” show us that God will do what He says He will do. What if “special agreement” did not have this strong meaning of someone who keeps his promises? How will that change what God says to Noah in Genesis 6:18? It will change His words a lot, right? What if God says to Noah, “Look, I am going to destroy the whole earth with water. Maybe I will save you. Or maybe I will not. In the meantime, do everything right, and then we will see what happens. But I am not making you any promises.” Do you think these words will make Noah feel safe? Not at all! They do not show us the feeling of safety and trust that we are meant to feel when we read the words “special agreement.” That is why these two words are so powerful. They show us that we can trust God to keep His promises.`