---
title:  The Agreement With Abram 
date:  06/04/2021
---

**‘I will bless those [people] who bless you, and I will curse those [people] who curse you. I will use you to bless all the people on earth’ ” (Genesis 12:3, ERV).**

`Read Genesis 12:1–3. List the promises that God makes to Abram.`

`Look at this powerful promise that God makes to Abram: “ ‘I will use you to bless all the people on earth’ ” (Genesis 12:3, ERV). What does this promise mean? How does God use Abram to bless all the people on the earth? For the answer, read Galatians 3:6–9. How is Genesis 12:3 a promise about Jesus the Savior (read Galatians 3:29)?`

In Genesis 12:1–3, God shows Himself to Abram for the first time that we know about. God promises to be the Friend of Abram. God says they will have a close, lifelong friendship. God promises all these things to Abram before He even talks about their making a special agreement. God will talk about a special agreement later (read Genesis 15:4–21; Genesis 17:1–14). For now, God offers Abram His friendship. This is a surprising offer. Think about it. A sinner gets the chance to be close, personal friends with the God who made him and everything else there is! Wow! Every time God says “ ‘I will’ ” in Genesis 12:1–3, we get a hint of how much God offers Abram. The offer of friendship and the promises of God are powerful and mighty.

There is more. God gives Abram a command. This command is a test: “ ‘Go,’ ” (Genesis 12:1, NIrV). Abram shows his faith by obeying (Hebrews 11:8). But Abram does not obey because He wants to get the blessings from God. Abram obeys because He trusts and loves God. Abram wants to be friends with God too. That is why Abram obeys God. Sure, Abram already believes in God and has faith in His promises. Of course, Abram does! That is why he leaves his family in the first place and goes to a strange land. The obedience of Abram shows his faith both to humans and to angels.

Abram shows us the connection between faith and works. We are saved by faith. Our faith causes us to be obedient. God promises to save us first; our good works come next. Obedience is our answer to the things God already has done for us. This faith shows the important rule in 1 John 4:19: “We love Him because He loved us first” (1 John 4:19, NLV).