---
title: The agreement with Moses 
date:  07/04/2021
---

**`Read Exodus 6:1–8. Then Answer The Questions Below:**

`1. What earlier agreement is the Lord talking about? (For the answer, read Genesis 12:1–3.)`

`2. The Lord promises to make His people free from slavery in Egypt. How is this promise part of His agreement?`

`3.  What does the Lord promise His people? Compare this promise with the promise the Lord makes Noah before the Flood. What is the same about these two promises?`

God saves His people from slavery in Egypt. Then God makes an agreement with His people at Sinai. This agreement shows us that God makes His people free from slavery and sin (Exodus 20:2). The agreement also shows Israel the plan of God for the sin problem. God shows His people what to do if they sin and how to seek His forgiveness. So, this agreement is the same as the other agreements we studied. All the agreements show God’s mercy, forgiveness, and power to overcome sin.

The Sinai agreement in many ways shows us the same things that God promises to Abraham:

1. God offers His people a special friendship with Him (compare Genesis 17:7, 8 with Exodus 19:5, 6).

2. God promises to make His people mighty on the earth (compare Genesis 12:2 with Exodus 19:6).

3. God commands His people to obey Him (compare Genesis 17:9–14; and Genesis 22:16–18 with Exodus 19:5).

“Do you see what happens first? The Lord saves Israel. Then God gives them His law to obey. God does the same thing later on with the Good News: Jesus saves us from sin first (read John 1:29; 1 Corinthians 15:3; Galatians 1:4). Then Jesus lives in us and gives us the power to obey His law (Galatians 2:20; Romans 4:25; Romans 8:1–3; 1 Peter 2:24).”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 1, page 602, adapted.

`In Exodus 6:7, the Lord says that Israel will he His people. He will be their God. So, Israel will be special to God, and God will be special to Israel. Does God want us to be special to Him today? If yes, explain how and why?`