---
title:  Further Thought
date:  09/04/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Abraham in Canaan,” pages 132–138, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “The Prophets of God Helping Them,” pages 569–571, in Prophets and Kings.

“The law of God shows us our duty. The law of God is love. God taught His law of love to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. Later, the Lord announced His law of love on Mount Sinai. This law of love is part of the New Agreement. God wants to write His law on our hearts. This law shows the human worker the plan of God for his or her life. What if God left us alone to decide for ourselves what we should do? Then Satan will take control of us. We will become the same as Satan is in our hearts. That is why God commands us to serve Him. His plan for our lives is good. It will make us better people. God wants us to be wise and patient workers. God wants us to do the work He gives us. Jesus showed us how we should work when He came to this earth. Jesus says, ‘My God, I am happy to do whatever you want. I never stop thinking about your teachings.’ Psalm 40:8 [ERV]. ‘I came down from heaven to do what God wants, not what I want’ John 6:38 [ERV]. Jesus came to this earth because He loved God and sinners. Jesus also came here because He wanted to show God honor and to praise Him. That is why Jesus suffered and died. Love for God and humans controlled everything that Jesus did. Jesus asks us to let this same love control our lives too.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 329, 330, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Was the agreement that God made with Noah, Abram, Moses, and us the same agreement He made with Adam? Or was it something new? For the answer, compare Genesis 3:15; Genesis 22:18; and Galatians 3:8, 16.`

`Why is friendship an important part of the agreement? You can have a contract with someone that you do not feel close to, right? But that is not what God wants with us. The Lord wants to be close to us. Why is that so? Talk about it in class.`

`Why is a wedding or marriage a good word picture for the agreement between God and His people?`

**Summary**: Sin destroyed the connection between God and Adam and Eve. God wants to heal that broken connection. He does this by making an agreement. This agreement shows that God wants to save humans and be close to us. God leads the way in making the agreement because He loves us. He makes us powerful promises. He does wonderful things for us. Why? Because He wants us to come back to Him.