---
title:  Sabbath Rest
date:  28/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 1:26, 27; 2 Peter 2:19; Exodus 19:6; John 5:7–16; Exodus 31:13, 16, 17.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Work may be done for six days. But the seventh day is the Day of Rest, a holy meeting when you do no work at all, It is the Day of Rest to the Lord in all your homes’ ” (Leviticus 23:3, NLV).

CHRISTIANS GIVE MANY REASONS why we no longer need to keep the seventh-day Sabbath. Some Christians say Jesus changed the Sabbath to Sunday. Or Jesus got rid of the Sabbath. Or Paul did. Other Christians say church leaders during New Testament times replaced the seventh-day Sabbath with Sunday. Sunday is the day Jesus came back to life. The newest reasons for not keeping the Sabbath are sneaky. So, we may have a hard time seeing that these ideas are dangerous. These ideas are not really bad. But people use these ideas in the wrong way to prove their lies. One example is the idea that Jesus is our Sabbath rest. So, we do not need to rest on the seventh day or any day at all.

But more Christians now are becoming interested in a day of rest. Of course, they say Sunday is the correct rest day. Or they say God does not care about the day they keep. We know the Bible teaches that these ideas are wrong. As Seventh-day Adventists, we understand that the law of God continues forever. But these Christians are now starting to see that a day of rest is important.

This week we will look more at the rest that God gave us in the Sabbath commandment. We will learn more about why this rest is so important to our lives.