---
title:  Remember The Sabbath 
date:  29/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The fourth commandment is the only commandment that starts with the verb “remember.” The fourth commandment does not tell us to “remember not to steal” or to “remember not to kill.” The fourth commandment tells us to remember the Sabbath day.

The word “remember” helps us think about history and things that happened in the past. So, when we remember, we make a connection with the past. The fourth commandment helps us to connect all the way back to the time when God made the earth and the sky in six days. Then He rested on the seventh day.

`Read Genesis 1:26, 27 and Genesis 9:6. What do these verses teach us about why we are special? How different are humans from the rest of the things God made? Why is it so important that we understand why we are so different?`

When we remember God made everything, we remember God made us, too. We did not come from apes. We are copies of God. God did not make anything else to be a copy of Himself except humans. So, as humans, we are very different from any other animal on this planet. As humans, we are different from everything else God made.

`How does the story about how God made the earth and sky in six days help us remember our connection to nature? For the answer, read Genesis 2:15, 19.`

When we remember that God made the earth, we also remember that God made us responsible for taking care of this earth. God made us managers over everything He made. God put us in charge of this earth. So, we must take care of this earth in a way that honors God.

Yes, sin has messed up everything. But this earth belongs to God. So, we must not hurt the earth or any other people. So many other people often do hurt the earth and each other. But their evil behavior goes against the plan of God for humans and this earth.

`The Sabbath helps us remember the One who made us. In what ways can the Sabbath also help us remember to take good care of this planet?`