---
title:  Celebrating Our Freedom 
date:  30/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Moses writes the Ten Commandments twice: first in Exodus and then in Deuteronomy. We saw that the Sabbath commandment in Exodus helps us think about the time when God made the earth. In Deuteronomy, Moses talks to Israel about the 40 years they spent in the desert. Then he gives them the Ten Commandments again. This time, Moses tells the Israelites to remember the Sabbath for a different reason. They should remember the Sabbath because God made them free from slavery in Egypt (Deuteronomy 5:12–15).

`Today, we are not slaves in Egypt. But what slavery do we need to be made free from? For the answer, read Genesis 4:7; Hebrews 12:1; and 2 Peter 2:19.`

The Sabbath is a celebration of our freedom from everything that makes us slaves to sin. On the Sabbath, we remember that God gives us freedom. God freely offers this freedom to us. We must accept His gift by faith. The Sabbath also helps us remember we cannot earn freedom from sin ourselves. We see this Bible truth in the story about the firstborn Israelite children on the night before they leave Egypt. The children are saved by the blood of the lamb. The blood of the lamb is painted on the sides of the doors of their houses on the evening before they left Egypt (Exodus 12). In the same way, the blood of the Lamb saves us. The blood of Jesus makes us free from all sin.

`Read Romans 6:1–7. What does Paul say here that shows the freedom that the Sabbath promises us?`

Look at the way Deuteronomy 5:15 is written: “ ‘Remember that you were slaves in Egypt. The LORD your God reached out his mighty hand and powerful arm and brought you out of there’ ” (Deuteronomy 5:15, NIrV). In this verse, Moses helps the people of Israel to remember again that only God saves them. There is a lesson here for us as Christians, too. We are saved only because of Jesus.

The Sabbath commandment tells us to rest in the peace that Jesus earned for us. God makes us free from sin and from the useless behavior of trying to save ourselves. The Sabbath helps us remember that God made us. So, we can trust Him to make us new too. We can trust God to free us, right now, from sin if we let Him.