---
title:  The Foreigners Living In Your Cities 
date:  31/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 19:6. What does this verse tell us about the plan of God for the people of Israel in Bible times? (Read also 1 Peter 2:9).`

God brought Israel out of Egypt. God chose Israel to be His people. He made His agreement with them. God planned for Israel to share the good news about Jesus with everyone on earth. God showed Israel special care. He protected them and gave them many gifts. At the same time, God made Israel responsible for sharing His Bible truth with people. Sadly, the people of Israel did not stay loyal to God.

`Read Exodus 23:12. What is happening in this verse? What does this verse teach us about how God looks at other people who are not His chosen people?`

The Sabbath is for everyone. Many people miss this important Bible truth. Of course, the biggest mistake people make is thinking that the Sabbath is only for the Jews. But if we read Genesis 1 and 2, we see this idea is wrong. God made all people. So, all people should remember the Sabbath day.

We should always remember what the Sabbath means to us. At the same time, we should remember what the Sabbath teaches us about other people. Our resting on the Sabbath will bring us closer to our Savior, who made us and died for us. When we come close to Jesus, we will look at people with new eyes. We will see them as made by the same God who made us. All people are loved by the same God who loves us. The same God who died for us also died for them. As we saw in Exodus 20:10 and Deuteronomy 5:14, the servants, foreigners, and even the animals should be given a Sabbath rest.

The foreigners who live in our cities show us the people who are not yet in a special agreement with God. But God wants them to enjoy the Sabbath rest anyway. This says a lot about our need for rest. People, even animals, should never be hurt or used in a bad way. Every week, the Hebrew people (and we too) should remember in a powerful way just how much we are the same as other people. We may enjoy blessings that other people do not. But we must remember that we are all part of the same human family. So, we must show other people respect and love.