---
title:  Serving People On The Sabbath Honors God 
date:  01/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In New Testament times, the Jewish religious leaders made many rules about keeping Sabbath. What were some of these rules? You cannot tie anything up or untie anything on the Sabbath. Tying and untying was work. You cannot put out a fire. You cannot move an object from a private house to a public building or area.

`What do the Jewish religious leaders blame Jesus for doing wrong in John 5:7–16?`

Jesus heals a crippled man. The poor man was sick for 38 years. Do the religious leaders care that the man can now walk? No! The leaders pay no attention to the wonderful miracle. What do the leaders care about? They are upset that the man carries his bed in public on the Sabbath! The leaders miss the lesson this miracle can teach them. They fail to see that Jesus uses the Sabbath to help people in need. The leaders care only about their rules. We must be careful not to make the same mistake the leaders do.

`How does Isaiah 58:2, 3 show us the way God wants us to keep the Sabbath? What is His plan for Sabbath keeping?`

God does not want us to give Him empty worship on the Sabbath. He wants us to help and serve people in need.

Isaiah makes this idea plain and clear in Isaiah 58:13, 14, NIrV: “ ‘Do not work on the Sabbath day. Do not do just anything you want to on my holy day. Make the Sabbath a day you can enjoy. Honor the LORD’s holy day. Do not work on it. Do not do just anything you want to, Do not talk about things that are worthless [trashy, foolish, empty, and useless]. Then you will find your joy in me. I will give you control over the most important places in the land. And you will enjoy all the good things in the land I gave your father Jacob.’ The LORD has spoken.”

Doing “ ‘anything you want to’ ” (Isaiah 58:13, NIrV) or “ ‘doing things to please yourself’ ” (Isaiah 58:13, ERV) is the same thing as “ ‘trampling [breaking] the Sabbath’ ” (Isaiah 58:13, NRSV). God invites us on the Sabbath to take care of needy people, people no one cares about, and people who are hungry and have no clothes. More than any other day, the Sabbath should help us think about the needs of other people more than we think about our own needs.