---
title:  The Sign That Shows We Belong To God 
date:  02/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

During World War 2, England expected an attack at any moment from the German army. The English got ready to defend their island home as much as possible. Of course, the roads in England offered the enemy the fastest way to carry out their plans. So, the English people put roadblocks in many important places along the streets and highways. Then the English leaders did something strange. The leaders wanted to slow down the enemy and confuse its army. So, the English leaders removed railroad signs and road signs. Signs on buildings were covered in concrete.

Road signs and building signs are important. They help guide us. They also give us important information about where we are and where we need to go. Before GPS was invented, we all used maps to get directions. We watched for signs to locate where we were. The signs helped us know if we were going in the right direction or the wrong way.

`What is the Sabbath a sign of? Read Exodus 31:13, 16, 17. We believe that the law of God continues forever. So, what meaning does Exodus 31:13, 16, 17 have for us today?`

Exodus 31:13, 16, 17 was said to Israel in Bible times. But Paul tells us that “if you belong to Christ, then you have become the true [real] children of Abraham. What God promised to him in now yours” (Galatians 3:29, NLV). So, then, the words God said to Israel are meant for us, too. That is why the Sabbath is still a sign between God and His people today. Exodus 31 shows us that the Sabbath is a sign of the everlasting agreement God makes with His people (Exodus 31:16, 17). The Sabbath helps us know our Savior. He is the One who made us. He also makes us holy. The Sabbath is the same as a big flag that gets raised on a pole every seven days. When we see this “flag,” we remember to honor and worship God. As humans, we often forget to keep the Sabbath and put God first. So, God gave us the Sabbath to help us remember to worship Him.

The Sabbath comes to us every week. The Sabbath shows us that God made us. The Sabbath also shows us God frees us from sin. The Sabbath helps us see that we are responsible for helping people no one remembers or cares about. The Sabbath always helps us remember who we are, who made us, and what God is doing for us now. The Sabbath also shows what God will do for us when He makes the sky and earth new again.