---
title:  Let the Day Perish
date:   23/10/2016
---

Imagine that you are Job. Inexplicably your life, all that you have worked for, all that you have accomplished, all that God has blessed you with, comes tumbling down. It just doesn’t make sense. There doesn’t seem to be any reason, good or bad, for it.

Years ago, a school bus went off the road, killing many of the children. In that context, one atheist said that this is the kind of thing you can expect in a world that has no meaning, no purpose, no direction. A trag- edy like that has no meaning, because the world itself has no meaning.

As we have seen, though, this answer doesn’t work for the believer in God. And for Job, a faithful follower of the Lord, this answer didn’t work either. But what was the answer, what was the explanation? Job didn’t have one. All he had was his extreme grief and all the questions that inevitably accompanied it.

```Read Job 3:1–10. How does Job first express his grief here? In what ways might any of us relate to what he is saying?```

Life, of course, is a gift from God. We exist only because God has created us (Acts 17:28, Rev. 4:11). Our very existence is a miracle, one that has stumped modern science. Indeed, scientists aren’t even in total agreement on what the definition of “life” is, much less how it came about, or even more important, why it did.

Who, though, in moments of despair, hasn’t wondered if life was worth it? We’re not talking about the unfortunate cases of suicide. Rather, what about the times when, like Job, we might have wished that we hadn’t been born to begin with?

An ancient Greek once said that the best thing that could happen to a person, outside of dying, is never to have been born at all. That is, life can be so miserable that we would have been better off not even exist- ing and thus been spared the inevitable anguish that comes with human life in this fallen world.

```Have you ever felt the way Job felt here, that is, wishing you had never been born? Eventually, though, what happened? Of course, you felt better. How important it is for us to remember that, even in our worst moments, we have the hope, the prospect, of things improving.```