---
title:  The Weaver’s Shuttle
date:   26/10/2016
---

Imagine the following conversation. Two people are bemoaning the fate of all humanity: death. That is, no matter how good the lives they live, no matter what they accomplish, it’s going to end in the grave.

“Yeah,” gripes Methuselah to a friend. “We live, what, 800, 900 years, and then we are gone. What is 800 or 900 years in contrast to eternity?” (See Genesis 5.)

Though it’s hard for us today to imagine what it would be like to live for hundreds of years (Methuselah was 187 years old when his son Lamech was born, and Methuselah lived 782 years after that), yet even the antediluvians, facing the reality of death, must have bemoaned what could have seemed to them like the shortness of life.

```Read Job 7:1–11. What is Job’s complaint? See also Ps. 39:5, 11; James 4:14.```

We just saw Job seeking the rest and relief that would come from death. Now he’s lamenting how quickly life goes by. He is saying basi- cally that life is hard, full of toil and pain, and then we die. Here’s a conundrum we often face: we bemoan how fast and fleeting life is, even when that life can be so sad and miserable.

A Seventh-day Adventist woman wrote an article about her struggle with depression and even thoughts of suicide. And yet she wrote: “The worst part was that I was an Adventist who observed a lifestyle proven to help me live ‘six years longer.’ ” That didn’t make sense. Of course, at times of pain and suffering, so many things don’t seem to make sense. Sometimes, amid our pain, reason and rationality go by the wayside, and all we know is our hurt and fear, and we see no hope. Even Job, who really knew better (Job 19:25), cried out in his despair and hopelessness: “Oh, remember that my life is a breath! My eye will never again see good” (Job 7:7, NKJV). Job, for whom the prospect of death now seemed nearer than ever, still bemoaned how short that existence was, no matter how presently miserable it was at the time.
   
```How should your understanding of the Fall, of death, and of the promise of the resurrection help you to put into perspective the whole question of how fast life goes by?```