---
title:  WORD PICTURES FOR THE BIBLE
date:   09/08/2020
---

`Read Psalm 119:105; Jeremiah 23:29; Luke 8:11; and Matthew 4:4. What five word pictures for the Bible do you find in these verses? Why do you think these five word pictures were chosen to show us God’s Word, the Bible?`

The word pictures in these verses show us the power that the Bible has to change hearts and lives. When we share the Bible with people, it is the same as our shining a light. This light shows people the truth about life. Jesus says, “ ‘I am the light of the world [all the people living on earth]’ ” (John 8:12, ERV). Our misunderstanding is the same as darkness. Jesus, the Light, shines in our hearts. He shows us who God is. Jesus makes our misunderstanding about God disappear. The Holy Spirit teaches our minds about who God is. The Spirit shows us by the Word of God.

Jeremiah compares the Word of God to a fire and a hammer. The Bible breaks our hard hearts. The same thing happens when we help people see the beauty of Jesus in the Bible. Then their hard hearts break. Jesus’ love is the same as a fire. It destroys every selfish and greedy feeling in the heart. It removes sin from our lives.

The Bible also is the same as a seed. Seeds give life. Seeds also take time to grow. Not all seeds grow at the same time. Not all plants grow fast. But when things are right, the life in the seed bursts from the soil into new life. Remember this word picture when you “plant” the “seed,” or Bible truth, in people’s hearts. We will not always see things happen right away. But the seed grows. In God’s time, the seed we planted in someone’s heart will grow. Then that person will be ready for God’s kingdom.

Jesus says that the Bible is the same as bread. The Bible removes hunger from the heart. It feeds our spiritual wish to be close to God. So, share the promises of the Bible with people. Help your family, friends, and coworkers discover that Jesus is God’s Word. Then their lives will be changed by Jesus’ love. Jesus’ love will charm their hearts. His mercy will surprise them. He will fill every wish of their hearts.

`Think about the truths that we know only from the Bible. What should this tell us about why we should hold dear what the Bible teaches us?`
