---
title:  THE POWER OF GOD’S WORD, THE BIBLE
date:   10/08/2020
---

`Compare Hebrews 1:1–3; Hebrews 4:12; and Psalm 33:6, 9. What do these verses tell us about the power of God’s Word, the Bible?`

The Bible is the Word of God. It is the Living Word. God’s Word has the power to do what it says. Human words can say what something is. But God can talk about things that are not done and make them happen. He makes thing happen by the power of His Word. The Bible is a Word that has the power to make things happen. The words that God says have the power to do everything that He says.

In Genesis 1, the words “God said” are written again and again (Genesis 1:3, 6, 11, 14, 20, 24, 26, 29, ERV). God’s words are very powerful. When He speaks, His words cause dry land to come from the water. His words also make plants grow, flowers bloom, and animals come alive.

We see an interesting Hebrew word in Genesis 1 for God’s power to make things. It is the word “bara.” This word shows us God’s power to make something from nothing. The verb is written only when God is the subject. That is, only God can “bara,” or make things from nothing. God makes something from nothing by the power of His Word.

God made this earth by the power of His Word. He also keeps it going by this same Word too. This same power that is in God’s spoken word is in His Written Word, the Bible. The same Holy Spirit that helped God make the earth also helped men to write the Bible. The Holy Spirit is there with us when we read the Bible or share it with people. There is life-giving, life-changing power in the Bible. “The power that made the heaven and earth is in the Bible. The Bible gives power. It gives life. Every command in the Bible is God’s promise. When we accept one of God’s promises, it carries with it the life of God. That is why God’s promises can change our hearts to be the same as God’s.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 126, adapted.

When we trust in God’s promises, our lives will be changed. When we help people to believe in them, the Holy Spirit will change their lives too.

`Make a picture of this in your head: God said a word and the thing He said happened or came alive from nothing! Wow! That is wonderful! What does this tell us about God’s power? Why should this truth about God’s power comfort us?`
