---
title:  THE BLESSINGS WE GET FROM BIBLE STUDY
date:   11/08/2020
---

There are many different blessings we get from studying the promises in God’s Word, the Bible. Peter tells us why we should study Bible promises. When we study “these promises you can have God’s own life in you” (2 Peter 1:4, NLV). James also talks about what happens when “God’s teaching . . . is planted in your hearts.” Then “this teaching can save you” (James 1:21, ERV). Paul also talks about “ ‘God and the message about his grace [forgiveness and mercy]. That message is able to give you strength, and it will give you the blessings that God has for all his holy people’ ” (Acts 20:32, ICB). The Bible is part of God’s plan to save us. We see Jesus in the Bible, and we are changed. By seeing Jesus in His Word, we become as loving and holy as He is (2 Corinthians 3:18). “Here is an important rule about the mind and the spirit. Our minds and spirits become changed by what we see. The mind little by little changes itself to become the same as what it thinks about.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 555, adapted.

`Read 2 Timothy 3:14–17 and John 17:14–17. What other blessings do we get from studying the Bible?`

Paul tells Timothy to obey the Bible. Then Paul talks about the blessings we get from Bible study. Paul says that the Bible shows us what to believe. The Bible also helps us to see what is false. The Bible shows us God’s plan for humans. The Bible also shows us our sins. It corrects our wrong ways of thinking. It shows us how to live a holy life. The Bible shows us the saving mercy of Jesus. The Bible leads us away from sin to become the same as Jesus in our hearts. The Bible shows us Jesus’ unselfish love. Then we see how selfish we really are. In the Bible, we see how deeply Jesus loved and cared about people. This Bible truth changes our lives. When we share Bible truth with people, their lives are changed too. When we see Jesus in the Bible, we start to love people more. We become the same as He is in our spirits. Witnessing is not about sharing what we think or believe. Witnessing is all about sharing the everlasting truths found in the Bible. The Bible has blessed our lives in wonderful and surprising ways. So, we should tell people how it can bless their lives too.
