---
title: 'Living The Truth'
date: 12/08/2020
---

There are more than 3,000 promises in the Bible. Each promise comes from the heart of a loving God. This God “can do much, much more than anything we can ask or think of” (Ephesians 3:20, ERV). Bible promises are promises that God makes to each one of us. What happens when we trust in these promises and teach people to trust them too? Then God pours out His blessings on us. In Romans, Paul tells us the reason why God does this: “He even let his own Son suffer for us. God gave his Son for all of us. So now with Jesus, God will surely give us all things” (Romans 8:32, ERV). Peter explains the reason a little more. Peter says, “Jesus has the power of God. And his power has given us everything we need to live a life devoted to God” (2 Peter 1:3, ERV). On the cross, Jesus won the war against sin when He died. He also won the war against Satan, the power of evil, and the grave. Jesus’ winning allows Him to give us everything we need to live a holy and spiritual life. Jesus also promises to take care of our basic needs.

`Compare 1 John 1:7–9 and Philippians 4:13, 19. These promises are very different from each other. But what do they teach us about what is in God’s heart? How have these promises made your life better?`

Each promise in these verses is different. But both promises give us a picture of God that is the same. These promises show us that God is loving and forgiving. He has all power in heaven and on earth. God also cares for our basic needs. So, these promises show us that God cares deeply for us.

`Read Hebrews 3:19; Hebrews 4:1–3; and Matthew 13:58. What do these verses tell us about our need for faith?`

God gives us many wonderful Bible promises. How do we make these promises ours? We must believe in them because Jesus made them. Then the blessings in these promises become ours. So, why do God’s promises not come true in our lives? Because we do not show enough faith. We do not believe God will do what He says He will do. So, pray that God will lead you to someone who needs the Bible’s promises. These promises will fill hearts with hope.
