---
title:  SHARING BIBLE TRUTH
date:   13/08/2020
---

Good news is for sharing. Think about the times in your life that good news made you happy. Maybe it was the day you got married. Or the day your child was born. Or the day you got a new job, a new car, or a home. You were so excited you wanted to share the news.

Sure, it is wonderful to share our joy with people. But the best news we can share is about Jesus. Think about the times when you discovered a beautiful truth in the Bible. You wanted to share it, right? The same thing happened to Peter. The religious leaders try to stop Peter and his friends from preaching Bible truth. But Peter tells them, “ ‘We cannot be quiet. We must tell people about what we have seen and heard’ ” (Acts 4:20, ERV).

“As soon as someone comes to Jesus, he wants to tell people that Jesus is his precious Friend. Nothing can stop him from sharing this truth. When Jesus makes us holy, we are filled with the joy of His Holy Spirit, who lives in us. We want to tell people about it.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 78, adapted.

In Romans 1:14–16, NLV, Paul writes: “I must help the people who have had a chance to hear the Good News and those [people] who have not. I must help those [people] with much learning and those [people] who have never learned from books. So I want to preach the Good News to you who live in Rome also. I am not ashamed of the Good News. It is the power of God. It is the way He saves men from the punishment of their sins if they put their trust in Him. It is for the Jew first and for all other people also.” Paul never gets tired of telling his story about how Jesus changed his life. For Paul, good news must be shared. He cannot keep quiet.

`What important rules about sharing Bible truth do Isaiah 50:4; Ecclesiastes 3:1; and 2 Timothy 4:2 give us?`

Jesus gives us the chance to share our faith when we give our lives fully to Him. He opens people’s hearts. Then He brings these people into our lives. When we share our faith, we must remember three rules: what we say, how we say it, and when we say it.

`How can you be a better witness for Jesus to the people in your life?`
