---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   14/08/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “A Knowledge of God,” pages 87–91, in Steps to Christ; “Bible Readings With Families,” pages 192, 193, in Gospel Workers; and “Bible Work Techniques,” pages 481–486, in Evangelism.

God works on hearts all around us. We need to have the spiritual eyesight to see God’s work. Then we will see the chance to share Bible truth with people. God gets their hearts ready for us to plant the seeds of truth. The Holy Spirit got the heart of Nicodemus ready. The Holy Spirit also got the heart of the Samaritan woman at the well ready. And the heart of the woman with the flow of blood, the thief on the cross, the Roman army leader, and other people too. The Spirit made them ready to accept Jesus before Jesus ever met them. The Spirit did this by giving them different experiences in life. The Spirit also filled their hearts and minds with thoughts from God.

We may be shy about asking people if we can pray with them, share a Bible promise, or give them some magazines about the Bible. But did you know what is really happening when you want to share your faith with someone? Many times the Holy Spirit already got that person ready to hear what you have to say.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. What if someone comes to you and says he feels very guilty. He needs God to forgive him. What advice will you give him? What Bible verses will you share? What has been your own experience with guilt and the power of God’s forgiveness in your own life?`

`2. Sometimes God brings people into our lives because He wants them to know His truth. What can we do to make sure we are ready to help the ones God brings to us?`

`3. Think more about God’s power and His Word in the Genesis story about how God made the sky and the earth. Outer space is so big. It is hard for us to make a picture of it in our minds. But the God who made it must be even more powerful than what He made! This powerful God loves us too. How can this thought comfort us? What hope do we get from knowing these things about God? How can this knowledge help us share our faith in a more powerful way?`
