---
title: 'Feeling Proud'
date: 12/04/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Luke 18

We’ve all known people with big egos, those who think they are never wrong. Perhaps they want to be in control and are never open to instruction or constructive criticism. Or perhaps they seem to be constantly in conflict or are a master of putting others down. Pride. When you think of this word, you might picture an arrogant politician, a rich or famous person, or a peacock. Our minds tend to immediately think of others, but the real question is this: What about ourselves? By pointing the finger at others and denying pride in our own lives, we deceive ourselves.

We’ve all battled with pride, the feeling that you’re more important or better than other people. We’ve all experienced wanting to look, act, or speak better than those around us because we believe we are better than them, at least in some way. However, pride is a feeling—one that cannot and should not be relied on. Pride emerges from the desire to show that our lives have value. Yet we should already know our lives have value because God created us, and Jesus died for us.

Pride first began with Lucifer, the covering cherub, who was in close service to God. We see that Satan is the opposite of God (compare Isa. 14:12–14 and Phil. 2:5–11). We don’t know when or how those thoughts of selfishness crept into his heart, but we do know that these thoughts propelled the universe into the reality we know as the great controversy. Our world has battled the consequences of sin ever since Satan planted doubt in Adam’s and Eve’s minds and then tempted them to love and trust self above God.

The world rewards pride. In popular culture, the singers, comedians, and entertainers with the biggest egos go the furthest. In the business world and among politicians, people admire the most arrogant elites. It’s countercultural to be humble and loving. Each of us must decide which principles we choose to embrace. Ultimately, we choose to be filled with either “the love of the Father” or “the pride of life” (1 John 2:15, 16).

Can pride ever be positive? Perhaps not in the context of self-exaltation, though we might use the word positively when speaking about a person’s achievements or in the context of a deep appreciation for something someone has done (“I’m so proud of you!”). It’s important to understand that pursuing excellence and acknowledging and appreciating the gifts and abilities that God has given you is not necessarily being proud. According to Scripture, there is a proper kind of self-love—think about Jesus’ command in Mark 12:31 to love others as we love ourselves—but this is always unselfish love. Pride is absent when people have God’s presence in their lives and have a purposeful direction (see 1 Tim. 3:1). On the other hand, pride manifests itself when people don’t give God the glory for what He is doing in their lives.

We should be careful to remember that our possessions, abilities, and accomplishments don’t determine our value. Instead, our value should always come from God, because everything we have, even that which tempts us to pride, comes only from Him anyway. This is a point we must never forget.

This week, we’ll explore the impact that pride can have on our relationships with God and with others, and we’ll look at what the Bible teaches us about having humility before others and, of course, before God.

### inScribe

`Write out Luke 18:9–14 from the translation of your choice. What do you think of these two men? What did Jesus think of them? Which one do you relate to more? What important lesson is here for all of us?`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.