---
title: 'Know Yourself'
date: 13/04/2026
---

### inGest

Two men go to church to pray. One, a respected elder, stands up before church begins, in front of the congregation so they can see him. He prays aloud, thanking God for his own perceived goodness. The other man, a fringe dweller of society, stands at the very back of the church. His eyes are blurry with tears because of the weight of sin on his shoulders. He falls to his knees, whispering in desperation, “Please, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner!”

It’s very easy for us to exalt ourselves. Sometimes it becomes second nature to let others know about our accomplishments and how good we are. However, in and of themselves, these things make no difference to our reputation in heaven’s eyes. In fact, the basis of our reputation in heaven is completely contrary to what we might think, because “everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted” (Luke 18:14).

The arrogant Pharisee, same as the respected elder in the above story, boasted of his perceived righteousness and scorned people whose religious devotion seemed to be less than his. He felt he deserved heaven’s blessings. Because of his many good works, he felt his salvation was secure. He thought people should admire how religious he was. He was like other scribes of his time “who desire to go around in long robes, love greetings in the marketplaces, the best seats in the synagogues, and the best places at feasts” (Luke 20:46). In contrast, the tax collector, mirrored by the fringe dweller, acknowledged his sinful condition and knew he deserved no blessing from heaven. He relied on God’s mercy. There could not be a greater contrast between how these two men viewed themselves.

In this story, Jesus presents an upside-down kingdom that’s the opposite of what we probably expect. The man who assumes himself saved is lost; the man who admits his unworthiness is saved. “It is only he who knows himself to be a sinner that Christ can save.”<sup>1</sup> When we realize our true state of sinfulness and our desperate need for Christ, we can come to Him knowing with confidence that if “we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness” (1 John 1:9). The closer we draw to Christ, the more we realize our sinfulness and unworthiness. “In one way only can a true knowledge of self be obtained. We must behold Christ. It is ignorance of Him that makes men so uplifted in their own righteousness.”<sup>2</sup>

So, what does God think of the proud? First Peter 5:5 tells us that “God resists the proud, But gives grace to the humble.” It couldn’t be clearer.

**Questions to consider:**

`When did you last experience God’s grace? (Indeed, we should experience this grace daily.) We should also show grace to others. Spend some time in prayer right now, asking God to humble you under His mighty hand, that He alone may exalt you in due time.`

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons (1900), 158.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> White, Christ’s Object Lessons, 159.