---
title:  Struggling with the Basics
date:   13/04/2026
---

### inTerpret

The scribes and Pharisees were not the only people with attitude problems. Christ’s own disciples struggled with pride and selfish ambition. Though they spent years next to the humble Jesus, they still clamored for supremacy.

Imagine being one of Christ’s disciples. You travel with Him, eat with Him, sleep near Him, and learn from Him as He transforms countless lives, including yours. The crowds throng to Him, and you realize how special it is that He chose you to be one of the twelve closest to Him. Then you start to wonder: who’s the greatest among the disciples?

The feelings of jealousy between the disciples intensified near the end of Jesus’ ministry. Though they tried to hide it, they could not keep their rivalry a secret. Much to their chagrin, Jesus confronted them about their disputes. Something would have to change in the disciples’ hearts for them to accomplish the mission Jesus had for them (Luke 22:24–27). Not long before Christ’s death, the disciples were still struggling with the basics. Each one wanted to prove how much better he was than everybody else. You would have thought that after all this time of being close to Jesus, this debate about who was the greatest would’ve been the last thing on their minds. But that is not what happened.

Instead of these men being content with their calling, such pride rose in their hearts that each one thought himself better than the others. It’s easy to allow such thoughts to dominate our minds, but we are told that “there is nothing so offensive to God or so dangerous to the human soul as pride and self-sufficiency. Of all sins it is the most hopeless, the most incurable.”<sup>1</sup> This is very serious for us. Our pride offends God more than anything else, and it’s a character trait that’s difficult to overcome because we often don’t see it for what it is. In our state of self-sufficiency, we choose not to self-evaluate, for we see no need for it. We need to stop, self-diagnose, and ask God to open our eyes to our true state, because pride may be the number one factor that’s keeping us from having a close relationship with Him today. Even if we’ve been serving God day and night for years, perhaps, like the disciples, we still struggle with the basics. Pride is a temptation to all; nobody is exempt.

_God alone can do the work to remove pride and selfishness from your soul. Pause for a moment and pray this prayer:_ “Lord, take my heart; for I cannot give it. It is Thy property. Keep it pure, for I cannot keep it for Thee. Save me in spite of myself, my weak, unchristlike self. Mold me, fashion me, raise me into a pure and holy atmosphere, where the rich current of Thy love can flow through my soul.”<sup>1</sup>

_Memorize your favorite passage from Luke 18. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons (1900), 154.