---
title: 'Look at Him'
date: 16/04/2026
---

### inVite

In stark contrast to the disciples’ belief that they were superior and their desire to be acknowledged as such, we see Jesus, the ultimate example of humility. Jesus, who said, “Yet I am among you as the One who serves” (Luke 22:27). Jesus, who every day gave to those in need around Him because He was filled with compassion and saw the multitudes as sheep without a shepherd. He knew humanity needed Him more than anything else in life, though few realize this simple truth. Jesus, who gave up heaven to die for all humanity in the hope that they would understand His act of grace and respond to His invitation to have a relationship with Him.

Jesus came to this earth to show us a new way. He did it all. He bore all. He gave up the security of heaven, willingly lowered Himself to become the lowest of the low—a mere servant, a wrongly convicted criminal who suffered a most humiliating death (Phil. 2:3–8). Even in His most intense moments of suffering and loneliness, He took little notice of Himself or His pain. His heart was fixed on those He loved and wanted to save. He did not go to the cross to lift Himself up; He went to the cross to lift us up. He humbled Himself so that we could be exalted.

When we pause long enough to see Him—to truly see Him, we can’t help but realize our impurity, filth, and desperate need for Him in our lives today. When we look to Him, everything else, especially ourselves and our own perceived greatness, fades into complete insignificance. Who Jesus is, what He has done, and how much He loves His creation becomes front and center. Self will surely disappear when we look at Him.

Jesus. What a beautiful, mighty name. He is the epitome of humility. When our open hearts learn about Him, when we understand what He has done for us, and when we allow His words of life to sink into our minds, we realize how proud and wretched we really are. If His own disciples, who lived with and learned directly from Him, struggled with pride, we can’t fool ourselves into thinking we are any different. Ultimately, we can grow in our relationship with Jesus only when we are humble.

**Questions to consider:**

`Spend some extra time with Him right now. Take your Bible, a pen, and a journal or some paper and find somewhere quiet—perhaps even outside. Invite God to soften and speak to your heart. Write out Psalm 138, word for word. As you write, what words especially stand out to you?`