---
title: inQuire
date: 18/04/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Opposite attitudes:**

1. Contrast the two worshipers. How did they view themselves? Others? God? Luke 18:9–14
2. How did Jesus summarize the lesson from this story in Luke 18:14? Where else did He repeat this important principle?
3. Why is it so important to recognize our true condition and our great need when we come to God?
4. What examples did Jesus give of ways we can humble ourselves? What are the dangers of promoting ourselves? Luke 14:7–11

`Personal reflection: What common opportunities do we have today to place others first?`

**Difficult lessons:**

1. Even after being with Jesus for more than three years, in what ways did the disciples struggle with pride and self-promotion? Luke 22:24–27
2. How much would these disciples ultimately have been able to accomplish for God if they had refused to learn lessons of humility? Why? Prov. 29:23

`Personal reflection: How much do you think pride and selfish ambition prevent us from receiving God’s blessings today?`

**The perfect example:**

1. How does an attitude of humility change our relationships with other people? Phil. 2:3, 4
2. How is Jesus the ultimate example of humility and self-denial? Phil. 2:5–8

`Personal reflection: How would our world look different if everyone (nations, businesses, schools, churches, etc.) followed Jesus’ example?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Pride can be one of the greatest obstacles in growing in a relationship with God.
- If we feel self-sufficient and don’t realize our need, we will neglect our relationship with God and will fail to pursue it.
- Jesus was the humblest Man on earth and the most perfect example of how to have a close relationship with God.