---
title: 'God’s Final Message Of Mercy'
date: 01/04/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matthew 24:14; Revelation 14:14; Acts 1:9–11; Mark 4:26–29; Revelation 14:17–20.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “I looked and saw a white cloud. I saw someone like [who looked the same as] the Son of Man sitting on the cloud. He had a big gold crown on his head and a sharp harvest knife in his hand. Another angel came out of God’s temple. He called [shouted] in a loud voice to the one who was sitting on the cloud. He said, ‘Take your knife and cut the harvest [crop; grain]. The time has come to take in the harvest because the earth is ready’ ” (Revelation 14:14, 15, WE).

God always communicates with His people. God gives His people whatever Bible truths they need for their times. God warned His people about the Flood (Genesis 6:7). God told His people about the First Coming of Jesus (Daniel 9:24–27). God also told His people that He will judge them before the Second Coming (Daniel 7:9, 10; Daniel 8:14). God warned His people about what will happen in the end times (Revelation 12–14). In these final days of human history, God sent a special message to everyone on earth and to His people. This message will help us get ready to meet Jesus. This warning is named the Three Angels’ Messages.

The Three Angels’ Messages are Jesus’ final messages of mercy. In these messages, God tells us to trust everything that Jesus did in the past and does now in heaven to save us. The choices we make during the end times will depend on the choices we make now. So, we must get ready today.