---
title: 'Everlasting Choices'
date: 02/04/2023
---

Revelation is Jesus’ final message of mercy to the sinners on this earth. For 6,000 years, this planet has been filled with sin and evil. Soon, a day will come when all people on planet Earth will make their final decision for Jesus or against Him. We cannot change our decision when Jesus comes. At that time, God’s people will share His final message of mercy to everyone on earth. This message is the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin.

`Read about the end times in Matthew 24:14 and compare it with Revelation 14:6. In Matthew 24:14, what promise about the Good News did Jesus give His followers?`

Jesus promised His followers: “ ‘This Good News about the holy nation [kingdom] of God must be preached over all the earth’ ” (Matthew 24:14, NLV). When will this promise happen? Jesus shows us in Revelation 14:6. In the end times, the Good News “is for every country, tribe [family group], language, and nation [people group]” (Revelation 14:6, WE).

Three times in Revelation 22 Jesus says that He will come soon (Revelation 22:7, 12, 20). Then Jesus adds, “ ‘Let the person who does wrong keep on doing wrong. Let the evil person continue to be evil. Let the person who does right keep on doing what is right. And let the holy person continue to be holy’ ” (Revelation 22:11, NIrV). The book of Revelation shows us that God will lead every person on earth to decide for Jesus or against Him.

Of course, we choose for Jesus or against Him in the choices we make, big or small, every day. Now, today, and every day we must choose to show faith in Jesus and to obey His commandments. “We show that we love God when we obey his laws. His laws are not hard to obey” (1 John 5:3, WE). As Ellen G. White says, “Jesus doesn’t change our thoughts and feelings at His Second Coming. We must change now. Our future depends on the choices we make daily.”—Last Day Events, page 295, adapted.

`How does God change our thoughts and feelings? How does His mercy help us to become stronger Christians? We want to be the same as Jesus in our hearts. What can we do to allow the Holy Spirit to change us?`