---
title: 'The Son Of Man Comes Back'
date: 03/04/2023
---

Revelation 14 has important Bible verses about God’s end-time message to His people and everyone else on earth. An important part of this message is the promise that Jesus will come back. Jesus said, “ ‘In the future you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right side of the Powerful One. And you will see the Son of Man coming on clouds in the sky’ ” (Mark 14:62, ICB).

`What name is used for Jesus when He comes back to earth? Read Revelation 14:14 for the answer. Why do you think John uses this name for Jesus?`

Jesus named Himself “Son of Man” 82 times in the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Son of Man is one of Jesus’ favorites names for Himself. Jesus liked this name because it shows that He is one of us. Jesus is a Savior who understands us. He knows the sins we fight against. He has passed the tests that we must pass in this life. Jesus, the Son of Man, will come to take us home. The Jesus who comes for us is the same Jesus who lived with us on earth. Jesus is the only One who can save us because He became one of us. As a human, Jesus met Satan’s hate. Satan tried to get Jesus to sin. But Jesus won the fight against Satan.

**Read the Bible verses below. What do these Bible verses teach us about Jesus, the Son of Man?**

`Matthew 16:27`

`Matthew 24:27, 30`

`Matthew 25:31, 32`

Notice some important parts of these verses: (1) Jesus is the Son of Man. Jesus is coming with His angels to take us to heaven. (2) Jesus will separate the sheep from the goats. (This separation is a word picture for God’s work as Judge.) (3) God will make a final decision about the future of all countries and people.

What does the name “Son of Man” tell you about Jesus? Jesus was God. But He became one of us. He never sinned. What hope does this Bible truth give you?