---
title: 'God’s Work As Judge In Heaven'
date: 04/04/2023
---

`Compare Revelation 14:14 and Acts 1:9–11. How are these verses alike? What things do you see in both verses?`

John says, “I looked and saw a white cloud. I saw someone like [who looked the same as] the Son of Man sitting on the cloud” (Revelation 14:14, WE). After Jesus woke up from the dead, He went to heaven. In Acts 1:9, Luke tells us about this time. After Jesus finished talking to His followers, He went up in the sky. Jesus’ followers “watched him going. Then a cloud hid him, and they did not see him any more” (Acts 1:9, WE). Jesus left in a cloud of angels. He will come back with a cloud of angels. Angels stood there with Jesus’ followers when Jesus went up to heaven. The angels said, “ ‘You men of [from] the country of Galilee, why do you stand looking up into heaven [the sky]? This same Jesus Who was taken from you into heaven will return [come back] in the same way you saw Him go up into heaven’ ” (Acts 1:11, NLV). Do you see the words “this same Jesus”? This same Jesus is the Son of Man who walked the dirty streets in Nazareth. This same Jesus healed the sick in the crowded streets in Jerusalem and in the villages in Israel. This same Jesus preached to the people on the grassy hillsides of Galilee. This same Jesus is coming again.

In the book of Daniel, we read about the Son of Man and the work that God does as Judge in the end times.

`Why does Daniel name Jesus the “Son of Man”? Read Daniel 7:9, 10, 13, 14 for the answer. In these verses, we read about the time when God will judge His people. What is the Son of Man doing during that time? Why should that information comfort us?`

In Daniel 7:9, 10, Daniel sees the court in heaven. Many angels stand around God’s throne. God is ready to judge His people. God opens the books. These books are records of our lives. In Daniel 7:13, 14, Jesus, the Son of Man, comes to God the Father. God gives Jesus His everlasting kingdom. God’s work as Judge shows everyone in heaven that He and Jesus did everything to save humans. God’s work as Judge shows that He and His people are innocent and that Satan is a liar.