---
title: 'The Winner’s Crown'
date: 05/04/2023
---

In the book of Revelation, John shows us a picture of Jesus. Jesus is “the Son of Man. He had a crown of gold on His head. In His hand He had a sharp knife for cutting grain” (Revelation 14:14, NLV). The word written as “crown” comes from the word “stephanos” in the Greek language. A “stephanos” is a winner’s crown. When an athlete won an important contest, he got a “stephanos” or crown of honor.

Jesus wore a crown of thorns. This crown is a word picture for shame. People hated Jesus and rejected Him. People spit on Jesus. They made fun of Him. They beat Jesus and whipped Him. But now Jesus wears a crown of honor. When He comes again, Jesus will be King of kings and Lord of lords.

`Compare Revelation 14:15 and Mark 4:26–29. What is the same between these verses? What are they both talking about?`

In Revelation 14:15, an angel comes out of God’s temple. The angel cries to Jesus: “ ‘Cut the grain. The time has come. The earth is ready to be harvested’ ” (Revelation 14:15, NIrV). The harvest is a word picture that shows the time of the Second Coming. The angel tells Jesus that it is time to go get His children and bring them home to heaven.

Jesus uses word pictures from farming in the New Testament. Jesus often uses the word picture of the harvest or collecting crops to show the good news. The good news is the same as a seed. God plants this “seed” in the hearts of His people and helps it grow strong.

“The seed starts to grow into a plant. This growing plant shows how spiritual life starts and grows in a Christian’s heart. Nature shows us that life must grow. The same is true in our spiritual life. If we don’t grow, we don’t have life. The plant must grow or die. Growth is silent and something we can’t see happening. The same thing is true about how we grow as Christians. God always will help us to improve while we grow. So, we may become perfect in every part of our lives as we grow. We don’t become holy people overnight. God changes our thoughts and feelings during our whole lifetime. When we ask God for help, He changes us. Our knowledge will grow, too.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 65, 66, adapted.