---
title: 'When The Crop Is Ready'
date: 06/04/2023
---

In Revelation 14, we read about two harvests or times when crops are collected. The harvest of golden grain or wheat shows us God’s holy people. Then we see the harvest of grapes. The grapes are covered in blood. These grapes show us the people who have rejected God. Both “harvests” are ripe. They are ready to be picked.

`Read Revelation 14:17–20. Look at verse 19, which says: “So the angel swung [moved] his blade [sharp knife for cutting grain] over [across] the earth. He gathered [collected] its grapes. Then he threw them into a huge [big] winepress [a large container used to make wine]. The winepress stands [is a word picture] for God’s anger” (Revelation 14:19, NIrV). What does this verse show us? Also read Revelation 14:10; Revelation 15:1; and Revelation 16:1 to help answer the question.`

John tells us, “Another angel came from the altar. He had power [control] over fire” (Revelation 14:18, WE). God puts this angel in charge of the special fire that He will use to punish sinners after He finishes His work as Judge. Then the harvest will be ripe. God will not let sin go on any more.Evil things have happened in the past. But things are going to get much worse before history is finished. A loving God has done everything He can do for us. He died on the cross for our sins. “Christ [Jesus] had no sin. But God made him become sin. God did this [made Jesus become sin] for us so that in Christ we could become right with God” (2 Corinthians 5:21, ICB).

What more could God do for us than die on the cross? God can’t do anything to save people who reject His Holy Spirit again and again and refuse to accept His mercy.

Revelation 14 is a powerful end-time message. God’s people will show His love and mercy to everyone in heaven and on earth. Satan’s followers will show lives of selfishness, hate, and lawbreaking. One group of people has the love that’s in the heart of Jesus. The other group shows the hate that’s in the heart of Satan.

Everyone in heaven will see how God’s end-time people behave. This group will be different from any group who ever lived. Humans and angels also will see sin and evil as they haven’t seen them before. Both humans and angels will see that obeying God’s law is the best way to live.