---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 07/04/2023
---

“Here is an important rule for our minds and our hearts: we become changed by whatever we look at and think about. Little by little over time, the mind will become changed by the things we love to think about. We won’t change for the better if we don’t believe in good behavior or in Bible truth. If we live only to please ourselves, we will never become who God planned for us to be. Worse, we will become less than we should be. God’s mercy is the only thing that can help us to change and become better. If God did not help us, we would keep getting worse and worse.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 555, adapted.

Slowly, over time, our thoughts and feelings change because of how we feel and think. If we think good and loving thoughts, we will have strong minds. If we think ugly and selfish thoughts, we will become the same as Satan in our hearts and minds. So, we must be careful about what we think and feel. We must care about God and spiritual things. Then we will grow in faith. Our spiritual lives will be strong. Don’t make the mistake that some people make who say, “Well, I know that one day, Satan’s final attack on God’s people will come. But when it does, I will do what’s right.” God asks us right now, at this moment, to give our lives to Him. If we delay giving ourselves to God now, we will have a hard time obeying God later on. Then we will believe Satan’s lies more and more.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How does God’s mercy save and change us? In Revelation 14:14–20, we read about an important teaching that can help us better understand the answer. This teaching is named the Harvest Rule. A harvest happens when farmers collect their crops from their fields. Revelation 14 uses this idea about collecting crops to show us Jesus’ end-time work as Judge of the whole earth. In verses 14–20, we see the Son of Man, who is sitting on a cloud. As we know, the Son of Man is another name for Jesus. In this word picture, Jesus cuts two crops. One crop is the saved, the other crop is the lost. The two crops show us Jesus separates at the end time. How does the Harvest Rule show us that being saved and being changed are connected?`

`Jesus also is named the Son of Man. Why should this name give you hope as you wait for the Second Coming? Why do we feel better knowing that a Human is in heaven right now and that He is asking God, our Judge, to help us?`