---
title:  Teach Us to Pray
date:   06/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 105:5; Colossians 3:16; James 5:13; Psalm 44; Psalm 22; Psalm 13; Psalm 60:1-5.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “One time [there was a time when] Jesus was praying in a place. When he finished, one of his followers said to him, ‘John taught his followers how to pray. Lord, please teach us how to pray, too’ ” (Luke 11:1, ICB).

Many Christians believe that they can’t plan or write a real prayer. But remember that Jesus’ followers asked Him to teach them how to pray. Jesus gave them a sample prayer.His teaching was a blessing to His followers. God put a prayer book, the book of Psalms, in the middle of the Bible for His people. The Book of Psalms shows us how God’s people prayed in Old Testament times. The Book of Psalms also teaches us how we can pray today.

From early times, the Book of Psalms taught God’s people how to pray (1 Chronicles 16:7, 9; Nehemiah 12:8). When Jesus prayed, He used verses from the Book of Psalms, too (Matthew 27:46). The Bible teaches us to do the same thing in our worship (Ephesians 5:19). This week, we will look at how the Book of Psalms helped God’s people grow in their love for God and in their faith. Remember, the poems in the Book of Psalms are prayers. They teach us about God. These teachings can change the way we pray.

Make the poems in the Book of Psalms your own personal prayers. When we pray the Psalms, our prayer lives will grow strong. We will pray more often, too.