---
title:  How To Use The Book Of Psalms In Prayer
date:   07/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What important part does the Book of Psalms have in the worship experience of Christians? Read Psalm 105:5; Colossians 3:16; and James 5:13 for the answer.`

How can we use the Book of Psalms in daily life? Each day, read a poem from the Book of Psalms. Start with Psalm 1 and read a new poem each day until you reach the end of the book. Another way to read the Book of Psalms is to choose a topic that talks about the same experience you are having. You can choose from many different topics. As we saw last week, one topic is the lament. A lament is a poem about sad feelings. A lament is a cry to God for help. The Book of Psalms also includes thanksgiving poems, praise hymns, songs about confessing sins, and wisdom poems. In wisdom poems, the poets ask God for advice. History poems talk about Israel’s past. There are also poems about anger. Another group of poems is journey songs. People sang journey songs on their way to Jerusalem to worship God.

So, how should we understand the poems in the Book of Psalms? First, read the poem. Then think about it carefully and pray. Notice the way the poet talks to God. What are the reasons for his prayer? How does your own experience match the poet’s experience? How can the poem help you talk about your experience? You will be surprised at how often the poet understands what is happening in your own life.

What happens if you read something that makes you feel that you need to change your behavior or thinking? Ask yourself if the poem is showing you your false hopes. Or is the poem asking you to change something else in your life? Think about what the poem’s message teaches you about Jesus and His work to save you. We will understand an idea better when we look at how it connects with the Cross and God’s forgiveness.

As you read, ask God to write His Bible truth on your heart and mind. If the poem makes you think about someone you know, pray for him or her. When we do these things, the messages from the Book of Psalms will bless our lives.

`“Let the teaching of Christ [Jesus] live inside you richly [the same as a rich treasure]” (Colossians 3:16, ERV). What word picture do you see in this verse? What does it mean? How do Jesus’ teachings live inside us? How does reading the Bible help us have this experience?`