---
title:  Trust In Times Of Trouble
date:   08/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Have you felt that God was very far away? Have you wondered why God lets you suffer and allows bad things to happen? For sure, we all have felt this way. The poets who wrote the Book of Psalms felt this way, too, at times.

`What does Psalm 44 say to us? Why is this message important to Christians in every age of history?`

Have you noticed that there are some poems in the Book of Psalms that we don’t use for worship in church? Why do you think that is so? Maybe we think there are some words in the Book of Psalms we shouldn’t say during worship in church. Or maybe we think that some of the experiences in the Book of Psalms are too horrible and ugly to talk about during public prayer or even in our private worship.

Yes, we must carefully choose the words we say in prayer. At the same time, we must not hide our real fears and feelings inside our hearts. If we don’t tell God how we feel, we will suffer pain. Worse, we won’t learn to trust God. When we make the poems in the Book of Psalms our prayers, we learn to pray with no fear in our hearts. These poems give us the courage to say things we are afraid to say. We learn that God doesn’t expect us to behave as if our suffering and pain aren’t real.

Psalm 44 helps innocent Christians who are suffering. As the poet says: “We did not turn away from you. We did not stop following you. But you crushed [destroyed] us in this home of jackals [wild dogs]. You left us in this place as dark as death” (Psalm 44:18, 19, ERV). But look how the poem starts. The poet talks about how God did wonderful things for His people in the past. So, the poet trusts in God and not “in my bow” (Psalm 44:6, ERV).

Trouble comes to God’s people anyway. The poet makes a list of all his troubles. His sad song is long and painful. Does the poet give up hope that God will save His people? No. The poet prays, “Because of your love, save us” (Psalm 44:26, ICB). As bad as Israel’s troubles are, the poet knows that God hears His people and loves them.

`Remember a time when God saved you in the past. How close to God did you feel in your heart? How can remembering that time help you when your troubles make you think God is far away?`