---
title:  A Very Sad Song
date:   09/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Yesterday we learned how our prayer life improves when we make the poems in the Book of Psalms our personal prayers. These poems also give us hope. They help us to know that God is very near to our hearts.

`Read Psalm 22. What can we learn from this poem about trusting in God when we suffer?`

The sad words in Psalm 22:1 may give suffering people the words they need to share their feelings of sorrow and loneliness. The poet cries, “My God, my God, why have you left me alone? You are too far away to save me. You are too far away to hear my moans” (Psalm 22:1, ICB).

These words are well-known to Christians. Jesus said these words while He hung on the cross. When Jesus said them, He showed us how important the Book of Psalms was to His experience as our Savior (read Matthew 27:46).

The poet also says words of hope in the same poem: “I will praise you when your people meet to worship you” (Psalm 22:22, ICB). Compare verse 22 with verse 1. Verse 1 is filled with suffering and pain. But verse 22 is filled with faith and praise. The words and feelings of hope in verse 22 don’t match the sad feelings and experience of suffering in verse 1. So, how can the poet praise God while he suffers so much? Because the poet trusts in God.

We can have this experience, too. When we pray the words of Psalm 22, we learn to look beyond our suffering. We look with the eyes of faith to the time when God will heal us with His mercy and make our lives new.

When we make the poems in the Book of Psalms our prayers, we will grow in spiritual strength and understanding. The Book of Psalms gives us words for our most painful feelings and experiences. Best of all, the Book of Psalms doesn’t leave us in our pain. Its poems help us to be free from pain, hurt, disappointment, anger, and sadness. The poems teach us to trust in God always.

We saw how Psalm 22 starts with sadness and ends with praise. Many poems in the Book of Psalms do the same thing. This experience from sadness to praise shows us the change that happens when we accept God’s mercy.

`How can we learn to look beyond our troubles and trust in God?`