---
title:  From Feeling Hopeless To Hope
date:   10/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We’ve all felt, at times, that God was far away. During hard times, we may think, Why is God allowing me to suffer? The poets who wrote the Book of Psalms often thought the same thing, too. Yes, our sins cause us to suffer. But sometimes our suffering isn’t our fault and isn’t fair. We’ve all felt this way, right?

`Read Psalm 13. What two feelings does the poet talk about in this poem? What decision do you think the poet made that caused him to change his view of things?`

“How long will you forget me, Lord? How long will you hide from me? Forever?” (Psalm 13:1, ICB). Again, who doesn’t feel this way, at times? (Does God really forget us? Of course not! So, we shouldn’t feel this way at all.)

Sometimes when we pray, we think only about ourselves and our problems. Praying only about our problems is a mistake. Psalm 13 shows us that we should remember God and His mercy to us when we pray. We should tell God that we believe He always keeps His promises. He never changes.

Of course, Psalm 13 starts with cries and complaints. But the poem doesn’t end with complaints and tears. We must remember this important Bible truth.

Psalm 13 teaches us to trust in God’s saving mercy and love (Psalm 13:5). When we trust in God to save us, our fear and worry (Psalm 13:1-4) will disappear. Then our hearts will change. Our cries will become songs of joy and praise. We will no longer feel hopeless.

If we want this change to happen, we must do more than only read the words of Psalm 13. We must believe them. When we pray Psalm 13, we must ask the Holy Spirit to help us to live in the way that this poem asks. The poems in the Book of Psalms are the Living Word of God, the Bible. God’s Word changes our lives, our hearts, and our behavior. When we allow God’s Word, the Bible, to change us, then we join with Jesus. As God’s Son, Jesus showed God’s perfect plan in every part of His life. Jesus made the poems in the Book of Psalms His prayers. We should, too.

`How can your troubles bring you close to God in your heart? Also, why, if you aren’t careful, can your troubles push you away from Him?`