---
title:  Please Come Back To Us
date:   11/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 60:1-5. Psalm 60 is a lament. We learned that laments were sad songs or poems. This lament is also a prayer. What do you think would be the best time to pray a lament? How can we get a blessing from reading the sad songs in the Book of Psalms during the times when our lives are filled with joy, and we feel happy?`

The laments are a special group of songs or poems in the Book of Psalms. As we saw, these sad songs are also prayers. The laments talk about the experiences of people during hard times. These experiences may include sickness, sorrow, or spiritual suffering. Sometimes a lament may include all three experiences.

Should we read the laments in the Book of Psalms only when we are suffering? Of course not. The laments can bless us in many ways, during both happy and sad times in life.

The sad songs in the Book of Psalms teach us to love people who suffer. When we pray in public and thank God for His blessings, we must remember people who suffer. For sure, things may be going well for us right now. But what about the people all around us who suffer in terrible ways? When we make the sad songs in the Book of Psalms our prayers, we remember the ones who are in hard times. The Book of Psalms should fill us with love for people in pain and cause us to want to help them, just as Jesus did.

“This earth is the same as a big hospital filled with very sick people. Jesus came to heal the sick. Jesus also came to announce that He will save people from Satan. Jesus had health and strength. He gave His life to save the sick, the suffering, and people filled with demons. Jesus accepted everyone who came to Him for healing. Jesus knew that the people who asked Him for help had caused their own sickness. Jesus didn’t refuse to heal them. Love from Jesus entered these sick ones. They were convinced that they had sinned. Jesus healed the spirits and the bodies of many of these people. The Good News about Jesus is as powerful today as it was back then. So, we should expect to see the same miracles happen today.”
—Ellen G. White, _Welfare Ministry_, pages 24, 25, adapted.

`Do you know anyone right now who needs your prayers and God’s healing touch? Pray for this person right now. Ask Jesus to help you be a blessing to this person’s life.`