---
title:  Additional thought
date:   12/01/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Psalm 42:8, and Ellen G. White, “Poetry and Song,” pages 159-168, in _Education_. As Psalm 42 and the book _Education_ show us, how are prayer and song connected?

In many poems, David wrote about how he was sorry for his sins. (A well-known example is Psalm 51.) Ellen G. White says that these poems are prayers that show real sadness for sin (read Steps to Christ, pages 24, 25). Ellen G. White encourages Christians to learn verses from the Book of Psalms to help them feel that God is close to them in their hearts and lives. Ellen G. White also talks about how Jesus sang verses from the Book of Psalms when Satan tried to get Him to sin or make Him feel afraid. Ellen G. White tells us: “Many times the words of holy songs fill our hearts with faith. These songs make us feel sorry for our sins. They give us hope, love, and joy! . . . For sure, many songs are prayers.”—_Education_, pages 162-168, adapted.

When we pray and sing the poems and songs in the Book of Psalms, the faith, courage, and hope of the poets become ours, too. The poets who wrote the Book of Psalms help encourage us to continue our spiritual journey, and not give up. The poets give us comfort. They help us know that we aren’t alone. Other people, the same as us, have suffered in dark times. With God’s mercy, they won the fight against evil. The Book of Psalms also shows us how Jesus works to save us. He lives always to pray for us (Hebrews 7:25).

The poems in the Book of Psalms are prayers and songs. Men wrote them. But the poems come from God. So, when we include the Book of Psalms in our worship, we learn God’s plan for us. His powerful mercy will heal us, too.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Remember, we learned that we can plan our prayers. Why is planning our prayers a good way to pray? How can the Book of Psalms improve our prayer life?`

`How can the Book of Psalms improve our public or group-prayer experience? What are some ways your church can use the Book of Psalms in its worship?`

`What does the Book of Psalms teach us about faith and God’s healing mercy?`