---
title:  Forever With Jesus
date:   20/06/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 80; 1 Thes­salonians 4:17; Revelation 21:9–11; Isaiah 25:8; Matthew 11:28–30.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “My friends, we are already children of God. We do not yet [already] know clearly [really] what we will become. But we do know this [promise]: when Christ [Jesus] returns [comes back] to this world [earth], we will become like [the same as] him. We will be like him because we will see him as he really is” (1 John 3:2, EASY).

What will happen in your future? Do you think it will be exciting? Scary? Wonderful? Whatever happens, you can trust Jesus and the things He says (Revelation 3:14). For sure, hard times will come (Matthew 24:21, 22). But Jesus promises that He won’t leave us (Hebrews 13:5). Jesus always will do what He says. Now and forever (Hebrews 10:23). He promises, “ ‘But God will save the person who remains strong until the end’ ” (Matthew 24:13, EASY).

We don’t know how long we will live. But we do know we should keep our eyes on Jesus. Keeping our eyes on Jesus isn’t always easy in this life. So many things try to take our attention away from Jesus. But with David we may say, “I always look to the Lord for help. Only he can free me from my troubles” (Psalm 25:15, ERV).

This week, let’s learn about the reward of heaven (Matthew 5:12; Revelation 22:12). How wonderful will it be finally to be with the God who made us, died for us, and saved us. He’s coming back for us soon. We need to hold on in faith until then.