---
title:  Living Today
date:   21/06/2026
---

When we look around, we see that this earth is in trouble. The signs that Jesus told us about are happening in front of our eyes. Wars, food shortages, disease, earthquakes, and suffering (Matthew 24:6–11) are getting worse as time continues. Yes, we live in terrible times. That’s why we need a living relationship with God.

The Bible says, “The end of all things is near. So be watchful and control yourselves. Then you may pray” (1 Peter 4:7, NIrV). Now more than ever, we must keep our minds and our personal relationship with God strong. We don’t know how much longer our lives will continue. Our lives are really short, even if we live a long time. “You who say, ‘Today or tomorrow we will go to this city and stay a year and make money.’ You do not know about tomorrow. What is your life? It is like [the same as] fog. You see it and soon it is gone” (James 4:13, 14, NLV). We know this warning is true, right? You who are reading these words now may not be alive before the day ends. We live on a planet filled with sin. So, we must make sure that our relationship with God is strong. Always remember your need of Him and His saving love.

`Psalm 80 is a beautiful prayer to God. Read the whole poem and think about verses 1–3, 14–17, 18, and 19. Put the word “I” or “me” where it says “me” or “us.” Of course, Psalm 80 was written in a different time and place than our own. But how does this poem show your own experience with God?`

We all need new spiritual life. We easily forget the things God does for us now and in the past. Did you ever say the same thing the poet says in Psalm 80:19? “O Lord God of all [everyone], bring us back [make us new again] to You. Make Your face shine [may you be pleased with; smile] upon [on] us, and we will be saved” (NLV). You must accept what Jesus did for you at the cross. You must believe He forgives your sins. Believe that He puts on you His life of perfect obedience, the same as clothes. When you know these things, you can trust that He saves you!

`Jesus saves us with His life of perfect obedience. Knowing this Bible truth, what does it mean that God’s face “shines” on us?`