---
title:  Finally Face-to-Face
date:   22/06/2026
---

God made us to be in a close relationship with Him (Genesis 2:7). Since the time when God first made us, He gave everything to heal our broken relationship with Him (John 3:16). God put the wish for heaven in our hearts. Even so, we have trouble understanding everything God did and will do from the beginning to the end of time (Ecclesiastes 3:11). We’re part of the worldwide war between good and evil. This war is happening all around us. And in us. But too often we don’t take the time to think about the price God paid to save us so that He may accept us again. Too often, we are so busy with our problems in this life. We don’t remember that “the home where we belong is in heaven. We are waiting for the Lord Jesus Christ to come from there. He is the one who will come from heaven and save us. He will change these weak bodies that we have now on this earth. He will make them become strong and beautiful, like [the same as] his own body that he has in heaven” (Philippians 3:20, 21, EASY).

We are getting closer to the end of human history. Soon a small dark cloud will appear in the eastern sky. As the cloud comes closer, it will grow more and more white and bright. Then we’ll see who sits on the cloud: someone “who looked like [the same as] the Son of Man. He had a gold crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand” (Revelation 14:14, ERV). Thousands and thousands of angels will come with Jesus (Matthew 25:31). Every person will see Jesus come (Revelation 1:7). As Jesus comes closer, we’ll hear His shout. He will blow the trumpet. The graves will open. The dead will wake up first and join Jesus in the clouds (1 Thessalonians 4:16). The dead will know the voice of Jesus when He shouts for them to wake up (John 5:28).

`What will happen next? Read 1 Thessalonians 4:17 for the answer. What does Philippians 2:10, 11 say will also happen?`

We will see Jesus. Really see Him. Isn’t that wonderful? We will hear His voice. We will confess He is Lord. Before His coming, we prayed to Him. We talked to other people about Him. Now we will see Him face-to-face. We can trust this promise (Revelation 22:6).

In that instant, when we see Jesus face-to-face (Revelation 22:4), we will know He was worth the wait.