---
title:  Follow The Lamb
date:   24/06/2026
---

What do you want to do most when you get to heaven? A child may answer, “Ride a tiger!” Or “Slide down a giraffe’s neck!” Or “Fly to different planets!” If you ask teenagers what they will enjoy most in heaven, they may answer, “Not doing any more homework.” Or “Exploring heaven with my friends without getting hurt.” Adults may say, “Being in a place with no more pain, suffering, or death.” Or “Meeting loved ones again.” These answers are wonderful. We have so much to enjoy in the new heaven and new earth. God put a wish for heaven in our hearts. We know there must be something more to life than what is here and now.

`What other blessings will we enjoy in the new heaven and new earth? Read Isaiah 25:8; Revelation 7:17; and Revelation 21:4 for the answer.`

For sure, the best blessing of heaven will be finally to see Jesus. We can thank Him, in person, for everything He did for us in this life. We will worship Him for saving us on the cross. We will join the angels in singing, “ ‘All power, wealth, wisdom, and strength belong to the Lamb who was killed. He is worthy to receive [get] honor, glory, and praise!’ ” (Revelation 5:12, ERV).

John the Baptist introduced Jesus as the “Lamb of God” (John 1:36, ERV; also read verses 35, 37). Jesus’ followers followed closely behind Him. Revelation 14:4 says we will do the same: “They follow the Lamb wherever He goes” (Revelation 14:4, NLV). Do you want to follow Jesus in heaven? You must first follow Him here on earth.

Jesus, the Lamb, is also our Shepherd. He leads us as no one else can. We may have hard times now. But Jesus won’t stop leading us, even in heaven. Revelation 7:17 says, “ ‘The Lamb who is in front of the throne will take care of them. He will guide them to the places where there is water that gives life’ ” (WE). As His people, His sheep, we will follow Jesus in heaven. We will want to be with Him forever. “His name will be on the front of their heads” (Revelation 22:4, EASY). This verse shows that we will always be thinking about Jesus.

`Watch the Seventh-day Adventist gospel song “Follow the Lamb” at https://vimeo.com/1067821589. Sing the words as your personal prayer today.`