---
title:  Come!
date:   25/06/2026
---

Jesus invites us, again, today: ‘Come!’

`Read the following verses: Matthew 11:28–30; Isaiah 55:1–3; and John 6:44. Notice Jesus’ invitation for you to come to Him.`

The Holy Spirit wants you to accept Jesus today. Jesus invites you to come to Him. He wants you to live in Him today, and every day, until He comes. When you accept Jesus’ invitation, you will feel peace. You may be a terrible sinner, but you know that Jesus will make you strong. He will wake up the dead when He comes back. Jesus said, “ ‘When anyone comes to me, I will never send that person away’ ” (John 6:37, EASY).

We must work with the Holy Spirit to invite other people to have a saving relationship with Jesus. “The Holy Spirit and the bride say, ‘Come!’ And the person who hears should say, ‘Come!’ Anyone who is thirsty should come. Anyone who wants to take the free gift of the water of life should do so’ ” (Revelation 22:17, NIrV).

God’s invitation is free. He offers it to us as a gift. When we accept Him into our lives, we must each love Him with all our heart, mind, spirit, and strength (Deuteronomy 6:5). Then our life here and in the future will be forever changed for the better.

Look at what the last words in the Bible promise us: “Jesus is a witness about these things. He says, ‘Yes. I am coming soon.’ Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!” (Revelation 22:20, NIrV).

How soon is Jesus coming? From our view, we close our eyes in death, then the next thing we know will be Jesus’ coming. Our lives are very short. That’s how fast Jesus is coming back for us. Maybe your first thought when you wake up from the dead will be, “Wow, Lord, Your coming was really soon!”

Don’t grow tired of waiting for Jesus. Keep your love for Him alive and your wish to see Him. Trust in the love of God. Have faith in Him. Yes, Lord Jesus, please come!

`Pray right now for the faith to wait for God and to stay loyal to Him. Ask Him for the faith to help you give your life completely to Him. He died for you. He is coming back soon for you, too.`