---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   26/06/2026
---

“If we want to accept the religion of Jesus, we must read the Bible. If we don’t, we shall not enter into the city of God. If we love only the things of this life, we will not love the things in heaven. They would not interest us. The voices of the angels and the music of their harps would not satisfy us. We wouldn’t understand the wisdom of heaven. We must want Jesus’ life of perfect obedience in our hearts. His love and forgiveness must change us. Then we may be ready for the fellowship of angels. . . .

“Then the saints will know no other law than the law of heaven. Everyone will be happy and part of one big family. Everyone will offer praise and thanksgiving to God. . . . The angels of God will sing and shout with joy. God the Father and Jesus the Son will announce, ‘Nobody will ever die again.’ [Revelation 21:4, EASY].

“Make a habit of talking about heaven. Heaven is very beautiful. Talk about the life that will continue as long as God shall live. Then you won’t remember your little problems and troubles. Think about God.”—Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By, page 363, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Read Ellen G. White’s vision about heaven in Early Writings, pages 14–20. What is the most interesting thing to you about this vision?`

`What part of this quarter’s lessons do you want to remember most? How will this Bible truth help you keep your relationship with God strong until you see Jesus face-to-face?`

`Who in your life needs to hear about the hope of heaven? Share with this person as soon as you can. Remember: you can’t share with them hope that you don’t have.`