---
title:  The Law
date:   29/10/2017
---

In Romans 3:31, Paul makes it very clear that faith does not put an end to God’s law. Not even these Jews in Old Testament times who obeyed the whole law were saved by that law. The religion of the Old Testament always has been the same as that of the New Testament. Both Testaments teach us that we are saved by the gift of God’s loving-favor.

`How does Romans 4:1–8 show that in the Old Testament our being saved also came by faith alone?`

The story in Genesis 15 shows that in God’s eyes Abraham was made right with God. Why? Because Abraham “ ‘believed God’ ” (Romans 4:3, NIrV). So, we see that the Old Testament also teaches about righteousness by faith. Righteousness by faith is God’s power to make people right with Him. Jesus offers this saving power to everyone who will accept it by faith. And this gift includes the power to obey the law. As we have learned, righteousness means to obey the law. So, the idea that faith somehow “destroy[s] the law” is false (Romans 3:31, ICB).

“Destroy” comes from the Greek word *katargeo*. It means to cause something to lose all value. But the Old Testament does not teach that faith destroys the law. Instead, the Old Testament teaches we are saved by God's loving-favor. God’s loving-favor is taught everywhere in the Old Testament. We see the truth about God’s loving-favor in the animals used in the Jewish plan of worship. The use of these animals taught sinners they were saved by the death of a substitute.  

What else but God’s loving-favor can explain how God forgave David after his sin against Bathsheba? Clearly, David’s obedience to the law did not save him. After all, David broke so many laws. What if David had to trust in the law to save him? Then David would not have been saved at all.

Paul points to David as an example of justification by faith. Justification by faith is the teaching that we are made right with God by faith. God forgave David. And God’s for-giving David shows us God’s loving-favor in action.

`What hope can you take from David’s story (2 Samuel 11, 12; Psalm 51)? What does David’s story teach us about how we should forgive people who fall into sin?`
