---
title:  Punishment or Mercy?
date:   30/10/2017
---

In Romans 4, Paul talks about our connection to God. First, let us discuss what our connection to God is *not* about. Think about the example of people who believe they must earn God’s loving-favor. These people feel they must live holy lives first before God will accept them. They would, of course, trust in their own works to save them. Often, we are in danger of making self too important in our religious experience. That is the last thing we need.

But we will be safe if we understand that our being made right with God is a gift. We did nothing to earn this gift. We are not worthy of it. This truth makes it easier to fill our minds with thoughts of God’s mercy instead of with self. In the end, who is going to show the love of God? People who are full of self? Or people who fill their minds with thoughts of God?

`What does Paul say in Romans 4:6–8 about the truth that God makes us right with Him by faith?`

“The sinner must come in faith to Jesus. The sinner must take hold of Jesus’ power. Then God will make the sinner right with Him. Jesus came to this earth to make a way for the sinner to lay his sins on Jesus and to be pardoned. Jesus’ holy life is added to the sinner’s life record. Then the forgiven sinner becomes a member of the royal family in heaven.”—Ellen G. White, *Selected Messages*, book 1, page 215, adapted.

Paul explains that being saved by faith is not just for the Jews. It is also for the Gentiles. The Gentiles are non-Jews (Romans 4:9–12). Abraham himself was not Jewish. Abraham came from people who were pagans (Joshua 24:2). Pagans were people who believed in many gods. So, there were no Jews before Abraham’s time. Also, Abraham was made right with God (Genesis 15:6) *before* he was circumcised. To be circumcised means that the extra skin at the end of the male sex organ is cut off. Abraham became the father of people who were not circumcised and people who were. For Paul, Abraham is a powerful example of the truth that God’s plan to save sinners is for everyone. In the same way, Jesus’ death was for all people (Hebrews 2:9).

`What does the Cross tell us about how much every human is worth in God's eyes?`
