---
title:  The Promise
date:   31/10/2017
---

On this day, 500 years ago, Martin Luther nailed his 95 Beliefs to the door of the Wittenberg Church in Germany. How interesting that the topic for today also gets right to the heart of what it means for us to be saved by faith.

In Romans 4:13, Paul gives us his teaching about righteousness by faith. This teaching explains that God makes us right with Him by our faith. This teaching also means that God gives us power to obey His law. Paul wants to build his teaching on the Old Testament. So, Paul uses Abraham as his example. All Jews accepted Abraham as their father. We already learned that Abraham was made right with God. But Abraham was not saved because he obeyed the “law.” Instead, Abraham believed God’s promise (Romans 4:13). So, God accepted Abraham. Then God worked in Abraham to save humans. What a powerful example of how God’s loving-favor works!

`Read Romans 4:14–17 and Galatians 3:7–9. Paul continues in these verses to show that the teaching that we are saved by faith is very important in the Old Testament. How does Paul do that? `

It is important to remember who Paul was writing to. Paul writes to Jewish believers. They respected Old Testament law. Many of them believed that they were saved because of how well they obeyed the law. But the Old Testament does not teach this idea.

Paul wants to correct the thinking of these Jewish believers. So, Paul argues that Abraham did not earn God’s promises by obeying the law. Instead, God gave His promises to Abraham when Abraham believed God. God gave His promises to Abraham even before He gave the law to Moses at Mount Sinai. In Abraham’s day, the books of Moses had not been written. And there was no Jewish plan of worship. So, it is clear. The only way Abraham could have gotten God’s promises was by believing in them.

Paul says that our trying to earn God’s promises by obedience to the law makes faith useless. Those words are strong. But the idea that Paul wants us to understand is that faith saves. And the law shows us our guilt. So, it is useless for us to try to be saved by the very thing that shows us our guilt. Everyone has broken the law. So, we all need what Abraham needed: we need Jesus' saving power.
