---
title:  Law and Faith
date:   01/11/2017
---

Paul showed that God’s promise to Abraham proved that we are saved by God’s loving-favor. We are not saved by the law. So, the Jews would need to stop trusting in their works to save them. Instead, the Jews needed to accept the promise God made to Abraham. This promise came true when Jesus came to earth in a human body. What is true for the Jews in Paul’s day is true for Christians today. Our “good” works cannot make us right with God.

`“All false religions are built on the idea that humans can save themselves by their own works. People who believe this false teaching have no power over sin.” — Ellen G. White, *The Desire of Ages*, pages 35, 36, adapted.  What do these words from *The Desire of Ages* mean?`

`As shown by Paul in Galatians 3:21–23, how should we understand the connection between law and faith?`

What if there had been a law that could give life to the person who obeyed it? Then God’s law would have been the law to do that. But Paul says that no law can give life. Not even God’s. Why? Because everyone is guilty of break-ing the law. And so, no one can be made right with God by obedience.

But God’s promise to save us by faith frees everyone from sin who believes. This promise was shown more fully in Jesus. Jesus showed that faith frees everyone who believes from being “locked up” by the law (Galatians 3:23, NIrV). What does being “locked up” by the law mean? Paul uses this word picture to explain how the law acts the same as a prison guard. The law shows us our sin. And so, we are “locked up” by our guilt. We are sentenced to death. But God’s promise to save us by faith in Jesus frees us from the prison of guilt, sin, and death. Our belief in Jesus frees us from having to earn God’s loving-favor by obeying the law. The law also becomes a heavy load when it is taught without mercy. The law also becomes a heavy load when it is taught without showing people they need faith in God’s power to win the war over sin. So, we must have God’s loving-favor. Or we cannot be free from the guilt of breaking the law or from sin's power.
