---
title:  The Law and Sin
date:   02/11/2017
---

Some people believe that God’s loving-favor frees us from the need to obey the law. People who believe this idea use the same Bible verses again and again to prove their teaching. But this teaching is false.

`What do 1 John 2:3–6; 1 John 3:4; and Romans 3:20 tell us about the connection between law and sin?`

Now, what if God’s loving-favor really did make the law “useless” (Romans 3:31, NIrV)? Then we must ask, “Why do lying, murder, and stealing continue to be wrong?” If God’s law has been changed, then the meaning of sin must be changed too. Or if God’s law had been destroyed, then there would be no more sin either. Who believes there is no sin? (Read 1 John 1:7–10 and James 1:14, 15.)

The New Testament tells us about the law and the Good News. The law shows us what sin is. The Good News points to the only thing that can heal us from sin. And that is Jesus’ death and His return to life. So, if there really were no law, then that would mean there was no sin. And then we would need to ask, “What are we saved from?” The answer shows that the law helps us understand what the Good News was meant to do in our lives. And the law can do that only because we must continue to obey it.

But there are other people who say the Cross made the law useless. What a strange idea! After all, Jesus had to die because we broke the law. His death on the cross shows us that the law cannot be changed or thrown out. God did not change the law or throw it out before Jesus died on the Cross. So, why would God throw the law out or change the law after the cross? Why not just get rid of the law after Adam and Eve sinned? Then God could have saved humans from having to suffer the legal penalty that comes with breaking the law. That way, Jesus never needed to die. But Jesus’ death shows us that God did not throw out the law or change it. Any change to the law should have taken place before, not after, the Cross. Finally, what if the law could have been changed so that we would not need to obey it? Then that plan would have been a better way to solve the sin problem than nailing Jesus to the cross.

`Why must we continue to obey God's law?`
