---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   03/11/2017
---

“In Romans 4:4, Paul explains the meaning of Genesis 15:4–6. Paul wants to prove from Genesis that our being made right with God is by faith. We are not made right with God by our obedience to the law. Paul explains Genesis 15:6: ‘ “God accepted Abraham because he believed. So his faith made him right with God” ’ [NIrV]. These words show us that God accepts sinners by His loving-favor and not because of their works.”—Martin Luther, *Commentary [Explanation] on Romans*, page 82, adapted.

“Satan knows he will win if he can get humans to put value on their own good works. Then Satan can defeat them. Satan leads humans to give into the desire to sin. Satan tries to make humans his slaves. He traps them in sin. Satan acts the same as a wild animal that hunts down and catches other animals for food. Our only hope against Satan is the blood of Jesus. Jesus is the Lamb of God. We must ask God by faith to put the blood of Jesus on the doorframes of our hearts. It is the only way for us to be safe from Satan’s tricks.”—Ellen G. White, *Advent Review and Sabbath Herald*, September 3, 1889, adapted. (Note: “the blood of Jesus on the doorframes of our hearts” is a word picture from the Old Testament. It shows how the Lamb of God was the only hope for the children of Israel on the night when God freed them from Egypt. On that night, Moses commanded the children of Israel to put the blood of a lamb on the top and sides of the doorframes of their homes. The blood was a symbol. It pointed to Jesus’ saving power. The destroying angel would pass over the homes marked with blood. All who were in those houses would be safe.)

**Discussion Questions**

`1. Why is it important to understand that we are saved by faith alone? What false teachings and dangers does that truth protect us from?`

`2. The law does not save us. But why must we obey the law?`

`3. The Protestant Reformation was a time of big religious change in the 1500s. Its most important question was: “How are we saved?” What are the differences between Catholics and Protestants on this idea?`
