---
title:  Further Thought
date:  25/03/2022
---

“After the descent of the Holy Spirit, . . . [believers] rejoiced in the sweetness of communion with saints. They were tender, thoughtful, self-denying, willing to make any sacrifice for the truth’s sake. In their daily association with one another, they revealed the love that Christ had enjoined upon them. By unselfish words and deeds they strove to kindle this love in other hearts. . . .

“But gradually a change came. The believers began to look for defects in others. Dwelling upon mistakes, giving place to unkind criticism, they lost sight of the Saviour and His love. They became more strict in regard to outward ceremonies, more particular about the theory than the practice of the faith. In their zeal to condemn others, they overlooked their own errors. They lost the brotherly love that Christ had enjoined, and, saddest of all, they were unconscious of their loss. They did not realize that happiness and joy were going out of their lives and that, having shut the love of God out of their hearts, they would soon walk in darkness.

“John, realizing that brotherly love was waning in the church, urged upon believers the constant need of this love. His letters to the church are full of this thought. ‘Beloved, let us love one another,’ he writes; ‘for love is of God; and everyone that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love. In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent His only-begotten Son into the world, that we might live through Him. Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that He loved us, and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another.’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 547, 548.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Christian life often is considered the personal, individual relationship between Jesus and the believer. This is, however, only one aspect of the Christian life. Why is it important to remember that God is leading us as a group? What are my responsibilities to the group? What can I expect from the group?`

`What are the best indicators that brotherly love is strong in a congregation? Be prepared to create a list in your Sabbath School class.`

`What is true brotherly love? What are its characteristics, causes, and results? How would you differentiate it from false brotherly love?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Sons and Daughters of God_, “All Nations Are Gathered in Judgment,” p. 361;<br/>
_Lift Him Up_, “Surrender to Christ,” p. 245.<br/>