---
title: An Elderly Warrior
date: 23/11/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Lesson's Passage:** Joshua 13, 14

**An Elderly Warrior**

If there’s ever a time to capitalize on the strength of youth and young adults, it’s during a time of war. Elderly men are not your typical military recruits. Nevertheless, in the book of Joshua, Caleb was age eighty-five when he volunteered to fight the biggest giants in Canaan to claim the toughest mountain in the area. It would be natural to leave the fiercest battles for the young warriors, but even in his sunset years, Caleb signed up for the toughest challenge of his life. Joshua too was not a young man when he led the conquest of Canaan (Josh. 13:1). In the Israelite army, young and old stood united in a common mission. The story of Caleb and Joshua reminds us how God accepts people’s work at every stage of life. Sometimes, people make their best contributions when least expected.

Nobody should carelessly excuse themselves or others from the Lord’s work just because they consider themselves too old or too young. Too often, churches get into generational wars where the younger push their ideas and the older defend their traditions, but the church should be a place where young and old learn to work together and form close cross-generational relationships. Today’s world is fast-paced and changing constantly, which can sometimes leave older people behind regarding the latest technological advances and other trends. However, rather than looking at elderly people as being in the way of progress, they should be seen as one of the church’s most important assets. Young people, with their strength and their insight, are needed too. Standing shoulder to shoulder and cooperating with each other, both young and old can gain great victories in the work of the Lord.

Knowing Caleb’s age when he inherited Hebron helps form an important timeline. Caleb said he was forty years old when he served as one of the twelve spies who first stepped foot in Canaan (Josh. 14:7). Caleb and Joshua had great faith that God would give them the land, but the other ten spies, convinced the camp of Israel that conquering Canaan was impossible. Because of their unbelief, God delayed their entrance into Canaan and redirected the Israelites back into the wilderness. Forty-five years later, Caleb was finally receiving what he had believed all along. Through all the years of wilderness wandering, Caleb never lost his faith in the promises of God. We know the Israelites wandered in the wilderness thirty-eight years after the events at Kadesh Barnea (Deut. 2:14), so it’s a simple matter of subtracting thirty-eight from forty-five to conclude that Caleb inherited Hebron about seven years after Israel finally crossed into Canaan. This means the wars described in the book of Joshua took six or seven years. These battles required great endurance and perseverance. Joshua had finally conquered Canaan: “So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that the LORD had said to Moses; and Joshua gave it as an inheritance to Israel according to their divisions by their tribes. Then the land rested from war” (Josh. 11:23). However, although Joshua’s work of conquest was complete, pockets of Canaanite enclaves remained: “Now Joshua was old, advanced in years. And the LORD said to him: ‘You are old, advanced in years, and there remains very much land yet to be possessed… now therefore, divide this land as an inheritance to the nine tribes and half the tribe of Manasseh’ ” (13:1, 7).

The Reubenites, Gadites, and half the tribe of Manasseh had already received their lands on the eastern side of the Jordan. What remained was to divide the land among the remaining tribes that had yet to receive their inheritance. It would then become each tribe’s responsibility to clear out the remaining Canaanites from their respective territories. Caleb was the first to receive his inheritance. He asked Joshua to give him the mountain of the Anakim, inhabited by a tribe of formidable giants. Caleb said, “It may be that the Lord will be with me, and I shall be able to drive them out as the Lord said” (14:12). So it was that after forty-five years, Caleb finally received the reward God had promised him at Kadesh Barnea.

### inScribe

_Write out Joshua 14:6–14 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map all of Joshua 13, 14._

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `