---
title: 'An Unfinished Work'
date: 24/11/2025
---

### inGest

Six to seven years of hard fighting followed the forty years of wandering in the wilderness. God systematically led Joshua through the land until he irreversibly broke the Canaanite kings’ military might. Each conflict was more challenging than the last, yet each battle and ensuing victory strengthened Israel’s faith.

When at last the land was subdued, God gave Joshua permission to rest (Josh. 11:23). He had fought faithfully, demonstrating courage in the face of adversity. When met with his mistakes, he had shown humility. He had done the work God had called him to do. Yet the conquest of Canaan was incomplete. While Israel controlled most of the territory, more work remained. Once the land had been divided among the tribes, God wanted each tribe to take responsibility for continuing the warfare in their respective territories. God wanted them to subdue the land completely. Joshua had set a good example of faithfulness and fidelity, and it was up to Israel to finish the work he had started. They had more challenges to overcome, but they were tempted to rest and enjoy their past victories rather than pressing onward to achieve new conquests.

It’s easy to experience the same spiritual complacency in our own lives, being willing to settle for an average Christian experience rather than striving for spiritual excellence through deeper communion with Christ. We often feel satisfied going only as far as the generation before us has gone when God is calling us to claim new victories and enter uncharted territory for Him. We must not measure ourselves by those around us but recognize God’s call to advance further.

The stories of warfare in Joshua serve as a symbol of our own spiritual battles. Paul taught that “we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places” (Eph. 6:12). We are engaged in a great war fraught with eternal consequences. The inheritance of the heavenly Canaan is our goal, and we cannot be satisfied with partial victory when Jesus offers something better. “Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand” (v. 13). God wants to help us gain complete victories in the spiritual battles we fight.

**Questions to explore from this passage:**

`In what ways are you tempted to be complacent with an unfinished work?`