---
title: 'Give Me This Mountain'
date: 25/11/2025
---

### inTerpret

Caleb was one of the twelve spies initially sent to gather information about the land when Israel camped at Kadesh Barnea. Of those twelve, only Joshua joined him in presenting a positive report of their exploration. Their report was so sharply at odds with the other spies’ report that the ten were ready to kill Caleb and Joshua for disagreeing with them. Caleb’s dissent hinged on his belief that God was able to deliver the fiercest warriors of Canaan into Israel’s hands. His faith was drowned out by loud, angry protests, which resulted in an unnecessary forty-year trek through the wilderness.

After he joined the rest of Israel in subduing the land, Caleb came forward to stake his original claim: “Now therefore, give me this mountain of which the LORD spoke in that day” (Josh. 14:12). Caleb was asking for the toughest mountain in the whole region. Rather than looking for the easiest assignment, he volunteered to take one of the most difficult. This was not out of self-importance or pride. Caleb had a humble trust in God and placed the success of the mission in God’s hands. He wanted the world to see his faith in God and confidence in God’s promises.

When we think of mission work, it’s natural for us to pick the easiest ground, somewhere with receptive hearts and great openness to the gospel message. Rarely are we eager to venture into hostile territory—areas with strong resistance. However, sometimes God calls us to go where the risks are high and the challenges enormous. God does not call us to seek convenience or ease. Paul ventured into some of the toughest cities in the world, preaching the good news of Jesus—into Athens, Corinth, Rome, and Ephesus, among others. These were centers of ardent pagan worship, deeply devoted to their respective gods and their pagan philosophies. Paul entered these territories, boldly declaring that he was “not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes” (Rom. 1:16). While Paul did not see thousands baptized in a single day as Peter did at Pentecost and was often chased out of town, his faithful work in these difficult fields established a firm foundation of faith that has continued to grow ever since. In these last days, God has commissioned us to take the everlasting gospel to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people (Rev. 14:6), no matter how difficult the obstacles are. Accepting this call requires unbending courage and genuine faith.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What mountain is God calling you to claim, regardless of your age or society’s expectations?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Joshua 13, 14. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._