---
title: 'Slaying the Giants'
date: 27/11/2025
---

### inVite

Occupying the Promised Land without slaying the giants wasn’t possible. Caleb, at age eighty-five, was ready to tackle the mountain where lived the Anakim, the most feared of all the giants. Caleb’s courage was not because he had something to prove but because he believed God’s word could be trusted. The occupation of Canaan, while historically factual, also serves as a spiritual allegory, offering us lessons about the heavenly Canaan God has promised the redeemed. In our own lives, fearsome giants stand between us and the heavenly Promised Land. We must believe that Jesus has already conquered them all, and that through Him, we can have victory. Of all the giants we battle on our way to Canaan, one of the most persistent is unbelief. It’s hard to trust a God we can’t see. Leaning on our own strength, trusting in our own wisdom, and looking to the tangible things of earth is often easier than reaching out to grasp the invisible hand of God or focusing on the unseen realities of an eternal kingdom.

When Jesus stood at Lazarus’ grave, armed with the knowledge that He would raise him from the dead, He paused for a moment to weep. He didn’t weep for Lazarus, because He knew the miracle He was about to perform. Jesus wept for the unbelief of those clustered around Him. The Life-giver was standing in their midst, ready to vanquish death, yet none of them believed He could do it. When Jesus said to Martha, “Your brother will rise again,” Martha said to Him, “I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day” (John 11:23, 24). It was easier to believe in something that would happen in the future—something that didn’t require any special exercise of faith in the present.

Unbelief can be easier than faith. It’s hard to believe that God can do the impossible, yet that’s exactly what He promised to do. As Jesus said, “With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible” (Matt. 19:26). Jesus was not saying that God will give us the power to achieve all of our goals; He was saying that by surrendering to God, we give Him room to accomplish His plans, which are much bigger and more miraculous than ours. God is looking for believers today who have the same faith and courage that Caleb had and who do not back down because of the giants in front of them.

**Questions to consider:**

`Where is Jesus in this passage/story? How do you see Him differently or see Him again?`

`From What giants in your life do you need God’s deliverance`