---
title: inQuire
date: 29/11/2025
---

### inQuire

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), share insights from this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**An elder goes to battle:**

1. What are some of your best memories of younger people working closely with older people?
2. What does Caleb’s age teach us about the importance of working together with people of all ages? _Read Josh. 14:6–15._
3. Why do you think Caleb asked for the most difficult mountain instead of the easiest? _For background, compare Josh. 14:12, 15 with Deut. 1:28._

`Personal reflection: What are some common obstacles to mission work that dissuade us from venturing out with the gospel today? How can we support more people in taking the gospel to the toughest regions?`

**The tribes leave the work unfinished:**

1. How did the Israelite tribes do at completing the task God gave them? _See Josh. 13:13; 15:63; 16:10, 17:12, 13._
2.  What excuses did the tribe of Ephraim offer for leaving their territory unfinished? _Read Josh. 17:14–18._
3. What unfinished business is God calling you to complete?

**Pulling down strongholds:**

1. In what ways is the conquest of Canaan symbolic of our own spiritual journeys? _Consider 2 Cor. 10:4–6 and Eph. 6:10–18._
2. How can we conquer the remaining strongholds or mountains in our lives? _See Mark 11:20–24._

`Personal reflection: What kind of difficult missions is God calling you to?`

---

### Key takeaways to remember

- God loves to use people of an unexpected age to do great things.
- God is looking for brave people who will volunteer for the most difficult assignments.
- It is a common temptation to rest easy before a job is finished.