---
title:  The Seven Trumpets
date:  09/02/2019
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Rev. 8:1–13; Num. 10:8–10; Ezek. 10:2; Rev. 10:1–11; Dan. 12:6, 7; Rev. 11:1–13; Leviticus 16.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “But in the days of the sounding of the seventh angel, when he is about to sound, the mystery of God would be finished, as He declared to His servants the prophets” (Revelation 10:7, NKJV).

In the scene of the fifth seal, we saw that the cry of God’s oppressed people reflects the cry of the faithful of all ages. These faithful ones were portrayed as souls under the altar, crying to God for justice and vindication, saying: “ ‘How long, O Lord?’ ” (Rev. 6:10, NKJV). The voice from heaven urged them to wait, because the day was coming when God would judge those who harmed them. Revelation 6:15–17 pictures Jesus returning to this earth and bringing judgment upon those who did evil to His faithful followers.

The scene of the fifth seal represents the experience of God’s suffering people throughout history, from the time of Abel until the time when God will finally judge and avenge “ ‘the blood of His servants’ ” (Rev. 19:2, NKJV). God’s suffering people must remain firm and believe that God hears the prayers of His people.

The vision of the seven trumpets shows that, throughout history, God already has intervened on behalf of His oppressed people and has judged those who harmed them. The purpose of the seven trumpets is to assure God’s people that heaven is not indifferent to their suffering.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, February 16._

---

#### Additional Reading: Notes from Ellen G. White

In earnest, agonizing prayer [sinners] call for God to pass them not by. The kings, the mighty men, the lofty, the proud, the mean man, alike bow together under a pressure of woe, desolation, misery inexpressible; heart-anguished prayers are wrung from their lips. Mercy! mercy! Save us from the wrath of an offended God! A voice answers them with terrible distinctness, sternness, and majesty: “Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out My hand, and no man regarded; but ye have set at nought all My counsel, and would none of My reproof: I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh.”—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 2, p. 41.

The people who have braved out their rebellion will fulfill the description given in Revelation 6:15-17. . . . The shepherds who lead the sheep in false paths will hear the charge made against them, “It was you who made light of truth. It was you who told us that God’s law was abrogated, that it was a yoke of bondage. It was you who voiced the false doctrines when I was convicted that these Seventh-day Adventists had the truth. The blood of our souls is upon your priestly garments. . . . What shall we do who listened to your garbling of the Scriptures and your turning into a lie the truth which if obeyed would have saved us?”

When Christ comes to take vengeance on those who have educated and trained the people to trample on God’s Sabbath, to tear down His memorial, and tread down with their feet the feed of His pastures, lamentations will be in vain. Those who trusted in the false shepherds had the word of God to search for themselves, and they find that God will judge every man who has had the truth and turned from the light because it involved self-denial and the cross. Rocks and mountains cannot screen them from the indignation of Him that sitteth on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb.—_Maranatha_, p. 290.

From garrets, from hovels, from dungeons, from scaffolds, from mountains and deserts, from the caves of the earth and the caverns of the sea, Christ will gather His children to Himself. On earth they have been destitute, afflicted, and tormented. Millions have gone down to the grave loaded with infamy because they refused to yield to the deceptive claims of Satan. By human tribunals the children of God have been adjudged the vilest criminals. But the day is near when “God is judge Himself.” (Psalm 50:6). Then the decisions of earth shall be reversed. “The rebuke of His people shall He take away.” Isaiah 25:8. White robes will be given to every one of them. (Revelation 6:11.) And “they shall call them the holy people, the redeemed of the Lord.” Isaiah 62:12.

Whatever crosses they have been called to bear, whatever losses they have sustained, whatever persecution they have suffered, even to the loss of their temporal life, the children of God are amply recompensed. “They shall see His face; and His name shall be in their foreheads.” Revelation 22:4.—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, pp. 179, 180.
