---
title:  The Angel With an Open Book
date:  12/02/2019
---

The sixth trumpet brings us to the time of the end. What are God’s people called to do during this time? Before the seventh trumpet sounds, an interlude is inserted, explaining the task and experience of God’s people at the end time.

`Read Revelation 10:1–4. What is happening here?`

“The mighty angel who instructed John was no less a personage than Jesus Christ.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 971. He places His feet on the sea and the land, signifying His universal rule and that what He is about to proclaim has worldwide significance. He shouts with the roar of a lion. A lion’s roar symbolizes God’s voice (see Hos. 11:10, Rev. 5:5).

John is not allowed to write down what the thunders have said. There are things concerning the future that God has not revealed to us through John.

`Read Revelation 10:5–7. Compare this passage with Daniel 12:6, 7. What words do they have in common?`

When the Angel states that there will “be time no longer” (Rev. 10:6), the Greek word chronos shows that He refers to a period of time. This points back to Daniel 12:6, 7, where an angel states the persecution of the saints will last for a time, times, and half a time, or 1,260 years (a.d. 538–1798) during which the church was persecuted by the papacy (compare Dan. 7:25). Since in Daniel and Revelation a prophetic “day” symbolizes a year (Num. 14:34, Ezek. 4:6), 360 “days” equal 360 years, and three and a half times (or “years”) equals 1,260 “days” or years. Sometime after this prophetic period, the end would come.

The statement that time will be no longer refers to the time prophecies of Daniel, particularly the 2,300 prophetic days of Daniel 8:14 (457 b.c.–a.d. 1844). After this period, there no longer will be prophetic time periods. Ellen White states: “This time, which the angel declares with a solemn oath, is . . . prophetic time, which should precede the advent of our Lord. That is, the people will not have another message upon definite time. After this period of time, reaching from 1842 to 1844, there can be no definite tracing of the prophetic time. The longest reckoning reaches to the autumn of 1844.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 971.

`What does this statement from Ellen White tell us about why we must avoid all future date setting?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Notes from Ellen G. White

[The] angel of Revelation 10 is represented as having one foot on the sea and one foot on the land, showing that the message will be carried to distant lands, the ocean will be crossed, and the islands of the sea will hear the proclamation of the last message of warning to our world.  

This message announces the end of the prophetic periods. The disappointment of those who expected to see our Lord in 1844 was indeed bitter to those who had so ardently looked for His appearing. It was in the Lord’s order that this disappointment should come, and that hearts should be revealed.—_Selected Messages_, book 2, pp. 107, 108.

Let all our brethren and sisters beware of anyone who would set a time for the Lord to fulfill His word in regard to His coming, or in regard to any other promise He has made of special significance. “It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in His own power.” False teachers may appear to be very zealous for the work of God, and may expend means to bring their theories before the world and the church; but as they mingle error with truth, their message is one of deception, and will lead souls into false paths. They are to be met and opposed, not because they are bad men, but because they are teachers of falsehood and are endeavoring to put upon falsehood the stamp of truth.—_Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers_, p. 55.

Not one cloud has fallen upon the church that God has not prepared for; not one opposing force has risen to counterwork the work of God but He has foreseen. All has taken place as He has predicted through His prophets. He has not left His church in darkness, forsaken, but has traced in prophetic declarations what would occur, and through His providence, acting in its appointed place in the world’s history, He has brought about that which His Holy Spirit inspired the prophets to foretell. All His purposes will be fulfilled and established. His law is linked with His throne, and satanic agencies combined with human agencies cannot destroy it. Truth is inspired and guarded by God; it will live, and will succeed, although it may appear at times to be overshadowed. The gospel of Christ is the law exemplified in character. The deceptions practiced against it, every device for vindicating falsehood, every error forged by satanic agencies, will eventually be eternally broken, and the triumph of truth will be like the appearing of the sun at noonday. The Sun of Righteousness shall shine forth with healing in His wings, and the whole earth shall be filled with His glory.—_Selected Messages_, book 2, p. 108.
