---
title:  The Two Witnesses
date:  14/02/2019
---

`Read Revelation 11:3–6. In what ways do the two witnesses reflect Zerubbabel and Joshua in their royal and priestly roles? See Zech. 4:2, 3, 11–14.`

The idea of two witnesses comes from the Jewish legal system, which requires at least two witnesses to establish something as true (John 8:17). The two witnesses represent the Bible—both Old and New Testaments. The two cannot be separated. God’s people are called to proclaim the full Bible message to the world—“ ‘the whole counsel of God’ ” (Acts 20:27, NKJV).

The witnesses are pictured as prophesying in sackcloth during the prophetic period of 1,260 days/years (a.d. 538–1798). Sackcloth is the garment of mourning (Gen. 37:34); it points to the difficult time when the truths of the Bible were buried, and covered over, by human traditions.

`Read Revelation 11:7–13. In your own words, describe what happened to the two witnesses at the end of the prophetic 1,260 days/years.`

The beast that kills the two witnesses arises from the very abode of Satan. This killing of the witnesses applies historically to the atheistic attack on the Bible and the abolition of religion in connection with the events of the French Revolution. The antireligious system established in France possessed the moral degradation of Sodom, the atheistic arrogance of Egypt, and the rebelliousness of Jerusalem. What happened to Jesus in Jerusalem now happens to the Bible by this antireligious system.

The resurrection of the witnesses points to the great revival of interest in the Bible in the aftermath of the French Revolution, which resulted in the rise of the Second Advent movement with its restoration of Bible truth, the establishment of Bible societies, and the worldwide distribution of the Bible.

Right before the end, the world will witness one final global Bible proclamation (Rev. 18:1–4). This final message will provoke opposition empowered by the demonic entities, working miracles, to deceive the world and draw worshipers of the beast into a final battle against God’s faithful witnesses (see Rev. 16:13–16; Rev. 14:12).

---

#### Additional Reading: Notes from Ellen G. White

The two witnesses represent the Scriptures of the Old and the New Testament. Both are important testimonies to the origin and perpetuity of the law of God. Both are witnesses also to the plan of salvation. The types, sacrifices, and prophecies of the Old Testament point forward to a Saviour to come. The Gospels and Epistles of the New Testament tell of a Saviour who has come in the exact manner foretold by type and prophecy.—_The Great Controversy_, p. 267.

The war against the Bible, carried forward for so many centuries in France, culminated in the scenes of the Revolution. That terrible outbreaking was but the legitimate result of Rome’s suppression of the Scriptures. . . . It presented the most striking illustration which the world has ever witnessed of the working out of the papal policy. . . .

The papal power sought to hide from the people the word of truth, and set before them false witnesses to contradict its testimony. . . . When the Bible was proscribed by religious and secular authority; when its testimony was perverted, and every effort made that men and demons could invent to turn the minds of the people from it; when those who dared proclaim its sacred truths were hunted, betrayed, tortured, buried in dungeon cells, martyred for their faith, or compelled to flee to mountain fastnesses, and to dens and caves of the earth—then the faithful witnesses prophesied in sackcloth. Yet they continued their testimony throughout the entire period of 1260 years. In the darkest times there were faithful men who loved God’s word and were jealous for His honor. To these loyal servants were given wisdom, power, and authority to declare His truth during the whole of this time.—_The Great Controversy_, pp. 265, 267.

The infidel Voltaire once boastingly said: “I am weary of hearing people repeat that twelve men established the Christian religion. I will prove that one man may suffice to overthrow it.” Generations have passed since his death. Millions have joined in the war upon the Bible. But it is so far from being destroyed, that where there were a hundred in Voltaire’s time, there are now ten thousand, yes, a hundred thousand copies of the book of God. In the words of an early Reformer concerning the Christian church, “The Bible is an anvil that has worn out many hammers.” Saith the Lord: “No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn.” Isaiah 54:17.  

“The word of our God shall stand forever.” “All His commandments are sure. They stand fast for ever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness.” Isaiah 40:8; Psalm 111:7, 8. Whatever is built upon the authority of man will be overthrown; but that which is founded upon the rock of God’s immutable word shall stand forever.—_The Great Controversy_, p. 288.
