---
title:  Education And God’s Plan To Save Sinners
date:  14/11/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 1:26, 27; Isaiah 11:1–9; 2 Timothy 4:14–17; 1 Kings 4:29–34.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “All Scripture is given by God. And all Scripture is useful for teaching and for showing people what is wrong in their lives. It is useful for correcting faults and teaching the right way to live” (2 Timothy 3:16, ERV).

THE BIBLE tells a long story about God and His people. Sometimes we see it as a love story that does not turn out as we expect. Other times we see it as the story about a Father and His misbehaving children. The children do what is wrong at first. But then they turn back to their Father.

This week, we are going to look at the Bible story in a new way. We will see that the Bible is the story about a Teacher and His students. The students keep failing their tests. But the Teacher is patient. He explains the students’ lessons again and again until some learn them.

The Bible story about God and His people has a good ending. That’s because of God’s grace, or loving-favor. Many people have not understood the part that humans have in this story. They think that God wants humans to do too many things to be saved. But that’s not what the Bible story is about. The Bible is God’s invitation to sinners to know Him and understand His plan to save them from sin. We cannot earn God’s grace. But we can learn about grace. And isn’t that what Christian education should teach us about?