---
title:  A Copy Of God 
date:  15/11/2020
---

`Read Genesis 1:26, 27 and Genesis 5:1, 3. What do these verses teach us about how God first made us? What happened to humans after sin?`

Bible experts have been interested in the words “in His own likeness [a copy]” (Genesis 1:27, NLV) for hundreds of years. What does it mean to be made in God’s “own likeness”? Does it mean that God looked in a mirror and made humans look the same as Himself only on the outside? Or does it show us that God and humans have spirits and minds that are very much the same? The Bible does not give any exact explanation of the words “in His own likeness.” That has not stopped Bible experts from coming up with many possible explanations. But we can see one thing from the Bible. After sin, “the likeness” changed. That is why Ellen G. White wrote that God’s plan for education is to make humans the same as God again (read Education, pages 14–16).

How can education make this happen?

First, we need to remember that God made us to feel close to Him the same way that children feel close to their parents. God made us as a copy of Himself. In the same way, human parents have children that look the same as they look (Genesis 5:1). God wants to raise us as His children. We belong to His family. So, “the likeness” is also a word picture. It helps us see that God wants us to join as one with Him. We can do that only if we are in agreement with God. This joining is what happens in education, first at home between parents and children. Later, this happens at school when teachers take over the work of educating our children. God made us “in His own likeness” so that He can teach us and we can learn from Him. Then His “likeness,” or mind, will be shown in our thinking.

`The story about our Savior is a story of education. It starts with His making us and goes to the time He becomes born as a Baby on this earth. Then the story continues from His time on this earth to the time when He will make everything new again. God is a teacher. Heaven is a school we will not leave (read Ellen G. White, Education, page 301). Why should this idea make us do everything we can, as Christians, to offer the best education at home, in church, in school, and in college?`