---
title:  Jesus, The Teacher 
date:  16/11/2020
---

The Bible uses many words to show us who Jesus is. Jesus is the Son of God. He is God’s Chosen One. He is the Son of Man. He is the Savior. He is the One who buys our pardon. He is the Lord and also the Lamb of God. But who is Jesus to the people who know Jesus best? These people followed Jesus during His public work for God on earth in Judea and Galilee. To them, Jesus is a teacher. They named Him “Master,” or “Rabbi.” Both names mean the same thing: “Teacher.”

Jesus’ work as Savior is much the same as the work of teaching. What is more, Isaiah tells us that Jesus will do this work when He comes to this earth.

`Read Isaiah 11:1–9. What do these verses show us about Jesus’ work as a Teacher?`

Isaiah 11 shows us one of the most surprising promises about the Messiah. The Messiah is the One that God chose to save us from sin. Verses 1–3 show the coming Messiah as a Teacher. He is someone who brings knowledge, wisdom, and understanding. He gives good advice. These verses end with this surprising promise: “The earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the sea is full of water.” (Isaiah 11:9, ICB). Maybe it was these teachings from the Bible that caused Ellen G. White to say that the work of education and God’s plan to save us are the same work.

Read John 3:1–3. Nicodemus named Jesus “rabbi.” Nicodemus also said that Jesus’ teaching gifts came from God because of the miracles Jesus did. Jesus accepted Nicodemus’ words about His teaching as true. Jesus told Nicodemus that he must be born again to understand or enter the kingdom of God. This shows that the gift of teaching people comes from God.

Yes, teaching is a gift from God. God chooses the ones He will give the gift of teaching to. Jesus accepted this gift from God. The people that Jesus taught understood that Jesus’ gift came from God. The same thing happens today. Students are taught by those who have the gift of teaching. The students see that this gift comes from God.

`Isaiah’s special message promised that in the future the knowledge of God will go all over the earth. What part do we have in helping Isaiah’s words come true?`