---
title:  Moses And God’s Special Messengers 
date:  17/11/2020
---

`Read 2 Timothy 3:14–17. What do these verses teach about why the Bible is important in Christian education?`

The Torah is the name for the first five books of the Old Testament. The word “Torah” is often written as “the Law.” That’s because there are many laws in these books. But Torah really means “teaching.” When most people think about “the law,” they think it means rules we must follow to earn God’s favor. But that is not what “the law” means. The law is meant to teach us how to follow the Special Agreement, or Covenant, with God.

The next two parts of the Hebrew Bible are the books of the prophets, or God’s special messengers. The books of the prophets show how well God’s people learned the information that He taught them and how well they lived by it. The final part of the Old Testament is called “the writings” in Hebrew. It is full of examples that show the experiences of teachers and their students. Some teachers and students are a success. Some have less success. Examples of people who had success in learning their lessons are Esther, Ruth, Daniel, and Job. Some of the people who failed to learn their lessons are Job’s four friends. The book of Psalms is a songbook. Even so, it has at least three psalms that teach us lessons: Psalm 1, Psalm 37, and Psalm 73.

In the New Testament, we have the Gospels: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. The Gospels give us many lessons that teach us spiritual truth. An example is the parables, or stories, of Jesus. Many of Paul’s letters start with a strong announcement of the Good News. But they end with lessons about daily life for Christians. The book of Revelation is full of Bible teachings. We see an example of this in Revelation 5:1–5. In these verses, we see a closed book that only the Lamb can open. The Lamb is Jesus, who is our Expert Teacher. The closed book shows the future of Jesus’ church. The knowledge in this book will help Christians who are living in the end times.

`Not all teaching in the Torah can be used in our time. As an example, look at Deuteronomy 17:14–20. These verses talk about choosing a king. Today, of course, we don’t pick kings to serve in our church. So, how do we decide which teachings in the Bible we should use for our time?`