---
title:  Wise Men And Women 
date:  18/11/2020
---

Today, we clearly understand the meaning of the words for school, study, and education. But these words are not used much in the Bible. One word that is used a lot more in the Bible is “wisdom” or “wise.” The Old Testament talks about wise men and women (2 Samuel 14:2; Proverbs 16:23).

`Read 1 Kings 4:29–34. What do these verses teach us about why wisdom is important?`

The Bible tells us that King Solomon is a very wise man. He wrote about animal and plant life in the Bible. He also wrote many proverbs. Proverbs are wise sayings. He was an educated man (1 Kings 4:29–34). He wrote many parts of the books of Proverbs and Ecclesiastes. These books are filled with his wise teachings and the wise teachings of other teachers during Bible times (read Proverbs 1:1; Proverbs 25:1; Proverbs 30:1; and Proverbs 31:1).

The Bible tells us that wisdom is something that we learn from parents and teachers, often when we are young (Ecclesiastes 12:1). But a person learns wisdom his or her whole life. Wisdom is not just spiritual teachings. Wisdom also includes lessons for everyday life. An example is Proverbs 6:6–8. These verses show us that we have much to learn from the ants. The ants save in the summer so that they will have enough food for winter.

Wisdom is more than advice about everyday life. It also has a spiritual side to it, as we said. Wisdom starts with faith in God. It follows important rules (Proverbs 1:7). Wisdom helps us to be responsible in life. Wisdom helps us to be a blessing to people too. Wisdom does not answer all the questions we have. But it helps us to be happy with what we know. At the same time, wisdom causes us to continue to search for what we do not know. Then we will learn to know God better and to trust in His love. Jeremiah 18:18 tells us that the work a wise teacher does is important in God’s eyes. It is equal to the work of a religious leader and a special messenger. Teachers, religious leaders, and special messengers all give messages from God to His people. They do this by teaching the law, giving advice, and special messages from God.

`How can we learn wisdom? How do we pass it on to the ones who live after us? Why is this so important to do?`