---
title:  Education In The Early Church 
date:  19/11/2020
---

We see one of the most wonderful rules about teaching in the life of Jesus. Jesus, the Expert Teacher, gets ready to leave His students. They have been with Him for 3 ½ years. That is almost the same amount of time that we go to high school or college. At the end of that time, students are expected to be ready to manage life on their own.

But Jesus knows better. So, He gives His followers what we name “continuing education” today. For Jesus’ followers, this will be extra teaching from the Holy Spirit. The Bible also names the Spirit as the One who comforts us and is a Helper. Helper comes from the Greek word “parakletos.” God will give the Spirit to Jesus’ followers as a gift. This gift will not be taken away from them after it is given (John 14:16, 17). The Spirit is also named the Spirit of Truth. True, the Holy Spirit is not ever named Educator, or Teacher. But the work that the Holy Spirit does is to teach. He helps us search for the truth and find it.

`Read 1 Corinthians 2:1–16. What is Paul saying in these verses? Why is it so important for education?`

Paul starts by telling the church in Corinth that he talked only about Jesus and His dying on the cross (1 Corinthians 2:2) when he first came to Corinth. Paul did not give the Corinthians clever words of wisdom. He preached only the Good News. But that was not the end of their studies (1 Corinthians 2:6). After these new Christians learn Paul’s lessons, Paul will come back to teach them wisdom (1 Corinthians 2:7; 1 Corinthians 2:10). The Spirit of God will join with the spirit of the learner. Then He will help them in their studies.

`How deep will that study be? How much can people learn who are led by the Spirit? Paul gives us the answer at the end of his chapter where he ends with a quotation from Isaiah 40:13, NIrV: “Who can ever understand the Spirit of the LORD? Who can ever give him advice?” The answer? No one can. At the same time, Paul says that “But we have been given Christ’s way of thinking” (1 Corinthians 2:16, ERV). Paul shows us that Spirit-filled Christians can join with the mind of God. Then they can have any amount of learning and understanding that God wants to give them to help them to be saved (1 Corinthians 2:10–13).`