---
title:  Further Thought
date:  20/11/2020
---

Jesus asked His followers to share the Good News. That started a mighty work on the whole earth. Then Jesus’ followers went everywhere and made new followers for Jesus. They taught them everything that Jesus taught them. They baptized these new followers. These new believers came from different countries. They spoke different languages. As they came up out of the water, they started their education as Christians. This is not surprising. These new believers had much to learn.

Christians are always learning. It is not because they just like to learn or simply want more knowledge. No, it is more than that. You see, the Christian life and faith fill every part of daily life. There is so much to learn. Because of this, the New Testament is filled with both the Good News about Jesus and the teaching that Christians need to learn. A good example of the announcement of the Good News is 1 Corinthians 2:2. The teaching starts in 1 Corinthians 4 and continues on and off in the rest of the letter. What must Christians learn?

They must learn about work, rest, good behavior, how to get along with people, church and worship, money management, taking care of the poor, being a good citizen, advice, family, marriage, raising children, food and how to cook it, clothing, and old age and how to get ready for the end of life and to be ready for Jesus. To be a Christian means to learn something about all these things and more. It is not natural for us to understand these things on our own. We must learn them.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How important is Christian education to the work that we do in sharing the Good News with people?`

`What did Ellen G. White mean when she wrote “Heaven is a school” (Education, page 301)?`

`Read 1 Corinthians 2:1–16 again. Look at what Paul tells us about what God shows to us with the help of His Spirit. Think about Paul’s words that the leaders and the wisdom of the age will end. Paul said that a long time ago. How true are his words today? What will happen to some of the “wisdom” from our age`