---
title:  A Happy Day
date:  10/09/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Psalm 92**

**A Happy Day**

Consider God’s instructions to Adam in the Garden of Eden: “Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat; but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die” (Gen. 2:16, 17). When the serpent met Eve at the forbidden tree, he began his line of questioning with the prohibition: “Has God indeed said, ‘You shall not eat of every tree of the garden’?” (Gen. 3:1). Yet when God gave His instructions, He began with permission.

Not only did God mention what was permissible before what was prohibited, but what was permissible also far outweighed what was prohibited. Of every tree Adam and Eve were permitted to eat! Only one was withheld. Moreover, God did not grudgingly give them permission to eat, but they could freely eat. Yet as the serpent tempted Eve in the Garden of Eden, we tend to focus on what is proscribed more than what is prescribed.

There is a simple children’s song that does not ring true for many a Christian’s experience. The lyrics are as follows:

Sabbath is a happy day, happy day, happy day

Sabbath is a happy day

I love every Sabbath.

Most Sabbath keepers would concede to the benefits of Sabbath observance. But how many actually enjoy the Sabbath? There certainly is a joy in ceasing from your labor. But what of the benefits that derive not from what you are not doing, but from what you are doing?

#### inScribe

Write out Psalm 92 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Psalm 92:7–13. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `