---
title:  Hands Off
date:  11/09/2022
---

#### inGest

In some residential neighborhoods, and to a lesser degree, in some business areas, the sign “Keep off the grass” may be seen. In a freshly painted building, the warning may be, “Wet paint: do not touch.” In airports, “Caution: wet floor” is common. Each sign warns passersby to avoid contact with an area. Disobedience would lead to unpleasant consequences!

Long before these signs became a part of modern life, God had warned the Israelites that only the Kohathites (of the tribe of Levi) were permitted to transport the Ark of the Covenant (Num. 4:15). They were to do this using poles (Exod. 25:12–14). Direct contact with the ark was forbidden on pain of death (Num. 4:15). Uzzah learned this lesson tragically when, with good intentions, he touched the ark (2 Sam. 6:1–7). In effect, God instituted a “Hands off” policy regarding the sacred ark.

This “Hands off” prohibition applied with equal force to the Sabbath day. “If thou turn away thy foot from the sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words: Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it” (Isa. 58:13, 14, KJV).

“My holy day” and “holy of the Lord” contrast sharply with “thine own ways,” “thine own pleasure,” and “thine own words.” In a relationship with God, the believer must be careful, extremely careful, to make a difference between the sacred and the profane (secular) and to order his or her behavior accordingly. This applies with special force to the Sabbath day, God’s chosen sign of His ongoing work of sanctifying His obedient people.

The Sabbath is a weekly reminder that the holy things of God (the Sabbath, dedicated church buildings, tithe, the body temple, marriage, and so on) must not be manhandled!

**Memorize your favorite verse in Psalm 92. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How do the concepts of delight and holy reverence interface for you?`

`What are ways in which you show reverence for things that are holy?`