---
title:  No Other Gods
date:  12/09/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Animism is generally regarded as the belief that a spirit or essence resides in all things, animate and inanimate, material and immaterial. This sweeping concept extends to geographical features and even the forces of nature. Animism lies at the foundation of some so-called primitive religions that worship, or regard as sacred, rivers, trees, mountains, and animals. Perhaps most ancient of all is the worship of the sun itself, or the worship of the sun as a representative of some deity.

Whether the sun, moon, stars, rocks, mountains, rivers, animals, or natural forces (lightning, storms), these are all features or expressions of nature: creation!

The three great monotheistic religions (belief in one God) do not practice animism. They are Christianity, Judaism, and Islam.

The first commandment directly opposes animism. “Thou shalt have no other gods before me” (Exod. 20:3, KJV). This prohibition is supported by the more detailed second commandment: “Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them” (Exod. 20:4, 5, KJV). Nothing anywhere in creation must be worshipped. Expressed differently, the Bible’s message is that nothing created must be worshipped!

The wording of the second commandment is partially echoed in the fourth, which describes God as having made “heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is” (Exod. 20:11, KJV). The Sabbath commandment, which differentiates Creator from creation, is God’s designated defense against idol worship. Animism is impossible where the Sabbath is understood and properly observed. Speaking of the Israelites, Ellen White writes, “While they kept the Sabbath in the proper spirit, idol worship could not exist.” (Ellen G. White, Royalty and Ruin (Nampa, ID: Pacific Press, 2008), 64.) This second statement is even more sweeping: “Had the Sabbath always been sacredly observed, there could never have been an atheist or an idolater.” (White, Patriarchs and Prophets, 336.)

It should be noted that idol worship extends beyond the things of nature to the very realm of ideas! Ellen White, who often refers to Sunday as the idol sabbath, states that “it is as easy to make an idol of false doctrines and theories as to fashion an idol of wood or stone.” (White, The Great Controversy, 583.) If this be so, then there is no more popular idol today than Sunday sacredness. By it, Satan will eventually blind virtually the entire world. (See White, The Great Controversy, 588.)

Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. It is a divinely ordained defense against idolatry and deadly deception.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`While we should keep the Sabbath holy, in what ways does keeping the Sabbath keep us?`