---
title:  A Sabbath Psalm
date:  14/09/2022
---

#### inVite

At the beginning of every Sabbath each week, Jewish Sabbath keepers read Psalm 92. It is entitled, “A Song for the Sabbath Day,” so it certainly makes sense to read it on the Sabbath. From it we might gather some insight into the ethos of the Sabbath experience from the author’s perspective.

First, “it is good to give thanks to the Lord” (Ps. 92:1). At the close of the week, the Sabbath affords an opportunity to express gratitude to God. Clearly, giving thanks is not limited to the Sabbath, as David states: “To declare Your lovingkindness in the morning, and Your faithfulness every night” (v. 2). Yet the Sabbath is an entire day set aside “to sing praises” (v. 1) to God for His lovingkindness and faithfulness.

David employs the use of instruments, one of ten strings, the lute, and the harp, to make “harmonious sound” (v. 3) as he praises God. So, music is to be incorporated into our Sabbath worship—harmonious music, that is. Further, in the vein of thanksgiving, the tone of the Sabbath worship experience is joyous: “For You, Lord, have made me glad through Your work” (v. 4). There is a time for fasting and somber reflection, but the Sabbath is not it. Rather, the Sabbath is a day of gladness and celebration.

In verse 4 David introduces the concept of God’s work. Indeed, on the Sabbath we ought to reflect on the work that God has done. Was this not God’s example to us from the beginning? (cf. Gen. 1:31–2:3). Included in God’s works is His creation. Spending time in nature as we meditate on God’s creation is an appropriate Sabbath activity. We may come to better understand the mind of God as we do this because His works reveal His thoughts. So, David exclaims that God’s “thoughts are very deep” (v. 5).

God’s works also include His work of salvation (vv. 7, 9). The Sabbath is a day to rejoice in God’s triumph over evildoers. We may undergo oppression at the hand of wicked people, but the Sabbath constantly reminds us that God will subdue our enemies. And “the last enemy that will be destroyed is death” (1 Cor. 15:26). We have every reason to rejoice in God’s works!

Sandwiched between these verses about God’s work of salvation is the climax of the song: “But You, Lord, are on high forevermore” (Ps. 92:8). The pinnacle of our Sabbath experience is to recognize God’s exalted position and to lift Him up in our esteem. Only when God is at the center of our Sabbath experience can we know the joy of Sabbath worship!

Once again, in chiastic form, David returns to the concept of God’s work of salvation in dealing with the wicked. Unlike the “workers of iniquity” who “flourish . . . that they may be destroyed forever” (v. 7), “the righteous shall flourish like a palm tree, he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon” (v. 12). And finally, the psalmist ends with the declaration that “the Lord is upright; He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in Him” (v. 15).

`How does Sabbath worship enhance your relationship with Jesus?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`