---
title:  God on Trial
date:   18/01/2026
---

**Read This Lesson’s Passage:** Job 1, 2

### inTro

**God on Trial**

Elie Wiesel, famed Holocaust survivor, once wrote a play entitled God on Trial. In this screenplay, three rabbis indict God for allowing His children to be massacred. “The trial lasted several nights. Witnesses were heard, evidence was gathered, conclusions were drawn, all of which issued finally in a unanimous verdict: the Lord God Almighty, Creator of Heaven and Earth, was found guilty of crimes against creation and humankind.”<sup>1</sup>

This fictional court case left viewers with profound questions about God, life, and evil. However, Wiesel, who had been imprisoned in a Nazi prison camp, claimed the story was not allegorical but something he witnessed. At the age of fifteen, while a prisoner at Auschwitz, Elie Wiesel watched as three Jewish scholars put God on trial for indifference to the suffering of His people—and found Him guilty. Their utter despair led them to accuse the very focal point of their religion.

_Is God guilty of crimes against humanity?_

This question brings us to the heart of the problem of evil. If God is so good, why is there evil? The one Being who has absolute power in the Universe to stop evil… _does not._

In the words of philosopher Peter Kreeft:

The problem of evil is the most serious problem in the world.… More people have abandoned their faith because of the problem of evil than for any other reason. It is certainly the greatest test of faith, the greatest temptation to unbelief. And it’s not just an intellectual objection. We feel it. We live it.…The problem can be stated very simply: If God is so good, why is His world so bad? …Why do bad things happen to good people?<sup>2</sup>

Bad news stalks us every day. Accounts of sickness, death, pandemics, mental illness, corruption, and crime are part of the daily makeup of our lives. With the inestimable tragedies and injustices of last year (or last week) alone, _how does a believer defend the idea of an all-powerful, omnibenevolent Being?_

When we open the Bible to Genesis 1:1, we read, “In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.” Here, we’re introduced to a perfect God, who created a perfect world, for perfect people, who lived in a perfect environment, in perfect health, enjoying perfect relationships with their Creator and one another. The origin of our world is Eden, where happiness and love flourished. Read the first two chapters of Genesis, and you’ll encounter human life as God originally intended.

_Now close your Bible. What do you see?_ You see violence, mayhem, suffering, poverty, isolation, hunger, sickness, pain, sorrow, and death. This is life for so many people today. Now open your Bible again. What’s the first question on your mind?

If you’re still unclear about the question, imagine this scene: One day you leave your house tidy and spotless. Your clothes are freshly washed and carefully folded. Your dishes are clean and drying on the rack. The living room is carefully vacuumed, with every couch pillow in its proper place. Feeling satisfied with your work, you leave home to buy some groceries. But when you return, something has changed. After unlocking the door, you find the living room in disarray. Clothes are scattered all over your bedroom floor. Windows are broken, and several valuables are missing. What would be your most obvious question? “What happened?… _What happened?_”

You would want to know what happened to your home and your belongings. How did it happen? Who caused it to happen? It’s only natural you would want to understand.

God wants us to ask, “_Where did this evil come from?_” God desires to help us understand why our world is so vastly different from the Eden He originally created. He doesn’t want us to suppress our difficult questions or overlook the stark contrast between His perfect design and our present reality. He also wants us to grasp this great dilemma and recognize what He is doing to resolve it.

As we explore this topic, we will delve into biblical texts and theological arguments that address the coexistence of a loving God and the presence of evil.

### Apologetics Challenge

If God is so good and powerful, why doesn’t He stop evil?

### inScribe

Write out Job 1:6–12 from the translation of your choice. Read the story from Job 1, 2 and pay attention to the dialogue between Satan and God. Write down implicit and explicit thoughts in their exchange. What’s being said between the lines?

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Philip Yancey, _The Disappointment with God_ (Zondervan, 1988), 137

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Peter J. Kreeft, “The Problem of Evil,” PeterKreeft.com, accessed June 2025, https://www.peterkreeft.com/topics/evil.htm.