---
title:  The Center of the Conflict
date:   20/01/2026
---

### inTerpret

Job’s story vividly portrays the conflict between Christ and Satan, illustrating that suffering is not a reflection of God’s character but rather the work of an adversary intent on causing harm. Jesus Himself said in a parable about the tragic condition of our world, “An enemy has done this” (Matt. 13:28). The book of Job exposes the connection between suffering and Satan. In fact, the word “Satan” appears more frequently in Job than in any other book of the Bible.

Christian apologist and professor Sean McDowell posed this question: “Have you ever wondered how God and Satan could be engaged in a genuine cosmic struggle? Since God is all-powerful, and Satan is a limited being, how could they be in any genuine conflict at all?”<sup>1</sup> This isn’t a typical power struggle. Something else is going on. The conflict between God and Satan isn’t about force against force, like a wrestling match. Something infinitely more important than ego is at stake.

This controversy is a war of ideas. Scripture mentions little of Satan’s physical power, focusing instead on his ability to twist ideas for his own gain. Satan is referenced as the:

- Accuser of the brethren (Rev. 12:10)
- Father of lies (John 8:44)
- Liar (John 8:44)
- Deceiver (Rev. 12:9)
- Blinder of many minds (2 Cor. 4:4)
- Tempter (Matt. 4:3)

Theologian John Peckham describes the devil’s deceptive work:

From Genesis to Revelation, questions regarding God’s character and government are raised in heaven and on earth. Since the enemy’s slanderous allegations are epistemic in nature, they cannot be effectively answered by any display of power, however great. Indeed, no amount of power exercised by a king would prove to his subject that he is not unjust.… A conflict over character cannot be settled by sheer power but requires demonstration.<sup>2</sup>

God’s love is at the center of the conflict. The only responsible option for resolving this crisis would be to truthfully address the allegations. Power and force cannot overcome lies—especially lies about someone’s character. Lies can only be overcome with truth.

Why doesn’t God end the problem of evil with force now? Any attempt to prematurely end the struggle with divine force may, in fact, prolong it—and even fuel it. God’s commitment to love provides a moral reason to delay His punishment of evil. God can’t eradicate evil permanently if He deals with it prematurely.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what are your main takeaways?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How does the idea that the cosmic conflict is a battle of ideas influence the way you approach your faith and relationship with God?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Job 1. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Sean McDowell, _How Can God and Satan Be in A Cosmic Struggle?_ SeanMcDowell.com, 2019, https://seanmcdowell.org/blog/how-can-god-and-satan-be-in-a-cosmic-struggle.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> John C. Peckham, _Theodicy of Love: Cosmic Conflict and the Problem of Evil_ (Baker Academic, 2018), 139.