---
title:  inQuire
date:   24/01/2026
---

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to study this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**Allegations against God:**

1. What did Satan claim as his territory under his dominion? What were Satan’s accusations against Job? How did he challenge God and His character? _Job 1:6–12_
2. In Job’s story, what issues were at stake in this conflict between Christ and Satan? Why can’t this dispute be resolved with force? _Review this week’s inTerpret for perspective._

`Personal reflection: How does the idea of a cosmic war between God and Satan shape your view of everyday struggles and challenges?`

**Job is tested:**

1. Did Job’s loyalty to God change when he lost everything? _Job 1:20–22; 13:15_
2. Job experienced restoration after his suffering, but complete restoration will only be realized in eternity. How does the hope of a future, eternal restoration help you navigate present hardships and suffering? _Compare Job 1:1–3 with 42:12, 13._

`Personal reflection: What does it take to trust God even when all your blessings are taken away? Can you think of any specific ways this story can inspire practical changes in how you face suffering or disappointment?`

**Victory in Christ:**

1. What are Satan’s tactics in fighting this war against God and against us? _John 8:44; 2 Cor. 11:3_
2. How do you think we can be better at detecting Satan’s lies in our daily lives, especially when it comes to believing lies about our own worth, God’s character, or the world around us? What practical steps can you take to counter these lies?
3. What assurance can we have of Satan’s ultimate defeat? _Rom. 16:20; Heb. 2:14, 15_

`Personal reflection: In your own life, what has been the most difficult question you’ve had about God when facing hardship or witnessing injustice? How did you deal with it, and where did you find comfort?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- A conflict over character cannot be settled by force. Falsehood can be overcome only with truth.
- Even in our darkest moments of suffering, God’s presence and love remain constant, despite our inability to understand the reasons behind our pain.
- We can have confidence that Satan’s defeat is sure, despite our current struggles.