---
title:  “From the Depths of the Earth”
date:  18/10/2022
---

`Read Psalm 71. What did David imply when he asked God to bring him up “again from the depths of the earth” (Ps. 71:20, NKJV)?`

In Psalm 49 we found a touching expression of hope in the resurrection, in contrast to the false assurance of the fool who trusted in his wealth. In Psalm 71, David seeks security and hope from God, while surrounded by enemies and false accusers who say that God has forsaken him (Ps. 71:10, 11).

Amid his trials, David finds comfort and assurance in recalling how God had cared for him in the past. First, he realizes that God had upheld him from birth and even had taken him out of his mother’s womb (Ps. 71:6). Then, he acknowledges that God had taught him from his youth (Ps. 71:17).

With the certainty that God was his rock and his fortress, David pleads with Him, “Be my strong refuge, to which I may resort continually” (Ps. 71:3, NKJV). “Do not cast me off in the time of old age; do not forsake me when my strength fails” (Ps. 71:9, NKJV). “O God, do not be far from me; O my God, make haste to help me!” (Ps. 71:12, NKJV). And then David adds, “You, who have shown me great and severe troubles, shall revive me again, and bring me up again from the depths of the earth” (Ps. 71:20, NKJV).

The expression “from the depths of the earth” could be understood literally as an allusion to the future physical resurrection of the psalmist. But the context seems to favor a metaphorical description of David’s condition of deep depression, as if the earth were swallowing him (compare with Ps. 88:6 and Ps. 130:1). So, we could say that “it is primarily figurative speech, but also hints at a physical resurrectio­n.”—Andrews Study Bible, p. 726, note on Psalm 71:20.

In the end, what’s important to grasp is that, whatever our situation, God is there, He cares, and ultimately, our hope isn’t found in this life but in the life to come—the eternal life we have in Jesus after our resurrection at His return.

`We all have had some terrible moments of discouragement. How, though, can focusing on the ways that the Lord has been with you in the past help you press on ahead in faith and trust in the moments when He seems far away?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

David entreated the Lord not to forsake him in old age. And why did he thus pray? He saw that most of the aged around him were unhappy, because of the unfortunate traits of their character being increased with their age. If they had been naturally close and covetous, they were most disagreeably so in mature years. . . .<br/>
. . . He looked forward to the time when he should be aged, and feared that God would leave him and he would be as unhappy as other aged persons whose course he had noticed, and that he should be left to the reproach of the enemies of the Lord. With this burden upon him he earnestly prays [Psalm 71:9, 17, 19 quoted]. . . .<br/>
If [all] would take the position God would have them, their last days might be their best, their happiest. . . . They should lay aside anxiety and burdens, and occupy their time as happily as they can, in [readying] for heaven.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 3, p. 1148.

Since the days of David there had reigned no king who had wrought so mightily for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God in a time of apostasy and discouragement as had Hezekiah. The dying ruler had served his God faithfully, and had strengthened the confidence of the people in Jehovah as their Supreme Ruler. And, like David, he could now plead: . . .<br/>
“Thou art my hope, O Lord God: Thou art my trust from my youth. By Thee have I been holden up.” “Forsake me not when my strength faileth.” “O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help.” “O God, forsake me not; until I have showed Thy strength unto this generation, and Thy power to everyone that is to come.” Psalm 71:5, 6, 9, 12, 18.<br/>
He whose “compassions fail not,” heard the prayer of His servant. Lamentations 3:22. . . .<br/>
Restored to his wonted strength, the king of Judah acknowledged in words of song the mercies of Jehovah, and vowed to spend his remaining days in willing service to the King of kings. His grateful recognition of God’s compassionate dealing with him is an inspiration to all who desire to spend their years to the glory of their Maker.—Prophets and Kings, pp. 340–342.

When depression settles upon the soul, it is no evidence that God has changed. He is “the same yesterday, and today, and forever.” You are sure of the favor of God when you are sensible of the beams of the Sun of righteousness; but if the clouds sweep over your soul, you must not feel that you are forsaken. . . . Treasure up the lessons that His love provides. Let your faith be like Job’s, that you may declare, “Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him.” Lay hold on the promises of your heavenly Father, and remember His former dealing with you and with His servants; for “all things work together for good to them that love God.”—Mind, Character, and Personality, vol. 2, p. 496.