---
title:  Those Who Sleep in the Dust
date:  20/10/2022
---

As we will see, the New Testament talks a great deal about the resurrection of the dead; and, as we have already seen, the idea of the resurrection of the dead appears in the Old Testament, as well. These people, in Old Testament times, had the hope of the final resurrection that we do. Martha, living at the time of Jesus, already had this hope (John 11:24). No question, even then, the Jews had some knowledge of the resurrection in the last days, even if not all believed it. (See Acts 23:8.)

`Read Daniel 12. What resurrection hope is found here, in the writings of this great prophet?`

Daniel 12:1 refers to Michael, “ ‘the great prince,’ ” whose identification has been much disputed. Because each of the great visions in the book of Daniel culminates with the manifestation of Christ and His kingdom, the same should be the case in regard to this specific passage. In the book of Daniel we find allusions to the same Divine Being as “the Prince of the host” (Dan. 8:11, NKJV), “ ‘the Prince of princes’ ” (Dan. 8:25, NKJV), “ ‘Messiah the Prince’ ” (Dan. 9:25, NKJV), and finally as “ ‘Michael, the great prince’ ” (Dan. 12:1, NASB). So, we should identify Michael also as Christ.

The Old Testament passages considered so far (Job 19:25–27, Ps. 49:15, Ps. 71:20, Isa. 26:19) all speak of the resurrection of righteous people. But Daniel 12 speaks of a resurrection of both the righteous and unrighteous. When Michael stands up, “ ‘many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, some to shame and everlasting contempt’ ” (Dan. 12:2, NKJV).

Many view this verse to be talking about a special resurrection of certain people, both the faithful and the unfaithful, at Christ’s return.

“Graves are opened, and ‘many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth . . . awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.’ Daniel 12:2. All who have died in the faith of the third angel’s message come forth from the tomb glorified, to hear God’s covenant of peace with those who have kept His law. ‘They also which pierced Him’ (Revelation 1:7), those that mocked and derided Christ’s dying agonies, and the most violent opposers of His truth and His people, are raised to behold Him in His glory and to see the honor placed upon the loyal and obedient.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 637.---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

From the rise and fall of nations as made plain in the books of Daniel and the Revelation, we need to learn how worthless is mere outward and worldly glory. Babylon, with all its power and magnificence . . . how completely has it passed away! As “the flower of the grass,” it has perished. James 1:10. . . . Only that which is bound up with His purpose, and expresses His character, can endure. His principles are the only steadfast things our world knows.<br/>
A careful study of the working out of God’s purpose in the history of nations and in the revelation of things to come, will help us to estimate at their true value things seen and things unseen, and to learn what is the true aim of life. Thus, viewing the things of time in the light of eternity, we may, like Daniel and his fellows, live for that which is true and noble and enduring. And learning in this life the principles of the kingdom of our Lord and Saviour, that blessed kingdom which is to endure for ever and ever, we may be prepared at His coming to enter with Him into its possession.—Prophets and Kings, p. 548.

From garrets, from hovels, from dungeons, from scaffolds, from mountains and deserts, from the caves of the earth and the caverns of the sea, Christ will gather His children to Himself. On earth they have been destitute, afflicted, and tormented. Millions have gone down to the grave loaded with infamy because they refused to yield to the deceptive claims of Satan. By human tribunals the children of God have been adjudged the vilest criminals. But the day is near when “God is judge Himself.” (Psalm 50:6). Then the decisions of earth shall be reversed. “The rebuke of His people shall He take away.” Isaiah 25:8. White robes will be given to every one of them. (Revelation 6:11.) And “they shall call them the holy people, the redeemed of the Lord.” Isaiah 62:12.—Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 179.

Christ would have everyone possess in abundance the grace of heaven. He desires that His joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. . . . The hand of God is upon all those for good who seek Him, but His power and His wrath are against those who forsake Him, and who trust in the help and friendship of the world. . . .<br/>
The children of God will know who is their helper. They will know in whom they can trust implicitly, and with Christ’s help, they may, without presumption, have a holy confidence. Yes, His servants may safely trust in Him alone, without fear, looking unto Jesus, pressing on in obedience to His requirements, leaving everything that is joined to the world, whether the world opposes or favors. Their success comes from God, and they will not fail because they have not the wealth and influence of wicked men.—This Day With God, p. 354.