---
title:  Family First
date:  17/06/2019
---

The most natural first recipients of our gospel-sharing endeavors are the people in our households. There is no more important mission field than this.

`What conclusions can be drawn from John 1:40–42 about sharing faith at home? See also Deut. 6:6, 7; Ruth 1:14–18.`

An enthusiastic report. Andrew went beyond mere reporting; he arranged for his brother, Simon, to meet Jesus. An enthusiastic report about Jesus and an introduction to Him as a person—what a simple formula for sharing the gospel with relatives in our homes! After the introduction Andrew stepped back. From then on, Jesus and Peter had a relationship of their own.

Helping children to a place of faith. Children in a home can often be overlooked as fitting recipients of gospel-sharing efforts. Parents mistakenly assume children will simply absorb family spirituality. This must not be taken for granted. While children and young people learn from the modeling they observe, it also is true that these younger members of the Lord’s family need individual attention and opportunity to be personally introduced to Him. Deuteronomy 6 is insistent on this point: Attention must be given to the most effective kind of religious education. Regular spiritual habits of personal and family worship are to be encouraged in the home. Time and earnest efforts must be put forth on behalf of children and youth.

`What can we learn from the evangelistic efforts of Naomi? Ruth 1:8–22.`

Ruth saw Naomi at the lowest of moments: when she tried to push her daughter-in-law away and when, angry and depressed, she lashed out against God as she recounted her losses (Ruth 1:15, 20, 21). No more eloquent testimony than Ruth’s can be given to show that youth can meet and make a commitment to a perfect God, even when introduced to Him by an imperfect parent.

`How does the notion of home as the most important mission field affect your attitude toward the people who live with you? Work together as a family to prepare a list of specific efforts your family can make to lead unsaved relatives to Christ.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Those who have children should so manage their domestic and business affairs that nothing may come in between them and the children that would lessen the parents’ influence in directing them to Christ. You should teach your children the lesson of the love of Jesus, that they may be pure in heart, in conduct, and conversation. . . . 

The Lord would work upon the hearts of the children if the parents would but co-operate with the divine agencies, but He will not undertake to do that which has been appointed as your part of the work. Parents, you must awake from your deathlike slumber.—_Child Guidance_, pp. 474, 475. 

As workers for God, our work is to begin with those nearest. It is to begin in our own home. There is no more important missionary field than this.

We need missionary fervor in our homes, that we may bring the Word of life before the members of our families and lead them to seek a home in the kingdom of God. 

The management and instruction of children is the noblest missionary work that any man or woman can undertake.—_Child Guidance_, p. 476. 

Service to God includes personal ministry. By personal effort we are to co-operate with Him for the saving of the world. Christ’s commission, “Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature,” is spoken to every one of His followers. (Mark 16:15.) All who are ordained unto the life of Christ are ordained to work for the salvation of their fellow men. Their hearts will throb in unison with the heart of Christ. The same longing for souls that He has felt will be manifest in them. Not all can fill the same place in the work, but there is a place and a work for all. 

In ancient times, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses with his meekness and wisdom, and Joshua with his varied capabilities, were all enlisted in God’s service. The music of Miriam, the courage and piety of Deborah, the filial affection of Ruth, the obedience and faithfulness of Samuel, the stern fidelity of Elijah, the softening, subduing influence of Elisha—all were needed. So now all upon whom God’s blessing has been bestowed are to respond by actual service; every gift is to be employed for the advancement of His kingdom and the glory of His name.—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, pp. 300, 301.

Christ first selected a few persons, and bade them follow Him. Then they went in search of their relatives and acquaintances and brought them to Christ. This is the way we are to labor. A few souls brought out and fully established on the truth will, like the first disciples, be laborers for others. . . .

Do not neglect speaking to your neighbors, and doing them all the kindness in your power. . . . We need to seek for the spirit that constrained the apostle Paul to go from house to house, pleading with tears, and teaching “repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ.”—_Reflecting Christ_, p. 245. 