---
title:  Further Thought
date:  21/06/2019
---

`Further Thought: Ellen G. White, “A Powerful Christian Witness,” pp. 35–39; “Attitude Toward an Unbelieving Companion,” pp. 348–352, in The Adventist Home; “Ministry of the Home,” pp. 349–355, in The Ministry of Healing; “The Ambassadors From Babylon,” pp. 340–348, in Prophets and Kings.`

The power of the home in evangelism. “Far more powerful than any sermon that can be preached is the influence of a true home upon human hearts and lives. . . .

“Our sphere of influence may seem narrow, our ability small, our opportunities few, our acquirements limited; yet wonderful possibilities are ours through a faithful use of the opportunities of our own homes.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pp. 352, 355.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Ask anyone in class if it were the influence of someone’s home that helped them make a decision for Christ. Discuss just what it was that made such an impression. What can the class learn from that experience?`

`In what practical ways can you as a class minister to a family with an unbelieving spouse?`

`As a class, talk about some of the pressures in the home that work against faith. Write up a list of some of these things; then across from them, write down possible solutions.`

`The private lives of Christians are a means of witness to children, unbelieving spouses, other relatives, and visitors. While faith sharing at home may not always be as complete as one would like or result in the conversion of relatives and visitors, imperfect family members seek to point the way to a perfect Savior. Through generous hospitality expressed in the Savior’s name, they bring within the realm of grace all whose lives they touch. Think about the influence of your home on those who come to visit. What could you do to make it a better witness of faith for all who step within your doors?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Adventist Home_, “A Powerful Christian Witness,” pp. 35–39;

_Prophets and Kings_, “The Ambassadors From Babylon,” pp. 340–348.