---
title:  How to Be Holy
date:   17/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 119:1-16; Psalm 90; Psalm 81:7, 8; Psalm 141; Psalm 1:1-3.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Teach us how short our lives are so that we can become wise” (Psalm 90:12, ERV).

As we saw last week, God can forgive us because of His mercy. God can give us new hearts and make us holy because of His mercy, too.

The Bible teaches us how to live a holy life (Psalm 119:9). This teaching includes obeying God’s law. When we keep God’s law, we will live in a close relationship with Him. Then God will fill our lives with blessings (Psalm 119:1, 2; Psalm 128). This promise is good news.

Does God’s promise to bless us mean that our lives as Christians will be easy from now on? Of course not. Sin is powerful (Psalm 141:2-4). If we aren’t careful, sin may separate us from God. God gives us tests. He also allows Satan to tempt us or try to get us to sin. Why? God wants to show us what is in our hearts. If God’s children obey Him, God will make their faith strong. Their trust in God will grow. Tests and troubles will come to us. God allows these things to happen so that we can learn how to be holy. We must pray and ask God to help us to know how short our lives are. Then we will grow in wisdom (Psalm 90:12). When we pray this prayer, we show God that we want to live with faith and trust in Him forever.