---
title:  A Careful Study Of God’s Teachings
date:   18/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How do we keep God’s law? What blessings do we get from keeping it? Read Psalm 119:1-16 and verses 161-168 for the answers.`

What is a life of faith? A life of faith is the same as going on a journey with God for the rest of our lives. On this journey, we will keep God’s law (Psalm 119:1). His love is the same as a light that shines on us during our journey with Him (Psalm 89:15). We also promise to serve and obey God with all our hearts (Psalm 119:1, 2, 10).

When we follow God’s teachings, we will live holy lives (Psalm 119:1). Our lives will be the same as a perfect offering to God (Exodus 12:5). We will be the same as “living” offerings (Romans 12:1). We will hate sin. Sin makes the heart dirty. God’s love makes us clean. When we give ourselves fully to God, we will do the things that make God happy (Psalm 101:2, 6; also read Psalm 18:32).

God’s commandments are more than a set of rules. When we keep God’s law, we will understand what is right and what is wrong, what is good and what is evil (Psalm 111:10; also read 1 Chronicles 22:12). Our obedience to God’s law changes more than our behavior. God’s law will change our hearts and minds, too.

God’s commandments show His plan for everyone on the earth. God’s law shows us how to be wise and how to live in freedom and peace (Psalm 119:7-11, 133). In Psalm 119, the poet loves God’s law because the law teaches him that God will keep His promises (Psalm 119:77, 174).

“Those [people] who love your teachings will find true [real] peace. Nothing can make them fall [cause them to fail or sin]” (Psalm 119:165, ERV). In the Bible, “falling down” is a word picture for failing God or for sinning. God’s Word, the Bible, is the same as a lamp (Psalm 119:105) that shines with light and shows us the road to heaven. The Bible protects us from tripping and falling into sin (Psalm 119:110) on the way there.

`How did Jesus show in His life that God’s Word is very powerful (Matthew 4:1-11)? How does your answer help you understand why we should obey God’s law?`