---
title:  Teach Us How Short Our Lives Are
date:   19/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How long do we live compared to God? Read Psalm 90; Psalm 102:11; and Psalm 103:14-16 for the answer.`

Human life is very short compared to God, who lives forever. In God’s eyes, 1,000 years are the same as three or four hours during the night (Psalm 90:4). Compared to God, our lives don’t continue for very long (Psalm 90:10). The strongest human is the same as the weakest plant (Psalm 90:5, 6; Psalm 103:15, 16). Our short lives are filled with hard work and sadness (Psalm 90:10). Many people feel sad when they remember that life is very short. They get upset that life will go on without them when they die.

Psalm 90 shows us that God cares for us, all during our very short lives. The Lord is the same as a shelter for His people (Psalm 90:1, 2). As our shelter, the Lord is a safe place for His people during hard times.

Psalm 90 also teaches us that God is very angry at sin. The poet says: “No one really knows the full power [strength] of your anger” (Psalm 90:11, ERV). No one felt all God’s anger against sin. That’s because God holds His anger back and shows us His mercy. So, we have hope. God allows us many chances to say we are sorry for sin. We may come to Him and ask for wisdom to be holy.

Wisdom in the Bible means more than our having knowledge or being smart. Wisdom is respect for God. What type of wisdom do we need? We need wisdom to know that our lives are very short. The number of years that we will live is limited. When we understand this Bible truth, we will become wise. This wisdom will teach us about faith and obedience. We can get this wisdom only when we confess our sins and stop doing them (Psalm 90:8, 12). Then we must accept God’s gifts of forgiveness, love, and mercy (Psalm 90:13, 14).

Our problem is that we are sinners. Sin has hurt this earth and ruined so many lives.

Thanks to Jesus, God made a way for us to be saved from the sin problem (John 1:29; John 3:14-21). Without Jesus, we have no hope at all.

`Yes, our lives are very short. What hope do we have in Jesus (John 3:16)? What hope do we have without Him?`