---
title:  The Lord’s Test
date:   20/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 81:7, 8; Psalm 95:7-11; and Psalm 105:17-22. What do these verses teach us about the tests that God gives us?`

Meribah is the place where Israel gave God a test. Israel didn’t trust God to keep His promise to take care of their needs (Exodus 17:1-7; Psalm 95:8, 9). Psalm 81 looks at the story about Meribah in a new way. The poet who wrote Psalm 81 says that God gave Israel a test at Meribah (Psalm 81:7). When Israel disobeyed God and refused to trust in Him (Psalm 81:11), the people failed God’s test.

Psalm 81 teaches us two important lessons about Meribah. First, God’s people must not make the same mistakes their fathers made in the past. God’s people must trust God and obey Him (Psalm 81:13). Second, God saved His people after they failed the test He gave them (Psalm 81:7). God’s saving mercy in the past gives us hope that God will show us mercy in the future.

Psalm 105 shows us that God uses hard times as a test. God gave Joseph a test to remove any doubt from his heart about His promise. The test also helped to make Joseph’s faith in God strong. Joseph learned to trust in God to lead him (Genesis 37:5-10; Psalm 105:19).

We understand why God gives us tests. But why does God punish us? When God punishes His people, He wants them to learn from their mistakes. He wants them to grow strong and be ready for His blessings. That’s why God allowed Joseph to have a hard life when he was young (Psalm 105:20-22). But we must learn from our tests. If we reject God’s lessons, our hearts will grow hard and stubborn.

“God expects His children to obey His law right away and without question. But people are asleep. Satan’s lies keep them from doing what is right. Satan gives them excuses not to keep God’s law. Satan lies and causes people to do what they know is wrong. Satan uses the same lie he used with Eve in the Garden of Eden. ‘You will not die’ [Genesis 3:4, ERV]. When we disobey God, we harden our hearts. We cause other people to sin, too. At first, our sin looks very bad to them. But after a while, our sin stops looking so evil in their eyes because they get used to the sin. They question if the sin is really sin at all. Then they start doing the same sin.”—Ellen G. White, _Testimonies for the Church_, volume 4, page 146, adapted.