---
title:  The Way Sin Works In Our Hearts
date:   21/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What does the poet pray for in Psalm 141?`

Psalm 141 is a prayer for protection. The poet asks God to protect Him from sin. The poet is in danger from evil people and the plans they make against him (Psalm 141:9, 10). The poet is also in danger from the sin in his own heart. The poet says that his heart is the real danger to his safety. That’s because the war between good and evil happens in the heart. At times, the poet wants to sin and join with people who do evil.

Will the poet follow God’s wisdom? Or will the poet join evil people in a life of sin (Psalm 141:4, 5)? The only thing that can save the poet from sinning is praying and trusting fully in God (Psalm 141:1, 2). So, the poet prays for help. The poet asks God to help him control what he says and for strength to say no to sin (Psalm 141:3, 4).

`Read Psalm 1:1 and Psalm 141:4. What do these poems teach us about sin and evil?`

Psalm 141:4 shows us how sin works. First, sin starts in the heart. Sin causes us to want to do evil. Second, sin causes us to act and to do evil. After we sin the first time, we often keep sinning again and again. Third, we accept evil into our hearts as something that is good.

In the same way, Psalm 1:1 tells us what happens when we sin. Sin prevents God’s children from following God and obeying His commandments. Sin causes us to join evil people who break God’s law and who make fun of God. God commands us not to behave as these sinners behave. We must not allow them to lead us away from the Lord.

The Book of Psalms shows us that the only way we can be safe from sin is to depend on the Lord. The Lord will make us free from sin. The Book of Psalms teaches us to control what we say. We must choose our words carefully. We also must be careful to follow only God. Evil people will give us advice that leads us away from God. We must go to God for wisdom because He will judge both good people and evil people (Psalm 1:4-6; Psalm 141:8-10). Until that time, God’s people must be patient and trust in Him.