---
title:  A Holy Life And Its Many Blessings
date:   22/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What blessings does God promise to people who honor Him? Read Psalm 1:1-3; Psalm 112:1-9; and Psalm 128 for the answer.`

God promises many blessings to the people who honor Him. Peace is one of the most wonderful blessings that God gives. Psalm 1 compares a holy person to a tree. The tree grows next to a stream of water. Fruit grows on the tree. The leaves of the tree don’t dry up and die (Psalm 1:3; also read Jeremiah 17:7, 8 and Ezekiel 47:12). The word picture of the tree shows us that God is the One who blesses the tree. When we live in faith with God in His temple in heaven, we will enjoy a loving relationship with Him. Evil people are not the same as the lovely tree, with its fruit and green leaves. Evil people are the same as straw that the wind blows away. Evil people have no future hope. God’s people have the hope of everlasting life.

Psalm 128:2, 3 talk about the blessings we will enjoy on the new earth. At that time, we will sit under our own grape vines and fig trees. These plants are symbols of peace (Micah 4:4). In Psalm 122, the poet asks people to pray for God to bless Jerusalem with peace (Psalm 122:6-8; Psalm 128:5, 6). This prayer shows the poet’s hope in the coming Savior who will end evil and bring peace on earth.

“In the Bible, God promises His people a special gift. This gift is ‘a country.’ Hebrews 11:14-16. Jesus is the Shepherd from heaven. Jesus leads His flock to the living waters to drink. The tree of life is there, too. The tree of life grows new fruit every month. The leaves from the tree of life help people heal. In heaven, there are streams that always flow with clear water. Next to the streams, the shadows of the trees make the walking paths cool with shade. The Lord made these paths for His people. Beyond the plains are beautiful hills and the tall mountains of God. The plains are a place of peace. There, God’s people shall find a home. They won’t be pilgrims or wanderers anymore.”—Ellen G. White, _The Great Controversy_, page 675, adapted.

This hope of a new life will happen when Jesus makes the earth new (Matthew 26:29; Revelation 21). Then God will give us everything He promised.

`How does the Cross show us that God will keep His promise to us to make the earth new again?`