---
title:  Additional thought
date:   23/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In today’s modern life, most people want to be happy more than they want to be wise. Can we really be happy in this life without God’s wisdom? The Book of Psalms says we can’t. The good news is that God doesn’t ask us to choose between wisdom and happiness. God’s wisdom brings real happiness to our lives.

In the Bible, wisdom and happiness are more than ideas. They are real experiences that come from our knowing, praising, and trusting God. Psalm 25:14 says, “The Lord tells his secrets to his followers. He teaches them about his agreement [promise]” (ERV).

“Thank God for the blessings He gives to us. Think about all the proof that God gives us of His love. Make a picture in your mind of God’s many blessings. Think about these pictures as often as you can: Jesus, the Son of God, left heaven. Then Jesus became a Man so He could save us from Satan’s lies. Jesus won the fight against Satan for us. Jesus made a way possible for us to go to God in heaven. Jesus saved fallen humans from sin. Jesus connected us with God again. Jesus helps us to pass our different tests in life. Jesus is our God and our Savior. He covers us in His holy life the same as clothes. Then Jesus invites us to sit down with Him on His throne in heaven. God wants us to make pictures in our minds about all these things and think about them carefully.”—Ellen G. White, _Steps to Christ_, page 118, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`The Bible teaches us many things. How can Bible knowledge also give us joy? Jesus is the Living Word, or Bible. Why must we invite Jesus to live in our hearts if we want to learn from God’s Word, the Bible?`

`What happens today when God’s people continue to reject His teaching as the Israelites did (Psalm 81; Psalm 95)? Why does God say these “modern” Israelites “ ‘will never enjoy the rest I planned for them’ ” (Psalm 95:11, NIrV)?`

`Sometimes a life of sin looks more exciting and fun than a holy life of obedience (Psalm 141). Why do we like sin more than a holy life? Many people who reject God enjoy success. How do we explain their “success”?`