---
title:  Earth’s Final “Storm”
date:   15/06/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Revelation 13:13–17; Joel 2:21–24; The Great Controversy, chapters 37, 38.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Learn the truth and never reject it. Get wisdom, self-control and understanding” (Proverbs 23:23, ICB).

Imagine in your mind that you have a teenage daughter. She is driving home from college for summer vacation. As you wait for her to arrive, you check the weather reports. A storm is coming. You feel worried as the wind grows stronger. Heavy rain pours down. Trees are blown over. Soon the road home is blocked with fallen trees. Then a neighbor tells you that a sideroad is open. Your daughter can drive safely around some of the fallen branches. You finally get a text message to your daughter. You tell her the best route to take to come home safely.

More than anything, Jesus wants to lead us through the “storms” of life and get us safely home. Ellen G. White warns, “A storm [trouble in the end times] is coming. This storm will be terrible. Are your ready for it?”—Testimonies for the Church, volume 8, p. 315, adapted. Jesus came to this earth to live and die for us. Now He works in heaven’s temple to make sure we get safely home. The Books of Daniel and Revelation are lessons for God’s end-time people. These lessons will help us meet life’s final storms or troubles.

This week, we will learn what the Bible says we need to do to get ready for earth’s final fight. We will learn how Jesus’ strength will get us safely home.