---
title:  Loyal To God And To The Bible
date:   16/06/2024
---

`Read Proverbs 23:23; John 8:32; and John 17:17. What same thing do these verses teach us?`

All through history, the worldwide war between God and Satan has been a fight between good and evil. Satan is a liar. He is also the inventor of lies (John 8:44). Jesus is the truth. He said, “ ‘I am the Way and the Truth and the Life’ ” (John 14:6, NLV). The truth makes us free from Satan’s lies. Where do we find this truth? In the Bible, God’s Living Word. The Bible uncovers Satan’s plans and shows us God’s plans. The Bible is the same as a lamp that shows us the way to heaven (Psalm 119:105). The poet who wrote Psalm 119 says to the Lord, “As people understand your word [the Bible], it brings light [wisdom] to their lives. Your word makes even [also] simple [foolish] people wise” (Psalm 119:130, ERV). Then the poet adds, “Every word you say can be trusted” (Psalm 119:160, ERV).

`Read 2 Peter 1:16–21. What does Peter tell us in these verses about special messages from God? What word picture does he use to help us understand that God’s special messages are important?`

Peter says, “The things we told you were not just clever stories that people invented. . . . This [the things we told you; our experience with Jesus] makes us more sure about what the prophets [God’s special messengers] said” (2 Peter 1:16, ERV). The Bible helps us understand right from wrong. Without the Bible, we would be easily tricked. “The Bible is our sure defense. It protects us from false teachers and lying spirits. Satan uses everything he can to prevent us from learning Bible truth. The Bible uncovers Satan’s lies and tricks. . . . Satan is about to tell his last big lie. He will do many miracles. Satan’s miracles will look as if they are really from God. Bible truth is the only thing that will help us know these miracles are from Satan. . . . The only people who will be safe during this final fight will be the ones who know Bible truth. Every person must answer the question, Will I obey God or men? The testing time is almost here. Have you filled your mind with Bible truth? Are you ready to defend God’s law? Do you have the same faith that Jesus had?”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 593, 594, adapted.