---
title:  Heaven’s Mark
date:   17/06/2024
---

The coming test will be about worship. God’s people will not give up their faith or break His law (Revelation 14:12). The Holy Spirit will mark God’s people at that time (Ephesians 4:30). This mark shows that nothing can convince God’s people to worship the sea beast or his statue. In Bible times, people put special marks on important papers or records. A mark showed that you could trust the paper or record. A mark also showed who the paper or record belonged to. God has a special mark and an important record, the Bible, which contains His law. The final fight will be about worship and God’s law. So, we should expect to find God’s mark in His law (compare Isaiah 8:16).

`Read about the Sabbath commandment in Exodus 20:8–11. What parts of a mark does the Sabbath commandment have?`

The Sabbath commandment shows us three parts of a real and true mark: (1) the name of the person who owns the mark, (2) his job, and (3) his territory. So, we see that the mark belongs to “the Lord your God” (Exodus 20:10, ERV). What is His job? He is the One who “made” everything (Exodus 20:11, ERV). What is His territory? Because He made all things, His territory is “the sky, the earth, the sea, and everything in them” (Exodus 20:11, ERV). A mark is sometimes named a sign in the Bible (Romans 4:11). The two words mean the same thing. As God’s mark or seal, the Sabbath will be the final test in the end times. So, the final fight between God and Satan will be about worship (Ezekiel 20:12, 20; Revelation 12:17).

`Compare Revelation 7:1–3 and Revelation 14:1 with Revelation 13:16, 17. Where is God’s mark put on people? Where is the beast’s mark put on people? What is different about the two marks?`

God’s mark is put in the forehead. The forehead is the top part of the face above the eyes. What is behind the forehead? Your mind. So, God’s mark isn’t put only on the forehead. God’s mark is put in the forehead to show that a person chooses to obey God’s law. The beast’s mark is put in the forehead or in the hand. The mark in the mind shows that people believe Satan’s lies. The mark in the hand shows they accept his lies to avoid being killed.