---
title:  Who Will We Worship?
date:   18/06/2024
---

In the final days of earth’s history, the worldwide war between God and Satan will be about worship. Do we worship Jesus, the One who made us? Or do we worship the beast and its false statue? Jesus and Satan are our only two choices. The first angel in Revelation commands men and women everywhere to “worship God. He made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water [the places where water comes out of the earth]” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). The third angel warns about the terrible things that will happen to the people who worship the sea beast. They “will drink the wine of God’s great [awful] anger. His wine has been poured full strength into the cup of his anger” (Revelation 14:10, NIrV). The ones who worship Jesus “keep the laws of God and believe [have the same faith] in Jesus [that Jesus had in God the Father]” (Revelation 14:12, WE).

God made the skies and the earth in six days. This work that God did is the reason we worship Him (Revelation 4:11). Because God “made all things through [with] Jesus Christ,” (Ephesians 3:9, NMB), Satan hates Jesus. Satan has worked through kings and other leaders in the past to change the Sabbath. The Sabbath helps us remember that God made the skies and earth in six days. The coming fight about the law of God also will be about control. If Satan can get rid of Sabbath worship, he will announce that he controls the earth, and God doesn’t. How will Satan get away with getting rid of the Sabbath? He will try to convince or force everyone on earth to accept a fake sabbath.

`Read Revelation 13:13–17. What punishments will people get who refuse to accept the mark of the beast?`

People who are loyal to Jesus will be punished with laws that won’t allow them to buy or sell. They will be forced to pay money as punishment for not worshiping the beast or its false statue. A law will be made to kill God’s people. We don’t know how the final test will happen. But we see that we will suffer for our faith. Without God, people are evil. Jesus knew this Bible truth. John says that Jesus “ did not need anyone to tell him about people. Jesus knew what was in a person’s mind [heart]” (John 2:25, ICB). Again, maybe we can’t understand now how all these awful things will happen. But we do know that people who don’t know God can do awful things to each other.