---
title:  The Early And The Late Rains
date:   19/06/2024
---

`What did Joel say that the Lord would do for His people? When did God keep that promise? What happened after the early rain fell? Read Joel 2:21–24 and Acts 2:1–4, 41–47 for the answers.`

God poured His Spirit on Jesus’ followers during Pentecost. Pentecost was the time when God kept His promise to pour His Spirit on His church after Jesus went back to heaven. Acts records many miracles that happened during Pentecost. 3,000 people gave their lives to Jesus in one day. “But many [people] who heard the message believed. The number of men who believed grew to about 5,000” (Acts 4:4, NIrV). The church started with 120 people. They came together to pray. God answered their prayers in a big way. Thousands of people joined the church. Also, “a big group of Jewish priests [spiritual leaders] believed and obeyed” (Acts 6:7, ERV). With the Holy Spirit’s help, Jesus’ followers preached the Good News all over the earth in a very short time. God’s promise in the Book of Joel about the early rain happened at Pentecost. But the late rains will fall with more strength. God will send these rains to get people ready for Jesus’ Second Coming.

`How will God finish His work on earth? Read Zechariah 4:6; Zechariah 10;1; Hosea 6:3; and James 5:7, 8 for the answer.`

The words “early rains” and “late rains” are farm language. The early rains fell on the fields in the fall to help plants to grow. The late rains fell in the spring on the crops to help ripen them. The early rains and the late rains are word pictures for the work the Holy Spirit does to help us announce the Good News. “The ‘early rains’ is a word picture for the time when God poured His Holy Spirit on the church at Pentecost. The Spirit caused the Good News to grow the same as seed in people’s hearts. In the same way, God will give the ‘late rains.’ He will pour His Spirit on His people in the end times to help them finish His work on earth. . . . God’s work in the end times will end with more power than it started with at Pentecost. The special messages about the ‘early rain’ will happen again with the ‘late rains’ before Jesus comes back again.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 611, 612, adapted.