---
title:  The Strong Shout
date:   20/06/2024
---

`Read Revelation 18:1–4; Habbakuk 2:14; and Matthew 24:14. How will God’s work on earth be finished? Read Revelation 18:1–4; Habakkuk 2:14; and Matthew 24:14 for the answer.`

The angel in Revelation 18 announces Babylon’s sins. This angel is very powerful. This angel, the same as the first three angels in Revelation 14, is a word picture for human messengers. The angel in Revelation 18 honors God so fully that his praise for God fills the whole earth. The Bible says this angel had “much power [might; strength]” (Revelation 18:1, NLV). The Greek word for power in the New Testament is “exousia.” Bible writers often use “exousia” to talk about Jesus’ control over the demons of hell. Jesus also used the word “exousia” in the Book of Matthew when He sent out His followers to do God’s work. In Matthew 10:1, Jesus gives His followers control over the demons and powers of hell. Jesus sends His followers out with strength from heaven to win the fight against evil. Later, after Jesus wakes up from the dead, He sends out His followers again. Jesus says to them, “ ‘All power in heaven and on earth has been given to me. So go and make disciples [new followers] in all countries’ ” (Matthew 28:18, 19, WE).

`The Holy Spirit filled Jesus’ followers with His strength. In a few short years, Jesus’ followers announced the Good News everywhere on earth (Colossians 1:23).`

At the end of time, God will pour the Holy Spirit on His church in more power than He poured it out at any time in the past. With the Holy Spirit’s help, God’s end-time church will share the Good News about Jesus everywhere on earth. Then thousands of people everywhere will give their lives to Jesus every day. God’s mercy and Bible truth will change this whole planet. In this way, everyone on earth will be warned. The Good News and the hope it offers about Jesus will be shared worldwide.

“God’s servants will go from place to place in a very short time. Their faces will shine with holy light from God. They will announce the message from heaven. Thousands of people all over the earth will give the warning. God’s people will do miracles. They will heal the sick. They will show many powerful signs from God and do wonderful works in His Name.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 612, adapted.