---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   21/06/2024
---

“Everyone who refuses to accept the false sabbath will be punished. Finally, people will announce that Sabbath keepers must be killed. But God’s law commands us to keep the seventh-day Sabbath holy. God rested on this day after He made the skies and earth. God’s law commands us to honor the Sabbath. God warns us that He will punish everyone who breaks His commandments.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 604, adapted.

“A storm [trouble in the end times] is coming. When God’s people see the storm about to fall on them, many of them will give up their faith in the third angel’s message and join God’s enemies. These false Adventists believed in the third angel’s message. But they didn’t obey Bible truth, so their lives were not made holy. These false Adventists joined with the people on this earth and have much the same views. When the final test comes, these false Adventists are ready to choose the easy, popular side. They use their skills and talents to trick and lie to people. These same people loved Bible truth in the past. But now they become the worst enemies of the men and women who were their Christian brothers and sisters. When Sabbath keepers stand in the courts to answer for their faith, these false Adventists are Satan’s best servants. Satan uses them to accuse them and lie about the Sabbath keepers. These false Adventists make false reports about the Sabbath keepers and cause the leaders in the land to be angry with them.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 608, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why do we need to understand end-time happenings? How will our understanding these things help us in the coming time of trouble? How does the Bible protect us from Satan’s many tricks and lies?`

`Many countries worldwide have protected religious freedom for hundreds of years. How could that freedom change in a short time?`

`Look at the last quote from Ellen G. White above. What choices are you making today that could cause you to join with those false Adventists tomorrow?`

`God will send the late rains to help us finish His work on earth. What can we do to get ready for the late rains?`