---
title:  “Please Show Me Your Glory”
date:   13/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 33:7–11; Exodus 33:12–17; Exodus 33:18–23; Exodus 34:1–28; Exodus 34:29–35.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The Lord passed in front of Moses and said, ‘I am the Lord. The Lord is a God who shows mercy and is kind. The Lord doesn’t become angry quickly. The Lord has great [powerful and deep] love and faithfulness [can be trusted]. The Lord is kind to thousands of people. The Lord forgives people for wrong and sin and turning against him. But the Lord does not forget to punish guilty people. The Lord will punish not only the guilty people. He will also punish their children, their grandchildren, their great-grandchildren and their great-great-grandchildren’ ” (Exodus 34:6, 7, ICB).

We all need to grow in our walk with God. Without growth, we are dead. Peter says: “Grow in the grace [mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin] and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Glory [praise and honor] belongs to him both now and forever. Amen” (2 Peter 3:18, NIrV). We need to be willing to grow. We are daily in God’s university. We will never graduate. We will be students always who are forever learning. As you grow, you can be perfect in each part of your life if you allow God to help you become the person that He meant you to be in Jesus.

This week we will study about how Moses knew and followed God’s commands. Because Moses did these things, he grew in his walk with the Lord.