---
title:  The Meeting Tent
date:   14/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Why did God ask Moses to build the Meeting Tent? Read Exodus 33:7–11.`

We must not confuse the Meeting Tent with the Holy Tent. The Israelites built the Meeting Tent outside their camp. Then they built the Holy Tent in the center of the camp. Another name for the Holy Tent in the desert was the tabernacle. We don’t know how often Moses talked with God in the Meeting Tent. We do know one thing for sure: Moses’ meetings with God caused a close friendship between them. “The Lord spoke to Moses face to face as a man speaks with his friend” (Exodus 33:11, ICB). A friend is someone who can give us good advice. We can discuss most everything with a friend and trust that he won’t share our secrets with other people. A friend is a nice thing to have and a nice thing to be.

In Exodus 19–34, the story of Moses teaches us how God changes our lives. How did God build a relationship with Moses, who was an outstanding leader? If we study the life of Moses, we will see how he grew in his knowledge about God’s power and love. Spiritual growth is an important part of our relationship with God.

Before Moses arrived at Sinai, God used him in a mighty way. God helped Moses get ready for his special job as Israel’s leader. In the land of Midian, Moses took care of sheep. During his time there, God helped Moses to write two books: Job and Genesis. Then, at the burning bush, God told Moses to lead His people out of Egypt. Moses saw God defeat the Egyptian gods and the mighty Egyptian army in the Red Sea. Moses saw for many weeks how God led Israel from Egypt to Sinai. God gave His law to Moses on the mountain. This experience caused Moses’ face to shine. Then Moses led Israel for another 39 years to the border of the Promised Land. The Bible tells us that Moses was a loyal servant of God (Deuteronomy 34:5; Joshua 1:1). Moses was God’s special messenger who was the same as a light in the dark (Deuteronomy 18:15, 18). Moses encouraged God’s people to change for the better, even if the people didn’t always obey him. When the people did obey, they enjoyed success.

`We may learn much from Moses. His life story shows us what God can do when we let Him change us. What wonderful things happened in your life when you let God change you?`