---
title:  So That I May Know You
date:   15/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What did Moses ask the Lord to teach him? Why did Moses want God to lead them in a visible way? Read Exodus 33:12–17 for the answers.`

Moses’ spiritual growth continued. He became close to the Lord and wished to be the same as God in his heart. When Moses talked with God in the Meeting Tent, Moses understood that he didn’t know God. So, Moses prayed, “ ‘If you are pleased with me, teach me more about yourself. Then I can know you’ ” (Exodus 33:13, NIrV). Moses understood his deep need to understand God better. Moses learned that the more he learned about the Lord, the less he really knew Him. Moses saw his need and wished with his whole heart to know the Lord in a new way. God gave Moses what he wanted.

As we look at Moses’ spiritual experiences so far, we see how the Lord led Moses into a deeper relationship with Him. This relationship helped Moses grow strong.

First, Moses climbed the mountain and “went up to God” (Exodus 19:3, NKJV). Next, Moses went “to the top of the mountain” (Exodus 19:20, NKJV). Later, Moses approached the thick, dark cloud that hid God (Exodus 20:21).

Another time, “Moses entered the cloud” where God was and stayed with the Lord 40 days and 40 nights (Exodus 24:18, NIV). During these 40 days, God gave Moses two precious gifts. (1) God gave Moses the Ten Commandments. God wrote them on two pieces of stone, which He cut from the mountain Himself (Exodus 24:12). (2) God gave Moses a special building plan to build and furnish the Holy Tent (read Exodus 25–31).

Then Moses spent another 40 days and nights with the Lord. Moses asked God to have mercy on His people, who sinned against Him (Exodus 32:30–32; Deuteronomy 9:18).

Even after all these powerful experiences, Moses wanted to know more about God. So, God soon gave Moses special lessons to understand Him better. Moses wanted more than information about God. Moses wanted a deeper experience and relationship with God.

No wonder Jesus would say later: “ ‘And this is eternal [everlasting] life: that people can know you, the only true God, and that they can know Jesus Christ, the one you sent’ ” (John 17:3, ERV). What was the best way for God to help humans know Him better? He became one of us.