---
title:  Please Show Me Your Glory
date:   16/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

After Israel worshiped the gold cow, Moses asked God to show mercy to His people. Moses wanted to be sure that the Lord would continue to lead Israel to the Promised Land. Deep down in his heart, Moses wanted to know the Lord better, too.

`How did God answer Moses’ wish to see His glory? Read Exodus 33:18–23 for the answer.`

Moses asked the Lord, “ ‘Please show me your Glory [shining might]’ ” (Exodus 33:18, ERV). Yes, God showed Moses His glory. But when God answered, do you see how He also promised to show Moses His “love and mercy” (verse 19, ERV)? So, what does this information tell us? We can safely say that God’s glory is His love and mercy (read Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 576; Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 414, 415; Prophets and Kings, page 313).

“God is praised and honored when His children accept His love and mercy. God wants to see men and women become everything that He plans for them to be.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 530, adapted. God is praised and honored when sinners stop doing evil and come back to Him (read Prophets and Kings, page 668). God gives sinners everything they need to change for the better. At the same time, we give God glory, honor, and praise when we show His love and mercy in our own lives and to other people.

We must show God’s love and forgiveness in our behavior and actions. Then we will be a blessing to other people. We also will be a shining light to people on other planets who are watching what is happening in the war between God and Satan on this earth. As Paul says, “I think that God has made a show of us missionaries [Christian workers who share with other people the Good News about Jesus]. We are the last and the least among men. We are like [the same as] men waiting to be put to death [killed]. The whole world [everyone on earth], men and angels alike, are watching us” (1 Corinthians 4:9, NLV). Wow! Angels and people on other planets are watching us. This idea gives a powerful meaning to our lives that we can hardly begin to understand!

In Romans 2:4, Paul says that “God is kind. He is trying to get you to be sorry for your sins and turn from [stop doing] them” (NLV). God’s love convinces people that they are sinners who need to be saved.