---
title:  God Shows Moses His Glory
date:   17/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`How did God show His glory to Moses? Read Exodus 34:1–28 for the answer.`

Moses started his climb early in the morning. He needed to take with him two pieces of stone, the same as the first ones, which he broke (Exodus 32:19). Moses went to meet with the Lord on Sinai for the 7th time. Moses climbed the mountain six other times in the past: (1) Exodus 19:3, 7; (2) Exodus 19:8, 14; (3) Exodus 19:20, 25; (4) Exodus 20:21; Exodus 24:3; (5) Exodus 24:9, 12–18; Exodus 32:15; and (6) Exodus 32:30, 31.

Moses was now ready to see the beauty of God’s glory. God’s beauty is best shown in His amazing announcement of Himself. This announcement is the most important explanation of who God is. We see this same idea all through the Bible (Numbers 14:18; Nehemiah 9:17; Psalm 103:8; Joel 2:13; Jonah 4:2). The Lord’s announcement in Exodus 34:1–28 is the John 3:16 of the Old Testament. The Bible writers often talk about God’s glory. This idea helps us have a correct understanding of God’s love and forgiveness.

When God gave Moses the explanation of His name, Moses bowed down and worshiped the Lord. When we see God’s love, mercy, and forgiveness, we will want to come to Jesus. When we see His love, we start to love Him. This love leads us to serve and obey Him. Because God loves us, we love Him back (1 John 4:19).

In God’s announcement of His love, He promises Moses that He will do wonderful things for His people. God will lead them into the Promised Land, too. God makes His Promise with His people again. God also promises that other countries will see His royal beauty and power. “Then the Lord said, ‘I am making this agreement with you. I will do miracles in front of all your people. These things have never before been done for any other nation [people group] on earth. The people with you will see my work. I, the Lord, will do wonderful things for you’ ” (Exodus 34:10, ICB).

But the Israelites needed to obey God and follow His Ten Commandments. Then they would enjoy success. To help them, God asked Moses to write down the Promise, which the people already broke (Exodus 34:27, 28).