---
title:  The Shining Face Of Moses
date:   18/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What caused Moses’ face to shine so bright? Read Exodus 34:29–35.`

After God showed who He was to Moses, Moses went back down to Israel’s camp. Moses’ face was shining. Did Moses know, at first, that his face was shining? Of course not. The closer you are to the Lord, the more you see your own weaknesses and faults compared to God’s perfect and holy life.

What happened to Moses that caused his face to shine? Was Moses’ face bright because he stood in front of God for a while? No. Remember, several times in the past, Moses was with the Lord and his face didn’t shine after those meetings. At the same time, if Moses didn’t go meet with the Lord, his face never would have shone. But when Moses understood God’s love and mercy, he completely opened himself to God because of the beauty of His love. Then Moses changed. His face shone. Our hearts and minds experience a similar change when we give ourselves fully to God and allow Him to be the Lord and King of our lives.

`How can Jesus change you so that you become loving and kind, the same as He is? Read 2 Corinthians 3:18 for the answer.`

Paul compares Moses’ shining face with Jesus Christ (2 Corinthians 3:12–18). The glory of Jesus is far more than all the glory that came with the law that God gave to Moses (2 Corinthians 3:7–11). Jesus, together with His law, can be written on our hearts. But we must first fix our eyes on Jesus (Hebrews 3:1; Hebrews 12:2). Only the power of the Holy Spirit can make this change happen.

Moses is an example for us. Moses shows us what God can do for us when we allow Him to change our hearts. God helps us to become the same as He is in our hearts. This change is what Paul means when he talks about how “we can now live a new life” (Romans 6:4, ERV).

`What parts of your life need to show God’s love and mercy better? Every part, right? How can thinking about the meaning of the Cross give you hope for an everlasting life in the Savior?`