---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   19/09/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Carefully read Ellen G. White, “Idolatry at Sinai,” pages 327–330, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

On a cloudy day, a father and his young son visited a church. They looked at the colorful windows with beautiful pictures of different Bible stories. All of a sudden, the sun started to shine in the glass pictures of people. The people in the pictures shone brightly with light all around them. The small boy asked his father, “Daddy, who are these people?” The father didn’t know much about Christianity, Jesus, or His followers. But the father quickly said, “These people are Christians.” This bright, shining picture stayed in the little boy’s mind. Later, the boy’s teacher asked in class, “Children, do you know who Christians are?” The small boy remembered the bright picture in the church. He answered, “I know. Christians are people who shine.” Jesus told His followers, “ ‘In the same way, you should be a light for other people. Live so that they will see the good things you do and praise your Father in heaven’ ” (Matthew 5:16, ERV). Only shining people can cause other people to change their lives for the better.

**Discussion Questions:**

`“We must come to God with no pride in our hearts. We must be kind, thoughtful, loving, tender, and filled with pity. Then 100 people would become Christians where now only one person accepts the Savior.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 9, page 189, adapted. What powerful message is in this quote for all of us about how our actions, thoughts, feelings, and behavior can help lead people to Jesus or push them away?`

`Exodus 34:6, 7 is known as the John 3:16 of the Old Testament. Why?`

`How can you explain the beauty of God in Exodus 34:6, 7 to people who ask you who your God is?`

`In class, ask people to talk about how Christians changed their lives. How did people who were loving, patient, and forgiving change your life for the better? How did “Christians” who were mean or filled with pride make you feel in your walk with God?`