---
title:  Remission of Sins for Everyone
date:  18/11/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 10:43

For nearly two thousand years, the knowledge of the true God circulated within the Jewish nation. However, God originally intended to bring all humanity to Him regardless of race or background. God had a heart for both the Jews and the Gentiles. His plan, from the beginning of time, was to incorporate the Gentiles into the Jewish church. Yet there was a force of prejudice among the early Christians who thought that the gospel belonged only to the Jewish nation.

On their part, the prophets echoed the intention of God (see Rom. 10:18– 20; 9:25–27), and Christ confirmed God’s intention (see Matt. 8:11, 12; John 10:16). Our goal as Christians in this age is to preach the message of salvation to “all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit” (Matt. 28:19, NABRE).

With this message in mind, two issues come out clearly:

Christ is the author of salvation. Regardless of our worship style, regardless of our participation in church, regardless of how attentive we are to the spiritual welfare of our families, these things do not grant us an express ticket to salvation. We obtain salvation only through the name and merits of Christ, whom God sent as the final sacrifice for our sins. Christ, through His death, reconciled us to God. Our acceptance with God comes through Christ only.

When the apostle Peter visited the house of Cornelius (Acts 10:25–29), he took the gospel to a Gentile, a nonmember of the Jewish household. By this step, Peter fulfilled the instruction to take the gospel to every nation (Matt. 28:19). He fulfilled the commission to share that remission of sins and salvation are possible for every person who believes in Christ (John 3:16).

Faith is the means of attaining salvation. We come to Christ as sinners so that we can obtain the remission of our sins. We obtain salvation freely through the blood and righteousness of Christ. We cannot buy salvation—we receive the blessing from Christ.

This does not mean that we should disobey God or Christ willfully. It simply drives home the point that God does not accept us because of our obedience or because of some good works that we do. Neither does Christ show favor to us based on our obedience. Instead, our salvation springs from the death of Christ and the forgiveness of our sins. The means to obtain salvation is to surrender to Christ as a sinner, and obedience is just a fruit of that allegiance. Through Christ, our salvation is guaranteed as long as we believe, regardless of our backgrounds.

---

_George Otieno, Homa-Bay, Kenya_