---
title:  Pillars of Our Unity
date:  19/11/2018
---

**Logos**: Exod. 20:8–12; Acts 10:43; 1 Cor. 15:51–54; 1 Thess. 4:13–18; Heb. 8:6

**Salvation in Jesus (Acts 10:43)**

The plan of salvation has existed with God from the beginning of time. God had a plan to deliver His people from sin and from spiritual oblivion. This could happen only through Christ. Through faith in Christ, we are saved from eternal death, which is the ultimate consequence of sin. Christ provided the perfect sacrifice for the atonement of our sins.

In the beginning, God created a perfect universe, full of harmony and love. However, the rebellion in the Garden of Eden brought separation from God. But God, in His infinite love and mercy, brought a way to reconcile humanity to Himself. Nothing could pay for the punishment of sin except the perfect sacrifice of Christ.

We believe that the plan of salvation stems from God’s love for us. We have the assurance of salvation through faith in Christ. As Adventist Christians, we affirm the belief that “Christ was set forth in the purposes of God, in the types, figures, and sacrifices of the law, and in the promises and prophecies of the Old Testament, as he that should obtain the remission of sins by his blood, without which there is no remission.”1

**Second Coming of Christ (1 Thess. 4:13–18)**

The second coming of Christ gives hope to a hopeless world. Without it, there would be no purpose in being a Christian. The Bible, in several instances, gives us the assurance that Christ can come anytime. Therefore, our level of preparedness is quite important. The apostle Paul, led by the Holy Spirit, sheds light on the subject. The Thessalonians knew that Christ would come back someday. However, they were worried about their loved ones who would sleep before the return of the Savior.

Paul sought to answer their questions, focusing on the status of believers who would pass away before Christ returns. Paul affirms that there is a difference in the way believers and nonbelievers grieve (1 Thess. 4:13). By faith in Christ, we have a blessed hope that upon His grand return, we shall be able to rejoice with Him, together with our loved ones who slept earlier. Resurrection is a sure promise (1 Cor. 15:51–54).

Our role is to encourage fellow believers with the message of hope when death strikes. We should reassure them that when our hearts stop beating, we retreat into a momentary rest as we wait for the final trumpet. As much as we feel the pain of death, the hope of Christ’s second coming expels any doubt from our minds.

**Christ’s Ministry in the Heavenly Sanctuary (Heb. 8:6)**

The book of Hebrews provides a detailed account of what Christ has been doing since He ascended to heaven. Christ continues His intercessory ministry in the heavenly sanctuary (Heb. 7:20–28). He is our High Priest in heaven. In traditional Judaism, the high priest performed the role in cleansing sinners. However, human high priests were limited in their operations by several challenges. First, they were human by nature and, therefore, prone to sin. Besides, their activities were valid only as long as they lived. Death and old age could scuttle their operations. On the contrary, Christ lives forever and, therefore, has a lasting priesthood. As Adventists, we believe in a heavenly sanctuary in which Christ reviews our lives to make it possible for each believer to benefit from His atoning sacrifice.

In the earthly sanctuary, the high priest entered the Most Holy Place with the blood of animals to perform the atoning sacrifice. In the heavenly sanctuary, Christ has entered the Most Holy Place with His own blood to stand in the gap between God and humanity. The intercessory ministry confirms the covenant of grace and love, in which Christ is the chief mediator because only His sacrifice can satisfy God’s justice.

**Remembering the Sabbath (Exod. 20:8–11)**

The Sabbath is the fourth commandment of God. Unlike other commandments before or after it, the instruction of the fourth commandment starts with the word remember.

We need no extra knowledge to know that God initiated the Sabbath at the beginning of time (Gen. 2:2, 3). God wants us, as His children, to devote the Sabbath day to His service. Yet He expects us to observe the day unconditionally. Jewish leaders during Christ’s time used the Sabbath to suit their own definitions of working on the Sabbath (Mark 2:23, 24).

Christ fulfilled the law of the Sabbath when He allowed acts of benevolence on the Sabbath. This does not mean that we engage in acts of luxury, self-indulgence, or vanity on the Sabbath. “Trading, paying wages, settling accounts, writing letters of business, worldly studies, trifling visits, journeys, or light conversation, are not keeping this day holy to the Lord. . . . The Sabbath of the Lord should be a day of rest from worldly labor, and a rest in the service of God.”2

**React**

`1. Knowing that Christ can return any time, how can we best prepare ourselves, even as we continue living in this world?`

`2. As a young adult Adventist, how does Christ’s intercessory work affirm your faith?`

---

<sup>1. “Verse-by-Verse Bible Commentary: Acts 10:43,” John Gill’s Exposition of the Whole Bible, StudyLight.org, accessed November 7, 2017, https://www.studylight.org/commentary/acts/10-43.html.</sup>

<sup>2. “Ten Commandments Exodus Chapter 20:1-17,” accessed November 7, 2017, http://www.4the10.net/commandments/exodus_20_moses_ten_commandments.htm.</sup>

_Bob Collince, Nairobi, Kenya_