---
title:  A Diligent Wait
date:  21/11/2018
---

**How-to**: Matt. 24:26, 27

The subject of the second coming of Christ has been active since Christ ascended to heaven. Nearly two thousand years have elapsed, and Christ hasn’t come back yet. Inspired by the subject, F. E. Belden wrote the song “We Know Not the Hour” (Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal, no. 604), which highlights what we already know about the coming of Christ. All the same, based on Bible records, Christians are convinced that the Second Coming draws nearer with each passing day.

However, with the long wait, many people have dropped out along the way. In addition, Satan is aware of Christ’s advent. The prince of darkness tries by every means to make the subject as cloudy as possible. False prophets have appeared, some with their own version of Christ’s second coming. As Christians in this era, we are called to focus on what the Bible says about this event. The day might be as near as now or as far as several years ahead. The following biblical facts confirm our belief in Christ’s return:

With these confirmations and more, we can be confident that the day of Christ’s second coming is worth the wait. Therefore, how can we keep our focus on the subject without yielding to pressure from the enemy?

Arm yourself with the facts. The Second Advent will be precise and public. Anything short of these standards is an enemy trap.

Know that Satan is afraid. When Christ comes, He will pronounce the final judgment on the fate of Satan and the world. Obviously, the enemy and his agents are headed for total destruction, while the righteous elect join Christ in God’s kingdom.

Keep away from scoffers. Many people doubt that Christ will come back. Such people lurk around to distract believers. The Bible advises us to keep away from such people (2 Pet. 3:3–17; Matt. 24:26).

---

_Janet Makori, Rongo Town, Kenya_