---
title:  The Blessings of the Sabbath
date:  22/11/2018
---

**Opinion**: Ezek. 20:12

The Bible explains that God gave His people the Sabbath as a covenant, “a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord that sanctify them” (Ezek. 20:12). For the people of Israel, the Sabbath was a day of both physical and spiritual rest. It was a day reserved for people to break out of their daily labor routine to have some physical rest. In addition, the Sabbath was a day to commune with God, to take their spiritual burdens to God in prayer and thanksgiving. This, in turn, led to spiritual rest.

No doubt, the Sabbath brings spiritual blessings today. First, it is a symbol of unity for us as a church. The Sabbath institution unites us across the world, regardless of our geographical barriers. It is a reminder that we serve a sovereign God who created the universe. Exodus 31:16, 17 confirms that the Sabbath is a lasting agreement between God and His people.

The principles of keeping the Sabbath are clear, as outlined in Isaiah 58:13, 14:

We are not to follow our own ways on the Sabbath. Academic affairs, sports, employment, business, or other engagements for the sake of livelihood should be suspended to give way to God’s business.

We are not to engage in our own pleasure on the Sabbath. Fifty years ago, Bill McDowell wrote, “Your desire, delight, that which you take extra pleasure in doing—hunting, fishing, golfing, swimming, cards, movies, boating. . . . Whatever your pleasure, or leisure-time activity is, you should not engage in it on the Sabbath.”1

We are not to speak our own words on the Sabbath. Sabbath keeping is all-inclusive, embracing mental, physical, and spiritual aspects of our lives. We are to use these faculties to praise God on the Sabbath.

**React**

`1. What can you do to help improve your Sabbath observance?`

`2. What is your definition of a restorative Sabbath?`

`3. Where do you draw the line between what you should and should not do on the Sabbath?`

---

<sup>1. Bill McDowell, “Keep God’s Sabbath HOLY!” Good News magazine, March 1968, p. 17, http://www.hwalibrary.com/cgi-bin/get/hwa.cgi?action=getmagazine&InfoID=1387809515&Get Mag=GN&byYear=1968&page=&return=magazines</sup>

_Ann Akoth, Nairobi, Kenya_