---
title:  United in Faith
date:  23/11/2018
---

**Exploration**: 1 John 4:9, 10

**Conclude**

Merriam-Webster English dictionary defines belief as “a state or habit of mind in which trust or confidence is placed in some person or thing.” As Adventists, we have deep-seated beliefs that define us as a church. The beliefs correspond to key Bible teachings. They shape our lives and inform our understanding of the Bible. They direct our actions as Adventists. As we wait for Christ’s return to take us home, we hang on to the beliefs and to God’s Word as our guides for showing love to God and our fellow believers.

**Consider**

- Developing a meme of Acts 4:12, “Nor is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved” (NKJV). Share this idea on your social media platforms.
- Journaling on what it really takes to keep the Sabbath holy.
- Performing a play on the second coming of Christ. What role would you like to play and why?
- Writing a short poem in your native language, entitled “My Daily Dose of Salvation.” The objective is to portray your love for Christ the Savior. Recite the poem in the evening before you go to bed and in the morning when you wake up.
- Drawing a structure of the heavenly sanctuary. Use color to denote the Most Holy Place and reflect what Christ does there for you as a person.
- Drawing three different images of the same person: one image to represent the person during life before death, another image to represent the person in death, and the third image to represent the person on the resurrection day. What are the differences and similarities between the images?
- Singing “Holy Sabbath Day of Rest” (Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal, no. 381, by L. E. C. Joers). Mark the words and reflect on the special rest you derive from the Sabbath as an individual.


**Connect**

J. L. Shuler, God’s Everlasting Sign (Nashville, TN: Southern Publishing, 1972).

Humberto M. Rasi and Nancy J. Vyhmeister, Always Prepared (Nampa, ID: Pacific Press®, 2012).

Roger J. Morneau, A Trip Into the Supernatural (Fallbrook, CA: Hart Research Center, 1991), DVD.

---

_Samuel Ochieng’, Rongo University, Kenya_