---
title:  Grace to You and Peace from God Our Father
date:  04/04/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: 1 Kings 17:1–9; 18:1

Grace to You and Peace from God Our Father

You might have heard the anecdotes that warn against the dangers of random Bible study. One person flipped through her Bible and pointed to a verse to determine what was God’s will for her. She came to Matthew 27:5: “Then he threw down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed, and went and hanged himself.” Incredulous, she tried again only to arrive at Luke 10:37: “Jesus said to him, ‘Go and do likewise.’ ” With another prayer and random stab, she concluded at John 13:27, which read, “Jesus said to him, ‘What you do, do quickly.’ ”

In another anecdote, the man uses the same method to decide God’s choice for a future wife. He comes to one of Paul’s verses that reads, “Grace to you and peace from God our Father.” Later that morning, he walks into the church service, where a praise team is getting ready for song service. The praise leader introduces her team and then herself. Her name is Grace. At that moment, the man knows whom God wants him to marry.

Numerous questions arise after we hear these anecdotes. Were they true or just urban myths? Did the woman follow through after finding those verses in the first account? Did the man ask Grace to be his wife in the second account? What would have happened if he met another woman named Peace? Would God have allowed for polygamy in this instance (God forbid!). Is there a method to reading and studying the Bible? How is the will of God ascertained from Scripture? These are the issues we will touch on in this week’s lesson.

#### inScribe

Write out 1 Kings 17:1–9; 18:1 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``