---
title:  Beyond the Revelation
date:  08/04/2020
---

#### inVite

Beyond any art of interpretation or systematic method of ascertaining truth, studying the Bible for God’s will is, in essence, the discovery of the mind and heart of God. While religious and theology books (and even Bible study guides such as this one) might get bogged down with the mechanics of it all, the greatest revelation is not the actual direction of the decision but the Revealer of the direction Himself.

Oh, how He longs to reveal His full mind and heart to us! He did so at Creation in revealing the beauty of His creations and creatures to Adam. He did so to Israel when revealing the instructions to build the Sanctuary so that He might dwell with them. He did so through the messages of the prophets who pointed people back to God and away from our selfishness. He did so at the Incarnation in unfolding the mystery of divinity as humanity. He did so at the Cross when the issues that tore apart the universe were resolved as they also tore apart the heart of God. He did so at the creation of the early church as the apostles revealed the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. He did so throughout Christian history in revealing what Christ was doing in the heavenly sanctuary as our Intercessor. He did so in 1844, revealing transparently the process of judgment to all the angels and the universe. And He does so every day, not only revealing His mind and heart in the large movements of biblical history but also in the small decisions of our lives.

Just as, in the time of Israel, God “went in the way before you to search out a place for you to pitch your tents, to show you the way you should go, in the fire by night and in the cloud by day” (Deuteronomy 1:33), He does the same for us today. Although questions of which route, what time, how long, and by what means are needed, they are mechanical in nature. They may grant temporary direction, only for the follower to ask again later. The experience of the revelation of God’s will must be embraced and reflected upon. He who has granted direction in the past will also grant direction in the future. Therefore the spiritual ramifications should be the absence of anxiety, worry, distress, and angst from our lives. Just as the ancient Israelites plodded step by step in the desert following the leading of the fiery/cloudy pillar, we too should read morning by morning in the Scripture, following the leading of the Holy Spirit.

``