---
title:  Be Who You Are
date:   20/05/2017
---

### SATAN, YOU LOST!

> <p></p>
> “For this very reason, make every effort to add to your faith goodness; and to goodness, knowledge; and to knowledge, self-control; and to self-control, perseverance; and to perseverance, godliness; and to godliness, mutual affection; and to mutual affection, love” (2 Pet. 1:5–7, NIV).

James 1:2–15

SATAN, LISTEN UP! In Jesus’ name, I rebuke you! Keep your hate, lies, and pride. Because, me, I’m better than that. I’m filled with God’s love inside.

Now you do have a lot to offer me, like cars, money, TV, and as much junk food as I want, which will then lead to obesity! You offer me a huge house, a big yard, a picket fence, and a room, filled with cash—dollars and cents. Well, guess what, loser? And that’s what you are ’cause you lost! I don’t want any of what you have to offer me, and I refuse at any cost! Go ahead, take my house, take my car, take my job. Take whatever you want, ’cause this saint here won’t sob.

**I don’t want any of what you have to offer me, and I refuse at any cost!**

See, whatever you have to give, I don’t want. I’m a just throw it back down! I don’t care what you think or the people who you send my way, Clown. I’m not here to please my neighbor! I’m not here to please him or her. I don’t care what people think. Not you, ma’am, and not you, sir. I don’t steal; I don’t kill; I will put God before you. I don’t drink; I don’t smoke; and I’m going to love God too. However, I do make mistakes. I do things that are wrong. Satan, you got some muscle, but God—He’s strong! It’s by God’s grace, God’s mercy, and God’s love alone. We are forgiven, and our mistakes are sewn. I will stand alone if I have to, but I want everyone to do what’s right. ’Cause God already has won the fight!

SATAN, YOU LOST!

Very few people in the history of this planet have had more faith than Peter from the Bible. The reason Peter’s faith was so strong was that very few people in the history of this planet have had to endure more trials and temptations than Peter. But, just like Peter, when you decide to follow Christ and walk the walk in faith, you’ll be able to stand proudly and say with confidence, SATAN, YOU LOST!

_Anthony Hackett, Laurel, Maryland, U.S.A._