---
title:  New Identity, New Life
date:   21/05/2017
---

### New Identity, New Life

2 Pet. 1:1–4

_**The Transformation (Matt. 26:33, 35, 75; Mark 14:29, 31, 72; John 18:27; 2 Pet. 1:1–4)**_

In 2 Peter 1:4, Peter delivers a beautiful encouragement to the reader, namely that God’s promises are precious, numerous, and available to the believer! Yes. Amen. Hallelujah. Further, these precious promises are given to us as we have a relationship with Him so that we can live godly lives! Yes. Amen. Hallelujah. These are lives that we want. Lives filled with great promises. Lives filled with divine favor. Lives filled with goodness. When you think about levels of goodness, it seems pretty hard to get higher than goodness from the One who created goodness.

**We no longer hear the boisterous, braggadocio Peter, dependent upon his own strength.**

The question is, how? How do we sign up for and engage in these lives? In the first verse of the chapter, Peter unwittingly gives us the answer; but if we are not careful, we will run right past the most profound statement in the entire chapter. 2 Peter 1:1 says, “Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ.” Peter opens the letter with a selfdescription, and he identifies himself as a servant; not Peter the warrior who cut off the ear of the soldier who came to arrest Jesus; not Peter the cool guy who was too afraid of peer criticism and possibly persecution to own up to his affiliation with Jesus; not Peter the storm walker who was willing to step out of a boat into the middle of a storm to walk on water like Jesus. His self-description is—servant.

Peter has discovered the godly life, and it required a transformation of his self-image. He had to allow God to reform how he viewed himself and his place in the world. When Jesus predicted that Peter would deny him, Peter responded that even “ ‘if I have to die with You, I will not deny You!’ ” (Matt. 26:35, NKJV; Mark 14:31, NKJV). Unfortunately, Peter, like many of us, was naive about the source of his power. He is terribly embarrassed later because, just as Jesus predicted, Peter had disowned Jesus three times by the time the rooster crowed (Matt. 26:75; Mark 14:72; John 18:27). The goodness we desire in this life is not something that we naturally possess; it is a gift from God, a gift that we receive as our lives become entangled with His. It is God’s divine power that provides us with the ability to live godly lives. Peter desired to honor God with his life, but he was unable to do so through sheer willpower.

Thankfully, Peter learned from his failure; and by the time he wrote 2 Peter 1, we no longer hear the boisterous, braggadocio Peter, dependent upon his own strength to live a godly life. Instead we hear the servant sage who now knows that the only way to live a godly life is through divine power.

_**The Sharing (Isa. 43:10, 11)**_

Experiencing even a glimpse of the godly life and a reformed and refreshed identity in Christ puts us in an awesome place to now share our experience with others. “ ‘You are my witnesses,’ declares the Lord, / ‘and my servant whom I have chosen, / so that you may know and believe me / and understand that I am he. / . . . I, even I, am the Lord, / and apart from me there is no savior’ ” (Isa. 43:10, 11, NIV). God delights in displaying His transforming power through the witness of His people. As we noted above, Peter himself stands as an excellent example of not only the change that takes place within a born-again believer but also the power that God is able to exercise through that individual to save others. When our lives are entangled with Christ, we become ambassadors for the godly life.

_**The Rewards (2 Pet. 1:10, 11)**_

Peter gives us all something to anticipate: “Therefore, my brothers and sisters, make every effort to confirm your calling and election. For if you do these things, you will never stumble, and you will receive a rich welcome into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ” (2 Pet. 1:10, 11, NIV). The godly life does not end on this planet; it is promised for an eternity. The divine power that shapes our new identity is not relegated to this world. We will daily have communion for all of eternity with the One who demonstrated that He loves us most.

_**The Plan—for Peter and for Us (John 14:6; Acts 4:12)**_

“Jesus answered, ‘I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me’ ” (John 14:6, NIV). God has made every provision for our salvation. The foundation of our salvation rests in the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. “Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to mankind by which we must be saved” (Acts 4:12, NIV). The plan of salvation is comprehensive and complete, and we become beneficiaries of the plan as we put our total trust in the Creator of all and follow the example of Jesus Christ.

**REACT**

`1. How might God want to transform your identity?`
`2. Reflect on times when you may have failed spiritually. What did you learn about yourself? What did you learn about God? How might you use what you have learned to develop a stronger relationship with God?`

_David B. Franklin, Baltimore, Maryland, U.S.A._