---
title:  Starving in Abundance?
date:   22/05/2017
---

### Starving in Abundance?

2 Pet. 1:2–10

Have you ever been hungry? I mean really hungry, to the point where your stomach hurts and your own saliva feels like sand in your mouth? And then you see food, and your mouth begins to water in expectation, only to discover that delicious food was yours all along. Sometimes, as Christians, we desire to live godly lives on our own, completely ignoring that God has given us everything we need to overcome the enemy. In the Bible, who better than Peter to make this point clear to his readers?

**God has given us everything we need to overcome the enemy.**

Peter wanted his readers to get to know the One who had changed and satisfied his life. “His letters were the means of reviving the courage and strengthening the faith of those who were enduring trial and affliction, and of renewing to good works those who through manifold temptations were in danger of losing their hold upon God. These letters bear the impress of having been written by one in whom the sufferings of Christ and also His consolation has been made to abound; one whose entire being had been transformed by grace, and whose hope of eternal life was sure and steadfast.”1

As Peter did, with our lives we bear witness of what God can do in and through us if we believe. The trials we face today may not be physical, but they nevertheless deplete our trust that God cares and is concerned with our battle against sin. Our souls hunger for temporary relief from our fallen nature, and we forget that we are “a letter from Christ . . . written not with ink but with the spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone but on tablets of human hearts” (2 Cor. 3:3, NIV). Victory can be obtained only by completely submitting our lives “under the discipline of the Master Worker.”2 Remember that “trial is part of the education given in the school of Christ, to purify God’s children from the dross of earthliness. . . . Trials and obstacles are His chosen methods of discipline, and His appointed conditions of success.”3 Therefore, “walk by faith, not by sight” (2 Cor. 5:7). Stand on God’s promises today! Why would you go hungry when you can feast in victory by His grace?

**REACT**

`1. Have you, like Peter, brought your life into submission to Christ?`
`2. Ponder this: Are you starving for God’s grace when you face your daily trials? What can you do to change this?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Refl ecting Christ, p. 361.</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid.</sup>
<sup>3. Ibid., p. 362.</sup>

_Gladys S. Guerrero, Silver Spring, Maryland, U.S.A._