---
title:  The Victorious Life
date:   23/05/2017
---

### The Victorious Life

2 Pet. 1:1–4

2 Peter 1 is a beautiful snapshot of the victorious Christian life. Here Peter presents the secret to success in the Christian walk, and four important principles jump out. First, God has made abundant provision for our success and has withheld nothing pertinent for our salvation and growth “to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ” (Eph. 4:13, NKJV). “His divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness” (2 Pet. 1:3, NKJV). Our heavenly arsenal is amply supplied with “exceeding great and precious promises” (verse 4, NKJV).

**God has provided everything we need for success.**

Second, the “promised blessings”1 are bestowed to enable us to “be partakers of the divine nature” (verse 4, NKJV). Christ came to restore the divine image in the human soul that was lost when sin entered the world. As we continue to grow closer to Christ and our walk matures, we “are being transformed into his image with ever-increasing glory, which comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit” (2 Cor. 3:18, NIV). God’s promises are available to empower us to live lives of continuous, abiding victory in Christ.

The third principle highlighted is that victorious living comes through a deeper, personal knowledge of Christ (2 Pet. 1:3). The word used for “knowledge” is epignosis, and it “implies a fuller, more perfect knowledge that comes from contemplation of the object studied.”2 Finally, we learn that diligent human effort plays an important role in the Christian walk. God has provided everything we need for success, and it is only in His power that we obtain victory. However, we are required to exercise our will in cooperation with the Holy Spirit to obtain the precious virtues listed in verses 5–7. Some of the simple steps that we take include making a commitment to spend time in daily prayer and study of God’s Word. “We are to add our diligent pursuit of Christian virtues to the gifts God has already bestowed. Working along with God, the Christian is enabled to develop the sanctified life.”3

**REACT**

`How do we acknowledge and incorporate the role of diligent human effort in the Christian life without becoming legalistic or self-sufficient? (Consider Philippians 2:13.)`

<sup>1. The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 2nd ed. vol. 7, p. 596. The commentary explains that the word used for “promises” is epaggelmata and can be translated “promised blessings.”</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid., p. 596.</sup>
<sup>3. Ibid., p. 597.</sup>

_Cheryl Cathlin, Lynchburg, Virginia, U.S.A._