---
title:  Dying to Live
date:   24/05/2017
---

### Dying to Live

Gal. 2:20

It feels like just yesterday—the day I died. None of my friends from junior high school had chosen my high school. When second semester began, I met a new friend in general science class, and she introduced me to several new people. My high school experience changed in an instant. I hadn’t realized how alone I felt until I made friends. When one of those new friends asked me whether I was going to the skating rink uptown that night, I died.

**I chose to follow Christ even if it meant I’d become a social pariah.**

I told her it was my Sabbath, and I couldn’t. I didn’t know what to expect or how I would handle her questions, but I chose to die that day. I chose to follow Christ even if it meant I’d become a social pariah or that my new friendships would come to an end. I chose to follow Christ even if it meant I’d go back to the lonely high school experience I’d been having.

When we make the decision to be a believer, we don’t know that dying every day to follow Christ will be as hard as it is. We don’t know when there will be little moments that we must stand for Him, even though our reputation, our popularity, or a treasured relationship is on the line. Can we stand up and die for Christ then?

Here’s an acronym I use to help navigate my Christian walk: I DIE.

I: Investigate what it means to follow Christ. We need to be very familiar with God’s Word and what it means to follow Christ’s example.

D: Decide whether you will follow Christ. After weighing the cost, ask yourself, Is this person, place, or thing worth eternity?

I: Issue notice to your friends and loved ones. Tell those you love and care for about your choice. During those little moments, you can remind them that the decisions you make in daily situations are based on who you follow.

E: Emulate Christ’s behavior. This will require you to kill your own desires daily.

**REACT**

1. Find two moments during Christ’s ministry that He killed His own desires in order to do the will of God.
`2. Can you think of a recent situation in which you could have chosen to follow Christ, but instead you followed a friend or your own desires?`

_Shari Loveday, Bowie, Maryland, U.S.A._