---
title:  You Just Be You
date:   25/05/2017
---

### You Just Be You

1 Pet. 2:9; 3:3, 4

At about the age of five, I began to realize that my physical appearance was very different from my five siblings. They all had brown skin, eyes, and hair, but I had fair skin, blond hair, and green eyes. I hated the questions about my ethnicity, the teasing from my peers and strangers. I hated everything about looking different.

Whenever I complained to my mother about my appearance, she would assure me that God had made no mistake in choosing me to be me. She would share the words of Peter with me: “But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, God’s special possession, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light” (1 Pet. 2:9, NIV).

**Accept your flaws, because God already has.**

Once I became comfortable with my outward appearance, God began to show me the need to address my inward being. I started to accept that “your beauty should not come from outward adornment. . . . Rather, it should be that of your inner self, the unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is of great worth in God’s sight” (1 Pet. 3:3, 4, NIV). In this battle to accept myself, I began to realize that it was a ploy of the devil to get me so caught up in what I looked like on the outside that it would shift my focus from the truly important matters, like who I am and what I believe.

Today’s society supports the idea that our outward appearance is what matters most. TV and social media encourage us to be obsessed with our weight, the color of our hair, the whiteness of our teeth, the brands of clothes we wear, and so on. Unfortunately, very little attention is paid to working on our character.

The first step is to love yourself, embrace who God made you to be. You just be you. Once you love yourself as God loves you, then you begin to find purpose, and you are freed to love others and share the love that He has given you. You are not a mistake, no matter what you look like or if you’re quirky. Accept your flaws, because God already has.

**REACT**

`1. How do you balance embracing and maintaining your outward appearance while strengthening your inward being?`
`2. How do you accept your flaws? Are you Christlike? How do you view yourself as God views you?`

_Heather Martin, Birmingham, Alabama, U.S.A._