---
title:  Suffering With Christ
date:   26/05/2017
---

### Suffering With Christ

Col. 1:24; 1 Pet. 2:24

**CONCLUDE**

Peter’s words in 1 and 2 Peter show that he is concerned with helping the fledgling body of Christ to understand how to live a holy life. His writings are full of helpful instructions on everything from slave relationships to false teachers. But the heart of Peter’s message is a call to holy living based on the grace that God extended to us through the death of His Son. Holy living doesn’t mean the focus is on us. It’s a call to love one another deeply and to guard our hearts from things that would cause us to focus on ourselves instead of others.

**CONSIDER**

- Creating a bouquet of flowers tagged with the seven attributes found in 2 Peter 1:5–7. You could make paper flowers or paint or draw a picture of a vase with flowers. Make faith the vase. How is faith the foundation for these characteristics?
- Praying for those who truly share in Christ’s physical sufferings. Do some research about Christian persecution in areas controlled by terrorists or in countries still under the control of Communism.
- Bearing people’s burdens today by taking them a meal, doing their laundry, giving them a ride, or listening to them talk.
- Participating in an exercise such as walking, running, or bike riding. As you exercise, imagine what it would feel like to have broken your foot and still try to do this activity. If one part of the body suffers, the whole body suffers; and Christ, as the Head of the body, suffers too.
- Making a priority list. First, make a list of your top three values. Label them 1, 2, 3, in order. Then make a list of all of your daily activities. Now, put a 1, 2, or 3 next to each of your daily activities. How do these lists correlate? Are you spending most of your time on your most important priorities? If not, consider how you can make changes so that you achieve your priorities.
- CONNECT

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chap. 52, “Steadfast Unto the End.”</sup>
<sup>C. S. Lewis, The Problem of Pain (Macmillan, 1946), chap. 6, “Human Pain,” and chap. 7, “Human Pain, Continued.”</sup>

_Kris Coffin Stevenson, Reno, Nevada, U.S.A._