---
title:  Escape From the World’s Ways
date:   20/01/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death. . . . He who trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like foliage” (Prov. 11:4, 28, NKJV).

**Introduction**: Pss. 50:10; 119:11

**Stewardship — It’s More Than Money?**

When you think of the word stewardship, what images come to mind? If you are like me, the first thing that comes to mind is money. We often hear about how we are supposed to be stewards of our finances, but stewardship involves much more. According to Merriam-Webster’s online dictionary, the definition of stewardship is “the activity or job of protecting and being responsible for something.”<sup>*</sup> With that idea in mind, there are many things worth caring for and protecting.

The questions are: What is God’s character like, and how can we become good stewards of it?

When you spend time protecting what is valuable to you, it is a sign that you care deeply for that thing or person. Let us put stewardship in the context of our relationship with God. Psalm 50:10 says, “Because every animal of the forest is already mine. The cattle on a thousand hills are mine” (NCV). God already owns everything and will give it to us as He deems best. Our job is to take care of everything He gives us. In Genesis, we are told that we are created in the image of God. Since we are created in the image of God, we are meant to display the character of God. Among all of the things that we are to be stewards of, the most important thing is being good stewards of the character of God.

When I stopped and thought about this important concept, Psalm 119:11 came to mind. It says, “I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you” (NIV). In order for me to be a good steward of God’s character, I actually have to understand what God’s character encompasses. In order to accomplish this, I have to spend time in God’s Word, because that is where His character is revealed. We have been called to display God’s true character against the devil’s attempts to discredit it, which is why it is so important to understand how we are called to represent His character and what His character is actually like. If we are made in the image of God, then God’s character is on display for all to see. Therefore, the questions are: What is God’s character like, and how can we become good stewards of it? It is true that we are to be good stewards of our time and money, but God is asking us to be stewards of more than just material things, so let us explore, this week, how we are to be good stewards of God’s character in all aspects of life.

<sup>* Merriam-Webster, s.v. “stewardship,” accessed October 17, 2016, http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/stewardship.</sup>

_Brittni James, Meridian, Mississippi, USA_