---
title:  Downsizing
date:   21/01/2018
---

**Evidence**: James 1:21

There is a movement gaining popularity in the United States called the tiny house movement. People that become part of this sell their old houses and either build or buy a new house that is much smaller than their previous one. Some of these “tiny houses” are less than 700 square feet, for a family of four. In order to make the change, the family must either sell, donate, or toss a large amount of their belongings. For what they retain, the new house necessitates creative uses of space to make the most of what is there.

Imagine the peace of mind and freedom that come when you are tackling so much less of the nonessentials.

This change accomplishes two main things. First, the members of the family are brought much closer together, and second, they are limited in their material belongings. Because of this, these families are finding that they spend more time together and have less of a desire to buy the latest and greatest products, such as the newest TV screens, furniture, and clothing. The families who stick with the change find that they are happier than when they lived in the large homes.

Think about it for a minute. What would it be like to vacuum a 2,000-square-foot house compared to a 700-square-foot house? When you slice it up into pieces of daily life, you’re carving out a lot more time to do what is really important. This also means that the stress you experience over tending to the house and everything in it, as well as keeping up with trends, is mostly gone. Imagine the peace of mind and freedom that come when you are tackling so much less of the nonessentials.

As stewards of God’s world, we need to follow this pattern. In putting aside a desire for material gain, we free ourselves to spend more time with Him and one another. James 1:21 says, “Therefore lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls” (NKJV). Sometimes, in striving for material success, we lose sight of the end goal. It is far more important to know God and serve Him than to achieve worldly luxury and comfort.

**React**

`1. How can you downsize your life? What nonessentials are taking up too much of your time and energy?`

`2. If you could taste the freedom that comes from being unburdened from things that don’t matter—what would it taste like? How hungry are you for it?`

_Shawn Hanson, Meridian, Mississippi, USA_