---
title:  Jailbreak!
date:   22/01/2018
---

**Logos**: Prov. 24:13, 14; Ezek. 36:26, 27; Matt. 7:7–11; Mark 11:24; John 20:31; 1 Cor. 3:18–20; Gal. 3:28; Col. 3:2; 2 Tim. 3:16

As Christians, we are to be different from those in the world. Where others are self-serving, we should be self-sacrificing. Where the world is focused on material gain, we are to be focused on the things of God and what is to come. However, this goes directly against the sinful human condition. In His mercy and grace, God has given us the way to escape and leave the cagelike customs of the world behind.

Only by the Holy Spirit is escape from the world’s cage possible.

**Look Up** (Gal. 3:28; Col. 3:2)

Throughout history, humanity has found numerous methods of division, sequestering different groups away in intolerant camps, constantly clashing and vying for superiority. This mentality is drawn from a selfish desire to be better than others as well as a desire to shift blame to others. This tendency stems directly from the fall of humanity in Eden and even the original fall of Lucifer. Satan desired greater power and authority and accused God of being a tyrant. Eve was tempted by the thought of becoming like God by eating the fruit, and both she and Adam attempted to pass the blame of their sin.

God desires His people to be unified. Only by spending time with Him is this possible—by letting His nature overcome the sinful human bent toward division. As disciples of Christ, we are to be like Him. As we spend time and build a relationship with Jesus, His power changes us. As we are linked to Him, there is no need for division, for we “are all one in Christ Jesus” (Gal. 3:28, NKJV). As we look up to Him, we look “on things above, not on things on the earth” (Col. 3:2, NKJV).

**Student Handbook** (John 20:31; 2 Tim. 3:16)

Under the influence of sin, deception has become a far too commonplace event to transpire. Satan deceived a number of the angels and tricked Eve into eating the forbidden fruit. Governments and rulers have attempted to deceive their citizens, and today there are entire systems and programs for such. The euphemism of propaganda covers the stark truth that such methods are an attempt to manipulate. Satan uses this to discredit God and weaken faith and hope.

To give us a way out, God gave us His Written Word. Paul states in 2 Timothy 3:16 that “all Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work” (NKJV). We are taught the truth about God, that we “may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in His name” (John 20:31, NKJV). God’s Word neuters Satan’s deceptions.

**Stress Relief** (Matt. 7:7–11; Mark 11:24)

Throughout history, Satan has made every effort to break faith in God. The ultimate point he tries to prove is that God is not caring and abuses the authority He possesses. In the Bible, this is disproven. Jesus stated that God is love and that He is willing and desiring to give. As a perfect God of love, His desire is far stronger than that of any human, ever. All that is needed is a prayer of faith, allowing Him to show His true character (Matt. 7:11; Mark 11:24). Jesus showed humanity that Satan was wrong, love is the best way, and all are given an invitation to return to Him.

When the temptation to doubt comes along, prayer is the most powerful defense. Prayer brings a peace of mind, laying aside anxiety and anger. It connects the believer to Divinity, restoring confidence and faith. All the world is set up to counter innumerable crimes, insults, and failures, but through a life of prayer, that mind-set need not hinder the true believer and follower of Christ.

**Freedom of Choice** (Prov. 24:13, 14; 1 Cor. 3:18–20)

Nearly everyone has seen a commercial of some kind, a flashy, eyecatching piece, trying to woo customers into purchasing what is being promoted. However, these commercials rarely ever tell the full story. The best aspects are highlighted, while the drawbacks are downplayed. It is the same with much of society today. There is always the perceived need to put on a mask so that others see only what is desirable. People who have learned how to play this game are considered wise.

This is not God’s way. The supposed wisdom of mankind really isn’t. “The wisdom of this world is foolishness in God’s sight” (1 Cor. 3:19, NIV). When a believer trusts in His wisdom, all the masks and illusions of sin are shown for what they are. Instead of being caught up in the whirlwind of supposed choices in this world, the believer will see that these are devoid of any real value. The believer will have the freedom to choose what really matters.

**In His Strength** (Ezek. 36:26, 27)

Regardless of how much one tries, it is impossible to follow God. All that is required in Scripture, all that is expected of someone truly converted, is beyond reach—human reach. In God alone is the strength to be like Him. Being with Jesus daily, understanding the Bible, praying with faith, and having divine wisdom will happen only through Him. “I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you; I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I will put My Spirit within you and cause you to walk in My statutes, and you will keep My judgments and do them” (Ezek. 36:26, 27, NKJV). Only by the Holy Spirit is escape from the world’s cage possible.

**React**

`1. From what part of this broken world do you need to escape?`

`2. How can you avoid trying to escape on your own?`

`3. Do you trust that God will bring you to true freedom?`

_Michael Leukert, Meridian, Mississippi, USA_