---
title:  Really, Really Free!
date:   23/01/2018
---

**Testimony**: John 8:36

We bought our first car in college. It came with fresh air (broken window) and an audible balance notification system (bearings needed to be replaced). Two poor, newlywed college students launched themselves into the ownership, care, and maintenance of a bargain used car.

The car had only a few good years left in it, and somehow God put us in a place where obtaining our next mode of transportation would be possible. It was easy to see that if God wasn’t involved, we wouldn’t be driving a vehicle that had our names on the title. Truly God owns it all. We are stewards, entrusted with His resources. When we forget this truth, we become trapped in materialism and lose our freedom.

Truly God owns it all.

“The Lord calls upon those who are in positions of trust, those to whom He has entrusted His precious gifts, to use their talents of intellect and means in His service. Our workers should present before these men a plain statement of our plan of labor, telling them what we need in order to help the poor and needy and to establish this work on a firm basis. Some of these will be impressed by the Holy Spirit to invest the Lord’s means in a way that will advance His cause.”1 “By this system of benevolence the Lord sought to teach Israel that in everything He must be first. Thus they were reminded that God was the proprietor of their fields, their flocks, and their herds; that it was He who sent them the sunshine and the rain that developed and ripened the harvest. Everything that they possessed was His; they were but the stewards of His goods.”2

**React**

`1. Does the concept that you can’t be the proprietor and the steward bring a sense of relief—understanding that the burden is truly God’s—or does it leave you wishing that some of your possessions were exempt from this principle?`

`2. Are there any of your “temporal effects” that you’ve been keeping back from God, the rightful owner? What would it take to surrender them to His use?`

<sup>Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, p. 112.</sup>
<sup>Ellen G. White, Acts of the Apostles, p. 337.</sup>

_Sharon Leukert, Meridian, Mississippi, USA_