---
title:  How May I Help You?
date:   24/01/2018
---

**How-to**: Matt. 19:26; 20:27, 28; Rom. 14:12

Within the past couple of years, I had to discard a blue T-shirt. It wasn’t torn or stained. It wasn’t too big or small. The issue is that it was exactly Walmart blue. It seemed that nearly every time I went shopping there, someone would start asking me questions as if I had “How May I Help You?” printed on the back. As part of being a good steward of the financial resources God has provided for my family, I try to save money by shopping at lower-cost stores, but I began to think it might be to an extreme when I could show people what they were looking for because I’d been there so often.

There should be an unconscious question in our minds of “How may I help you?”

It got me thinking, though, Isn’t that what stewardship is all about? The “world” would have us say, “How can I help myself? How can I get the most?” Leaving that behind frees us to live a practical daily life of “How can I help you know my Jesus?” There should be an unconscious question in our minds of “How may I help you?”

Invest time in developing healthy relationships. Time is one of the most valuable resources that you have, but it is finite. It is far too easy to be trapped into making everything about us. Find the individuals whose lives you can impact in the most positive way and put your focus there.

Analyze your overall health habits based on this question. When any aspect of our heath—mental, physical, or emotional—is out of balance, we will be unable to be of the same use for Jesus to bless those around us. Begin to view this area as a resource for God and not just something you work on for yourself. This will become even more vital, if you get married and start a family. Make financial decisions based on who you can bless. The early members of the Seventh-day Adventist movement lived lives that most of us can’t imagine. They were extremely frugal, not so that they could add to their savings but so that they could put as much funds as possible into hastening the return of Jesus. Do we have the same passion? What do our spending habits say?

Remember that the God we serve is a God with no limits. Too often we are not willing to give all our resources to His management because we believe the source is finite. See Him as He is—the one through whom “all things are possible” (Matt. 19:26, NKJV).

**React**

`In what area(s) of your life has God convicted you that you need Him to help you develop better stewardship?`

_Karl Leukert, Meridian, Mississippi, USA_