---
title:  Stewardship Requires Faith!
date:   25/01/2018
---

**Opinion**: Heb. 11:1–6

As Christians, we are encouraged to have faith and practice it. We are told that if we have faith the size of a mustard seed, it can move mountains. However, we seldom consider that we ourselves have anything to do with the main scene. We live our lives day to day, worrying over something that may be small or large, and forget what it is to have faith—faith like Abraham, Solomon, Isaac, and others had. We rarely take into account that we could have faith like that as well.

Whether your mountain is physical or metaphorical, depending on perspective, the solution is the same: faith.

We learn in Sabbath School what faith is and how we need it, but we don’t usually focus on how to use it. It’s always been defined as something that we need, but we’re never too sure when to use it. The definition of faith is believing in something that one cannot see. However, I think it goes beyond that. It’s believing that even though we can’t see Jesus, or the future that we are promised if we have faith, we can move mountains. Whether your mountain is physical or metaphorical, depending on perspective, the solution is the same: faith. Faith is what gives us the basis of our belief in the Cross, salvation, and Jesus Himself. Faith lets us know that although we cannot see the unseen, we can feel what our faith makes us feel. We feel hope. We see the opportunities open and our prayers answered. We see the lives of family and friends improved. We see our communities grow and our churches flourish. When faith comes into our perspective, things get better. Faith is what makes us believe that we are indeed free and redeemed and that things are not impossible with God.

By faith we know that the universe was created and that all creatures belong to God. By faith we know that we are supposed to care for the earth and the creatures in it. Stewardship requires faith. By faith we are approved by God. The unseen is realized by our faith, and our faith makes our belief more real. Faith is what brings us closer to God. When we seek Him with faith and belief, we know that we are redeemed. Faith is the bridge between us and heaven.

**React**

`1. How can you have more faith in your life?`

`2. Why is faith so important in the Bible?`

_Cherokee Norvell, Jefferson, Texas, USA_