---
title:  Confirm That You Aren’t Conformed
date:   26/01/2018
---

**Exploration**: Prov. 11:4, 28

**Conclude**

A key way to remain in alignment with Christ and not be conformed to the world is to steward the resources that we have been given. One of those major resources is our time; time is one gift that, once spent, can never be brought back or renewed. It is extremely important that we learn to steward our time. The way that we use our time shows what we value, the depth of our relationship with God, and our desire to reflect His character. Have a look at your calendar and see where the majority of your time is going.

**Consider**

- Prayerfully what you should remove from your schedule so that you have more time for your priorities.
- Making a collage that represents God’s character.
- Planning a memorable day so that you can steward an important relationship in your life.
- Finding out how much time you are spending in a variety of categories per day and then making a graph that represents it—then make another graph that represents how you’d like to be spending your time.
- Researching how you can serve others through different opportunities in your city.
- Tracking your spending and redoing your budget so that you’re able to give more away.
- Reading a book on time management.

**Connect**

1. Psalms 34:1; 50:10; 119:11.
2. Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship.
3. Tommy Barnett, The Power of a Half Hour: Take Back Your Life Thirty Minutes at a Time.

_Michelle Solheiro, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada_