---
title:  Two Small Coins
date:   01/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 12:41–44. How much did the widow give? What did Jesus say about her small offering?`

The Jerusalem temple was a very beautiful building. Many people brought offerings to the temple. There were 13 offering boxes in the Court of Women near the temple. The Court of Women was a space near the temple where women were allowed to enter. Jesus was sitting in the Court of Women when He saw a widow approach one of the offering boxes. She put in two “lepta.” Lepta are small coins that aren’t worth very much. A worker in those days earned a coin named a denarius each day. The widow’s offering was about a 1/32 part of a denarius. So, the widow’s offering was very small.

The widow’s offering touches Jesus’ heart. Many rich people put large sums of money in the offering boxes. Jesus doesn’t praise their gifts as they put them in. But Jesus praises the widow’s offering. Jesus says that the widow gave more than everyone else. How did she do that? Jesus says that everyone else gave an offering from their leftover money. But the widow gave all that she owned. The other givers had much left after they gave. But the widow gave everything she had to live on. So, her gift was really a rich one, even if it wasn’t worth very much money.

This story teaches us an important lesson about managing everything God gives us. We don’t give because our leaders are good. The leadership of the temple in Jesus’ day was evil. Just look at Caiaphas and Annas. These men were some of the worst leaders in the history of Israel. Jesus knew it, too. But Jesus didn’t say that people should stop giving offerings because of these evil men.

Yes, leaders are responsible for using God’s money to honor Him. But if they do not, we must continue to support God’s work on this earth with our offerings. God will bless our giving, just as He blessed this widow.

What if we don’t give our money to the church because of our leaders’ bad behavior? Then we show that the reason for our giving is about their behavior and not about thanking God. Sometimes when our leaders make mistakes, we may not want to give our tithes and offerings to the church. Tithe is 10% of all the money we get. But God always wants us to give our tithes and offerings to the church. That is His plan.