---
title:  Not One Stone Left on Top of Another Stone
date:   02/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 13:1–13. How do Jesus’ followers feel when Jesus tells them about what will happen to the temple? What does Jesus’ answer teach us about the end times?`

As we said yesterday, the temple was a beautiful building. Josephus, a Jewish history writer in the time of Paul, says that the Royal Walkway on the south side of the temple had 162 very tall posts. Each post was as big and wide as three men standing in a circle, hand in hand, with their arms reaching around the post. (Read Antiquities, 15.11.5, §§413–414.) Jesus says that the whole temple will be thrown down. The followers of Jesus thought that if the temple will be destroyed, then the earth will end, too.

“Jesus looked at the beautiful temple. What were His thoughts? His own people rejected Him! Yes, the temple was lovely, but Jesus was very sad. He said, ‘I see everything that will happen. The buildings are wonderful. You think that no one can destroy these walls. But listen to My words. The day will come when “All these stones will be thrown down. Not one will be left standing on another [stone]” ’ Mark 13:2, NLV.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 627, adapted.

In Mark 13:4, a small group, Peter, James, John, and Andrew, ask Jesus when the temple will be destroyed. They also want to know what the sign will be that shows these things are about to happen.

In Mark 13:5–13, Jesus warns His followers about what will happen when they do God’s work after He goes back to heaven. The followers will help God start and grow His church on earth. Their job won’t be easy.

God’s enemies will attack His followers and hurt them. Some of the followers will be killed for their faith. Jesus tells Peter, James, John, and Andrew that this time is not now but is coming soon. Jesus also tells His followers not to be tricked when bad things start to happen. Also, Jesus will send the Holy Spirit to help them. The Spirit will give them the words to say at the right time, even when family and friends won’t support them.

Jesus doesn’t want His followers, then or now, to fear the future. We must watch and wait on the Lord. God’s Spirit will protect us and lead us in times of trouble that are coming in the future.