---
title:  The Man-made God that Stands in the House Of God
date:   03/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 13:14–18. What hint does Jesus give us to help us understand what “the horrible [awful] thing that destroys” is [Mark 13:14, ICB]? Another name for this horrible thing is the “sinful man-made god standing in the house of God where it has no right [power] to stand” [NLV].`

In Mark 13:14, Jesus comes to the important part of His message. He talks about the fall of Jerusalem. Jesus also talks about the “the horrible [awful] thing that destroys” [Mark 13:14, ICB]. These words are from the Book of Daniel (read Daniel 9:27; Daniel 11:31; Daniel 12:11; and Daniel 8:13). The Lord says the reader should understand what these words mean. So, with these words, Jesus helps His followers to see that they need to read the Book of Daniel to understand what He says.

`Read Daniel 9:26, 27. Who is “the chosen one” (Daniel 9:26, ERV)? And who is “the future leader” (verse 26)?`

The name “the chosen one” in Daniel 9:26 (ERV) comes from the Hebrew word “māšiaḥ.” In English, this word is written as “Messiah,” or the “Chosen One.” A careful study of Daniel 9:24–27 shows us that the Chosen One is Jesus.

But who, then, is “the future leader” who destroys Jerusalem? Titus, a Roman general, destroyed the city. So, he must be “the future leader” that we read about in Daniel 9:26, 27. The future leader and the Chosen One are connected. Why? Because when the Jews killed Jesus, God judged them. God allowed the Romans to destroy the city as punishment for killing His Son.

What is “the horrible [awful] thing that destroys” [Mark 13:14, ICB]? As we already said, another name for this horrible thing is the “sinful man-made god standing in the house of God where it has no right [power] to stand” [NLV]. Many Bible thinkers think “the horrible thing” is Antiochus Epiphanes. Antiochus made the temple dirty in 167 b.c. But that idea doesn’t work. Jesus says “the horrible thing” happens after His own time here. So, it can’t mean something that happened 200 years before His work on earth. “The horrible thing” must be the Roman army who enters the land of Israel in the a.d. 60s. The army was a warning to Christians to leave the city, which they did.