---
title:  The Terrible Time of Trouble
date:   04/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 13:19. What does this verse mean?`

As we learned yesterday, Mark 13:14 talks about “the horrible [awful] thing that destroys” [Mark 13:14, ICB]. In Mark 13:19, Jesus starts preaching about a new topic. Jesus starts to talk about the horrible time of trouble in the future. This time will be the worst time of trouble in human history.

Just as Mark 13:14 helps us remember Daniel 9, Mark 13:19–23 talks about the things that Daniel wrote about in Daniel 7 and 8. In these two chapters, the little-horn power hurts the people of God “for three and one-half years” (Daniel 7:25, ERV) or 1,260 days. The special message about time is the same as 1,260 real years (Numbers 14:34; Ezekiel 4:6). This time started in a.d. 538 and ended in a.d. 1798. In 1798, Napoleon sent his general to take the pope prisoner. During the 1,260 years, the little-horn power hurt and killed anyone who didn’t agree with the way it controlled governments or the church.

`Read about the terrible time of trouble in Mark 13:20–23. What hope does God offer His people during this time? What warning does God give to His people when this time is about to end?`

Mark 13:20 says that the time will be cut short for God’s people. History shows that the attacks ended sometime after the Protestant religion started in Europe. So, the days of trouble were shortened, just as Jesus promised. More and more people joined the Protestant churches. The little horn’s power grew weak. But the little-horn power would become powerful again, as we read in Revelation 13.

In Mark 13:21–23, Jesus warns about another danger in the end times: false prophets or messengers and false saviors. These false prophets and false saviors will trick many people before Jesus comes back. Jesus warns His followers to be careful of them.

`When Jesus gave His followers this warning about false saviors, the Christian religion was very new. 2,000 years later, we see how much Jesus’ words have come true. How should His warning help us trust more in the Bible?`