---
title:  The Son of Man Will Come Back!
date:   05/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 13:24–32. What important happening in the future do these verses talk about?`

Mark 13:24–32 talks about the Second Coming of Jesus. Before Jesus comes back, there will be signs in the sun, moon, and stars that show He is coming soon. The New Testament is filled with messages about this wonderful time. In 1 Corinthians 15, Paul talks about the resurrection. The resurrection is the time when God will wake people up from the dead at the Second Coming. Paul talks about the Second Coming in 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18. In these verses, Paul also talks about Christians who wake up from the dead when Jesus comes back.

Peter talks about the Second Coming in 2 Peter 3:3–13. Peter explains that the Lord doesn’t delay His promise to come back. The Lord waits because He wants everyone to confess their sins and accept His forgiveness. Revelation also talks about Jesus’ coming (Revelation 1:7; Revelation 6:12–17; Revelation 14:14–20; and Revelation 19:11–21). The New Testament teaches us that the Second Coming is real. Jesus will come in person. Everyone on earth will see Him and hear Him when He comes.

What does Jesus mean when He says, “ ‘All these things will happen while some of the people of [from] this time are still [continue to be] living’ ” (Mark 13:30, ERV)? Also, what does Jesus mean when He says, “ ‘No one knows when that day or time will be’ ” (Mark 13:32, ERV)? These words have confused many people today because Jesus said these words to people who died a long time ago.

How do we explain these two verses? To answer this question, let’s look at three different words Jesus uses in the verses. In Mark 13:30, Jesus uses the word “some,” as in “some of the people of [from] this time.” Jesus also uses the word “that” when He says, “that day or time.” In Mark 13, Mark uses the word “this” in verses 1–13. (These verses talk about what will happen in Jerusalem before it is destroyed). So, what do these three words tell us?

These words tell us that “some of the people of this time” may mean the people living during Jesus’ day, who saw the Romans destroy Jerusalem. Mark 13:32 talks about the Second Coming, which is in the future and far away from Jesus’ time. So, Mark, in verse 32, uses the word “that” to talk about things that will happen in the faraway future.