---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   06/09/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “On the Mount of Olives,” in _The Desire of Ages_, pages 627–636.

“We don’t know the day when Jesus will come back. So, we must watch and wait for Him. ‘Those servants will be blessed when their master comes home, because he sees that his servants are ready and waiting for him.’ Luke 12:37 [ICB]. Jesus’ followers who wait for the Lord’s coming do not sit around and do nothing while they wait. Jesus’ coming should fill our hearts with respect for Him. We should honor and obey His commandments. We should fear His work as Judge against sin. We must work hard to help people understand that they will sin if they reject God’s offer of mercy. We must watch and wait for the Lord. We must make our hearts and minds clean from sin. We make our hearts and minds clean when we obey Bible truth. We must watch carefully and work hard for the Lord. Our love for God will grow because we know Jesus is about to come back. So, we will work harder to save other people. The ones who do these things are the loyal and wise servants of God who ‘give the other servants their food at the right time.’ Luke 12:42 [ERV]. These loyal servants announce to other people the Bible truth that is needed for their time. In the same way, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, and Moses announced the special truth for their times. Jesus’ loyal servants living now will give the special warning for their time, too.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 634, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read again the story about the widow who gave all that she had (Mark 12:41–44). What does it mean for us today to give in this way?`

`Why didn’t God stop the attacks on His church in the past 2,000 years? How does the worldwide war between God and Satan help us to answer this question?`

`What are the signs of Jesus’ coming? Which ones convince you the most that Jesus is coming back?`

`When we die, we sleep until Jesus comes back. People close their eyes, then what’s the next thing they know? They see Jesus. How does this Bible truth help us understand that Jesus’ coming is always near?`