---
title:  When We Give In To Sin
date:   24/05/2026
---

`Read about the times when Samson sinned in Judges 14 and Judges 16:1, 4, 16, 17. God chose Samson to serve Him for a special reason. But Samson chose to sin while he served God. How did Samson’s story end? What does his sad story teach us?`

The worldwide war between God and Satan is real. We are all part of it. The war that started in heaven is now fought in each of our lives.

Jesus is coming soon. Satan knows that he doesn’t have much time left. So, he is going to try to do everything he can to keep us from having a close relationship with God. Maybe you are doing something that isn’t wrong or bad: work, TV, internet, shopping, sports, or food. But you spend so much time doing it. So, you don’t have much time left for God and other people. Satan knows that we are weak. He knows the things that will keep us from spending time with God. We should remember to seek God first (Matthew 6:33) before we start our day.

Jesus understands that we are sinners. But Jesus also warns us not to be careless in our relationship with Him (Revelation 2:1–7; Revelation 3:14–22). Yes, Jesus is God. But He also became a human. So, Jesus felt tired, just as we do (John 4:6). Jesus had a very busy life, just as we do. But He always made time to pray to His Father (Luke 5:16; Luke 6:12; Mark 1:35; Matthew 14:23). Jesus knew that time with His Father was the best thing He could do to get strength to fight against Satan and sin. The best thing we can do to win the fight against Satan and sin is to spend time in prayer with God.

Samson sinned because he depended on his own strength to fight against sin. Every day, we fight against sin. Satan tries to make us weak. He tries to destroy our relationship with God. When we sin, we feel guilty. We stop feeling close to God in our hearts. Satan works hard to get control of our lives. But remember: our faith will help us stand strong against Satan. Our faith grows strong when we read and obey the Bible.

`What sins and problems are you fighting against right now in your life? How can God’s Word, the Bible, help you right now?`