---
title:  Warnings
date:   25/05/2026
---

The Bible is filled with many messages that warn us against things that hurt our relationship with God. These things keep us from growing in Jesus. Below are some of these warnings from Paul and Jesus:

**Paul: “So watch yourself! The person who thinks he can stand against sin had better watch that he does not fall into sin” (1 Corinthians 10:12, NLV).** Remember Samson. He trusted in his own strength. Don’t do what Samson did. Trust in God.

**Jesus: “ ‘When you give something to a poor person, do not tell anyone [brag] about it. The hypocrites [people who pretend to be religious] do this [brag] in their meeting places. They also do it [brag] in the busy streets of the town. They do this so that other people will praise them’ ” (Matthew 6:2, EASY).** Stop bragging about all the wonderful things you do! Copy Jesus: empty your heart of all pride.

**Jesus: “ ‘But what I tell you is this [rule]: A man may look at a woman who is not his wife. And he may want to have sex with her. In his thoughts, he has had sex with her, so he has done a wrong thing. If your right eye leads you to do wrong things, then you should take it out [remove it]’ ” (Matthew 5:28, 29, EASY).** Do anything to remove wrong or evil thoughts. They will keep you from having a close relationship with God.

**Jesus: “ ‘Do not judge other people. Then you will not be judged. You will be judged in the same way you judge others’ ” (Matthew 7:1, 2, NIrV).** Stop judging other people. God is Judge, not you (1 Corinthians 4:5).

**Jesus: “ ‘But I tell you, love your enemies. Pray for those who hurt you’ ” (Matthew 5:44, ICB).** Stop hating your enemies. When you feel hate for the people who hurt you, your hate separates you from God. Start to pray for your enemies. Wait and see how prayer changes your relationship with God and other people.

**Jesus: “ ‘Anyone who is angry with his brother without having a good reason, will be judged in court’ ” (Matthew 5:22, WE).** Maybe you excuse your bad behavior when you yell at your friends and family. What does your anger do to your relationship with God? With your friends? With family?

`In Mark 9:42–48, Jesus talks about when our hands, feet, and eyes cause us to sin. What does His warning tell us about sin? Are you obeying the warning?`