---
title:  The Law
date:   26/05/2026
---

`How would you explain sin to a non-Christian? What does the Bible say that sin is? Read Romans 3:20 and 1 John 3:4 for the answers.`

Sin is breaking God’s law (1 John 3:4). We are sinners (Psalm 51:5; Jeremiah 17:9). The law shows us what sin really is. The law helps us to understand what is really in our hearts. The law helps us to want to change our lives for the better. At the same time, the law tells us about God’s love. The law also tells us what is important to Him.

God wrote the Ten Commandments (Exodus 20:3–17) with His finger. Jesus tells us that the Ten Commandments are important: “ ‘ “Love the Lord, your God completely. Love him with all your mind and with all your strength. Love him in everything that you think and you do.” The second most important rule is this: “You should love other people as much as you love yourself.” No other rules are as important as these two’ ” (Mark 12:30, 31, EASY). Jesus adds, “ ‘All God’s Laws that Moses gave us come from these two rules. All the things that the prophets [God’s special messengers] wrote also come from them’ ” (Matthew 22:40, EASY).

God’s words to the Israelites at Mount Sinai are also for us today (Hebrews 1:1, 2). God’s words tell us that the law is all about relationships. God gave us the law to protect our relationship with Him and other people. But Satan causes people to misunderstand God’s law. So, some people think that the law is the same as a heavy load. They don’t understand that the law is about love and freedom. The Bible tells us, “We show that we love God when we obey his laws. His laws are not hard to obey” (1 John 5:3, WE).

1. How precious and important is God’s Word, the Bible, and His law to me? Circle the number below that best matches your answer: 1 (not very precious); 2 (maybe a little precious); 3 (precious and important); 4 (very precious and important); 5 (the most precious and important thing in life to me).
2. Do I think God’s law makes me a slave to good behavior? Or does God’s law make me strong and free?
3. What would happen if love for God and other people was the most important part of my life? How would my church and my relationships change and grow?

` `