---
title:  The Law And The Good News
date:   27/05/2026
---

Jesus gave a short, powerful explanation about His relationship to the law.

`In Matthew 5:17, 18, what does Jesus say about the law?`

God’s law tells us about His love. His law also shows us what is important to Him. God gave us His law to protect our relationships with Him and other people. We’ve all suffered because of sin, right? God gave us His law to help us live and grow in Him.

The law is all about the love of Jesus. Jesus said, “ ‘If you love me, obey my commands’ ” (John 14:15, NIrV). When we love Jesus with all our hearts, we will want to keep His law. When we understand His law, we will love Jesus more. More important, the best way to grow our love for God is to think about Jesus dying for us on the cross.

For sure, the Good News is connected closely with the law. We always must remember that the law can’t save us. The law doesn’t forgive us. God doesn’t accept us because of the law. We need Jesus and His death on the cross for that. The law shows us why we need forgiveness. The law also helps us understand why we need Jesus to be our Substitute. The Good News about Jesus helps us to understand the law. The Good News is that Jesus died for our sins. He saves us with His obedience. He gives us His obedience as a gift. We get this gift when we have faith in Him.

`We believe that we should keep the law. But we also believe that the law can’t save us. Read the following verses: Romans 3:28; Romans 4:13–16; Galatians 2:16; Galatians 3:13; and Philippians 3:9. How do these ­verses help us to understand Bible truth about the law?`