---
title:  Knowing And Doing
date:   28/05/2026
---

In the Sermon on the Mountain, Jesus talks a lot about relationships: with Him and with other people. Jesus says something important at the end of His message: “ ‘Some people say to me, “Master, Master!” But not all of them will come into the kingdom of heaven. Only the people who obey God, my Father in heaven, will come in. They do what he wants them to do’ ” (Matthew 7:21, EASY).

Jesus explains that some people will know **about** Him. But they will not really **know Him**. Of course, knowledge is important. The Bible tells us that God’s people can be destroyed because they don’t know God. God’s people also can be destroyed when they reject their knowledge of Him (Hosea 4:1, 6, 10). So, Bible truth is very important. But Bible truth must change us. Bible truth also must bring us close to God in our hearts. If Bible truth doesn’t do these things, then the knowledge isn’t useful.

Jesus said, “ ‘What does it mean for people to live with you for ever? It means that they know you, the one [the Father] who is the only true God. They also know me, Jesus Christ, the one [the Son] that you have sent’ ” (John 17:3, EASY). Jesus told us what we must do if we want to enter heaven. We must do everything that God wants us to do. We also must **know** God. We can’t do what God wants if we don’t know Him. If your children say that they love you, they will do what you want, right? (At least, most of the time!) Their actions and obedience show that they love and respect you very much. In the same way, when we love God, we’ll want to do what He expects us to do. We know there is nothing better for us to do! Our obedience to God comes from our love for Him. Both our obedience and love show the healthy and loving relationship we have with God.

`How does Jesus end His Sermon on the Mountain? Read Matthew 7:24–29 for the answer.`

Jesus’ messages can change our lives for the better. But first, our hearts must be open to Him. Then we can learn His perfect plan for our lives and follow it.

The secret to our having a close relationship with God is in the Bible. God offers this relationship to everyone. We must choose to accept it with faith. Then God will give us Jesus’ holy life in exchange for our sins. God also will give us the strength to live a holy life in Jesus.