---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   29/05/2026
---

Satan’s war with God was about His law. So, we should not be surprised that many people misunderstand the topic of the law.

Some people in Jesus’ day thought that He came to destroy the law. But that idea was false. Jesus explained the law and God’s beautiful love. Jesus came to keep the law and its promises (Matthew 5:17, 18). Jesus’ obedience to the law helped us to understand God better.

“When people respect the Bible, they can make God happy and do everything He wants. The Israelites were strong during King David’s time and in the early part of King Solomon’s time. That’s because they honored the law. In the days of Elijah and Josiah, the people had faith in God’s living word, the Bible. Because the people had faith, God changed many lives for the better. The Bible was the most precious gift that God gave the Israelites. Jeremiah also tried to help God’s people to change their lives for the better. So, Jeremiah invited the people to follow God’s Word.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 465, 466, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`What do people today think that sin is? What are some of the popular ideas and beliefs in your community?`

`Did you personally see sin destroy relationships with God and other people? What did the experience teach you?`

`Is obeying God’s law easy or hard for you? What things in your life cause it to be this way?`

`As Seventh-day Adventists, our name shows that we respect the law. So, how do we avoid the danger of believing that we are saved with our own good behavior? (When you stand before God as Judge, what will you depend on to save you? Will it be your obedience to God’s law? Or will you depend on Jesus’ perfect life of obedience?)`

`How can knowledge (or no knowledge at all) change someone’s relationship with God? Read Proverbs 24:3, 13, 14 for the answer.`