---
title:  Crossing the Jordan
date:  12/10/2025
---

`Read Joshua 3:1–5 and Numbers 14:41–44. Why did God ask the Israelites to specially prepare for what was about to happen?`

This is the first time the ark of the covenant is mentioned in the book of Joshua. Until this point in the Old Testament narrative, the ark has appeared in the context of the sanctuary (Exod. 40:21) in Israel’s journey from Sinai (Num. 10:33–36), and at the unsuccessful attempt to begin the conquest of Canaan (Num. 14:44). It was the most sacred object in the Israelite sanctuary, and it held three objects, each expressing Israel’s special relationship with God: (1) the tablets containing the Ten Commandments; (2) the rod of Aaron, the high priest; and (3) a jar of manna (Exod. 16:33, Heb. 9:4).

The ark and the preparations to cross the Jordan reminded the Israelites that they were not entering Canaan in their own manner and time. The conquest would be successful only if they followed God’s way and timing. God—who is described as enthroned above the cherubim that were covering the ark of the covenant (Exod. 25:22, Num. 7:89) and whose movements are identified with the ark’s movements—enters Canaan in front of the Israelites as the One leading the conquest.

The term translated “sanctify” (Josh 3:5) or “consecrate” (ESV) refers to a purification process similar to what the priests followed before beginning their service in the sanctuary (Exod. 28:41, Exod. 29:1) and what the people of Israel carried out prior to God’s revelation at Sinai (Exod. 19:10, 14). This consecration involved the laying aside of sin and the removal of all ritual impurities. The same command appears in Numbers 11:18, relating to an impending miracle of God. Such a preparation also was required before battles were fought in a war (Deut. 23:14). Before God can fight for Israel in battle, they must show their allegiance to Him and trust in Him as their Commander.

The miracle of crossing the Jordan was going to prove to the Israelites that the Lord’s promise to drive out these people in the land could be trusted. He who could secure a dry passage through the Jordan also could grant them the gift of the land.

`God does not always part the Jordan. His interventions are not always so obvious. How do you think we can develop the spiritual preparedness to experience and discern God’s interventions on our behalf?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The priests were to go before the people and bear the ark containing the law of God. And as their feet were dipped in the brim of Jordan, the waters were cut off from above, and the priests passed on, bearing the ark, which was a symbol of the Divine Presence; and the Hebrew host followed. When the priests were halfway over Jordan, they were commanded to stand in the bed of the river until all the host of Israel had passed over. Here the then existing generation of the Israelites were convinced that the waters of Jordan were subject to the same power that their fathers had seen displayed at the Red Sea forty years before. Many of these had passed through the Red Sea when they were children. Now they pass over Jordan, men of war, fully equipped for battle.\
After all the host of Israel had passed over Jordan, Joshua commanded the priests to come up out of the river. As soon as the priests, bearing the ark of the covenant, came up out of the river, and stood on dry land, Jordan rolled on as before and overflowed all his banks. This wonderful miracle performed for the Israelites greatly increased their faith. That this wonderful miracle might never be forgotten, the Lord directed Joshua to command that men of note, one of each tribe, take up stones from the bed of the river, the place where the priests’ feet stood while the Hebrew host was passing over, and bear them upon their shoulders, and erect a monument in Gilgal, to keep in remembrance the fact that Israel passed over Jordan on dry land. After the priests had come up from Jordan, God removed His mighty hand, and the waters rushed like a mighty cataract down their own channel.\
When all the kings of the Amorites and the kings of the Canaanites heard that the Lord had stayed the waters of Jordan before the children of Israel, their hearts melted with fear. The Israelites had slain two of the kings of Moab, and their miraculous passage over the swollen and impetuous Jordan filled them with the greatest terror. Joshua then circumcised all the people which had been born in the wilderness. After this ceremony they kept the passover in the plains of Jericho. “And the Lord said unto Joshua, This day have I rolled away the reproach of Egypt from off you.”\
Heathen nations had reproached the Lord and His people because the Hebrews had not possessed the land of Canaan, which they ­expected to inherit soon after leaving Egypt. Their enemies had triumphed because they had so long wandered in the wilderness, and they proudly lifted themselves up against God, declaring that He was not able to lead them into the land of Canaan. They had now passed over Jordan on dry land, and their enemies could no longer reproach them.\
The manna had continued up to this time, but now as the Israelites were about to possess Canaan and eat of the fruit of the land, they had no more need of it, and it ceased.—The Story of Redemption, pp. 176–178.