---
title:  The Living God of Wonders
date:  13/10/2025
---

`Read Joshua 3:6–17. What does the miraculous crossing of the Jordan tell us about the nature of the God whom we serve?`

The crossing of the Jordan River is described in Joshua 3:5 by the Hebrew word niphla'ot, “miracles, wonders,” which usually refers to the mighty, supernatural acts of God that demonstrate His uniqueness (Ps. 72:18, Ps. 86:10). Later, the Israelites meditated on these acts and, as a result, praised the Lord (Ps. 9:1) and proclaimed Him among the nations (Ps. 96:3). The plagues in Egypt (Exod. 3:20, Mic. 7:15), the crossing of the Red Sea, and God’s guidance in the wilderness (Ps. 78:12–16) were recounted as such wonders.

The authors of the Bible knew and testified to the fact that the God who created the world was never limited or constrained by His creation. Nothing is impossible (Heb. “too wonderful”) for Him to accomplish (Jer. 32:17). His name and His nature are wonderful (Judg. 13:18), and He is beyond our comprehension.

In contrast with the gods of the other nations, who cannot save (Ps. 96:5, Isa. 44:8), the God of the Bible is a “living God,” active and alive, whose followers can trust Him in anticipation of His interventions on their behalf.

The prophet Zechariah used the same term (from the same root as niphla'ot) as he envisioned a future for Israel after the Babylonian exile. He saw that Jerusalem would be fully rebuilt with old people sitting in the streets of the city and boys and girls playing there. To the seemingly incredulous inhabitants of the capital still displaying the signs of its destruction, Zechariah declared: “ ‘Thus says the Lord of hosts: If it is marvelous in the sight of the remnant of this people in those days, should it also be marvelous in my sight, declares the Lord of hosts? Thus says the Lord of hosts: Behold, I will save my people from the east country and from the west country, and I will bring them to dwell in the midst of Jerusalem’ ” (Zech. 8:6–8, ESV).

`Read Luke 18:18–27. How does Jesus’ answer to His disciples encourage you to trust God with what seems impossible?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Throughout the history of God’s people great mountains of difficulty, apparently insurmountable, have loomed up before those who were trying to carry out the purposes of Heaven. Such obstacles are permitted by the Lord as a test of faith. When we are hedged about on every side, this is the time above all others to trust in God and in the power of His Spirit. The exercise of a living faith means an increase of spiritual strength and the development of an unfaltering trust. It is thus that the soul becomes a conquering power. Before the demand of faith, the obstacles placed by Satan across the pathway of the Christian will disappear; for the powers of heaven will come to his aid. “Nothing shall be impossible unto you.”\
The way of the world is to begin with pomp and boasting. God’s way is to make the day of small things the beginning of the glorious triumph of truth and righteousness. Sometimes He trains His ­workers by bringing to them disappointment and apparent failure. It is His purpose that they shall learn to master difficulties.\
Often men are tempted to falter before the perplexities and obstacles that confront them. But if they will hold the beginning of their confidence steadfast unto the end, God will make the way clear.—Conflict and Courage, p. 258.\
In order to succeed in such a conflict they must come to the work in a different spirit. Their faith must be strengthened by fervent prayer and fasting, and humiliation of heart. They must be emptied of self, and be filled with the Spirit and power of God. Earnest, persevering supplication to God in faith—faith that leads to entire dependence upon God, and unreserved consecration to His work—can alone avail to bring men the Holy Spirit’s aid in the battle against principalities and powers, the rulers of the darkness of this world, and wicked spirits in high places.\
“If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed,” said Jesus, “ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove.” Though the grain of mustard seed is so small, it contains that same mysterious life principle which produces growth in the loftiest tree. When the mustard seed is cast into the ground, the tiny germ lays hold of every element that God has provided for its nutriment, and it speedily develops a sturdy growth. If you have faith like this, you will lay hold upon God’s word, and upon all the helpful agencies He has appointed. Thus your faith will strengthen, and will bring to your aid the power of heaven. The obstacles that are piled by Satan across your path, though apparently as insurmountable as the eternal hills, shall disappear before the demand of faith. “Nothing shall be impossible unto you.”—The Desire of Ages, p. 431.