---
title:  Remember
date:  14/10/2025
---

`Read Joshua 4. Why did God ask the Israelites to build a memorial?`

The purpose of these stones is to become a “sign.” The Hebrew term 'ot is often associated with the word “wonder” and can refer to miraculous acts done by God (see yesterday’s study), such as the plagues on Egypt (Exod. 7:3, Deut. 4:34). It also can carry the meaning of “symbol” or “token,” as an outward sign of a deeper or transcendent reality. For example, the rainbow is a “sign” of the covenant (Gen. 9:12, 13); the blood on the doorposts and lintels of the Israelite houses also is called a “sign” (Exod. 12:13); and most significantly, the Sabbath is a “sign” of Creation and of God’s sanctifying presence (Exod. 31:13, 17; Ezek. 20:12).

Here, the sign functions as a memorial, reminding each subsequent generation of the miracle of the crossing. The term “memorial” (zikkaron) comes from the word zakar, “to remember,” which denotes more than a passive act of recalling something. It implies a remembering followed by a proper action (Deut. 5:15, Deut. 8:2). The setting up of stone memorials (Gen. 28:18–22) and rituals that triggered questions (Exod. 12:26, 27; Deut. 6:20–25) was common in the Old Testament. Instead of repeating the miracles again and again, God establishes monuments that evoke the memory of His great acts and prompt meaningful answers. Therefore, the sign is to be there “forever,” implying the need to keep this miracle of the Lord in the collective memory of His people perpetually.

The potential question of future generations is significant because it is formulated in a personal way: “What are these stones to you?” Each new generation must internalize and understand the meaning of these stones for themselves personally. The faith in a miracle-making God can be kept alive only if each generation rediscovers the significance of the mighty acts of Yahweh for themselves. Such a faith will make a major difference between living out faithfully Bible-based traditions and traditionalism, the dead religion, deprived of its original value and fervor, of the living generation. In the end, we need to make our Bible-based faith our own. No one, especially our ancestors, can believe for us.

`What are some of the memorials, personal memorials, from your own walk with the Lord that help you remember what He has done for you?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

This pledge was given not only to Israel but to all who are obedient to God’s Word. Those who live amid the perils of the last days may realize that just as at the beginning of their experience the truth united them to the Saviour, so He who is the author and finisher of their faith will perfect the work He has begun for them. God is faithful, by whom we are called to fellowship with His Son. As men and women cooperate with God in doing the work He has given them, they go forward from strength to greater strength. As they exercise simple faith, believing day by day that God will not fail to establish them in Christ, God says to them as He did to ancient Israel: “Thou art an holy people unto the Lord thy God: the Lord thy God hath chosen thee to be a special people unto himself, above all people that are upon the face of the earth.” Deuteronomy 7:6.\
Thus God is able and willing to lead all who will be led. He desires to teach each one a lesson of constant trust, unwavering faith, and unquestioning submission. He says to each one, I am the Lord thy God. Walk with Me, and I will fill thy path with light. . . .\
But God requires obedience to all His commands. The only way in which it is possible for men to be happy is by rendering obedience to the laws of God’s kingdom.\
Life, with its privileges and endowments, is God’s gift. Let us remember that all we have comes from God, and is to be wholly and freely consecrated to Him. Paul declares, “I count all things but loss for the excellency of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung that I may win Christ, and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, but the righteousness which is of God by faith.” Philippians 3:8. The sacrifice of our ideas, our will, is necessary if we would be one with Christ in God. All we have and are must be laid at Christ’s feet.—Our High Calling, p. 24.\
[God] is the strength of His people today. We are not to trust in princes, or to set men in the place of God. We are to remember that human beings are fallible and erring, and that He who has all power is our strong tower of defense. In every emergency we are to feel that the battle is His. His resources are limitless, and apparent impossibilities will make the victory all the greater.—Conflict and Courage, p. 217.