---
title:  The Doubters
date:  03/12/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Luke 20:27–40**

**The Doubters**

In the final days of Christ’s ministry, a group of Sadducees came to Him intending to ridicule the doctrine of the resurrection. According to the apostle Paul, the Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection (Acts 23:7, 8; Acts 4:1–3). The “Sadducees denied the existence of angels, the resurrection of the dead, and the doctrine of a future life, with its rewards and punishments.” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1898), 603.)

The Sadducees rejected the resurrection on two grounds. First, in their estimation, resurrections were contrary to observable scientific principles: “Producing so-called science, they had reasoned that it would be an impossibility for a dead body to be brought to life.” (White, The Desire of Ages., 538.) Historical-critical theologians use the same argument to discard miracles today. Appealing to what they call the principle of analogy, they claim that because there are no resurrections today, we cannot believe that they occurred in the past either. Thus, neither the Sadducees nor liberal theologians believe in the power of God.

The second reason the Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection is that they could not find support for it in the Pentateuch, and for them, only the Pentateuch had unquestionable authority. Jesus could have quoted many OT verses that teach the resurrection in response to the Sadducees (cf. 1 Kings 17:17–22; Dan. 12:2; Job 19:25–27). Because the Sadducees brought forth an example from the Pentateuch, however, Jesus responded from the same source. If Jesus had chosen proof from other OT sources, the Sadducees would have rejected His argument outright, for they believed that only the writings of Moses were fully authoritative.

#### inScribe

Write out Luke 20:27–40 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Luke 20:34–38. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `