---
title:  God’s Time Frame and Ours
date:  04/12/2022
---

#### inGest

These enemies of Jesus ridiculed the doctrine of the resurrection with the preposterous hypothetical case of the seven brothers who married the same woman (Luke 20:27–33). As expected, they quoted the Mosaic legislation as the foundation for their example (cf. Deut. 25:5). After telling their fictitious story, they asked Jesus whose wife the woman would be in the resurrection. Jesus responded that they were mistaken on three counts. First, their example was irrelevant because in the world to come there will be no marriage. Second, they did not know the Scriptures because the Torah itself—which the Sadducees claimed to revere—teaches the resurrection of the dead (Luke 22:29, 30). Third, God does indeed have the omnipotent power to raise the dead.

In His rebuttal Jesus quoted Exodus 3:6, where God said to Moses, “ ‘I _am_ the God of your father—the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’ ” (emphasis supplied). When God spoke these words to Moses, these three patriarchs were dead; and yet God did not say, “I _was_ the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob” while they were alive, but rather “I am.” Some Protestant interpreters assume that Jesus meant that the disembodied souls of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob were alive at that moment, though their bodies were still in the grave. The expression “all live _unto Him_” in Luke 20:38 (emphasis supplied) proves otherwise, however. According to Jesus, all live _unto God_, not unto us!

“God counts the things that are not _as though they were_. He sees the end from the beginning, and beholds the result of His work as though it were _now accomplished_. The precious dead, from Adam down to the last saint who dies, will hear the voice of the Son of God, and will come forth from the grave to immortal life. God will be their God, and they shall be His people. . . . This condition, which is anticipated in His purpose, He beholds as if it were _already existing_. The dead live _unto Him_.” (Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1898), 606, emphasis supplied.)

For us time-bound creatures, the past and the future are separated by time. God is not time bound as we are. That which _for us_ is potential and future is, for God, actual and present. In the mind of God, things exist before they come into actual existence! Although time is important to God, in contrast to us He lives in an eternal present. After all, He is the great “I AM” (Ex. 3:14)! “I AM means an eternal presence; the past, present, and future are alike to God. He sees the most remote events of past history and the far distant future with as clear a vision as we do those things that are transpiring daily.” (Ellen G. White, _Manuscript Releases, Vol. 14_ (Silver Spring, MD: Ellen G. White Estate, 1990), 21.)

**Memorize your favorite verse in Luke 20:27–40. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`What are the implications of God not being bound to time as we are?`

`What are the implications of God being in time exactly as we are?`