---
title:  A Done Deal
date:  05/12/2022
---

#### inTerpret

The idea of God living in an eternal present seems puzzling to us because we are captives of time and He is not. Let’s take a biblical example that will help us understand the difference between God’s relationship to time and ours. Before the birth of Isaac, God told Abram that He would be the father of many nations: “As for Me, behold, My covenant is with you, and you shall be a father of many nations” (Gen. 17:4, NKJV, emphasis supplied). In this verse, God was speaking from Abram’s timeframe because Abraham was not yet the father of many nations. In the very next verse, however, God told him that He had made him the father of many nations, which was from God’s timeframe: “No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham; for I have made you a father of many nations” (v. 5, NKJV, emphasis supplied).

From Abraham’s perspective the promise was yet future, but from God’s perspective it was already a done deal! The apostle Paul confirms that this assessment of the text is correct. In the book of Romans, the apostle referred to these verses in Genesis: “(As it is written, ‘I have made you the father of many nations’). He is our father in the presence of God whom he believed—the God who makes the dead alive and summons the things that do not yet exist as though they already do” (Rom. 4:17, NET Bible, emphasis supplied).

Albert Barnes explained Paul’s argument in Romans 4: “That is, those things which he foretells and promises are so certain, that he may speak of them as already in existence. Thus, in relation to Abraham, God, instead of simply promising that he would make him the father of many nations, speaks of it as already done, ‘I have made thee,’ etc. In his own mind, or purpose, he had so constituted him, and it was so certain that it would take place, that he might speak of it as already done.” (Barnes’ Notes, Electronic Database, Copyright © 1997, 2003, 2005, 2006 by Biblesoft, Inc.)

This concept helps us understand in what sense Jesus is the Lamb of God slain from the foundation of the world (Rev. 13:8). From our perspective, Jesus died on a Friday afternoon in the year a.d. 31. From God’s perspective, however, it was an accomplished fact from before the foundation of the world. The idea of a God who lives in an eternal present also helps us understand how the names of God’s faithful children were written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, before they existed, while the names of the wicked were not (Rev. 17:8). God knew who would choose to be saved and who would not, but He did not predetermine it.

` `