---
title:  A Response to Naturalism
date:  07/12/2022
---

#### inVite

As we have seen, the Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection of the dead for two reasons. First, in their minds it was scientifically untenable, and second, they did not believe it could be found in the Torah.

The world of secularism today is just as unbelieving as the Sadducees. Naturalism does not admit the possibility that decomposed bodies can miraculously come forth from the ground perfect, immortal, and incorruptible; therefore, the intelligentsia of the world also rejects the Scriptures. On the other hand, Christians believe in both the Scriptures and the power of God. They believe that the God who can metamorphose a caterpillar into a beautiful butterfly can also transform our lowly body that it may be conformed to Christ’s glorious body (Phil. 3:21). In the New Testament we have even greater scriptural evidence for the resurrection than those who lived in the days of Christ. The New Testament promises: “Behold, I tell you a mystery: We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed—in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed” (1 Cor. 15:51, 52, NKJV).

Although nature (for example, the death and “resurrection” of a seed in John 12:24 and the miracle of metamorphosis) and Scripture support the resurrection, absolute certainty ultimately depends on faith, and faith comes only when we personally know Jesus. Thus, Paul wrote, “that I may _know Him_ and the power of His resurrection, and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death, if, by any means, I may attain to the resurrection from the dead” (Phil. 3:10, 11, NKJV, emphasis supplied).

How certain can we be that God will resurrect those who died in Christ? Without the slightest doubt, because for God it is already an accomplished fact! “In the mind of God, the ministry of men and women existed before the world was created.” (Ellen G. White, _Sons and Daughters of God_ (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1955), 101.) Ellen White did not write that the ministry of men and women _would_ exist when Adam and Eve were created. It already existed in the mind of God from eternity past, and likewise, the resurrection of His precious saints. Psalm 116:15 assures us that “precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints.” From the perspective of the Sadducees in Christ’s day, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob were dead, but from God’s perspective, they lived. In the mind of God, the resurrection of the righteous is an accomplished fact. For Him they live! “Therefore, comfort one another with these words” (1 Thess. 4:18).

`How does your ministry existing before the world was created impact your personal ministry for Jesus today?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`