---
title:  From the Beginning
date:  08/12/2022
---

#### inSight

“The Sadducees reasoned that if the body is to be composed of the same particles of matter in its immortal as in its mortal state, then when raised from the dead it must have flesh and blood, and must resume in the eternal world the life interrupted on earth. In that case they concluded that earthly relationships would be resumed, husband and wife would be reunited, marriages consummated, and all things go on the same as before death, the frailties and passions of this life being perpetuated in the life beyond. . . .

“God counts the things that are not as though they were. He sees the end from the beginning, and beholds the result of His work as though it were now accomplished. The precious dead, from Adam down to the last saint who dies, will hear the voice of the Son of God, and will come forth from the grave to immortal life. God will be their God, and they shall be His people. There will be a close and tender relationship between God and the risen saints. This condition, which is anticipated in His purpose, He beholds as if it were already existing. The dead live unto Him.” (Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1898), 605, 606.)

“I AM means an eternal presence; the past, present, and future are alike to God. He sees the most remote events of past history and the far distant future with as clear a vision as we do those things that are transpiring daily.” (Ellen G. White, _Manuscript Releases, Vol. 14_ (Silver Spring, MD: Ellen G. White Estate, 1990), 21.)

“If you have given yourself to God, to do His work, you have no need to be anxious for tomorrow. He whose servant you are, knows the end from the beginning. The events of tomorrow, which are hidden from your view, are open to the eyes of Him who is omnipotent.” (Ellen G. White, _Prayer_ (Nampa, ID: Pacific Press, 2002), 226, 227.)

“God knows the end from the beginning. He is acquainted with the hearts of all men. He reads every secret of the soul. He knows whether those for whom prayer is offered would or would not be able to endure the trials that would come upon them should they live. He knows whether their lives would be a blessing or a curse to themselves and to the world. This is one reason why, while presenting our petitions with earnestness, we should say, ‘Nevertheless not my will, but Thine, be done.’ Luke 22:42.” (Ellen G. White, _Counsels for the Church_ (Nampa, ID: Pacific Press, 1991), 305.)

`After this week’s study of the chapter, how does it impact your personal life?`

`How does it impact your public life?`