---
title:  Major Themes in 1 and 2 Peter
date:   17/06/2017
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Isa. 53:5, 6, 9; Lev. 16:16–19; Lev. 11:44; Rom. 13:1–7; 1 Cor. 14:40; 2 Tim. 3:16.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “He himself bore our sins in his body on the cross, so that, free from sins, we might live for righteousness; by his wounds you have been healed” (1 Peter 2:24, NRSV). 

First and 2 Peter were written for practical purposes. In 1 Peter, the big issue Peter confronted was the persecution that Christians were facing. In 2 Peter, the great issue was false teachers. Peter wrote forcefully and authoritatively as he sought to encourage his readers, as well as warn them in regard to the challenges before them.

What is significant is that Peter responds to both issues in theological terms. The sufferings caused by persecution led Peter to meditate on the sufferings and death of Jesus, which had resulted in our salvation. The false teachers are going to face the judgment. This judgment will take place after Jesus returns to this earth with the saved after the thousand years in heaven have ended. These are some of the themes that Peter deals with in his two letters. 

This final week’s lesson will look in more detail at five of the themes Peter wrote about: the suffering of Jesus that led to our salvation; our practical response to the knowledge that God will judge our actions at the last judgment; the hope we have in the soon return of Jesus; order in society and in the church; and the role Scripture has in providing guidance in our lives.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, June 24._