---
title:  Suffering, Jesus, and Salvation
date:   18/06/2017
---

Read the following passages, and note what each reveals about salvation:

`1 Pet. 1:2`

`1 Pet. 1:8, 9`

`1 Pet. 1:18, 19`

`1 Pet. 2:22–25`

`1 Pet. 3:18` 

When Peter mentions salvation, it is usually in the context of Jesus’ suffering as a Substitute for sinners. For example, in 1 Peter 2:22–24, when Peter writes about the suffering of Jesus, he is using language that reflects Isaiah 53:5, 6, 9. “[Jesus] bore our sins in His own body” on the cross and “by whose stripes you were healed” (1 Pet. 2:24, NKJV) reveal the ideas of substitution and sacrifice.

In many of the sacrifices described in the Hebrew Bible, sinners brought their offerings to the temple and laid their hands on them. This act symbolically transferred the sin from the sinner to the animal, which then died in the sinner’s place (Lev. 4:29, 30, 33, 34; 14:10–13). The uncleanness of sin that accumulated on the altar was cleansed and removed on the Day of Atonement (Lev. 16:16–19). 

The blood of the sacrifice played an important role in atoning for sin. Christians have been ransomed by the precious blood of Jesus (1 Pet. 1:18, 19). Paul, too, expressed the same idea of substitution: Jesus, who knew no sin, became sin for us (2 Cor. 5:21). As 1 Peter 3:18 states, Christ suffered for sins, the righteous (Jesus) for the unrighteous (us).

Like Paul (Rom. 3:21, 22), Peter emphasizes the need for faith. As he says to his readers: “Although you have not seen him, you love him . . . for you are receiving the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls” (1 Pet. 1:8, 9, NRSV). Salvation is not earned by godly behavior, but it is granted when we believe in what Jesus has done for us and accept Him as our personal Savior. Our assurance is found in Him, not in ourselves. If it were in ourselves, what real assurance would we have?

`Why is Jesus, as your Substitute, the Great Hope of salvation? What comfort can you draw from this wonderful truth?`