---
title:  Hope in the Second Coming
date:   20/06/2017
---

Read the following texts, and note what is said about future events:

`1 Pet. 1:4`  

`1 Pet. 1:17` 

`1 Pet. 4:5, 6` 

`1 Pet. 4:17` 

`2 Pet. 3:1–10` 

One of the crucial issues facing those who first read and heard 1 Peter was persecution. Peter comforts his readers with the thought that, even though their lives may be hampered by persecution, there is a future reward waiting for them in heaven, a reward that cannot be taken away. Very early in 1 Peter, he mentions that Christians have an imperishable inheritance kept in heaven for them (1 Pet. 1:4). 

Peter highlights two things that will take place in the future: the last judgment and the fiery destruction of evil. In other words, he shows that although there is persecution now, justice and judgment will be done, and believers will receive their eternal reward. 

Peter mentions judgment on three separate occasions (1 Pet. 1:17; 4:5, 6, 17). He says that God the Father judges all humans impartially according to their deeds (1 Pet. 1:17). He notes that Jesus Himself stands ready to judge the living and the dead (1 Pet. 4:5). He also makes the intriguing observation that judgment starts with the household of God (1 Pet. 4:17).

Peter also emphasizes that “the godless” will be destroyed in a worldwide firestorm (2 Pet. 3:7).

Peter spends some time dealing with problems that arose about whether or not Jesus is indeed coming back (2 Pet. 3:1–10). He points out that the “delay” of Jesus’ second coming is to allow more people to repent and be saved. He also points out that the certainty of a future reckoning should convince everyone to live a holy and blameless life.

Thus, however focused Peter is on the here and now and on practical Christian living, he still keeps before his readers the future hope that awaits them. In short, whatever the circumstances at the moment, they need to press on ahead in faith and obedience.

`Why, too, must you press on ahead in faith and obedience, regardless of your circumstances? What other option is there?`