---
title:  Some Lessons From Job
date:   24/12/2016
---

### Some Lessons From Job

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON:
2 Corinthians 5:7; Job 1–Job 2:8; Matthew 4:10; Matthew 13:39; John 8:1–11; Hebrews 11:10; Hebrews 4:15.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “As you know, we think that people who don’t [do not] give up are blessed. You have heard that Job was patient. And you have seen what the Lord finally did for him. The Lord is full of tender [gentle] mercy and loving concern” (James 5:11, NIrV).

WE HAVE COME TO THE END of this quarter’s study on Job.We have covered much in the book. But we must admit that there is still so much more to cover, so much more to learn. Of course, even in this world, everything we learn and discover simply leads to more things to learn and to discover. And if it is like that with atoms, stars, jellyfish, and math equations, how much more so with the Word of God (the Bible)?

“We have no reason to doubt God’s Word just because we cannot understand the mysteries of His leading. The natural world is always filled with wonders beyond our understanding. Should we then be surprised to find in the spiritual world also mysteries that we cannot understand? The difficulty is because of the weakness and narrowness [limits] of the human mind.” —Adapted from Ellen G. White, Education, page 170.  

Yes, mysteries remain, especially in a book like Job. It raises many of life’s most difficult questions. This week, we will look at some lessons we can learn from this story that can help us, like Job, to be faithful to the Lord in a world filled with trouble and suffering.

###### DEFINITIONS

1. **equations**—in mathematics, a statement that two expressions (symbols or combinations of symbols and signs that show a quantity or a process) are equal (such as 8 + 3 = 11 or 2x – 3 = 7).