---
title:  EVIL BEING (PERSON)
date:   26/12/2016
---

### EVIL BEING (PERSON)

(Job 1:1–Job 2:8)

One of the great questions that has challenged human thinking deals with evil. Some philosophers and even some who believe deeply in religion have denied that evil is real. They think we should at least stop using the word evil. But most people would disagree. Evil is real. It is a part of this world. We can argue over what is or is not evil. But most of us “know it when we see it,” to quote what a United States Supreme Court justice said in another situation.

Evil is sometimes put into two broad classes: natural evil and moral evil. Natural evil is the kind that happens in nature, such as when earthquakes or floods or diseases bring suffering. Moral evil results from the deliberate (done on purpose) actions of other human beings to do wrong, such as murder or robbery.

All kinds of theories try to explain why there is evil. As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe that the Bible teaches that evil started with the fall of a created being (person), Satan. But many others have denied the idea Satan. They refuse to accept what the Bible clearly says about Satan as a real being, who tries to harm humans as much as possible. 

This truth especially is made clear in the book of Job.

`Read Job 1:1 to Job 2:8. How do these two chapters help us to identify the work of Satan in the evil that has spread all around the world?`

In Job’s case, Satan is directly responsible for the evil, both moral and natural, that happens to Job. But the book of Job does not teach that every example of evil or suffering is due to the work of demons. As with the characters in the book of Job, we, too, just do not know all the reasons for the terrible things that happen. In fact, the name “Satan” never even comes up in the discussions about all the bad things that happen to Job. The speakers (Job’s friends) blame God, they blame Job, but never Satan himself. No matter what, though, the book of Job should show us who is responsible, in the end, for the evil on the earth.

`Read Revelation 12:12; Matthew 4:10; Matthew 13:39; Luke 8:12; Luke 13:16; Luke 22:3, 31; Acts 5:3; and 1 Peter 5:8. What do these verses tell us about how real Satan is? More important, what examples do you have of Satan’s influence in your life? How can you be protected against him?`

##### DEFINITIONS

5.	**philosophers**—persons who study ideas about knowledge, truth, and the nature and meaning of life.
6.	**moral evil**—having to do with choosing wrong and evil over right and good.