---
title:  WITH FRIENDS LIKE THESE ...
date:   27/12/2016
---

### WITH FRIENDS LIKE THESE ...

(John 8:1–11)

All through the book of Job, the three (and then four) men who come to speak to Job do so with good motives. They have heard what has happened to Job. And they come “to mourn with him and to comfort him” (Job 2:11). Job is the first to speak, saying how unhappy he is about the terrible events that have happened to him. But his friends feel it is more important for them to scold Job by “setting his religion right” than it is to encourage and uplift the spirits of their suffering friend. 

Time after time, they get it all wrong. But suppose they were right? Suppose all these things came upon Job because he deserved them? His friends might have been right about religious beliefs, but so what? Does Job need correct religion? Or does he need something else completely?

`Read John 8:1–11. What does Jesus show here that Job’s friends do not have?` 

In this story, there is a big difference between the woman taken in adultery and those who accuse (blame) her, and Job and those who accuse (blame) him. The woman is guilty. She might have been less guilty of sin than those who accuse her. But there is never a question of her guilt. Job is not guilty of what his friends accuse him of. But suppose Job had been guilty as had this woman. If so, then what Job needed from these men is what this woman needed, and what all suffering people need: God’s grace and forgiveness. 

“Jesus pardoned this woman and encouraged her to live a better life. By this act of pardon the character [thoughts; feelings; actions] of Jesus shines forth in the beauty of perfect righteousness [holy life]. While He does not make light of sin, nor lessen the sense of guilt, He does not try to criticize, but to save. The world looked down on this woman of sin with scorn. But Jesus speaks to her words of comfort and hope.” —Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 462.

What the book of Job should teach us is that we need to give others what we would like to receive if we were in their shoes. There is surely a time and place for rebuke (scolding). But before we rebuke anyone for doing wrong, we need to remember humbly that we are sinners ourselves.

`How can we learn to have more mercy for those who are suffering, even suffering from their own wrong actions?`

##### DEFINITIONS

7.	**motives**—reasons for doing something; purpose.
8.	**grace**—God’s gift of mercy and forgiveness that He freely gives us to take away our sins.