---
title:  MORE THAN THORNS AND THISTLES
date:   28/12/2016
---

### MORE THAN THORNS AND THISTLES

(Genesis 3:16–24)

We all know that life is hard. Right at Eden, after the Fall, we were given some hints of how hard it would be. For example, the Lord let our first parents know what some of the results of their sin would be (read Genesis 3:16–24). But these were just hints. If the only challenges we faced in life were “thorns and thistles,” human life would be very different from how it is today. 

We look around and see much suffering, sickness, poverty, war, crime, depression (deep sadness), pollution, and injustice. The historian Herodotus wrote about a culture in which people mourned (were sad) when a baby was born. They mourned because they knew the unavoidable sorrow and suffering that the child would face if he or she were to reach adulthood. Seems terrible, but who can argue with this reasoning?

But in the book of Job, there is a message of hope for us about the human condition. As we learned, Job is a symbol of all people who suffer. We suffer often in ways that just do not seem fair for whatever sins we have done. Such suffering is not fair to Job, and it is not fair to us. 

What the book of Job can say to us is that God is there, God knows, and God promises that our suffering does not all have to be for nothing. 

Secular writers and those who do not believe in God struggle to understand the meaninglessness of a life that ends forever in death. They struggle and struggle for answers and still come up with nothing. This life, in and of itself, offers nothing. There is an unbeliever’s philosophy called “nihilism” from a Latin word, nihil, which means “nothing.” Nihilism teaches that our world and our lives in the world mean nothing.  

But the book of Job points us to a God in heaven beyond the nihil, or nothing, that our lives threaten to one day become. The book of Job points us to God and to the hope of life in heaven. It tells us that all that happens to us does not happen in a vacuum (an empty space). Instead, there is a God who knows all about what is happening. He promises to make it all right one day.  Whatever grand (important) questions the book of Job leaves unanswered, it does not leave us with nothing in our hands but the ashes of our lives (read Genesis 3:19; Job 2:8). Instead, it leaves us with the hope of hopes.

`Share your favorite Bible verses that clearly say that we have a great hope that goes beyond anything this world offers. (Read, for example, Hebrews 11:10; Revelation 21:2.)`


##### DEFINITIONS

9.	**thistles**—wild plants that have sharp points on their leaves and purple, yellow, or white flowers.
10.	**Herodotus**—a Greek historian who lived sometime between 484 b.c. and 420 b.c.
11.	**secular**—not spiritual, not religious.
12.	**philosophy**—the study of ideas about knowledge, truth, and the nature and meaning of life.
13.	**nihilism**—the belief that traditional morals (beliefs about what is right and wrong), ideas, and beliefs have no value. Nihilism is also the belief that a society’s political and social institutions are so bad that they should be destroyed.