---
title:  JESUS AND JOB
date:   29/12/2016
---

### JESUS AND JOB

(1 John 2:1)

Bible students through the ages have tried to find things in the story of Job that are also in the story of Jesus. Job is not exactly a “type [symbol]” of Jesus (as were the animals in the system of sacrifices). But there are some interesting comparisons. In these comparisons we can learn another lesson from Job: what our salvation cost the Lord.

`Compare Job 1:1 with 1 John 2:1; James 5:6; and Acts 3:14. What is the same in each of these verses?`

`Read Matthew 4:1–11. In what ways are Jesus and Job like each other?`

`Read Matthew 26:61; Luke 11:15, 16; and John 18:30. These verses describe the troubles and false charges (blame for wrongdoing) that Jesus experienced. How does the experience of Jesus we read about in these verses compare with the experience of Job?` 

`Compare Job 1:22 with Hebrews 4:15. How are the two verses the same?`

These verses do show interesting comparisons between the experiences of Job and Jesus. Job, of course, is not sinless, but Jesus is. Job is a faithful and righteous (holy) man whose life brings glory (praise and honor) to the Father. Job is tempted  by the devil, as Jesus was. All through the book of Job, Job is accused (blamed) falsely. Jesus, too, faces false charges. 

Finally, and perhaps most important, no matter what happens, Job stays faithful to the Lord. Much more in our favor, Jesus stays faithful too. Many things happen to Jesus. But He lives a sinless life. It is a life that perfectly represents the character of God. Jesus is the “exact likeness of God’s being” (Hebrews 1:3, NIrV). He alone has the righteousness (holy life) needed for salvation. “We are made right with God by putting our faith in Jesus Christ. That happens to all who believe. It is no different for the Jews than for anyone else” (Romans 3:22, NIrV).

Job might have gone through much. But his suffering and his faithfulness during the suffering are a small and imperfect example of what Jesus, his Savior, would face for Job’s sake, and for ours too. Jesus surely will come, and “in the end he [Jesus] will stand on the earth” (Job 19:25, NIrV).


##### DEFINITIONS

14.	**compare**—to show how two or more things are the same or different.
15.	**tempted**—to feel the desire to sin.