---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   30/12/2016
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

Through the centuries, the book of Job has thrilled, taught, and challenged readers in Judaism, Christianity, and even Islam. (Islam has its own version of the Bible story of Job.) We say challenged because the book leaves many questions unanswered. On one level, this should not be so surprising. After all, from Genesis to Revelation, what book of the Bible does not leave questions unanswered? Even taken as a whole, the Bible does not answer every issue that it brings up. Of the topics it covers, the fall of humans and the plan of salvation are subjects that we will be studying throughout eternity (read The Great Controversy [War Between Christ and Satan], page 678). So how could one little book of the Bible answer everything for us now?

But the book of Job does not stand alone. It is part of a much greater picture shown in the Word of God. And as part of a great spiritual picture, it gives a powerful message to all the followers of God. And that message is: faithfulness during hardships. Job is a living example of Jesus’ own words: “ ‘But the one who stands firm [strong] to the end will be saved’ ” (Matthew 24:13, NIrV). What believer in Jesus, seeking to do right, has not at times faced terrible wrong? What believer in Jesus, trying to be faithful, has not faced challenges to his or her faith? What believer in Jesus, wanting comfort, has been blamed instead? Still, the book of Job presents us with an example of someone who faced all this but kept his faith strong. By faith and by grace we trust in the One who died on the cross for Job and for us. And the message to us is, “ ‘Go and do likewise [the same]’ ” (Luke 10:37, NKJV). In other words, God encourages us to have faith and trust in His Son, as Job did.

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:
`Place yourself in the mind of a Jew who, knowing the book of Job, lived before the coming of Jesus. What questions do you think that person might have that we today, living after Jesus, do not have? That is, how does the story of Jesus and what He has done for us help us to better understand the book of Job?`

`When you get to meet Job, what might be the first question you ask him? And why?`

`What are some questions and issues that the book of Job touches on that we did not cover in this quarter?`

`What is the main spiritual lesson that you get from this study on Job? Share your answers with your class.`