---
title:  Christ’s Victory Over Death
date:  05/11/2022
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matt. 27:62–66; John 10:17, 18; Matt. 27:51–53; John 20:11–29; 1 Cor. 15:5–8.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “When I saw him, I fell down at his feet like a dead man. He put his right hand on me and said, ‘Do not be afraid. I am the First and the Last. I am the One who lives; I was dead, but look, I am alive forever and ever! And I hold the keys to death and to the place of the dead’ ” (Rev. 1:17, 18, NCV).

Central to the Christian faith is the resurrection of Jesus. Paul made this point very powerfully when he wrote: “For if the dead do not rise, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, your faith is futile; you are still in your sins! Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished” (1 Cor. 15:16–18, NKJV). We will look at this in more detail next week.

Thus, no matter all the emphasis Paul put on Christ’s death, and how important it was—“For I determined not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified” (1 Cor. 2:2, NKJV)—it really does us no good apart from His resurrection. That’s how crucial the resurrection of Jesus is to the entire Christian faith and the plan of salvation.

However, it’s hard to understand why the resurrection of Christ and with it our resurrection are so important if, as many believe, the dead in Christ are already enjoying the bliss of heaven as they have “gone home to be with the Lord.”

All that aside, this week we will look at Christ’s resurrection and all the convincing evidence He gave us to believe in it.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, November 12._---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Think of how much it cost Christ to leave the heavenly courts, and take His position at the head of humanity. Why did He do this? Because He was the only one who could redeem the fallen race. There was not a human being in the world who was without sin. The Son of God stepped down from His heavenly throne, laid off His royal robe and kingly crown, and clothed His divinity with hu­manity. He came to die for us, to lie in the tomb as human beings must, and to be raised for our justification. He came to become acquainted with all the temptations wherewith man is beset. He rose from the grave and proclaimed over the rent sepulcher of Joseph, “I am the resurrection, and the life.” One equal with God passed through death in our behalf. He tasted death for every man, that through Him every man might be a partaker of eternal life.—In Heavenly Places, p. 13.

Through the cross we learn that our heavenly Father loves us with an infinite and everlasting love, and draws us to Him with more than a mother’s yearning sympathy for a wayward child. Can we wonder that Paul exclaimed, “God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ”? It is our privilege also to glory in the cross of Calvary, our privilege to give ourselves wholly to Him who gave Himself for us. Then with the light of love that shines from His face on ours, we shall go forth to reflect it to those in darknes­s.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 5, p. 1133.

Jesus placed the cross in line with the light coming from heaven, for it is there that it shall catch the eye of man. The cross is in direct line with the shining of the divine countenances, so that by beholding the cross men may see and know God and Jesus Christ, whom He hath sent. In beholding God we behold the One who poured out His soul unto death. In beholding the cross the view is extended to God, and His hatred of sin is discerned. But while we behold in the cross God’s hatred of sin, we also behold His love for sinners, which is stronger than death. To the world the cross is the incontrovertible argument that God is truth and light and love.—Signs of the Times, March 7, 1895.