---
title:  Witnesses of the Risen Christ
date:  09/11/2022
---

`Read John 20:11–29 and 1 Corinthians 15:5–8. How did the disciples react when they first met the risen Christ?`

The two angels at the empty tomb told Mary Magdalene and some other women that Jesus had risen (Matt. 28:1, 5–7; Mark 16:1–7; Luke 24:1–11). But soon Jesus Himself appeared to them, and they worshiped Him (Matt. 28:1, 9, 10; John 20:14–18). He appeared also to Peter (Luke 24:34, 1 Cor. 15:5) and to the two disciples on their way to Emmaus, whose hearts were burning while He was speaking to them (Mark 16:12, Luke 24:13–35). When Jesus came into the Upper Room, the disciples were initially terrified and frightened, but then they were filled with joy and marveled at what had happened (Luke 24:33–49, John 20:19–23). A week later, Jesus came again into the same room without opening the doors, and then even Thomas believed in His resurrection (John 20:24–29).

During the 40 days between His resurrection and His ascension, Jesus “was seen by over five hundred brethren at once” (1 Cor. 15:6, NKJV) and by James (1 Cor. 15:7). Jesus joined some disciples at the shore of the Sea of Galilee and had breakfast with them, followed by a talk with Peter (John 21:1–23). There might have been other appearances of Jesus (Acts 1:3) before the final one at His ascension (Luke 24:50–53, Acts 1:1–11). Paul also considered himself an eyewitness to the risen Christ, who appeared to him on the road to Damascus (1 Cor. 15:8; compare with Acts 9:1–9).

When the other disciples first told the absent Thomas they had seen the risen Lord, he reacted by saying, “ ‘Unless I see in His hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and put my hand into His side, I will not believe’ ” (John 20:25, NKJV). A week later, Jesus reappeared to the disciples, now with Thomas present, Jesus said to him, “ ‘Reach your finger here, and look at My hands; and reach your hand here, and put it into My side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing’ ” (John 20:27, NKJV).

Then Thomas confessed, “ ‘My Lord and my God!’ ”

And Jesus added, “ ‘Thomas, because you have seen Me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed’ ” (John 20:29, NKJV).

`“ ‘Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.’ ” Even if you have not seen for yourself the resurrected Christ, what other reasons do you have for your faith in Jesus?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The two travelers [from Emmaus], panting with the haste with which they have made their journey, tell the wondrous story of how Jesus has appeared to them. They have just ended, and some are saying that they cannot believe it, for it is too good to be true, when behold, another Person stands before them. Every eye is fastened upon the stranger. No one has knocked for entrance. No footstep has been heard. The disciples are startled, and wonder what it means. Then they hear a voice which is no other than the voice of their Master. Clear and distinct the words fall from His lips, “Peace be unto you.”<br/>
“But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit. And He said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts? Behold My hands and My feet, that it is I Myself: handle Me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see Me have. And when He had thus spoken, He showed them His hands and His feet.”<br/>
They beheld the hands and feet marred by the cruel nails. They recognized His voice, like no other they had ever heard. “And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, He said unto them, Have ye here any meat? And they gave Him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. And He took it, and did eat before them.” “Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord.” Faith and joy took the place of unbelief, and with feelings which no words could express they acknowledged their risen Saviour.—The Desire of Ages, pp. 802, 803.

Jesus, in His treatment of Thomas, gave His followers a lesson regarding the manner in which they should treat those who have doubts upon religious truth, and who make those doubts prominent. He did not overwhelm Thomas with words of reproach, nor did He enter into a controversy with him; but, with marked condescension and tenderness, He revealed Himself unto the doubting one. Thomas had taken a most unreasonable position, in dictating the only conditions of his faith; but Jesus, by His generous love and consideration, broke down all the barriers he had raised. Persistent controversy will seldom weaken unbelief, but rather put it upon self-defense, where it will find new support and excuse. Jesus, revealed in His love and mercy as the crucified Saviour, will bring from many once unwilling lips the acknowledgment of Thomas, “My Lord, and my God.”—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 5, p. 1151.