---
title:  Finding Home
date:   19/04/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 25

**Finding Home**

When my wife and I got married, we bought some local newspapers and began searching for the cheapest place we could find to rent. We planned to live cheaply, save as much as possible, and purchase a home as soon as we could. Our plan was off and running when we found a fully furnished one bedroom place for a very affordable price. We signed the rental agreement and prepared to move. After settling in, it wasn’t long before we understood that “fully furnished” did not necessarily mean the furniture was any good. The couches were old and worn, the bed sagged in the middle, and the other units in the building shared the air conditioning. That might so¬und m¬¬-inor, but it was incredibly bothersome. We could smell what everyone was cooking, eating, smoking, and some other things I can’t mention here. One tenant loved to smoke marijuana at night. We woke up many mornings slightly “buzzed” after inhaling marijuana fumes during the night. We soon realized this apartment was not our home.

Living in our imperfect little place drove us to save more. In just six months, God helped us purchase our first home. A new development sprang up, and we were fortunate to get one of the little starter homes in the neighborhood. I’ll never forget the day we moved in. We didn’t have much, so moving was easy. Unlike the apartment, our new home had no furniture, no drapes to cover the windows, and no food in the refrigerator, yet our hearts leaped and huge smiles creased our faces as we opened the door to our new home. All we had was our clothing and a mattress, but we were home.

After four hundred years of Egyptian captivity, God yearned to deliver the children of Abraham and take them home. However, one of the very first things God did after delivering the Israelites was build a dwelling place for Himself. This week we will consider the house God commissioned for Himself.

### inScribe

Write out Exodus 25:1–9 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 8, 9. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `