---
title:  I Want to Live with You
date:   20/04/2025
---

### inGest

**I Want to Live with You**

After Israel’s magnificent deliverance from Egyptian bondage, God knew He had much to do to rebuild His people’s spiritual lives. To begin, He summoned Moses to Mount Sinai and gave him the Ten Commandments, outlining the moral code by which the people must live (Exod. 20). He gave laws concerning masters and servants, violence, and animal control (Exod. 21). He outlined how property should be handled (Exod. 22), justice dispensed, Sabbaths and feasts days kept (Exod. 23), and the blessings awaiting faithful covenant keepers. Exodus 24 describes Moses building an altar, where Israel solemnly affirmed their covenant with God, but God was far from finished.

After establishing a covenantal relationship with Israel, God did something radical: He commissioned a construction project in the middle of their desert journey (Exod. 25). He told Moses to have the Israelites bring Him offerings, but only from those who gave from their hearts (v. 2). He then gave specific instructions about the offerings that would be acceptable to Him (vv. 3–7). After this, He declared, “Let them make Me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them” (v. 8). So important was this command that the remaining fifteen chapters of Exodus describe the construction and preparation of this sacred dwelling for God.

The first and most striking feature of God’s command to build a sanctuary is His decision to live among people who were spiritually unfaithful. The mixed multitude (Exod. 12:38) that came out of Egypt did not know God or how to live in relationship with Him. To be sure, God had been with Israel during their long, painful bondage in Egypt. He had heard their cries for deliverance (Exod. 3:7–10). What God announced in Exodus 25:8, 9 was a different kind of presence. He was going to pitch His tent in the middle of the Israelite tents so that the visible presence of the invisible God would be with them (Exod. 40:34).

When God chose to live among the Israelites, His presence reassured them of His protection and provision. The fact that the sanctuary sat at the center of the Israelite encampment sent an unmistakable message: worshiping God is the center of life. God’s house would be a place to reconcile relationships with God, receive forgiveness of sins, and experience abundant life in Him.

In launching this sacred building project, God did another amazing thing. He invited sinful, imperfect human beings to help Him build His sanctuary. God wanted the Israelites to know they were always welcome at His house, no matter what they had done. What a God!

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verses from Exodus 25. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What do you think it was like to live with God constantly in the middle of the camp? Explore the idea!`

`Why would a God who is present everywhere need a visual presence?`