---
title:  Worship in Type and Symbol
date:   21/04/2025
---

### inTerpret

The earthly sanctuary God commissioned held several precious items, each of which held special significance. The earthly sanctuary, a copy of the tabernacle in heaven (Heb. 8:2), pointed forward to Jesus Christ and His ministry to save lost human beings. Each item in the sanctuary illustrates a different facet of worship and devotion to God.

The outer court of the sanctuary, the first place you’d enter when coming to the tabernacle, held the altar of burnt offering, the place where sacrifices for sin were made (Exod. 27:1–8). The Israelite exodus from Egypt began with the sacrifice of a Passover lamb (Exod. 12:1–11), whose blood protected Israelite homes from the angel of death that slew the firstborns in Egypt (vv. 12, 13). Our journey to the Promised Land of heaven begins by accepting Jesus Christ, the Passover Lamb slain to atone for our sins.

Next was the laver, a washbasin used by the priests to clean their hands and feet before going inside the tabernacle (Exod. 30:17–21). The Israelites—a kingdom of priests (Exod. 19:6)—passed through the Red Sea (1 Cor. 10:1, 2), a symbolic washing on the way to the Promised Land. We, too, must be baptized by water and the Spirit if we hope to enter the kingdom of heaven (John 3:5).

Upon entering the Holy Place, the first “room” in the sanctuary, one would see the table of showbread (Exod. 25:23–30), a symbol of the Word of God that we must live by every day (Matt. 4:4). The Holy Place also held the golden lampstand with its seven candlesticks (Exod. 25:31–40), which symbolized the light of truth shared by God’s people through the power of the Holy Spirit (Zech. 4:2–6). Closest to the Most Holy Place, the most sacred space in the tabernacle, was the altar of incense (Exod. 30:1–10), representing the intercession of Christ that mingles with the prayers of God’s people (Eph. 5:1; Rev. 8:3). The smoke from the burning incense would drift into the Most Holy Place—into the very presence of God.

Finally, the Most Holy Place housed the ark of the covenant, which contained the sacred law of God—the stone tablets on which God wrote the Ten Commandments (Exod. 34:1). The mercy seat, over which God’s presence dwelled (like a throne), covered these tablets. Those who cultivate a loving relationship with God will be commandment keepers who obtain mercy from Him when they come to Him in repentance.

Notice that every item in the sanctuary represents an aspect of worshiping God—accepting Jesus’ sacrifice, cleansing, ingesting the Word of God, sharing the light of truth, prayer, and keeping the commandments. When God gave the sanctuary, He gave a blueprint for how sinners can be reconciled with God and build a close relationship with Him.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Which piece of sanctuary furniture symbolizes something you want to strengthen in your life? What are some ways you can begin?`