---
title:  Finding Healing in Worship
date:   23/04/2025
---

### inVite

There’s a sanctuary I love to visit. I don’t get to go often enough, but when I do, time seems to stand still. All seems right with the world. I get to eat my favorite foods, and everyone there loves me. They’re glad to see me whenever I’m there, and they’re always sad to see me leave. This special place is wherever my parents are. Location doesn’t matter; if I can get to them, that place magically transforms into a sanctuary—and it isn’t long before the blessings of the sanctuary begin to flow!

The word sanctuary has many meanings, one of which is to describe a place of refuge. For example, a wildlife sanctuary protects the natural habitat from the threats of human civilization and preserves its native beauty. Hunting is completely off limits in a wildlife sanctuary; the wild animals there dwell in safety. God’s sanctuary is also a place of refuge, but it’s more than just that; it’s a place dedicated to worship, a place set aside for devotion. God wanted Israel to build a sanctuary of safety, worship, and close communion with Him.

Worshiping God has marvelous protective effects. Research has shown that prayer can significantly improve symptoms of depression and anxiety.  Those who regularly attend worship services have lower mortality rates and reduced levels of depression.  If you want to keep your brain in good running shape or if you’re feeling anxious or stressed, spend some time in worship and prayer. Studies show that worship decreases our fight-or-flight response, thereby reducing our heart rate, blood pressure, glucose levels, depression, anxiety, and chronic pain.  Don’t you feel like worshiping right now?

My friend, God designed us for worship. Even after the ravages of sin, God has a prescription to help us keep our minds when everyone else is losing theirs. He has a way to help us live abundantly while working with Him to rescue others. God built a sanctuary, and so must we. Set a time to meet with God. The place you choose may not always be the same, but one thing is sure: when you enter God’s presence, He will meet you there, and that place will become your sanctuary—a place of protection, healing, and blessing.

### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 25 again and look for Jesus.`

`Where and how do you find refuge from the pressures of the world?`

`How did you see Jesus differently or see Him again during this week’s study?`

`Prayer Response:`