---
title:  Further Thought
date:  28/03/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Least of These My Brethren,” pp. 637–641, in The Desire of Ages.

“Those who minister to others will be ministered unto by the Chief Shepherd. They themselves will drink of the living water, and will be satisfied. They will not be longing for exciting amusements, or for some change in their lives. The great topic of interest will be, how to save the souls that are ready to perish. Social intercourse will be profitable. The love of the Redeemer will draw hearts together in unity.

“When we realize that we are workers together with God, His promises will not be spoken with indifference. They will burn in our hearts, and kindle upon our lips. To Moses, when called to minister to an ignorant, undisciplined, and rebellious people, God gave the promise, ‘My presence shall go with thee, and I will give thee rest.’ And He said, ‘Certainly I will be with thee.’ Ex. 33:14; 3:12. This promise is to all who labor in Christ's stead for His afflicted and suffering ones.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 641.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read 1 Corinthians 13:4–8. How does 1 Corinthians 13 shed light on the kind of people we ought to be?`

`What separates the sheep from the goats in Matthew 25:31–46? How can we understand what Jesus says here in a way that does not teach salvation by works?`

`What does it mean to you that “when we love the world as He has loved it, then for us His mission is accomplished. We are fitted for heaven; for we have heaven in our hearts” (see Thursday’s study)? What does this reveal about the nature of God and the nature of heaven itself? How can we live more like citizens of heaven here in this respect, relative to spreading God’s love in a way that brings light and justice to the oppressed?`

`What practical steps should be taken in your local church to reflect God’s concern for love and justice in your local com­munity? What are you doing well in your community? What do you need to improve and focus on more? What tangible steps can you take individually and collectively to act on what we have studied about God’s love and justice?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

That I May Know Him, “God’s Law in the Heart,” p. 299;\
In Heavenly Places, “A Relationship of Interdependence,” p. 287.