---
title:  The End of God’s Saving Work
date:   23/12/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Revelation 1:1–7; Revelation 14:6–12; 1 John 4:8; 2 Corinthians 11:2; Revelation 21:1–4.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Since [because] all these things are to be destroyed in this way, you should think about the kind [type] of life you are living. It [your life] should be holy and God-like [serving and respecting God]. You should look for the day of God to come. You should do what you can to make it come soon. At that time the heavens [skies] will be destroyed by fire. And the sun and moon and stars will melt away with much heat” (2 Peter 3:11, 12, NLV).

The book of Revelation shows us what will happen in the end times. This book tells us about the worldwide war between God and Satan. Satan lost his legal control over the earth. Now he attacks the people who are loyal to God. The book of Revelation also shows us Jesus’ second coming. At that time, Jesus will save His people, both the living and all the people who lived and died after Adam and Eve sinned. The book of Revelation shows us, too, that God will destroy Satan, his evil angels, and evil people with fire. Then Jesus will start His everlasting kingdom on the new earth.

In this final lesson, we will see that Revelation is more than a book about what will happen in the end times. The book of Revelation is about a God who wants us to help Him save people. God commands His church to announce the Three Angels’ Messages to everyone on earth. These messages are present truth. Present truth is the truth we need most for our time.