---
title:  God’s End-Time Work In The Book Of Revelation
date:   24/12/2023
---

The opening verses of the book of Revelation show the reader that this book is about God’s end-time work.

`Read Revelation 1:1–7. What proof do you see in these verses that Revelation is about God’s work to save people during the end times?`

The first verses of the book of Revelation show us that Jesus is the reason for God’s saving mercy. In Revelation 1:4, 5, we read about all three Members in the Godhead: God the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Together, They work to save humans. The Father is the everlasting One “who is, who always was, and who is coming” (Revelation 1:4, ERV). Next, the Holy Spirit is named. Then John tells us about Jesus. “Jesus is the faithful [dependable; the One we can trust] witness. He is first among all who will be raised [wake up] from death” (Revelation 1:5, ERV). John now tells us that Jesus is the legal owner of planet Earth. Satan tried to set up his kingdom on this earth. His plan failed. John also tells us that Jesus’ blood makes us clean from guilt and shame.

`Read Revelation 1:6 and 1 Peter 2:9. In these verses, what do the names for the saved mean?`

God’s saving plan includes more than forgiveness and saving us from sin. God wants to make us new people, with new hearts and lives. God wants to live in our hearts. Then we will be holy as He is holy. God’s saved people will become kings. Jesus spilled His blood for us. His blood makes us part of God’s family. Because we are part of God’s family, we are now the children of the King who controls everything in heaven and on earth. As royal family members, we join the Royal Family in heaven in Their work to save people on this planet.

In Revelation 1:7, we learn Jesus will come soon. The people on earth will cry when they learn, too late, that they are lost. God wants to save them before it’s too late. So, the book of Revelation opens with God’s saving plan.

`God made us and saved us. Why does this Bible truth give you hope?`