---
title:  The Three Angels’ Messages
date:   25/12/2023
---

The book of Revelation shows us the worldwide war between God and Satan. Revelation 12:12 shows us this Bible truth in a powerful way. John hears a loud voice announce from heaven: “ ‘So be happy, you heavens [the place where God lives] and all who live there! But it will be terrible for the earth and the sea, because the devil has come down to you! He is filled with anger. He knows that he does not have much time’ ” (Revelation 12:12, ICB).

`Read Revelation 14:6–12. What part do these verses have in our work as a church? How are they connected with the Good News about Jesus?`

The most important part of God’s work is the Good News about Jesus. The message is the work. Everyone on earth needs to hear this message. They need to be warned about what is going to happen. Every person on earth who hears these messages will need to make a final choice: a choice for life or for death.

`Jesus said, “ ‘If anyone is not with me, he is against me. He who does not work with me is working against me’ ” (Luke 11:23, ICB). What does Jesus mean? What is the connection between this Bible truth and our church’s work?`

God gave the Seventh-day Adventist Church important work. We must announce the Three Angels’ Messages in Revelation 14 to everyone on earth. We must invite people to accept the Good News about Jesus (Revelation 14:6) and to worship God because He made us. Everyone will see that God’s end-time people do both things: they live the Good News and they worship God. God’s end-time people will be very patient. They will obey all of His commandments. They will have “the faith of [that comes from] Jesus” (Revelation 14:12, KJV). In all the work we do for God, we always must remember that we must warn the people on this earth about end-time happenings. We must give them the Three Angels’ Messages. We must announce the hope that is in the Good News that continues forever.

`“ ‘If anyone is not with me, he is against me’ ” (Luke 11:23, ICB). Read Jesus’ words and look into your heart. Ask yourself, where am I with God? Am I with Him?`