---
title:  The Final Test
date:   26/12/2023
---

Before Jesus went back to heaven, He gave His followers His Important Command: “ ‘So go and make followers of all people in the world [on the earth]. Baptize them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teach them to obey everything that I have told you to do. You can be sure that I will be with you always. I will continue with you until the end of time’ ” (Matthew 28:19, 20, ERV). Today, the Three Angels’ Messages also must be preached to all the people on the earth. These messages are present truth. Present truth is the Bible truth that we need most for our time.

`Why does God care about everyone? Read 1 John 4:8; 2 Peter 3:9; 1 Timothy 2:4; and Genesis 12:3 for the answer.`

Jesus loves everyone. Some Bible thinkers teach that Jesus died only for a special few. The Bible tells us that Jesus died for all people. If you are a human, Jesus died for you. The only question is, Do you accept, or reject, what Jesus did for you?

When Jesus comes back, only two groups of people will be alive on the earth: (1) people who honor Satan and the religious powers and governments he controls (Revelation 13 and 17), and (2) people who honor Jesus and keep His commandments (Revelation 14:12).

Since the beginning of human history, God has shown humans who He is. God gave people proof of His love (Romans 1:18–21). So, God will judge everyone from the past on how they worked with God and lived their lives. God will not judge them for what they didn’t understand or know about Him (Romans 2:11–16).

In these end times, people are dividing more and more into the two groups we talked about. Soon, people will not respect the freedom of other people to believe what they want to believe. People will be pressured to join Satan’s party. So, we need to share the Good News about Jesus so that everyone will know about Satan’s evil plans and about God’s mercy. That’s what the Three Angels’ Messages are all about.

`Jesus died for you. Is there anything you’ve done that He can’t forgive? Explain why His death is enough to pay for your sins.`