---
title:  Success In God’s Work
date:   27/12/2023
---

How do we have success in our work for God? Some people say that success is the number of people you baptize. Other people may say that success is building big churches or a church that grows fast and has lots of members. Or maybe we think that success means sharing the Good News with people everywhere on earth. All of these ideas are good. At the same time, we must remember what Paul wrote to the church in Corinth: “I planted the seed and Apollos watered it. But God is the one who made the seed grow” (1 Corinthians 3:6, ERV). Our job is to do the work. God will bless our efforts. He is the One in charge.

We already saw that God wants to save lost people in every group on earth. God wants to make them loyal followers of Jesus who will work together with Him in His work to save more people.

**Read the following verses. What do they tell us about the people who became followers of Jesus?**

`2 Corinthians 11:2`

`Isaiah 30:21; John 10:27; John 16:12, 13`

`2 Thessalonians 2:9–11; Hebrews 3:12, 13; 1 John 1:8`

`1 John 1:9; Revelation 7:14; Revelation 19:8`

Jesus’ followers are loyal. They follow Jesus and His Holy Spirit in their lives. The Spirit teaches Christians to work with God to save people. We can trust Jesus’ followers. They don’t lie or pretend to be holy. They are holy. They are not fake Christians. Jesus’ followers don’t doubt the Bible or accept false teachings. They don’t break His law. They don’t behave as if they are better than other people. Yes, they understand they aren’t perfect. They know they need God’s mercy and forgiveness. So, they let God or other Christians correct them when they are wrong. When we behave this way, we will have success in God’s work.