---
title:  When Our Work Is Done
date:   28/12/2023
---

`Read Revelation 21:1–4 and Revelation 21:22–22:5. What picture of the future life do these verses show us?`

The new earth will be perfect and beautiful! Death and sin will be gone. Satan and sin will be destroyed. We will meet our loving Savior and see our loved ones again. The new earth will be filled with people from every different family group and people group who lived on the earth.

The General Conference has a special way of figuring out if a people group knows about the Good News. A people group that knows about Jesus has enough churches, Bibles, and other religious books in their own language. So, this group doesn’t need any outside help. This group also has religious church leaders who can share Jesus with people in their own language. So, they don’t need someone to translate their sermons for them.

A group that doesn’t know Jesus is one that doesn’t have enough Seventh-day Adventists in the area to share Bible truth. This group also doesn’t have enough Bibles or other religious materials. So, they need outside help.

Each local church must decide who the people groups are in their community. Then they need to ask, “Do these people know about Jesus?” We must use the time and money that we have now to share Bible truth with people. We can do our part to help Jesus come back soon. Then we can live forever in the new heaven and the new earth with the people we helped Jesus save.

`Task #1: What are you doing to help Jesus come back soon? Are you filling the hearts of people with hope? Are you sharing with them the Good News? Are you helping new Christians to learn what it means to live obedient and loyal lives for Jesus? Pray that Jesus will help you share the promise of the new earth with people on your daily prayer list.`

`Task #2: Some of your “followers” may be ready to accept Jesus. Maybe they’re ready to come to church for the first time. What experience will they have in your church? How ready is your church to welcome new people? Make a plan for welcoming visitors and share it with your church leaders. Work with your leaders to put the plan into action.`