---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   29/12/2023
---

“God’s saving plan allows Him to accept humans and give them His favor. We will get everything back that we lost because of sin. Humans are saved, and the earth is made new. Then the people that God saved will live on the earth forever. That is their reward because they were obedient to God. For 6,000 years, Satan has fought for control of this earth. Now God’s first reason for making this earth will finally happen: ‘God’s holy people will receive [get] the kingdom, and they will have the kingdom forever and ever’ [Daniel 7:18, ERV].”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 342, adapted.

Before Jesus can give us the kingdom, we need to work with God to save people. We need to warn everyone on earth so that each person will have a chance to accept God’s promise of a new life and a new earth to come.

“I want to see more workers helping God to save people who don’t know Bible truth for this time. Many people have learned about the Three Angels’ Messages and accepted them. Now, they should announce these messages to people everywhere on earth. I want to do my part and help other Christians share this Bible truth with people. May the Lord help us to put on His battle suit [Ephesians 6:10–18]. Christians must join together as one to give God’s final warning to everyone on earth.”—Ellen G. White, Letter 390, 1907 (not published), adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What is the Good News that continues forever? Why is this news everlasting? Why must this Good News be part of everything we as a church teach and share?`

`Why does our church believe that the Three Angels’ Messages are so important? What if someone said to you, “We need to talk only about Jesus and not about the warnings in the Three Angels’ Messages. These warnings are ‘too strong.’ People may feel bad and reject Jesus because of these messages”? How would you answer this person?`

`How has this quarter’s Bible study guide helped you better understand more about God’s work? How important is His work to save people? How has our study helped you better understand the part you and your church have in this plan?`