---
title:  Sabbath, Day of Freedoms
date:  14/07/2019
---

**Logos**: Exod. 16:16–26; 20:8–11; 25:1–11; Deut. 5:12–15; 15:1–11; Mark 3:1–6; Luke 6:6–11; 13:10–17; 14:1–6; John 5:1–18; 9:1–34

Historically, religious discourse over the Sabbath has focused on its legal and calendrical dimensions. But what relationship, if any, is there between the Sabbath and the themes raised in the work of social justice? This week, we’ll look particularly at what the Bible says about freedom and its connection to the Sabbath.

**The Sabbath, Day of Dignity**

Observed even after the fall of humanity, the Sabbath offers, in our sin-ridden world, a radical vision for society. The seventh-day Sabbath commandment, recorded in Exodus 20:8–11 and Deuteronomy 5:12–15, recognizes the day as one of rest for all. The Sabbath is not just for the believer or the citizens of just one country—or even just humans!

In the civil law revealed to Moses on Mount Sinai, God also granted a sabbatical year (shmita, in Hebrew) to the Israelites. Every seven years, they were to release fellow believers from debts owed, including releasing those who had indentured themselves because of their debt. God reassured Israelites with the promise that “the Lord your God will bless you” in the keeping of the shmita (Deut. 15:6, ESV).

Moreover, God commanded the children of Israel in this sabbatical year to allow their land to rest after six years of cultivation (Lev. 25:1–11). But how, then, were they supposed to eat in the Sabbath year? Amazingly, but expectedly, God promised that He would produce “a crop sufficient for three years” in the sixth year (Lev. 25:20, ESV). God promised abundantly greater than what the Israelites could expect: He provided food for the sixth year and the seventh year of rest as well as for the first year of the next seven-year cycle when new crops were being sown. In a similar manner, God provided a double portion of manna on the sixth day of the week to the journeying Israelites, since manna would not fall on the seventh-day Sabbath (Exod. 16:16–26).

The Sabbath offers freedom from the burdens of human toil. This divinely granted freedom compels us to recognize the dignity and humanity of all humankind— values that are diminishing in today’s world. Moreover, by keeping both the weekly Sabbath and the Sabbath year, God’s people acknowledged that everything ultimately comes from God, not from their own works. When we accept God’s divine power to provide by keeping the Sabbath, we safeguard against avarice and selfishness and the inhumanity that results.

**The Sabbath, Day of Identity**

As you may have gathered from the lesson so far, the Sabbath is more than a day marked by what we can and cannot do. Like no other day, it teaches us about both God’s desired relationship with us and His desired relationship for us with one another. Moreover, as a twofold memorial, it reminds us of our God-given identity.

The Sabbath is a memorial—or remembrance—of Creation and redemption. When we remember the Sabbath day, we remember that God is our Creator and our Redeemer (Exod. 20:11; Deut. 5:15). And when we know God’s relation to us, we come to know ourselves as He intended: created with a purpose and redeemed for service.

The Sabbath reminds us of the freedom that lies in knowing God’s identity in relation to us. The world is searching for the meaning of humanity and the meaning of existence. So much existential pain—and vast social consequences— come from not knowing the true answers to these questions.

On the seventh day, we remember our origins, our present condition, our redemption, and all that Christ is to us. The Sabbath reminds us that God furnishes our deepest ontological desires.

**The Sabbath, Day of Healing**

Throughout His ministry, Jesus dispelled long-perpetuated misconceptions about the Sabbath. In six of the seven miracles that He performed on the Sabbath—the healings of the lame man at the pool of Bethesda (John 5:1–13), the man with the shriveled hand (Mark 3:1–6; Luke 6:6–11), the woman with the eighteen-year disability (Luke 13:10–17), the man with dropsy (Luke 14:1–6), and the blind man (John 9:1–34)—the Jewish religious leaders accused Jesus of breaking the Sabbath. But by performing these miracles, Jesus revealed the true meaning of the Sabbath as a day for healing in Christ.

The Sabbath reminds us of the offer of freedom in Jesus in a world of sickness. He wants to set us free from our spiritual and physical ailments. He wants to set us free from the bondage of society that clouds the true meaning of His Word. He wants to free us from the tiring toll of sin.

**The Sabbath, Day of Freedom**

By remembering the seventh day as God commands, we recognize our ultimate dependence on Him alone for our spiritual, physical, social, and mental sustentation. The Sabbath is an experience of the true freedom that comes from trusting in the merits of Jesus alone to redeem us, sustain us, and teach us love for one another.

**React**

`1. Where in Scripture does the Sabbath offer freedom?`

`2. Now having studied a few aspects of the Sabbath as they pertain to social justice, why and how do you think the Sabbath is relevant in your culture and country, and more broadly, in our world today?`

---

_Michel Lee, Austin, Texas, USA_