---
title:  Sabbatical Principles for All Humankind
date:  15/07/2019
---

**Testimony**: Exod. 23:10, 11; Lev. 25:1, 11; John 5:1, 18

“Jesus stated to them that the work of relieving the afflicted was in harmony with the Sabbath law. It was in harmony with the work of God’s angels, who are ever descending and ascending between heaven and earth to minister to suffering humanity. Jesus declared, ‘My Father worketh hitherto, and I work.’ All days are God’s, in which to carry out His plans for the human race. If the Jews’ interpretation of the law was correct, then Jehovah was at fault, whose work has quickened and upheld every living thing since first He laid the foundations of the earth; then He who pronounced His work good, and instituted the Sabbath to commemorate its completion, must put a period to His labor, and stop the never-ending routine of the universe.”1

“God could not for a moment stay His hand, or man would faint and die. And man also has a work to perform on this day. The necessities of life must be attended to, the sick must be cared for, the wants of the needy must be supplied. He will not be held guiltless who neglects to relieve suffering on the Sabbath. God’s holy rest day was made for man, and acts of mercy are in perfect harmony with its intent. God does not desire His creatures to suffer an hour’s pain that may be relieved upon the Sabbath or any other day.”2

“Every seventh year special provision was made for the poor. The sabbatical year, as it was called, began at the end of the harvest. At the seedtime, which followed the ingathering, the people were not to sow; they should not dress the vineyard in the spring; and they must expect neither harvest nor vintage. Of that which the land produced spontaneously they might eat while fresh, but they were not to lay up any portion of it in their storehouses. The yield of this year was to be free for the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, and even for the creatures of the field. Exodus 23:10, 11; Leviticus 25:5.”3

**React**

`1. In music, harmony adds to melody and makes the song fuller and richer. How could “acts of mercy” done on the Sabbath add to our experience?`

`2. There is a clear relationship between Sabbath and acts of social justice. How can the principles of the sabbatical year be made part of our lives today?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 206.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 207.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 531.</sup>

_Oliver Bragg, Madison, New Hampshire, USA_