---
title:  "“Going to Church”: God’s Antidote for Gun Violence?"
date:  16/07/2019
---

**Evidence**: Isa. 58:10–14; 61:1, 2; Luke 4:17–19

One day at lunch, I asked my friend Chris, an atheist, what he thought the solution was to school shootings and gun violence across America. I was surprised when he said, “Church is the only thing I know of that can solve these problems. The problem with gun violence is that these troubled individuals begin to seclude themselves from their community. The solution is to build communities that reach out to people like this. Atheists have tried but have never mastered this notion of church.”

Chris’s statement challenged me to expand what it meant to “go to church on Sabbath.” For Chris, church was the ideal place for the lonely, addicts, troubled, marginalized, and those desperate to find rest and community. Could it be that God designed Sabbath, and all its gatherings, to be an antidote to the problems of society?

Chris reminded me of what Christ said when He went to church on Sabbath (see Luke 4:17–19; Isa. 61:1, 2). His statements echo Isaiah 58 on social justice, and His actions on earth mirrored Scripture (Mark 2:23–28; Luke 6:6–11; 13:11–17; 14:1–6; John 5:2–9).

My church has a potluck meal every Sabbath after the sermon. When I encounter the hungry during the week, I invite them to join us at our church for our potluck, where they can take leftovers afterward. Our church provides a program on Sabbath afternoons for immigrants who want to improve their conversational English. Many lonely people who just want to talk and be listened to also find community in these Sabbath afternoon events.

At the end of our lunch conversation, Chris told me, “As an atheist, I’ve often considered coming to church, purely because they are the best community builders that I know and what our society needs to overcome social problems of racism, classism, and gun violence.” As Christians, we shouldn’t be surprised. Chris is calling us what Isaiah prophesied Sabbath keepers would be called: “The repairer of the breach, the restorer of paths to dwell in” (Isa. 58:12).

**React**

`1. Ask your friends what they think the solutions are to specific problems in your community.`

`2. Pray about activities your church could sponsor on Sabbath afternoons that would care for the lonely, the marginalized, and the troubled.`

---

_Jonathan Wheeler, Stanford, California, USA_