---
title:  Make Sabbath Just Again
date:  17/07/2019
---

**How-to**: Ps. 92:5; Isa. 66:23; Luke 6:9

What does Sabbath freedom truly mean? Is it simply a day focused on ourselves? Or maybe a time of one-on-one communion with God? Sabbath, in fact, is a day set aside to show us how to live in harmony with the creation and, more important, with our Creator. What does this look like in real life? How can Sabbath show us what it means to love our fellow humans as Christ commanded us to love “the least of these” (Matt. 25:40, 45)?

Understand the purpose of Sabbath. To appreciate the practical meaning of Sabbath, we have to look as far back as Creation. The origin of Sabbath is all about rest—rest for people, animals, and even for the land (Lev. 25). When we understand it’s all about rest, we’ll find little ways to provide rest for the wonderful creation of God, whether human or not.

Find those around you who need a break. The Sabbath was intended for all humanity, not just those of one religion (Mark 2:27). After all, everyone needs rest. Do you know a young mother who never gets a break because she’s always taking care of her kids? Offer to take the children on a nature hike and let the mother have a break. Do you know someone who works on a farm and has to do some necessary labor on Sabbath morning like milking cows? Offer to lend a helping hand before heading off to church.

Worship with others who have a heart for God. While we may not always realize it, worship itself is a form of rest. It separates us from the daily activities of labor and connects our hearts and minds heavenward so that we may be renewed spiritually. As we sing, share, pray, and listen with fellow believers, we help each other lift the burdens of the week. As we unite at the foot of the cross, we lead our fellow believers to the place where Christ took the ultimate stress for us so that we could have an eternal Sabbath rest in Him.

Take care of yourself too. Sabbath rest is for everyone, including you. This means ensuring you keep yourself in good health. Get eight hours of sleep, eat a nutritious diet, and get outside in the fresh air and sunshine. Spending time in creation will help you renew your commitment to Sabbath freedom.

1. Make a list of practical ways you can relieve the burdens of those around you.

2. How can those of us Christians who know the Sabbath truth ensure we remember to apply it when it comes to caring for our fellow human beings?

---

_Jason Miller, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_