---
title:  A Gift Worth Sharing
date:  18/07/2019
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 12:11, 12

“Who among you wouldn’t rescue your donkey from a pit on the Sabbath day?” This question was posed by Jesus well over two thousand years ago (see Luke 14:5). Like the Pharisees, we are often shy about actively engaging in acts of mercy on the Sabbath. But Jesus shows us that on the Sabbath, more than on any other day, we are called to rescue His sheep.

Jesus delighted in performing acts of mercy and kindness on the Sabbath. It was on a Sabbath day that He healed the lame man at the pool of Bethesda (John 5), opened the eyes of a man born blind (John 9:14), delivered a woman who had been afflicted by a spirit for eighteen years (Luke 13:11–16), and restored a man’s withered hand (Matt. 12:9–13).

By lifting people out of suffering, sickness, and sin on the Sabbath, Jesus granted them rest from the things that ailed them and so shared the Sabbath with them in the truest sense. His highest and purest joy was to ensure that others could rest from their burdens on the Sabbath.

And if we think of Sabbath as a rest we can actively invite others to share in, service becomes foundational to our worship experience. Recognizing those around us as Jesus’ sheep, we cannot leave them lying in the pits of sin, pain, and suffering while we enjoy Sabbath in comfort. We will want them to enjoy the same rest that we do. By visiting the sick, comforting the mourning, and feeding the homeless, we invite them to rest from the heavy burdens they carry. This kind of service takes us out of ourselves and blesses us as much as it blesses others. Compassion, empathy, and mercy gladden the receiver as well as the giver. The “helper’s high” is real: giving truly does make us happy.1

Sabbath reminds us that God is our Creator and Redeemer and that everything we have is a gift from Him. But His blessings are given so that we can be a blessing to others. The Sabbath is one of His greatest gifts; why not share it?

**React**

`1. Why are acts of kindness on the Sabbath that much more special?`

`2. In what practical ways can you, your family, and your church extend the Sabbath rest to your community?`

---

<sup>1. Sander van der Linden, “The Helper’s High: Why It Feels So Good to Give,” OdeWire.com, December 2011, 26, 27.</sup>

_Thando Malambo Amankwah, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada_