---
title:  "Sabbath: Made for Man"
date:  19/07/2019
---

**Exploration**: Mark 2:27

**Conclude**

In this week’s lesson, we have learned about the Sabbath and some ways in which we can keep and enjoy the many freedoms of the Sabbath. As we stop to take relief from our busy lives and to worship on the Sabbath, we are reminded that the Sabbath commemorates Creation and affirms God as Creator of the earth.

In Mark 2:27, Jesus says, “The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath.” Christ reminds us that the Sabbath isn’t just a weekly ritual filled with liturgy or one more thing we have to do at the end of the week. Rather, He has given us the freedom to understand and celebrate the Sabbath in its multifaceted biblical depth and beauty.

**Consider**

- Helping someone prepare for the Sabbath. For example, if you have a roommate who doesn’t observe the Sabbath, as you prepare for Sabbath, clean up not only your space but also that of your roommate’s so that he or she can experience rest on the Sabbath.
- Inviting your friends to worship with you on Sabbath.
- Spending the Sabbath in nature alone or with friends and worshiping God through the natural beauties of creation.
- Taking some time on Sabbath to volunteer and provide services to the weak and needy within your community. Remember, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.
- Creating an activity that illustrates to others the importance of the Sabbath.
- Sharing a testimony of how keeping the Sabbath has been a blessing to you.


**Connect**

Mark 2; 3; Luke 6.

Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chap. 29, “The Sabbath”; Testimonies for the Church, vol. 1, chap. 91, “Proper Observance of the Sabbath.”

---

_Lucien Nana Yobo, Houston, Texas, USA_