---
title:  Lessons From the Past
date:   02/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 78; Psalm 105; Galatians 3:29; Psalm 106; Psalm 80; Numbers 6:22-27; Psalm 135.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “We have heard the story, and we know it well. Our fathers told it to us. And we will not forget it. Our people will be telling this story to the last [final] generation [people who live after us]. We will all praise the Lord and tell about the amazing [wonderful] things he did” (Psalm 78:3, 4, ERV).

The book of Psalms is filled with poems that praise the Lord and His mighty acts. These poems talk about Israel’s history. These poems teach us about the things that God did in the past to save His people. These poems are named the history poems. Some of the history poems tell God’s people to learn from the mistakes that their fathers made in the past. Some of the history poems are hymns. These hymns talk about the wonderful things God did for His people to make their faith strong in Him.

The history poems help us understand that our lives are part of Israel’s history. Israel’s history in the Bible is also our history. God adopted us into His family. Because of Jesus, God made us part of the people of Israel (Romans 8:15; Romans 9:24-26; Galatians 4:6, 7). So, the history about the Israelite people in the Bible is also the story about our own spiritual history. We must learn from their past, too. As God’s people, we have a part in His plan in the worldwide war between good and evil, just as the Israelites did in Old Testament times.