---
title:  God Always Keeps His Promises
date:   03/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 78. In this poem, the poet Asaph talks about three experiences that happened in Israel’s past. What were they? What lessons do these experiences teach us?`

Asaph reviews Israel’s past. History shows us that God keeps His promises. But the people break their promises to God. The people should learn from the mistakes of the past. They should teach their children to trust God and have faith in His promises. Asaph’s poem is the same as a picture story (Psalm 78:2). Jesus used picture stories to teach important Bible truth to His followers (Matthew 13:34, 35). In the same way, Asaph wants his poem to teach the Israelites important spiritual lessons.

The poem talks about the time of the Exodus (Psalm 78:9-54). The Exodus was the time when God saved His people from the Egyptians. The poem also talks about the time when God led His people to the Promised Land (Psalm 78:55-64) and the time of King David (Psalm 78:65-72). God did many mighty acts for His people during these times. But the people broke their promise with God. Israel’s history shows us, again and again, that the people refused to trust God. Israel trusted false gods and worshiped them (Psalm 78:58).

Asaph wants his people to understand why their fathers rejected God in the past. Their fathers forgot everything God did for them. They didn’t trust God. They gave God tests (Psalm 78:18, 41, 56). They fought against Him. They failed to keep His law, His promise, and His rules (Psalm 78:10, 37, 56). Asaph shows from history that the reason that Israel rejected God was because they failed to trust the Lord (Psalm 78:7, 8).

When we read Psalm 78, we may get upset with the people. We may ask ourselves, “Why are they so stubborn? Why don’t they learn from the mistakes of the past?” Before we judge the Israelites, we should think about ourselves. How often do we forget the wonderful things God did for us in the past? How often do we forget to do the things God asks? Psalm 78 teaches us that we must not trust in ourselves. We must trust in God and His mercy. When Israel fought battles in their own strength, without God’s help, they lost (Psalm 78:9, 62-64). We must trust in God first or we will fail in the end in everything we do.

`What lessons have you learned from your past mistakes?`