---
title:  Remembering Our History
date:   04/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 105. What time in history does Psalm 105 talk about? What lessons do these experiences teach us?`

Psalm 105 talks about God’s promise with His people. God promised to give the Promised Land to Abraham and his future children. God made the same promise to Isaac and Jacob. Then God kept the promise to Joseph, Moses, and Aaron, and Joshua. God gave His people the land of Canaan. Psalm 105 gives hope to God’s people in all times. God’s wonderful works in the past help us to understand that His love for us never changes. So, we can trust in God’s love for us forever (Psalm 105:1-5, 7, 8).

Psalm 105 shows all the wonderful things God did in the past to help His people. (As we saw yesterday, Psalm 78 did the same thing.) God’s wonderful works help us to praise God and trust in Him. Psalm 105 is different from Psalm 78 because it doesn’t talk about the people’s past mistakes. That’s because Psalm 78 was written for a different reason.

In Psalm 105, we learn about Israel’s history in the lives of its first fathers: Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and other early leaders. These men were patient during hard times. They obeyed God. God rewarded their obedience. So, Psalm 105 invites people to follow the example of the first fathers of Israel. We must have faith and trust in God. We must wait on Him to save us.

Psalm 105 is also a hymn (Psalm 105:1-7) that teaches us an important Bible truth: if we want to praise God fully, we must know about our history. When we know our history, our faith will grow strong. Knowledge about our past gives us many reasons to praise God.

In Psalm 105, the poet names God’s people the children of Abraham and Jacob (Psalm 105:6). These names show us that Israel became a people because God kept His promise to Abraham (Genesis 15:3-6). The poet reminds the people that the whole earth is under the control of the Lord their God (Psalm 96:1; Psalm 97:1). This all-powerful God loves all people the same as He loves His people Israel.

Psalm 105 is an invitation to everyone in every age to trust in the Lord.

`How are we, as Seventh-day Adventists, the children of Abraham? (Read Galatians 3:29 for the answer.) What lessons do we learn from Israel’s history?`