---
title:  Confessing Our Sins
date:   05/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 106. What things from Israel’s past does this poem talk about? What lessons do these things teach us?`

Psalm 106 talks about important experiences in Israel’s history. These past experiences include Israel’s leaving Egypt, traveling in the desert, and living in the Promised Land. Psalm 106 talks about the awful sins that the Israelites did in the past. God punished His people for these sins. He allowed the Babylonians to take His people to Babylon. So, we believe that Psalm 106 was written either when the Israelites were prisoners in Babylon or after they came back home.

In Psalm 106, the poet tells God’s people about their past and the lessons they should have learned from their own history. Psalm 106 says that God keeps His promise. Because of His promise and His mercy, God saved His people in the past (Psalm 106:45). The poet hopes that God will again give blessings to His people who have confessed their sins. God’s people are living in foreign lands. The poet prays that God will bring His people home again (Psalm 106:47). The poet’s prayer of faith comes from his trust in God. The poet trusts God to save His people now because He saved them in the past (Psalm 106:1-3). The poet also trusts in God’s love for His people. The poet knows that the Lord always keeps His promise.

When the people remember their history, they confess their sins. They understand that they were not better than their fathers were in the past. The people know that they are really worse than their fathers were. Why? Because the people know that the Babylonians took their fathers away when they sinned, and the people sinned anyway. God was very patient with His people. He showed them mercy and saved them. We also know what happened in the past. We know about God’s love and His saving mercy. He gave Jesus to us to show us these things. So, we have no excuse for forgetting God.

Psalm 106 is good news. God’s love always wins in the end (Psalm 106:8-10, 30, 43-46). Our sin is no match for God or His strength!

`Psalm 106:13 says: “But they quickly [soon] forgot about what he did. They did not listen to his advice” (ERV). Why is it so easy for us to do the same thing?`