---
title:  The Picture Story About The Lord’s Vine
date:   06/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 80. What does this poem compare God’s people to? What do the people ask God for?`

In Psalm 80, the poet compares God’s people to a garden of grapes. God dug up the garden of grapes with all its roots. Then He carried the garden to the Promised Land where He planted it. The word picture of a grape garden shows us God’s special care for Israel (also read Genesis 49:11, 12, 22; Deuteronomy 7:7-11).

In Psalm 80, God is angry with His grape garden (Psalm 80:12). God’s special messengers announce that God will destroy His grape garden because the vine changed and became evil (Isaiah 5:1-7; Jeremiah 2:21).

In Psalm 80, the poet accepts that God must judge His people. At the same time, the poet is confused. He knows that God can forgive. So, the poet has a hard time understanding why God refuses to stop His people’s pain. The poet fears that God’s anger may win over His mercy. If that happens, Israel will die, the same as the vine (Psalm 80:16).

`Read about the blessing in Numbers 6:22-27. How does the poet talk about this same blessing in Psalm 80?`

Psalm 80 helps us remember Aaron’s promise to Israel that God will always bless them (Numbers 6:22-27). This promise shows us the poet’s hope that God’s mercy will save His people from their suffering: “God, accept us again. Smile down on us and save us!” (Psalm 80:3, ERV; also read Psalm 80:7, 19).

The word “accept” means that God is inviting His people who have wandered away to come back to Him. This word also is connected with the idea of confessing our sins. When we confess our sins, we stop sinning and come back to God. The Lord explains to Jeremiah about what happens when His people come back to Him: “ ‘I will make them want to know me. They will know that I am the Lord. They will be my people, and I will be their God. I will do this because the prisoners in Babylon will turn to me with their whole hearts’ ” (Jeremiah 24:7, ERV).

`In the past, did you feel close to God in your heart after you confessed your sin? How did saying no to sin make you feel close to God in your heart?`