---
title:  The Lord Controls History
date:   07/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 135. What things in the past does Psalm 135 talk about? What lessons can we learn from them?`

Psalm 135 asks God’s people to praise the Lord. The Lord is good. We see His love in everything He made (Psalm 135:6, 7). Israel’s past history also shows us that God is good. He saved His people from the Egyptians (Psalm 135:8, 9). He gave His people the Promised Land (Psalm 135:10-12).

The Lord showed His mercy when He chose the people of Israel to be His people. They became His special treasure (Psalm 135:4). The people had a special relationship with God (Deuteronomy 7:6-11; 1 Peter 2:9, 10). God chose Israel because He loved them, not because they were special. So, Israel can’t brag about being better than any other people. Psalm 135:6, 7 shows us that God’s plan to save the human family didn’t start with Israel. God’s saving plan started when He made the skies and the earth. So, Israel should have no pride in their hearts about being God’s special people at all. Israel should work with God and do whatever He asks them to do to save other people.

Psalm 135 also talks about how God will judge His people. At the same time, God will show His people mercy (Psalm 135:14). As Judge, God will save the poor and the needy (Psalm 9:4; Psalm 7:8; Psalm 54:1). God will help His people (Deuteronomy 32:36). Psalm 135 helps God’s people to trust in the Lord and His promise.

The poet compares the Lord to false gods. The false gods are nothing. They are not powerful. But the Lord is in control of the earth (Psalm 135:15-18). Psalm 135 helps us understand that we should praise God because He is One who made us, and He is our Savior. We see this same Bible truth about the Lord in the fourth commandment (Exodus 20:8-11; Deuteronomy 5:12-15). No one is as powerful as God. He controls both the earth and all human history. So, God’s people should always trust in Him and worship only Him. Because Jesus is the One who made us and is our Savior, He is the One we should worship. If we worship anyone or anything else, we are guilty of bowing down to false gods.

`Why is it easy to worship false gods? How can we make sure that we don’t have false gods in our lives?`