---
title:  Additional thought
date:   08/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Acts 7 and Hebrews 11. What do these chapters teach us about God’s leading His people?

“We have nothing to fear about the future if we remember the way the Lord led us in the past. We also must remember His teaching in our past history.”—Ellen G. White, _Life Sketches of Ellen G. White_, page 196, adapted.

God’s people must know their history. Then they move forward in God’s work and serve Him without any fear. Ellen G. White tells Christians to read Psalm 105 and Psalm 106 “at least once every week.”—_Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers_, page 98.

The history of God’s people shows us that God will keep every promise He has made in the Bible. He will keep His promise to take care of each one of us. He will keep His promise to come again. Then He will start His kingdom of peace. He will make the earth new again.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why must we remember all the wonderful things God did for us in the past? What happens when we forget? Or what happens when we pay no attention to the lessons about the past? God chose Seventh-day Adventists to do the work that He asked Israel to do in Bible times. How can remembering our past history help us to do the work God gave us as a church to do?`

`How does the Book of Psalms help us to see God’s special care for us in our lives? God is in control of history and of this earth. Sure, we may not always understand why things happen the way they do. But how does understanding God’s love for us help us to be patient during hard times and to trust in God?`

`How can we make the study of Israelite history an important part of both our personal worship and of our worship in church? Why is it important to tell our children about our own church history? Why should all Seventh-day Adventists know the history of their church?`