---
title:  Wanting Too Much
date:   25/02/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Isaiah 14:12–14; Joshua 7; John 12:1–8; Acts 5:1–11; 1 Corinthians 10:13.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Then he said to them, ‘Watch out! Be on your guard against wanting to have more and more things. Life is not made up of how much a person has’ ” (Luke 12:15, NIrV).

The Bible warns us not to want too much or to want things that already belong to someone else. This sin is as bad as lying, stealing, and killing. God warns us in His law: “ ‘You must not want to take your neighbor’s house.You must not want his wife. . . .You must not want to take anything that belongs to another person’ ” (Exodus 20:17, ERV).

Wanting too many things is a sin. Having pleasure in too much stuff will stop people from entering heaven. that will keep us out of God’s kingdom. “Surely [for sure] you know that people who do wrong will not get to enjoy God’s kingdom. Don’t be fooled [tricked]. These are the people who will not get to enjoy his kingdom: those [people] who sin sexually [do sex sins], those [people] who worship idols [statues of false gods], those [people] who commit [do] adultery [sex outside of marriage], men who let other men use them for sex or who have sex with other men, those [people] who steal, those [people] who are greedy [want too much], those [people] who drink too much, those [people] who abuse [hurt] others [people] with insults, and those who cheat” (1 Corinthians 6:9, 10, ERV).

This week we will learn that wanting too much stuff is bad. We will see how we can stop letting this selfish sin control us.