---
title:  The First Sin
date:   26/02/2023
---

People often wonder, “What made sin happen? How did sin start?” The Bible helps us understand how sin started. Sin started because Lucifer wanted too much. He wanted more power and honor. He wanted the things that belonged only to Jesus. So, maybe we can say that wanting too much was the first sin.

`Read about Lucifer in Isaiah 14:12–14. What do these verses tell us about Lucifer’s sin? Did Lucifer want too much? If yes, what did he want? How did his wanting too much cause him to sin?`

“God honored Lucifer above all the angels in heaven. Lucifer was the prince of angels. But Lucifer was not happy with the things he had. Lucifer wanted more. He wanted to be worshiped the same as Jesus. Lucifer didn’t encourage the other angels to love God and be loyal to Him. Lucifer wanted for himself the honor and praise that God gave to Jesus. Lucifer also wanted control over all the things that belonged only to Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 35, adapted.

`Read Ephesians 5:5 and Colossians 3:5. In these verses, what does Paul say about wanting too much?`

Paul says that wanting more than God gives us is the same as the sin of worshiping false gods. Worshiping false gods is the same as loving something more than God. We worship false gods when we love the things that God made more than the God who made them (Romans 1:25). So, we must not want something that we shouldn’t have. We should not want something so badly that our getting it becomes more important than serving God.

Lucifer may not have known that his wish for wrong would cause problems. The same danger can happen to us. We must be sure to obey God’s 10th commandment: “ ‘ You must not want to take anything that belongs to another person’ ” (Exodus 20:17, ERV). This commandment is the only one about controlling our thoughts. Obeying this commandment can stop us from breaking the other commandments. (Read 2 Samuel 11.)

`Read 1 Timothy 6:6, 7 and Philippians 4:11, 12. How can these verses help us say no to the sin of wanting too much?`