---
title:  Achan’s Sin
date:   27/02/2023
---

Israel traveled in the desert for 40 years. Finally, they were ready to enter the Promised Land. God did a powerful miracle so that the Israelites crossed the Jordan River on dry land. The miracle happened during the time when the Jordan River was flooded (Joshua 3:15)! This miracle was powerful proof of God’s favor. The kings of Canaan heard about the miracle. The news made the kings too afraid to fight Israel (Joshua 2:9–11; Joshua 5:1).

Jericho was the first city that Israel marched against when they crossed the Jordan River. At first, the Israelites didn’t know how to win against the city of Jericho. Joshua also didn’t know what to do. So, he prayed. God answered his prayer. God showed Joshua a plan to destroy the city. The Israelites followed God’s plan. The plan was a big success. But then something bad happened.

`Read Joshua 7. As we see from this chapter, what happened after Israel won the battle against Jericho? What lesson does this story teach us?`

Achan’s sin was terrible. When he confessed his sin, he said that he “wanted” for himself the things he saw (Joshua 7:21). So, Achan took them. The word written as “wanted” comes from the Hebrew word “chmd.” “Chmd” can mean something good. But in Achan’s story, the word “chmd” means something bad. God already commanded His people not to take any forbidden thing from the people they fought (Joshua 6:18, 19). But Achan disobeyed God. Because of Achan’s sin, the Israelites failed to win against the city of Ai. Many Israelites died in battle. The Israelites failed to follow God’s plan.

`Maybe Achan said to himself, “Well, I’m not taking very much for myself at all. No one will know. My family really needs this money anyway.” Do we make the same excuses for sin? How can we keep from doing what Achan did?`