---
title:  The Heart of Judas
date:   28/02/2023
---

Judas’s story is one of the saddest stories in the Bible. Judas had been with Jesus during His work for God on earth. Judas learned Bible truth from Jesus Himself. Many people who have been given much less than Judas will be saved. But Judas, who had so much, will be lost.

What happened? The answer is that Judas wanted too much. He stole money. He wanted power and honor. He had a selfish heart.

`Read the story in John 12:1–8. What did Mary do that caused everyone at the feast to pay attention to her? What did Judas say? Why? What was Jesus’ answer?`

Jesus scolded Judas for his selfish words. So, Judas got upset and left the feast. Judas went to the palace of the top spiritual leader for the Jews. Jesus’ enemies were at the palace. Judas offered to sell Jesus into their hands for money. The money was a lot less than Mary’s gift. (Read Matthew 26:14–16.)

What happened to Judas? God gave him so many wonderful blessings. So, why would Judas do something so evil? Ellen G. White has this to say about Judas: “Judas loved Jesus, who was a Mighty Teacher. Judas loved to be with Jesus. Judas wanted to change his own heart. He wanted to change his life, too. Judas hoped that being with Jesus would change him. The Savior didn’t send away Judas. Jesus let Judas join His 12 followers. Jesus trusted Judas with special work. Jesus asked Judas to share the Good News with other people. Jesus gave Judas special power to heal the sick and cast out devils. But Judas never gave himself fully to Jesus.”—The Desire of Ages, page 717, adapted.

In the end, we are all sinners. If we give our lives to Jesus, we can win the fight against our sins. God’s strength will work in us. He will help us win the war against sin. But Judas didn’t give himself to Jesus fully. So, Judas lost the fight against sin. Then terrible things happened both to him and Jesus.

We all fight against the sin of wanting too much. Judas wanted money. This is a “heart” problem. This problem caused Judas to steal (John 12:6). Then Judas turned against Jesus Himself.

Judas’s story is a terrible lesson for us all. His story shows us the danger of wanting too much. A small sin can lead to disaster and everlasting loss.