---
title:  Ananias and Sapphira
date:   01/03/2023
---

Ananias and Sapphira were part of the New Testament church. Ananias and Sapphira saw the church grow. They saw the Holy Spirit work in the church, too, in a mighty way. The Bible tells us about the church and its members at this exciting time: “They all received [got] the things they needed. Everyone that owned fields or houses sold them. They brought the money and gave it to the apostles [teachers and leaders]. Then each person was given the things he needed” (Acts 4:34, 35, ICB).

Ananias and Sapphira were excited about all these wonderful things happening in the church. They wanted to be part of God’s work, too. So, they decided to sell some property and give the money to the church. So far, so good.

`Read the story in Acts 5:1–11. Ananias and Sapphira did two wrong things.They held back part of the money, and they lied. Why do you think Ananias and Sapphira got such a tough punishment?`

At first, we may think that Ananias and Sapphira really wanted to support God’s work. But “Ananias and Sapphira wanted too much. They allowed this sin to control them. Their behavior made the Holy Spirit sad. Soon, Ananias and Sapphira felt unhappy that they promised to give God all the money. They lost the blessing that came from wanting to do big things to support God’s work.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 72, adapted. In other words, Ananias and Sapphira started out wanting to do many good things. Their sin caused them to pretend to be good Christians on the outside. But inside, their hearts were selfish.

`“At that moment Sapphira fell down by his [Peter’s] feet and died. The young men came in and saw that she was dead. They carried her out and buried her beside her husband. The whole church and all the other people who heard about this were filled with fear” (Acts 5:10, 11, ERV). For sure, people must have been more careful about keeping these promises to God after that happened. What does this story teach us about selfishness? What can selfishness cause us to do?`