---
title:  How To Stop Wanting Too Much
date:   02/03/2023
---

As we saw, wanting too much is a sin that starts in our hearts. Often, we don’t know we have this problem. Why? Because the sin starts in our thoughts. How do you stop wrong thoughts? That’s a tough question.

`Read 1 Corinthians 10:13. What promise is in this verse? Why is this promise so important? How does this promise help free us from the sin of wanting too much?`

How can we protect ourselves against the sin of wanting too much? We must trust in God’s power to fight for us against this sin. God can help us to do three things:

_1. Decide to serve God, depend on Him, and be part of His family._ “ ‘Today you must decide who you will serve. . . . You must choose for yourselves. But as for me and my family, we will serve the Lord’ ” (Joshua 24:15, ERV).

_2. Pray daily._ Include Matthew 6:13 in your prayer: “ ‘Keep us from sinning when we are tempted [want to sin]. Save us from the evil one’ ” (NIrV). When you want something that you know you shouldn’t have, pray about it right away. Ask God to keep His Bible promises to you. (1 Corinthians 10:13 is a powerful Bible promise.) Also, ask God to give you His strength to win the fight.

_3. Study the Bible every day._ The psalm writer says, “I study your teachings very carefully so that I will not sin against you” (Psalm 119:11, ERV).

Jesus solved the sin problem. He offers us His strength to win the fight against sin. Prayer was Jesus’ secret weapon against sin. Sometimes Jesus spent whole nights praying to His Father. Jesus gave us an example of how to live. This example helps us understand how to fight against sin. Jesus makes it possible for us to obey Him in faith. When we obey God, Jesus will help us. “So you should look for the Lord before it is too late. You should call to him now, while he is near. Evil people should stop living evil lives. They should stop thinking bad thoughts. They should come to the Lord again, and he will comfort them. They should come to our God because he will freely forgive them” (Isaiah 55:6, 7, ERV).

`When and how did wanting too much hurt you? What lessons have you learned? What changes do you need to make?`