---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   03/03/2023
---

“Achan was the only man who dared to disobey God’s command. Achan wanted what did not belong to him. He got excited when he saw the expensive clothes from the land of Shinar. Later, even when Achan confessed his sin, he said the robe looks ‘beautiful’ [Joshua 7:21, ERV]. One sin led to another sin in Achan’s heart. Achan took the gold and silver which belonged to the Lord. Achan robbed God.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 496, adapted.

In 2 Timothy 3, Paul makes a list of the terrible sins that

people will do during the end times. The first two things

on Paul’s list are about our love for money and the things

we own. “Remember this: There are some terrible times

   Right before Jesus comes back, many people will have selfish hearts and love money too much.

Date

coming in the last days [end times]. People will love only themselves [their own selves] and money” (2 Timothy 3:1, 2, ERV). Right before Jesus comes back, many people will have selfish hearts and love money too much.

**Discussion questions**:

`Read 1 Timothy 6:6–10. In class, talk about examples of people who have loved money more than God. How has this sin caused them to suffer? How has their sin caused suffering in the lives of other people? We can think of many examples, right? Of course, we need money. But when does that need become a sin? How can we avoid falling into the trap that Paul warns about here?`

`We must be careful to avoid wanting too much money. What other things do we need to be careful about?`