---
title:  Practical Unity
date:  27/11/2018
---

In 1902, Ellen G. White wrote: “What Christ was in His life on this earth, that every Christian is to be. He is our example, not only in His spotless purity, but in His patience, gentleness, and winsomeness of disposition.”—Ellen G. White, in Signs of the Times, July 16, 1902. These words are reminiscent of Paul’s appeal to the Philippians: “Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus” (Phil. 2:5, NKJV).

`Read Ephesians 4:25-5:2 and Colossians 3:1-17, and then answer these two questions: In what areas of our lives in particular are we invited to show our allegiance to Jesus? How are we to be witnesses of the gospel of Jesus in our public lives?`

There are many other passages of Scripture that invite Christians to follow the example of Jesus and to be living witnesses of God’s grace to others. We also are invited to seek the welfare of others (Matt. 7:12); to bear each other’s burdens (Gal. 6:2); to live in simplicity and to focus on inward spirituality instead of outward display (Matt. 16:24-26; 1  Pet. 3:3, 4); and to follow healthful living practices (1 Cor. 10:31).

“Beloved, I beg you as sojourners and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul, having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles, that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may, by your good works which they observe, glorify God in the day of visitation” (1 Pet. 2:11, 12, NKJV). How often do we underestimate the impact of Christian character upon those who watch us? The patience manifested in moments of annoyance, a disciplined life in the midst of tension and conflicts, a gentle spirit in response to impatience and harsh words, are marks of the spirit of Jesus we are invited to emulate. As Seventh-day Adventists witness together in a world that misunderstands the character of God, we become a power for good and for God’s glory. As representatives of Christ, believers are to be known not only for their moral rectitude but also for their practical interest in the welfare of others. If our religious experience is genuine, it will reveal itself and have an impact in the world. A unified body of believers revealing the character of Christ to the world will, indeed, be a powerful witness.

`What kind of witness do you present to others? What would one find in your life that would make them want to follow Jesus?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Love for souls for whom Christ died means crucifixion of self. He who is a child of God should henceforth look upon himself as a link in the chain let down to save the world, one with Christ in His plan of mercy, going forth with Him to seek and save the lost. The Christian is ever to realize that he has consecrated himself to God, and that in character he is to reveal Christ to the world. The self-sacrifice, the sympathy, the love, manifested in the life of Christ are to reappear in the life of the worker for God.—_The Desire of Ages, _p. 417. 

Those who would have that wisdom which is from God must become fools in the sinful knowledge of this age, in order to be wise. They should shut their eyes, that they may see and learn no evil. They should close their ears, lest they hear that which is evil and obtain that knowledge which would stain their purity of thoughts and acts. And they should guard their tongues, lest they utter corrupt communications and guile be found in their mouths.—_The Adventist Home_, p. 404.

The power of a higher, purer, nobler life is our great need. The world has too much of our thought, and the kingdom of heaven too little. 

. . . Jesus is the source of power, the fountain of life. He brings us to His word, and from the tree of life presents to us leaves for the healing of sin-sick souls. He leads us to the throne of God, and puts into our mouth a prayer through which we are brought into close contact with Himself. In our behalf He sets in operation the all-powerful agencies of heaven. At every step we touch His living power. 

God fixes no limit to the advancement of those who desire to be “filled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding.” Through prayer, through watchfulness, through growth in knowledge and understanding, they are to be “strengthened with all might, according to His glorious power.” Thus they are prepared to work for others. It is the Saviour’s purpose that human beings, purified and sanctified, shall be His helping hand.—_The Acts of the Apostles_, p. 478. 

With hearts melted in tenderness let the word of truth be spoken. Let all who are in error be treated with the gentleness of Christ. If those for whom you labor do not immediately grasp the truth, do not censure, do not criticize or condemn. Remember that you are to represent Christ in His meekness and gentleness and love. . . . 

Let us not feel that we have heavy trials to bear, severe conflicts to endure, in representing unpopular truth. Think of Jesus and what He has suffered for you, and be silent. Even when abused and falsely accused, make no complaint; speak no word of murmuring; let no thought of reproach or discontent enter your mind. Take a straightforward course, “having your conversation honest among the Gentiles: that, whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation.” 1 Peter 2:12.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 6, p. 120.