---
title:  Unity Amid Diversity
date:  28/11/2018
---

In Romans 14 and 15, the apostle Paul addresses issues that deeply were dividing the church at Rome. His response to these issues was to invite the Romans to show tolerance and patience for one another and not divide the church over these concerns. What can we learn from his counsel?

`Read Romans 14:1-6. What issues of conscience were causing church members in Rome to judge and not fellowship with one another?`

It is very likely that these matters had to do with Jewish ceremonial impurity. According to Paul these were “disputes over doubtful things” (Rom. 14:1, NKJV), indicating that they were not matters of salvation but matters of opinion that should have been left up to individual consciences (see Rom. 14:5).

These disputes were first over the type of food eaten. Eating animals forbidden in Leviticus 11 was not the problem addressed by Paul here. There is no evidence that early Christians began eating pork or other unclean animals during Paul’s time, and we know that Peter did not eat any such food (see Acts 10:14). Also, that the weak ate only vegetables (Rom. 14:2) and that the controversy also involved beverages (Rom. 14:17, 21) indicate that the concern focuses on ceremonial impurity. This is further evident by the word unclean (koinos), used in Romans 14:14. That word is used in the ancient Greek translation of the Old Testament to refer to impure animals, not the unclean animals of Leviticus 11. Apparently there were some people in the Roman community who would not eat at fellowship meals because they were not convinced that the food was adequately prepared or had not been sacrificed to idols.

The same goes for the observation of some days. This did not refer to the weekly observance of the Sabbath, since we know Paul observed it regularly (Acts 13:14, 16:13, 17:2). This is likely a reference to the various Jewish feast days or fast days. Paul’s intent in these verses is to urge tolerance for those who are sincere and conscientious in the observance of these rituals as long as they did not think of them as a means of salvation. Unity among Christians manifests itself in patience and forbearance when we do not always agree on points, especially when they are not essential to our faith.

`In class, ask this question: Is there anything that we believe and practice as Seventh-day Adventists that all who claim to be Adventists need not believe and adhere to?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Lord has not laid the burden upon men to revive the mistakes and errors of the living or the dead. He would have His laborers present the truth for this time. Speak not of the errors of your brethren who are living, and be silent as to the mistakes of the dead. Let their mistakes and errors remain where God has put them—cast into the depths of the sea. The less that is said by those who profess to believe present truth in regard to the past mistakes and errors of the servants of God, the better it will be for their own souls, and for the souls of those whom Christ has purchased with His own blood.—_The Retirement Years,_ p. 27. 

In the gift of His Son for our redemption, God has shown how high a value He places upon every human soul, and He gives to no man liberty to speak contemptuously of another. We shall see faults and weaknesses in those about us, but God claims every soul as His property—His by creation, and doubly His as purchased by the precious blood of Christ. All were created in His image, and even the most degraded are to be treated with respect and tenderness. God will hold us accountable for even a word spoken in contempt of one soul for whom Christ laid down His life.—_Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, pp. 56, 57.

It is little things which test the character. It is the unpretending acts of daily self-denial, with cheerfulness and gentleness, that God smiles upon. We should not live for ourselves, but for others. We should be a blessing by our forgetfulness of self and our thoughtfulness of others. We should cherish love, forbearance, and fortitude.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 2, p. 647.

Those who really [love] the truth for the truth’s sake should [pursue] their course with the glory of God in view and let the light of truth shine out before all. . . . 

[Satan’s ire will] be kindled . . . against those who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus. But this should not [make] the faithful believers impatient or discouraged. These things should have . . . an influence to make the true believer more guarded, watchful, and prayerful—more tender, pitiful, and loving. . . . As Christ has borne, and continues to bear, with our errors, our ingratitude, and our feeble love, so should we bear with those who test and try our patience. Shall the followers of the self-denying, self-sacrificing Jesus be unlike their Lord? Christians should have hearts of kindness and forbearance.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 3, pp. 110, 111.