---
title:  Further Thought
date:  30/11/2018
---

Ellen G. White, “Unity in Diversity,” pp. 98-103, in Evangelism.

The following quote helps reveal how the early church, united in Christ, was able to maintain unity despite differences among them, and thus be a powerful witness to the world. “Within the church, Scripture illustrates how the Holy Spirit guided the early church in its decision-making process. This is done in at least three closely interconnected ways: revelations (e.g., the Spirit told the people what to do; Cornelius, Ananias, Philip; and perhaps the casting of lots), Scripture (the church reached a conclusion in which the Scripture was used), and consensus (the Spirit worked from within the community, almost imperceptibly, creating a consensus through dialogue and study, at the end of which the church realized that the Spirit was working within it). It appears that when faced with cultural, doctrinal, and theological controversies among the community of believers, the Holy Spirit worked through consensus in its decision-making process. In this process, we see the active role of the community of believers and not just its leaders, and the importance of prayer for discernment. The guidance of the Holy Spirit is sensed throughout the community’s understanding of the Word of God, the experience of the community and its needs, and through the experience of its leaders as they minister. Various church decisions were made through a process guided by the Holy Spirit in which Scripture, prayer, and experience were elements of theological reflection.”—Denis Fortin, “The Holy Spirit and the Church,” in Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, ed., Message, Mission, and Unity of the Church, pp. 321, 322.

**Discussion Questions**

`In class, go over your answer to Wednesday’s question about how we decide on which teachings and practices are essential for us as Seventh-day Adventists and which aren’t.`

`How are we to relate to Christians in other denominations who, as we do, believe in the death and resurrection of Jesus?`

**Summary**: The most convincing proof of unity is for brothers and sisters to love each other as Jesus did. The forgiveness of our sins and the salvation we share in common as Adventists are the best bonds of our fellowship. In Christ, we can thus show the world our unity and witness of our common faith. We are called to do nothing less.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Evangelism_, “Unity in Diversity,” pp. 98–103;

_The Acts of the Apostles_, “Written From Rome, pp. 477, 478.