---
title:  Heartbroken
date:   08/03/2025
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: 1 Thessalonians 4**

**Heartbroken**

One of the most difficult things I’ve ever had to go through was the death of my mother, who passed away at the age of 56. I was devastated, utterly heartbroken, and struggling in my faith. Yes, I was a pastor and was actively leading churches, but when this happened, my faith hit rock bottom. What made it worse were unhelpful comments from friends, family, and even fellow ministers. They meant well, offering words of “encouragement” such as, “You’ll see her again,” “God is so good for allowing her to go so quickly and without any pain,” and “Everything will be okay in time.” While all these statements may have been true, something about them felt dismissive. I didn’t want to wait to see her again; I wanted to see her now! God was good for allowing her to go quickly? Why did she have to go at all? Everything will be okay in time? Really? “That’s easy for you to say,” I thought. I didn’t want to hear any of it. I wanted to see and be with my mom. We never know how grief will impact us until we experience it firsthand. Since then, I’ve learned that silence is golden in moments of bitter sorrow. Sometimes just being present and not saying anything is the best help and support we can give.

This week, we will examine how God journeys with us through the valley of grief and loss. We’ll be focusing on the grief that accompanies death, but whether it’s losing a loved one, a job, our health, etc., we experience pain that affects our emotional and mental well-being. Loss is, most unfortunately, an unavoidable part of living in this broken, sinful world. Yet in our loss, Jesus desires to journey with us to bring us hope, peace, and even joy. It is indeed an arduous journey, but Jesus has promised that He will never abandon us or leave us to face the pain alone.

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

### inScribe

`Write out 1 Thessalonians 4 using the translation of your choice. If you are pressed for time, focus on verses 13–18. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.`