---
title:  Sorrowing with Hope
date:   09/03/2025
---

### inGest

Paul’s first letter to the church in Thessalonica offered words of comfort and hope to those who had experienced grief and loss. This young church was grieving the death of some of their members. Paul wanted to comfort them by anchoring their faith in the hope of Christ’s return.

From Paul’s letter, we learn that it’s okay to be sorrowful when we lose a loved one (1 Thess. 4:13). The apostle did not intend to strip away the sorrows of those who were grieving (which isn’t even possible). He understood that there is a time to mourn (Eccl. 3:4) and express grief (John 11:35). During these times of grief, you need only face one day at a time. Rather than looking to the distant future, wondering how you will cope alone in the coming days, months, and years, trust in Jesus to give you the strength for each day as it comes (Matt. 6:34; 2 Cor. 12:9). As you begin to heal, start to fill your life with meaningful activities again, even if you don’t particularly enjoy them in the moment. Taking up your hobbies and the responsibilities and obligations of daily life can help you heal and find purpose and enjoyment in living once more.

Even in our sorrow, we don’t need to lose hope! We can find hope in times of great loss when we recall that Jesus died, too. Even Christ, who achieved our eternal salvation, died. But He did not remain in the grave. The good news of the gospel is that Jesus is alive! His resurrection assures us that when He comes again, we will indeed be reunited with our loved ones (1 Thess. 4:17). This life is not the end of the story. Our loss is not final. The One who already broke the chains of death will do it again for all who have fallen asleep in Christ. God has given this message to comfort every believer (v. 18). Sometimes when we lay someone to rest, we may fret about whether they were ready to go, but we can always trust God with every person’s destiny, knowing that our loving Savior is a “good shepherd” toward all His sheep (John 10:11). He will do what is right and best in every case.

Death is painful because death is unnatural; it’s a curse. The Bible teaches that death is the last enemy to be destroyed (1 Cor. 15:26). It’s okay to hate death and wish it never happened; God does too. Death was never a part of God’s perfect plan. Satan is a destroyer and a murderer (John 8:44). He may succeed in delivering a blow to us, but Jesus will still gain the final victory. Christ came into this world to reverse the curse of sin and death (Gal. 3:13). With Him, death is not the end of the story. Jesus has prepared a place for us where death will never be allowed to enter (Rev. 21:4). We cannot escape the pain of death in this world, but we can place our faith and hope in a future where death will be forever behind us. That is the good news of Christ’s gospel.

`Go through 1 Thessalonians 4, find a verse that strikes you, and memorize it. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What can a person do to comfort someone who has lost a loved one?`

`How is it possible to be sorrowful and hopeful (a seeming contradiction) at the same time?`