---
title:  The Gift of Silence
date:   10/03/2025
---

### inTerpret

The Bible’s authors recognized the reality of death, dying, grief, and loss. However, understanding to what degree God is responsible for death can be a difficult question to grapple with. God certainly has the power to prevent death. The number of our days belongs to God.

When struggling with the sudden death of his children, Job’s submission to God’s will was complete: “The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord” (Job 1:21)—even though it was Satan who had “taken away.” Job refused to blame God or charge Him with wrong (v. 22). No one, not even his wife, could dissuade him from continuing to trust in God’s goodness despite the unexplainable tragedies he endured. “Though He slay me, yet will I trust Him,” Job declared (13:15). Through it all, Job never lost his faith in the hope of the resurrection (19:26). Job didn’t understand the spiritual battle happening behind the scenes (chaps. 1, 2), but He trusted God with the bigger picture and placed his future in God’s hands, even after he lost everything.

In the wake of his unprecedented loss, Job’s friends did right as long as they sat with him in silence (2:13). Being present in silence was the best gift they could give him. Like many of us who speak too soon or out of place, Job’s friends made a mistake as soon as they opened their mouths (42:7). Sometimes we try too hard to provide answers when we really have no answers. The deepest grief happens in silence. When we speak too soon, we cut short the person’s opportunity to process their grief on a level beyond words.

How we grieve is often different from how someone else grieves. We need to give others the space they need to mourn. As they do so, simply being there is often the best help we can give. When we’re present, we can be ready to listen and give the support they ask for—when they are ready. It’s not helpful to be so talkative that the grieving person has no time to reflect and think about their loss until they’re alone.

Cliché answers or even the usual, “It’s good she didn’t suffer long,” can sound trite and unsympathetic. We wish the person hadn’t suffered at all! More than that, we wish the person hadn’t died! A more helpful response might be something like this: “It’s an awful thing to lose a loved one. I can’t imagine the pain you’re in. I’m here for you when you’re ready.” Then, wait quietly, showing your support not through words but through actions and your simple presence. Sometimes that’s all the person is yearning to hear—that someone recognizes their sorrow, sympathizes with their pain, and won’t push them to be done grieving before they’re ready. When the time is right, remind them that because Jesus is risen, there is hope that we will see the lost one again.

`Looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do you reconcile the two ideas that 1. God allows death and 2. death is a curse?`