---
title:  Christ’s Journey of Grief
date:   12/03/2025
---

### inVite

Even Jesus, the Son of God, longed for His friends’ companionship and support in that dark hour when He expressed that His soul was “exceedingly sorrowful, even to death” (Matt. 26:38). In His sorrow, Jesus looked for human sympathy and exclaimed, “Stay here and watch with me” (v. 38). Jesus longed for those close to Him to be present and endure with Him while He grieved. He wanted them to pay attention to what was happening and be ready to offer prayerful support.

Someone who has the patience and vigilance to abide and watch with a grieving person knows that it may take a long time for the person to be okay. However, because we understand that grief and mourning take time, we can endure the journey with them and be ready, by God’s leading, to provide for their needs or help find them the assistance they may require. Being there for them may mean taking calls in the middle of the day or night to just listen to them. It may be listening to them tell the same story over and over. Telling one’s story is healing; it allows them to process what happened and how they feel. Being there for them may mean driving them to an appointment or to the grocery store. It may be getting them some tissue to wipe their tears. Being present with them gives them a safe resting place where they can share their tears and, at times, their laughter. It means helping them seek fellowship with others who can build hope in their hearts through the ministry of the Holy Spirit.

The account of Jesus in Gethsemane teaches us that the one grieving should be open to receiving support as part of the healing process. Christ did not push away the grief and sorrow. He expressed it and asked for comfort and support to get through it. Don’t be afraid to ask for help when you need it. Make a list of people and places that you find supportive and seek them out, or ask someone you trust to help you through the process. Jesus expressed His desire for human companionship when He asked His friends to watch and pray with Him. The weight of the sorrows Jesus carried would have crushed Him if not for an angel from heaven who was sent to strengthen Him (Luke 22:43).

Lastly, Jesus taught us that prayer is key in grieving. Like Jesus, Paul requested prayer when he was facing the last days of his life, too (Phil. 1:19–21). Sometimes when we pray with and for those who are grieving, we may not even know what to pray for, but as we do, we can trust that the Holy Spirit and God’s angels will help us minister and provide comfort.

Meditate on 1 Thessalonians 4 again and look for where Jesus is.

`How did Jesus respond to sorrow? What can we learn from His example?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`