---
title: 'Scripts and Scripture'
date: 26/06/2021
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Romans 12:1, 2**

**Scripts and Scripture**

The word script can denote a type of handwriting, the written dialogue of a play or movie, or the shortened term for a physician’s pharmaceutical order. One uncommon definition of script is it being a particular idea, value, or norm. Sometimes it’s applied psychologically to explain one’s behavior; or, sociologically, to explain a social trend in culture. There are scripts that are theological, political, ideological — every “-al” there is. They float around in scenarios influencing us from birth. Some pass us by, while others are completely consumed. Some mutate and are ejected into the “script-iverse” only to be recaptured by someone else.

Scripts are powerful providers of security, purpose, and meaning. They tell us what to say, how to think, when to move, how to feel. In many ways, they are not the operating systems of our lives but the coding that makes them up. You put these scripts together and, when systematized, they create an overarching narrative to give meaning, explain purpose, and provide security. They come from media, commerce, political systems, education, communities, and even our families. Leadership can either mold this script, propel it, or harness it to move organizations and communities forward. Artists try to envision them and reproduce them in creative ways. Academicians explain their origins and their present functions, and they attempt to predict their future permutations. All the while, we all absorb them, are influenced by them, and pass them on.

As ubiquitous as these scripts are, the Bible presents a perspective that all human scripts have failed, are failing, and are about to fail. The constant search for better scripts and humanity’s record of consistent dissatisfaction are evidences of their failure. Christian history itself is a testament to the failure of accepting partial biblical scripts and not accepting others. Though the Bible has been around for a while, its true embodiment as a primary script has yet to be realized.

This is made most evident in the realm of sexuality. Rather than understanding what sexual scripts the Bible has to present, humanity has imposed its own scripts onto the Bible, causing much confusion, suffering, and misery. Before delving into the sacred principles of relationships and physical intimacy, we will look at the role of not scripts, but Scripture.

#### inScribe

Write out Romans 12:1, 2 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `