---
title: 'Jesus the Countercultural'
date: 30/06/2021
---

#### inVite

In this world that seeks to call people out, eschew fakeness, and stand for something or someone, it is hard to ascertain that which is genuine, truth, and even whether it is worth it. Many stand for countercultural causes because the causes themselves have become culturally acceptable. Being countercultural can be so cultural.

The basic principles of the external social world must be juxtaposed with the basic principles that lie deep in our value systems. Jesus did not come to teach a message of being nice to fellow humanity, but a comprehensive worldview that was incompatible with the world. Once this juxtaposition occurs, there are clear dissonances with society that cause the follower of Jesus to act and live counter to that value. This is the beginning of the countercultural.

Jesus did not come to change social systems for the sake of social change, as some portray Him. By the same token, Jesus was not an ascetic who diverted followers away from the world, as others view Him. He came to live out the principles, or scripts, of Scripture that gave a comprehensive framework of principles and values that would compel His followers to address all forms of injustice, inequality, and immorality, regardless of whether it was popular, fashionable, or cultural. In other words, being centered on God, His Kingdom, His will, His work, His power, and His Spirit would result in the greatest counterculture of all (Matt. 6:33).  Not only would this result in social change in certain contexts, but it also involves the salvation of the world, the explanation for God’s dealings with evil in our world, and the removal of sin, evil, and its results for all time.

The social debates about sexuality are more than politics, sociology, ethics, and religion. They deal with who humanity acknowledges as having authority, sovereignty, and rights as Creator, Redeemer, and God. Why be part of a local cause when you can be part of a galactic movement that appeals to your sense of justice, fulfills your need of mercy, and satisfies your longings as a human socially, mentally, emotionally, physically, and spiritually?

` `