---
title:  The Evil That Sin Causes 
date:  14/03/2021
---

In Isaiah 58:3 (NIrV), the people ask God: “ ‘We have gone without food,’ they say. ‘Why haven’t you noticed [paid attention to] it? We have made ourselves suffer. Why haven’t you paid any attention to us?’ ”

The people think that the Lord does not answer them when they ask Him to save them. But in Isaiah 59:1, Isaiah answers that God can save them, and He hears them too.

`Read Isaiah 59:2. What does this verse show that the people are doing to cause God to turn away from their prayers?`

God chooses not to “pay attention” to His people. Why? Because “ ‘your sins have separated you from your God’ ” (Isaiah 59:2, NIrV). This verse shows us how sin hurts our friendship with God. Isaiah spends the rest of chapter 59 talking about this topic. Human history shows us that Isaiah is correct. Sin can destroy our connection with the Lord. It can cause us to lose our everlasting life. Sin does not turn God away from us. Sin turns us away from God.

`Read Genesis 3:8. How does this example of sin show us the important Bible rule we just talked about?`

Sin is turning away from God. The bad things that happen because of sin cause us to turn away from God even more. Sin separates us from God. Is it because God does not try to bring us back to Himself? No. The whole Bible shows us how God keeps trying to bring us back to Himself. The reason sin separates us is because sin causes us to turn away from God and His saving love. That is why it is so important that we do not put up with any sin in our lives.

`In what ways have you seen in your own life that sin separates you from God? What is the only thing that can be done to solve the problem of separation?`