---
title:  Who Is Forgiven? 
date:  15/03/2021
---

Isaiah 59 shows us a picture of the sin problem. The Bible also shows us hope.

How many of us have sinned? The Bible tells us the answer. Everyone. That is why we need God to save us and forgive us (Jeremiah 31:34). Paul agrees. Everyone has sinned (Romans 3:9–20, 23). So, how can God say we are innocent, as if we never sinned? God can save us when we accept by faith the death of Jesus for us.

`Read Romans 3:21–24. What do these verses tell us about how God saves us? What hope should this Bible truth give us during this time when God judges His people?`

What is the most important question that God will ask in His work as Judge? Is it, Who has sinned? That is not a question that needs to be asked. As we saw, everyone has sinned. The important question is: Who is forgiven? God is fair when He makes free from guilt “any person who has faith in Jesus” (Romans 3:26, ICB). God will look at our faith when He decides who is saved. He will ask, Have you accepted the forgiveness of Jesus?

True, God judges us by our behavior and our actions. But our behavior and good actions do not save us. If so, then we are no longer saved by faith (Romans 4:14). Our works show if we have been saved (James 2:18).

`Our works cannot save us. Not now and not in the time when God does His work as Judge. Why? For the answer, read Romans 3:20, 23.`

It is too late for our good behavior or obedience to the law to save us. The law shows us our sin. That is its job. Faith works by love (Galatians 5:6). The Spirit of God pours the love of God in the human heart (Romans 5:5). This love shows that a person has living faith in Jesus (read also James 2:26).

Our works show our saving faith. We show that we are saved when we obey the law of God. In His work as Judge, God looks at our behavior as proof of the faith in our hearts. God looks only at the works we do after we give our lives to Jesus. All the sins we did before Jesus saves us are forgiven and covered with His blood (read Romans 6).