---
title:  A Message For Everyone On Earth 
date:  16/03/2021
---

`What is Isaiah 60:1, 2 talking about? What important rule do you see here that is also seen in the whole Bible? What hope does this rule offer us?`

In Isaiah 60:1, 2, we see a picture of what God will do for His people after they are free from Babylon. This plan includes a Savior, who will free people from sin.

`In Isaiah 60:3, who is the “light” that kings and people groups come to?`

In the Hebrew language, this light shows us a woman. The woman also is shown by the city Zion. We read about this city at the end of Isaiah 59:20. So, the people on the earth will come to Zion. They are covered in darkness. They will go to Zion because of the light shining there. This light is a word picture for the glory of God (Isaiah 60:2). This glory is seen in Jesus. Zion is another name for Jerusalem. When Isaiah talks about the city, he really means the people of God.

Isaiah 60 talks more about the ideas we read about in the beginning of the chapter in verses 1–3. The people on the earth go to Jerusalem because of the light. The light is a word picture for the glory of God. This glory comes to the city when Jesus comes as a human to this earth.

`How does this message about the future help us remember the promise God made to Abraham in Genesis 12:2, 3? How are both sets of verses saying the same thing?`

God chose Abraham and his future children to bless everyone on this earth (Genesis 12:3; Genesis 18:18; Genesis 22:18). So, the special agreement between God and Abraham was also for all humans too.

Isaiah wanted to bring his people back to the first plan that God had for them when He chose them as His people. God chose them to show everyone on earth His love (read also Isaiah 56:3–8 and Isaiah 56:7).

`God chose Israel to be His people in Bible times. He chose Seventh-day Adventists to be His end-time church. What is His plan for the church? And His plan for you?`