---
title:  The Year When God Will Make His People Free 
date:  17/03/2021
---

`Who is talking in Isaiah 61:2?`

God chose the person who is talking. God poured His Spirit on Him too. That shows us that this person is the Savior. He is the One God chose to save people from sin. What is the job of the Savior? Isaiah tells us: “ ‘The Spirit of the LORD and King is on me. The LORD has anointed [chosen] me to announce good news to poor people. He has sent me to comfort those [people] whose hearts have been broken. He has sent me to announce freedom for those who have been captured. He wants me to set [make] prisoners free from their dark cells [prisons]’ ” (Isaiah 61:1, NIrV). Is this someone we already know from our study of Isaiah? Compare Isaiah 42:1–7, which talks about the Servant of God.

Isaiah 61:2 (ERV) announces that “ ‘the time has come for the LORD to show his kindness [loving-favor]’ ” to His people. The Chosen One makes Israel free and, at that time, announces a special year will happen. During this special year, God will show His people His favor. Compare Leviticus 25:10, ERV: “ ‘You will make the 50th year a special year. You will announce freedom for everyone living in your country. This will be called ‘Jubilee.’ Each of you will go back to your own property. And each of you will go back to your own family.’ ” This verse shows us what happens on the Year of Jubilee. This was good news for people who were forced to sell their family land or become servants (Leviticus 25:25–55). Now these people can get their land back and their freedom.

This special year in Isaiah 61:2 is a jubilee year. But it is also much more than that. This special year is the time when the Chosen One, the King, will announce Himself. He will show who He is by making His people free and giving them a new start. In Bible times, new kings often announced that people who owed money did not need to pay it back. The work of the Chosen One does more than make people free from slavery or giving them back their lands. He also comforts the suffering. He heals broken hearts. He gives them new lives (Isaiah 61:1–11). He announces the special year of loving-favor from God. He also announces that God will punish evil people (Isaiah 61:2).

`What work did Jesus do that we should be doing now?`