---
title:  'God will punish people who love to do evil'
date:  18/03/2021
---

`In Isaiah 61, the Savior shares the good news about many good things He will do. So, why does He promise that God will punish people who love to do evil? Is this good news too? If yes, why? When will this promise happen?`

When Jesus was in Nazareth, He read Isaiah 61. He read the first part of verse 2: God “ ‘has sent me to announce that the time has come for the LORD to show his kindness [loving-favor]’ ” (Isaiah 61:2, ERV; read also Luke 4:19). Then Jesus stopped reading and said, “ ‘While you heard me reading these words just now, they were coming true!’ ” (Luke 4:21, ERV). Jesus chose not to read the next words in the same verse: “ ‘our God will also punish evil people’ ” (Isaiah 61:2, ERV). Jesus came to make humans free from Satan. Jesus was just starting to do this work. So, the time when God will also punish evil people had not come. In Matthew 24 (compare Mark 13, Luke 21), Jesus told His followers that God will punish sinners in the future.

In Isaiah 61, the day that God will punish evil people is the same as “ ‘the Lord’s overwhelming [scary] and terrible [awful] day of judging’ ” (Joel 2:31, ICB; Malachi 4:5). This day will be awful and scary for people who refused to accept the forgiveness of God. This day will happen when Jesus comes to make this earth free from sin. Jesus will beat His enemies. He will make His people free (Revelation 19; compare Daniel 2:44, 45. Jesus announced the start of the time for God to show His loving favor. But the end of that time will happen at the Second Coming.

`How can God be loving and at the same time be a God who punishes evil people? Does this make sense? Or is His punishment part of His love? If yes, explain.`

Jesus told us to turn the other cheek (Matthew 5:39). At the same time, Jesus promises that God will punish people who love to do evil (Matthew 8:12). Paul tells us not to do evil to people who do evil to us (1 Thessalonians 5:15). Paul also says that God “will punish those [people] who don’t know God” (2 Thessalonians 1:8, NIrV).

As humans, we are filled with faults. Our wisdom has limits. We are not always fair when we judge and punish other people. God is always fair. Only He can be just and full of mercy when He punishes evil.