---
title:  Further Thought
date:  19/03/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 376–378; also The Desire of Ages, pages 236–243.

“Jesus stands in front of the people as a teacher. He explains the Old Testament messages about Himself. He talks about the Savior as someone who will help the suffering. The Savior will give freedom to slaves. He will heal the sick. He will give sight to the blind. He will show people on earth Bible truth. The way that Jesus talks is wonderful. His words touch the hearts of the people with a power they never felt before. Jesus breaks every wall between God and humans. The people have the same experience as Moses did. As Moses, they see what human eyes cannot see. The Holy Spirit touches their hearts. They answer Jesus with amens and praises to the Lord.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 237, adapted.

The day is coming when God will punish people who love to do evil. This is the day when God will show His deep anger against sin. Who will stand when the Lord comes again? Men have made their hearts hard against the Spirit of God. But on that day, the anger of God will pierce the hearts of humans who refused to accept the truth about Jesus. Soon God will punish sinners. Will the false shepherd protect the sinner in that day? Will God excuse the person who followed after the crowd that disobeyed the law of God? Will it matter how popular we are? Will it matter if a lot of people like us? Some people act as if they do not care about what will happen in the future. But they need to carefully think about the answers to these questions. They need to decide what they believe.”—Ellen G. White, Faith and Works, p. 33, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`A Seventh-day Adventist preacher talked about the number one problem in his church. Church members did not want other people to join them. Why must that change? Our job is to take the Good News about Jesus to as many people as we can. Then they can have a chance to be saved before the end comes (Matthew 24:14). So how can we show to other people the love, hope, and Good News about the kingdom of Jesus? What can we do to make visitors to our churches feel welcome?`

**Summary**: God brings His people back home. His people turn from the sins that separated them from God. God is with His people. People from other countries come to God and His people. They want to enjoy the loving favor of God too. The Savior announces when this time will happen.