---
title:  Some Important Rules
date:   29/03/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Matthew 24:15; Psalm 139:1–6; Daniel 12:4; Matthew 5:18; Daniel 7:7.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘But if someone wants to brag, let him brag about this: Let him brag that he understands and knows me. Let him brag that I am the Lord. Let him brag that I am kind [loving] and fair. Let him brag that I do things that are right [good] on earth. This kind [type] of bragging pleases me,’ says the Lord” (Jeremiah 9:24, ICB).

Most Christians don’t agree about the meaning of the Bible’s special messages about the future. So, non-Christians often think that the Bible’s end-time messages are a waste of time. If Christians can’t agree about what the messages mean, why should anyone bother reading them? Sad to say, many Christians start to think that Bible books with special messages about the end times can’t be understood. So, they don’t read them.

Things used to be different. For many hundreds of years, most Christians understood the Bible’s special messages about the future. Most Christians agreed about what the special messages meant. God wants His children to understand His special messages: “Christian brothers, I ask you with all my heart in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ to agree among yourselves. Do not be divided into little groups. Think and act as if you all had the same mind [thoughts]” (1 Corinthians 1:10, NLV). This week, we will look at some important rules that will help us to understand the meaning of God’s end-time messages.