---
title:  Let the Reader Understand
date:   30/03/2025
---

Walk into any Christian bookstore and look at the books about the Bible’s special messages about the end times. Soon you will see that the writers have many different ideas. These ideas make you think that no one can really understand what the book of Revelation is saying. One example is the topic of the antichrist. The antichrist is God’s enemy. The writer of one book about the Bible’s end-time messages says that the antichrist is not real. The antichrist is only a word picture. Another writer says that the antichrist is something or someone who lived in the days of the Kingdom of Rome. Some people believe that you can use the Bible to support any idea you want.

But the Bible itself doesn’t support these false ideas. The Bible invites us to read and learn. The Bible teaches us that we can know and understand the things God says to us in the Bible.

`Read Matthew 24:15; Revelation 1:3; Matthew 11:29; and Jeremiah 9:23, 24. What do these verses teach us about God’s plan for us to understand Bible truth?`

Many universities teach students about how to read the Bible. The professors who teach these classes may not believe in the Bible. They think the stories can teach us good behavior. But they don’t believe the stories really happened or that they are God’s words to us.

So, these professors read the Bible, but they don’t believe it comes from God. Other people read the Bible and teach things about it that go against the Bible’s own message. So, we must be careful when we study the Bible. We must give our hearts and lives to Jesus first. If we don’t, we may not understand the Bible’s message and what it teaches us about God. We can misunderstand the Bible more easily than we think. That’s why we must read the Bible with the right spirit and with the Holy Spirit’s help.

`Some people read the Bible just so they can find excuses and reasons not to believe in its message. Why is this behavior and thinking so wrong?`