---
title:  God Wants Us to Understand Him
date:   31/03/2025
---

Did you ever need to communicate with someone in a foreign country where you couldn’t speak the language very well? You know what you want to say. But you don’t have the vocabulary to say what you need to say.

God has a different problem when He tries to talk with us. God says, “ ‘The heavens are higher than the earth. And my ways are higher than your ways. My thoughts are higher than your thoughts’ ” (Isaiah 55:9, NIrV). The problem isn’t that God doesn’t have the vocabulary to talk with us. The problem is that we don’t have the vocabulary or the mind to understand God fully.

**What do the verses below teach us about God’s understanding? How does God’s understanding compare with our own?**

`Psalm 139:1–6`

`Psalm 147:5`

`Romans 11:33`

`1 John 3:20`

For sure, we can’t fully understand the mind of God. God has no beginning and no end. God knows everything. We can’t understand everything about the things He made. So, how can we understand Him fully? We can’t.

Maybe we can’t understand everything. But we can understand the things that we need to know about God’s saving mercy (read 2 Timothy 3:14, 15). The end-time messages in the Bible can teach us a lot about God’s plan to save us. In the end, God’s special messages must lead us to Jesus and His promise to save us. Jesus offers this promise to everyone.

The Lord Jesus made everything (read Colossians 1:16; John 1:1–3). He came down to this earth and then offered Himself for our sins on the cross. Jesus died for even the worst one of us. That is how much God loves us all. Because Jesus died for each of us, He wants everyone, the worst of us included, to be saved. God wants us all to know what He offers us in Jesus. The special messages in the Bible help us to know what God offers us.