---
title:  “Daniel, Keep This Message A Secret”
date:   01/04/2025
---

`Read Daniel 12:4. What was the Lord telling Daniel to do in this verse? (Compare with Revelation 22:10.)`

Many preachers believe that Daniel 12:4 teaches that our knowledge about science will grow very fast, just before Jesus comes back. Some preachers also say that Daniel 12:4 talks about how people in the end times will invent new ways to travel fast from place to place. Many of our own Adventist books teach these same ideas. For sure, these things did happen. At the same time, could Daniel 12:4 have another meaning?

Read the verse again. The first thing the angel tells Daniel to do is to “ ‘keep this message a secret’ ” (Daniel 12:4, ERV). What message is the angel talking about? The message is the book of Daniel itself. So, maybe the knowledge that will grow more and more in the end times is the knowledge we will get about the book of Daniel.

The book of Daniel is different from the book of Revelation. The Lord told John not to keep his book a secret (Revelation 22:10). God wanted His people to understand the book of Revelation from the start because “all these things will happen soon” (Revelation 1:3, NLV). Compare this verse with Daniel 12:4, which tells us that God’s people will understand the book of Daniel more clearly at a time faraway in the future.

Many Christian thinkers in the past tried to explain the book of Daniel. Some of these thinkers enjoyed much success in their studies. But people started to understand much more about the book of Daniel after the end of the 1,260-year special message about time. This special message about time ended in a.d. 1798. At that time, many Christian thinkers worldwide started to believe that something important was going to happen around 1843. William Miller was the most famous of these thinkers. His preaching caused people everywhere to get ready for the Second Coming. The Seventh-day Adventist Church grew out of this time. People began to understand the Three Angels’ Messages better.

Think about how many Christians don’t understand important Bible truth for this time. Most Christians worship on Sunday, and not on the Sabbath. Many Christians believe that the dead continue to live on after their bodies die. Or they believe the dead burn forever in hell. So, we should be thankful for all the Bible truth God gave our church.