---
title:  Studying the Bible
date:   02/04/2025
---

Seventh-day Adventists owe much to William Miller for their understanding of end-time happenings in the Bible. Miller didn’t have a correct understanding of some important verses about the end times. One of those verses was Daniel 8:14. But Miller understood how to study the Bible’s special messages about the future. His understanding about these messages helped to start the Seventh-day Adventist Church.

`Read Matthew 5:18; 2 Timothy 3:15–17; and Luke 24:27. What do these verses teach us about the way we should study the Bible’s special messages about the future?`

Many Christians make a mistake when they study the Bible. They will use a verse in the Bible to explain what is happening on the news. But these Christians don’t compare the verse to the rest of the Bible to understand its meaning. Then they write books about the future that need to be rewritten every few years. That’s because the writers were wrong in the first place about what they said was going to happen and when it would happen.

So, it’s very important to know how to study the Bible correctly. We must not choose to study only a few verses on a topic. We must carefully study everything the Bible says about that topic. We also must think about why the verse was written and when it was written. This knowledge helps us to understand what the Bible is really saying. Then we will not make the Bible say whatever we want.

`Do you know people who use only certain verses of the Bible to prove their belief in something? These same people pay no attention to the rest of the Bible and its teachings on the topic. Why is this thinking wrong? What is the best way to study the Bible?`