---
title:  Word Picture or Real Experience?
date:   03/04/2025
---

When we study the Bible’s special messages about the future, we must know when the Bible is talking about a symbol or when the Bible is talking about a real experience. So, how do we decide if a Bible writer is talking in symbols or word pictures? How do we know what the symbols really mean? The best way to know is to see how other writers use that same symbol or word picture all through the Bible. We must not look at how that symbol or word picture is used in modern times today. Some people think that the bear in Daniel 7 is a symbol for Russia. Why? Because many people use the bear today as a symbol for that country. But we must not follow this plan when we study the Bible’s special messages.

**Look up the following verses. What symbol do you see in each verse, and what does the symbol mean? Remember, allow the Bible to explain itself.**

`Daniel 7:7; Daniel 8:3; Daniel 7:24`

`Revelation 1:16; Ephesians 6:17; Hebrews 4:12`

`Revelation 12:1; Revelation 21:2; Ephesians 5:31, 32; Jeremiah 6:2`

Again, we must let the Bible explain itself. When we follow this simple rule, then many of our problems with understanding the Bible will disappear. Here are some examples: the Bible shows us that a horn can be a symbol for a government or a country. A sword can be a symbol for the Bible. A woman can be a symbol for the church.

So, why does God talk to us in symbols and word pictures in the Bible? God may have many reasons for choosing to communicate with symbols. One example is the book of Revelation that uses Babylon as a symbol for Rome. If the Bible named Rome as the cause of so much evil, then the church could have suffered worse from Rome than it already suffered. Whatever the reasons, we can trust that God wants us to understand what the symbols mean.