---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   04/04/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “An American Reformer,” pages 319–324, in The Great Controversy.

“Pastors and people taught that no one could understand the special messages in the books of Daniel and the Revelation. But Jesus told His followers to read the words Daniel wrote about the things that would happen in their lifetime. Jesus said, ‘You who read this [Daniel 9:27] should understand what it means.’ Matthew 24:15 [ERV]. The name of the book of Revelation tells us that God wants us to understand this book: ‘This is the revelation [an opening up; a making known of the Bible truth that was hidden] of [about; from] Jesus Christ. God gave this revelation to Jesus, to show His servants what must soon happen. And Jesus sent His angel to show His message to His servant John. John has told everything that he has seen. It is the truth that Jesus Christ told him; it is the message from God. The one who reads the words of God’s message is happy. And the people who hear this message and do what is written in it are happy. The time is near when all of this will happen.’ Revelation 1:1–3 [ICB]. . . .

“So no one should teach other people that the book of Revelation is a mystery that people can’t understand. The book of Revelation is a mystery that God explains. The book of Revelation will help us remember the book of Daniel. Together, both books give us important lessons and teachings from God. These lessons and teachings show us what will happen at the end of this earth’s history.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 341, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In what ways does the study of the Bible’s special messages about the future help make your faith strong? What reasons does Daniel 2 give us to trust God and His knowledge about the future?`

`How do we protect ourselves from the many false ideas about the Bible’s special messages? Sometimes these false ideas come from our own church. Why must we be careful to “test everything. Keep what is good” (1 Thessalonians 5:21, ERV)?`