---
title:  Crisis Of Leadership
date:  02/01/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Isa. 6:1–4, Isa. 6:5–7, Isa. 6:8, Isa. 6:9–13.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, high and lifted up, and the train of His robe filled the temple” (Isaiah 6:1, NKJV).

When asked by one of his disciples about the ingredients of good government, Confucius answered: “‘Sufficient food, sufficient weapons, and the confidence of the common people.’

“ ‘But,’ asked the disciple, ‘suppose you had no choice but to dispense with one of those three, which would you forego?’

“ ‘Weapons,’ said Confucius.

“His disciple persisted: ‘Suppose you were then forced to dispense with one of the two that are left, which would you forego?’

“Replied Confucius, ‘Food. For from of old, hunger has been the lot of all men, but a people that no longer trusts its rulers is lost indeed.’ ”—Edited by Michael P. Green, 1500 Illustrations for Biblical Preaching (Grand Rapids, Mich.: Baker Books, 1989), p. 215.

People do, indeed, want strong, trustworthy leadership. When a soldier was signing up for a second term of duty, the army recruiter asked why he wanted to re-enlist. “I tried civilian life,” he said, “but nobody is in charge out there.”

This week, we will look at Judah’s crisis of leadership and the sad results that followed.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, January 9._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

By their apostasy and rebellion those who should have been standing as light bearers among the nations were inviting the judgments of God. Many of the evils which were hastening the swift destruction of the northern kingdom, and which had recently been denounced in unmistakable terms by Hosea and Amos, were fast corrupting the kingdom of Judah. . . .

With oppression and wealth came pride and love of display, gross drunkenness, and a spirit of revelry. See Isaiah 2:11, 12; 3:16, 18-23; Isaiah 5:22, 11, 12. And in Isaiah’s day idolatry itself no longer provoked surprise. See Isaiah 2:8, 9. Iniquitous practices had become so prevalent among all classes that the few who remained true to God were often tempted to lose heart and to give way to discouragement and despair. It seemed as if God’s purpose for Israel were about to fail and that the rebellious nation was to suffer a fate similar to that of Sodom and Gomorrah.—_Prophets and Kings_, p. 306.

In all His dealings with His creatures God has maintained the principles of righteousness by revealing sin in its true character—by demonstrating that its sure result is misery and death. The unconditional pardon of sin never has been, and never will be. Such pardon would show the abandonment of the principles of righteousness, which are the very foundation of the government of God. It would fill the unfallen universe with consternation. God has faithfully pointed out the results of sin, and if these warnings were not true, how could we be sure that His promises would be fulfilled? That so-called benevolence which would set aside justice, is not benevolence, but weakness. . . .

There is a God in Israel, with whom is deliverance for all that are oppressed. Righteousness is the habitation of His throne.—_God’s Amazing Grace_, p. 73.

Let God’s workmen study the sixth chapter of Isaiah, and the first and second chapters of Ezekiel.

To the prophet the wheel within a wheel, the appearances of living creatures connected with them, all seemed intricate and unexplainable. But the hand of Infinite Wisdom is seen among the wheels, and perfect order is the result of its work. Every wheel works in perfect harmony with every other.

I have been shown that human instrumentalities seek after too much power and try to control the work themselves. They leave the Lord God, the Mighty Worker, too much out of their methods and plans, and do not trust everything to Him in regard to the advancement of the work. No one should fancy that he is able to manage these things which belong to the great I AM. God in His providence is preparing a way so that the work may be done by human agents. Then let every man stand at his post of duty, to act his part for this time, and know that God is his instructor.—_Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers_, pp. 213, 214.