---
title:  The King Is Dead. Long Live The King!
date:  03/01/2021
---

`Isaiah 6:1 talks about the death of King Uzziah. Read 2 Chronicles 26 and then answer this question: What is the significance of King Uzziah’s death?`

Different perspectives can be given regarding the death of this king.

1. Although Uzziah’s reign was long and prosperous, “when he had become strong he grew proud, to his destruction” (2 Chron. 26:16, NRSV) and attempted to offer incense in the temple. When the priests rightly stopped him because he was not authorized as a priestly descendant of Aaron (2 Chron. 26:18), the king became angry. At this moment, when the king refused reproof, the Lord immediately struck him with leprosy, which he had “to the day of his death, and being leprous lived in a separate house, for he was excluded from the house of the LORD” (2 Chron. 26:21, NRSV). How ironic that Isaiah saw a vision of the pure, immortal, divine King in His house/temple in the very year the impure human king died!

2. There is a striking contrast between Uzziah and Isaiah. Uzziah reached for holiness presumptuously, for the wrong reason (pride), and instead became ritually impure, so that he was cut off from holiness. Isaiah, on the other hand, allowed God’s holiness to reach him. He humbly admitted his weakness and yearned for moral purity, which he received (Isa. 6:5–7, NRSV). Like the tax collector in Jesus’ parable, he went away justified: “ ‘for all who exalt themselves will be humbled, but all who humble themselves will be exalted’ ” (Luke 18:14, NRSV).

3. There is a striking similarity between Uzziah's leprous body and the moral condition of his people: “. . . there is no soundness in it, but bruises and sores and bleeding wounds” (Isa. 1:6, NRSV).

4. The death of Uzziah in about 740 B.C. marks a major crisis in the leadership of God’s people. The death of any absolute ruler makes his/her country vulnerable during a transition of power. But Judah was in special danger, because Tiglath-Pileser III had ascended the throne of Assyria a few years before, in 745 B.C., and immediately went on the warpath that made his nation an invincible superpower that threatened the independent existence of all nations in the Near East. In this time of crisis, God encouraged Isaiah by showing the prophet that He was still in control.

`Read carefully 2 Chronicles 26:16. In what ways does each one of us face that potential for the same thing? How can dwelling on the Cross protect us from that pitfall?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The long reign of Uzziah in the land of Judah and Benjamin was characterized by a prosperity greater than that of any other ruler since the death of Solomon, nearly two centuries before. For many years the king ruled with discretion. Under the blessing of Heaven his armies regained some of the territory that had been lost in former years. Cities were rebuilt and fortified, and the position of the nation among the surrounding peoples was greatly strengthened. Commerce revived, and the riches of the nations flowed into Jerusalem. Uzziah’s name “spread far abroad; for he was marvellously helped, till he was strong.” 2 Chronicles 26:15.

This outward prosperity, however, was not accompanied by a corresponding revival of spiritual power. The temple services were continued as in former years, and multitudes assembled to worship the living God; but pride and formality gradually took the place of humility and sincerity. Of Uzziah himself it is written: “When he was strong, his heart was lifted up to his destruction: for he transgressed against the Lord his God.” Verse 16.—_Prophets and Kings_, pp. 303, 304.

Obedience to the Lord always brings favor, and a faithful discharge of righteous principles will bear the divine credentials; but the Lord is dishonored when those who are placed as stewards of God’s flock, sustain and sanction an evil work. . . .

The case of Uzziah the king reveals how God will punish the sin of presumption. . . . The Lord has ordained men to certain positions in His church, and He would not have them step out of the places to which He has appointed them. When the Lord gives them a measure of success, they are not to become lifted up, and think themselves qualified to do a work for which they are not fitted, and to which God has not called them.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 3, p. 1132.

The Lord has given abundant evidence of the truthfulness of His promises and threatenings. His people may trust His word. Will they then, in the face of light and evidence, follow a course of their own choosing, independent of God’s ordained agencies? Even good men need to be guarded on every hand, lest they shall become so elevated over the blessings God has given them that the applause and praise from worldlings shall be as a stimulus for them to display their great wisdom and acquisitions.

The Lord sees, the Lord knows. He will certainly humble all such aspirations; for He hates pride and selfishness and covetousness. The more prosperous the work may be in itself, the less appropriate is it for men to exalt themselves, as though they were the ones who should be lifted up. Our trust must be in God. He has entrusted men with abilities and capabilities, that they may act a prominent part in His work. Let them take heed how they shall exalt themselves.—_This Day With God_, p. 193.