---
title:  "People From Every Country: Part 2"
date:   26/04/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Genesis 2:9–17; Daniel 2:31–35; Daniel 7:1–3; Revelation 12:15, 16; Revelation 10:1–11.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Be quiet and know that I am God. I will be honored among the nations [people groups]. I will be honored in [on] the earth” (Psalm 46:10, NLV).

For hundreds of years, some people said that God’s plan from the beginning included sin. These same people said that God needed humans to fall into sin and death. Then He could send Jesus to the cross to save them. What better way for God to show His love for humans than with His Son’s dying on the cross? So, that’s why these thinkers say that God needed the human family to sin.

This idea is awful. God never wanted Satan or humans to fall. Satan’s sin and then Adam and Eve’s sin was evil. Sin caused many terrible things to happen. If Adam and Eve didn’t sin, our joy in the Lord would be perfect.

This week, we will continue to look at the problems that the Fall caused. We also will continue to look at the problems that happened when people wanted human leaders and not God to control their lives. We will look at the book of Daniel, which shows that God was correct. God warned His people about the terrible things that would happen when they turned away from Him and chose kings. The kings were sinners, the same as they were. So, Bible history shows us kings as sinners controlling other sinners. This plan is not a wise one.