---
title:  The First Command
date:   27/04/2025
---

The Garden of Eden was the same as a classroom. In it, God taught Adam and Eve more about His love. “Adam and Eve were God’s children. He was their caring Father. Adam and Eve also were students of the God who made them. God was very wise. He knows everything. He taught Adam and Eve many things. . . . Adam and Eve studied ‘the miracles of God, who knows everything’ (Job 37:16, ICB). These mysteries of nature taught Adam and Eve knowledge and gave them much joy.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 50, 51, adapted.

`Read Genesis 2:9–17. What was the first command that God gave humans? Why was this command so important?`

The first command that God gave humans was in Genesis 2:16, 17. God commanded Adam and Eve not to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. How can some knowledge be forbidden? Isn’t it always useful to know more?

That’s not what the Bible says. God wanted to educate His people about good things. But some knowledge causes suffering. God didn’t want Adam and Eve to learn about that. When we refuse to let God control our lives, we will suffer terrible things.

Thousands of years after Adam and Eve, the Israelites asked for a king. The Lord told His people the evil things that would happen because they wanted a king. The Lord also told His people that their decision to reject His control would continue until the end of human history.

The kings of Israel grew more and more evil over time. God’s chosen people also became more and more the same as the people around them. The Israelites didn’t remember God’s plan for their lives. So, God gave Israel more of what they wanted: human government.

When we understand these ideas, we will understand the book of Daniel so much better. In the book of Daniel, we see the different kingdoms that will control the earth. The book of Daniel shows why Israel failed as a people group: they refused to follow God’s commandments. Just as the Garden of Eden was the first classroom for God’s people, Babylon also became their classroom. But God’s people were not free in Babylon; they were prisoners. But anyone who wanted to learn could see that God’s kingdom was different from the kingdoms on this earth.