---
title:  Daniel 2
date:   28/04/2025
---

During the time that the Jews were in Babylon, God showed the important relationship between His people and the kingdoms on this earth. At this time, God’s people were prisoners. Now they would suffer for their choices. (Maybe they would learn from them, too?)

`Read Daniel 2:31–35. These verses show us what will happen in human history until the end times. What important Bible truths can we learn from this amazing message?
`
At the end of the 1800s, many people were excited about the future. They hoped that science could solve the worst of our problems. When the 1900s started, many thinkers believed humans could become perfect and that new inventions in science and medicine would start a wonderful new time in human history.

Then World War I came and proved that these hopes were false. By the end of the 1900s, more than 200 million people died in war. Inventions of science may have made our lives easier and better in many ways. But science did not make us better people.

Many people who study Daniel 2 notice that the metals in the statue move from high value to low value: from gold to silver to brass to iron, and finally, to iron and clay.

Many thinkers and scientists in the 1900s tried to convince us that humans can make their lives better. In some ways, our lives are better. But can we hope for a future filled with peace, safety, and plenty?

`Jesus warned us about the things that will happen in the future: “ ‘You will hear about wars that are being fought. And you will hear stories about other wars beginning. But don’t be afraid. These things must happen before the end comes. Nations [people groups from different countries] will fight against other nations. Kingdoms will fight against other kingdoms. There will be times when there is no food for people to eat. And there will be earthquakes in different places’ ” (Matthew 24:6, 7, ERV). How does knowing what will happen in the future give us hope?`