---
title:  Daniel 7
date:   29/04/2025
---

God first showed the dream in Daniel 2 to a Babylonian king. God showed the dream in Daniel 7 to Daniel, a Hebrew prophet. A prophet is a special messenger from God to His people. Daniel belonged to God’s chosen people, the Jews.

In Daniel 7, God shows Daniel the same topic He showed to King Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel 2, but in a different form. Nebuchadnezzar saw a statue in his dream. Daniel sees a group of wild animals coming from the sea when the wind stirs the water. These nations, or people groups, always fought each other for control. Psalm 65:5–8; Isaiah 17:12, 13; and Jeremiah 46:7, 8 use the word pictures of floods and waves to talk about the fighting between the nations.

God wanted the Promised Land to be different from these countries. And for a time, it was. The Promised Land was the same as an island of peace and safety. Israel was a holy nation under the control of God’s government and not under the control of the fighting nations around it.

`Read Daniel 7:1–3. A lot of things happen in these verses. What lessons can we learn from the word pictures in these verses? (An example is the wild animal, or beast, coming up from the sea.)`

Daniel stands on the beach and watches the non-Jewish countries fight. All of a sudden, the beasts start coming up on the land and into his territory! Now non-Jewish problems became his people’s problem. Israel chose to live the same as the non-Jews. So now they would live with (and under the control of) non-Jews. When God’s people were carried away into Babylon, they never again were completely free or in control of their own government for very long.

Today, Christians will not have full control over their lives until the close of time. At that time, Jesus finally becomes our King. In the New Testament, God’s people continued to suffer under the Roman power. Later, God’s people suffered when the little horn hurt them. The little horn took power and control from the Kingdom of Rome.

`How does Romans 3:10–19 help explain so much of what is happening today? How does verse 19 show us why we need the Good News about Jesus in our lives?`