---
title:  Between Land and Sea
date:   30/04/2025
---

The Bible uses the “land” and “sea” as word pictures in special messages about the future. These word pictures can teach us important lessons about the end times.

“When the Bible talks about the ‘land’ and ‘sea’ together, the ‘land’ often shows us a place of peace or even a place of safety. But the sea shows us the non-Jewish people that hurt Israel in the same way that waves from the sea crash on the land.”—Beatrice S. Neall, “Sealed Saints and the Tribulation,” in Symposium on Revelation, Book 1, edited by Frank B. Holbrook (Silver Spring, MD: Biblical Research Institute, General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, 1992), page 260, adapted.

So, in the Bible the “land” can be a word picture for a place of peace and safety that God started. On the other hand, the “sea” shows us the nations or people groups that are always fighting and are filled with pride.

`Read Revelation 12:15, 16 and Revelation 13:1, 11. Notice how the verses talk about the water and the earth. How are these two word pictures used in these verses? What can they teach us about how to understand the Bible’s messages about the end times?`

Notice that the dragon uses “water” to hurt the woman (the church). As we saw already, in the Bible’s messages about the end times, water often is a word picture for leaders and governments on this earth who are always fighting for control and power. So, these word pictures show us how Satan used leaders and their people to hurt God’s people during much of church history.

Also, Seventh-day Adventists understand Revelation 12:16 to show Christians coming to the United States to escape these attacks. Is the United States “the earth,” in verse 16, in the same way that the “Promised Land” was a place of peace and safety that God made for His people? Is this why the land-beast or wild animal first looks the same as a lamb? For sure, the United States never was the “New Israel” that some people said it was. But for a long time, it was a land of religious freedom for millions of people who left their countries to escape being hurt for their faith.

Someday, the United States will behave the same as a dragon (Revelation 13:11). This change will happen when people choose to follow laws that don’t honor God or the Bible.