---
title:  Tell What Will Happen Again
date:   01/05/2025
---

God’s end-time church was born in the United States, the New World. People who wanted religious freedom escaped to the United States during the 1600s and 1700s.

`Read Revelation 10:1–11. These verses talk about how God’s end-time church was born. Look for some of the word pictures we already studied. Do you see how the verses talk about the land and the sea? What do these verses teach us about what happened in the past and what will happen in the future?`

The angel cries with a loud voice, much the same as the three angels of Revelation 14 and the angel of Revelation 18 do. The angel cries at an important time in history when God sets up His end-time church to do special work on the earth to save many people (Revelation 10:11).

The angel holds a little book. We believe this book is the book of Daniel (read Daniel 12:4). The book is open for the first time in thousands of years. The angel stands with one foot on the sea and the other foot on the earth. This word picture may mean that the message must go everywhere on earth. Also, this word picture may mean that the angel’s message is for all countries or people groups: for the people who live on the land and for the people who live on the “non-Jewish” sea.

Before Jesus comes back, God’s glory will fill the whole earth with the light of Bible truth. Everyone on earth will hear the messages in Revelation 14. God gave to us the same command He gave to Israel in Bible times. We must preach “the Good News about God’s kingdom . . . in all the world, to every nation. Then the end will come” (Matthew 24:14, ICB).

God is in charge of human history. He controls what will happen in the future. In the end, human kingdoms will fail. Jesus will be King forever. Read Daniel 2:34, 35, 44, 45. The Bible says that all of these kingdoms will end. Nothing will be left of them. They all will be replaced with God’s everlasting kingdom. Sin, suffering, sickness, evil, and death will not happen again.

`Look at how Daniel 2 and 7 happened exactly as the Bible said. Why should this information help us trust God’s promise about His kingdom, which is final and everlasting?`