---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   02/05/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Tower of Babel,” pages 117–124, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“ ‘Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. The first heaven and the first earth had disappeared. Now there was no sea.’ Revelation 21:1 [ERV]. Fire destroys the people who rejected God. This same fire cleans the earth. Nothing is left of sin. There is no hell with everlasting fire to burn forever. The saved people always will remember that sin is very terrible.

“One thing will be left to help God’s people remember: our Savior’s body always will have the marks from His suffering for our sins. His head, His side, His hands, and His feet are the only things left that show that sin is very evil. God’s special messenger, Habakkuk, saw Jesus in His glory and said, ‘He is as bright as the sun. He has light shining from His hand, where His power is hidden.’ Habakkuk 3:4 [NLV]. The Savior’s side that was stabbed shows His glory. Blood came out of His side. This blood made sinners accepted with God. Jesus offered Himself to save us. He is mighty to save us. So, He also can judge the people who rejected God’s mercy. Jesus’ cuts caused Him shame in this life. Now these same scars give Him glory and honor. The cuts Jesus got on Calvary will cause everyone to praise Him. These same cuts will announce Jesus’ power.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 674, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Everything we do in this life, now or in the past, will be destroyed forever when Jesus comes. Why do we need to remember this idea? How can this thought help us remember the most important things in life?`

`Look again at the sea beast or wild animal in Revelation 13:1–10. In what ways does this beast behave the same as all human nations or people groups from Babylon to the little horn power? How do the governments on the earth show the ideas and thoughts of Babylon or Rome?`

`How must we as Adventists follow the Lord and, at the same time, obey the laws of the land we live in? What happens when our obedience to God causes us not to follow the laws of the land?`