---
title:  Sin in the Church
date:  18/07/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Cor. 5:1–13, 2 Cor. 2:5–10, 1 Cor. 6:1–13, 1 Thess. 4:1–8, 1 Cor. 6:19–7:9.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Do you not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have received from God? You are not your own; you were bought at a price. Therefore honor God with your bodies” (1 Corinthians 6:19, 20, NIV).

Our brains are like sponges: whatever is brought to them, via our senses, stays in them. We might not be conscious of most of what comes in (we’d be unable to think clearly if we did remember everything), but it’s all there, and, to some degree, impacts what we think, feel, and do.

That’s why it’s so easy for us, even as Christians, to be impacted by all the bad things around us. The Christian church, from the start, has struggled with this problem. Where, for instance, did Sunday keeping come from? Did the church just pull it out of the air? Of course not. It came from the culture around it.

And we can see this principle unfolding here in Corinth. After an appeal against factionalism (1 Corinthians 1–4), Paul now turns to issues related to sexual immorality, lawsuits, prostitution, marriage, and singleness (1 Corinthians 5–7). The standards of the world affected them extensively. The factionalism portrayed in 1 Corinthians 1–4 opened the door for the moral behavior denounced in the ensuing chapters. How does Paul seek to address this sin in the church, and what lessons can we take from what he wrote?

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, July 25._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Paul felt that the Lord’s requirements must be obeyed, His judgments avoided. Like Paul, we must make every effort to obtain the crown of life, which brings eternal honor to every victor. We must not be content to live useless lives.What is humility? That sense of sin and unworthiness which leads to repentance. But we must be assured of the malignity of a disease before we feel our need of a cure. Those who do not realize the sinfulness of sin are not able to appreciate the value of the atonement and the necessity of being cleansed from all sin. The sinner measures himself by himself and by those who like himself are sinners. He does not look at the purity and holiness of Christ. But when the law of God brings conviction to his heart, he says with Paul, “I was alive without the law once: but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died” (Romans 7:9). . . .\
God created man for His glory. He will not, cannot endure the presence of sin in His dominion. If there are in the church those who are willfully sinning against God, every possible means should be used to bring them to repentance. If this is not done, God’s name is dishonored. He is too pure to look upon iniquity with favor. . . .\
Adam’s sin would be regarded by the churches of today as a simple mistake, to be at once forgiven and no more thought of. But God’s standard is high and His word immutable, and all selfish, covetous practices are an abomination inHis sight. The hearts of believers need to be purified, sanctified, refined, ennobled. . . .\
Look up, my brethren. Has the gospel lost its power to impress hearts? Is it because the regenerating influence of the Spirit of Christ has died away that hearts are not purified, sanctified, and prepared for the Holy Spirit? No; the Sword of the Spirit, the Word of the living God, is with us yet; but it must be wielded with earnestness. Let us use it as did God’s sanctified ones of old. By its living, quickening power it will cut its way to hearts. . . .\
The Lord calls for a reformation all through our ranks. . . . When the church is awakened, decided changes will be made. Men and women will be converted, and so filled will they be by the Spirit of God that they will pass from country to country, from city to city, proclaiming the message of truth. With hearts filled with earnest love for souls, they will open their Bibles and present the Word.—Our Father Cares, p. 286.