---
title:  Antidote Against Sexual Immorality
date:  22/07/2026
---

`Read 1 Thessalonians 4:1–8. What does this passage say about the connection between sanctification and abstinence from sexual immorality?`

Though Paul was writing to someone else in the above texts, the principle can be applied across the board, to all Christians which still, though, leads to the question: What was going on in Corinth? Why all these problems?

Some in Corinth apparently believed that since the gospel set them free, they were allowed to do anything. They argued that just as the stomach was made for food, the body was made for sex, and sex for the body (1 Cor. 6:13). Paul responds that this is a misrepresentation of Christian freedom. The lack of integrity in sexual matters is inconsistent with Christian identity and is a misuse of the freedom granted to man through the gospel (Rom. 8:2, Gal. 5:13). We were set free from sin, not set “free” to commit it (Rom. 8:2; Rom. 6:18, 22). In fact, “the body is . . . for the Lord, and the Lord for the body” (1 Cor. 6:13). We belong to Christ (1 Cor. 6:15), and who we are must impact what we do. One thing is inextricably linked to the other. This is portrayed in 1 Corinthians 6 in three different ways.

First, we are identified as washed, sanctified, and justified “in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God” (1 Cor. 6:11, NKJV). The sins listed in 1 Corinthians 6:9, 10, as well as the sexual immorality denounced in 1 Corinthians 6:12–20, have no place in the lives of those who were washed, sanctified, and justified.

Second, we are members of Christ (1 Cor. 6:15). This means that we must be united with Christ (1 Cor. 6:17). Sexual immorality is a violation of that union (1 Cor. 6:13, 15). Whoever joins with a person in extramarital sexual intercourse becomes “one body” with him or her (1 Cor. 6:16). Union with Christ through the Spirit must determine Christian ethics in sexual matters.

Third, our bodies are “temples of the Holy Spirit” (1 Cor. 6:19, 20, NIV). The only way to live a holy life with integrity in sexual matters is by having an intimate relationship with Christ through the Holy Spirit. Elsewhere, Paul refers to the experience of being a temple of the Spirit in terms of presenting the body “as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God” (Rom. 12:1, ESV).

`Think about the wreckage that sexual sins have brought upon humanity. What should this tell us about how serious this issue should be for the Christian?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

This message concerns all our churches. You can never employ your faculty of hearing better than in hearkening to hear what the voice of God speaks to you in His Word. There is a rich and abundant promise to those who overcome. It is not enough to enter upon this warfare, we must pursue it to the end. We must know nothing of yielding. We must fight the good fight of faith to the very end. To the overcomer is promised the triumphal victory. “To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God.” Whatever was lost in the fall of Adam is more than restored in redemption. He that sitteth on the throne saith, “Behold, I make all things new” (Revelation 21:5).\
Let us look closely and critically to ourselves. Are not the vows we entered into at our baptism violated? Are we dead to the world and alive unto Christ? Are we seeking those things which are above, where Christ sitteth at the right hand of God? Is the cable cut which anchored us to the eternal Rock? Are we drifting with the current to perdition? Shall we make no effort to press and urge our passage upstream? Let us not hesitate longer, but vigorously apply the oars; and let us do our first works ere we make hopeless shipwreck.\
It is our work to know our special failings and sins, which cause darkness and spiritual feebleness, and quenched our first love. Is it worldliness? Is it selfishness? Is it the love of self-esteem? Is it striving to be first? Is it the sin of sensuality that is intensely active? Is it the sin of the Nicolaitans, turning the grace of God into lasciviousness? Is it the misuse and abuse of great light and opportunities and privileges, making boasted claims to wisdom and religious knowledge, while the life and character are inconsistent and immoral? Whatever it is that has been petted and cultivated until it has become strong and overmastering, make determined efforts to overcome, else you will be lost.—Ye Shall Receive Power, p. 361.

I have been shown that we live amid the perils of the last days. Because iniquity abounds, the love of many waxes cold. The word “many” refers to the professed followers of Christ. They are affected by the prevailing iniquity and backslide from God, but it is not necessary that they should be thus affected. The cause of this declension is that they do not stand clear from this iniquity. The fact that their love to God is waxing cold because iniquity abounds shows that they are, in some sense, partakers in this iniquity, or it would not affect their love for God and their zeal and fervor in His cause.\
A terrible picture of the condition of the world has been presented before me. Immorality abounds everywhere. Licentiousness is the special sin of this age. Never did vice lift its deformed head with such boldness as now. The people seem to be benumbed, and the lovers of virtue and true goodness are nearly discouraged by its boldness, strength, and prevalence. The iniquity which abounds is not merely confined to the unbeliever and the scoffer. Would that this were the case, but it is not. . . .\
Every Christian will have to learn to restrain his passions and be controlled by principle. . . .\
God has given you a habitation to care for and preserve in the best condition for His service and glory.—Reflecting Christ, p. 150.