---
title:  Marriage and Singleness
date:  23/07/2026
---

Paul’s affirmation that the body “is the temple of the Holy Spirit” (1 Cor. 6:19, NKJV) occurs in the context of a warning against sexual immorality. Being a temple of the Spirit is the only means to live a holy life. The church is a Christian community that distinguishes itself from the surrounding environment. It is the presence of the Holy Spirit that makes it possible.

`Read 1 Corinthians 6:19–7:9. How does this passage shed light on how one can put into practice the commandment to “flee from sexual immorality” (1 Cor. 6:18, ESV)?`

There are significant lessons about sexuality in 1 Corinthians 7. Roughly speaking, this chapter can be divided up into two sections: (1) instructions regarding marriage (1 Cor. 7:1–24) and (2) instructions regarding singleness (1 Cor. 7:25–40). First Corinthians 7 helps us understand that speaking about sexuality is important and necessary.

However, when reading 1 Corinthians 7, we must remember that Paul is responding to specific questions related to issues in the church of Corinth. Otherwise, some statements could lead to the impression that he has a low view of marriage, which is not the case (1 Tim. 4:1–3, 1 Tim. 5:14; also Heb. 13:4).

Remarkably, the command “flee from sexual immorality” in 1 Corinthians 6:18 (ESV) is bracketed by the idea of joining Christ (1 Cor. 6:17) and being a temple of the Spirit _(1 Cor. 6:19)_. Is there a better way of fleeing from sexual immorality? Of course not.

Also, God created sex, but it is to be enjoyed in marriage alone. Sex is a privilege of those in a male and female marriage, the only kind sanctioned in the Bible.

When saying “flee from sexual immorality,” Paul may have in mind the story of Joseph (Gen. 39:6–18). The Bible says that before the lustful advances of Potiphar’s wife, Joseph “fled out of the house” (Gen. 39:18, ESV). This is mentioned no fewer than four times in Genesis 39:6–18. The Bible doesn’t say it directly, but it is implied that Joseph waited to have sex only in marriage (Gen. 41:45). He was a man filled with the Holy Spirit (Gen. 41:38) and wanted to do what was right before God’s eyes.

`How can we, as a church, protect ourselves from the aberrant views of sexuality that dominate the culture?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

If those who are contemplating marriage would not have miserable, unhappy reflections after marriage, they must make it a subject of serious, earnest reflection now. This step taken unwisely is one of the most effective means of ruining the usefulness of young men and women. Life becomes a burden, a curse. No one can so effectually ruin a woman’s happiness and usefulness, and make life a heartsickening burden, as her own husband; and no one can do one hundredth part as much to chill the hopes and aspirations of a man, to paralyze his energies and ruin his influence and prospects, as his own wife. It is from the marriage hour that many men and women date their success or failure in this life, and their hopes of the future life.\
I wish I could make the youth see and feel their danger, especially the danger of making unhappy marriages.\
Marriage is something that will influence and affect your life both in this world and in the world to come. A sincere Christian will not advance his plans in this direction without the knowledge that God approves his course. He will not want to choose for himself, but will feel that God must choose for him. We are not to please ourselves, for Christ pleased not Himself. I would not be understood to mean that anyone is to marry one whom he does not love. This would be sin. But fancy and the emotional nature must not be allowed to lead on to ruin. God requires the whole heart, the supreme affections.—The Adventist Home, p. 43.

What ought every Christian to do when brought into the trying position which tests the soundness of religious principle? With a firmness worthy of imitation he should say frankly: “I am a conscientious Christian. I believe the seventh day of the week to be the Sabbath of the Bible. Our faith and principles are such that they lead in opposite directions. We cannot be happy together, for if I follow on to gain a more perfect knowledge of the will of God, I shall become more and more unlike the world and assimilated to the likeness of Christ. If you continue to see no loveliness in Christ, no attractions in the truth, you will love the world, which I cannot love, while I shall love the things of God, which you cannot love. Spiritual things are spiritually discerned. Without spiritual discernment you will be unable to see the claims of God upon me, or to realize my obligations to the Master whom I serve; therefore you will feel that I neglect you for religious duties. You will not be happy; you will be jealous on account of the affections which I give to God, and I shall be alone in my religious belief. When your views shall change, when your heart shall respond to the claims of God, and you shall learn to love my Saviour, then our relationship may be renewed.”\
The believer thus makes a sacrifice for Christ which his conscience approves, and which shows that he values eternal life too highly to run the risk of losing it. He feels that it would be better to remain unmarried than to link his interest for life with one who chooses the world rather than Jesus, and who would lead away from the cross of Christ.—Counsels for the Church, pp. 122, 123.