---
title:  Innocent Blood
date:   12/11/2016
---

### Innocent Blood

#### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON:

Job 10; Isaiah 53:6; Romans 3:10–20; Job 15:14–16; Job 1:18–20; Matthew 6:34.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “Faith is being sure of what we hope for. It is being certain [sure] of what we do not see” (Hebrews 11:1, NIrV).

ALGERIAN-BORN WRITER ALBERT CAMUS struggled with the question of human suffering. In his book, The Plague,2 he used a plague as a symbol (word-picture) for the ills that bring pain and suffering upon humans. He wrote a story about a little boy who dies a terrible death from a bad disease. Afterward a priest, who had been a witness to the child’s awful death, said to a doctor who had been there too: “That sort of thing is disgusting because it passes our human understanding. But perhaps we should love what we cannot understand.” The doctor answered angrily, “No, Father. I have a very different idea of love. And until my dying day, I shall refuse to love a scheme [plan] of things in which children are put to torture.”—Adapted from Albert Camus, The Plague (New York: First Vintage International Edition, 1991), page 218.

This story shows what we have seen in Job: weak answers given by Job’s friends to what is not a simple problem. Job knew, as did the doctor here, that the “weak” answers did not solve real problems. So that is the challenge: How do we  nd answers that make sense of what so often makes no sense? This week we will continue our search for answers.

##### Definitions
1. **innocent**—not guilty.
2. **Plague**—a disease that causes death and that spreads quickly to a large number of people. Also, a large number of harmful or annoying things.