---
title:  JOB’S COMPLAINT
date:   13/11/2016
---

### JOB’S COMPLAINT

Job 10

Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar have a point: God does punish evil. But that point does not apply in Job’s situation. Job’s suffering is not caused by God’s just (fair) punishment. God is not punishing Job for his sins, as He would do with Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.3 And Job is not reaping what he had sown. No, Job is a righteous (holy) man, and God Himself says so (read Job 1:8). So Job does not deserve what has happened to him, and he knows that he does not deserve it. That is what makes Job’s complaints so hard and bitter.

`Read Job 10. What is Job saying to God? And why does it make so much sense when you think about Job’s situation?`

In times of great suffering, have not those who believed in God asked the same questions? Why, Lord, did You bother to create me at all? Or, Why are You doing this to me? Or, Would it not have been better if I had never been born than to have been created and faced this?

Again, what makes it all the harder for Job to understand is that he knows that he has been faithful to God. He cries out to Him: “ ‘You already know I’m [I am] not guilty. No one can save me from your powerful hand’ ” (Job 10:7, NIrV).

There is a difficult puzzle here: his friends may say differently, but Job is not suffering because of his sin. The book itself teaches the opposite: Job is suffering here just because he is so faithful. The  rst two chapters of the book make that point. Job has no way of knowing what the cause of his suffering is. And if he did, it probably would have made his bitterness and frustration worse.

Job’s situation is rather special. But it is also universal4 in that it is dealing with the question of suffering, a suffering that seems so much greater than whatever evil someone might have done.

`What can you say to someone who believes that he or she is suffering unfairly?`

##### Definitions
3. **Korah, Dathan, and Abiram**— three men who rebelled against Moses. So God punished them by opening up the ground under their feet. See Numbers 16:1–40 for details.
4. **universal**—done or experienced by everyone.