---
title:  Innocent Blood?
date:   14/11/2016
---

### INNOCENT BLOOD?

1 Kings 8:46

We often hear people talk about the question of “innocent” suffering. The Bible even uses the words “innocent blood” (Isaiah 59:7; Jeremiah 22:17; Joel 3:19). It uses the words in situations of a beating, or even murder, when someone does not deserve what happens to him or her. To understand the meaning of “innocent blood” is to understand that our world is  lled with many examples of it.

But the Bible does talk about how real human sinfulness is. This brings up a good question about the meaning of “innocent.” If everyone has sinned, if everyone has broken God’s law, then who is truly innocent? As someone once said, “Your birth certi cate is proof of your guilt.”

Bible thinkers for many hundreds of years have debated the exact nature of the human relationship to sin. But the Bible is clear that sin has touched the lives of all people on earth. The idea of human sinfulness is not found only in the New Testament. Instead, the New Testament just adds more to what was written in the Old Testament.

`Read 1 Kings 8:46; Psalm 51:5; Proverbs 20:9; Isaiah 53:6; and Romans 3:10–20. What do these verses teach about how real sin is?`

The Bible is very clear about the subject. But anyone who has ever known that the Lord is good and holy knows how real human sinfulness is. In that sense, who among us (not including the question of babies and young children for now) is truly “innocent”?

But that is not really the point. Job is a sinner. In that sense he is not innocent, any more than his own children are not innocent. And still, what had he done, or they done, to deserve the end that came upon them? Is this not the same question that all people ask about suffering? Job’s friends might argue about “defenses of clay” (Job 13:12, NKJV). But Job knows that what is happening to him is not something that he deserves.

`How does the experience of knowing God and His holiness help us to understand our great need of the Cross? (This is true when we are aware of [know of] our sinfulness.)`