---
title:  UNFAIR DEATHS
date:   15/11/2016
---

### UNFAIR DEATHS

Job 15:14–16

`Read Job 15:14–16. What truth is Eliphaz giving to Job?`

Again, Eliphaz is speaking truth (as are the others). This time he is speaking about the sinfulness of all people. Sin is an unchangeable fact of life on earth. So is suffering. And, as we also know, all human suffering comes from sin. And there is no question that God can use suffering to teach us important lessons. “God has always tried His people in the furnace of affliction [suffering]. It is in the heat of the furnace that the worthless and impure [not pure] material is separated from the true gold of the Christian character [thoughts; feelings; actions].” —Adapted from Ellen G. White, Patriarchs [Forefathers and Leaders] and Prophets [Special Messengers], page 129.

But there is a deeper problem with suffering. What about the times when no good comes from it? What about the suffering of those who do not have the worthless material separated from the gold in their character because they are killed quickly? What about those who suffer, never knowing the true God or anything about Him? What about those whose sufferings only made them bitter, angry, and hateful toward God? We cannot ignore these examples or try to come up with simple answers to such difficult issues. To do so would perhaps make us guilty of the same errors as Job’s friends when they blamed him for his suffering.

Also, what good comes from the end of animals in a forest  re who slowly are burned alive? Or what about the thousands of people killed in a natural disaster (earthquake; storm)? Or what about people killed in war? What possible lessons could they have learned, or their families, when their families were swept away with them?

What lesson might Job and his friends learn? What defeat will Satan face through Job’s faithfulness? The end of the lives of suffering people certainly does not seem fair. The fact is that these things are not fair. And they are not right.

We face many of the same challenges today. A six-yearold dies of cancer, and that is fair? A 20-year-old college girl is pulled from her car and raped. Is that fair? A 35-year-old mother of three is killed in a car accident. Is that fair? What about the 19,000 Japanese killed in the 2011 Tohoku earthquake? Were all 19,000 guilty of something that made their deaths a just (fair) punishment? If not, then their deaths were not fair either.

These are the hard questions.