---
title:  SUFFICIENT (ENOUGH) FOR THE DAY
date:   16/11/2016
---

### SUFFICIENT (ENOUGH) FOR THE DAY . . . 

Genesis 4:8

`Read Job 1:18–20; Genesis 4:8; Exodus 12:29, 30; 2 Samuel 11:17; Jeremiah 38:6; Matthew 14:10; and Hebrews 11:35–38. Think about the quick deaths of those in the verses. Then ask yourself the question: How fair was life treating them?`

The Bible shows a rough fact about life in our sinful world. The fact is that evil and suffering are real. A quick reading of the Word of God could give anyone the wrong idea that life here is fair and just and good. And it could also give the wrong idea, too, that if only we remain faithful to God, suffering will not come. Surely faithfulness can earn great rewards now. But that does not mean it blocks or stops suffering and pain. Just ask Job.

In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus gives a powerful sermon on why we need to trust God and not worry about what we will eat or drink or wear. And Jesus uses examples from nature as clear lessons on why we can trust in God’s goodness to meet our needs. He then includes these famous words: “ ‘So don’t [do not] worry about tomorrow. Tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough of its own’ ” (Matthew 6:34, NIrV).

Notice, sufficient (enough) unto the day is the evil thereof (Matthew 6:34, KJV). Jesus is not denying the presence in our lives, even the daily presence, of evil (from a Greek word that can mean “badness”). If anything, He is doing the opposite. He is warning about the presence of evil in our daily lives. How could He not? As the Lord, He knew more about the evil in the world than any of us ever could, and all of us certainly know a lot about it already.

`Who has not tasted a bit (or maybe a lot) of just how unfair and bitter life can be? How can paying attention to Jesus’ warning about this evil in our daily lives help to give us comfort and strength?`
