---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   18/11/2016
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:

Last Sabbath’s introduction began with Albert Camus, who wrote a lot about his struggle for answers. He struggled with the question of suffering and the question of life’s meaning in general. As with most atheists,5 he did not  nd good answers. His most famous quote shows how little he knew: “There is but one truly serious philosophical6 problem. That is suicide. Judging whether life is or is not worth living adds up to answering the fundamental [basic; very important] question of philosophy.”—Adapted from The Myth7 of Sisyphus8 and Other Essays (New York: Vintage Books, 1955), page 3. For sure, the question of human suffering is not an easy one to answer. The book of Job pulls back a veil and shows us a bigger picture than what we might have seen in other books. Even when we read it all, the book still leaves many questions unanswered.

But there is an important difference between those who struggle for answers to the question of suffering without God and those who do so with God. Yes, the problem of pain and suffering becomes more difficult when you believe that God is around. But we have what atheists such as Camus do not have: we have the knowledge of answers from the Bible. (There is proof that Camus later in life had wanted to be baptized, but he soon was killed in a car accident.) We have the hope that “He [God] will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or sadness. There will be no more crying or pain. Things are no longer the way they used to be” (Revelation 21:4, NIrV). Even if someone did not believe this promise or many of the others in the Bible, that person would have to admit how much nicer life would be now to have at least that hope. He or she also would have to admit that having this hope would be much better than living here, with all its hard work and struggles, and then dying forever, with it all meaning nothing.

### DISCUSSION QUESTION:

- `One argument that people bring up about the question of evil is the idea that Well, yes, there is evil in the world, but we have more of the good than the evil. The  rst question that comes to mind in answer to that argument would be, How does one know that the good outweighs the evil? How does one make that comparison? The second question would be, Even if true, what good would that idea do for Job (or others) in their suffering? How would you respond to (answer) the idea that good somehow balances out the evil?`

##### Definitions
5. **atheists**—persons who do not believe that God exists.
6. **philosophical**—of or relating to philosophy, which is the study of ideas about knowledge, truth, and the nature and meaning of life.
7. **Myth**—a story that was told in an ancient (very old) culture to explain a practice, belief, or natural occurrence.
8. **Sisyphus**—a legendary (imaginary) king of ancient (very old) Corinth who was punished by the Greek gods. His eternal punishment was to roll a heavy rock up a hill every day, only to have it roll down again as it nears the top.