---
title:  God’s Plan for Humans Before Sin and After Sin
date:   29/09/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Genesis 1:26, 27; 1 John 4:7, 8, 16; Genesis 3:16–19; Genesis 11:1–9; Deuteronomy 7:6–11.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “The LORD took Abram outside and said, ‘Look up at the sky. Count the stars, if you can.’ Then he said to him, ‘That’s [that is] how many children will be born into your family.’ Abram believed the LORD. The LORD was pleased with Abram because he believed. So Abram’s faith made him right with the LORD” (Genesis 15:5, 6 NIrV).

THE STORY ABOUT GOD’S PEOPLE started when God made humans. But humans turned away from God and sinned. We need to understand God’s plan for humans when He made the earth and His plan to save us after we sinned. Then we will better understand God’s plan for the church. What is God’s plan for the church? God wants church members to have unity. Unity means we agree with and support each other.

The first chapters of Genesis show that God wanted humans to be one family and to stay that way forever. Sadly, sin destroyed this peace. Sin caused all the separation and fighting between people. Look at what happened after Adam and Eve ate the forbidden fruit and God asked them about their sin (read Genesis 3:11). Adam blamed Eve, and Eve blamed the snake. But a long time before humans sinned, God made a plan to save us. Part of God’s plan is to make us new so that we may live with Him again.

This week we will read about Adam and Eve’s story and also Abraham’s story. Their stories show us God’s plan to save sinners and bring them back to agreement with Him.