---
title:  Agreement starts with love
date:   30/09/2018
---

Genesis 1 and 2 tell us that God made everything on this earth in one week. These two chapters also tell us that all the animals and humans that God made were happy and friendly. There was perfect peace and agreement between all living things on earth. Look at what God says when He finishes making everything. God says everything He made is “very good” (Genesis 1:31). Yes, God means that everything He made is beautiful. But “very good” also means that there was nothing evil on the earth and no fighting anywhere. God’s first plan when He made the earth included peace on earth between every living thing. Wow! God made the earth a beautiful place! Everything was perfect and worthy of its Maker. God’s first plan for the earth included peace, agreement, and love. 

`Read Genesis 1:26, 27. What do these verses teach us about how special humans are? How do these verses show us that humans are more special than anything else God made?`

Genesis says that God made humans in His “image [the same in shape, body, face, and mind; a copy] and likeness [the same as something else]” (Genesis 1:26, ICB). What else did God make in His image besides humans? Nothing. So, that makes humans very special. “So God created humans in his own image. He created them to be like [the same as] himself. He created them male and female” (Genesis 1:27, ERV). Many Bible experts have asked: What does it mean to be made in God’s image? Does it mean we look the same as God only in ways that we can see on the outside? Or are we the same as God on the inside too? If yes, then how are we and God the same? What makes God who He is? People have many different answers to these questions. But everyone agrees that the Bible shows us that God is love. 

`Read 1 John 4:7, 8, 16. How do these verses help us understand where love comes from and how we were made? How did love help everything get along together?`  

God is love. Humans also can love. We can love in deep ways. The other things God made cannot love the way we do. So, we can say that our being made in God’s image means we can love God and other people very deeply.