---
title:  What damage did sin cause?
date:   01/10/2018
---

Sin made many bad things happen. Sin caused an awful separation between all living things that God made. Worse, sin started hate, disagreements, and separations between humans that continue to this day. We see an example of this disagreement happen right away in Adam and Eve’s behavior after they sin. What do they do? They blame others for their sin (Genesis 3:12, 13). We do the same thing, right? 

`How do Genesis 3:16–19 and Genesis 4:1–15 show us the bad things that happened to people because of sin? What did sin do to the peaceful planet God made?`

Adam did not obey God. Adam’s sin made many bad things happen. Over time, sin changed everything God made. Sin changed the earth. Sin also changed human hearts. Cain and Abel’s story is an example of how sin changed human hearts. Cain and Abel were brothers. Brothers should love and care for each other, right? But Cain wanted to follow his own selfish wishes instead of following God’s commands. Cain’s selfish heart caused an awful problem between him and his brother, Abel. The problem between them ended in death: Cain killed Abel. How did Cain behave before he killed his brother? He was mad at God (Genesis 4:5). Cain’s anger at God led to Cain’s anger with his own brother. 

After Cain killed Abel, the people on the earth grew more and more evil. “They thought only about evil things all the time” (Genesis 6:5, ERV). This evil led to the Flood that destroyed everything God made on earth. But God did not give up on humans. He saved a small group of humans: Noah and his family. God used Noah and his family to fill the earth with people again. 

After the Flood, God gives a promise to Noah and his family. God promises to never destroy the earth with a flood again. God puts His rainbow in the sky to help Noah and his family remember and trust His promise. The rainbow shows Noah’s family how much God loved them (Genesis 9:12–17; Isaiah 54:7–10). The rainbow also shows Noah what God is going to do. God is going to go ahead with His first plan that He made before the Flood: God wants a family. He wants a human family who loves Him and is loyal to His law. 

`How does sin destroy peace? What can you do right now to help the people around you to have more peace?`