---
title:  More examples of people who did not get along
date:   02/10/2018
---

`Genesis 11:1-9 talks about humans who do not get along. What happened in these verses that makes this problem worse?` 

What happened after the Flood? The Bible tells us that some people decided to build a city and a tall tower in the land of Shinar. Today, Shinar is southern Iraq (Genesis 11:2). Shinar was part of a big area named Mesopotamia. Mesopotamia was very beautiful. This land was between two rivers: the Tigris River and the Euphrates River. Before the Tower of Babel was built, all the people on Earth spoke the same language. But after the Tower of Babel was built, things changed. God forced humans to move away from the Tower of Babel. They moved all over the earth. God caused them to speak many different languages. 

Scientists who study the past make it clear that a lot of people have always lived in Mesopotamia from the start of history. The Sumerians were one of the first people who lived there. The Sumerians were the first people to write on clay tablets. They built strong houses and made beautiful jewelry and tools. Sumerians also built temples to different gods. These temples were as big as towers. 

Many of Noah’s children and their families went to live in the land of Shinar after the Flood. But soon they forgot the God of Noah and the promises He made to never again destroy the earth by a flood. So, the people decided to build a tower. Their building the Tower of Babel showed that the people in Shinar were very smart and skillful. They built the tower because they wanted to “be famous” (Genesis 11:4, ERV). “It was God’s plan for true religion to help men to get along together. But men started to worship false gods. False worship separated men from God and from each other. That is why the people did not finish building the Tower of Babel. Men thought that building the Tower of Babel had the power to help them get along again. But this plan failed.”—The SDA Bible Commentary [explanation], volume 1, pages 284, 285, adapted.

When Adam and Eve sinned, sin separated humans from each other. Their sin also destroyed God’s first plan for all living things to get along with each other. Their sin caused humans to separate into many different groups. Many of these groups do not get along to this day.