---
title:  Abraham, the father of God’s people
date:   03/10/2018
---

What are the top three religions on the earth that worship only one God? They are the religions of the Jews, Christians, and Muslims. All three religions have Abraham as their Father. What does that mean for Christians? Abraham is the spiritual father of the Christian religion. He is an example of how God wants us to serve Him. When God asked Abraham to leave his country in Mesopotamia, God made Abraham a promise. God told Abraham, “ ‘Good will come to all the families of the earth because of you’ ” (Genesis 12:3, ERV). What was the good gift that came to all people on the earth because of Abraham? The answer is Jesus. 

`Hebrews 11:8–19; Romans 4:1–3; and Galatians 3:29 talk about Abraham’s faith. What do these verses tell us about the faith that Abraham had? How does the example of Abraham’s faith teach us about getting along together? How do these verses help us understand how important it is for Christians to be in agreement?`

Abraham is the father of all believers. As our spiritual father, he teaches us important rules about Christian agreement. First, Abraham obeys God (Hebrews 11:8). Second, Abraham hopes in God’s promises (Hebrews 11:9, 10). Third, Abraham believes that God will give him a son and many future children the same as there are many stars. Because Abraham believes God’s promises, God makes Abraham right with Himself by faith (Romans 4:1–3). Fourth, Abraham trusts in God’s plan to save him. The biggest test to Abraham’s faith happens when God asks Abraham to put Isaac to death (Genesis 22:1–19; Hebrews 11:17–19).

The Old Testament says that Abraham was God’s friend (2 Chronicles 20:7; Isaiah 41:8). Abraham lived a life of faith. He was loyal to God. Abraham obeyed God. Abraham trusted in God’s promises. Abraham show us what our Christian lives should be now.

`Think about what you do and say over the next few days. What can you do to make sure that your words and actions show what you believe?`