---
title:  God’s chosen people
date:   04/10/2018
---

God chose Abraham to serve Him. By choosing Abraham, God also chose Abraham’s future children, the people of Israel. God chose Israel to show who He was to everyone on earth. God’s choice of Abraham and Israel showed God’s love. This choice was at the center of God’s plan to save all humans after the separation and suffering that sin caused. Our study of the Bible shows us that God works to connect us with Himself again and to make us new. The Bible shows us that an important part of that plan is God’s Special Agreement, or Covenant, with the people of Israel. 

`In Deuteronomy 7:6–11, we learn that God chose Israel as His people. Why did God do that?` 

God’s love for all humans is the reason He chose Israel as His people. God made a Special Agreement with Abraham and his family. As part of the agreement, God told Israel about Himself. He gave Israel this knowledge and asked them to share it with their children forever. God also wanted Israel to be a part of His plan to save the people on this earth (Psalm 67:2). God’s choice of Israel to be His special people shows God’s wonderful love. The people of Israel had no reason to brag about anything. They did nothing special to win God’s love (Deuteronomy 7:7). God does not choose the strong and powerful to serve Him. He chooses people who know that they are weak and know they are nothing without God (1 Corinthians 1:26–31).

Look at how God blessed Israel: “God wanted to bless Israel more than any group of people on the earth. God gave Israel every spiritual gift. God did not hold back anything good from them. He gave them everything they needed to become examples of God’s goodness to everyone on the earth.

“God planned for Israel’s obedience to be a witness to other countries. God had the power to give Israel wisdom and the skill to make things. God was their teacher. He had the power to make Israel holy when they chose to obey His law. If Israel obeyed, God promised to never let them get sick from any diseases. God also promised to make them very smart. God wanted everyone to see how much He blessed Israel. God planned for Israel to be a kingdom of holy leaders and princes. God gave Israel everything they needed to become the top nation on earth.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 288, adapted.