---
title:  Additional thought
date:   05/10/2018
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Creation [How God made the heavens and the earth],” pages 44–51, and “The Call [God’s choosing] of Abraham,” pages 125–131, in Patriarchs [fathers and leaders in Old Testament times] and Prophets [special messengers].

What was God’s first plan for humans when He made them? We can learn the answer by looking at His plan for the family (Genesis 2:21–24) and for the Sabbath in Eden. God made the Sabbath for all people to enjoy, as Jesus tells us in Mark 2:27, 28. Before God chose Israel to be His people and before there was any sin, God made the seventh day holy. God’s act shows us that the Sabbath is for everyone. The Sabbath is a powerful truth. Try to see in your mind how different life can be if we all keep the Sabbath! God made the Sabbath a day of rest. He made the Sabbath to remind humans of their connection to Him and to each other. “God made the Sabbath and the family in Eden. In God’s plan the two are joined together by ties that cannot be broken. On the Sabbath day, more than any other day, we can live the life of Eden. God planned for members of the family to work and study together. God planned for every father to be the holy leader of his own family. And God planned for both father and mother to be the teachers and companions of their children.”—Ellen G. White, Child Guidance [showing the way], page 535, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1.	God made Eve from Adam’s side. How does that word picture show us the love connection that God wants a husband and wife to have? God wants to have a love connection with His people too. What does the love connection between a husband and wife tell us about the connection God wants to have with His people?` 

`2.	The story about the Tower of Babel shows us that God did not plan for humans to speak different languages or to belong to separate race groups. How can we find a way around these separations today? How can the church experience agreement, even if it is made up of people of many countries and languages?`

`3.	God chose Seventh-day Adventists the same as He chose Old Testament Israel to serve Him. What lessons can we learn from Old Testament Israel to help us serve and obey God today?`