---
title:  Removing the Chains
date:  02/03/2019
---

**Introduction**: 2 Cor. 4:3, 4; 2 Pet. 3:9; Rev. 14:6, 12

We were sitting in an empty classroom at Michigan State University—two people, on two separate life paths, with two completely different worldviews. As Josh continued to tell me in full detail how much he despised Christianity, I asked him one of my last survey questions, “What evidence would you need in order to believe in a God or a higher power?” With his mind already fully made up on being an atheist, he plainly stated, “There is no evidence. Even if He presented Himself to me now, I wouldn’t believe it.”

How much it broke my heart hearing that sentence, because I saw the chain of lies that he was trapped in. A chain of lies that most times, our hearts won’t let us break out of. In fact, they were the same lies that I used to be trapped in, and that much of our world is trapped in today too. It’s the kind of blindness that is talked about in 2 Corinthians. “But even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing, whose minds the god of this age has blinded, who do not believe, lest the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine on them” (2 Cor. 4:3, 4, NKJV).

It is a blindness that Satan has spread throughout our homes, schools, work places, in our politics, relationships, cultures, societies, and our world, and that he continues to spread with every passing second. Thankfully, the Bible says in Revelation, “Then I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth—to every nation, tribe, tongue, and people” (Rev. 14:6, NKJV). The only message of hope that is able to lift the veil and heal the blind.

Revelation brings to light the fact that Satan will seem to have the victory in the last days by getting most of the world to choose to worship the beast and receive his mark. But God, with all of His glory, will have His remnant. The Lord will have His people who will stand against the chain of lies that Satan has encompassed our world with. In the three angels’ messages we see that God’s people will stand firm on His truth, and the everlasting gospel will be preached. “Here is the patience of the saints; here are those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus” (verse 12, NKJV).

During this study, that is what we will be seeking to have—a desire to be God’s remnant people and to understand the message that Revelation gives to us in these last days. God’s desire is that no one should perish but that all would come to repentance (2 Pet. 3:9). Thankfully, with that beautiful desire, He made a way for every single one of us through His Son, Jesus Christ.

---

_Halee Boughton, East Lansing, Michigan, USA_