---
title:  God’s Rallying Cry
date:  03/03/2019
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 14:6

General Dwight Eisenhower had been preparing for months to attack the Nazi’s stronghold in Normandy. His well-trained Allied forces were waiting for the marching orders, and D-day was set in stone. On June 6, 1944, he wrote these fateful words, “The eyes of the world are upon you. The hopes and prayers of liberty-loving people everywhere march with you.” He then added, “Your task will not be an easy one. Your enemy is well trained, well equipped and battle-hardened. He will fight savagely. But this is the year 1944! . . . The tide has turned! The free men of the world are marching together to Victory!”1

In the great conflict between Christ and Satan, D-day is not a future occurrence; it is now. The enemy of souls is fighting savagely because, in biblical terms, “ ‘he knows he has but a short time’ ” (Rev. 12:12, NABRE). Revelation 13 unfolds the actions of Satan, who has devised plans to secure worship for himself using church and state. Both champion the cause of creating a mark (a false day of worship) that will inevitably be the test for every nation, tribe, tongue, and people (Rev. 13:7, 8).

Heaven’s response to the crisis is found in Revelation 14:6. The tide turns as it outlines God’s rallying cry prior to the second coming of Christ. This message is delivered universally, as indicated by the angel flying in the midst of heaven. The words with a loud voice tell us that the message will be given so that all will hear. The message includes a call to worship the only true God on the true day of worship. This means that all people must receive light in order to choose the right side in this great conflict.

In Greek, the word angel translates as “messenger,” one who brings glad tidings. As Seventh-day Adventists, we cannot read this passage without understanding that God has called us to proclaim a distinct message to all people. He has also promised us His presence (Matt. 28:18–20). The tide turned long ago, and though there is a battle-hardened enemy who will fight savagely, we have a victorious Christ who stands by us as we fulfill His great commission.

**React**

`What are some biblical examples of God’s promised assurance in fulfilling the gospel commission?`

---

<sup>1. “D-day Statement to Soldiers, Sailor, and Airmen of the Allied Expeditionary Force, 6/44,” Collection DDE-EPRE: Eisenhower, Dwight D: Papers, Pre-Presidential, 1916–1952; Dwight D. Eisenhower Library; National Archives and Records Administration, National Archives, accessed May 4, 2018, https://www.archives.gov/historical-docs/todays-doc/?dod-date=606.</sup>

_Jermaine Gayle, Bath, Michigan, USA_