---
title:  On Display
date:  04/03/2019
---

**Logos**: Rev. 14:6–12

Many Christians want to live in anonymity away from public scrutiny. They might feel insecure about being on display as a true follower of Jesus and may not think themselves good enough or capable enough to live as a demonstration before others. Yet the three angels’ messages prepare a people who are on display before the universe just the way God intends them to be.

**The First Angel (Ezek. 20:12; Rom. 12:1; 1 Cor. 6:19; 10:31; Rev. 4:11; 14:6–7)**

Revelation is designed to get God’s people ready to see Him at His return. At the heart of the book, three angels sound the most important messages for those living on the edge of eternity. Their bold proclamations are a call to restore lost truth and warn the world against false worship.

The first angel sounds his message with a call to fear, glorify, and worship God (Rev 14:7). Some might think it strange that God wants us to fear Him. While the Greek word for fear can mean “to be afraid of one,” it can also mean “to treat with deference or reverential obedience.”1 God wants us to reverence Him by obeying as He leads us.

This reverence leads into the call for us to glorify God (verse 7). He is looking for people who don’t compartmentalize Him to one day a week but honor Him with all of their being (1 Cor. 10:31). God wants us to recognize that we are His and His Spirit dwells within us (1 Cor. 6:19). He is asking for a people to make His glory the focus of their lives. Every decision made is a chance to lift up God and do His will. It’s about living life as an act of worship before Him (Rom. 12:1), which is the third component of the first angel’s message. God is calling people back to Sabbath worship (Rev. 14:7) as a sign that they are completely devoted to following Him (Ezek. 20:12). Revelation 14:7 clearly alludes to Exodus 20:11—the Sabbath commandment, not just as a day to worship but also as the day to worship in recognition of our Creator. God is worthy of our worship because He is our Creator (Rev. 4:11), and this sign of God’s power is something Satan directly attacks.

A careful comparison of Revelation 14:7 and Exodus 20:11 will demonstrate that the entire verse from Exodus is not quoted. Revelation 14:7 says, “Worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea,” and instead of finishing with “and all that in them is,” he says, “and the fountains of waters.” Why? “Fountains of waters” are called out in the context of judgment. “The hour of [God’s] judgment has come” (Rev. 14:7, NKJV). “Fountains of waters” refers to Genesis 7:11, when the fountains of God’s judgment were poured out on the earth during the Flood. The first angel’s message is saying, in the last days there is going to be a judgment, and if you want to be ready when Jesus comes, you need to be worshiping Him, honoring Him, and being loyal to Him no matter the cost.

**The Other Angels (Rev 14:8–11; 18:2, 3; 20:9)**

The second angel’s message tells us that God has triumphed over Satan by announcing, “Babylon is fallen” (Rev. 14:8). The name Babylon means confusion. The ancient city’s teachings on death, image worship, and sun worship constituted a false religious system that stood directly against God’s truth. In Revelation, Babylon is the symbol for all false, man-made religious systems that spread confusion among all nations (Rev. 18:2, 3). This is a message that God has emerged victorious and truth has prevailed.

The third angel sounds the most serious warning ever given to humanity against worshiping the beast (Rev. 14:9–11). It is a warning that must be taken seriously with consequences of “fire and brimstone” (verse 10). The scene of that torment is given in greater detail in chapter 20, where the wrath of God is poured out in the form of a devouring fire (verse 9). Those who worship the beast will not be written in God’s book of life. They have made their decision to follow their own will rather than God’s. As a result, God casts them away from His presence. “Anyone not found written in the Book of Life was cast into the lake of fire” (verse 15, NKJV).

**The Everlasting Gospel (Matt. 24:14; Rev. 14:4, 6, 12, 14, 15)**

As these three angels give their messages, God is telling people all over the world what His faithful followers look like. They are described as commandment keepers and possessing the faith of Jesus Christ (Rev. 14:12). This is the culminating experience of accepting the gospel and following all Bible truth. Revelation describes this outworking of truth in the heart with the phrase describing its fullness, “the everlasting gospel” (verse 6). The gospel is what transforms us into faithful followers of Christ for the world to see.

We become the demonstration to the world of biblical Christianity. God’s people are not hiding in fear but proclaiming with boldness the everlasting gospel to the world (verse 6; Matt. 24:14). Revelation 14:4 reads, “These are the ones . . .” (NKJV), and verse 12 continues to point out God’s people, “Here are those . . .” (NKJV). God has a people prepared to meet Him when He comes back, and this group is on public display. When the gospel transforms us, the world cannot help but notice!

**React**

`In what way is the gospel best communicated: (a) through spoken words, (b) through intentional acts of kindness, (c) at church, or (d) in my everyday life? Why?`

---

<sup>1. W. E. Vine, Merrill F. Unger, and William White Jr., Vine’s Complete Expository Dictionary of Old and New Testament Words (Nashville, TN: Thomas Nelson, 1985).</sup>

_Daniel McGrath, Cedar Springs, Michigan, USA_