---
title:  Faithful Men
date:  05/03/2019
---

**Testimony**: Rev. 14:6–12

“The theme of greatest importance is the third angel’s message, embracing the messages of the first and second angels. All should understand the truths contained in these messages and demonstrate them in daily life, for this is essential to salvation. We shall have to study earnestly, prayerfully, in order to understand these grand truths; and our power to learn and comprehend will be taxed to the utmost.”1

“To prepare a people to stand in the day of God, a great work of reform was to be accomplished. God saw that many of His professed people were not building for eternity, and in His mercy He was about to send a message of warning to arouse them from their stupor and lead them to make ready for the coming of the Lord.

“ . . .The first of these warnings announces the approaching judgment. . . . This message is declared to be a part of ‘the everlasting gospel.’ The work of preaching the gospel has not been committed to angels, but has been entrusted to men. Holy angels have been employed in directing this work, they have in charge the great movements for the salvation of men; but the actual proclamation of the gospel is performed by the servants of Christ upon the earth.

“Faithful men, who were obedient to the promptings of God’s Spirit and the teachings of His word, were to proclaim this warning to the world. They were those who had taken heed to the ‘sure word of prophecy,’ the ‘light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the daystar arise.’ 2 Peter 1:19. They had been seeking the knowledge of God more than all hid treasures, counting it ‘better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold.’ Proverbs 3:14. And the Lord revealed to them the great things of the kingdom. ‘The secret of the Lord is with them that fear Him; and He will show them His covenant.’ Psalm 25:14.” 2

**React**

`Why is it so important that humanity was entrusted with the proclamation of the gospel? What could we as Christians be missing out on by not fulfilling our responsibility?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, vol. 12, p. 212.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 311, 312.</sup>

_Isaí McGrath, Cedar Springs, Michigan, USA_