---
title:  Accepting His Provision
date:  06/03/2019
---

**How-to**: Matthew 13; Revelation 14

Christ’s atonement on the cross is an offer of salvation to anyone who is willing to accept it. Imagine someone drowning in a lake when, suddenly, a life preserver lands in front of the person. The option of rescue is available, and it is now up to the drowning individual to reach out and grab ahold of the life preserver. In the final events of the great controversy, God presents a final message of mercy to the entire world, giving them the opportunity to be saved.

In the end times, God has a final sorting process to figure out who has taken hold of that life preserver and who has not. Just like the produce that fruit farmers ship to facilities with quality control conveyer lines, those who are bad will be sorted out from the good. How can we make sure that we accept His provision and deny the mark of the beast? Here are some suggestions: Study the Bible (Ps. 119:11). There is a storm of false doctrine ready to ensnare anyone who does not diligently study their Bible. We must have a good understanding of Scripture so that we are not lured away by unsound doctrine. The best way to discern between truth and error is to be so familiar with the truth that when the slightest bit of error is presented, we will easily be able to tell the difference.

Focus on Jesus (2 Cor. 3:18). One reason why we may reject salvation is that we love sin. As we behold the Lamb of God on the cross of Calvary, we will fall more in love with Him, and the things of this world will grow strangely dim. We are counseled to spend a thoughtful hour each day in contemplation of the life of Christ, especially the closing scenes.1

Look forward to the second coming of Jesus (Luke 12:35–40). If we have the correct understanding of the times we are living in, our hearts will be filled with joy as we look forward to Jesus’ second coming. It will be difficult for doubts and discouragements to steal our blessed hope and for us to become lazy in our devotion to God. As the end draws nearer, God’s people will be faced with a tremendous amount of temptations and deceptions. Our only safety will be found in our reliance on God’s ability to get us through.

**React**

`1. Why do you think deception is so dangerous?`

`2. What can you do to counteract Satan’s efforts to deceive the masses?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 83.</sup>

_Chris Matts, East Lansing, Michigan, USA_