---
title:  "The Final Pages: From Fear to Hope"
date:  07/03/2019
---

**Opinion**: 2 Tim. 1:7; Rev. 1:3; 12:12

We believe that we are now living in the time of the end. In the book of Revelation, we are blessed to have access to God’s unfolding plan and the events surrounding His second return. Personally though, the study of Revelation hasn’t always been a top priority in my devotional life. When I was younger, it seemed scary and overwhelming, and I only read it with all the lights on. As I grew in my understanding of Christ and His love, I realized that in Revelation, Jesus is revealing the greatest part of our story: the end. Have you ever been reading a really good story and then decided not to finish it? That seems very unlikely. If we love the beginning and the middle of the Bible so much (enough to base our lives on it and call ourselves Christians), then we should be even more excited to explore and understand the ending as well.

Revelation points forward to the time when we will be able to live in perfect harmony with God for all eternity. However, for God’s purpose to be fulfilled requires a complete transformation of this world from one of sin and destruction, where Satan’s intent has been laid bare, to love and perfection, where God’s character is fully vindicated. When viewed in the context of God’s love for us, we can see His redemptive plan. Maybe some of us are afraid of the future because of uncertainty, but in Revelation, God has shown us the future to give us a hope and peace that will sustain us through the difficult times.

Whether by lulling us into a state of complacency or by misrepresenting the message so that we are too afraid to read it, Satan puts great effort into convincing Christians not to open and study the book of Revelation. However, in Revelation 1:3 Christ promises us that we will receive a blessing if we focus our study on the prophecies and the words written in the book. It is of utmost importance, then, that we navigate and understand the contents of its pages with surety in God’s plan for our future success. Let us go forward, not in fear, but in certainty that our God reigns above and our future is sure.

**React**

`1. How can we keep the study of Revelation an integral part of our devotional lives so that we can be better prepared to face the uncertainties of living in the end times?`

`2. How can you share the importance of reading the book of Revelation with someone else?`

---

_Athena Heredia, Rockford, Michigan, USA_