---
title:  The Everlasting Gospel
date:  08/03/2019
---

**Exploration**: Matt. 24:14

**Conclude**

In this world full of blindness and confusion, God is calling and empowering us to be His witnesses to share the everlasting gospel in the context of the three angels’ messages to all those in our sphere of influence and beyond. This gospel is something to be obeyed, for there are serious repercussions if it is not (2 Thess. 1:8; 1 Pet. 4:17; Rev. 14:9–11). It is a call for people everywhere to take sides between the great drama of the ages, to choose either to be loyal to God and worship Him or to worship the beast and his image.

**Consider**

- Designing a collage of hand drawings or photos depicting each of the three angels’ messages to present to your class or at an art show.

- Composing a song based on Revelation 14:6–12 to share with your Sabbath School class or church or at your school’s talent show.

- Reaching out to a friend who might be struggling to make a decision to accept Jesus as their Lord and Savior. Share what impact the everlasting gospel and the cleansing blood of Jesus has made in your life. Ask your friend to make a decision to follow Jesus.

- Inviting a friend to attend a Daniel and Revelation prophecy seminar to learn how the Bible prophecies and God’s promises can bring comfort and encouragement and take away any fear you might have of the last days.

- Giving a Bible study about the three angels’ messages to a friend.

- Memorizing Revelation 14:6–12.

- Preparing a sermon series on the three angels’ messages to preach at a Week of Prayer at your school or at your local church.

**Connect**

Matthew 24:9–14.

Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 308–312; chap. 36, “The Impending Conflict,” and chap. 37, “The Scriptures a Safeguard.”

Russell Burrill, Hope When the World Falls Apart (Seminars Unlimited, 2003), chap. 25.

Raymond F. Cottrell, Beyond Tomorrow (Southern Publishing Association, 1963), pp. 285–332.

J. N. Andrews, The Three Messages of Revelation 14:6–12 (Review and Herald®, 1892).

---

_Benjamin Garcia, Saginaw, Michigan, USA_