---
title:  Selfishness
date:  12/07/2021
---

As in the case of the aspen and its larger underground system, selfishness is part of the huge underground system called “sin,” which keeps us from finding true rest in Jesus. Of all the expressions of sin in our lives, selfishness seems to be the easiest to manifest, doesn’t it? For most of us, selfishness is as natural as breathing.

`Read Luke 12:13–21. Describe the problem highlighted in Jesus’ parable. Is planning for the future selfish and expressing disregard for God’s kingdom? If not, or at least not necessarily, then what is Jesus warning us against?`

This parable appears only in the Gospel of Luke and is told in response to an anonymous question from the audience. Asked about a question regarding an inheritance, Jesus responds by rejecting the role of the arbiter between brothers. Instead, He opts to put His finger on the bigger underlying problem, namely, selfishness. He digs deeper to show the root mass underneath our individual actions.

`Think about expressions of selfishness in your life. How does selfishness affect our relationships with God, with our spouses and fami­lies, with our church families, with our neighbors, and with colleagues at work? What key is found in Philippians 2:5–8?`

By focusing solely on his own needs and ambitions, the anonymous rich man of Jesus’ parable forgot to take into consideration unseen heavenly realities. Bigger, better, and more are not the foundational principles of God’s kingdom. Paul offers us a glimpse into what motivated Jesus as He decided to become our Substitute.

Philippians 2:5–8 describes the blueprint of unselfishness, humility, and love. If love for God and others does not drive our choices and priorities, we will continue to build more barns for ourselves here and put less treasure in heaven (Matt. 6:20).

`Why is it so easy to get caught up in the desire for wealth and material possessions? Though we all need a certain amount of money to survive, why does it seem to be that no matter how much we have, we always want more?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

By the parable of the foolish rich man, Christ showed the folly of those who make the world their all. This man had received everything from God. The sun had been permitted to shine upon his land; for its rays fall on the just and on the unjust. The showers of heaven descend on the evil and on the good. The Lord had caused vegetation to flourish, and the fields to bring forth abundantly. The rich man was in perplexity as to what he should do with his produce. His barns were full to overflowing, and he had no place to put the surplus of his harvest. He did not think of God, from whom all his mercies had come. He did not realize that God had made him a steward of His goods that he might help the needy. He had a blessed opportunity of being God’s almoner, but he thought only of ministering to his own comfort. …

In living for self he has rejected that divine love which would have flowed out in mercy to his fellow men. Thus he has rejected life. For God is love, and love is life. This man has chosen the earthly rather than the spiritual, and with the earthly he must pass away. …

“So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.”—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, pp. 256, 258.

Among those to whom bitter disappointment will come at the day of final reckoning will be some who have been outwardly religious, and who apparently have lived Christian lives. But self is woven into all they do. They pride themselves on their morality, their influence, their ability to stand in a higher position than others, [and] their knowledge of the truth, for they think that these will win for them the commendation of Christ. “Lord,” they plead … “Have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works?” (Matthew 7:22).

But Christ says, “I tell you, I know you not whence ye are; depart from me.” “Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven” (Matthew 7:21).—_Selected Messages_, book 1, pp. 81, 82.

Paul … was convinced that if men could be led to consider the amazing sacrifice made by the Majesty of heaven, selfishness would be banished from their hearts. … He directs the mind first to the position which Christ occupied in heaven in the bosom of His Father; he reveals Him afterward as laying aside His glory, voluntarily subjecting Himself to the humbling conditions of man’s life, assuming the responsibilities of a servant, and becoming obedient unto death, and that the most ignominious and revolting, the most agonizing—the death of the cross. Can we contemplate this wonderful manifestation of the love of God without gratitude and love, and a deep sense of the fact that we are not our own? Such a Master should not be served from grudging, selfish motives.—_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 501.