---
title:  Uprooting Restlessness
date:  15/07/2021
---

`Read John 14:1–6. In the midst of our own restlessness, what can we do so that our hearts will not feel troubled? What is the key to overcoming division, selfishness, ambition, hypocrisy, and truly finding rest?`

Overcoming restlessness always begins with Jesus. He is the way, the truth, and the life. He knows the right direction when we wander aimlessly in the wilderness of our media-saturated world; as the divine Lawgiver He Himself is the personified Truth, and His Spirit will guide us into all truth (John 16:13). When we are hurt, tired, worn out, sick, and discouraged, He is the life—not just any life. In fact, He has promised us life in abundance (John 10:10). This includes our eternal home and eternal life, but it also entails a different quality of life here. The Creator surely is able to give abundantly and beyond measure, even now.

“Let not your heart be troubled” is an invitation to live in anticipation. When we feel low, He is able to put us on a higher plain. When we struggle with darkness and sin, He is the One who not only began but also will finish His good work in us (Phil. 1:6).

No matter how bad things get here (and yes, they can get bad), look at the promise we have been given in Jesus. He is preparing a “place” for us, a place where our pain, restlessness, and suffering will forever be banished. That is the hope we have been given in Christ Jesus, and it is offered to all of us, no matter who we are, no matter our background, and no matter how sordid our lives have been or are now.

The key, however, is for us to come to God anyway in our weakness, in our hurt, in our brokenness, and in our general fallen state, knowing that He accepts us despite these things. That is what grace is all about, and why we must believe that we have been given it if we seek for it in faith.

`Read Jeremiah 3:22. What does God ask us to do, and then, what will He do for us in response?`

`Think about Jesus’ words: “ ‘I will come again and receive you to Myself; that where I am, there you may be also’ ” (John 14:3, NKJV). What should this tell us about how central and crucial the promise of the Second Coming is? Especially for us as Adventists (with our understanding of death), why is the promise of the Second Coming so precious?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

To live for self is to perish. Covetousness, the desire of benefit for self’s sake, cuts the soul off from life. It is the spirit of Satan to get, to draw to self. It is the spirit of Christ to give, to sacrifice self for the good of others. “And this is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in His Son. He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life.” 1 John 5:11, 12.

Wherefore He says, “Take heed, and beware of covetousness; for a man’s life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth.”—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, p. 259.

Praise the Lord, oh, my soul! He says He has gone to prepare mansions for me: “Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father’s house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also” (John 14:1-3).

Thank God! It is these mansions that I am looking to. It is not the earthly mansions here, for they are to be shaken down by the mighty earthquake erelong; but it is those heavenly mansions that Christ has gone to prepare for the faithful. We have no home here. We are only pilgrims and strangers here, passing to a better country, even an heavenly. May God help us to win the boon of eternal life.—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 354.

The humble and broken heart, subdued by genuine repentance, will appreciate something of the love of God and the cost of Calvary; and as a son confesses to a loving father, so will the truly penitent bring all his sins before God. And it is written, “If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.” 1 John 1:9.

God’s promise is, “Ye shall seek Me, and find Me, when ye shall search for Me with all your heart.” Jeremiah 29:13. …

… When Christ dwells in the heart, the soul will be so filled with His love, with the joy of communion with Him, that it will cleave to Him; and in the contemplation of Him, self will be forgotten. Love to Christ will be the spring of action. Those who feel the constraining love of God, do not ask how little may be given to meet the requirements of God; they do not ask for the lowest standard, but aim at perfect conformity to the will of their Redeemer.—_Steps to Christ_, pp. 41–44.