---
title:  The Bible’s View About Life
date:  10/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Luke 2:52; 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20; 1 Corinthians 2:12; Acts 8:4–24; 2 Peter 3:14.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “May the God of peace set you apart [separate you] for Himself. May every part of you be set apart [separated] for God. May your spirit and your soul [your whole life] and your body be kept complete [safe]. May you be without blame when our Lord Jesus Christ comes again” (1 Thessalonians 5:23, NLV).

THE BOOK OF REVELATION tells us about two worldwide messages in Revelation 13 and Revelation 14. Both messages are for the end times. Revelation 13 warns about the worldwide lie that almost everyone on earth will accept. Then “everyone living on earth . . . whose names are not written in the Lamb’s book of life” will worship the sea beast (Revelation 13:8, ERV; read also Revelation 13:3, 7, 12, 16). Revelation 14 shows us the worldwide message of Bible truth. God commands Seventh-day Adventists to announce this end-time message “to all the people of [on] the earth” (Revelation 14:6, NLV). During these “terrible times” (2 Timothy 3:1, ERV), many “false teachers” will teach lies (Ephesians 4:14, NLV) and lead people away from Bible truth (2 Timothy 4:4). “Satan uses two lies to trick people in the end times: (1) the lie that the spirit doesn’t die and (2) Sunday worship. The first lie tricks people into believing the dead can talk to us. The second lie causes people to accept Catholic teachings.” —Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 588, adapted.