---
title:  Jesus, Our Example 
date:  11/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Luke 2:52. Luke tells us in this verse that Jesus grew in four ways when He was a Child. What are these four ways?`

Humans are living souls. We have four basic parts that make us human. These four parts are: (1) mind, (2) body, (3) spirit, and (4) heart. The Bible shows us that all four parts grew strong in Jesus when He was a Child: “Jesus grew strong in mind and body. He grew in favor with God [spiritual growth] and men [friendship]” (Luke 2:52, NLV). Jesus was the perfect Human. “Jesus’ mind was full of energy. He thought very deeply about things. Jesus was thoughtful and wise. He was wiser than other children His age. At the same time, Jesus was perfect. His feelings, thoughts, and behavior were beautiful and holy. Jesus grew the same as any other child. As a Child, Jesus showed that His heart was filled with love. His hands were always ready to help other people. Jesus was patient. Nothing ever caused Him to get upset or lose His temper. Jesus always told the truth. He never lied. He was loyal to God’s law. He was always kind to everyone.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 68, 69, adapted.

`Read Matthew 4:23. Matthew tells us that Jesus taught, preached, and healed. How can we do this same work today?`

When we understand that humans are made of four parts, we won’t limit our work to teaching Bible truth only. Bible truth is about all four parts of our lives: our hearts, minds, spirits, and bodies. Our bodies and spirits are so deeply connected that we can’t separate them. As sinners, we “all have done wrong [sinned] and all [people] are far from being as good as God” (Romans 3:23, WE). But God wants us to try to live as Jesus lived. God will help us. He will give us His grace to be holy. Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. God wants to make us new. This work is part of God’s saving plan to get us ready for His coming. So, God wants us to improve our minds, bodies, spirits, and hearts as we wait for Him to come back.

Maybe you look at all the mistakes you’ve made in life and feel that you can never be as good as Jesus. How can the cross help to encourage you not to lose hope?