---
title:  The Body Is God’s Temple 
date:  12/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Many false ideas come from the lie that we have a spirit that never dies inside a body that does die. During Bible times, Greek thinkers believed that the human body was a prison for the spirit. Death freed the spirit from this “prison.” Many Christians today have a belief that matches this Greek idea. These Christians believe that the spirit doesn’t die when the body dies. These Christians believe that at the Second Coming, God will not need to wake up their spirits from the dead. God will only need to give them new bodies for their spirit to live in. Pantheists believe something different. Pantheists are people who believe that God is in everything He made. So, God and everything He made are the same thing. There are many confusing ideas today about the spirit. So, we must hold on to the Bible teaching on this topic.

Read 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20 and 1 Corinthians 10:31. These verses say that “your body is [the same as] a temple for the Holy Spirit” (1 Corinthians 6:19, ERV). How does this teaching help us to make healthy choices and to form good habits?

God made Adam and Eve to be the same as Himself in many ways (Genesis 1:26, 27). God gave them hearts that showed His love. God also gave them bodies. Sin ruined our bodies and minds. So, God made a plan to make us new again. God wants us to become the way He first made humans to be. God wants us to have healthy minds and bodies as much as possible in this life.

God’s plan to make us new will be finished only at Jesus’ Second Coming. At that time, God will change our bodies. He will give us bodies and spirits that never die (1 Corinthians 15:53, 54).

John wrote to his friend Gaius: “Dear friend, I know that your spiritual life is going well. I pray that you also may enjoy good health. And I pray that everything else may go well with you” (3 John 1:2, NIrV).

Remember, each person is made of four parts: heart, mind, spirit, and body. As we said, when we remember this Bible truth, we will understand that having good health is part of our religious duty. Let this important rule guide us: “So if you eat, or if you drink, or if you do anything, do everything for the glory [honor] of God” (1 Corinthians 10:31, ICB). Do your best, and trust in God.