---
title:  The Lord’s Mind 
date:  13/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Because we are sinners, sin is attractive to us. That’s why we should avoid places, things, and people that make us weak and cause us to sin (Psalm 1:1; Proverbs 5:1–8). Our problem with sin can be solved in only one way: we must let Jesus change us. Jesus is powerful. He can change our thoughts and feelings. Jesus knows that our thoughts and feelings must change. That’s why He says: “ ‘From the inside, out of the heart of men come bad thoughts, sex sins of [done by] a married person, sex sins of [done by] a person not married, killing other people, stealing, wanting something that belongs to someone else, doing wrong, lying, having a desire [wish] for sex sins, having a mind [thoughts] that is always looking for sin, speaking against God, thinking you are better than you are and doing foolish things’ ” (Mark 7:21, 22, NLV).

`Read these verses: 1 Corinthians 2:16; Psalm 24:3, 4; Romans 12:2; Philippians 4:8; and Colossians 3:2. The Bible says we can have “the Lord’s mind” (1 Corinthians 2:16, ERV) or the “thoughts of the Lord” (NLV). What does that mean?`

Jesus promised under the New Agreement to put His law in the hearts and minds of His people (Jeremiah 31:31–33; compare with Hebrews 8:8–10; Hebrews 10:16). In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus helps us to understand what He expects of us under the New Agreement. Sin is not something we do. Sin can be something we think or feel (Matthew 5:17–48). So, we need to keep the Ten Commandments in our hearts and minds, because that is where sin starts. We can say no to sin only by God’s mercy working in our hearts and minds. So, we must ask Jesus to keep His promise to us to give us strength to stop thinking evil thoughts.

In this life, we must remember that we can choose to sin anytime. But when we let Jesus live in our hearts, He covers us with His holy life. So, when God looks at us, He sees Jesus’ perfect life (Philippians 3:12–15). “When we join to Jesus, we have Jesus’ thoughts. We become clean and holy. We are filled with love. Our hearts are empty of all pride. Bible truth controls our lives. Our faces change, too, because Jesus lives in us. His life changes us so that we look different. Our faces will show the peace and joy in our hearts.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 337, adapted.