---
title:  Led By God’s Spirit 
date:  14/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Holy Spirit is God’s powerful Helper. The Holy Spirit fills our hearts with God’s love (Romans 5:5). The Holy Spirit leads us into a real, saving experience with God (John 16:7–11). The Holy Spirit guides us to all Bible truth (John 16:13). He also helps us to do God’s work. The Holy Spirit helps us to share the Good News with other people (Acts 1:8). The Holy Spirit also stops the evil work of Satan. So, we shouldn’t be surprised to learn that Satan tries to confuse us about the Holy Spirit and the work He does. Some Christians don’t believe the Holy Spirit is a real Person. Other Christians believe the Holy Spirit is a Person. But they are interested only in the spiritual gifts the Holy Spirit gives them. These Christians aren’t interested in the Spirit’s power to change their lives.

Read the story about Simon the magician in Acts 8:4–24. Simon was from Samaria. Simon wanted the gifts from the Holy Spirit. But Simon didn’t want to be changed by the Spirit. How is this very same thought and feeling being shown by Christians today?

Who are God’s children? They are the people who let the Holy Spirit control their lives (Romans 8:14). God’s children let the Spirit teach them Bible truth (John 16:13; John 17:17). Jesus warns us about people who pretend to be His followers. But they really are not. Jesus says, “ ‘Not everyone who calls me Lord will enter God’s kingdom. The only people who will enter are those who do what my Father in heaven wants. On that last Day many will call me Lord. They will say, “Lord, Lord, by the power of your name we spoke for God. And by your name we forced out demons and did many miracles.” Then I will tell those people clearly, “Get away from me, you people who do wrong. I never knew you” ’ ” (Matthew 7:21–23, ERV). Jesus shows us that the Holy Spirit never leads anyone away from the Bible. The Holy Spirit led men to write the Bible, right? So, the Spirit always leads us to accept and live Bible truth.

The same Holy Spirit also helps us to lead other people to accept Bible truth (Matthew 28:18–20; Acts 1:8). While we do God’s work, God promises us that He will send us the Holy Spirit to help us do it. So, we need to kneel before the Lord each morning and give our lives to Him. Then God will give us His Spirit, who will make us new.