---
title:  Ready For Jesus! 
date:  15/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Our lives are filled with too many things that steal our attention from Jesus. If we’re not careful, these things can take all our time. They also can cause us to make the wrong things in life important. Christians always must guard against Satan’s tricks to keep them from the things that really matter in life.

If we look away from Jesus, we will be in danger of thinking only about the things on this earth. In the end, these things can’t make us happy. Worse, these times can destroy us.

`What does it mean to get ourselves ready for the Second Coming? How is that different from being ready for that day? Read 2 Peter 3:14 and 1 John 3:1–3 for the answer.`

Some people put off getting ready for the Second Coming. They see that Jesus hasn’t come back. So, they feel His coming is delayed. They use this “delay” as an excuse not to get ready at this time. They relax like the evil servant, who says, “ ‘My master will not come just now’ ” (Matthew 24:48, WE).

`Read Psalm 95:7, 8; Hebrews 3:7, 8, 15; and Hebrews 4:7. What do these verses say to us about why we need to be ready right now?`

The Bible teaches us that we must be ready today. We must accept Jesus and be saved today and not tomorrow (read Psalm 95:7, 8; Hebrews 3:7, 8, 15; and Hebrews 4:7). There’s more. Age doesn’t help the sinner get better. So, if we don’t change now, we may never change. We may continue our bad behavior forever. So, we must keep growing in faith and God’s mercy. We must keep saying no to sin. If we don’t say no to sin, we may turn away from God. Then our hearts will become hard and full of doubt.

Each day of our lives is really a sample of our whole life. So, we should be ready every day for Jesus to come back, because today may be the last day of your life.

What if Jesus came back today? How can you, today, be ready for Him? Talk about your answer in class on Sabbath.