---
title:  Further Thought
date:  16/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Mind Cure,” pages 241–259, in The Ministry of Healing; “True and False Theories Contrasted,” pages 7–16, in The Sanctified Life.

“The worldwide war between God and Satan is almost finished. Every report of disaster by sea or land shows us that the end of all things is near. Wars and unproved reports about wars announce that the end is near. . . . The Lord is coming. We hear God’s footsteps approaching.”—Ellen G. White, Maranatha, page 220, adapted.

“Live the life of faith day by day. Don’t become worried and stressed about the time of trouble ahead. If you do, you will have a time of trouble before the real one happens. Don’t keep thinking, ‘I’m afraid I won’t stand strong or pass the test that God will give us.’ You must live for the time you are in now. Live for this day only. Tomorrow is not yours. Today, your job is to win the war against sin. Today, live a life of prayer. Today, fight the good fight of faith. Today, believe that God blesses you. As you win the war against evil and doubt, you will do everything that God wants you to do. You will become a blessing to everyone around you.”—Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, October 20, 1887, adapted.

“The Lord will come soon. We must be prepared to meet Him in peace. Do everything in your power to share Bible truth with the people around you. Don’t be sad. Be happy. Keep Jesus always in your thoughts. . . . Be ready for Him to come back. Wait for Him. We shall see Him. He shall welcome us as His saved people. That day will be beautiful! We have waited a long time. But we must not let our faith become weak. If we can see Jesus our King in His beauty, we will be blessed forever. I feel as if I must shout aloud, ‘I am on my way to heaven. Heaven is my home!’ We are near the time when Jesus will come with power and glory. Then He will take us to heaven to live with Him forever.”—Ellen G. White, Heaven, pages 165, 166, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`As humans, we have minds, spirits, bodies, and hearts. How does this idea help us to understand better why our choices in life are so important?`

`Read the picture story about the religious leader and the tax man (Luke 18:9–14). How does this story show that real religion and spiritual change come from God, and not from our own good behavior?`