---
title:  Breaking The Agreement
date:  02/11/2025
---

`Read Joshua 7. What were the two big reasons that the people from Ai beat the Israelites in a fight?`

Why did the Israelites fail to beat the people from Ai the first time they fought? Let’s look at Joshua 7 for the answer.

There are two important reasons that Israel lost: (1) Achan’s sin and (2) the Israelites’ trust in their own strength. The people forgot to ask God for His advice before they attacked Ai. Also, Israel thought that the army from Ai was weak.

Let’s look more closely at Achan’s sin. Achan disobeys God. Joshua 7:1, 11–13 shows us that God holds Israel responsible for Achan’s sin. So, Israel suffers for Achan’s choice. God explains that Achan’s sin is very bad. The Bible uses a well-known word for sin, “kḥata,” to talk about Achan’s sin. Then the Bible talks about five more sins that Achan did. (1) Achan turned away from God in his heart. (2) Achan stole things. (3) Worse, Achan stole things that God commanded Israel to destroy. (4) Achan lied. (5) Then Achan hid the things he stole.

Achan broke the agreement with God. But the whole community of Israel, and not just Achan, was guilty in God’s eyes. That’s why the Lord told Joshua, “ ‘The Israelites sinned against me. They have broken the agreement that I commanded them to obey’ ” (Joshua 7:11, ERV).

`What are ways that communities can suffer from someone else’s sins in the community? What examples can you think of? How was the community changed because of the experience?`