---
title:  The Sin Of Achan
date:  03/11/2025
---

`Read Joshua 7:16–19. What does this story tell us about both God and Achan?`

God doesn’t name the sinner right away. As Judge, God wants to show His people that He is fair. He also wants to show His mercy. So, God first explains the reason that Israel lost the fight. Then God tells the people to remove sin from their hearts and become clean (Joshua 7:13). God allows time to pass between this explanation and His punishment of the sin. God gives Achan time to confess his sin. Also, Achan’s family can decide at this time if they want to cover up Achan’s sin or refuse to go along with it. In the same way, God gave the sons of Korah a choice. They refused to side with their father. So, they avoided being destroyed (compare with Numbers 16:23–33; Numbers 26:11).

At last, God starts His work as Judge. First, God looks at Achan’s family group. Then God looks at Achan’s family. Then God looks at Achan. God’s work is very careful. He is the Witness to the crime. At the same time, He also is the Judge who will punish the guilty.

Achan is very stubborn. Does he really believe that God won’t find out who did the sin? We can’t hide anything from God’s eyes. God sees everything (Psalm 139:1–16; 2 Chronicles 16:9). He knows everything hidden in the human heart (1 Samuel 16:7; Jeremiah 17:10; Proverbs 5:21).

Notice how Joshua talks to Achan. Joshua names him “my son.” This name shows us the relationship between Joshua and Achan. Joshua is the leader of Israel and is much older than Achan. The words “my son” also show us that Joshua’s heart is filled with mercy for Achan. Joshua’s kind words and actions are a symbol of Jesus’ love for us. Jesus “was never mean and nasty. He didn’t say sharp words. Jesus didn’t cause anyone pain without good reason. Jesus was not afraid to stand against lies, doubt, and evil. But Jesus cried when He scolded people for their sins.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 353, adapted.

`God knows everything you do. He even knows the things you do that no one else knows about. How does this idea change how you live your life? How should this idea change how you live?`