---
title:  Life-changing Choices
date:  04/11/2025
---

`Read Joshua 7:19–21. What does Joshua ask Achan to do? Why is this question so important? What does Achan’s answer show us about his heart?`

Joshua asks Achan to do two things: (1) give glory to God and honor Him; and (2) confess his sin.

Sad to say, Achan didn’t do anything to show that he was really sorry. Achan hoped to keep his sin hidden. The law of Moses says that God can’t forgive sins that we aren’t sorry for (compare with Numbers 15:27–31).

Achan’s words in Joshua 7:21 help us remember Adam and Eve’s sin. Eve saw (“ra’ah” in the Hebrew language) that the tree was beautiful (“kḥamad” in the Hebrew language) and its fruit was good. She finally took (“laqakḥ” in the Hebrew language) the forbidden fruit. In the same way, Achan confesses that he saw (“ra’ah”) a beautiful coat, 200 silver coins, and a large piece of gold. Achan wanted (“kḥamad”) and took (“laqakḥ”) all of them. Achan’s choice shows that he was greedy. He didn’t trust in God to want what was best for him. Achan’s greedy heart showed that he believed God was hiding something good from him. Adam and Eve were guilty of thinking the same thing.

We also can compare Achan to Rahab (compare with Joshua 2:1–13). Rahab led the spies to the roof. She hid them from the soldiers. But Achan stole forbidden things and hid them from Joshua. Rahab was kind to the Israelite spies. She did things that helped them win the war. But Achan caused trouble for Israel with his greedy heart. Then Israel lost their fight against Ai. Rahab made an agreement with the Israelites. But Achan broke the agreement with the Lord. Rahab saved herself and her family. Then they became respected citizens in Israel. But Achan and his family died. They became examples of shame.

`Think about how easy it is for us to be selfish and greedy. How can we avoid these sins? (Compare your answer with Luke 12:15.)`