---
title:  The Door Of Hope
date:  05/11/2025
---

`Read Joshua 8:1–29. What does this story tell us about how God can change our worst mistakes into blessings?`

God turns Israel’s loss at the Valley of Achor into success. The word “Achor” comes from the Hebrew word for “trouble.” Now the Valley of Achor becomes a place of hope (compare with Hosea 2:15). The citizens of Ai are filled with pride because they beat Israel in the first fight. They are sure they can beat Israel again. The citizens of Ai attack the Israelites, who pretend to run away as if they are losing the fight. This move causes the people to leave the city of Ai and chase the Israelites. What the people of Ai don’t know is that 30,000 Israelites are standing not too far behind the city (Joshua 8:4). These 30,000 Israelites will set the city of Ai on fire. Joshua 8:7 says that the Lord is responsible for Israel’s win. God gave Joshua the battle plan. But the Israelites didn’t win because of the excellent military plan. They won because the Lord helped them fight. Then He gave them the city as a gift.

When the men of Ai leave the city, they start to chase after the Israelites. Then God gives Joshua orders. God shows us that He is in charge of the battle. Now we will see that the Israelite army will win.

Joshua’s weapon is a curved sword, and not a spear. In Joshua’s time, people didn’t often use curved swords when they fought. But the curved sword was a symbol of leadership and control. So, the curved sword shows God’s control over the fight. When Joshua held out the curved sword until Israel won, he showed that he was Israel’s leader. Joshua showed the same leadership over Israel that Moses showed when Israel crossed the Red Sea (Exodus 14:16) and fought against the Amalekites (Exodus 17:11–13).

God doesn’t do any special miracle in the fight against Ai. But the Israelites know that God helps them win. The Israelites win because Joshua has faith in God and obeys Him. This important rule is a lesson for us today. Whenever we are in trouble or need help, we must trust in God to give us success.