---
title:  A Witness To God’s Power
date:  06/11/2025
---

As we already saw (read lesson 5), God gave the Canaanites a chance to know about Him and stop doing evil. But they refused God’s invitation. Finally, the time came for God to punish them for their sins.

`Read Joshua 7:6–9, which tells us what Joshua said and did when the people of Ai first beat the Israelites. Carefully read Joshua 7:9. What important rule do we see in Joshua’s words?`

At first, Joshua seems as if he is complaining, the same as the Israelites after they left Egypt. “They said, ‘It would have been better if the Lord had just killed us in the land of Egypt. At least there we had plenty to eat. We had all the food we needed. But now you have brought us out here into this desert to make us all die from hunger’ ” (Exodus 16:3, ERV).

Now listen to Joshua: “ ‘Lord God, you brought our people across the Jordan River. Why did you bring us this far and then allow the Amorites to destroy us? We should have been satisfied and stayed on the other side of the Jordan River” (Joshua 7:7, ERV).

But soon after, Joshua explains why he is upset. He is not complaining. He is worried about God’s honor and name. Joshua doesn’t want people to laugh at God because Israel lost the fight. “ ‘The Canaanites and all the other people in this country will hear about what happened. Then they will attack us and kill all of us! Then what will you do to protect your great [mighty and wonderful] name?’ ” (Joshua 7:9, ERV).

This verse shows us an important idea that was part of God’s plan for Israel. God wanted the countries around Israel to see the wonderful things He did for His people who obeyed Him. These countries also could learn about God from the success He gave Israel in war. But what if things went bad for Israel, as they did here? Then the Canaanites and other people groups would think Israel’s God was weak (read Numbers 14:16; Deuteronomy 9:28). Then the Canaanites would try to attack Israel.

`Read Deuteronomy 4:5–9. How do these verses help us to understand God’s plan for our church as His witnes­ses?`