---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  07/11/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Fall of Jericho,” pages 493–498, in Patriarch and Prophets.

“The sin that destroyed Achan started with a greedy heart. This sin is a problem for many people. But few people understand its danger. . . .

“Achan knew he was guilty and said so. But he confessed his guilt when it was too late to do him any good. Achan saw Israel’s armies come back from Ai. They were sad because they lost the fight. But Achan didn’t come out and confess his sin. Achan saw Joshua and the leaders of Israel bow to the earth with sorrow. Their suffering was too much and deep for words. If Achan confessed his sin at that time, then the leaders would have proof that Achan was sorry for his sin. But Achan stayed silent. Achan listened to the announcement that someone did a terrible crime. Achan even heard what the crime was. But he didn’t confess his sin. Then the Lord came to judge what happened. Achan’s heart filled with terror when he saw that his family group was selected. Then his family line and then his own family members were selected as guilty. Achan said nothing until God announced his guilt. When Achan could no longer hide his sin, he confessed the truth. Many people are the same as Achan. They confess their crimes only when they can’t hide them anymore. Achan confessed that he was wrong, but not because he was sorry for his sin. Achan continued to hide his sin because he hoped he wouldn’t get caught and punished. But Achan’s words showed that his punish­ment was fair. Achan wasn’t really sorry for his sin. His heart hadn’t changed. He didn’t hate evil.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 496–498, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Read the 10th commandment. How do we obey this commandment when we see ads all around us for things we don’t really need? How is a real need different from something we want? Why is the answer important for us to know?`

`Read Daniel’s prayer in Daniel 9:4–19. Why does Daniel say “we” did all these bad things, even when Daniel didn’t do any of them? Why does Daniel include himself? What does the answer teach us about prayer?`