---
title:  Love Does Everything the Law Commands
date:   22/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson:

Exodus 20:1–17; Romans 6:1–3; Jeremiah 31:31–34; Matthew 23:23, 24; James 2:1–9.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Do not owe people anything. But you will always owe love to each other. The person who loves others has obeyed all the law” (Romans 13:8, ICB).

A local church held a special meeting to talk about what they should do about a member who was making trouble. One person at the meeting told the pastor, “We can’t make decisions because of mercy.” We can’t? The pastor wondered what this person understood about God and His law. Mercy must be an important part of how we fix problems with people when they make mistakes. Mercy is a part of love. Romans 13:8 tells us that when we love the people around us who need our help, we do everything the law commands us to do.

If love obeys the law, we should be careful not to think that the law is separate from love. Love is not separate from the law in any way. In the Bible, the two agree. God, who gave us His law, is love. So, God’s law is the law of love. As Ellen G. White puts it, the law shows us who God is. (Read Christ’s Object Lessons, page 305, adapted.)

God’s law is not a set of important rules that doesn’t mean anything for our lives. More than anything, God’s law shows us His love for us.