---
title:  The Law Of Love
date:   23/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God’s law is more than important rules. God’s law shows us a relationship. We see this relationship very clearly in the Ten Commandments. The basic rules of the Ten Commandments were already part of Adam and Eve’s lives in the Garden of Eden before the Fall. The rules of God’s law are rules of love. They show us the relationship that God wanted to have with people. The rules also show us the relationship God wanted us to have with other people.

The Lord wrote the Ten Commandments (Exodus 20) on stone (Exodus 31:18). The commandments show Israel their special relationship with God. God wrote His commandments down after He saved His people from Egypt. The commandments showed God’s love and His promises to His people (read Exodus 6:7, 8 and Leviticus 26:12). One can see that the first four commandments and the last six show us what a healthy relationship with God and other people should be.

`Read Exodus 20:1–17. How do these verses show us two important rules: (1) love for God and (2) love for people?`

The first four commandments show our relationship with God. The last six show our relationships with other people. Both our relationship to God and to other people must be under the control of these two parts of God’s law.

Jesus connected the two parts of God’s law together. Jesus taught that there are two important commandments: (1) “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul [spirit], and all your mind’ ” (Matthew 22:37, ERV; compare with Deuteronomy 6:5). And (2) “ ‘Love your neighbor the same as you love yourself’ ” (Matthew 22:39, ERV; compare with Leviticus 19:18).

The first four commandments are the ways we must love God with all our heart, mind, spirit, and body. The last six are the ways we must love other people. We must love them the same as we love ourselves. Jesus says that these two love commandments are an important part of the law (Matthew 22:40). So, love is the foundation for the whole law of God. We often hear people say, “We don’t need to keep the law. We just need to love God and people.” Why is this idea false?

`Can we show love for God or people if we break His law? Explain your answer.`