---
title:  The Law Is Holy
date:   24/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Love is the beginning of God’s law. When God supports the law, He supports love. That is why Jesus died to save sinners. Jesus died so that He could support the law at the same time that He showed us mercy. In this way, Jesus could be both fair and show mercy to everyone who believes in Him (Romans 3:25, 26). When God saves us, He shows His support for His law. So, the law doesn’t stop being important when God saves us.

`Read Romans 6:1–3 and then Romans 7:7–12. Pay careful attention to verse 12. What do these verses tell us about the law, even after Jesus died?`

Some people think that mercy and God’s saving plan make us free from keeping the law. But Paul says that we must not keep sinning so that God will give us more mercy. The ones who believe in Jesus have been baptized into His death. So they must stop sinning and live in Jesus.

The law of God isn’t sin. The law of God shows us our sin and shows us that we are evil without Jesus. “So the law is holy. And what the law says is holy and right and good” (Romans 7:12, WE). The law also shows us our need for God to save us and for His mercy. God’s saving mercy comes only from Jesus. So, “does this mean that we do away with the Law when we put our trust in Christ? No, not at all. It means we know the Law is important” (Romans 3:31, NLV).

Jesus didn’t come to destroy the law. He came to keep everything that the Law and the Old Testament promised. That’s why Jesus says, “ ‘I tell you the truth. Nothing will disappear from the law until heaven and earth are gone. The law will not lose even the smallest letter or the smallest part of a letter until all has happened’ ” (Matthew 5:18, ICB).

God’s law shows us that He is holy. The law also shows us that God is love, that He is good, and that He is the truth (Leviticus 19:2; Psalm 19:7, 8; Psalm 119:142, 172). We must remember that God wrote the Ten Commandments on pieces of stone Himself (Exodus 31:18). The law written in stone shows us that God and His government don’t change. Love is the foundation or beginning of His government. This Bible truth is an important idea in the worldwide war between God and Satan.