---
title:  Law And Mercy
date:   25/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw already, God’s law and His mercy work together, not against each other. Both rules and forgiveness work together with God’s love. Both the law and mercy show that God is fair. During Old Testament times, God’s people saw that His law showed His mercy. The “gods” of the non-Jews didn’t show their followers what they wanted from them. But the God of the Bible teaches His people about the things that please Him. What pleases God? He wants the best for all of His people.

We must remember that the law can’t save us from sin. The law can’t change human hearts. Because we are sinners, we need God to remove our old evil heart. Then we need Him to give us a new spiritual heart.

`Read Jeremiah 31:31–34. What do these verses teach us about God’s promises to give us a new heart? Compare this promise with Jesus’ words to Nicodemus in John 3:1–21 about being born again. Also read Hebrews 8:10.`

God wrote the Ten Commandments on pieces of stone (Exodus 31:18). But God also writes His law in the hearts of His people (Psalm 37:30, 31). God’s law of love is not something that is outside of us. It is part of our hearts and every part of who we are. God is the only One who can write His law on our hearts. He promised His chosen people that He would write it there for them (read Hebrews 8:10).

We can’t save ourselves with our law-keeping. God saves us because of faith in His mercy. We don’t save ourselves. God’s saving mercy is His gift to us (Ephesians 2:8). We don’t keep the law so that God will save us. We keep the law because we already are saved. We don’t keep the law so that God will love us. We keep the law because God already loves us. God’s love for us helps us to love Him and other people (read John 14:15).

At the same time, the law shows us our sin (James 1:22–25; Romans 3:20; Romans 7:7). The law also shows us our need of a Savior (Galatians 3:22–24). The law leads us in the best ways of life and shows us God’s love, too.

`What is your hope when God judges you? Is it your law-keeping? Or is it Jesus’ gift of mercy and holy life? What does your answer tell you about what God’s law can and can’t do for you?`