---
title:  Love Keeps The Whole Law
date:   26/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The relationship between love and the law is very important. The Bible tells us that when we love, we keep the whole law.

In Romans 13:8–10, Paul teaches us that “the person who loves others has obeyed all the law” (Romans 13:8, ICB). After Paul talks about the last six commandments, he announces, “All these commands and all other commands are really only one rule: ‘Love your neighbor the same as you love yourself’ ” (Romans 13:9, ERV). Paul teaches that “love doesn’t hurt others. So loving is the same as obeying all the law” (Romans 13:10, ERV). What type of love obeys all the law? What does this love look the same as?

`Read Matthew 23:23, 24. As we already learned in last week’s lesson, what are “the really important teachings of the law” that Jesus talks about in verse 23? Read Deuteronomy 5:12–15 and Isaiah 58:13, 14. How do these verses show us the connection between the law and God’s plan to save us?`

Jesus says that “the really important teachings of the law” are being fair, showing mercy, and faith. One law, more than any other law, shows us that God’s wish to save us also is connected with His being fair. That law is the Sabbath. The Sabbath helps us remember the time when God made the skies and the earth. The Sabbath also helps us remember that God makes His people free from sin and slavery. The Lord wants us to feel joy for the Sabbath and in Him (Isaiah 58:13, 14). Isaiah 58 also talks about doing loving works to help other people. God wants us to feed the hungry and welcome people with no homes into our houses (read Isaiah 58:3–10).

All these teachings (and many other teachings) help us to understand what keeping the law really means. When we don’t break the law, we keep it. But we also must do good. We must do works of love that show God’s faith and mercy. Keeping the law is about more than not breaking the law. Keeping the law means doing good works.