---
title:  Above All, Love People
date:   27/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

If loving God means we keep His whole law, then we can’t fully keep God’s law when we only stop doing bad things, right? The law of love commands us not to do evil. The law of love also causes us to do acts that show God’s love to other people. We must show God’s love to other church members and to people outside the church in our communities. The people on the earth really need to see God’s love.

`Read James 2:1–9. What important message do these verses give us?`

James teaches us that the rich must not hurt the poor or make life hard for them. Then James talks about the law of love for our neighbors. He says, “If you obey this law, you are doing right” (James 2:8, ERV).

As Ellen G. White says, “When we love people, we show God’s love on this earth. Jesus is the King of glory. He came to put this love in our hearts. This love makes us children of one family. Jesus said, ‘Love each other as I have loved you’ (John 15:12 [ERV]. When we love people the way that Jesus loved them, His work for us is done. We are ready for heaven. We have heaven in our hearts.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 641, adapted.

When we love people as Jesus loved them, we will be ready for heaven! Wow! This thought is very powerful. It shows us what it means to really be Jesus’ followers.

Jesus commands His followers to “ ‘love each other just as I loved you’ ” (John 13:34, ERV). Jesus also says, “ ‘All people will know that you are my followers if you love each other’ ” (John 13:35, ERV). Love is so important to our Christian faith because God is love (1 John 4:8, 16). If we say we love God, we will also love other people (compare with 1 John 3:11; 1 John 4:20, 21).

1 Peter 4:8 tells Christians, “Most important of all, love each other deeply, because love makes you willing to forgive many sins” (ERV; also read Hebrews 10:24 and 1 Thessalonians 3:12).

`Think more about the idea that we must love people the way that Jesus loved them. How does this teaching help us better understand the idea that God will make us fit for heaven in this life? Bring your answer to class on Sabbath.`