---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   28/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘The Least of These My Brethren,’ ” pages 637–641, in The Desire of Ages.

“When we serve other people and help them, Jesus helps us. Jesus is the Good Shepherd. People who help other people will drink the living water and be filled. They will avoid exciting entertainment. They will not wait for some change to happen in their lives. The most important topic that interests them is how to save people who are ready to die. Then their friendships with other people will cause wonderful things to happen. The Savior’s love will cause hearts to join together as one in peace and agreement.

“When we understand that we are workers together with God, we will say God’s promises with meaning and interest. God’s promises will burn in our hearts and on our lips. God asked Moses to serve people who fight against God and don’t know Him. God gave Moses this promise: ‘I myself will go with you. And I will give you victory [success].’ Exodus 33:14 [ICB]. The Lord also said, ‘I will be with you.’ Exodus 3:12 [ICB]. God makes these promises to everyone who serves Jesus and seeks to help His poor, suffering people.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 641, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read 1 Corinthians 13:4–8. How does 1 Corinthians 13 help us understand who we should be as Christians?`

`What separates the sheep from the goats in Matthew 25:31–46? How can we make sure we don’t misunderstand what Jesus says in these verses? Why do these verses not teach that our works save us?`

`Read the last part of the quote again from Thursday’s lesson study: “When we love people the way Jesus loved them, His work for us is done. We are ready for heaven. We have heaven in our hearts.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 641, adapted. What does this quote mean to you? What does this quote tell us about God and about heaven itself? How can we live more as the citizens of heaven right now? How is sharing and showing God’s love the answer?`