---
title:  God’s View About Life
date:  17/10/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Psalm 53:1; Revelation 14:6, 7; Ephesians 6:12; John 1:1–14; Deuteronomy 6:5.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ The Lord’s eyes see everything that happens. He watches both evil and good people” (Proverbs 15:3, ICB).

POLISH POET Czeslaw Milosz wrote a poem about make-believe animals: talking rabbits, talking squirrels, and so on. Then Milosz made a comparison between these fake animals and our ideas about life. Milosz said that “our ideas about life are no more real than these animals.” Then Milosz wrote, “This idea should make us very afraid when we think about it.”—Adapted.

Many ideas that humans believe about life are all wrong. Here’s an example: for almost 2,000 years                                                                                                   many smart and educated people had wrong ideas about the earth. They thought that the earth hung in outer space and did not move. People also thought that the earth sat at the center of all the stars and planets in outer space. We now know that this idea is silly. But are humans really any different today? Today, many smart and educated people believe that human life started from a simple cell.

As humans, we look at life in different ways and believe different ideas about it. Our ideas and experiences change our understanding of life. Our understanding of life is also known as our worldview. It is important that we teach our young people and our older church members about the Bible’s teaching or worldview. This week, we will look at what the Bible teaches us about God’s view of life.