---
title:  IN GOD’S EYES
date:   18/10/2020
---

An Oxford University professor came up with this idea: nothing is real. That includes us, the earth, and everything around us. If we are not real, what are we then? Let us ask the Oxford University professor. His answer? We were really made by a group of super-powerful people from outer space with super-powerful computers. We really “live” in a computer and are only computer pictures!

That is a silly idea. At the same time, the idea asks us an important question: What is real?

There are two possible answers. First, there is the view that everything just “is.” No one made it. Everything is just here. There is no God. The only real things are the things we see, touch, and experience. This is not a new idea. As someone said 2,500 years ago, there are only “atoms, or the smallest parts, and nothing.” What he is saying is that the only things that are real are the things we can experience.

The second view is that some God or gods made everything there is. This idea makes much more sense than the first idea. The second view explains the reason for nature and everything around us. That includes “atoms, or the smallest parts, and nothing.” But this view also includes so much more. It is not limited to what we see. It also includes things we cannot see.

`Read Psalm 53:1; Proverbs 15:3; John 3:16; Isaiah 45:21; and Luke 1:26–35. What do these verses have to say about the two views we just talked about?`

An important teaching from Christian education is the idea that God is a person who loves us. God wants to be close to us too. He also is a God of miracles. God works with nature’s laws. But God is not limited by nature or its laws. (An example is Jesus’ birth. Mary has a baby, but no man on the earth is the father.) This teaching about God is important and needed today. We live during a time when so many experts and teachers say that science supports the view that life started on its own without help from God.

`Think about the two views: the first view that says life started on its own and the second view that says that God made life. Why does the second view make more sense?`

_An important teaching of Christian education is the idea that God is a person who loves us._
