---
title:  LEIBNIZ’S QUESTION
date:   19/10/2020
---

Many years ago, a German thinker and writer named Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz asked an important question: “Why is there something and not just nothing?”

`Read Genesis 1:1; John 1:1–4; Exodus 20:8–11; Revelation 14:6, 7; and Job 12:7–10. How do these verses answer Leibniz’s question?`

Do you see how Bible writers do not try to prove there is a God? God just is. Look at Genesis 1:1. This verse does not start out with a bunch of reasons for why there is a God. The writer of Genesis just accepts that God lives and made all things. (Read also Exodus 3:13, 14.) Genesis 1:1 starts out with the idea that God is the One who makes the earth and sky. This is the basic idea for all Bible truth.

Christian education teaches that God made the earth and sky. Everything we believe as Christians starts with the teaching that God made the earth in six days. The Bible does not start with the teaching about the cleansing blood of Jesus. Or the law. Or the Cross. Or the teaching that God will wake the dead. Or the Second Coming. No, the Bible starts with this announcement: God made everything in the earth and sky. Why? Because no other Bible teaching makes any sense unless we first accept the belief that God made us.

So again, the Bible’s view on life must show that God made the earth in six days. Today, this idea has been attacked by many thinkers and scientists who believe in evolution. Evolution, as we know, is an idea that life we see today started because of changes that happened in plants and animals over a very long time. Evolution has destroyed many people’s faith in the Bible. It is hard to think of a teaching that goes against the Bible and Christian faith more than evolution does. Some people think that evolution can fit with the Bible teaching about God as the One who made the earth. But this idea is worse than the idea there is no God at all. We cannot blend Bible truth with false ideas. If we do, we make the Bible and our Christian faith a joke.

`Every week, God asks us to remember that He made us. Why does this commandment show that the teaching that God made us is so important to our Christian view about life?`

_No other Bible teaching makes sense unless we first accept the belief that God made us._
