---
title:  The Bible’s View About Life 
date:  20/10/2020
---

As we said on Sabbath, we look at life in different ways and believe different ideas about it. How does an atheist look at life? An atheist is someone who believes there is no God. When an atheist looks at a rainbow in the sky, what does he or she see? He or she sees an object in nature. It is only water and light working together. The only meaning the rainbow has is the meaning that humans decide to give it. But someone who believes in the Bible sees the rainbow as a sign of God’s promise not to destroy the earth again by water (Genesis 9:13–16). “God lowers Himself in a big way and shows His love for sinners when He puts His beautiful rainbow in the clouds. The rainbow is a sign of God’s promise and agreement with humans. . . . In the future, children will see the rainbow in the sky. Then they will ask their parents what the rainbow’s wonderful beauty means. This is part of God’s plan. Then the parents will tell their children of the Flood. They will tell them that the Most High had bent the bow and put it in the clouds as a promise. It showed God’s promise to never destroy the earth again with a Flood.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 106, adapted.

As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe that the Bible is the support for all our beliefs. It teaches us our worldview, or the way we must see and understand life. Life on this earth can be very difficult and confusing. The Bible helps us to understand our lives better and to make sense of the mess we are in.

`Read Ephesians 6:12; Mark 13:7; Romans 5:8; Romans 8:28; Ecclesiastes 9:5; and Revelation 20:5, 6. What Bible truths do these verses show? How can they help us understand this life better?`

As Seventh-day Adventists, we must firmly stand for Bible truth. The Bible is the truth that God has shown to humans. Bible truth explains for us many things about life that we cannot understand or known on our own. So, all Christian education must have its roots in the Bible. We must throw out any teaching that goes against the Bible.

`What are some Bible teachings that go against the popular beliefs today? Why must we obey the Bible only?`