---
title:  WORSHIP THE SAVIOR
date:   21/10/2020
---

The Bible teaches that God made the earth in six days. This teaching is named Creation. This Bible teaching is very important to our faith. Often, we teach Creation with God’s plan to save sinners. That is because we live on a planet filled with sin and death. So, the Bible teaching about God as the only One who made everything is not enough. We live, suffer, and then what happens next? We die. We end up the same as a dead animal on the side of the road.

Do you like that sad story?

So, the teaching about a Savior is very important to our Christian worldview. As you will remember, a worldview is the way we look at life and understand it. And Jesus Christ, His death on the cross, and His waking up from the dead are very important to everything we believe.

`Read John 1:1–14. What do these verses tell us about who Jesus was and what He did for us?`

Also, look at the first angel’s message: “Then I saw another angel flying high in the air. The angel had the eternal [everlasting] Good News to announce to the people living on earth—to every nation [country], tribe [family group], language, and race [group] of people. The angel said in a loud voice, ‘Fear [honor] God and give him praise. The time has come for God to judge all people. Worship God. He made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs [places where water comes out of the earth] of water’ ” (Revelation 14:6, 7, ERV). Do you see that the “eternal [everlasting] Good News” is connected to God as the One who made everything? This same God took our place on the cross. He was punished for our sins. Now we understand why we must worship Him!

Jesus and the Cross must be the center of everything we teach. This teaching about Jesus also must include the Second Coming too. The first coming of Jesus does not really do us a whole lot of good without the Second Coming, right? Jesus’ first and second comings are two parts of one plan: God’s plan to save sinners from sin and death.

`Think more about the idea in John 1: God who made everything is the same One who died on the cross for us. Why should we worship Him?`

_Jesus and the Cross must be the center of everything we teach._
