---
title:  The Law Of God 
date:  22/10/2020
---

Years ago, the people in France argued about the answer to this question: Is it right to put people to death who were guilty of a crime? And should the government end the law that allowed guilty people to be killed for their crimes? People in favor of getting rid of the law talked with a famous French writer and thinker named Michel Foucault. This group asked Foucault to write an article explaining their view. Foucault agreed. But his views were stronger than the people who asked him to write. Foucault said that France needed to get rid of the law that made it legal to kill people for their crimes. Foucault also said France needed to get rid of all the jails and prisons in France and let all the prisoners go free.

Why? Because for Michel Foucault, all laws about right and wrong were made by humans. They were made by people in power who wanted to control everyone. So, for Foucault the rules about right and wrong made no sense and had no power.

Foucault’s view may go too far for most people. But really, his view is nothing new. Moses had the same problem to solve in Israel thousands of years ago. “ ‘You must not continue to worship the way we have been worshiping. Until now each of us has been worshiping God any way we wanted’ ” (Deuteronomy 12:8, ERV; read also Judges 17:6; Proverbs 12:15). So, how do we know the right thing to do? The Lord who made us gave us a law to live by. Maybe our eyes don’t “see” things in the right way. But God’s eyes always do.

`Read Deuteronomy 6:5; Mark 12:29–31; and Revelation 14:12. What do these verses teach us about the correct way to behave and act?`

Just as being saved is important to our Christian view of life, so is God’s law. God saves us from breaking God’s law (Romans 3:20). The Good News makes no sense without God’s law. Yes, the law can’t save us. But God commands us to obey it. That’s why we need the Good News. So, Seventh-day Adventist education must show that the law is important and “continues to have power over our lives.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 63, adapted. The law includes the Sabbath. Remember, God’s plan is that education will help make us holy as Jesus is holy. That is why God’s law must be an example that shows us what is holy and right in God’s eyes.