---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   23/10/2020
---

“What is God’s plan for education? He wants to help people to become holy as He is.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 595, adapted.

This idea helps us to see why a Bible worldview, or understanding about life, is so important for Adventist education. Earlier we said that education is not always a good thing. People can have a lot of education. But they may have learned the wrong ideas. They may have learned and accepted teachings that go against Bible truth. That is why, as Adventists, our schools and colleges must teach Bible truth and have a Christian worldview. So, science, history, right and wrong, and everything else we teach will be taught from the Bible. We also learned that everyone’s understanding about life comes from their worldview. So, all of our teachings must support the Bible’s view about life.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. What examples can you think of from history that show teachings and education plans that destroyed lives? Where did this happen? What were students taught? What can we learn from these false teachings? How can we protect our own schools from these teachings?`

`2. This week, we looked at some important parts of a Christian worldview: (1) God lives. (2) God made the earth in six days. (3) The Bible shows us God’s truth. (4) God is our Savior. (5) God’s law is important. What other important teachings should we include in our Christian worldview, or understanding about life?`

`3. A thinker in the 1800s wrote: “Oh, my mind! My mind! You have God’s power and skill to know what is right and wrong. You are a sure guide for a human who, at times, acts foolish even if he is born intelligent and free. You, my mind, you are the perfect judge. You know how to choose between good and evil. You make a human the same as God Himself.” What is right or wrong about this view?`

`4. Look at the Ellen G. White quotation again. What does it mean that God wants us to be holy? How does this plan show us why Adventist education must be so different from much of the education on earth?`

_“What is God’s plan for Christian education? He wants [us] to become holy as He is.”_
