---
title:  Second Chance
date:  05/10/2025
---

`Why does Joshua send out spies? Read Joshua 2:1, along with Numbers 13:1, 2, 25–28, 33; and Numbers 14:1–12 for the answer.`

Joshua sent two spies from a place named Acacia Grove (Joshua 2:1, NKJV). Another name for Acacia Grove in the Hebrew language is “Shittim.” Acacia Grove helps us remember two bad experiences that happened to Israel at Shittim in the past.

The first bad experience is another spy story (read Numbers 13). The first story about the ten spies and the second story about the two spies are a lot alike. In both stories, the spies are sent to do special work. In both stories, the spies go into enemy territory. The spies in both stories come back. The spies in both stories report on what they find. In both stories, the Israelites decide what to do because of the information in the report.

The second bad experience at Shittim is one of the worst stories in Israel’s history. Israel broke their agreement with God. The Israelite men had sex with Moabite women and worshiped their gods (Numbers 25:1–3; Numbers 31:16). So, the name “Shittim” helps Israel remember the awful mistakes of the past. Now the Israelites are at Shittim again on the border of the Promised Land. Will the Israelites make the same mistakes they made in the past? Or will they do the right thing so that God can keep His promise to them?

`Read John 18:16–18, 25–27 and John 21:15–19. These verses talk about how Jesus gave Peter a second chance. Compare the story about Peter’s second chance with the second chance God gave to Israel. How are the two stories the same?`

God is the God of second chances (and much more!). The Bible has another name for the second chance: “mercy.” Mercy is getting a gift that we didn’t do anything to earn. The Bible is full of this teaching about mercy. (Compare Romans 5:2; Ephesians 2:8; and Romans 11:6.) God gives everyone the offer of a fresh start (Titus 2:11–14). Peter himself knew God’s mercy. Peter asked the church to grow in God’s mercy (2 Peter 3:18). The news gets better: we, too, get much more than a second chance, don’t we?