---
title:  Value In Unexpected Places
date:  06/10/2025
---

`Read Joshua 2:2–11; Hebrews 11:31; and James 2:25. What do these verses tell us about Rahab?`

Rahab tells a lie to protect the Israelite spies. If we want to understand Rahab’s story, we must remember that she lived among very evil people. That’s why God finally decided to judge them (Genesis 15:16; Deuteronomy 9:5; Leviticus 18:25–28). Yes, the New Testament praises Rahab’s faith. At the same time, the Bible doesn’t praise everything about Rahab. The Bible never praises her lie.

Hebrews 11:31 honors Rahab for helping the spies. The Bible also honors Rahab for rejecting an evil way of life. James 2:25 honors Rahab for giving lodging to the two Israelite spies. Rahab also is praised for telling the spies how to get home safely. God, in His mercy, saw faith in Rahab. God used her faith to bless Israel. Rahab believed in God and chose to belong to God’s people. Rahab chose Israel’s God over her own gods. God liked Rahab’s courage and her brave faith. God used her to help save other people.

Rahab chose to be on the Lord’s side. Rahab told the spies on her rooftop, “ ‘The Lord your God is God in heaven above and on earth below’ ” (Joshua 2:11, NLV). In Rahab’s religion, people often went on their rooftops to pray to the gods who they thought controlled the skies. So, Rahab’s announcement and where she says it are important. Rahab is announcing that Yahweh is the only God.

Rahab’s words about God’s control are used in other parts of the Bible (Exodus 20:4; Deuteronomy 4:39; Deuteronomy 5:8). All of these verses say that God is the only Person we may worship. Rahab’s words show us that she chose to worship God with her own free will. She believes that God is the only true God. Rahab understands that God is all-powerful. As Judge of the whole earth, God will punish Rahab’s people for their sins.

Rahab understands that she has two choices: She can continue to sin against God. Or she can give her life to Him. If she continues to fight against God, she will be destroyed with her people. So, Rahab chooses to serve the God of Israel. Her choice makes her a shining example to the people in Jericho. The people could have been saved if they followed her example and accepted God’s mercy.