---
title:  New Loyalty
date:  07/10/2025
---

`Read Joshua 2:12–21. Now read Exodus 12:13, 22, 23. How do the verses in Exodus help you understand the agreement between the spies and Rahab?`

Rahab’s deal with the spies is plain and simple. She wants to exchange life for life and favor for favor. Rahab will save and help the spies. So, she expects them to save and help her family. The word written as “kind” in Joshua 2:12 (ERV) comes from the word “cḥesed” in the Hebrew language. “Cḥesed” has a rich meaning that is hard to translate with just one word in other languages. “Cḥesed” often is used to talk about someone’s loyalty to a promise. But “cḥesed” also can mean “faith,” “mercy,” “kind-hearted,” and “loving.”

Rahab’s words help us remember Deuteronomy 7:12. In this verse, the Lord promises to keep giving His “cḥesed” or love to Israel: “ ‘Pay attention to these laws. Obey them carefully. Then the Lord your God will keep his agreement and show his love to you. He promised your ancestors he would’ ” (Deuteronomy 7:12, ICB).

In Deuteronomy 7, God also commands Israel to destroy the Canaanites completely. What’s surprising is that Rahab is a Canaanite. She belongs to the people that God commands Israel to destroy. But Rahab believes in the prom­ises that God gave to the Israelites. So, God saves her.

Rahab’s conversation with the spies helps us remember the Passover during the Exodus. The Exodus was the time when God helped the Israelites escape from slavery in Egypt. During the Passover, Moses commanded the Israelites to mark the top and sides of their doors with the blood of a lamb. Then the people must stay inside their houses. The blood protected the people from the destroying angel when he passed over their houses (read Exodus 12:13; also read Exodus 12:22, 23).

“The people showed their faith with their obedience. We also must show our faith in the blood of Jesus. We must understand that we have something to do, too, if we want to be saved. Only Jesus can save us. At the same time, we must stop sinning. We must obey. God will save us with His mercy when we believe in Him. Our good behavior doesn’t save us. At the same time, our good behavior shows our faith. Our obedience shows that we believe that Jesus saves us.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 279, adapted.