---
title:  Hard Choices
date:  08/10/2025
---

`Read about the Gibeonites in Joshua 9:1–20. Compare this story with the story about Rahab. How are the two stories the same? How are they different?`

Joshua 9 and 10 tell us that the Canaanite kings decide to join together against Israel. During this time, the people who live in Gibeon decide to make a peace agreement with Israel.

The Gibeonites want to trick Israel into making the agreement with them. So, the Gibeonites pretend to be leaders from a foreign country. God told Israel to kill everyone who lived in the Promised Land. But God commanded Israel to show mercy first to people who lived outside the Promised Land.

The Gibeonites say many of the same things Rahab said. Both Rahab and the Gibeonites say that Israel’s God is very powerful. Both Rahab and the Gibeonites understand that Israel’s success comes from God, not from human strength. The Gibeonites are different from other Canaanites. The Gibeonites don’t fight against God’s plan to give their land to the Israelites. The Gibeonites also believe that the Lord is pushing the Canaanites out of the Promised Land for Israel. Both Rahab and the Gibeonites hear the news about how God saved the Israelites from Egypt. Rahab and the Gibeonites also hear about how God helps the Israelites win the fights against Sihon and Og. So, both Rahab and the Gibeonites want to be friends with Israel. But the Gibeonites refuse to serve the God of Israel. Rahab does not. Rahab wishes to serve Him and be saved. But the Gibeonites trick the Israelites into protecting them.

Moses taught that God’s people must ask Him what He wanted them to do before they did anything (Numbers 27:16–21). Joshua should have asked the Lord what He wanted him to do. Then God would have kept Joshua from being tricked.

The first job of Christian leaders is to ask God what He wants them to do (1 Chronicles 28:9; 2 Chronicles 15:2; 2 Chronicles 18:4; 2 Chronicles 20:4). The Israelites got trapped in the promise they made to the Gibeonites. If the Israelites let the Gibeonites live, they disobeyed God’s command about letting their enemies live. Or if they killed the Gibeonites, the Israelites broke their promise. Any choice they made caused them to break their promise to God.