---
title:  Surprising Mercy
date:  09/10/2025
---

`How did Joshua show that he was both fair and filled with mercy? Read Joshua 9:21–27 for the answer.`

What would happen if the Israelites attacked the Gibeonites? The Israelites couldn’t do that, even if they wanted to. The leaders of Israel made a promise to protect the Gibeonites. Yes, the Gibeonites tricked the leaders into making it. But as long as the Israelites’ promise didn’t break God’s law (Judges 11:29–40), they must keep their promise.

In the Old Testament, holy people kept their promises. They also made wise decisions. They didn’t make promises they couldn’t keep (Psalm 15:4; Psalm 24:4; Ecclesiastes 5:2, 6). Israel’s leaders made their promise to the Gibeonites in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel. So, the leaders couldn’t change their promise.

Now, because of this promise, the Israelites and the Gibeonites were connected forever. The Gibeonites worked as the woodcutters and water carriers for God’s house (Joshua 9:23). So, the Gibeonites became part of Israel’s worship community. The leaders of Israel announce that the Gibeonites will be Israel’s servants (Joshua 9:21). But Joshua’s words change this curse into a blessing for the Gibeonites.

Bible history shows us that the Gibeonites were loyal to God’s people. God showed them His loving favor. The Israelites kept their promise to the Gibeonites for hundreds of years. So, when the Israelites came back from Babylon, the Gibeonites helped them rebuild Jerusalem (Nehemiah 7:25).

What if the Gibeonites didn’t trick Israel and asked for God’s mercy, just as Rahab did? Would God save them? We don’t know the answer. We do know God’s plan is to save sinners. He doesn’t want to punish them. He wants them to stop sinning and accept His mercy (compare with Ezekiel 18:23 and Ezekiel 33:11). For sure, the Gibeonites’ trick was wrong. But we must believe that the Gibeonites really ­wanted God to show them mercy. The other Canaanites refused to stop sinning or honor God’s plan. So, God destroyed them (Genesis 15:16). But God honored the Gibeonites because they believed He was all-powerful. The Gibeonites also ­wanted to be at peace with Israel. So, they chose to stop worshiping false gods and to worship only the Lord.