---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  10/10/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Crossing the Jordan,” pages 482, 483, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

After we read about Rahab and the spies, the Old Testament doesn’t say anything else about her. In the New Testament, Rahab shows up in the family line of Jesus. The Bible says that Rahab became the wife of Salmon. Salmon was from the family group of Judah. Rahab was the mother of Boaz, who married Ruth. So, Rahab was Ruth’s mother-in-law (Matthew 1:5; compare with Ruth 4:13, 21). Think about Rahab’s amazing change! Rahab used to be a prostitute. As we already saw, a prostitute is someone who has sex for pay. As a citizen of Jericho, Rahab would have been destroyed. But Rahab believes in God. Because of her faith, Rahab becomes an ancestor of King David and of Jesus. See what God can do when we believe, even if our faith is as small as a mustard seed! (Read Matthew 17:20; Luke 17:6.)

“Rahab isn’t the only person who worshiped false gods and then later accepted God’s mercy. The Gibeonites gave up their false gods. They joined with Israel and shared in the blessings of God’s promise.

“God doesn’t show favor to people because of where they were born or who their family is. God made all of us. So, we are all part of God’s family. Jesus came to break every wall that separates us from God and from other people. God wants us to come to Him. He doesn’t want anything to get in our way. God’s love is so deep, big, and powerful. God’s love can reach anyone wherever they are. God’s love lifts us out of Satan’s control. God’s love helps save us from Satan’s lies. God’s love brings us to His throne. God’s rainbow is around His throne. This rainbow is a symbol of God’s promise to us. God’s promise is for everyone who believes in Jesus. His promise is for Jews and Greeks alike, for slaves and for free people.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 369, 370, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`What does it mean to give someone a second chance? Are there times when we shouldn’t give people second chances? If yes, what are some examples?`

`How is Rahab an example of faith?`

`How can we show people mercy and also be fair?`