---
title:  Passover
date:   26/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 11:1–10; Exodus 12:1–20; Exodus 12:17–23; Exodus 12:24–28; Exodus 12:29, 30.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “ ‘When your children ask you, “Why are we doing these things?” you will say, “This is the Passover sacrifice [offering] to honor the Lord. When we were in Egypt, the Lord passed over the houses of Israel. The Lord killed the Egyptians, but he saved our homes.” ’ So now the people bowed down and worshiped the Lord” (Exodus 12:26, 27, ICB).

The 10<sup>th</sup> punishment is about to fall on Egypt. Moses gives Pharaoh, king of Egypt, his last warning. The king must make his final decision. Pharaoh and his leaders will soon make a decision that will cause the life or death of many people. Pharaoh’s decision will change the lives of everyone in Egypt forever. Pharaoh’s thoughts and feelings about the living God of Israel will decide his future and that of every Egyptian.

How do we feel, and what do we do, when we must make a choice that will change the lives of so many people?

God is more than willing to give us wisdom, understanding, and power to make the right decision (1 Corinthians 1:30; Philippians 2:13).

Sad to say, we don’t always want to do what is right. We know what is right, but we refuse to do it. In the story about how God helped Israel escape from Egypt, one king  refused to obey God. The king’s decision hurt many people and destroyed his country.