---
title:  God Tells His People To Be Fair
date:   27/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Amos was a prophet or special messenger from God. Amos said, “When the Lord God decides to do something, he will first tell his servants, the prophets” (Amos 3:7, ERV). God told His prophet Moses what will happen next for Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. Moses gave Pharaoh a strong warning. God was going to punish Pharaoh’s pride and other sins. These sins included Pharaoh’s worship of false gods. Pharaoh also hurt God’s people and made them his slaves. All of the king’s sins caused God to punish Egypt.

`What warning did God give Pharaoh before He punished Egypt? Read Exodus 11:1–10 for the answer.`

God gave Egypt time: three days of darkness (Exodus 10:22, 23). During this time, God wanted the Egyptians to think about things that happened and what they meant. God gave the Egyptians a final warning. The warning was clear. God gave the Egyptians a final chance to do the right thing.

But Exodus 11:8 says that “Moses was very angry when he left Pharaoh” (NIrV). Why was Moses so angry? Maybe because he knew that the 10<sup>th</sup> punishment would cause a terrible disaster in the lives of many innocent people. All of these things happened because Pharaoh was so stubborn.

Ten is an important number in the Bible. Ten shows us something that is complete, full, or perfect. (Think about the Ten Commandments as a perfect example of God’s law.) The ten punishments that fell on Egypt show God’s full anger at Egypt’s sin.

God is the Judge. He hates pride. He also hates when people aren’t fair. God hates when people are selfish, mean, or hurt other people. God feels love and pity on people who suffer. God will punish evil. God’s work as Judge shows us His love. (Read Psalm 2:12; Psalm 33:5; Psalm 85:11; Psalm 89:14; Psalm 101:1; Isaiah 16:5; Jeremiah 9:24.)

We, too, should try the best we can to be both loving and fair. We easily can love too much or too little. We may pretend not to see wrongs in other people that need to be corrected. We also can do what is right with no love in our hearts. Both ways are wrong. But “the Lord has told you what is good. He has told you what he wants from you: Do what is right to other people. Love being kind to others. And live humbly [with no pride in your heart], trusting your God” (Micah 6:8, ICB).