---
title:  The Passover
date:   28/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What does God want Israel to do before they leave Egypt? Read Exodus 12:1–20 for the answer.`

We may expect God to tell Moses and Aaron about how to get the people ready to leave Egypt. What should they do for old people, mothers with small children, animals, and so on? But God gives Moses and Aaron surprising orders. God tells them how to celebrate the Passover. The Passover was the time when God killed in one night the Egyptians’ sons who were born first and saved His people from this punishment. So, God’s orders are about worship.

Each family must cook a lamb. The Israelites must not waste any part of the lamb. Every family member must eat part of it. If the family couldn’t eat the whole lamb, they must eat their meal together with another family.

`What was the Lord going to do for His people when the final punishment fell on Egypt? Read Exodus 12:13, 14 for the answer. What does God’s protection symbolize?`

God commanded the Israelites to celebrate the Exodus each year. The Exodus was the time when God helped His people escape from Egypt. God wanted His people to remember how He saved them in the past. He also wanted His people to trust in Him to save them now and in the future.

Verses 12 and 13 explain the meaning of the Passover: God’s punishment will “pass over” the Israelites and not hurt them. The word “passover” is a combination of two words: “pass” and “over,” because the punishment “passed over” the homes of the Israelites that were marked with the lamb’s blood. The lamb’s blood was the sign of life and God’s saving mercy. In the Hebrew language, the name of the Passover is “Pesach,” which comes from an action word that means “to pass over.”

The celebration of the Passover helped the Israelites to remember the mighty and loving things that God did to save His people. This celebration helped the Israelites to become a people and gave them strong reasons for their faith in God.

`Why is it so important to remember the good things God did for us in the past? How does our remembering help us trust that God will do good things for us in the future?`