---
title:  Pesach, The Passover
date:   29/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read about the Passover feast in Exodus 12:17–23. Why is blood an important part of this new celebration? The blood of the killed animal is an important part of the Passover celebration. As we saw already, Passover was the time when God killed in one night the Egyptians’ sons who were born first. God saved His people from this punishment. In faith, the people put the blood of the killed lamb on the doorframes of their houses. In this way, the Israelites showed their faith that God would save them from the coming punishment. The blood shows us a powerful example of the Good News that Jesus saves us from our sins!`

The Passover lamb must be perfect because it was a symbol of Jesus’ perfect offering for our sins. Jesus is “the Lamb of God Who takes away [removes] the sin of the world [the people on the earth]!” (John 1:29, NLV). The animal’s blood showed God’s protection and was the sign of life at a time of death. The Lord promised, “ ‘But the blood will be a sign on the houses where you are. When I see the blood, I will pass over you. Nothing terrible will hurt you when I punish the land of Egypt’ ” (Exodus 12:13, ICB).

Hundreds of years later, Paul wrote about this celebration: “Clean out the old yeast [makes bread rise]. Then you will be new bread with none of the old yeast in you. The Jews killed lambs when they left Egypt. Christ [Jesus] is our lamb. He has already been killed as a gift on the altar to God for us” (1 Corinthians 5:7, NLV).

Yeast was added to dough. The yeast helped the bread to rise. The first time the Bible talks about dough is in the story about the Passover, on the night the Israelites got ready to leave Egypt. God commanded the people to make bread without any yeast. God also commanded the Israelites to remove all yeast from their homes. Yeast is an example of how sin behaves (1 Corinthians 5:6–8). So, the people must not use yeast during the Passover celebration for a whole week.

The bread with no yeast is a word picture for the Savior who did not sin. Jesus gave up His life for us (John 1:29; 1 Corinthians 5:7; Hebrews 4:15). Priests or religious leaders dipped the hyssop, a special plant, in the blood of a lamb. The hyssop was a word picture for God’s loving forgiveness that makes us clean from all sin (Psalm 51:7, NIrV). So, the Passover shows us the saving work of Jesus.