---
title:  Teaching Our Children
date:   30/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The writer of the Psalms explains how our children can know about God and His loving care: “Parents will tell their children what you have done. They will retell [tell again] your mighty acts” (Psalm 145:4, ICB). One family should talk to another family about God, the wonderful things He did, and His teachings. In this way, parents will teach their children about Bible truth.

`Read Exodus 12:24–28. What important idea do we read about in these verses?`

Parents were the first teachers in Israel. God commanded the parents to tell the story of the Exodus to their children. The Exodus was the time when God led His people out of slavery **in** Egypt. God wanted the parents to talk about the Exodus as their own experience, and not just as something that happened in the past. When the parents celebrated the Exodus, they lived their history again. The Israelites were in Egypt when God commanded them to celebrate their freedom **from** Egyptian slavery. So, the whole celebration was an act of faith.

In the book of Deuteronomy, Moses tells the Israelites to share the story about their past in a way that makes it their own story. Look at the way the story gets told in these verses: “Then you will speak while the Lord is listening. You will say, ‘My father Jacob was a wanderer from the land of Aram. He went down into Egypt with a few people. He lived there and became the father of a great [mighty] nation. It had huge [big] numbers of people. But the people of Egypt treated us badly [hurt us]. They made us suffer. They made us work very hard. Then we cried out to the Lordord. He is the God of our people who lived long ago. He heard our voice. He saw how much we were suffering. The Egyptians were treating us badly. They were making us work very hard. So the Lordord used his mighty hand and powerful arm to bring us out of Egypt. He did great [wonderful] and terrifying things. He did signs and amazing things. He brought us to this place. He gave us this land. It’s a land that has plenty of milk and honey’ ” (Deuteronomy 26:5–9, NIrV). When parents told their stories to their children in this way, the stories also helped the parents to remember everything God did for them in the past.