---
title:  Punishment From God
date:   31/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 12:29, 30, which tells the story about how God killed the Egyptians’ sons who were born first. Why did God kill these children? (Also read Hebrews 11:28.)`

The last punishment fell on the Egyptians’ sons who were born first. This punishment showed God’s anger against all the gods of Egypt and the families who worshiped these false gods. As we saw with the earlier punishments, these false gods couldn’t save the Egyptians. The 10<sup>th</sup> punishment showed how useless the gods of the Egyptians really were. This final punishment brought the worst suffering on the Egyptians.

“God punished the pride in the hearts of the Egyptians in every house in the land. The cries of the Egyptians filled the air. The faces of the king and his followers were white with fear and their legs and arms shook. The death of their children filled them with fear.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 280, adapted.

Pharaoh, king of Egypt, was the highest power in the land. The people believed that he was a god of Egypt. So, the people believed his oldest son was the son of a god. Isis was a female god who protected children. Heqet was a female god who helped women during childbirth. Min was a god who helped people make babies. Many other Egyptian gods helped people have babies. But all of these gods had no power. Only the living Lord had power. Moses says, “ ‘Lordord, who among the gods is like [the same as] you? Who is like you? You are majestic [royal] and holy. Your glory fills me with wonder. You do amazing things’ ” (Exodus 15:11, NIrV). Jethro later said, “ ‘Now I know the Lordord is greater [more powerful] than all the gods. They thought they were in control, but look what God did!’ ” (Exodus 18:11, ERV).

Exodus 1 tells us that the Egyptians killed the newborn sons of Israel on Pharaoh’s command. Pharaoh ordered the babies to be killed to weaken the Israelites and to fill them with shame. Now God punishes all the Egyptians. He takes their first-born sons. God will allow us to suffer the same things we do to cause other people to suffer. Our decisions and behavior change other people’s lives, for good or evil. The sad truth is that when we do wrong, we aren’t the only ones who suffer. Sometimes many other people, including innocent people, will suffer, too. That is the sad truth about sin.