---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   01/08/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Passover,” pages 273–280, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

As we saw already, Passover was the time when God killed in one night the Egyptians’ sons who were born first. God saved His people from this punishment. “The Passover was both a celebration and a word picture. The Passover helped God’s people remember how He helped them escape from slavery in Egypt. Also, the Passover helped the people look forward to the work Jesus would do. Jesus would help His people escape from the slavery to sin. The lamb that was killed was a symbol of ‘the Lamb of God’ [John 1:29, ERV]. This lamb is our only hope of being saved. Paul says, ‘Christ, our Passover lamb, was killed to cleanse [make clean] us.’ 1 Corinthians 5:7 [ICB]. The Passover Lamb must be killed. Then its blood must be painted on the doorframes. In the same way, the blood of Jesus must make us clean from all sin. We must believe that Jesus died for each one of us. We must accept His offering for our sins.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 277, adapted.

To this day, many Jewish families worldwide celebrate Pesach or Passover. These families have a special feast named a “Seder.” During the Seder, Jewish families tell the story about the Exodus, the time when God helped His people escape from slavery in Egypt. After the story, the families enjoy a special meal together. Just think: Jewish people have been keeping this same feast since the time of the Exodus! Amazing!

**Discussion Questions:**

`Was God really “fair” when He struck down the sons of Egypt? How should we understand this story?`

`What do we mean when we say that we are covered with the blood of Jesus?`

`“Christians must share in the experience of Jesus. They must accept Bible truth and live it so that it becomes the reason for everything they do in life. They must become the same as Jesus in their hearts. They must show God’s love and mercy. . . . The spirit and work of Jesus must become the spirit and work of His followers.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 278, adapted. How do we allow Jesus to do in us what is written in this quote?`