---
title:  Heaven And Earth, Listen! 
date:  27/12/2020
---

The book of Isaiah starts by telling us that the writer is “Isaiah the son of Amoz” (Isaiah 1:1, NLV). God gives Isaiah his message in a “special dream” (Isaiah 1:1, NLV). Isaiah’s dream is about what will happen to “Judh and Jerusalem” during the time of “Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah,” the “kings of Judah” (Isaiah 1:1, NLV). The book also tells us that Isaiah’s message is for the people of his own country during the time that he lived. Isaiah talks to his people about their spiritual life and what will happen to them in the future.

Isaiah is a prophet. A prophet is God’s special messenger to His people. Isaiah works during the time of the four kings named in Isaiah 1:1. These four kings help us to see that Isaiah talks to the people who lived in the time of these kings. We can read more about what happened during this time in 2 Kings 15–20 and 2 Chronicles 26–32.

`Read Isaiah 1:2. What is the message in this verse? What does the Lord say? How do we see this same idea from the beginning to the end of Bible history? Is the same thing true about the Christian church today, too? Explain.`

Do you see how Isaiah’s message starts with the words “Heaven and earth, listen!” (Isaiah 1:2, ERV; compare Deuteronomy 30:19 and Deuteronomy 31:28)? Is the Lord really saying that heaven and earth can hear and understand? Of course not! God uses these words to get our attention. He wants us to listen carefully to what He says.

During Bible times, powerful kings from the Near East often make agreements with leaders who are less powerful. The more powerful king asks his gods to be his witnesses. Why does the king do this? Because he wants to show that the gods will punish anyone who breaks the agreement. In the same way, God makes an agreement with Israel in Moses’ time. But God does not ask other gods to be witnesses. God is the only true God. He made everything in heaven and earth. So, He asks for the heavens and earth to be the witnesses (also read Deuteronomy 4:26).

`Read carefully Isaiah 1:1–9. What are the sins of Judah in these verses? What happens because of her sins? At the same time, what hope do we see in Isaiah 1:9?`