---
title:  Empty Worship 
date:  28/12/2020
---

`Read Isaiah 1:10. Why do you think Isaiah uses Sodom and Gomorrah as word pictures in these verses? What is the Lord saying to His people?`

`Read Isaiah 1:11–15. In these verses, what does the Lord tell the people? Why does the Lord turn away from the worship that His people offer Him?`

God’s people are guilty of crimes. Their hands are “ ‘covered with blood’ ” (Isaiah 1:15, ERV). What does that mean? God is saying that His people beat each other and hurt their servants (Isaiah 1:15; Isaiah 58:3, 4). Worse, God’s people used these same hands to pray to God and offered Him gifts! When God’s people hurt each other, they show that they do not respect God Himself. Sins against other people are sins against the Lord.

Of course, God Himself taught Israel how to worship Him (Leviticus 1–16). He chose the temple in Jerusalem as the place where He wants His people to worship Him (1 Kings 8:10, 11). But God wanted worship to help His people remember their agreement with Him. God’s agreement, or covenant, with His people makes it possible for Him to live with His people at His temple. So, the people’s prayers and religious acts only have meaning if they have faith in their hearts. They must show that they believe in God and His covenant. People who offer God gifts must confess their sins against other people. If they do not, their worship is a lie. God will not accept their gifts. Worse, those gifts are sins! Their empty worship shows on the outside that they are loyal to God. But their behavior shows that they break the covenant.

`Read Isaiah 1:16, 17. As we see in these verses, what does the Lord tell His people to do? How is the message in these verses the same as Jesus’ words in Matthew 23:23–28? What message can we find for ourselves today in both sets of verses?`