---
title:  Forgiveness 
date:  29/12/2020
---

`Read Isaiah 1:18. What do you feel the Lord is saying in this verse? (Read the next few verses to get a better understanding of verse 18.)`

God says that the people of Judea are guilty. God accuses the people of breaking His agreement with them (Isaiah 1:2–15). God asks them to change (Isaiah 1:16, 17). This shows that there is hope for God’s people. Why ask a criminal to change his behavior? Can a prisoner who is going to die for his crimes “ ‘punish those [people] who hurt others [persons]. Speak up for the widows and orphans. Argue their cases for them in court’ ” (Isaiah 1:17, ERV)? Of course not! But when God says, “ ‘Come, we will talk these things over’ ” (Isaiah 1:18, ICB), we see that the Lord keeps trying to work things out with His people. He wants them to turn away from sin and their evil ways.

The Lord tells His people that their sins will be “ ‘white as snow’ ” (Isaiah 1:18, ERV). Why are sins red? Because red is the color of the “blood” (Isaiah 1:15, ERV) that covers the hands of God’s people. White is the color of a clean heart and no guilt. So, these word pictures show us that God wants to change His people. King David uses similar word pictures when he cries to God for forgiveness for his sin (read Psalm 51:7, 14). David sins by stealing Bathsheba from her husband, Uriah. Then David tells his general to destroy Uriah. In Isaiah 1:18, God offers to forgive His people.

`How does God’s offer of forgiveness also show that He wants His people to change their ways? (Compare Isaiah 1:18 to Isaiah 44:22 to help answer the question.)`

Now we see why God warns His people with very strong words. God is not turning away from His people. He wants to bring them back to Himself. God wants to forgive them so that they will let Him clean their hearts and minds (Isaiah 1:16, 17). God’s forgiveness makes it possible for Him to change His people. Jeremiah 31:31–34 shows us more about this idea. God’s forgiveness makes it possible for us to be close to God in our hearts. We owe God so much. We cannot hope to pay Him for everything He gives us. But we can confess our need for God’s forgiveness. Then we will be ready to accept everything God has to give.