---
title:  To Eat Or Be Eaten 
date:  30/12/2020
---

`Read Isaiah 1:19–31. What idea do you see in these verses that we also can see in the whole Bible?`

Do you see the connection in Isaiah 1:19–31 between doing good and getting a reward? If the people choose to obey God, they will eat the good things from the land (Isaiah 1:19). But if God’s people refuse God’s offer to forgive them and make them new, then they will be “ ‘eaten [killed] by the swords’ ” (Isaiah 1:20, EXB) of their enemies. The choice is theirs.

In Isaiah 1, we read words that are almost as the same as the ones Moses says in Deuteronomy 30:19, 20. Moses writes these words at the time when God sets up His covenant, or special agreement, with His people. He says “ ‘Today I am giving you a choice of [between] two ways. And I ask heaven and earth to be witnesses of your choice. You can choose life or death. The first choice will bring a blessing. The other choice will bring a curse’ ” (Deuteronomy 30:19, ERV).

`Look at Moses’ words in Deuteronomy 30:19, 20. Do you see that there are only two choices? Life or death, blessings or curses. Why do think we have only two choices? Why can’t there be more?`

Moses’ words come after a long list of warnings, blessings, and curses that are part of God’s special agreement with His people in Deuteronomy 27–30 (compare these chapters to Leviticus 26). God’s agreement has several parts: (1) the things that God has done for His people; (2) the commandments that God’s people must obey; (3) witnesses; and (4) blessings and curses to warn the people what will happen if they break God’s agreement.

These same parts are included in agreements between non-Jews during Bible times. So, we see that God uses a form for His agreement that His people already know about. This helps His people understand more fully what will happen if they break the agreement. The blessings of the special agreement are wonderful! But if Israel fails to do their part, they will be worse off than before.

`In your Christian experience, have you ever known the blessings or curses that Moses talks about in Deuteronomy?`