---
title:  A Love Song Fills The Heart With Fear 
date:  31/12/2020
---

`Read the song in Isaiah 5:1–7. This song is also a picture story. What does this picture story mean?`

God explains the meaning of the picture story at the end, in Isaiah 5:7. God uses a picture story to help His people to see what is in their hearts. God does the same thing with King David (read 2 Samuel 12:1–13). God names this picture story a “ ‘love song’ ” (Isaiah 5:1, CEB). This name shows what God wants from His people and what is in His heart. God is love (1 John 4:8). God expects His people to love Him back. God compares this love to “good grapes” (Isaiah 5:2, ERV). But God does not get “grapes” from His people. He gets only “bad grapes” (Isaiah 5:2, ICB) or “rotten ones” (Isaiah 5:2, ERV). In Hebrew, “rotten grapes” mean “stinking things.”

`What does the Lord mean when He says in Isaiah 5:4 (ERV), “ ‘What more could I do for my vineyard [grape garden]? I did everything I could’ ”?`

Next, God says, “ ‘Now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard [grape garden]: I will pull up the thornbushes that protect it, and I will burn them. I will break down the stone wall and then use the stones for a walkway. I will turn my vineyard into useless land’ ” (Isaiah 5:5, 6, ERV).

When we sin, God does not cut us off at that time. He does not stop protecting us right away. He does not destroy us. He gives us time to accept His forgiveness (read 2 Peter 3:9). God does not cut off anyone who turns to Him. God continues to try to win us back to Him as long as there is hope that we will accept Him. God does not take No for an answer very easily. He knows that we are tricked by sin. But if God cannot change our minds, He accepts our choice. He lets us stay the way we choose to be (read Revelation 22:11).

The Holy Spirit continues to invite us to come to God. If we keep saying No to God’s invitation, He will stop asking us to come back. God knows we will not change our minds (Matthew 12:31, 32). Our turning away from Jesus puts us in danger (Hebrews 6:4–6). God will not force us to come back to Him. If we do not go back to God, then He has to let us go. Why? Because He respects our free choice.