---
title:  Further Thought
date:  01/01/2021
---

Read this quote from Ellen G. White about Isaiah 1:4: “God’s people separate from Him. They lose their wisdom and understanding. They lose sight of what is important. They forget that God made them clean from their old sins. They feel no peace in their spirits. They live in spiritual darkness. They try to erase from their minds the memory of the freedom, safety, and happiness they had in the past. They do things that are foolish and make no sense. God cannot bless the people because of their behavior. They share their guilt. They pay attention to Satan’s words against God. They show everyone a false picture of God. Their behavior says that God has no mercy or forgiveness.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 4, page 1137, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How can you “wash yourselves and make yourselves clean” (Isaiah 1:16, ERV)? What does this verse mean? (Read Philippians 2:12, 13 to help you answer the questions.)`

`2.	Read Matthew 21:33–45; Mark 12:1–12; and Luke 20:9–19. As these verses show, how does Jesus take the idea of the love song of the grape garden and use it in His day? What changes does He make to the idea? How does He add to it too? What lessons does this story teach us as Seventh-day Adventists?`

`What connection is there between God’s forgiveness and His promise to change our lives? Which one comes first? Is it a total life change and then forgiveness? Or is it forgiveness and then a total life change? Why is it important to know which one comes first?`

`In the quote above Ellen G. White says, “God cannot bless the people because of their behavior.” What does that mean?`

**Summary**: God’s people turn away from Him and forget Him. They do not thank Him for His blessings. God shows His people that they must keep their agreement with Him. In mercy, God shows them their danger. He warns them about what will happen if they turn from Him. Then God asks them to come to Him so that He can heal them and make them clean.