---
title: 'Faith like Wi-Fi'
date: 17/05/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Mark 9:14–29

It’s been said that “faith is like Wi-Fi. It’s invisible, but it has the power to connect you to what you need.” There’s no doubt that without faith, we would have no relationship with God.

What’s your faith like today? Has your faith in God ever been shaky? Perhaps you’ve experienced something that challenged you to the point where you’ve been unsure how to move forward in your relationship with God. Or is your faith like a tiny bud that eventually opens into a bold, colorful flower and fills the room with an unforgettable scent? Truly, “faith shows the reality of what we hope for; it is the evidence of things we cannot see” (Heb. 11:1, NLT). It’s not something we can generate by ourselves, for “God has dealt to each one a measure of faith” (Rom. 12:3). Faith is a gift from God (Eph. 2:8, 9), and even then, our faith in God is possible only because of what God is already doing in and for us.

Maybe you’ve heard someone say, “If I could just see the Red Sea parted, or manna on the ground, or Jesus heal a blind man, then I would believe.” Or perhaps you have had the same kinds of thoughts yourself.

On the other hand, shouldn’t it be easier for us to have faith now than it was for those in ancient Bible times? The Israelites didn’t have the whole Bible, nor did they have such a long history to look back on, as we do. Moses reinforced the importance of looking back in order to remember God’s leading and goodness (see Deut. 4:7–10; 8:2, 3). Unlike the Israelites, we have six thousand years of Bible history to draw from.

Every generation wants a sign, and ours is no different. But signs are all around us. If you read Matthew 24 and the books of Daniel and Revelation, you will see how many prophecies have been and are being fulfilled even now. Every fulfilled prophecy is a sign to anchor our faith and establish our confidence in God’s promises.

The Pharisees demanded that Jesus show them a sign (Mark 8:11). Do we argue with Jesus and test Him as did the Pharisees? Do we require God to send signs according to our terms and on our schedule? Do we make Him “[sigh] deeply in His spirit” (Mark 8:12) because of our lack of faith, when He has already given us all we need to believe?

Sometimes we convince ourselves that a sign is all we need when God knows a sign will not help us. When the Pharisees demanded a sign, they were ignoring their real spiritual issues that needed to be addressed. “These signs were not what the Jews needed. No mere external evidence could benefit them. What they needed was not intellectual enlightenment, but spiritual renovation.”<sup>1</sup> Could it be that we, too, need spiritual renovation—a genuine, moment-by-moment walk with God? Perhaps we actually don’t need a sign because we have a lot of knowledge at our fingertips, especially in our own Bibles.

So, instead of making Jesus “[sigh] deeply” because of our lack of faith, may we remember the words Jesus spoke to Thomas: “Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed” (John 20:29). May we have the kind of faith that is strong even when we do not see (Heb. 11:1). God does not ask us to have blind faith—He has already given us so many reasons to believe. Even with all these reasons, there is always room for doubt. The key is to focus on what affirms faith, not on what brings doubt.

This week let’s explore the topic of faith: what to do with doubt and unbelief, understanding what faith is and what it is not, and what it means to have “the faith of Jesus.”

### inScribe

`Write out Mark 9:17–24 from the translation of your choice. What does this story teach you about overcoming doubt?`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages (1898), 406.