---
title:  Dynamic Faith
date:   17/05/2026
---

### inGest

In Mark 9:17–19, we read about a man who reported to Jesus that the disciples lacked the power to deliver his son from the grip of demons. The man also questioned whether Jesus would be able to help him. His request was filled with doubt: “If You can do anything…” (Mark 9:22).

Jesus’ response to this man addresses every doubter throughout human history. Jesus invites the skeptic to believe: “If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes” (Mark 9:23). The man could only muster up enough faith to say, “Lord, I believe; help my unbelief!” (Mark 9:24). Jesus did not require the man to have perfect faith. In fact, Jesus needs only a tiny bit of faith like a mustard seed to start with (Matt. 17:20). As long as we’re willing to work with Him, God will help our faith to grow.

This story provides an important reminder that faith and doubt can exist together. Nobody should walk away from God simply because they have doubts as this man did. The story also demonstrates that faith is not static. Faith is a dynamic condition that can either grow stronger with time or deteriorate and become weaker. This gives hope to those who want more faith. Even hardened skeptics can become firm believers. The opposite is also true. Lifelong believers can lose their faith if they do not continually nurture it (Heb. 10:23). This is a sober warning to believers who may be tempted to become comfortable and take their faith for granted.

This father’s story should encourage all to ask God for more faith. With tears, this man cried out and pled with Jesus to help him believe. We can also recognize our unbelief and ask God to increase our faith. This will be the sincere prayer of those who take ownership of their faith and are struggling with unbelief.

Unfortunately, some people do not take ownership of their faith. They try to borrow faith from other people like the five foolish virgins who panicked and tried to borrow oil from friends (Matt. 25:8). When a crisis strikes, those who are depending on somebody else’s faith lose it very quickly. Those who endure to the end must establish their own personal connection with God.

Just because we’re following Jesus doesn’t automatically mean our faith is strong. In fact, the disciples themselves often had weak faith, even after the resurrection (Mark 16:11–14). Perhaps this is why Paul urged believers to “Examine yourselves as to whether you are in the faith” (2 Cor. 13:5). We should search our own hearts and pray for more faith.

**Questions to explore:**

`In just sixty seconds, how would you describe your faith in God? What does your answer tell you about your walk with God?`