---
title:  Faith and Feeling
date:   18/05/2026
---

### inTerpret

Some people might think they don’t have faith because they don’t feel close to God, or they aren’t the kind of Christian they think they should be. However, faith is about believing and trusting God, not only in the good times but in darkness or in a storm, or even when you can’t fully understand what is going on in your life.

Feelings should never dominate our religious experience or our relationship with God. It’s precisely when we think we’re distant from God that we need to exercise our faith and call on Him as did the father in Mark 9:24. As Ellen G. White wrote, “Many do not exercise that faith which it is their privilege and duty to exercise, often waiting for that feeling which faith alone can bring. Feeling is not faith.… Faith is ours to exercise, but joyful feeling and the blessing are God’s to give.”<sup>1</sup>

Faith does not depend on some exciting event or emotional high. Faith is based upon God’s Word (Rom. 10:17). Believing is a deliberate choice that is made in the mind, and this is sometimes contrary to feeling.

Faith is not a material thing; it’s a human response prompted by the Holy Spirit. God is the gracious initiator, who, through the Holy Spirit, draws us to Himself when we allow Him to do so (Jer. 31:3). We’re saved by grace, through faith, which is a response to God’s grace given to us through Jesus’ death. We are saved because we believe in God as a result of His grace. This lies at the heart of having a relationship with Him.

When we have doubts about God, His character, or His Word, what do we do with them? God does not ignore or bypass human reason, for He created us in His image and invites us to dialogue with Him, as He did with Abraham, Moses, and Job. God invites us to learn to work within His large, infinite patterns of reason, even if at some point we must surrender to what we don’t fully understand. Though the Holy Spirit prompts us to believe, the enemy of souls wants us to indulge doubt and dismiss God’s involvement in our lives. Ultimately, we choose to nurture either belief or unbelief and thus determine the direction that we will go.

Nobody has doubts or feelings so great that God is unable to grow their faith. He gives each person a measure of faith (Rom. 12:3) with the wonderful possibility of growth. What we do with the faith God gives us is our choice.

`Think of all the logical reasons you have for faith. At the same time, at what point does logic stop and faith, solid and reasonable faith, need to be exerted?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Mark 9. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Early Writings (1882), 72.