---
title: 'The Faith of Jesus'
date: 21/05/2026
---

### inVite

Part of the three angels’ messages given at the close of the world describes God having a people on this earth who keep the commandments of God and have the faith of Jesus (Rev. 14:12). These are people who have developed an unshakable faith despite the pressure of the world to compromise their principles.

If you study the history of how Seventh-day Adventists have understood justification by faith, you’ll see that in the 1890s, an understanding of the faith of Jesus and the three angels’ messages was greatly emphasized in the church. Up until then, the church had put a great deal of emphasis on the law, and a greater emphasis on the gospel was needed. Ellen G. White summarized it well: “The commandments of God have been proclaimed, but the faith of Jesus Christ has not been proclaimed by Seventh-day Adventists as of equal importance, the law and the gospel going hand in hand.”<sup>1</sup>

Having the faith of Jesus means that through obedience to Him and His Word we will emulate the faith that He had in God. Moreover, the faith of Jesus also refers to an active and living daily experience with Jesus. It means knowing and acting on the fact that only placing Jesus at the center of our daily lives brings us into a saving relationship with God.

The faith of Jesus is a faith that does not cave under extreme pressure. The strength of Jesus’ faith was on full display in the Garden of Gethsemane when everything inside of Him wanted to escape the suffering (Matt. 26:36–42). Even so, He stayed faithful to what His Father was asking Him to do.

The faith of Jesus is not something we can produce on our own. It’s something that we can only receive from God. Having the faith of Jesus means having Jesus abiding in us, and thus having His faith in our hearts, for Jesus is the true foundation of our faith. At times, our faith might be feeble. However, Jesus is worthy (Rev. 5:9), and we can receive His faith, both reflected in our own experience and credited to us, by His gift of grace to all who believe.

How much do you want the faith of Jesus? Humbly ask God to give it to you and claim Hebrews 11:6 as your personal prayer, saying, “Lord, without faith it’s impossible to please You. I come to You and believe that You are, and that You will reward me when I diligently seek You. I do so now.”

**Questions to consider:**

`What experiences and opportunities has God given you to strengthen your faith?`

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, vol. 3 (1980), 172