---
title: 'Growing Faith'
date: 22/05/2026
---

### inSight

“Nothing is apparently more helpless, yet really more invincible, than the soul that feels its nothingness and relies wholly on the merits of the Saviour. By prayer, by the study of His word, by faith in His abiding presence, the weakest of human beings may live in contact with the living Christ, and He will hold them by a hand that will never let go.”<sup>1</sup>

“Their [the disciples’] faith must be strengthened by fervent prayer and fasting, and humiliation of heart. They must be emptied of self, and be filled with the Spirit and power of God. Earnest, persevering supplication to God in faith—faith that leads to entire dependence upon God, and unreserved consecration to His work—can alone avail to bring men the Holy Spirit’s aid in the battle against principalities and powers, the rulers of the darkness of this world, and wicked spirits in high places.

“‘If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed,’ said Jesus, ‘ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove.’ Though the grain of mustard seed is so small, it contains that same mysterious life principle which produces growth in the loftiest tree. When the mustard seed is cast into the ground, the tiny germ lays hold of every element that God has provided for its nutriment, and it speedily develops a sturdy growth. If you have faith like this, you will lay hold upon God’s word, and upon all the helpful agencies He has appointed. Thus your faith will strengthen, and will bring to your aid the power of heaven. The obstacles that are piled by Satan across your path, though apparently as insurmountable as the eternal hills, shall disappear before the demand of faith. ‘Nothing shall be impossible unto you.’”<sup>2</sup>

“Faith in Jesus will grow as you become better acquainted with your Redeemer by dwelling upon His spotless life and His infinite love. You cannot dishonor God more than to profess to be His disciple while you keep at a distance from Him, and are not fed and nourished by His Holy Spirit. When you are growing in grace, you will love to attend religious meetings, and you will gladly bear testimony of the love of Christ before the congregation. God, by His grace, can make the young man prudent, and He can give to the children knowledge and experience. They can grow in grace daily. You should not measure your faith by your feelings.”<sup>3</sup>

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing (1905), 182.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages (1898), 431.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> Ellen G. White, The Youth’s Instructor, September 1, 1886.