---
title: inQuire
date: 23/05/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Struggling with doubt:**

1. How did Jesus help a man who was struggling with unbelief? Mark 9:17–24
2. How do you think it is possible that this father could have doubts and belief at the same time? Should we turn away from God just because we have questions and doubts?
3. How much faith does a person need to begin a journey with God? Matt. 17:20

`Personal reflection: How much can you identify with the experience of this father? He was seeking Jesus, wanting help from Jesus, but needed more faith.`

**Understanding real faith:**

1. Why is faith so important? Eph. 2:8, 9
2. What is faith based upon? Rom. 10:17
3. How did Jesus respond to people who demanded a sign to believe? Mark 8:11, 12
4. Must we see something to believe? John 20:29; Heb. 11:1
5. What is the difference between faith and feeling? Matt. 8:26

`Personal reflection: How do you keep your faith strong when you’re not feeling it?`

**Jesus’ faith:**

1. What do God’s people need in the last days? Rev. 14:12
2. How strong was Jesus’ faith? Matt. 26:36–42

`Personal reflection: What do you base your faith on? What have been the most faith-building experiences or times in your life?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Faith can start out very small but grow over time as we nurture it.
- Faith is necessary for salvation, and it is a choice, not a feeling.
- God’s people in the last days will need a deep level of faith, which can only come from Jesus.