---
title:  Who “Changed” God’s Law?
date:   05/05/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Romans 8:1; Romans 7:15–25; Romans 7:1–14; John 20:19–23; Acts 20:6, 7; Daniel 7:23–25. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “This king will say things against the Most High God. And he will hurt and kill God’s people. He will try to change times and laws that have already been set. The people that belong to God will be in that king’s power for three and one-half years” (Daniel 7:25, ICB). 

The Sabbath and God’s law will have an important part in the last days. But let us be clear about something first. We believe that we are saved by faith alone. So, we know that obeying the law and keeping the Sabbath holy will never save us, right? At the same time, we also know that in the last days obeying God’s law will be a test. When we honor the Sabbath, we will show to everyone on earth that we are loyal to God. So, the Sabbath is very important.

Soon it will become clear to everyone on earth who God’s true followers are. The terrible warning in Revelation 13 and 14 will soon happen. At that time, a strong group of religious leaders and government rulers will join together. They will use their power to force everyone on earth to worship a false god. But God commands His people to worship Him (Revelation 14:7). God made us. So, He wants us to worship only Him. 

This week we will study about God’s law. We will look at the Sabbath and the religious power that tried to change the Sabbath law. We also will study what this “change” to the law means for us in these last days of earth’s history.