---
title:  The Promise
date:   06/05/2018
---

We find one of God’s most beautiful promises to us in Romans 8:1: “So now anyone who is in Christ Jesus is not judged guilty” (ERV). The word “So” tells us that this promise is the answer to the question Paul asked at the end of chapter 7 (read verse 24). That tells us we must study the verses at the end of chapter 7 first. Then we will better understand God’s promise to us in Romans 8:1.

`Read Romans 7:15–25. What is Paul saying to us in these verses? How does the message in these verses make the truth that Paul talks about in Romans 8:1 so comforting?`

Was Paul really talking about himself in these verses? Bible experts have argued over the answer to this question for many hundreds of years. But one thing is clear: Paul is saying that sin is very real. Everyone, including Christians, can understand in some way the fight that Paul talks about here. Who has not felt the desire to do wrong? Who has not given in to sin? We all have! We also know how it feels to not do what we know we should do. For Paul, the law is not the reason why we sin. We sin, Paul says, because of our weak human flesh.

Have you ever found yourself wanting to do what was right, but then you did what was wrong instead? Of course, you have. Again, we all have. Paul may not be talking about the fact that we are going to give in to sin after we become born-again believers in Jesus. But it is clear Paul is talking about the never-ending war against sin that every loyal follower of God must fight.

Next, Paul says these famous words: “What a terrible failure I am! Who will save me from this sin that brings death to my body?” (Romans 7:24, NIrV). The answer to Paul’s question is found in Jesus. The answer also is found in the wonderful promise that “those [people] who belong to Christ [Jesus] will not suffer the punishment of sin” (Romans 8:1, NLV). These believers now live new lives by the power of the Holy Spirit. Yes, believers fight against sin. Yes, sin is real. But by faith in Jesus, believers are no longer judged guilty by the law. They obey the law. The Holy Spirit helps them to live new lives. They no longer live lives full of sin.

`Why is Romans 8:1 such a wonderful promise?`
