---
title:  Did God Really Change the Sabbath to Sunday?
date:   08/05/2018
---

We often hear other Christians say that the law has been thrown out. Or they say that we no longer need to obey the law because we are now under grace. Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. What are these Christians really saying? They really mean we do not have to obey the fourth commandment anymore. There are other Christians who say that the seventh-day Sabbath was changed to Sunday. These Christians believe that the Sabbath was changed to Sunday because Jesus woke up from the dead on Sunday.

The Christians who say the Sabbath was changed to Sunday believe they have the Bible verses to prove it too.

We are going to look at some of these verses in the New Testament. As we read the verses, we need to ask ourselves a couple of questions. Are these verses really talking about a change in the Sabbath day from the seventh day to the first day of the week? Or are these verses simply describing different things in the Bible that happened on Sunday?

`Read John 20:19–23. These verses talk about why Jesus’ followers meet together in an upstairs room. What reason do these verses give for why Jesus’ followers meet together there? Some Christians say that Jesus’ followers met in that upstairs room to worship Jesus on Sunday because He woke up from the dead on that day. What do these verses say about that?`

`Read Acts 20:6, 7. What, if anything, in these verses shows that the Sabbath was changed to Sunday, the first day of the week? Read also Acts 2:46 to answer the question.`

`Read 1 Corinthians 16:1–4. We learn from these verses that Jesus’ followers collected money at home for God’s people on the first day of the week. But what, if anything at all, do they teach us about any change to the Sabbath from Saturday to Sunday?`

Not one verse we looked at shows that the believers met together to worship on the first day of the week. Their reasons for getting together had nothing to do with a change in the Sabbath. Christians who say these verses prove that the Sabbath was changed to Sunday are making these verses say something they never meant to say.
