---
title:  The Seventh Day in the New Testament
date:   09/05/2018
---

Yesterday, we looked at the verses used by many Christians to prove the idea that the Sabbath was changed to Sunday. We learned that those verses do not prove this idea at all. But what do we learn about the seventh-day Sabbath in the New Testament? In every verse about the Sabbath, we see that God’s people kept the Sabbath holy.

`Read Luke 4:14–16 and Luke 23:55, 56. What do these verses tell us about the seventh-day Sabbath before Jesus’ death and after it?`

Luke talks about the women who followed Jesus. Look at what Luke says these women did. “On the Sabbath day they rested, as commanded in the Law of Moses” (Luke 23:56, ERV). Clearly, this verse talks about the fourth commandment of God’s law that He wrote in stone at Sinai. Now, what if Jesus really changed the Sabbath? Then why would these women be resting on it? The answer is clear. These women rested on the Sabbath because Jesus never taught them that they should stop keeping it after He died. Jesus told His followers, “ ‘If you love me, you will do what I command’ ” (John 14:15, ERV). Jesus’ commands include the seventh-day Sabbath. Jesus honored this command Himself. Did Jesus really replace the Sabbath with Sunday? If yes, then why did these women know nothing about it?

`Read Acts 13:14, 42–44 and Acts 16:12, 13. What proof do these verses give us for keeping the seventh-day Sabbath holy? What proof do they give us for keeping Sunday?`

We do not find any proof in these verses that the Sabbath was changed to Sunday. But, these verses show us clearly that the first believers in Jesus kept the seventh-day holy.

Acts 16:13 is interesting because it does not happen in a synagogue. A synagogue is a Jewish place of worship or “church.” The believers met by a river instead. Some Christians often went to the river to pray. That happened many years after Jesus died. So, if the Sabbath was changed to Sunday, why does the Bible say nothing about it?

`How can you share the truth about the Sabbath in a gentle and loving way with people who worship on Sunday?`
