---
title:  The Little Horn and the Sabbath
date:   10/05/2018
---

We must obey God’s law. God’s law includes the Sabbath. So, why do so many Christians worship on Sunday?

We must turn to the book of Daniel to answer that question. Daniel 7 talks about four big kingdoms that would rule the earth: Babylon, Media-Persia, Greece, and then Rome. Then another kingdom rises to power during the time that Rome rules the earth. Daniel names this power the little-horn power. Who is the little-horn power? What other power could it be but the Roman Catholic Church? Thomas Hobbes says the same thing. Hobbes was a leading thinker in the 1600s. Hobbes wrote: “Where did the Roman Catholic Church come from and get its power? Any man who thinks about this matter will see easily that the Roman Catholic power is the “ghost” of the dead Roman kingdom.”—Leviathan (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1996), page 463, adapted.

`Read Daniel 7:23–25. What do these verses teach us that can help us understand how Sunday worship got started?`

Daniel 7:25 shows us that the little-horn power tried to change God’s law. We do not know exactly how that happened. We do know that the Roman Catholic Church changed the seventh-day Sabbath to Sunday. Today, most Christians worship on the first day of the week. They do not follow the Bible’s command to honor the seventh day.

`What same word pictures are found in Revelation 13:1–17 and Daniel 7:1–8? How do these word pictures help us understand what will happen in the last days?`

Revelation uses the same word pictures about the little-horn power we find in Daniel. These word pictures show the Roman Catholic Church’s attacks on God’s people that will happen in the last days. The Bible warns us that in the last days of Earth’s history the Roman Church will attack anyone who refuses to “worship” on Sunday.

`Revelation 14:7 uses words taken from the fourth commandment (Exodus 20:11). How does Revelation 14:6, 7 help to show us that the Sabbath will have a very important part in the last war over worship? This war will happen on this earth before Jesus comes back.`
