---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   11/05/2018
---

The book of Revelation says that Satan acts the same as a dragon. This “dragon” made war against God in heaven (Revelation 12:7 [NLV]). This same dragon makes war with God’s people on Earth. God’s people show they worship God because they “obey the Laws of God” (Revelation 12:17; Revelation 13:2, 4). But the Bible warns us that Satan will be worshiped too (Revelation 13:4). So, we see that Satan’s war against God continues here on Earth. What is the thing that Satan attacks in his war against God? God’s Sabbath.

> <p></p>
> “The fourth commandment shows us that God is the One who made the heavens and the earth. This work makes God different from all false gods. God made the seventh day holy. He gave the holy Sabbath to man as a rest day and to remind man of His work in making the earth. God made the Sabbath to help humans remember the living God. God made the Sabbath to remind humans that He made them and that He is worthy of their worship and love. Satan tries to turn people away from God and from obeying God’s law. So, that is why Satan attacks the fourth commandment. The Sabbath points us to a belief in God as the One who made humans.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], pages 53, 54, adapted.

We worship the Lord because He made the heavens and the earth. The seventh-day Sabbath reminds us of that work (read Genesis 2:1–3). No wonder Satan attacks the Sabbath. After all, the Sabbath shows God’s power.

In the last days of Earth’s history, God will have a people on the earth who stay loyal to Him. God’s people show their strong faith and loyalty to Him by obeying all His laws, including the Sabbath law. The Sabbath reminds us that God is the One who made us. It shows everyone on earth that God alone is worthy of their loyalty and worship.  

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Many Christians say that sin is real. But they also argue that God’s law has been thrown out. What is the problem with this idea? What big mistake can you find with this thinking?`

`2.	What has been your experience with people who say we should keep Sunday instead of the Sabbath? What did you say to them? How did they answer you? How do you answer people who say that keeping the Sabbath holy is another way of trying to save yourself by your own good actions?`
