---
title:  Salvation to Our God and the Lamb
date:  07/02/2019
---

`Read Revelation 14:5 along with 2 Peter 3:14 and Jude 24, 25. Revelation describes God’s end-time people as “without fault.” How is this state achievable?`

The final characteristic of the 144,000 is that “in their mouth was found no guile: for they are without fault before the throne of God” (Rev. 14:5). While the people of the world choose to believe Satan’s lies, God’s end-time people, who are without deceitfulness in speech or conduct, will receive the love of the truth so as to be saved (2 Thess. 2:10, 11).

“Without fault” (Greek *am-omos*, “blameless”) refers to the fidelity of the 144,000 to Christ. In the Bible, God’s people are called to be holy (Lev. 19:2, 1 Pet. 2:9). Abraham (Gen. 17:1) and Job (Job 1:1) were blameless. Christians are called to be holy and without blemish before God (Eph. 5:27, Phil. 2:15).

`Read Romans 3:19–24. Why must we always keep this crucial truth before us?`

In the closing days of this world’s history, the 144,000 will reflect the character of Christ. Their salvation will reflect what Christ has done for them and in them rather than their own holiness and works (see Eph. 2:8–10). The 144,000 have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb (Rev. 7:14) and, as such, are found “spotless and blameless” before God (2 Pet. 3:14, NASB).

“We need to be refined, cleansed from all earthliness, till we reflect the image of our Saviour, and become ‘partakers of the divine nature.’ . . .

“When the conflict of life is ended, when the armor is laid off at the feet of Jesus, when the saints of God are glorified, then and then only will it be safe to claim that we are saved, and sinless.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 3, pp. 355, 356.

`How can we live a life of sanctification in active preparation for eternity and yet not suffer from the pitfalls of perfectionism and fanatical holiness?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When you took the name of Christian you promised in this life to prepare for the higher life in the kingdom of God. To be a Christian means to be Christlike. Not a satanic feature is to remain on mind or body, which are to reveal comeliness, purity, integrity, and dignity. Take the Christlife as your pattern. Keep eternity before your view. Then you will in some degree approach Christ’s appreciation of the heritage which cost Him so much.  

Let those who work for Christ keep their principles pure. Let the life be untainted by any polluting practice. All heaven is interested in the restoration of the moral image of God in man. All heaven is working to this end. God and the holy angels have an intense desire that human beings shall reach the standard of perfection which Christ died to make it possible for them to reach. It is His desire that we shall be one with Christ, complete in Christ, that we shall be heirs of heaven.—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 286.

As the end draws near, the enemy will work with all his power to bring in fanaticism among us. He would rejoice to see Seventh-day Adventists going to such extremes that they would be branded by the world as a body of fanatics. Against this danger I am bidden to warn ministers and lay members. Our work is to teach men and women to build on a true foundation, to plant their feet on a plain “Thus saith the Lord.” . . .

Those who are close students of the Word, following Christ in humility of soul, will not go to extremes. The Saviour never went to extremes, never lost self-control, never violated the laws of good taste. He knew when to speak and when to keep silent. He was always self-possessed. He never erred in His judgment of men or of truth. He was never deceived by appearances. He never raised a question that was not clearly appropriate, never gave an answer that was not right to the point. He silenced the voice of the caviling priests by penetrating beneath the surface and reaching the heart, flashing light into the mind and awakening the conscience.

Those who follow the example of Christ will not be extremists. They will cultivate calmness and self-possession. The peace that was seen in the life of Christ will be seen in their lives.—_Gospel Workers_, pp. 316, 317.

Satan will work his miracles to deceive; he will set up his power as supreme. The church may appear as about to fall, but it does not fall. It remains, while the sinners in Zion will be sifted out—the chaff separated from the precious wheat. This is a terrible ordeal, but nevertheless it must take place. None but those who have been overcoming by the blood of the Lamb and the word of their testimony will be found with the loyal and true, without spot or stain of sin, without guile in their mouths. . . .

The remnant that purify their souls by obeying the truth gather strength from the trying process, exhibiting the beauty of holiness amid the surrounding apostasy. All these, He says, “I have graven . . . upon the palms of my hands” (Isaiah 49:16). They are held in everlasting, imperishable remembrance.—_The Upward Look_, p. 356.
