---
title:  Further Thought
date:  08/02/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Sinlessness and Salvation,” pp. 353–357, in Selected Messages, book 3.

The identity of the 144,000 is a hotly debated issue. What seems evident in Revelation is that the 144,000 are the last generation of God’s people in the closing days of this earth’s history. We know that they will go through the time of trouble and be protected from the seven last plagues (see Ps. 91:7–16) and that their loyalty will be tested like no generation in the past.

Exactly who will be in that group is not revealed to us. Their identity is one of the secrets that God has kept for Himself (Deut. 29:29). Only the future will reveal who will be a part of this group of saved saints. Regarding this mystery, we have been given a warning:

“Christ says that there will be those in the church who will present fables and suppositions, when God has given grand, elevating, ennobling truths which should ever be kept in the treasure house of the mind. When men pick up this theory and that theory, when they are curious to know something it is not necessary for them to know, God is not leading them. It is not His plan that His people shall present something which they have to suppose, which is not taught in the Word. It is not His will that they shall get into controversy over questions which will not help them spiritually, such as, Who is to compose the hundred and forty-four thousand? This those who are the elect of God will in a short time know without question.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, p. 174.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think of the following admonition: “Let us strive with all the power that God has given us to be among the hundred and forty-four thousand.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 970. How can you put these words into practice? How does this striving impact your daily decisions?`

`An important characteristic of the 144,000 end-time saints is the singing of the new song. It is a song that no one else can sing because it is a song of experience—an experience that no other group in history ever had (Rev. 14:3, 4; Rev. 15:2, 3). As you think of your own life, how does your present spiritual walk reflect a song of a fresh experience with God? Or does your life reflect your past stale stories of God’s works in your life, lacking evidence of present commitment? What changes can you make right now to help you recommit your life to Him?`

`What is the difference between just knowing about Christ and truly knowing Him? If someone were to ask you, “What is Christ like?” what would you answer, and why?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, “Blessed Are They Which Are Persecuted for Righteousness’ Sake,” pp. 29–31; 

_Selected Messages_, book 3, “Sinlessness and Salvation,” pp. 353–357.