---
title:  A Little Heaven on Earth
date:   02/10/2016
---

The book of Job begins on a relatively positive note. From a worldly perspective at least, we see a man blessed in every way.

```Read Job 1:1–4. What do the texts reveal about the kind of life that Job lived? What were the positive aspects of Job’s existence?```

Job certainly seems to have it all, including a righteous character. The word translated in Job 1:1 as “blameless” (NIV) comes from a word that can mean “complete” or “full of integrity.” The word for “upright” means “straight,” which can give the idea of walking on a straight path. In short, the book opens with an almost Eden-like scene depicting a wealthy man of faithfulness and integrity who has it all.

Nevertheless, he has it all in a fallen world.

```Read Job 1:5, 6. What do these texts reveal about the reality of the fallen world that Job inhabits?```

“Amid the festivities of his sons and daughters, he trembled lest his children should displease God. As a faithful priest of the household, he offered sacrifices for them individually. He knew the offensive char- acter of sin, and the thought that his children might forget the divine claims, led him to God as an intercessor in their behalf.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 3, p. 1140.

Clearly Job had it good, about as good as it can get here. As Eden- like as the scene is presented—a man with a full life, big family, a great name, and many possessions—it’s still a life lived on a fallen planet steeped in sin, and so, as Job will soon see, it comes with all the dan- gers that existence here brings.
     
```What are the good things in your life right now? How can you learn to be always in an attitude of thankfulness for them?```