---
title:  Answers at the Cross
date:   06/10/2016
---

The book of Job brings up many important issues. But many of these same issues do not get answered there. We need the rest of the Bible. And even then we still “see through a glass, darkly” (1 Cor. 13:12).

As we saw yesterday, for example, the book of Job says nothing about how Satan’s rebellion started. Also, it says nothing about how Satan is ultimately defeated in the great controversy. In fact, despite his major role in all that follows in the book—after appearing only twice in Job (Job 1:6–12, 2:1–7)—Satan does not come into view again. He simply vanishes, even though the destruction that he caused remains. The rest of the book doesn’t even mention him; instead, almost all that follows in the book is about God, not Satan. And that makes sense because, in the end, the book of Job is about God and what He is really like.

Nevertheless, the Bible doesn’t leave us without answers to the ques- tion about the defeat of Satan in the great controversy. And central to that defeat is the death of Jesus on the cross.

```How do the following texts help to explain what Jesus did that will lead to the end of the great controversy? John 12:31, 32; Rev. 12:10–12; Rom. 3:26; Heb. 2:14.```

At the cross, Satan fully was exposed to the universe for what he really is, a murderer. Those who knew Jesus when He reigned in heaven must have been astonished to see Him be so degraded by Satan’s min- ions. That’s the “judgment” on Satan that Jesus talked about in John 12. At the cross, when the Savior died for “the sins of the whole world” (1 John 2:2), only then could Heaven proclaim that salvation has now come. Here and now the divine promise, made before the world began (2 Tim. 1:9), became a reality. Because of His death on our behalf, Christ could be “just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus” (Rom. 3:26, NKJV). That is, at the cross He refuted the devil’s charges that God could not uphold His law (be just) and still, at the same time, save those who have broken that law (the justifier). After Calvary, Satan’s doom was assured.

```How can we learn to rejoice in what Christ has done for us at the cross, even amid the trials we face in the great controversy now?```