---
title:  Picture Perfect
date:  25/08/2018
---

**Introduction**: Acts 16:11–31

When an artist applies the first few strokes of paint to his canvas, to the viewer, it looks a complete mess, but to the artist it’s the beginning of things to come—the beginning of a perfect picture, a picture created with perfection through the cumulative effort of single strokes on a canvas. In his mind, the artist envisions what he wants his masterpiece to look like. Unaware of that vision is the viewer, who judges the picture based on its current “disorganized” state and is confused. Though baffled, the viewer eagerly awaits the picture’s final outcome.

Paul traveled with Silas to Philippi. While they were on their way to a place of prayer (Acts 16:16), both men were confronted by a slave who possessed an evil spirit. This woman made money for her master through fortune-telling. After becoming annoyed by the chatter of this woman, Paul evicted the evil spirit from her body. The slave master became angered by Paul’s actions and had both men arrested and thrown in jail. Like viewers watching an artist at work, the current situation of Paul and Silas looked a complete “mess,” even to them. But instead of taking things into their own hands or doubting God’s plan—they prayed. “And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sang praises unto God” (Acts 16:25).

Not long after, an earthquake struck the prison and all the doors broke open. Terrified that the prisoners had all escaped, the jailer was about to take his own life when Paul intervened. Because of their decision to remain in their cells, they were able to witness and successfully baptize the jailer and his family. We are not always aware of God’s plan for us, but like Paul and Silas we should submit ourselves to God and trust that everything will work out according to His will. In the words of J. S. Park, “God has a vision far greater than my sight.”* Instead of taking the paintbrush from the hands of the Greatest Artist amid uncertainty, pray and sing praises to Him.

When you take the paintbrush from God and try to finish the picture yourself, you mess up His perfect picture—you mess up your life. Allow Him to use you for the advancement of His cause, even if it means your picture looks disorganized at first. It only becomes clearer and more perfect.

_Calisa Joseph, Carnbee, Trinidad and Tobago_