---
title:  Be Not Afraid
date:  26/08/2018
---

**Logos**: Acts 16:1–34; 17:1–15, 22–31; 18:4–17

**Go Where “I” Send You (Acts 16:1–13)**

Paul was not on his first missionary journey, but he had a goal—he wantedto preach to other nations. In order to complete his task accompanied by Silas, they went to Derbe and Lystra. There they met a young disciple named Timothy. Despite his youth he was respected and had a good testimony. In order to avoid theological challenges with the Jews, Paul required Timothy, who was born of a Jewish mother and a Greek father, to be circumcised. Paul pursued his journey, going from place to place edifying the brothers. However, his goal was to get to Asia. The Holy Spirit twice changed his destination and finally led him to Macedonia. As a missionary, Paul understood that he had to trust in the Lord with all his heart, not relying on his own intelligence, and God kept his ways straight (Prov. 3:5, 6). “There is no limit to what God can do with a man who is YIELDED and WILLING to do His will!”

**Lord, Why Did You Send Me to Philippi? (Acts 16:11–34)**

In Philippi Paul had an interesting start to his journey. Along the flowing river, he celebrated the Sabbath (Acts 16:13). “ ‘I am the Lord, the God of all mankind. Is anything too hard for me?’ ” (Jer. 32:27, NIV). Neither the place nor the ambiance prevented God from touching the heart of Lydia. She, as well as her family, got baptized (Acts 16:14, 15). Paul’s mission was not completed in Philippi. While he was going “to the place of prayer” (verse 16, NIV), he met a demon-possessed slave girl. Paul confronted the girl after becoming tired of being hailed by her. He simply stated, “ ‘I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her’ ” (verse 18, NKJV). Her deliverance interrupted the income of her masters. The wickedness of these men led Paul and Silas to jail. Was Paul’s mission finished in Philippi? After a half-night of praises, a miraculous earthquake, and a suicide prevention, Paul baptized the jailer and his family. “ ‘For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways,’ declares the Lord” (Isa. 55:8, NIV). No situation stopped God from executing His perfect plan of salvation for the Philippians.

**I Represent Jesus Despite . . . (Acts 17:1–15)**

Paul was a former Jewish fanatic who used to persecute the first Christians. However, God Himself chose Paul as His vessel to bear His name “before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel” (Acts 9:15). God warned that Paul would suffer for His name’s sake (verse 16). As God had informed him, Paul was persecuted everywhere that he was proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ. In Thessalonica, Paul openly presented Jesus and His plan of salvation. Some accepted the message. However, the opponents created a riot. Despite the challenges in Thessalonica, Paul safely reached Berea, where the believers were more “noble . . . , received the word [of God] with all readiness of mind, and searched the scriptures daily” (Acts 17:11). Sadly, the devil used the Jews from Thessalonica to stir up the people of Berea (verse 13). Paul did not give up on His mission; he continued his trip. In the twenty-first century, God is also looking for young people, as Paul, to proclaim the veritable message.

**To the Unknown God (Acts 17:22–31)**

After the misadventures of Thessalonica and Berea, Paul did not stop preaching. In Athens, Paul’s audience and the place where he had to present God’s message were not common. An Areopagus full of philosophers and Athenians were listening to Paul’s oratory. Is there a limit to God’s message? “There is no limit to what God can do with a man who is YIELDED and WILLING to do His will!”1 Even when men refused to pay attention to Paul in Thessalonica and Berea, God made a way in Athens for the erudite listeners to hear about a God that “giveth to all life, and breath, and all things” (Acts 17:25). Even when some laughed about the content of Paul’s message, God touched the hearts of “certain men” (verse 34).

**I Will Go Unto the Gentiles (Acts 18:4–17)**

Before Jesus departed, He commanded His disciples to be “witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth” (Acts 1:8). After Jesus left, those who proclaimed the gospel were principally opposed by the Jews. While in Corinth, Paul was loudly opposed by the Jews who went up to blaspheme against the gospel. As a result, Paul officially began his ministry to the Gentiles. Who were the Gentiles? They were non-Jewish (non-Hebrew, non-Israelite) person(s) or peoples.2 It is important to note that antagonism against the Gentiles was present far more in New Testament times than in Old Testament times.3 However, even when the Jews refused the message of salvation, God sent His messenger for those who were not Israelites—to the uttermost part of the earth. The gospel was also available for the Gentiles, this is comforting news for all of us who are not born Jews but believe that Jesus can save us. Despite the challenges in the proclamation of the message of salvation, Paul was reassured to “be not afraid” (Acts 18:9). Dear young missionary, “be not afraid” of the challenges when you face persecution because God is with you. The devil that seeks to oppress you knows that his end is at hand.

**React**

`In what ways can you be persecuted in the twenty-first century?`

_Nahomie Daube, Sainte-Anne, Guadeloupe_