---
title:  How Can I Turn My World Upside Down?
date:  27/08/2018
---

**Testimony**: Acts 17:1–6

As Seventh-day Adventist Christians, our passion for the gospel should stem from a desire to save souls, not from selfish ambition, for in the face of adversity, discouragement would hinder our progress.

“Those who today teach unpopular truths need not be discouraged if at times they meet with no more favorable reception, even from those who claim to be Christians, than did Paul and his fellow workers from the people among whom they labored. The messengers of the cross must arm themselves with watchfulness and prayer, and move forward with faith and courage, working always in the name of Jesus. They must exalt Christ as man’s mediator in the heavenly sanctuary, the One in whom all the sacrifices of the Old Testament dispensation centered, and through whose atoning sacrifice the transgressors of God’s law may find peace and pardon.”1

**Our passion for the gospel should stem from a desire to save souls, not from selfish ambition.**

The work of Paul and Silas demonstrates to us what the gospel commission is all about. They were considered men who turned their world upside down for the glory of God. Their episodes in the book of Acts teach us that transformation of our environment starts with the Word of God bearing fruit in us. “The mere reading of the Word will not accomplish the result designed of Heaven; it must be studied, and cherished in the heart. The knowledge of God is not gained without mental effort. We should diligently study the Bible, asking God for the aid of the Holy Spirit, that we may understand His Word. We should take one verse, and concentrate the mind on the task of ascertaining the thought which God has put in that verse for us. We should dwell on the thought till it becomes our own, and we know ‘what saith the Lord.’ ”2

**React**

`1. In addition to Bible study, what other factors are critical in our calling to witness to those within our circle of influence?`

`2. In light of the increased attacks by government authorities on religious sects, what do the experiences of Paul and Silas teach us about facing tribulation?`

`3. How can we use the technological advancements of this age to turn our world upside down?`

_Shalon Kerr, Maracas, Trinidad and Tobago_