---
title:  The Second Missionary Journey
date:  28/08/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 18:9, 10

After Paul’s conversion, he and his friend Barnabas were spreading the gospel in several different places. After the two friends went to evangelize at a church in Antioch, they decided to separate from each other because Paul did not want Mark, Barnabas’s cousin, to come with them on their second missionary journey. Paul’s reason for not letting Mark come with them is that he deserted them in their first missionary journey to Pamphylia.

Paul took a man named Silas to Athens, Berea, and Thessalonica, where the good news was spread and heard. The separation between Paul and Barnabas was sad, indeed, but it was also beneficial because they spread the gospel in wider regions than the area they originally planned together to preach in. The Great Commission was intended to let all parts of the world know about who Jesus is and what He has done.

According to Joseph Bates, “The uncompromising advocate for present truth, which feeds and nourishes the little flock in whatever country or place, is the restorer of all things.”* What Bates states is that the world needs to hear the gospel of Jesus. Jesus is Truth, and He has the answers for us to obtain salvation.

Many of God’s prophets and disciples experienced a change in their lives when they met Jesus. The change could have been losing lifelong friends or family members, even switching to Christianity after giving up the religions they had known all their lives. “ ‘Do not be afraid; keep on speaking, do not be silent. For I am with you, and no one is going to attack and harm you, because I have many people in this city’ ” (Acts 18:9, 10, NIV).

This memory text summarizes the fact that God will be there for us in our darkest times, and He’ll protect us from harm and danger. If we do what He asks us to do, He is willing and able to deliver and shelter us from evil.

**React**

`1. Has God worked in advancement, despite the frailties you have or had? If so, how?`

`2. Can we learn a biblical lesson from our frailties, no matter how bad they might be?`

_Kent Earl Taylor III, Coral Springs, Florida, USA_