---
title:  Past Failure to Preaching Faith
date:  29/08/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 16:9, 10; 18:9, 10

“All have sinned, and come short of the glory of God” (Rom. 3:23). It does not get any simpler or clearer than that. We know from reading diverse Bible stories that once sin entered the world in Eden, our forefathers did not have glamorous or spotless lives. They all had their share of struggles and failures. But, in spite of our sins, Jesus came and died for us; and because we are heirs of His kingdom, He wants us to participate in this Great Commission and tell others about Him.

Jesus did not call the ones without past failures or shortcomings to preach the gospel, because He is the only perfect Being to have lived on earth. He simply calls us for a mission and will equip us with the necessary tools. How can we be ready for this mission? Below are a few tips:

Recognize His voice and repent of all sins. Just like Saul heard the voice of God at Damascus and immediately recognized Him (Acts 9:5), we ought to recognize God’s voice. In order for us to really help in the advancement of God’s work, we need to be able to know when He is speaking to us. Had Saul not recognized the voice of God and repented from all sins, he would not have been one of the greatest evangelists the world has ever known.

Completely surrender. Through prayer and a devotion-driven life, we can completely surrender our lives to Christ, and the Holy Spirit will direct our paths. To truly surrender to God, we need to know what His teachings are, and to do that, we need to study His Word daily. Jesus said, “If any man will come after me, let him deny himself” (Matt. 16:24).

Be obedient, patient, and faithful. Moses had to spend 40 years preparing for his mission. He was patient, obedient, and faithful. “Without faith it is impossible to please God” (Heb. 11:6, NIV). If we look at the different stories in the Bible, we see how obedience, faith, and patience are imminent to the advancement of God’s cause. It was obedience that took Paul to Macedonia (Acts 16:9, 10).

Always remember who you serve. Know that you “wrestle not against flesh and blood” (Eph. 6:12), when it comes to preaching the gospel of God. But, “ ‘do not be afraid; keep on speaking, do not be silent. For I am with you.’ ” (Acts 18:9, 10, NIV).

**React**

`1. Why is it important to remember that God can use you regardless of your shortcomings?`

`2. What can you do now to ensure that you are ready for this great mission?`

_Christelle Bruno, Miami, Florida, USA_