---
title:  Just Stand!
date:  30/08/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 16:11–34; 18:4–17

As Seventh-day Adventist Christians and followers of Christ, we have a responsibility to witness to and teach others. The church has been empowered by God to educate and baptize masses into truth. As individuals living within society in its state today, we may have difficulty in speaking out and standing for our principles and values. Are we afraid of being judged by others and ostracized for our beliefs? In various countries, their states have removed religion from education systems, government agencies, and the public, making it illegal to display and express religious beliefs in any public function, classroom, and/ or workplace. Policies such as these directly assault Christianity and are part of Satan’s plan to inhibit people from learning the truth about God.

Paul testified to the Jews that Jesus was the Messiah; they rejected him and blasphemed against God. God had to encourage and reassure Paul in Acts 18:9, 10, “Be not afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace, for I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee: for I have much people in this city.” These same words can apply to us today. We must not be afraid to speak out against any action by church, government, employers, family, or friends that is not in accordance with the teachings and values of Christ.

Oftentimes we will be placed in positions where our beliefs are going to make us unpopular with the masses. In your country, Christians may not be physically beaten (yet) for their beliefs.We are going to be viewed as strange and weird and be teased by our peers for our beliefs, and one day we will be persecuted for them. Just stand and continue praising God. Standing for Jesus is not a one-off occasion, it’s a daily, conscientious effort. Even after Paul and Silas were imprisoned they sang praises to God. God used an earthquake to open the prison and free everyone, but Paul and Silas got everyone to remain.

Human nature would have been to flee, but God strengthened Paul and Silas to remain honest by staying put. In return they saved and baptized the jail keeper and his family. That same strength is available today to help you stand.

**React**

`What are your experiences of standing up for God? How can you encourage each other to stand up for God?`

_Jarren Joseph, Carnbee, Trinidad and Tobago_