---
title:  True to the Cause
date:  31/08/2018
---

**Exploration**: 1 Pet. 4:16

**Conclude**

Paul and Silas used the most outrageous of situations to minister to others and share God’s truth, in a prison cell, nonetheless. As Seventh-day Adventist Christians in this day and age, we should endeavor to accept our call to go into all the world and teach all nations (Matt. 28:19). Though we may not always understand God’s plans, we can rest assured He is able to continue the good work He has started in our lives. At all times we should aspire to have faith that is so deeply rooted in God’s love that in the persecution we face, we will not waver in our decision to represent what we believe.

**Consider**

- Making a list of ways Christian youth are persecuted in our era and match them to Bible texts that can comfort you when facing oppression. How does each Bible text relate to your obstacle? How do these scriptures help you find solace?

- Using social media to share with others what you learned from this week’s lesson. Encourage your peers to stand up for God and trust His ultimate plans.

- Listening to the following hymns from The Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal: “Lord I Want to Be a Christian” (no. 319) and “Stand Up! Stand Up for Jesus!” (no. 618). How do these hymns apply to the lesson?

- Brainstorming ways you can use your talents to tell others about God’s love. Pray and ask God to help you to utilize your abilities to further His mission and develop yourself spiritually.

- Organizing an outreach program along with the youth ministry of your local church. Share how one can stand up for Jesus in your community like Paul and Silas did.

- Starting a prayer calendar. Pray for something specific each day that can strengthen your relationship with God and help you to be a better Christian. Keep track of what you pray for to evaluate your spiritual growth in the future.

**Connect**

Matthew 28:18–20; Acts 16:14–40.

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 20, “Exalting the Cross”; chapter 21, “In the Regions Beyond”; Sketches From the Life of Paul, chapter 7, “Imprisonment of Paul and Silas.”

_Sabilla Luke, St. Joseph, Commonwealth of Dominica_