---
title:  Worship God Who Made Heaven and Earth
date:   19/05/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Revelation 14:6, 7; Matthew 24:14; Galatians 3:22; Luke 23:32–43; Revelation 14:8–12.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Then I saw another angel flying in the heavens. He was carrying the Good News that lasts [continues] forever. He was preaching to every nation and to every family group and to the people of every language and to all the people of the earth” (Revelation 14:6, NLV).

As Seventh-day Adventist Christians, we believe in “present truth.” Present truth is the Bible teaching that God shows truth to humans when they need it the most. Then, over time, God adds more light to the truth He gave us (2 Peter 1:12). An example of how present truth works can be seen in the first promise about the Good News (Genesis 3:15). God gave this promise to Adam and Eve after they sinned. God told them that the Savior would be born to one of Eve’s future children. God’s promise to Abraham in Genesis 18:18 shows us even more truth about the first promise God made to Adam and Eve. Then Jesus came. He was the Savior that God promised He would send. The coming of Jesus to this earth shows us even more truth about the promise of the Good News (Mark 10:45).

Today, we believe that the three angels’ messages in Revelation 14:6–12 are “present truth.” They are the truth that everyone living in these last days needs right now.

This week we will look at the first angel’s message. This message holds important truths for everyone who wants to stay loyal to God in the difficult times ahead.
