---
title:  Good News for Everyone
date:   20/05/2018
---

`Read Revelation 14:6; Matthew 24:14; and Matthew 28:19. Each of these verses talks about the same idea. What idea is that? How do these verses help us understand how important it is for the church to reach out to other people and to witness to them about Jesus?`

We could say that the first angel’s message is the same as Jesus’ command to us in Matthew 28:19. The first angel’s message is “present truth” for our time. As we learned yesterday, present truth is the truth we need most.

Do you see how all three verses in the question above say that we need to reach out to everyone with this message? Everyone includes “every nation” and “every family group” and “the people of every language” and “all the people of the earth” (Revelation 14:6, NLV). Everyone needs to hear this message because its truths are meant for everyone.

`Read Galatians 3:22. What does this verse say that helps us understand why everyone living on this earth needs to hear the Good News?`

Sin is everywhere. That fact explains why our work for God includes sharing the Good News with everyone. Everyone on earth has done wrong. Everyone has broken God’s law. The Bible shows us that everyone “is bound [put in prison] by sin” (Galatians 3:22, ICB). Adam’s sin in Eden changed every human. No person has been able to escape the awful things that happened because of Adam’s sin. We all must live with the bad things that happened and continue to happen because of sin. With no one to save us, we would suffer punishment for sin. This punishment is everlasting death.

But Someone did save us. That Someone is Jesus. He is the only answer to the sin problem. All people need to know about the amazing gift of hope that God offers to them in Jesus. That is why Seventh-day Adventists have gone all over the earth to share the Good News. They want to tell everyone about Jesus and the things He has done for them.

`Why is our sharing the Good News with other people very helpful to our spiritual lives? Why is our reaching out to other people one of the best ways for us to get ready for Jesus to come back?`
