---
title:  The Thief on the Cross and the Good News
date:   21/05/2018
---

What message must God’s people share with everyone on earth? It is the “Good News that lasts forever” (Revelation 14:6, NLV). This news is hope for all people living on an earth that offers them no hope at all beyond this life.

`Read Luke 23:32–43. How does this story about the thief show us the hope that the “Good News” (Revelation 14:6, NLV) gives to all sinners?`

Ellen G. White wrote about the thief on the cross. The thief was a criminal. But his heart was not fully cold and hard. The thief had been living a life of sin to “try to shut out from his heart a belief in Jesus. The thief fell deeper and deeper into sin. Then he was arrested and put on trial. He was found guilty and sent to die on the cross.” — Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 749; adapted.

But what happened to the thief? As he hung on the cross, the thief saw who Jesus really was. The thief cried out: “ ‘Jesus, remember me when you begin ruling as king!’ ” (Luke 23:42, ERV).

How did Jesus answer? Did Jesus say, “Well, friend, I would like to help you. But you really should not have shut Me out of your heart by falling deeper and deeper into sin”? Or did Jesus preach to the thief one of His earlier sermons: “ ‘If you are not more pleasing to God than they [the teachers of the law and religious leaders] are, you will never enter God’s kingdom’ ” (Matthew 5:20, ERV)? Did Jesus bring up the thief’s past mistakes?

No! Instead, Jesus turned to this criminal who had lived a life of sin. The thief was far from holy. He had nothing to offer Jesus. Earlier, the thief even cursed Jesus to His face (Matthew 27:44). But Jesus saw the thief as a new man. Jesus said to him: I am telling you, right now, that your sin, your crimes, your mistakes are forgiven. So, I tell you, today, that one day: “ ‘you will be with Me in Paradise [heaven]’ ” (Luke 23:43, NLV).

Jesus’ message to the thief is the Good News that continues forever. This Good News is the first angel’s message. It is the center of everything we teach. What good are our teachings without the Good News that Jesus saves us?

`What hope does the story about the thief give you?`
