---
title:  Honor God and Give Glory to Him
date:   22/05/2018
---

The first angel’s message begins with an announcement to everyone on the earth about “the Good News” in Revelation 14:6 (NLV). We learn more about this Good News in verse 7. God gave Seventh-day Adventists the job of announcing this message to everyone on the earth. As part of that job, we must share the truths in verse 7. These truths are the Good News for this time. Revelation 14:7 is “present truth” for the last days. We learned that present truth is the truth we need most for the time we live in.

`Read Revelation 14:7. What does it mean in this verse to “fear God” (ERV) and to “give him glory” (NIrV)? How do we do that? What is the connection between these ideas and the “Good News” in Revelation 14:6, NLV?`

We will look at what the Bible means by the wording “fear God.” But first, notice that the command to “fear God” is connected to the command to “give him glory.” If we truly “fear God” in the way that the Bible means, we will give Him glory. One action should lead to the other action.

`Read Genesis 22:12; Exodus 20:20; Job 1:9; Ecclesiastes 12:13; and Matthew 5:16. How do these verses help us understand what it means to “fear God”? How do these verses teach us that our fearing God is connected to our giving Him glory?`

In these verses, the command to “fear God” is connected to obeying Him. When we obey God and do right, we bring glory to Him. Many people say that to fear God means to respect God and worship Him. That is true. But the true meaning of “fear God” goes deeper than even respect and worship. It points to the truth that we are born sinners. We have done evil. Our evil actions make us worthy of death in the eyes of a fair and holy God. Our knowing this awful truth about ourselves is what it means to “fear God.” It is this fear that sends us to the Cross for forgiveness. It is this fear that leads us to accept God’s power to cleanse us from evil. It is this fear that helps us know that, with no Cross, we would lose our souls (read Matthew 10:28).

`How have you experienced what it means to truly fear God?`
