---
title:  The Time has Come for God to Judge All People
date:   23/05/2018
---

The first angel’s message connects the ideas about fearing God and giving Him glory to the Bible teaching that God will judge all people (Revelation 14:7). The Bible is very clear that God is a God of justice. One day the fairness and justice that are so often missing from this life will come when God judges all people.

No wonder people need to fear God.

That is why the “Good News that lasts [continues] forever” (Revelation 14:6, NLV) includes the truth that God will judge all people. What is the connection between the Good News and the truth that God will judge all people at the end of time? We are all sinners who are worthy of death on the day when God will judge all people. But the Good News is that we will not suffer the punishment for our sin and for breaking God’s law. Instead, it will be the same for us as it was for the thief on the cross (Luke 23:32–43).

`Read Matthew 12:36; Ecclesiastes 12:14; Romans 2:6; and 1 Corinthians 4:5. After you read these verses, ask yourself this question: Can my own good actions and good works save me during the time when God judges all people?`

God knows how many hairs are on our heads. This same God will judge all people who have ever lived. But that is exactly why the Good News that continues forever is wonderful news. Yes, we all will be judged. But there is no punishment for the loyal followers of Jesus. God has made them clean from all sin. They have been made holy and right with God in the name of the Lord Jesus (read 1 Corinthians 6:11). Jesus’ obedience is their obedience. It is His obedience that frees them when God judges all people.

“Man stands guilty before God. But Jesus stands between God and man. Jesus tells God the Father that many souls have turned away from their sins. By faith they have given their souls to Jesus. Jesus asks God to have mercy on them. Satan accuses them of wrongdoing and guilt. But Jesus clears these souls of all blame by pointing to what He did for sinners on the Cross. Jesus’ obedience cost Him His life. But His victory gave Him all power on heaven and earth. So, Jesus asks His Father to show mercy to sinners who turned to Him.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [special messages] for the Church, volume 5, page 471; adapted.
