---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   25/05/2018
---

For a long time, Bible students have noticed a connection between the command to wor- ship God in Revelation 14:7 and the fourth commandment in Exodus 20:11 to keep the Sabbath holy. Let us look at the two verses more closely to see how they are the same. Revelation 14:7 says: “ ‘Worship Him Who made heaven and earth and the sea and the places where water comes out of the earth’ ” (NLV). Now look at Exodus 20:11: “ ‘In six days the Lord made the heavens, the earth, the sea and everything in them’ ” (NIrV). Many things in the two verses are the same. But there is one change to the verse in Revelation. What is it? That change points to the Lord as the One “ ‘Who made . . . the places where water comes out of the earth.’ ”

Why would John include this change when he wrote Revelation? Writer John Baldwin asks the same question: “The list of things that God made in Revelation 14:7 agrees with the one in Exodus 20:11 until it gets to the part about the water coming out of the earth. Why does the angel in Revelation 14:7 mention ‘ “the places where water comes out of the earth” ’ and not trees, birds, or mountains?

“We must remember that John is talking about the time when God will judge all people. Maybe God uses the wording ‘ “the places where water comes out of the earth” ’ to remind readers of the time when God judged the earth by a Flood of waters. The Genesis Flood shows us that God is a Judge. But it also shows us that God is also a God of mercy and love. Maybe God is using the wording ‘ “the places where water comes out of the earth” ’ to encourage readers of Revelation to think carefully about the last-day message that God will judge all the people on the earth.” —John Baldwin, editor, Creation [God’s act of making the heavens and earth in six days], Catastrophe [total ruin], and Calvary [Jesus’ death on the cross]: Why a Global [worldwide] Flood Is Vital [important] to the Doctrine [teaching] of [about] Atonement [God’s work to cleanse His people and make them right with Himself] (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald® Publishing Association, 2000), page 27; adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. The sin problem is very big. But why is God’s answer to it more than enough to solve it?`

`2. What other lessons can we learn from the story about the thief on the cross? How does that story show us the power of the Cross to change our lives?`
