---
title:  Israel In Egypt
date:  18/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 46; Genesis 47; Genesis 48; Genesis 49:1–26; Genesis 49:29–50:21.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Israel stayed in Egypt. He lived in the land of Goshen. His family grew and became very large. They became landowners there and did very well’ ” (Genesis 47:27, ERV).

THE BOOK OF GENESIS shows us the final years of Jacob with Joseph in Egypt (Genesis 47). He will die there (Genesis 49:29–50:21). Even so, we see that the hope of the Promised Land is an important part of the story.

When Jacob gets to Egypt, he blesses Pharaoh (Genesis 47:7–10). This blessing helps us remember the promise that God made to Abraham. God promised Abraham that his future children will be a blessing to the people on this earth. Later, before he dies, Jacob blesses the sons of Joseph (Genesis 48). Jacob also blesses his own sons (Genesis 49:1–28). Jacob tells his sons what will happen to their family groups in the future (Genesis 49:1–27).

The children of Israel live in Egypt as strangers. When Genesis ends, they are still there. But the words of the dying Joseph show us the hope of the Promised Land: “When Joseph was near death, he said to his brothers, ‘My time to die is almost here. But I know that God will take care of you and lead you out of this country. God will lead you to the land he promised to give Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob’ ” (Genesis 50:24, ERV).