---
title:  Jacob Travels To Joseph 
date:  19/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story in Genesis 46 about Jacob leaving Canaan. What important Bible truths does this story show us?`

When Jacob leaves Canaan, he is filled with hope. He will no longer be hungry. Better than that, Joseph, his son, is alive! For sure, this good news fills Jacob with the strength he needs to leave the Promised Land.

This story helps us remember the experience of Abraham. Abraham headed to the Promised Land. Jacob is heading away from it. But we see in both stories the same promise from God. God will give Jacob many future children. These children will become a mighty people (Genesis 46:3; compare with Genesis 12:2). Also, God tells Jacob “ ‘Do not fear’ ” (Genesis 46:3, KJV). God said the same thing to Abraham (Genesis 15:1). Then God makes both men a promise about future glory.

Next, we read a list of all the names of the children of Israel who went to Egypt, including his daughters (Genesis 46:7). This list helps us remember the promise God made to Abraham to give him many children. The number of the children of Israel is 70. This number also includes Joseph and his two sons. The number 70 in the Bible shows us that something is complete or total. So, all Israel goes to Egypt. The number 70 also helps us remember the 70 family groups in Genesis 10. This connection helps us see that the future of all people depends on the journey of Jacob to Egypt. Later, we will see this idea when Jesus dies on the cross for all people everywhere.

This idea helps us to see that the stories in Genesis are more than interesting stories. They are written down to show us important spiritual truths. They are part of the history of the plan of God to save us. And not only us. But as many people as possible on this planet.

“The Jews and other people are alike. The same Lord is Lord of all people. He richly blesses all who call out to him. The holy writings say, ‘Everyone who calls out to the Lord will be saved’ ” (Romans 10:12, 13, WE). How do the words of Paul show us that the Good News about Jesus is for everyone? More important, what should we do as a church to share the Good News with other people?