---
title:  Jacob Settles In Egypt 
date:  20/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God gives Jacob dreams (Genesis 46:2). In the dreams, the Lord commands Jacob to leave the Promised Land for Egypt. Later, Egypt will become a word picture for the one place on earth that the people of God do not want to go to (Deuteronomy 17:16).

`Read the story in Genesis 47. What spiritual rules and Bible truths do we find in this story?`

“Joseph brings five of his brothers to visit Pharoah, king of Egypt. Pharaoh will give the brothers land for their future home. Pharaoh is happy to give the brothers of Joseph important jobs in his government if they wish. But Joseph is loyal to God. So, he wants to protect his brothers from life at the palace of Pharoah. There are many things there that can lead a person to sin. So, Joseph tells his brothers to tell Pharaoh what they do for a living. The brothers of Joseph obey his advice. They also are careful to say that they are only visiting Egypt. They do not plan to live there forever. That way, they can leave anytime they choose. The king gives the men a home in the country of Goshen. This land is the best part of Egypt.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 233, adapted.

Pharaoh asks the brothers what they do for a living (Genesis 47:3). Pharaoh is also interested in giving them work to do. He suggests that the brothers may serve him as the chief shepherds of his own flocks (Genesis 47:6).

`Then Jacob stands in front of Pharaoh. Pharaoh is a very powerful man. Jacob is a stranger in the land of Egypt. But Jacob blesses the leader of Egypt anyway (Genesis 47:7). Why does that happen?`

Genesis 47:7 gives us a hint: “Then Joseph brought his father Jacob to Pharaoh. The verb “brought” is “ ‘amad lifney” in the Hebrew language. In the Bible, this verb is used to show us priests, or religious leaders. When we remember that Pharaoh is also a chief priest in Egypt, then we start to understand why Jacob blesses Pharaoh. As a priest of God, Jacob stands high above the most important high priest in Egypt and above Pharaoh himself.

`We “are priests to your king. You are a holy nation. You are God’s very own people” (1 Peter 2:9. WE). Why must we always remember this important Bible truth?`