---
title:  Jacob Blesses The Sons Of Joseph 
date:  21/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jacob will die soon. At this time, he remembers his trip to Bethel (Genesis 35:1–15). There, God gives Jacob the promise again of Canaan. This land will belong to Jacob and his future children forever (Genesis 17:8). The hope of the Promised Land comforts Jacob. Then Jacob blesses the two sons of Joseph.

`Read the story in Genesis 48. Why does Jacob bless the two sons of Joseph in this story and not his other grandsons?`

Manasseh and Ephraim are the only grandsons that Jacob blesses. This blessing changes them from grandsons to sons of Jacob (Genesis 48:5). Manasseh was born first and Ephraim second. The blessing of Jacob shows that the family group of Ephraim will be stronger than the family group of Manasseh. At the same time, we see that the blessing is really about Joseph (Genesis 48:15).

The blessing shows that God keeps His promises to His people. He kept them in the past. He will keep them in the future. Jacob talks about the God of Abraham and Isaac (Genesis 48:15). God gave them food and protected them. This same God saved Jacob out of all his troubles (Genesis 48:16). Jacob also remembers at this time his fight at night with the God of Bethel (Genesis 31:13; Genesis 32:29). There, God changed the name of Jacob to Israel (Genesis 32:26–29).

All these experiences show us how God turns evil into good. Jacob shows his hope that God wlll take care of his grandsons, just as He took care of Jacob and Joseph in the past. Jacob also thinks about the future when his future children will go back to Canaan. This thought gives him hope. We see his hope when Jacob talks about Shechem (Genesis 48:22). Shechem is special in the history of Israel. Jacob bought land there (Genesis 33:19). The bones of Joseph also will be buried there (Joshua 24:32). Later, the Promised Land will be divided at Shechem and given to the family groups of Israel (Joshua 24:1).

`Read Acts 3:25, 26. As we see from these verses, how does Peter show that God keeps the promise He made in Genesis 12:3? How have we also gotten this blessing?`