---
title:  Jacob Blesses His Sons 
date:  22/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read about the blessings in Genesis 49:1–28. Why does Jacob bless his sons? What spiritual truth do these blessings show us?`

The blessings show the future history of the 12 family groups of Israel. At the same time, the blessings also are about the hope of Jacob in the coming Savior. We see this hope in the first words of Jacob: “in the future” (Genesis 49:1, ERV) or “in days to come” (Genesis 49:1, NIrV). These words show us that Jacob is talking about the coming of the promised Savior-King (Isaiah 2:2; Daniel 10:14).

Then Jacob talks about the experiences of the future family group of each of his sons. These experiences show us the personality of each son and what their future children will do. God knows what we will do before we do it. That knowledge is not the same thing as His making us do it.

`Read Genesis 49:8–12. What special message about the future do we see in these verses? Why is this message so important?`

God knows the future. So, God arranged for the future Savior to be born from the family line of Judah (Genesis 49:8–12). Judah is shown by a lion (Genesis 49:9). This lion is a word picture for royalty and praise. King David will come from the family line of Judah. Shiloh will come from this line, too. Shiloh is the One who will bring “shalom,” or peace (Isaiah 9:6, 7). The people shall obey Him (Genesis 49:10).

For a long time, the Jews have believed that this special message shows the coming Savior. Christians believe that this special message shows us Jesus. When He comes, “many people will obey and serve him” (Genesis 49:10, ERV). This special message helps us see this New Testament promise: “Every person will bow down to honor the name of Jesus” (Philippians 2:10, ERV).

As Ellen G. White writes: “The lion is the king of the forest. So, he is an excellent word picture for the family group of Judah. David came from this family line. The Son of David is Shiloh. Shiloh is the real Lion of the family group of Judah. All people shall bow down to Him in the end. Everyone will worship Him.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 236, adapted.