---
title:  Hoping For The Promised Land 
date:  23/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What important ideas about hope do we see at the end of Genesis? For the answer, read Genesis 49:29–50:21.`

The end of Genesis has three parts. Each of these three parts fills us with hope.

First, we see the hope that the children of Israel will go back to the Promised Land someday. The deaths of Jacob and Joseph help us remember the Promised Land. When Jacob finishes blessing his sons (Genesis 49:28), Jacob commands his sons to bury him in Canaan. Jacob wants to be buried in the cave of Machpelah. There, Sarah is buried (Genesis 49:29–31). So, the sons of Jacob travel to Canaan to bury Jacob. This story shows us the time when Israel will leave Egypt several hundreds of years later.

Second, we see the hope that God will turn evil into good. After Jacob dies and is buried, the brothers of Joseph are worried about their future. They are afraid that Joseph will now try to get back at them for the wrong they did to him. The brothers come to Joseph. They bow down in front of him. They are ready to be his servants (Genesis 50:18). Their bowing to Joseph helps us remember again the dreams of Joseph. Joseph tells his brothers not to be afraid (Genesis 50:19). Yes, the brothers of Joseph did evil to him. But God let the evil happen and brought something good from it (Genesis 50:20; read also Genesis 50:19–21; compare with Genesis 45:5, 7–9). That is, God is always in control of everything that happens. None of our mistakes can stop His plans.

The third hope we see is that God will save sinners who turn to Him. The story about the death of Joseph shows us this Bible truth. Joseph does not command his people to bury his bones in Egypt. He tells his people to remember the time when God will lead them out of Egypt. Joseph says, “ ‘Promise me that you will carry my bones with you when God leads you out of Egypt’ ” (Genesis 50:25, ERV). Hundreds of years later, the Israelites keep their promise to Joseph (Exodus 13:19). They carry his bones to Canaan. Canaan is a word picture for our biggest hope of all: the New Jerusalem on a new earth.

`Read Revelation 21:1–4. How do these verses show us the biggest and best hope that we have? What hope do we have without this promise?`