---
title:  Further Thought
date:  24/06/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Joseph and His Brothers,” in Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 233–240.

“The life of Joseph shows us the life of Jesus Christ. The brothers of Joseph are jealous of Joseph. So, they sell him as a slave. They hope to stop him from becoming more important than they are. When Joseph is carried to Egypt, the brothers feel that his dreams will not trouble them anymore. They believe they have stopped his dreams from ever happening. But God is in control. He causes the very thing to happen that the brothers of Joseph try to stop. In the same way, the Jewish priests, or religious leaders, were jealous of Jesus. They fear that Jesus will turn the attention of the people away from them to Himself. So, they kill Jesus to stop Him from becoming king. But they end up causing the very thing they did not want to happen.

“In Egypt, Joseph becomes a savior to the family of his father. But this surprising news does not remove the guilt of his brothers. In the same way, the enemies of Jesus put Him to death. But the death of Jesus made Him the Savior of all humans. He is the King of the whole earth. But this Bible truth does not remove the guilt of his killers or make their crime right.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 239, 240, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`When Jacob died, the brothers of Joseph fear that Joseph will punish them for the wrong they did to him in the past. What does this story teach us about the guilt they continued to feel? How does Joseph answer his brothers when they come to him with their fears? What does the answer of Joseph teach us about why we need to forgive the guilty?`

`What other connections do you see between the life of Joseph and Jesus?`

`Think some more about this idea: God knows the future. At the same time, we are free to make the choices we wish to make. How do we understand these two different ideas? That is, can both of these ideas be correct at the same time? Explain.`