---
title:  Further Thought
date:  19/09/2025
---

Carefully read Ellen G. White, “Idolatry at Sinai,” pp. 327–330, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

On a gloomy day, a father and son visited a cathedral. As they looked at the stained-glass windows with beautiful depictions of different biblical scenarios, the sun suddenly began shining through the glass picture of people, brightly illuminating them with impressive light. The small boy asked his father: “Daddy, who are these people?” The father didn’t know much about Christianity, Christ, or His disciples but quickly replied: “These people are Christians.” This dazzling picture stayed in the mind of the son. One day the boy’s teacher asked in class: “Children, do you know who Christians are?” The small boy remembered the bright picture in the cathedral and answered: “I know; Christians are shining people.” Along the same line, Jesus said to His followers, “Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven” (Matt. 5:16, NKJV). Only shining people can be agents of change.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“If we would humble ourselves before God, and be kind and courteous and tenderhearted and pitiful, there would be one hundred conversions to the truth where now there is only one.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 9, p. 189. What powerful message is here for all of us about how our characters, our actions, and our attitudes impact our witness?`

`Exodus 34:6, 7 is rightly called the John 3:16 of the Old Testament. Why?`

`How can you explain the beauty of God’s character, based on the self-revelation of God in Exodus 34:6, 7, to people who ask who your God is?`

`In class, let people discuss how the character and actions of people professing Christ impact their walk. That is, what has been the influence of those who were kind, gracious, humble, and forgiving on your own experience? At the same time, how have unkind, unforgiving, and arrogant “Christians” impacted your walk with the Lord?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“The Power of Prayer,” Signs of the Times,  January 29, 1902.\
“Consecration,” in Steps to Christ, pp. 67–75.\