---
title:  What Did Jesus and His Followers Think About the Bible?
date:   11/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week's lesson
Matthew 4:1–11; Matthew 5:17–20; Luke 24:13–35, 44, 45; Matthew 12:3, 4; Acts 3:8.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Jesus answered, ‘It is written in the Scriptures [the Holy Bible], “A person does not live only by eating bread. But a person lives by everything the Lord says” ’ ” (Matthew 4:4, ICB).

SADLY, today in our modern times, some people say that the Bible has no real meaning for our lives. These thinkers doubt that God led holy men to write the Bible. So, these modern thinkers believe that the Bible cannot teach us truth. They think that the Bible was written by people who cannot understand our way of life today. These thinkers do not believe in the Bible’s miracles. They believe that the Bible is a book that has no life or power. For them, the Bible is not God’s ideas about man. No, for them the Bible is only man’s ideas about God. So, for many people in our time, the Bible no longer has any real meaning for our lives.

As Seventh-day Adventists, we reject this view. In the New Testament, we see rules that show us how to understand the whole Bible. We learn these rules when we study how Jesus and His followers understood the Old Testament. That was the only Bible they had at the time. How did they feel about the people, places, and things that happened in their time? How did they decide what the Bible meant? This week, we will look at the answers to these questions.

_As Seventh-day Adventists, we reject the idea that the Bible no longer has any real meaning for our lives._
