---
title:  IT IS WRITTEN
date:   12/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Jesus’ work for God on earth started when John the Baptist baptized Jesus. After that, the Holy Spirit led Jesus to the desert in Judea. There, Jesus did not eat any food for 40 days. After 40 days with no food, Jesus felt very weak. Then Satan came to Jesus and tried to get Jesus to sin.

`Read about Satan’s attack on Jesus in Matthew 4:1–11. How does Jesus fight against Satan in the desert? What does this story teach us about the Bible?`

Satan tries to get Jesus to turn stones into bread. But Jesus says, “ ‘It is written in the Scriptures [the Holy Bible], “A person does not live only by eating bread. But a person lives by everything the Lord says” ’ ” (Matthew 4:4, ICB). Jesus’ safety is trusting in the Bible. The Bible is God’s living Word. When Jesus answers Satan with Bible verses, Jesus shows us the Bible’s power. Next, Satan also offers Jesus this earth’s kingdoms for a price. Jesus must bow down and worship Satan first. Jesus says to Satan, “ ‘Get away from me, Satan! The Scriptures [the Bible] say, ‘You must worship the Lord your God. Serve only him!” ’ ” (Matthew 4:10, ERV; read also Luke 4:8). Jesus shows us that true worship is about God and no one else. True worship also means we must obey God’s Word, the Bible. Finally, Satan tries to get Jesus to sin by showing off His power. Satan takes Jesus up to the top of the temple in Jerusalem. Then Satan tells Jesus to prove that He is God by throwing Himself off. But Jesus says, “ ‘The Scriptures [the Bible] also say, “You must not test [put God’s power to the test] the Lord your God” ’ ” (Matthew 4:7, ERV).

In all three tests, Jesus answers with the words, “ ‘The Scriptures [the Bible] say.’ ” Jesus goes straight to God’s Word to answer Satan’s attacks and lies. This should be a powerful lesson to all of us. The Bible, and only the Bible, is the reason and the foundation for everything we believe.

Yes, Jesus is God. But in His fight against Satan’s attacks, Jesus uses only the Bible. The Bible is not man’s ideas. For Jesus, the Bible has the highest power. He starts His work for God with the Bible. He continues to build His work on the Bible. Jesus trusted God’s Word. We should do the same.

_When Jesus answers Satan with Bible verses, Jesus shows us the Bible’s power._
