---
title:  JESUS AND THE LAW
date:   13/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Matthew 5:17–20; Matthew 22:29; and Matthew 23:2, 3. What is Jesus saying in these verses?`

Jesus teaches His followers to obey God’s Word, the Bible, and the law. There is no hint that Jesus doubted the Bible’s power. Jesus always said the Bible showed God’s plan for humans. Jesus told the Sadducees, or Jewish teachers, “ ‘You are so wrong! You don’t know what the Scriptures [the Bible] say. And you don’t know anything about God’s power’ ” (Matthew 22:29, ERV). Jesus also taught that it was not enough to know about the truth. You also need to know the Lord who is the truth.

`What does Matthew 22:37–40 tell us that Jesus thought about the law of Moses?`

Jesus answers the lawyer’s question. Jesus’ answer shows what the Ten Commandments are all about. Jesus Himself gave the Ten Commandments to Moses nearly 1,500 years earlier. In Jesus’ answer, we see that Jesus gives the highest respect to the Old Testament. Many Christians have thought that Jesus gave a new law here. They think that Jesus replaced the Old Testament law with the Good News from the New Testament. But that idea is false. Jesus’ teaching comes from an Old Testament law. Jesus shows more fully what that law really means. He shows that the 1st four Ten Commandments are about the love and worship we owe to God. The next six commandments are about the love we must show other people. Jesus explains that “ ‘all of the law and the writings of the prophets take their meaning from these two commands’ ” (Matthew 22:40, ERV). Do you see that Jesus names the Old Testament “ ‘the law and the writings of the prophets [special messengers]’ ”? In Jesus’ day, the writings of the Old Testament also were known as the law, the prophets, and the writings. So, by using this name, Jesus honors all the Old Testament.

“Jesus showed that the Bible had power that no human should doubt. We should teach other people this same truth. We must show them that the Bible is God’s Word. God has no limits. So, His Word can end all disagreements. It is the foundation of our faith.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 39, 40, adapted.

_“God’s Word can end all disagreements. It is the foundation of our faith.”_
