---
title:  JESUS AND THE BIBLE
date:   14/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Luke 24:13–35, 44, 45. How does Jesus use the Bible to teach His followers about the Good News?`

After Jesus dies, His followers are confused and filled with doubts. They do not understand why Jesus died. They do not know what His death means. In Luke 24, Jesus shows Himself two times after His death to His followers. First, Jesus shows Himself to two of His followers on the road to Emmaus. Then later, Jesus shows Himself to more of His followers. Both times, Jesus explains how the Old Testament tells about His life and death before they happened. “Then he began [started] to explain everything that had been written about himself in the Scriptures [the Bible]. He started with [explained] the books of Moses and then he talked about what the prophets had said about him” (Luke 24:27, ERV). Again, in Luke 24:44, 45 (ERV), “Jesus said to them, ‘Remember when I was with you before? I said that everything written about me must happen—everything written in the Law of Moses, the books of the prophets [special messengers], and the Psalms.’ Then Jesus helped the followers understand these Scriptures [the Bible] about him.”

Do you see that Jesus depends on the Bible to explain truth? He shows how the things about Him were written many hundreds of years earlier. Jesus also shows His followers an important rule. Jesus wants His followers to use the Bible to help people to understand the Good News too.

Now look at what Jesus says to His followers in Matthew 28:18–20 (ICB): “ ‘All power in heaven and on earth is given to me. So go and make followers of all people’ ” everywhere. Then Jesus says, “ ‘Baptize them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teach them to obey everything that I have told you.’ ” All Jesus’ teachings come from the Bible. He comes in answer to the Bible promises. He does what the Bible says He will do. He obeys His Father exactly as the Bible says He will.

`Jesus accepts the Bible. Why must we do the same?`

_Jesus wants His followers to use the Bible to help people to understand the Good News._
