---
title:  JESUS AND THE HISTORY OF THE BIBLE
date:   15/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Jesus teaches that the Bible is God’s Word. The Bible comes from God. So, it shows us God’s plan for every part of our life. God works in history to show us His plan to save humans. We can see that plan in the Bible.

Let us look at an example from Jesus that shows God’s plan for our lives. In Matthew 19:4, 5 (NLV), Jesus talks about a verse that Moses wrote in Genesis 1:27. Jesus says, “ ‘Have you not read that He Who made them in the first place made them man and woman? It says, “For this reason a man will leave his father and his mother and will live with his wife.” ’ ” Do you see that Jesus does not say “The Bible says”? No, Jesus simply says, “He Who made them in the first place.” Why does Jesus do this? Because He wants to show that God is the real writer of the verse that Moses wrote. Yes, Moses wrote it down. But the truth came from God.

**Read the verses below. What does Jesus think about the people who lived in Old Testament times? Does Jesus think that they are real people?**

`Matthew 12:3, 4`

`Mark 10:6–8`

`Luke 4:25–27; Luke 11:51`

`Matthew 24:38`

Jesus shows us that He believes that Old Testament people, places, and happenings are real. Jesus talks about what happened in Genesis 1 and 2 as real. Jesus talks about Abel (Genesis 4) as a real person too. Jesus also talks about David eating showbread as something that really happened. Showbread was a special bread in God’s house. Only the priests were allowed to eat it. Jesus talks about Elisha as a real person too. Jesus also talks about how much God’s special messengers suffered during Old Testament times (Matthew 5:12; Matthew 13:57; Matthew 23:34–36; Mark 6:4). Jesus talks about Noah. Jesus uses Noah’s story to warn us about how bad things will be in the end times (Matthew 24:38, 39). The Bible shows us that Jesus believed that Noah’s story really happened in history.

_Jesus uses Noah’s story to warn us about how bad things will be in the end times (Matthew 24:38, 39)._
