---
title:  THE NEW TESTAMENT CHURCH LEADERS
date:   16/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The New Testament writers think and feel about the Bible the same way that Jesus does. For the New Testament writers, the Old Testament is God’s Word. The Old Testament taught God’s truth and showed humans how to behave. We do not see anything in the New Testament that shows that its writers doubted any part of God’s Word.

**What do the verses below teach us that the New Testament leaders believe about God’s Word, the Bible?**

`Acts 4:24–26`

`Acts 13:32–36`

`Romans 9:17`

`Galatians 3:8`

Do you see in these verses how the Bible is the same thing as God’s own words? In Acts 4, Jesus’ followers praise God for letting Peter and John go free. Jesus’ followers also praise God for the special messages about Jesus that God gave to David long ago. Jesus’ followers show that David’s words are really God’s words. In Acts 13:32–36 (ERV), Paul also says words that David wrote. Do you see in Acts 13:32 that Paul says that David’s words come from God? Paul says: “ ‘We tell you the Good News about the promise God made to our ancestors [early fathers].’ ”

In Romans 9:17 (ICB), Paul talks about God again. But Paul does not say “God.” No, Paul uses the words: “the Scripture [Bible].” Paul says: “ ‘The Scripture says to the king of Egypt.’ ” We also can write this verse as: “God says to the king of Egypt.” In Galatians 3:8 (ICB), Paul also writes “the Scriptures” in place of “God.” Paul wants us to see that the Bible is tied very closely to God Himself.

New Testament writers believed that the Old Testament was God’s Word. There are hundreds of Old Testament verses in the New Testament: 400 from Isaiah, 370 from the Psalms, 220 from Exodus, and so on. The New Testament is filled with special messages from the Old Testament too. Some examples are Matthew 2:5; Mark 1:2; Mark 7:6; and Luke 3:4. All of this shows that the Old Testament is the foundation for everything that Jesus and His followers taught.

_The Old Testament is the foundation for everything that Jesus and His followers taught._
