---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   17/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**:

Read Ellen G. White, “As a Child,” pages 68–74, and “The Temptation,” pages 114–123, in The Desire of Ages.

“Men think that they are wiser than the Bible. They think they are wiser than God. They do not judge everything by God’s Word, the Bible. The Bible is the foundation for truth. But many men judge the Bible by their own ideas about science and nature. What if the Bible does not agree with their ideas about science? Then these men throw out God’s Word.”—Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, March 27, 1884, page 1, adapted.

“The Bible teaches us about God’s wisdom and plan for our lives. When we learn these Bible truths, we will become good workers. Our minds will grow strong. Jesus is the mighty Teacher. . . . He gave His people the truth. As Jesus’ followers, we must make God’s truth known to everyone on the earth. We cannot be made holy without the Bible. The Bible is God’s truth. So, it is important that everyone understands what the Bible says!”—Ellen G. White, Fundamentals of Christian Education, page 432, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Many modern thinkers do not believe that the Bible is God’s Word. But Jesus, the New Testament writers, and Paul taught that the Old Testament was God’s Word. What should their views tell us about why many modern ideas about the Bible are wrong?`

`2. Many modern Bible experts reject important Bible teachings. They reject the teaching that God made the earth in six days. These Bible experts do not believe that Adam was real. They do not believe in a worldwide Flood. Some experts think that Abraham did not live at all. They think the story of the Exodus did not happen. These experts do not believe that Jesus’ miracles happened. They do not believe He woke up from the dead in a real body. Some of these Bible experts do not believe the Bible’s special messages about what will happen in the future. This is what happens when people start to doubt God’s Word. How can we help doubters to understand the truth clearly?`

_When we learn Bible truths, our minds will grow strong._
