---
title:  When The Sabbath Was Made 
date:  23/05/2021
---

Many Christians think that God made the Sabbath only for the Jews. So, they name it the “old Jewish Sabbath.” But the Bible shows us that the Sabbath was around long before there were any Jewish people. God made the Sabbath when He made the skies and the earth in six days.

`Look up Genesis 2:2, 3 and Exodus 20:11. These verses show us that God made the Sabbath. When does He do that?`

Do you see that Genesis 2:2, 3 does not say that the “seventh day” is the same as the Sabbath? (The first time the Bible says the seventh day is the Sabbath is Exodus 16:26, 29.) Now look at Genesis 2:2 (NLV): “And He rested on the seventh day from all His work.” The word “rested” is “shabat” in the Hebrew language. “Shabat” has almost the same meaning as the Hebrew word for Sabbath, which is “shabbat.” Compare the two Hebrew words: “shabat [rested]” and “shabbat [Sabbath].” Do you see how “shabat” and “shabbat” are spelled almost the same? This shows us the seventh day in Genesis 2:2 is really the Sabbath.

“The word ‘sabbath’ is not written in Genesis 2:2, 3. But we can be sure that Moses was talking about the Sabbath when he wrote that God blessed and made the seventh day holy.”—G. F. Waterman, The Zondervan Pictorial Encyclopedia of the Bible (Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan Publishing House, 1975), volume 5, page 183, adapted. So, we can see Genesis 2:2, 3 teaches us that God made the Sabbath. God also gave the Sabbath to all humans as a blessing.

Read Mark 2:27. Jesus says that the Sabbath was made for all humans and not only the Jews.

`Why does God Himself rest on the seventh day? Does God really need to rest? If no, what other reason do you think God must have for resting on the Sabbath?`

Some Bible thinkers say God needed to rest after He made the earth in six days. But the real reason God rests is to give us an example of what we should do. Humans also must work for six days. Then we must rest on the seventh-day Sabbath. Bible expert Karl Barth says God rested on the seventh day to show humans that rest is part of His agreement with humans. The Sabbath is an invitation from God. On that day, God invites humans to rest with Him.