---
title:  Food From Heaven And The Sabbath 
date:  24/05/2021
---

Read Exodus 16. This chapter tells the story about the manna. Manna is the special food from heaven that God sent His people when they lived in the desert for 40 years. Remember, the story of the manna in chapter 16 happens before Sinai. Let us see what we can learn from this story:

1. The Israelites can use only a limited amount of manna each day. But on the 6th day, they must collect a double amount.
2. God does not give any manna on the Sabbath.
3. God works a miracle on Friday to keep the extra manna from spoiling on the Sabbath. But manna leftover from any other day will spoil the next day.

`Read the story about the manna in Exodus 16:23–28. How does this story show us that the Sabbath is holy long before God gives His people the law at Sinai?`

“God shows His people that the 7th day is the Sabbath. God gives the Sabbath to the Israelites as a blessing. The people rest on the 7th day because God tells them to. All this information helps us remember Genesis 1 and 2 when God first made the Sabbath. At that time, God separated the Sabbath as a special day of rest and blessing for all humans.”—G. F. Waterman, The Zondervan Pictorial Encyclopedia of the Bible, volume 5, page 184, adapted.

**At first, you may not see everything Exodus 16 teaches about the Sabbath. Answering the questions below will help**:

`1. Which day is the day we prepare for Sabbath?`

`2. Which day of the week is the Sabbath?`

`3. Where does the Sabbath come from?`

`4. What experience should we have on the Sabbath day?`

`5. Is the Sabbath a day when we do not eat any food?`

`6. Is the Sabbath a test of our loyalty to God?`

`How does your understanding about the Sabbath match what we learned today in Exodus 16?`