---
title:  'The Sabbath: The Sign Of The Agreement'
date:  25/05/2021
---

**‘ “The Israelites must remember the Sabbath and make it a special day. They must continue to do this forever. It is an agreement between them and me that will continue forever. The Sabbath will be a sign [mark] between me and the Israelites forever.” ’ (The LORD worked six days and made the sky and the earth, and on the seventh day he rested and relaxed)” (Exodus 31:16, 17, ERV).**

The Bible shows us four times that the Sabbath is a “sign” for important Bible truth (Exodus 31:13, 17; Ezekiel 20:12, 20). A sign is not the same thing as a word picture. Word pictures help us remember something else that is almost the same as the word picture itself. An example of a word picture is a fist. A fist shows us “might” or “strength.” But a sign is a mark or object that helps us remember a special message. In the Bible, the Sabbath is a sign that shows us a special message about the agreement God makes with His people. Nothing in the sign really tells us about the agreement. So, why does the Bible say that the Sabbath is a sign (Exodus 31:13) of the agreement with God? Because God says so.

`Why does the Lord make the Sabbath a sign of His agreement? We know that an important part of the agreement is the Bible truth that our good behavior cannot save us. What is it about the Sabbath itself that shows us the plan of God to save us?`

For many hundreds of years, the Jews believed that the Sabbath showed the plan of God to save humans by a Savior. The Jews felt that the Sabbath showed the future time when the Savior will come to this earth to make us free from sin. The Bible teaches that the Sabbath shows us two important Bible truths: the saving plan of God and His agreement (read Deuteronomy 5:13–15). So, the Sabbath shows us the mercy and forgiveness of God. The Sabbath does not show us that we are saved by our own good behavior.

`What does it mean to rest on the Sabbath? How do you rest on the Sabbath? What do you do different on this day that makes the Sabbath a “sign”? How does your life show other people the Sabbath is really a special day for you?`