---
title:  'The Sabbath: A Sign That God Makes Us Holy'
date:  26/05/2021
---

**He said, ‘Tell the people of Israel, “You must always keep my Sabbath days. That will be the sign of the covenant [agreement] I have made between me and you for all time to come. Then you will know that I am the LORD. I am the one who makes you holy” ’ ” (Exodus 31:13, NIrV).**

Exodus 31:12–17 comes after the Lord gives Moses the plan for building Him a house of worship in the desert (read Exodus 25:1 to Exodus 31:11).

In Exodus 31:12–17, the Bible tells us for the first time that the Sabbath is a sign between God and His people. That is, the Sabbath is a mark that shows everyone on earth that the Israelites are the special people of God. Exodus 31:12–17 teaches us two new and important ideas:

1. The Sabbath shows us what it means to know God.

2. The Sabbath shows us that God makes us holy.

What does it mean to know God? The Hebrews taught that knowledge included many parts of the human experience: knowing, doing, and feeling. So, when a Hebrew person “knew” something, he or she knew more than information. This was very true when the Hebrews talked about knowing a person. For the Hebrews, their “knowing” someone meant having a close friendship with that person. So, when the Bible says that someone “knew the Lord,” the Bible means that this person is personal friends with God and serves Him (1 Chronicles 28:9). This person respects and honors God too (Isaiah 11:2). He or she trusts the Lord (Psalm 9:10).

`Look up each of the verses in the paragraph above. How do they help us understand the idea of knowing the Lord?`

The Sabbath also shows us that God makes us holy (compare Leviticus 20:8 with Deuteronomy 7:6). God is the only One who can save us or make us holy. “ ‘Obey my rules. Follow them. I am the LORD. I make you holy’ ” (Leviticus 20:8, NIrV). So, we can see the Sabbath is a sign or mark that shows us that God is the One who makes us holy. “God gave the Sabbath to humans to help them remember that He is the One who made the earth and the sky. The Sabbath is also a sign that shows us that God makes us holy.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 6, page 350, adapted.