---
title:  Remembering The Sabbath 
date:  27/05/2021
---

**‘Remember to keep the Sabbath day holy’ ” (Exodus 20:8, NIrV).**

The Sabbath is a sign or mark that helps us remember important Bible truth. The word “remember” shows us all the things God wants us to think about. God wants us to remember His wonderful work for us in the past, now, and in the future. First, we must remember what God did in the past. The Sabbath helps us remember that God made the earth and the sky in six days. At the end of this week, God rested on the Sabbath. God made the Sabbath a special day of rest each week. The Sabbath is special time we spend together with God.

Second, we must remember everything God does for us now. We show God that we remember Him by keeping the Sabbath holy (read Deuteronomy 5:12).

Finally, we must remember what God will do for us in the future. The person who keeps the Sabbath holy now will have a beautiful future with the Lord of the Sabbath. This promise of future happiness helps us stay loyal to the Lord now. That is why it is important to remember that the agreement with God is a friendship with Him too. The Sabbath can help make our friendship with God stronger.

So, we must remember God and everything He made. Then we also will remember the loving things God does to save us (read Deuteronomy 5:14. In this verse, the Sabbath is a sign or mark of freedom from slavery. God frees Israel from slavery in Egypt. Egypt is also a word picture for our slavery to sin. So, the Sabbath also shows us that God saves us fully from sin.) The Bible truths about God as the One who made us and saves us are shown together in the Sabbath.

`“When we keep the Sabbath, we show other people that we belong to God. The Bible announces that the Sabbath is a mark that shows everyone the people of God. These people obey the law of God. . . . The people who obey the law of God will be in agreement with Him during the worldwide war between good and evil. This war started in heaven between Satan and God.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 2, page 160, adapted. How does the Sabbath show more than any other commandment who the people are who obey the law of God?`