---
title:  Further Thought
date:  28/05/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, pages 968–970, in The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 7; “The Observance of the Sabbath,” pages 349—351, in Testimonies for the Church, volume 6, “From the Red Sea to Sinai,” pages 295–297, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

The Ten Commandments show us fully the plan of God for humans. These laws show us how we must love God and how we must love humans. The commandment at the center of the Ten Commandments is the Sabbath commandment. The Sabbath shows us two important parts: (1) God is Lord of the Sabbath. The Sabbath also shows us (2) everything that God controls and what He owns: all heaven and earth. The Lord who controls everything is also the One who made everything (Exodus 20:11; Exodus 31:17). The Lord owns and controls “ ‘the sky, the earth, the sea, and everything in them’ ” (Exodus 20:11, ERV; compare Exodus 31:17). These two parts of the Sabbath commandment are also part of seals in important peace agreements between kings in Bible times. These seals are most often put in the middle of these peace agreements. The seals in these agreements show us two things: (1) the name of a god worshiped by one of the kings and (2) the area that the god owns and controls. (This land is often a country or other limited area.)

“The Spirit makes humans holy. Holy people will have the seal, or mark, of God. Their holy lives will show that they are different from the people who keep the false day of rest.

“The test will come. Then we will understand what the mark of the beast is. The mark of the beast is keeping Sunday. . . .

“God chose the 7th day as His Sabbath [Exodus 31:13, 17, 16].

“The 7th day Sabbath will show everyone who is loyal to God and who is not loyal to God. The people who want to have the seal, or mark, of God put in their minds must keep the Sabbath holy. This is the 4th commandment in the law of God.”—Ellen G. White, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 7, pages 980, 981, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read Leviticus 19:30. Do you see how this verse makes a connection between the temple of God in heaven and the Sabbath? Explain the connection.`

`Ask yourself this question: Has Sabbath keeping made my friendship and spiritual life with the Lord stronger? If no, what changes can you make?`