---
title:  Finding the Light
date:   01/02/2026
---

**Read This Lesson’s Passage:** John 9

### inTro

**Finding the Light**

Siddhartha Gautama, better known as Buddha, lived more than 2,500 years ago in ancient India (now southern Nepal). Luxury marked his affluent Hindu upbringing in the Shakya clan, but the suffering he witnessed outside his palace—sickness, aging, and death—propelled him to seek a deeper understanding of life. This search led to his renunciation of royal comforts in pursuit of spiritual enlightenment.

He wanted light. After years of ascetic practice and meditation with various teachers, Gautama realized that neither extreme indulgence nor extreme asceticism led to enlightenment. Sitting under the Bodhi Tree in Bodh Gaya, India, he finally found the light he had been looking for. Through deep eastern meditation, he developed the “Four Noble Truths” and the “Noble Eightfold Path”—central teachings that describe the nature of suffering and the path to liberation from it. Gautama then dedicated his life to imparting these insights to people across the Ganges Plain and forming a community known as the Sangha to carry on his legacy. Today, Buddhism has a global following of approximately 520 million adherents, many of whom live in Asia, where it has shaped cultures and societies for more than two millennia.

Jesus stands apart from Eastern ascetics or sages who detach from humanity. While figures like Siddhartha Gautama offered a way to escape suffering through detachment, meditation, and enlightenment, Jesus offers more than just an escape—He offers life (John 10:10). His purpose was not to detach from humanity but to engage fully with it, becoming the embodiment of divine love through His life, death, and resurrection. Rather than distancing Himself from the human condition, Jesus fully entered it, providing a solution not just to suffering but to the root problem of sin and death itself.

Some have claimed that Jesus was influenced by Buddhism during the early years of His life.<sup>1</sup> However, there’s no evidence to support this, and Jesus’ teachings are fundamentally different from those of Buddhist philosophy. Jesus’ approach is holistic and relational. Where ascetics might withdraw to attain personal enlightenment, Jesus actively seeks out humanity, offering not just personal liberation but a restored relationship with God. He declared, “I am the way, the truth, and the life” (John 14:6), emphasizing that He alone is the path to true freedom, not through detachment from life but through a transformed, abundant life in Him.

In this way, Jesus presents not merely a philosophical or spiritual framework for understanding life but a personal offer of eternal life that’s grounded in love and sacrifice. He offers hope and redemption to the world. He brings transformation, refining our motives and desires into what God would have them be.

Gautama longed for light, as do many other sincere seekers of the truth. He desired profound spiritual awakening, wanting to understand the truth about life, suffering, and how to gain liberation from the pain of this world. Jesus made a bold claim about Himself that directly answered Gautama’s longing: “I am the light of the world” (John 8:12). Jesus did not claim to be “enlightened” with an understanding about the truth of this dark world; He claimed to be the source of all light.

As we venture into this week’s lesson, we’ll examine questions like those that led Gautama on his search for “enlightenment” and explore why Jesus said what He did about the problem of evil. We’ll also discuss what meditation is and how Jesus showed us how to find true peace.

### Apologetics Challenge

Is it good enough to be spiritual without Jesus, the Bible, and Christianity? Do we really need Jesus to have eternal life?

### inScribe

Write out John 9:1–7 and take note of all references to sight or light. Continue reading the rest of John 9 and make an outline of the story.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Nicolas Notovitch, _The Unknown Life of Jesus Christ_ (R.F. Fenno & Company, 1894).