---
title:  Buddha’s Dilemma
date:   02/02/2026
---

### inGest

When Siddhartha Gautama walked outside his palace, he saw suffering. Sickness and death seemed to be everywhere. He didn’t find satisfactory answers to the question of suffering within Hinduism’s teachings, and it haunted him. Essentially, Gautama struggled with the problem of evil. He left God out of the equation,<sup>1</sup> ascribing all causes of suffering to desire and attachment, and seeking freedom through meditation<sup>2</sup> and ethical living.<sup>3</sup>

Princeton professor Steve Prothero dismissed the notion that all religions are the same, but observed something that all religions have in common: “What the world’s religions share is not so much a finish line as a starting point. And where they begin is with this simple observation: something is wrong with the world.”<sup>4</sup> When we feel our hearts boil at injustice, wrongs, and suffering, we feel a disconnect in our souls and want to scream that it shouldn’t be this way. We know, deep in our beings, that something is truly wrong with this world—that senseless and random suffering should not happen as part of the natural order of things. As Prothero said, that reality is what all religions attempt to explain.

In John 9, when Jesus encountered suffering, He did not avoid it but directly addressed it with compassion and purpose. Encountering a man born blind, the disciples asked Jesus, “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?” (John 9:2). This question echoed Siddhartha’s concerns. Jesus’ response was transformative: “Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but that the works of God should be revealed in him” (v. 3). Rather than attributing suffering to past sins or karma, Jesus reframed it as an opportunity for God’s glory to be revealed.  He then healed the man, restoring his sight and demonstrating that God’s response to suffering is not merely philosophical or detached, but deeply personal and redemptive.

As the Light of the world, Jesus brings clarity to the dark realities of life, showing that while suffering does exist, it does not have the final word—God’s goodness and love do. Followers of Christ should not hold themselves aloof from suffering but should come close to hurting people to show empathy and bring healing and hope.

### Questions to explore

`In John 9, what was Jesus’ response to the suffering blind man?`

`What’s some of the worst human suffering you’ve seen? How can you bring light to those suffering people?`

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Buddhism is generally considered non-theistic, but theistic versions of Buddhism do exist.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> (Samma Samadhi): Developing deep states of mental concentration (jhana) through meditation. Correct concentration allows for deeper insight into the cessation of suffering.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> (Samma Kammanta): Behaving ethically and morally by not taking life, not taking what is not given (i.e., stealing), and avoiding sexual misconduct. This principle guides individuals to live in a way that’s respectful to others’ rights and well-being, thus reducing harm and suffering.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>4</sup> Stephen R. Prothero, _God Is Not One: The Eight Rival Religions That Run the World—and Why Their Differences Matter_ (HarperOne, 2010), 9.