---
title:  Under the Tree
date:   03/02/2026
---

### inTerpret

Describing Himself as “the light of the world” (John 9:5), Jesus does not just lighten this world in a general sense. Rather, in a very personal sense, Jesus is “the true Light which gives light to every man coming into the world” (1:9). This light is freely available to all, but it does little good for us unless the light is received _within_ us. “If one walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him” (11:10, emphasis added). Without Jesus, our hearts remain in darkness.

After leaving his palace life in search of understanding, Siddhartha Gautama studied under several renowned meditation teachers of his time and explored various spiritual paths available on the Indian subcontinent.<sup>1</sup> Dissatisfied with his teachers’ philosophies, Gautama pursued his own path. Through his own meditation under the Bodhi Tree in Bodh Gaya, he developed the Four Noble Truths and the Noble Eightfold Path, which includes concentration and mindfulness as two key practices.

Meditation means different things to different people. Eastern meditation involves various techniques such as emptying the mind, concentrating on a single object, mindfulness of the surrounding environment, and deep breathing. While Christians can recognize the benefits of things like deep breathing,<sup>2</sup> we must exercise caution when interacting with ideas and practices like Eastern meditation. Whereas Eastern meditation attempts to empty the mind, Christian meditation seeks to fill the mind with God’s Word, His promises, and His guidance. Thus, goals and practices of Eastern meditation is contrary to those of Christian meditation. Jesus modeled the kind of quiet time alone with His Father that Christians should practice. “When He had sent the multitudes away, He went up on the mountain by Himself to pray. Now when evening came, He was alone there” (Matt. 14:23). Luke states, “So He Himself often withdrew into the wilderness and prayed” (Luke 5:16). _The Desire of Ages_ provides this commentary:

In a life wholly devoted to the good of others, the Saviour found it necessary to withdraw from the thoroughfares of travel and from the throng that followed Him day after day. He must turn aside from a life of ceaseless activity and contact with human needs, to seek retirement and unbroken communion with His Father. As one with us, a sharer in our needs and weaknesses, He was wholly dependent upon God, and in the secret place of prayer He sought divine strength.<sup>3</sup>

By spending regularly time alone with His Father, Jesus showed us how to find lasting tranquility. Jesus rested from the activities of life and found the mental, moral, and spiritual strength to endure. If Jesus valued this quiet time and prioritized it, how much more should we?

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what are your main takeaways from this passage?`

`How else does the Gospel of John describe Jesus as the Light of the world? See John 1:4–9; 3:19–21; 8:12; 11:9, 10; 12:35–46.`

`How can we personally receive and retain the light of the world within us?`

`How should Christians relate to meditation?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from John 9. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> 6th to 5th centuries b.c.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, _Education_, (1903), 198.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>3</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 362, 363.