---
title:  The Path to Peace
date:   05/02/2026
---

### inVite

Buddha taught that final enlightenment, or nirvana, is achieved through self-reliance and individual effort guided by the Eightfold Path: right understanding, right intention, right speech, right action, right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness, and right concentration. The idea is to overcome suffering and reach enlightenment through these eight practices. However, this approach can leave individuals feeling burdened by the immense task of achieving peace and purpose solely through their own efforts.

In contrast, the gospel of Jesus Christ offers a different approach. Jesus taught that we cannot earn salvation through good works; rather, salvation is a gift of grace received through faith in Him and His death and resurrection. Ephesians 2:8, 9 emphasizes this essential truth: “For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast.” Human efforts simply cannot achieve salvation, because, as Romans 3:23 points out, “all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God.” Every person is already guilty of sin and eternally lost without the grace of God to save them.

Scripture calls Jesus the “Prince of Peace” (Isa. 9:6). As such, He certainly knows how to provide it. In Matthew 11:28–30, He extends this invitation: “Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For My yoke is easy and My burden is light.”

Instead of leaving us to strive alone, Jesus offers peace—a peace that’s the foundation of spirituality, not merely its goal. Often, people believe that inner peace will come after they have overcome their struggles, but the gospel promises peace before the struggle and victory. It’s this peace that leads the believer to eventual victory. The book _Steps to Christ_ states, “It is peace that you need—Heaven’s forgiveness and peace and love in the soul. Money cannot buy it, intellect cannot procure it, wisdom cannot attain to it; you can never hope, by your own efforts, to secure it. But God offers it to you as a gift, ‘without money and without price.’ Isaiah 55:1. It is yours if you will but reach out your hand and grasp it.”–Ellen G. White, _Steps to Christ_ (1892), 49.

Christ’s assurance of peace, given freely and immediately, is what Buddhism struggles to attain. Instead of relying on personal effort, Jesus’ message offers grace, forgiveness, and eternal life as gifts to be received through faith. Jesus offers what none of us can produce for ourselves.

**Questions to consider:**

`How do we receive the peace Jesus offers?`

`How would you help someone who follows another religion sense their need for Jesus?`