---
title:  Further Thought
date:  01/12/2023
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Ministry to the Rich,” The Ministry of Healing, pp. 209–216; “Captive Maid Shows Concern for Naaman,” Reflecting Christ, p. 337.

Jesus’ love is the same for the poor as it is for the rich and powerful people in the world. He died for princes as well as for paupers. Jesus knew the most effective way of reaching their hearts. He warned us that “ ‘it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God’ ” (Mark 10:25, NIV). We are challenged this week to reach powerful and wealthy individuals with the gospel of Jesus Christ. They are as much in need of salvation as is anyone else, even if, unfortunately, they might not realize it because of the “security” that they believe their wealth offers.

“Much is said concerning our duty to the neglected poor; should not some attention be given to the neglected rich? Many look upon this class as hopeless. . . . Thousands of wealthy men have gone to their graves unwarned. But indifferent as they may appear, many among the rich are soul-burdened.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, p. 210.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus broke down caste and class barriers when ministering to the rich and the poor during His earthly ministry. How do we as Adventists address this issue, that of the gap between the rich and the poor, that is so ingrained in all our societies?`

`Jesus said the following: “ ‘Now he who received seed among the thorns is he who hears the word, and the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he becomes unfruitful’ ” (Matt. 13:22, NKJV). What do you think Jesus meant by “the deceitfulness of riches”? Why do we not necessarily have to be rich to be deceived by riches?`

`In class, go over the question asked at the end of Tuesday’s study about the fact that knowing the truth is not the same thing as being saved by it. Why is this such a crucial distinction for us to make? If knowing the truth alone is not what saves us, what does save us?`

`What other reasons can you think of for why the rich young ruler rejected Jesus while Zacchaeus accepted Him?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Story of Redemption, “The Burial,” pp. 227–229;\
Our High Calling, “A Submissive Will,” p. 105.