src/en/2019-02-er/08/01.md, before:

---
title: 'Parents And Children'
date: 18/05/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Genesis 18:11; Jere-miah 31:25; Psalm 127; Genesis 18:18, 19; Proverbs 22:6. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Children are a gift from the Lord. They are a reward from him” (Psalm 127:3, NIrV).

**EVERY BABY BORN** is a miracle. True, babies are born every day. So, sometimes it is easy to forget that each baby is a gift from God. But maybe this thought can help: Make a picture in your mind of Eve holding baby Cain in her arms. What do you think she felt when she held him for the first time? What about all the changes she felt in her body when Cain grew inside her? And what pain do you think she felt when Cain was being born? What do you think she thought when she looked into his eyes for the first time? He looked the same as Adam and her. But he was so small and weak! And what about Sarah? She had a baby in her 90s! What do you think she felt when she first looked at the face of her son, Isaac? His name comes from a word that means “to laugh.” No doubt Sarah laughed with joy every time she said Isaac’s name! Hannah prayed a long time for a son. Then God gave her Samuel. She said, “ ‘I prayed for this child. The Lord answered my prayer and gave him to me’ ” (1 Samuel 1:27, ICB). And then there is Mary. She became a mother when she was very young. She must have felt deep love as she held God’s Son in her arms.

Not everyone becomes a mother or father. But many of us do become parents. This week we will look at the experience of parents: their joys, fears, and the special problems they meet as they raise their children for God.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/08/01.md, after:

---
title: 'Parents And Children'
date: 18/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Genesis 18:11; Jere-miah 31:25; Psalm 127; Genesis 18:18, 19; Proverbs 22:6. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Children are a gift from the Lord. They are a reward from him” (Psalm 127:3, NIrV).

**EVERY BABY BORN** is a miracle. True, babies are born every day. So, sometimes it is easy to forget that each baby is a gift from God. But maybe this thought can help: Make a picture in your mind of Eve holding baby Cain in her arms. What do you think she felt when she held him for the first time? What about all the changes she felt in her body when Cain grew inside her? And what pain do you think she felt when Cain was being born? What do you think she thought when she looked into his eyes for the first time? He looked the same as Adam and her. But he was so small and weak! And what about Sarah? She had a baby in her 90s! What do you think she felt when she first looked at the face of her son, Isaac? His name comes from a word that means “to laugh.” No doubt Sarah laughed with joy every time she said Isaac’s name! Hannah prayed a long time for a son. Then God gave her Samuel. She said, “ ‘I prayed for this child. The Lord answered my prayer and gave him to me’ ” (1 Samuel 1:27, ICB). And then there is Mary. She became a mother when she was very young. She must have felt deep love as she held God’s Son in her arms.

Not everyone becomes a mother or father. But many of us do become parents. This week we will look at the experience of parents: their joys, fears, and the special problems they meet as they raise their children for God.
