src/en/2019-02-er/08/02.md, before:

---
title: 'The Strong Wish For A Child'
date: 19/05/2019
---

`Read Genesis 18:11; Genesis 30:1; 1 Samuel 1:1–8; and Luke 1:7. What is the same about all the people in these verses? How did God answer their prayers?`

Children are a blessing. But God does not always bless every couple with children. Many people pray for a family. And God gives them children. Sometimes the child is a miracle. Just look at Sarah! But sometimes people pray for children, and God does not give them any. These couples feel a lot of pain when they see their friends having babies. People may ask them, “How many children do you have?” This question only makes the cut in their hearts grow deeper. 

You must believe that God understands your sadness. A writer of the psalms says: “You know I am very upset. You know how much I have cried. Surely you have kept an account [record] of all my tears” (Psalm 56:8, ERV). There are times when we pray, but God seems to be silent. He does not seem to pay attention to our prayers. But we must remember: “the Lord is as kind to his followers as a father is to his children” (Psalm 103:13, ERV).

Some people may decide they do not want to have children. We live on an earth filled with sin, pain, and evil. So, it is easy to understand the reasons why some people may not want to have kids. Other people may choose to adopt a child. They want to give a child who is already born a chance at a better life than the one he or she has.

You will meet many different people in life. Some of these people choose to have children. Other people you meet choose not to have any kids. We may not always know their reasons. But we can be sure about one thing: we are all God’s children. God’s love for His children never fails. In the end, He wants only what is best for us. At the same time, let us always remember to be very kind to people who want children but do not have them.

`Jesus never had any children of His own. Why do you think He chose not to have kids? What comfort can His choice give parents who have no children? What lessons can His choice teach us?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/08/02.md, after:

---
title: 'The Strong Wish For A Child'
date: 19/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Genesis 18:11; Genesis 30:1; 1 Samuel 1:1–8; and Luke 1:7. What is the same about all the people in these verses? How did God answer their prayers?`

Children are a blessing. But God does not always bless every couple with children. Many people pray for a family. And God gives them children. Sometimes the child is a miracle. Just look at Sarah! But sometimes people pray for children, and God does not give them any. These couples feel a lot of pain when they see their friends having babies. People may ask them, “How many children do you have?” This question only makes the cut in their hearts grow deeper. 

You must believe that God understands your sadness. A writer of the psalms says: “You know I am very upset. You know how much I have cried. Surely you have kept an account [record] of all my tears” (Psalm 56:8, ERV). There are times when we pray, but God seems to be silent. He does not seem to pay attention to our prayers. But we must remember: “the Lord is as kind to his followers as a father is to his children” (Psalm 103:13, ERV).

Some people may decide they do not want to have children. We live on an earth filled with sin, pain, and evil. So, it is easy to understand the reasons why some people may not want to have kids. Other people may choose to adopt a child. They want to give a child who is already born a chance at a better life than the one he or she has.

You will meet many different people in life. Some of these people choose to have children. Other people you meet choose not to have any kids. We may not always know their reasons. But we can be sure about one thing: we are all God’s children. God’s love for His children never fails. In the end, He wants only what is best for us. At the same time, let us always remember to be very kind to people who want children but do not have them.

`Jesus never had any children of His own. Why do you think He chose not to have kids? What comfort can His choice give parents who have no children? What lessons can His choice teach us?`
