---
title: 'The Single Parent'
date: 20/05/2019
---

Today many fathers and mothers must raise their children alone. They do not have a wife or husband to help them. Often it is the mother who raises her child or children alone. But that is not always true. Sometimes fathers raise their children alone too.

We often think that single parents were unmarried when they had a baby. But that is not always true either. Look at Hagar. She was forced to have a baby with Abraham. Later on, she was forced to leave with her child (Genesis 16:3, 4; Genesis 21:17). Then there is King David. He had sex with Bathsheba. Then David killed her husband and married her. Later, Bathsheba had David’s baby (2 Samuel 11:4, 5). What about Elijah? God sent Elijah to a village named Zarephath. There, Elijah helped a single mother. She also was a widow (1 Kings 17:9). And finally, there is Joseph. Joseph adopted Jesus. But later Joseph died. Then Joseph’s wife Mary became a widow and a single parent. “Joseph knew the secret about how Jesus was born. Now Mary had no one to talk to about her hopes and fears.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 145, adapted. 

Single parents have a hard job. It is not easy raising a child alone. Many single parents worry about money. They also may not get along with their ex-husbands or ex-wives. Single parents get so busy taking care of their kids. It can be hard for them to find time to spend with God. Many single parents wonder if anyone will ever love them again.

`Look at the promises in Jeremiah 31:25; Matthew 11:28; Jeremiah 29:11; Jeremiah 32:27; Proverbs 3:5, 6; and Isaiah 43:1, 2. What hope do these promises give to single parents? What hope do they give to the rest of us too?`

It is our job as a church to help single parents. Read James 1:27. James was talking about orphans and widows. But we can add single parents to this verse too. We can help single parents in many ways. Money is not the only way we can help. Many single parents need time alone. Maybe we can offer to take care of their children for a few hours. Then they can do other chores. Or they can rest, pray, and read the Bible. We can teach their children. Or we can repair things in their homes. We can be God’s hands in many ways.  

`What can you do to encourage and help single parents?`