src/en/2019-02-er/08/04.md, before:

---
title: 'The Joy Of Being A Parent'
date: 21/05/2019
---

`Read Psalm 127. What is the basic message of this short psalm? What important rules does it teach us about how we should live?`

Do you enjoy cooking? Maybe you have a favorite recipe or dish you like to make. So, you know it is very important to do what the recipe says. First, you need all the ingredients. Then, you must follow all the directions. If you do these two things, the recipe will turn out right most of the time. But being a good parent is not the same as cooking. There is no “recipe” to help us be good parents! No two children are exactly the same either. Even if you raise all your children the same way, each child can grow in different ways. But what was God’s plan for our children from the start of their lives? He wanted parents to teach their children to love and obey Him (Deuteronomy 6:4–9; Psalm 78:5–7). God’s command is: “Train [teach] a child how to live the right way. Then even when he is old, he will still [continue to] live that way” (Proverbs 22:6, ICB). This command does not mean that parents should stay near their children at all times to make sure their kids never make any mistakes!

We want to see our children grow from cute little babies into good adults who know, love, and serve Jesus. As parents, we can follow God’s special plan for our children in Deuteronomy 6. This plan will help our kids grow into strong spiritual adults. There are four important things we need to do first before we follow the plan: (1) We must accept Jesus as “the Lord our God” (Deuteronomy 6:4, KJV). (2) We must love Jesus fully with our whole heart (Deuteronomy 6:5). (3) We must accept the Bible as God’s Word (Deuteronomy 6:6). And (4), We must share with our children what we know about Him (Deuteronomy 6:20–23).

Deuteronomy 6 gives us two more important rules to follow. First, there is the “teach-talk” rule (Deuteronomy 6:7). Teaching happens during family worship when we study the Bible with our children. Talking happens in our day-to-day life. We talk with our children about the things we see every day. We use these examples to teach our children Bible truth (Genesis 18:19). The second rule is the “tie-write” rule (Deuteronomy 6:8, 9). Spiritual truth must be “tied” to what we do and think. Truth also must be “written” on the “doors” of our lives for everyone to see.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/08/04.md, after:

---
title: 'The Joy Of Being A Parent'
date: 21/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 127. What is the basic message of this short psalm? What important rules does it teach us about how we should live?`

Do you enjoy cooking? Maybe you have a favorite recipe or dish you like to make. So, you know it is very important to do what the recipe says. First, you need all the ingredients. Then, you must follow all the directions. If you do these two things, the recipe will turn out right most of the time. But being a good parent is not the same as cooking. There is no “recipe” to help us be good parents! No two children are exactly the same either. Even if you raise all your children the same way, each child can grow in different ways. But what was God’s plan for our children from the start of their lives? He wanted parents to teach their children to love and obey Him (Deuteronomy 6:4–9; Psalm 78:5–7). God’s command is: “Train [teach] a child how to live the right way. Then even when he is old, he will still [continue to] live that way” (Proverbs 22:6, ICB). This command does not mean that parents should stay near their children at all times to make sure their kids never make any mistakes!

We want to see our children grow from cute little babies into good adults who know, love, and serve Jesus. As parents, we can follow God’s special plan for our children in Deuteronomy 6. This plan will help our kids grow into strong spiritual adults. There are four important things we need to do first before we follow the plan: (1) We must accept Jesus as “the Lord our God” (Deuteronomy 6:4, KJV). (2) We must love Jesus fully with our whole heart (Deuteronomy 6:5). (3) We must accept the Bible as God’s Word (Deuteronomy 6:6). And (4), We must share with our children what we know about Him (Deuteronomy 6:20–23).

Deuteronomy 6 gives us two more important rules to follow. First, there is the “teach-talk” rule (Deuteronomy 6:7). Teaching happens during family worship when we study the Bible with our children. Talking happens in our day-to-day life. We talk with our children about the things we see every day. We use these examples to teach our children Bible truth (Genesis 18:19). The second rule is the “tie-write” rule (Deuteronomy 6:8, 9). Spiritual truth must be “tied” to what we do and think. Truth also must be “written” on the “doors” of our lives for everyone to see.
