src/en/2019-02-er/08/05.md, before:

---
title: 'Teach Your Children To Follow Jesus'
date: 22/05/2019
---

Read about the fathers in Genesis 18:18, 19 and 1 Samuel 3:10–14. How did each father raise his children?

God commands parents to teach their children to follow Him. Many parents believe that the best way to teach and correct children is by spanking them (Proverbs 22:15; Proverbs 23:13; Proverbs 29:15). Too often, these verses from Proverbs have been used in the wrong way. Some parents punish their children to force them to obey. But often the children turn against their parents and God. 

The Bible teaches parents to be kind to their children (Ephesians 6:4; Colossians 3:21). Parents must teach their children to be holy (Psalm 78:5; Proverbs 22:6; Isaiah 38:19; Joel 1:3). As parents, we must take care of our children’s needs (2 Corinthians 12:14). We must be good examples for them to follow (Genesis 18:19; Exodus 13:8; Titus 2:2). The Bible tells us to manage our families in the right way (1 Timothy 3:4, 5, 12). We also must correct our children when they make mistakes (Proverbs 29:15, 17). We must show our children God’s love in everything we do (Isaiah 66:13; Psalm 103:13; Luke 11:11).
 
The Bible shows us parents who made bad choices. Isaac and Rebekah had two sons, Esau and Jacob. Isaac loved Esau more than Jacob. But Rebekah loved Jacob more than Esau (Genesis 25:28). Later on, Jacob did the same thing when he had children. He loved Joseph more than he loved any of his other sons (Genesis 37:3). Eli was a religious leader. But he did not teach his children to do right when they did wrong (1 Samuel 3:10–14). Eli also raised Samuel. Samuel did not grow up to be a very good father either (1 Samuel 8:1–6). King David had sex with another man’s wife. Then David ordered someone to kill the man. David was a bad example. Some of his sons did worse sins than their father did. King Manasseh worshiped demons. He killed his children to honor the demons (2 Kings 21:1–9). King Ahaz did the same thing (2 Kings 16:2–4).

The Bible also shows us good examples of parents too. Mordecai was a wonderful father to Hadassah, who also was named Queen Esther (Esther 2:7). Job prayed for his kids every day (Job 1:4, 5). In all these examples, we learn lessons about what we should do and not do as parents. 

`What can we learn from the Bible about being good parents?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/08/05.md, after:

---
title: 'Teach Your Children To Follow Jesus'
date: 22/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read about the fathers in Genesis 18:18, 19 and 1 Samuel 3:10–14. How did each father raise his children?

God commands parents to teach their children to follow Him. Many parents believe that the best way to teach and correct children is by spanking them (Proverbs 22:15; Proverbs 23:13; Proverbs 29:15). Too often, these verses from Proverbs have been used in the wrong way. Some parents punish their children to force them to obey. But often the children turn against their parents and God. 

The Bible teaches parents to be kind to their children (Ephesians 6:4; Colossians 3:21). Parents must teach their children to be holy (Psalm 78:5; Proverbs 22:6; Isaiah 38:19; Joel 1:3). As parents, we must take care of our children’s needs (2 Corinthians 12:14). We must be good examples for them to follow (Genesis 18:19; Exodus 13:8; Titus 2:2). The Bible tells us to manage our families in the right way (1 Timothy 3:4, 5, 12). We also must correct our children when they make mistakes (Proverbs 29:15, 17). We must show our children God’s love in everything we do (Isaiah 66:13; Psalm 103:13; Luke 11:11).
 
The Bible shows us parents who made bad choices. Isaac and Rebekah had two sons, Esau and Jacob. Isaac loved Esau more than Jacob. But Rebekah loved Jacob more than Esau (Genesis 25:28). Later on, Jacob did the same thing when he had children. He loved Joseph more than he loved any of his other sons (Genesis 37:3). Eli was a religious leader. But he did not teach his children to do right when they did wrong (1 Samuel 3:10–14). Eli also raised Samuel. Samuel did not grow up to be a very good father either (1 Samuel 8:1–6). King David had sex with another man’s wife. Then David ordered someone to kill the man. David was a bad example. Some of his sons did worse sins than their father did. King Manasseh worshiped demons. He killed his children to honor the demons (2 Kings 21:1–9). King Ahaz did the same thing (2 Kings 16:2–4).

The Bible also shows us good examples of parents too. Mordecai was a wonderful father to Hadassah, who also was named Queen Esther (Esther 2:7). Job prayed for his kids every day (Job 1:4, 5). In all these examples, we learn lessons about what we should do and not do as parents. 

`What can we learn from the Bible about being good parents?`
