src/en/2019-02-er/08/06.md, before:

---
title: 'When Your Child Turns Away From God'
date: 23/05/2019
---

`Read Proverbs 22:6. What does this verse mean? Is this verse a promise that can never fail? Explain your answer.`

Sometimes as a parent you do everything right. You spend time with your children. You teach them the right things. You live a holy life. You send your kids to good schools. You take them to church every Sabbath. You do special work for God with them. And what happens? They grow up and leave the church. The pain you feel is awful when that happens. You feel you cannot rest for a second. You worry all the time about your children. Will they be saved? But what happened is not always the parents’ fault. Children have minds of their own. In the end, they are responsible to God for their choices and behavior.

Some Christians think that the words of Proverbs 22:6 are a promise that cannot fail. They think that God will save their children because they raised them in the right way. But Proverbs often gives us important rules. Many of these rules are the same as promises that will never fail. Proverbs 22:6 tells us that the lessons we teach our children will last them a lifetime. Our children must decide what they will believe. Will they accept the faith and religion of their parents? Or will they turn away from it? No parent can make this choice for their children. God promises parents that what they taught their children will always be with them. What if the children walk away from God? Then the seeds of truth the parents planted in their children’s hearts will always be there. God always will help our children remember these seeds of truth. He will never stop inviting our children to come back to His truth. The decision to be a good parent is your choice. But what your children choose to believe is their choice. 

What should you do when your children turn away from God? Give your children to God. Pray for them. If anyone understands your pain, it is God. His children on this earth have turned their backs on Him. And He is the perfect Parent! You can pray for your children. You can give them your love and support. You can be there for them as they fight to come back to God. Do not be afraid to ask church members for support or prayer too. Do not blame yourself. Do not forget the rest of your family either. Remember that God loves your child more than you do.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/08/06.md, after:

---
title: 'When Your Child Turns Away From God'
date: 23/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Proverbs 22:6. What does this verse mean? Is this verse a promise that can never fail? Explain your answer.`

Sometimes as a parent you do everything right. You spend time with your children. You teach them the right things. You live a holy life. You send your kids to good schools. You take them to church every Sabbath. You do special work for God with them. And what happens? They grow up and leave the church. The pain you feel is awful when that happens. You feel you cannot rest for a second. You worry all the time about your children. Will they be saved? But what happened is not always the parents’ fault. Children have minds of their own. In the end, they are responsible to God for their choices and behavior.

Some Christians think that the words of Proverbs 22:6 are a promise that cannot fail. They think that God will save their children because they raised them in the right way. But Proverbs often gives us important rules. Many of these rules are the same as promises that will never fail. Proverbs 22:6 tells us that the lessons we teach our children will last them a lifetime. Our children must decide what they will believe. Will they accept the faith and religion of their parents? Or will they turn away from it? No parent can make this choice for their children. God promises parents that what they taught their children will always be with them. What if the children walk away from God? Then the seeds of truth the parents planted in their children’s hearts will always be there. God always will help our children remember these seeds of truth. He will never stop inviting our children to come back to His truth. The decision to be a good parent is your choice. But what your children choose to believe is their choice. 

What should you do when your children turn away from God? Give your children to God. Pray for them. If anyone understands your pain, it is God. His children on this earth have turned their backs on Him. And He is the perfect Parent! You can pray for your children. You can give them your love and support. You can be there for them as they fight to come back to God. Do not be afraid to ask church members for support or prayer too. Do not blame yourself. Do not forget the rest of your family either. Remember that God loves your child more than you do.
