src/en/2019-02-er/08/07.md, before:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 24/05/2019
---

“Take time to talk and pray with your little children. Do not let anything get in the way of this special time. Tell your friends, ‘God has given me work to do. I have no time to sit and listen to bad news about anyone.’ You should feel that your work as a parent is very important. Your first duty is to get your children ready for heaven.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, pages 266, 267, adapted.
 
“Parents, you should start to teach your children to obey you when they are babies. Teach them to respect your wishes. Here is how you do it. Be firm. Have perfect control over your spirit. Be gentle. But at the same time teach your children to do what you want. Then they will learn to obey your wishes. Parents must start training their children when they are very young. Parents also need to stop the first signs of a child’s bad temper. What if parents do not stop the first signs of their children’s bad tempers? Then the children become stubborn. They continue to get more stubborn as they grow older.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [messages] for the Church, volume 1, page 218, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1. What does it mean to be a “child” of God? Explain that word picture. What comfort does this word picture give you?`

`2. When is the best time for parents to start teaching their children to obey them? What is the best way for parents to teach their children to obey them? Why must parents first follow God’s plan for their lives before they can expect their children to obey them?`

`3. Think some more about what it means to be a single parent. What are some ways your church can help single parents and their children?`

`4. What are some ways we can encourage parents whose children have turned away from God?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/08/07.md, after:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 24/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Take time to talk and pray with your little children. Do not let anything get in the way of this special time. Tell your friends, ‘God has given me work to do. I have no time to sit and listen to bad news about anyone.’ You should feel that your work as a parent is very important. Your first duty is to get your children ready for heaven.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, pages 266, 267, adapted.
 
“Parents, you should start to teach your children to obey you when they are babies. Teach them to respect your wishes. Here is how you do it. Be firm. Have perfect control over your spirit. Be gentle. But at the same time teach your children to do what you want. Then they will learn to obey your wishes. Parents must start training their children when they are very young. Parents also need to stop the first signs of a child’s bad temper. What if parents do not stop the first signs of their children’s bad tempers? Then the children become stubborn. They continue to get more stubborn as they grow older.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [messages] for the Church, volume 1, page 218, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1. What does it mean to be a “child” of God? Explain that word picture. What comfort does this word picture give you?`

`2. When is the best time for parents to start teaching their children to obey them? What is the best way for parents to teach their children to obey them? Why must parents first follow God’s plan for their lives before they can expect their children to obey them?`

`3. Think some more about what it means to be a single parent. What are some ways your church can help single parents and their children?`

`4. What are some ways we can encourage parents whose children have turned away from God?`
