---
title:  Further Thought
date:  18/03/2022
---

“During the thousand years between the first and the second resurrection the judgment of the wicked takes place. The apostle Paul points to this judgment as an event that follows the second advent. ‘Judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts.’ 1 Corinthians 4:5. Daniel declares that when the Ancient of Days came, ‘judgment was given to the saints of the Most High.’ Daniel 7:22. At this time the righteous reign as kings and priests unto God. John in the Revelation says: ‘I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them.’ ‘They shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with Him a thousand years.’ Revelation 20:4, 6. It is at this time that, as foretold by Paul, ‘the saints shall judge the world.’ 1 Corinthians 6:2. In union with Christ they judge the wicked, comparing their acts with the statute book, the Bible, and deciding every case according to the deeds done in the body. Then the portion which the wicked must suffer is meted out, according to their works; and it is recorded against their names in the book of death.

“Satan also and evil angels are judged by Christ and His people. Says Paul: ‘Know ye not that we shall judge angels?’ Verse 3. And Jude declares that ‘the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, He hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day.’ Jude 6.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 660, 661.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What does the participation of the saints in the judgment of the wicked (1 Cor. 6:3, Jude 6) say about God and how transparent He will be with us in showing us His goodness and fairness in how He has dealt with sin and evil?`

`Read Exodus 32:32, Psalm 56:8, Psalm 69:28, Psalm 139:16, Isaiah 4:3, Daniel 12:1, Malachi 3:16, Luke 10:20, Revelation 13:8, and Revelation 17:8. These are references to God’s books in heaven. What kinds of things are registered in these books? Why is it important that God maintains a record of our tears (Ps. 56:8), for example? If God knows everything, what is the purpose of such books or records?`

`Why do you think it is important that Hebrews ends the argument of the epistle with a link to the promises of Daniel 7? Why are these links important in the context of Jesus’ ministry in heaven? What does Daniel 7 teach us about the end of all earthly and fallen things?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Faith I Live By_, “Unmoved in the Shaking Time,” p. 336;<br/>
_Early Writings_, “The Shaking,” pp. 269–272.<br/>