---
title:  The Time Is Coming . . .  
date:  30/05/2021
---

**Read Jeremiah 31:31–34 and answer the questions below**:

`1. Who leads in the agreement?`

`2. What law is Jeremiah talking about? Whose law is this?`

`3. Which verses talk about the close, personal friendship that God wants to have with each one of His people?`

`4. What does God do for His people to make a close, personal friendship between Himself and them possible?`

We can see that “new” agreement is not much different from the “old” agreement that God made with Israel on Mount Sinai. So, what was wrong with the old agreement? Why did God need to make a new one if the old and new agreements are so much alike? The “old” agreement is not out of date. The problem with the old agreement is that it is broken.

The answers to the questions above show us that many parts of the old agreement continue to be part of the new one. So, the “new agreement” is really just the same old agreement from before that God makes new again. The new agreement completes or finishes the first one.

`Look at the last part of Jeremiah 31:34. In this part, the Lord says He will forgive the sin of His people. The Lord also says that He will write the law on our hearts and put His law in our minds. At the same time, the Lord shows us that He will forgive us because our sin breaks the law that He writes in our hearts. Do these two ideas disagree with each other? In other words, can God write the law in our hearts when our hearts are full of sin and we have broken His law? If you answer no, explain why these two ideas are in agreement. What does it mean, as Romans 2:15 says, to let God write His law in our hearts? (Also read Matthew 5:17–28 to help you answer the questions.)`

Look again at the verses for today. How can these verses help you answer someone who says we no longer need to keep the Ten Commandments (really, the Sabbath) in the new agreement? Do these verses really say that? How do the verses show that the law of God continues forever?