---
title:  Heart Work 
date:  31/05/2021
---

The first time we read about the new agreement in the Bible is in the book of Jeremiah. At the time, the southern kingdom of Judah is about to end. Then the Babylonians will make the people of God their prisoners. The Babylonians will carry the Jews far away. This is what is about to happen when God tells Jeremiah to announce His new agreement to His people. 150 years before this time, the special messenger Hosea also talks about another agreement (Hosea 2:18–20). Hosea talks about this idea at the time when the Assyrians are about to destroy the 10 tribes of the northern kingdom.

`Read Hosea 2:18–20. Compare what the Lord says to His people in Hosea 2:18–20 with what He says in Jeremiah 31:31–34. What word pictures do you see in both sets of verses? What do these verses tell us about the agreement?`

The Bible shows us the sad history of the people of God. The people of God often reject Him and His plans. They fight against God. They refuse to trust Him. They do not show faith. They turn away from God and disobey His law. But that does not stop God from loving His people. God sends prophets, or special messengers, to announce to His people that He will continue to honor His agreement. The Lord will enter into an agreement with everyone who will turn away from sin, obey His law, and trust His promises.

**Look up the verses below. True, they do not talk about a new agreement. But what do you see in these verses that shows us the important rules in the new agreement?**

`Ezekiel 11:19`

`Ezekiel 18:31`

`Ezekiel 36:26`

The Lord “ ‘will change their hearts. Then they will know that I am the LORD’ ” (Jeremiah 24:7, NIrV). The Lord will “ ‘remove your stubborn hearts from you. I will give you hearts that obey me’ ” (Ezekiel 36:26, NIrV; read also Ezekiel 36:26, 27). This important work of God shows us what the new agreement is all about.