---
title:  Old And New Agreements 
date:  01/06/2021
---

**‘Some foreigners have chosen to follow the LORD. They do this so that they can serve him and love his name and be his servants. They keep the Sabbath as a special day of worship, and they continue to follow closely my agreement. So I will bring them to my holy mountain and make them happy in my house of prayer. The offerings and sacrifices [gits to God] they give me will please me, because my Temple will be called [named] a house of prayer for all nations [people who live in different countries]’ ” (Isaiah 56:6, 7, ERV).**

Jeremiah announces that God will make His new agreement with “ ‘the people of Israel’ ” (Jeremiah 31:33, ERV). Is Jeremiah saying that God will give the promises of His agreement only to people who come from Abraham and are born Jews?

No! That idea is not true. That idea also was not true in Old Testament times. Yes, God gave the Hebrew people the agreement promises. But God never meant His promises only for the Jews. God invited both Jews and non-Jews to share in His promises. But first everyone must accept His agreement. Nothing has changed today.

`Read again the verses from Isaiah written above. What do these verses say that people must do who want to serve the Lord? Does God ask us to do anything different today if we wish to serve Him? Explain your answer.`

Paul says the new agreement is “better” (Hebrews 8:6, NIrV) than the old one. (Read Wednesday’s study.) But the old and new agreements have the same parts. So, they are not really different. The same God in both agreements offers us the same way to be saved. He saves us by His loving favor (Exodus 34:6; Romans 3:24). The same God in both agreements wants a group of people to belong to Him and accept His promises of forgiveness (Jeremiah 31:34; Hebrews 8:12). The same God in both agreements wants to write His law in the hearts of His people. The people of God have a close personal friendship with Him (Jeremiah 31:33; Hebrews 8:10). The people of God include both Jews and non-Jews.

The blood of Jesus joins Jews and non-Jews and brings them near to God. Jesus works to make the new agreement possible for everyone who believes in Him.