---
title:  “a Better Agreement” 
date:  02/06/2021
---

Yesterday, we saw that the old and new agreements have the same basic parts. So, we understand that the two agreements are not really different from each other. Both agreements teach us that God saves us by our faith in Him. God forgives us because He loves us and not because of anything we do to earn His mercy. His forgiveness permits us to have a close, loving friendship with Him. Because of His forgiveness, we can give our hearts and lives fully to God in faith. Then He will help us to serve and obey Him.

Yes, the two agreements are the same. But the book of Hebrews says the new agreement is “much greater [better] than the old one” (Hebrews 8:6, ERV). Why is the new agreement “a much better agreement” (Hebrews 8:6, WE)?

`What was the problem with old agreement? Why did it “fail”? (Read Hebrews 8:7, 8 to answer the question.)`

The problem with the old agreement is not the agreement itself. The problem is the people of God. They fail to have faith in the agreement (Hebrews 4:2). So how is the new agreement better than the old agreement? The new agreement shows Jesus in a much better way. The old agreement shows Jesus by animal offerings. People brought these gifts to the temple. The religious leaders killed the animals to show how Jesus will die to save us. In the new agreement, Jesus is both the offering and the top religious leader. He works to save His people by His blood. So, the gift of forgiveness God offers Israel in the old agreement is the same gift God offers us in the new agreement. But the new agreement shows the love of God for humans more fully. The new agreement also is better because the Bible truth taught by symbols in the Old Testament is shown for real in the life and work of Jesus (Hebrew 9:8–14).

What work did Jesus do? What does He do now? Jesus is the Lamb that was killed. He poured out His blood for our sins (Hebrews 9:12). He works as our religious leader in heaven (Hebrews 7:25). He stands between us and the anger of God against sin. Jesus works to save us day and night.

`Read Hebrews 8:5 and Hebrews 10:1. What word does the writer of Hebrews use to show the old plan of worship in the Old Testament? How does this word help us see that the new agreement is better than the old agreement?`