---
title:  The Religious Leader For The New Agreement 
date:  03/06/2021
---

The book of Hebrews shows us that Jesus works in the temple in heaven to save us. Jesus is our religious leader. The work that Jesus does in heaven for us is connected closely to His promises in the new agreement.

God also wanted His people under the old agreement to understand how He saves humans. So, God commanded Moses to build Him a special tent in the desert where His people may worship Him. Their worship will help them learn about the different parts of the old agreement. One of these parts is animal offerings. The people bring animal gifts to the religious leaders. The animals are killed. The religious leaders offer the blood to God as an offering for the sins of the people. These different parts of worship during Old Testament time show how Jesus saves us. Remember, these offerings are only symbols for the work Jesus does. The animal offerings and blood cannot save anyone.

`Read Hebrews 10:4. Why does this verse say that we cannot be saved by any animals killed for our sins?`

The animal gifts and the religious leaders who offer God the animal blood show the work that Jesus will do. Jesus becomes the Offering. His blood starts the new agreement. The blood of Jesus makes the new agreement legal. The old Sinai agreement and its animal offerings are finished. God Himself makes the real offering. Jesus, the real Offering, gives His life one time for our sins. His offering continues forever (Hebrew 9:26). After Jesus dies, His people no longer need to kill any animals for their sins. That is because the temple on earth does the job God planned for it to do.

`Read Matthew 27:51. This verse tells us that the curtain in the temple on earth is ripped when Jesus dies. How does the ripped curtain help us to understand why the offerings in the temple on earth are no longer needed?`

The Levites offer the animal gifts to God for the sins of the people. But when Jesus dies, there is no longer any need for the work the Levites do. Jesus finishes all the work. Now He offers His own blood in the temple in heaven (read Hebrews 8:1–5). This Bible truth is the reason for the promises God gives us in the new agreement.