---
title:  Further Thought
date:  04/06/2021
---

**Jesus eats the bread and the wine with His followers. By doing this, Jesus shows His followers that He agrees to be their Savior. Jesus also gives them the new agreement. Everyone who accepts Jesus will become children of God. They will share in everything that the Father will give Jesus. The new agreement makes these things possible. The new agreement also permits the followers of Jesus to have every blessing that heaven can offer in this life and in the life to come. The blood of Jesus makes this new agreement legal. As part of the new agreement, the followers of Jesus will eat the bread and drink the wine in the future. Then they will remember that Jesus died for each one of them. Jesus also died for all sinners everywhere on the earth.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 659, adapted.**

“The most wonderful part of this agreement is mercy. God shows mercy to the sinner who confesses his sins and turns away from sinning. The Holy Spirit tells us what the Good News about Jesus is. The Good News is that God saves us because of His tender mercy. The Lord says, ‘I will be kind even when they do what is not right, and I will never remember the wrong things they do’ (Hebrews 8:12, [WE]). Does God turn away from what is fair and right when He shows mercy to the sinner? No. God cannot allow someone to break His law and not be punished. That will not honor the law. In the new agreement, God asks for perfect obedience. We cannot have everlasting life without perfect obedience. So, the sinner must confess his sins and turn away from sinning. Then God will pardon the sinner. Jesus died for the sinner. Through His dying, Jesus made it possible for God to forgive each sinner. Jesus did everything the law asked. Jesus did this for every person who turns away from sin and believes in Him.”—Ellen G. White, God’s Amazing Grace, p. 138, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why is it better for God to write the law in our hearts and not only on two pieces of stone? Which will you remember better? The law written on stones, or the law written in your heart?`

`We can be saved only because of Jesus. How do the old and new agreements teach this Bible truth?`

`Look at the second quotation from Ellen G. White in the study for today. What is “perfect obedience”? Why must we have it in the agreement with God? Who is the only Person who has lived a life of “perfect obedience” for us? Why does God accept this obedience in place of our lawbreaking when we confess our sins?`