---
title:  What Makes a Good Manager?
date:   03/02/2018
---

### Read for this week's lesson: 

Hebrews 11:8-12; Romans 4:13, 18-21; Matthew 6:24; Hebrews 9:14.

> Memory verse: </p>
> "This is what people should think about us: We are servants of Christ [Jesus]. We are the ones God has trusted with his secret truths. A person who is trusted with something must show that he is worthy of that trust" (1 Corinthians 4:1, 2, ICB).

SOME COMPANIES are famous for the things they sell. These companies sell their things under a special name that almost everyone knows. A group of things sold under a special name is called a "brand." Managers of God's gifts also are known by a special name and brand. Their special name is Christians. People know we are Christians by the special things we do and the love we show. This love is our "brand."

A Christian manager's life shows Jesus' love. As Christian managers, we show Jesus' love when we are connected to Him. We show we belong to Jesus when we live in the same way He lived. Then we show that our lives are blended with His (1 Corinthians 6:17). 

This week, we study what makes a good manager. We will learn that we must be loyal managers of God's truth. We must guard this truth, obey it, and teach it to other people. Our study about being good managers will help our connection with God grow stronger. It will make us better managers. As managers, we must remember that God is love. This love will become our "brand" that will have power to change every part of our lives, now and in the future.  