---
title:  "Loyalty to God: Part 1"
date:   04/02/2018
---

Hebrews 11:8-12, 17-19

"A person who is trusted with something must show that he is worthy of that trust"(1 Corinthians 4:2, ICB). It is important for a loyal manager of God's gifts to fight and win "the good fight of faith"(1 Timothy 6:12, NLV). God is loyal. We also become loyal as we allow God to work in us. Being loyal means staying true to the things we know are right, even during spiritual battles. 

Battles between right and wrong and good and evil are fought every day. They will be fought in the future. After all, our faith is a fight against evil. A good manager in every place or time and in every fight of faith will show he or she is loyal to God. What if you love riches? Then your only hope is to stay loyal to God and remember His warning about the dangers of loving money. What if you want to be famous? Then you must stay loyal to what the Bible says about having a heart that is not proud. What if you fight against thoughts that are full of sin? Then you must stay loyal to God's promise to make you holy. What if you want power? Then you must stay loyal to what God says about being a servant to all. The choice to be loyal or disloyal often is made in an instant. What happens after that choice can change our lives forever. 

`Read Genesis 15:6; Hebrews 11:8-12, 17-19; and Romans 4:13, 18-21. What do these verses teach about being loyal?`

In Hebrew, being loyal means to believe or trust. The same Hebrew word also gives us the word "Amen." "Amen"means to be "solid" or "firm." Loyalty means God tested us. And we stayed firm in our loyalty to His plan. 

Here is a story that shows loyalty. It is about a man named Martin Luther. Luther lived in the 1500s. He was a church Reformer. Reformers are people who work to improve things. Luther wanted to improve the Catholic Church. He stood before the ruler of the Holy Roman Empire [Kingdom] to defend his beliefs. "With deep feeling, Luther put his left hand on the Bible. He raised his right hand to heaven. And he promised to stay loyal to God. He would be loyal to what he believed, even if that meant he died." -J. H. Merle d'Aubigné, History of the Reformation [Religious Awakening] of the Sixteenth [16th] Century (New York: The American Tract [Short religious book] Society [Company], 1848), volume 2, book 7, page 260, adapted.  