---
title:  "Loyalty to God: Part 2"
date:   05/02/2018
---

Matthew 6:24

`"'No one can be a slave to two masters. He will hate one master and love the other. Or he will follow one master and refuse to follow the other. So you cannot serve God and money at the same time'" (Matthew 6:24, ICB). What does this verse teach us about loyalty to God?`

God's name means " 'Jealous' " (Exodus 34:14, NIrV). You will recall from lesson 2 that "jealous" means God "carefully protects what belongs to Him." Our knowing this meaning of God's name should help us all to see that we need to be loyal to God. What does it mean to be loyal to a "jealous" God? It means we show our loyalty to Him by our love. Loyalty to God shows who we are in the fight of faith. Our loyalty also encourages us to fight. 

Our loyalty is very important to God (1 Kings 8:61). Loyalty does not mean following a list of rules. Instead, loyalty shows our beliefs, faith, and trust in God. 

`Read 1 Chronicles 28:9. What does this verse teach us about why we need to be loyal to God?`

We can choose to be loyal. Or we can choose to disobey God. But we must give God our loyalty in the same way that we give Him our love. We must offer our loyalty and love to God as free gifts. Here is a word picture that helps us understand better what this idea means. In war, sometimes troops on the front lines are forced to stay and fight. What if these troops leave? Then their leaders would shoot them. So, these troops stay. But they do not stay because of loyalty. That is not the service God asks from us. 

Now let us look at Job. God did not warn Job about all the pain and ruin that would destroy his family, his belongings, and his health. Many awful things happened to Job. But he never stopped trusting, loving, and serving God. Instead, Job chose to do what was right. Job's loyalty is shown in these famous words, " 'Even if God kills me, [I will] still [continue to] put my hope in him' " (Job 13:15, NIrV). Job was loyal to God even after bad things happened to him. He is an example of a loyal servant of God. 

`Are you loyal to God? If yes, how loyal are you? How can you show your loyalty more?`