---
title:  Hearts and Minds with no Guilt
date:   06/02/2018
---

Hebrews 10:19-22

There are many precious things we can own. They include health, love, friends, and a wonderful family. All these are special gifts from God. But maybe the most important gift from God is a mind with no guilt.

`Read Hebrews 10:19-22 and 1 Timothy 4:1, 2. As these verses show us, what does it mean to have a "sense of... right and wrong [that] has been destroyed" (1 Timothy 4:2, NIrV) and to have an "understanding... destroyed by a hot iron" (1 Timothy 4:2, ICB)?`

Our sense of right and wrong helps us to do good and to make the best choices in life. Where does the power to make the best choices come from? It comes from having God's law written on our hearts and minds. Then we can understand right from wrong and choose what is right. God wrote His law on the heart of Adam. But sin almost erased God's law. And not just in Adam, but also in Adam's children and all who came after them. Only small pieces of the knowledge of God's law stayed in their minds. But even then, "they show that in their hearts they know what is right and wrong, just as the law commands" (Romans 2:15, ICB). Sadly, Adam failed to obey this law. But Jesus succeeded where Adam failed. He succeeded because God's law was from the very beginning " 'within [His] heart' " (Psalm 40:8, NLV). 

`Read what Paul says in Hebrews 9:14. What does Paul say will heal our minds from the damage of sin? What gives our minds the power to know and choose right from wrong?`

"The mind must be made clear and clean. And it must stay that way. A clear and clean mind will be able to choose between good and evil."-Ellen G. White, Mind, Character [Thoughts, feelings, and actions], and Personality, volume 1, pages 327, 328, adapted. So, God's law must be written on the heart of the believer (Hebrews 8:10). 

`Who has not fought against the awful power of a guilty heart and mind? Every sinner knows that this battle can be a curse. How can thinking about Jesus and His death on the cross for your sin help free you from this curse?`