---
title:  Obeying God
date:   07/02/2018
---

1 John 5:2, 3

Abel bowed at his altar. On his altar was a lamb. God told Abel to bring this lamb as a gift to Him. Nearby, Cain bowed at his altar. But on Cain's altar there was fruit instead of the lamb God asked for. Both brothers brought gifts to God. But only one brother brought what God asked for. God accepted the lamb Abel brought. But God rejected the fruit that Cain had grown from the ground. Both brothers understood very clearly what God wanted them to do. But only one brother obeyed the Lord's command (Genesis 4:1-5). 

"Abel died because Cain refused to obey God or accept His plan to be saved by the blood of Jesus. The lamb that Abel put to death pointed to Jesus' future death on the cross. Cain refused to accept this gift of blood. This blood pointed to the blood Jesus would someday give to all the people who have ever lived on this earth."-Ellen G. White Comments [Thoughts], The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 6, page 1109, adapted. 

Obedience starts in the mind. It means doing what God commands us to do. The power to obey comes from God. And we must be willing to obey Him. Yes, we choose to obey God. But God never forces us to obey Him. Instead, we choose to obey Him because we love Him. When we love God and serve Him, then we will want to do everything God asks. Obedience also means that God decides what we must do, not us. Cain's choice is a warning. It shows us what happens when someone does what he or she wants to do instead of what God asks. 

`Read 1 John 5:2, 3; Romans 1:5; and Romans 10:16, 17. What do these verses teach us about the meaning of obedience? We are saved only by faith. We are not saved by any good works that we might do or by obeying the law. So then, what does true obedience mean to the Christian?`
 
We do not obey to be saved. We obey because we believe and trust God as Abraham did. Obedience shows our faith. Samuel told Saul, " 'Is the Lord pleased as much with burnt gifts as He is when He is obeyed? See, it is better to obey than to give gifts. It is better to listen than to give the fat of rams' " (1 Samuel 15:22, NLV). 

`What does Samuel mean by " 'it is better to obey than to give gifts' "? How can this saying help us not to fall into the trap of believing we can be saved by our works?`