---
title:  Someone God can trust
date:   08/02/2018
---

Luke 16:10-12

`What does Luke 16:10-12 teach us about why we need to be dependable? Why is it so important for a loyal servant of God to be someone God can trust?`

The importance of being dependable is seen everywhere in the Bible. In one Bible story we read about four top leaders of the family of Levi who were asked to guard the sanctuary. The sanctuary was the place where people worshiped God in the Old Testament. The family of Levi guarded the rooms full of treasure at night. They also had the keys that opened the doors every morning (1 Chronicles 9:26, 27). They had this job because they could be trusted. 

People need to be able to trust us. Trust is part of being a good manager. Good managers also trust God. They will do all they can to be dependable and to show they are worthy of God's trust too (Deuteronomy 32:4; 1 Kings 8:56). Being dependable means that you always can be trusted to do what you say you will do (2 Kings 12:15). So, it is important for us to be someone other people can trust. Then other people will see God in our lives and come to know Him. 

Daniel is another example of a dependable person. The rulers of two kingdoms depended on Daniel to tell them the truth. Often what Daniel said did not agree with the magicians and wise men who also served the kings. But Daniel shared the truth without any fear. Daniel's life shows us how important it is to be someone that people can trust. This trust is one of the best gifts we can have. Other people will see that our beliefs are very good because they can trust us. Now, we cannot get people to trust us right away. It takes time. But we start earning their trust by staying loyal in even the little things in life. 

Soon others start to notice we can be trusted. They notice that we will not change our behavior because of false praise or what others think of us. We do not let lies lead us to do wrong. So, people begin to respect and depend on us. We show them who we are and who we are becoming. We show them we are ready to live in heaven. "We must be loyal, dependable citizens of the kingdom of Jesus. Then people who are not Jesus" followers will see a true example of the riches, the goodness, the mercy, the tenderness, and the kindness of God's kingdom."-Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 6, page 190, adapted. 