---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   09/02/2018
---

### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT: 

This week, we learned about being a good manager. Managers obey God and can be trusted. They are loyal. But did you know that good managers also understand they are responsible for their behavior? "Satan's plan always has been to steer minds away from Jesus to man. It is also Satan's plan to make men feel they are not responsible for their actions and the choices they make."-Ellen G. White, Early Writings, page 213, adapted. 

Jesus must become the reason we live our lives and the reason for who we are. Then we will accept His leading. Faith, loyalty, a guilt-free heart and mind, being dependable, and feeling responsible for what we do will be shown in our lives. In this way, God makes us new people in Him (Psalm 139:23, 24). 

So, to be a good manager, you must be responsible for your actions. You must be willing to accept blame when you do wrong. The Bible teaches that this duty is an important law in life. In the same way, Jesus was responsible for the things He did (John 8:28) while He lived on earth. We also must be responsible for the things we do. We must be willing to accept the blame for every " 'empty word [we] have spoken' " (Matthew 12:36, NIrV) and " 'every word [we] have spoken that was not important' " (NLV). " 'The man who receives much will have to give much' " (Luke 12:48, NLV). What is the biggest danger to our success at being responsible for what we say or do? It is wanting to give to someone else the work God gives us. "Let us always remember that we have been trusted to take care of things that do not belong to us. If these things were ours, we could do anything we want with them. We could choose to give our duty to other Christians and leave our work to them. But we cannot act in this way. The Lord has made each one of us His managers."-Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 7, page 177, adapted. 

### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`1. How do the different parts of a manager's job connect? What if we were lazy in one part of our job as managers? Could this cause us to be lazy in another part? If yes, how?`
 
`2. Loyalty is valuable. But can we be loyal to someone or something in a way that is not good? If yes, how can we be sure that we do not place our loyalty in the wrong person or thing?`