---
title:  Offerings for Jesus
date:   21/01/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Matthew 6:31–34; Psalm 116:12–14; 1 Chronicles 16:29; Mark 12:41–44; Mark 14:3–9.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “What can I give the Lord for all the good things he has given to me? I will give him a drink offering for saving me. And I will pray to the Lord. In front of all his people, I will give the Lord what I promised” (Psalm 116:12–14, ICB).

We give God our tithe. Tithe is 10% of all the money we get. We also give offerings to God. We give Him our offerings from the money left over after we pay tithe. Our offerings show what is in our hearts. The Israelites gave many different offerings to show what was in their hearts, too. They gave sin offerings to show God they were thankful for His mercy. God’s people gave thank offerings to show God that they were grateful for His protection. Israel also gave God offerings to thank Him for blessing them with health, riches, and life. God’s people also gave special offerings for the poor. God’s people gave offerings to build and repair God’s temple, too.

Our offerings are about more than buying special robes for the church’s singers or paving the church parking lot. We bring our gifts of money to God to show Him our thanks for everything He does for us. “We love because God first loved us” (1 John 4:19, ERV). The church uses our gifts of money to support God’s work worldwide and in the local church. This week we will study what the Bible says about offerings and how we use them to do God’s work on earth.