---
title:  The Reasons for Giving
date:   22/01/2023
---

We love God because He first loved us. We give to Him because of His wonderful Gift to us: Jesus. We are told, “The Lord doesn’t need our offerings. We can’t make God rich by the gifts we give Him. King David says, ‘Everything comes from you. We have given you back what you gave us.’ [1 Chronicles 29:14, ICB]. God wants us to show Him that we are thankful for His blessings. God accepts our offerings that we give Him with thankful hearts. We give this money to God so that He can use it to bless other people, too. God gives us no other way to show Him our love and thankfulness.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, page 18, adapted.

When we give “our” money to Jesus, our giving makes our love for God and other people stronger. So, money can do a lot of good. Jesus talked a lot about money and riches. One verse out of every six verses in Matthew, Mark, and Luke is about money. The good news is that God can save us from the wrong use of money. He can save us from loving money more than we love Him, too.

`What does God promise to do for us if we obey Him? Read Matthew 6:31–34 and Deuteronomy 28:1–14 for the answer. Are we being selfish to ask God to keep His promises to us?`

Our offerings show that we don’t want to be selfish. Giving our offerings to God can be a deeply spiritual experience for us. When we give offerings to God, we show that we give our lives fully to Him. You can say with your words that you love God. But your offerings help show your love and make that love stronger.

We give offerings to God because we trust Him. We believe He gives us everything we need. God knows what is best for us. Our offerings also show that we accept Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. We can’t buy God’s mercy, good favor, or blessings. Our offerings must come from hearts that accept Jesus and His saving gift by faith.

`What is the Lord saying to us in 2 Corinthians 9:6, 7? What does Paul mean when he says, “Each one of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give” (ERV)? Why does the Lord love people who are happy to give?`