---
title:  How Much Offering Do We Give?
date:   23/01/2023
---

`God tells us to give Him tithe. As we know, tithe is 10% of all the money we get. But God doesn’t tell us how much offering to give. What important rule does God give us to help us decide how much offering to give Him? Read Deuteronomy 16:17 for the answer.`

Our offerings show that we thank God for His many gifts and blessings. Deuteronomy 16:17 shows us an important rule about how much offering we should give. We give God as much as we can because of how much He blesses us. “ ‘Everyone who has been given much will be responsible for much. Much more will be expected from the one who has been given more’ ” (Luke 12:48, ICB).

`Read Psalm 116:12–14. What is the correct answer to the question in verse 12? How do these verses help us to understand how much offering we should give?`

How can we pay God back for all His blessings to us? Really, we never can. The best we can do is give as much as we can to support His work on this earth and to help other people. When Jesus sent out His followers to do His work, He told them, “ ‘I give you these powers [special gifts] freely. So help other people freely’ ” (Matthew 10:8, ICB). When we give, we become more loving. So, we must use our offerings to help other people and support God’s work.

Let’s always remember that “God loved the world [humans] so much that he gave” (John 3:16, ERV). The more selfish we are, the more selfish our hearts will become. The worse we will feel, too.

God lets us decide how much offering we will give and where we will send our gifts of money. Wherever we send our offerings and whatever amount we give, it is our duty as Christians to give an offering to the Lord. When we fail to give God an offering, we hurt ourselves more than we understand. We also rob God of what belongs to Him.

`What do your offerings and your feelings about giving say about your connection to God?`