---
title:  Offerings and Worship
date:   24/01/2023
---

The Bible doesn’t tell us what we should do when we worship God at church. But the Bible does tell us about four things that should be part of our worship experience. These four things include: (1) study and/or preaching, (2) prayer, (3) music, and (4) tithes and offerings. As we know, tithe is 10% of all the money we get.

Three times each year the men and families from Israel went to Jerusalem to meet with the Lord for special holidays. “ ‘Everyone who comes to meet with the Lord must bring a gift’ ” (Deuteronomy 16:16, ERV). So, we see that part of our worship experience includes tithes and offerings.

This verse shows us that the worship experience for Israelites included their giving tithes and offerings. Worship is more than sermons, songs, and prayers. We also show God that we are thankful when we bring our offerings to Him. The Israelites brought their offerings to the temple. We bring our offerings to the church on Sabbath. (Some people give their offerings to God online.) These gifts are another way we worship God.

`Read 1 Chronicles 16:29; Psalm 96:8, 9; and Psalm 116:16–18. What important Bible rules do you read about in these verses? How do we live out these rules in our own worship experience?`

As God’s children, we are responsible for managing His business on this earth. So, we must bring God our offerings. At the same time, we feel honored to bring God our offerings, too. Do you have kids? If yes, then share with your children the joy you feel when you bring your tithes and offerings to God. Teach them that giving tithe and offerings to God is part of their worship experience with God.

`How do you worship God with tithe and offerings? How did your tithes and offerings help your friendship with God grow stronger?`