---
title:  God Knows How Much We Give
date:   25/01/2023
---

`Read the story in Mark 12:41–44 about the widow. What message can we take from this story? What important rule does this story teach us? How can we live by this rule? In what ways can it make our worship experience stronger?`

Jesus and His followers stood in the area next to the temple. The priests or religious leaders put money boxes for the temple in this area. Jesus watched the people bring their gifts of money to put in the boxes. Jesus saw a widow put in two copper coins. The widow put in all the money she had. “Jesus understood the reasons for the widow’s gift. Jesus knew why she gave. The widow believed that God set up the temple. So, the widow wanted to do everything she could to support its work. The woman did her best to help. Jesus said that people will always remember the widow and her gift. The widow will feel joy in heaven because of her gift, too. Jesus judged the real worth of her gift. The widow’s love for God made her gift much more valuable than it was worth. The widow felt a deep interest in supporting God’s work. That interest caused her to give all that she had to God.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, page 175, adapted.

Do you know that the widow’s gift is the only offering to the church that Jesus praised? That shouldn’t really surprise us. The widow gave all her money to a church that was about to reject Jesus. Jesus also gave up everything He had for this church, too.

`Read Acts 10:1–4. Why did a Roman army leader get a visit from an angel from heaven? What two things did the Roman army leader do that God saw and praised?`

God hears our prayers. He also knows why we give gifts. Acts 10:1–4 shows us that Cornelius gave a lot of money to support God’s work. “ ‘Your heart will be where your treasure is’ ” (Matthew 6:21, ERV). Cornelius’s gifts show us he was ready to learn more about Jesus. Prayer and helping the poor show the two important rules of God’s law: (1) love for God and (2) love for people. The Bible says, “ ‘ “Love the Lord your God. Love him with all your heart, all your soul, all your strength, and all your mind.” Also, “You must love your neighbor as you love yourself” ’ ” (Luke 10:27, ICB). Prayer shows our love for God. Giving offerings to help the poor shows our love for other people.