---
title:  Mary’s Gift
date:   26/01/2023
---

Research shows that only about 9% of the things people own are cash. This cash can include money in a savings account, checking account, or other special savings accounts for retirement. Most of our money is not cash in our bank or our wallet but in the things we own. These include our homes, our farm animals, or other things.

`Read Mark 14:3–9 and John 12:2–8. Who were the guests at Simon’s feast? How much was Mary’s gift really worth? Why did Mary pour oil on Jesus’ feet and wash them with her hair during the feast?`

Mary’s gift was worth 300 denarii. A denarius was a type of Roman coin. 300 Roman denarii was a full year’s pay. After Mary poured this expensive gift on Jesus’ head and feet, Judas got angry at Jesus. Then Judas sold Jesus to the religious leaders for only 30 pieces of silver (Matthew 26:15). Compared to Mary’s gift, the pay Judas got was not very much. The 30 pieces of silver were only worth one-third of the amount of money that Mary’s expensive perfume was worth. But Judas was selfish and greedy. A greedy person is someone who wants too much. When we get greedy as Judas was, we can sell ourselves to Satan for far less than we are worth.

Barnabas is an example of a giving person. Barnabas is very different from Judas. We know Barnabas mostly as Paul’scompanion.TheNewTestamenttellsus28timesabout the work that Barnabas did for God. For sure, Barnabas was a hard worker. He loved God so much. Barnabas spent his life traveling from place to place to share the Good News about Jesus with people everywhere. What was the secret to Barnabas’s success? Read the answer in Acts 4:36, 37. These verses talk about Barnabas’s big offering. Barnabas is a powerful example of Jesus’ words: “ ‘Your heart will be where your treasure is’ ” (Matthew 6:21, ERV).

`Barnabas did not spend his money on himself. He gave everything he could to help support God’s cause. How does God bless us when we give offerings to bless other people?`