---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   27/01/2023
---

God keeps a record in heaven of everything we give to support His cause. “An angel from heaven keeps record of every offering we give to God. The angel also writes down how that offering is used and who the money helps. God sees every penny we give in faith to His cause. God sees how willing we are to give our offerings, too. God can see all the thoughts and feelings in our hearts. The angel writes down the reason in our hearts we have for giving our offerings. God will give gifts to His followers who give back to Him what belongs to Him. When you give, you hope your offerings will bring honor to God and help save people. But sometimes the church may not spend the money wisely. So, the good work you tried to support doesn’t happen. Don’t worry. God will bless you anyway. When we put God first in our lives, He will bless all our offerings.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 2, page 518, adapted.

“God wants people to pray and plan for His work to succeed. We must behave as Cornelius. Cornelius not only prayed for God’s work to succeed. Cornelius also gave offerings. So, we must pray and give, too. God will remember our prayers and our gifts. We show our faith by the good things that we do for God. When we join our faith to action, we will have a living faith. Without a living faith, we can’t please God. While we pray, we must give everything we possibly can to God. We must work hard and support His cause with our money. Then God will answer our prayers. If we live what we believe, God will remember us. God makes a record of every act of love we do. He sees all the money we save to support His work. God will give us chances in life to show our faith by acts of love.”—Ellen G. White, Atlantic Union Gleaner, June 17, 1903, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`Why must we pray and work? How do these things go together? That is, how does praying help you know what to give, when to give, and how much?`

`In the first Ellen G. White quote above, she talks about money that is not spent wisely. Why should we remember Sister White’s words when we give?`