---
title:  End-Time Deceptions
date:   26/05/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “So the great dragon was cast out, that serpent of old, called the Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world; he was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him” (Rev. 12:9, NKJV).

**Normalized Hoopskirts**

**Introduction**: Gen. 3:1–6

How does an idea or practice become “normal”? This is a question that has endlessly fascinated historians.

Take, for example, a convention of nineteenth-century fashion: hoopskirts. In the latter half of the 1800s, the hoopskirt was a normalized feature of American dress. When it was introduced in 1856 as a replacement for the crinoline—a much heavier, expensive, and difficult-to-clean undergarment— women flocked to the hoopskirt as an ingenious and comfortable way to maintain the ideal feminine figure.* The pull of the fashionable hoop was strong. In the context of the times, it seemed to make complete sense.

Yet today, many of us would be hard pressed to justify sewing steel Hula- Hoops into our clothing. And my feeling is that if time travel were possible, not a few hoopskirt-wearing women would be bowled over by how denizens of the twenty-first century dress themselves.

Like certain ideas and practices throughout history, deception comes in the guise of what seems “normal,” desirable, comfortable, reasonable, fun, exciting, or lifesaving. Deception never labels itself “deception.” (If it did, it would cease to be deception.)

In the Garden of Eden, Satan disguised himself as a beautiful serpent to convince Eve to eat the apple. The Bible describes him as “more subtil than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made” (Gen. 3:1). Through deception, Eve ate the apple. Yet this deception came in the form of what seemed reasonable and attractive. To her eyes, it appeared that “the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise” (Gen. 3:6).

Satan is in the business of deception: from his fall in heaven to the end of time, he works to convince or lull us into the acceptance of ideas and practices that run contrary to the principles of God’s kingdom.

Society, trends, fads, culture, and politics can never safeguard us against deception, often, instead, normalizing and desensitizing us to sin. God’s Word alone can help us recognize falsehood. The Bible orients us to His loving, lifesaving, beautiful system of truth—His “normal”—that runs so contrary to the world’s “normal.”

Do you want to ask God to help you commit yourself fully to living by His Scripture today?

* H. Kristina Haugland, “Crinoline,” Encyclopedia of Clothing and Fashion, ed. Valerie Steele, vol. 1 (Detroit: Scribner and Sons, 2005), p. 317.

_Michel Lee, Austin, Texas, USA_