---
title:  The Word Made Flesh
date:   27/05/2018
---

**Evidence**: Heb. 1:1–3; John 1:14; 2 Pet. 1:16–21

**God-Inspired Word** (2 Pet. 1:16–21; 2 Tim. 3:16)

When Paul writes to Timothy in his second epistle, he states that the Scriptures (Old Testament writings) were given through the “inspiration of God” (2 Tim. 3:16). In Greek this can be translated theopneustos. It is a combination of two Greek words, theos and pneuma—theos, meaning “God” or “deity”; pneuma, meaning “breath” or “wind.” In the New Testament, this is synonymous with the Holy Spirit, the actual word breath. As Christians, we accept the written Word as God’s clearly communicated thoughts, and this directly impacts our individual relationships with Jesus (1 Thess. 2:13). When we believe God’s Word and receive it as His Word, Jesus can effectually make changes in our lives.

**The Word Made Flesh** (John 1:1–3, 14, 18; Heb. 1:1–3)

In the book of John, this Word that was in the beginning with God and who was also God came to earth and dwelt among the people of earth in the very flesh! (John 1:1, 14). Even though no one has seen God physically (John 1:18), Jesus the Son of God came to fully express the true character of who God is to all who are willing to receive Him. From the time of our spiritual forefathers, God had communicated with His people through the prophets. However, when His Son Jesus Christ came to earth, the primary method of communication changed from the prophets to direct communication with God Himself in the form of a human being! (Heb. 1:1–3). When you heard Jesus speak or saw Him perform any action, it was like hearing and seeing God the Father speak and act because Jesus is the express image of the Father’s person. Jesus Himself testified to this, saying that whatever the Father does, the Son does in like manner (John 5:17–19).

**Receiving the Word** (Luke 8:4–8, 11–15; John 1:11, 13; 8:31, 32)

In the parable of the sower in Luke 8, the world is likened to a simple seed. A seed can be defined as a germ or a reproductive source of anything. In the first stage of our reproductive process—changing from sinful human beings into perfect reflections of Jesus Christ—how we receive Him into our hearts, our daily lives, and our minds is of the utmost importance, and we need to get a good grasp on this. John 1:11, 13 and John 8:31, 32 present us with two opposite responses to Jesus and how He was received.

**Feeding on the Word** (John 6:41–51, 53, 54, 61–63)

The text that Jesus quotes in John 6:45 is Isaiah 54:13, where God makes a covenant with Israel saying that all will be taught of God. The Word is more than just a combination of alphabetical letters written in ink on paper. The words that are communicated are spirit and they are life! They are a source of light in a world full of darkness. There is nothing in this world that can give more quality and richness to an individual’s personal life than the Word. This is especially true when the Word is applied within the personal parts of one’s life. It is important to understand what Jesus is saying here. People consume bread and water periodically every day for energy and sustenance; without this consumption, the human body weakens. Likewise, for the Christian, our spiritual bodies will be malnourished and without good health if we do not consume Christ and the words He has for us.

**Power of the Word** (John 14:12–14; 15:5, 7, 8)

Without a daily consumption of Christ through His Word, the Savior says that it is impossible to do anything within the spiritual realm. Without Christ we can never gain victory over our incredibly selfish hearts; without Christ we cannot heal the brokenhearted or set any captives free or even set ourselves free from slavery to sin. The greatest evidences of the Word being made flesh in the Christian life are the changes and reformation that lives go through when applying the Word (Gal. 2:20; 2 Cor. 5:17). The evidence seen within the personal life of that Word, indeed, within us and we within Him is a new life. It empowers us to overcome habits that for years have held us down with what seem like unbreakable shackles. The thoughts and feelings toward spiritual things completely change, and we fall in love with the principles of heaven. Our greatest passions, that rule the minds of the majority of the masses, are brought into submission to the power of the Holy Spirit. This is all done through Him who is the Word whenever we ask Him to re-create us anew, moment by moment every day. This He is more than capable of doing until we fully mature into the fullness of His glory when He comes to take us home.

**React**

`1. What are some tangible ways in which you can commune with Christ through His Word?`

`2. Why is it so important that you understand that how you receive Christ affects your relationship with Him?`

`3. What is some evidence in your life so far that points to the Word recreating you anew?`

_Wyson Ndovie, Detroit, Michigan, USA_