---
title:  That Time Will Soon Come
date:   28/05/2018
---

**Testimony**: 1 Tim. 6:12

“Satan represents God’s law of love as a law of selfishness. He declares that it is impossible for us to obey its precepts. The fall of our first parents, with all the woe that has resulted, he charges upon the Creator, leading men to look upon God as the author of sin, and suffering, and death. Jesus was to unveil this deception. As one of us He was to give an example of obedience. . . . He endured every trial to which we are subject. And He exercised in His own behalf no power that is not freely offered to us.”1

“That time will soon come, and we shall have to keep hold of the strong arm of Jehovah; for all these great signs and mighty wonders of the devil are designed to deceive God’s people and overthrow them. Our minds must be stayed upon God, and we must not fear the fear of the wicked, that is, fear what they fear, and reverence what they reverence, but be bold and valiant for the truth. Could our eyes be opened, we should see forms of evil angels around us, trying to invent some new way to annoy and destroy us. And we should also see angels of God guarding us from their power; for God’s watchful eye is ever over Israel for good, and He will protect and save His people, if they put their trust in Him. When the enemy shall come in like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord will lift up a standard against him.”2

“Live the life of faith day by day. Do not become anxious and distressed about the time of trouble, and thus have a time of trouble beforehand. Do not keep thinking, ‘I am afraid I shall not stand in the great testing day.’ You are to live for the present, for this day only. Tomorrow is not yours. Today you are to maintain the victory over self. Today you are to live a life of prayer. Today you are to fight the good fight of faith. Today you are to believe that God blesses you. And as you gain the victory over darkness and unbelief, you will meet the requirements of the Master, and will become a blessing to those around you.”3

**React**

`1. How has Jesus disproved Satan’s assertion that God has unfair laws? What does that mean practically for us?`

`2. How should we view the time of trouble, when Satan shall use his strongest deceptions? How can we be ready?`

1. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 24.
2. Ellen G. White, Early Writings, p. 60.
3. Ellen G. White, Historical Sketches of the Foreign Missions of the Seventh-day Adventists, pp. 142, 143.

_Callie Williams, Columbia, Maryland, USA_