---
title:  Lying Wonders
date:   29/05/2018
---

**Evidence**: 2 Thess. 2:9, 10

Thessalonica was a major city of commerce, welcoming a lot of traffic as it connected Rome to the East.1 Because the city attracted people from far and near, it was inevitable that the church in this city would encounter varying beliefs—most of which acknowledged the supernatural.

The word wonder is derived from the Greek word terasin or teras, which means “a miraculous wonder, done to elicit a reaction from onlookers, an extraordinary event with supernatural effect on all witnessing it.”2 On two occasions this Greek word is used in favor of God, but in the context of 2 Thessalonians 2:9, the adjective lying is used. Thus miracles or wonders are not limited to God and His followers, for in the last days there will be “spirits of devils, working miracles” (Rev. 16:14). So how do we distinguish between the wonders of God and lying wonders? Spiritual discernment is needed. The Spirit of Truth (the Holy Spirit) guides us to discern between good and evil with the Word of God as our ultimate standard (Isa. 8:20).

In the end times, “all power, signs, and lying wonders, and with all unrighteous deception” (2 Thess. 2:9, 10, NKJV) will be witnessed. Paul needed to communicate this message to a church surrounded by beliefs not founded in Jesus. Today, we, too, are prone to these influences (Rev. 12:12). The devil is well aware that his time on earth is soon expiring; thus, he goes to great lengths to deceive and lead people astray.

Yes, there will be extraordinary marvels, things that shock us and maybe even distract us. But Jesus, like a loving parent, warns us—not to scare us but to prepare us. May our senses be unmoved by the “lying wonders” but focused on the true object of our attention: Jesus Christ and His truth. Let us focus on our first love, our first wonder, and the source of all true magnificent wonders, that we may receive the love and be saved.

**React**

`1. What are some practical ways we can focus on Jesus, in spite of the lying wonders that surround us?`

`2. Are there lying wonders that we can distinguish in the present day?`

1. “The Birth and Growth of a Church,” Bible.org, accessed January 18, 2017, https://bible.org /seriespage/1-birth-and-growth-church.
2. HELPS Word-studies, Bible Hub, s.v. Greek: “5059. teras,” accessed January 18, 2017, http://biblehub.com/greek/5059.htm.

_Davina Buruchara, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA_