---
title:  Deceived
date:   30/05/2018
---

**How-to**: Gen. 3:1–7; Rev 12:3, 7–9

The Bible warns us about being deceived by Satan. It is his very nature either to get us into trouble or to make us complacent with the way things are. That’s essentially the current condition of the Laodicean church.

After deceiving the angels to join him in his rebellion against the government of God, Satan gave his earliest, and perhaps clearest, example of how his method really works when he deceived Eve (Gen. 3:13b).

After finding herself separated from her husband, Eve was enticed and seduced by the words of the serpent. To the skeptical and cunning question “Has God indeed said . . .?” Eve somewhat defensively responded with her version of what God had commanded in Genesis 2:16, 17. Moreover, upon entering into a conversation with the serpent, she found herself to be enraptured by the promise of knowledge and power that she would gain after eating from the fruit. Sadly, Eve chose to distrust God’s command and thus believed a lie. Eve’s deception included taste, vision, and intellect.

So how can we prevent, avoid, and meet Satan’s deceptions today?

To know error, you have to know truth. God’s Word, the Bible, is the most reliable source for truth (John 17:17; Prov. 30:5). Although the world may provide many books that can inform, only the Bible has the power to transform your life. It is as easy as reading a short portion of His Word every day.

To combat deception you have to be connected to the power source. As depicted in Ephesians 6:10–17, God calls us to put on His armor, and after putting on the armor we ought to pray (verse 18). Having all the knowledge about God’s Word and doing all the “right” things will not be sufficient unless you stay connected to God in prayer.

To meet deception and overcome it, you have to be willing to make yourself vulnerable to God’s correction. You can’t correct what you aren’t willing to confront. Satan’s deceptions are so cunning that one of the first natural reactions is to deny or blame others for our condition (just like Adam and Eve blamed each other and God after they sinned). But as we meet temptations, our heavenly Father wants us to overcome them with His help. When you are weak, He is strong (2 Cor. 12:9).

**React**

`1. How have you been able to detect and avoid Satan’s deceptions?`

`2. Read Revelation 12:11. What does this promise mean to you in light of overcoming Satan’s deceptions?`

_Esther Bettina Nanasi, Saginaw, Michigan, USA_