---
title:  Will I Be Deceived?
date:   31/05/2018
---

**Opinion**: Matt. 4:1–11; Rev. 12:9

How good is the devil at deception? Let’s look at the devil’s best attempted deception ever.

The devil tried to get Jesus to prove His identity. In the first temptation, the devil started with, “If you are the son of God . . . ” The devil was trying to get Jesus to prove Himself just by saying “If.” Many of us have gone down horrible paths all because of an if. If you are man enough . . . or if you really love me . . . or if you’re not scared . . . We wish to be seen a certain way, and we even end up trying to prove to the devil that we are, in fact, children of God. You are what you are; you have nothing to prove to anyone.

The devil tried to get Jesus to prove the power of God. The second temptation tackles faith versus presumption. Faith claims the promise and obeys; presumption claims the promise without obeying. Presumption is a different kind of if; it asks individuals to prove the power of God—to put ourselves in danger so that God delivers us. Presumption is getting into a romantic relationship with an unbeliever, trusting that God will change them, for instance.

The devil tried to get Jesus to do the work of God without the character of God. In the third temptation, the devil offered Jesus what He was hoping to save—the kingdoms of the world. The temptation lay in the fact that Jesus could get what he wanted—without suffering and pain, without difficulty—if he would only worship the devil. He tells us that we can flirt-to-convert, we can lie to win people to Jesus. It is to pass with top grades, while cheating— achieving what God wants us to do without trusting in God’s way. I call them Judas tactics because Judas wanted to get Jesus in the presidential office of Jerusalem; however, he chose to act dirty to achieve it.

A simple prayer suffices to fight the devil: “Lord, I’ve seen you fight the devil in ____ before; do it again in my life, help me to ____.” Whether identity, presumption, or Judas tactics, Jesus can beat the deceiver.

**React**

`1. In which of the three areas discussed does the devil attack you the most?`

`2. What do you think are the best strategies against the devil’s deceptions?`

`3. What do you think about the short prayer at the end? Do you think Jesus can help us overcome anything that the devil throws at us?`

_Rodney Matambo, Anasco Puerto Rico._