---
title:  Deception Defeated
date:   01/06/2018
---

**Exploration**: Gen. 3:1–7; Ps. 146:4; Matt. 4:1–11; Rev. 12:9

**Conclude**

This week’s lesson brings to our attention the fact that we are living in a time when Satan will attempt to deceive us now more than ever “because he knows that he has a short time” (Rev. 12:12, NKJV). However, we are also reminded that we need to look unto Jesus, who has already overcome the deceptions of Satan (cf. Heb. 4:15, 16). Thus we have the hope that we, too, can overcome and that Satan’s deception can be destroyed through faith in Jesus Christ.

**Consider**

- Drawing, sketching, or painting the following three scenes from history: (1) deception in heaven: Satan deceiving the angels; (2) deception on earth: Satan deceiving Eve in the Garden of Eden; (3) deception defeated: Satan’s attempted deception being overcome by Jesus relying on God’s Word in the wilderness. These scenes should remind us that Jesus has gained the victory and can help us overcome Satan’s deceptions as well.
- Making a table to compare popular beliefs about what happens after death and what the Bible says happens after death. Are there huge differences, or are there subtle differences? What impact does each understanding of life after death have on how people live their daily lives? Why?
- Debating with a friend about why God can use only truth, while Satan can use truth and lies, both flattery and deceit?
- Singing the hymns “Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus” (290) and “Faith Is the Victory” (608) in the Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal. Reflect on the messages of these songs when we face trials and end-time deceptions.
- Journaling about other stories in the Bible or from your own personal experience when deception was a means to bring about a desired result. What were the outcomes?
- Observing insects that can camouflage or appear to be something else. Then compare and contrast reasons why insects at times disguise themselves and why Satan would want to disguise himself.

**Connect**

1. John 1:7–11; 2 Corinthians 11:14, 15; 1 Peter 2:8–10; Revelation 12:7– 12, 17; 20:10.
2. Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, chapter 1, “Why Was Sin Permitted?”; The Great Controversy, chapter 33, “The First Great Deception.”

_Emely Umaña, Centreville, Virginia, USA_