---
title:  Meeting In Galilee
date:   22/12/2024
---

Read John 21:1–19. What important truths do these verses show us? What do these Bible truths teach us about God’s mercy? Why do we need to empty our hearts of all pride?

John 20 ends with the reason that John wrote the Book of John. We may think John should end his book there, right? But John wrote one more chapter. Chapter 21 begins with some of the followers who are back in Galilee. Peter suggests that the followers should spend the night fishing on the lake. But they catch no fish that night.

In the morning, a Stranger stands on the beach. The Stranger tells the followers to throw their nets off the right side of the boat. The followers do as the Stranger tells them to do. Then the followers catch so many fish that they can’t pull the net back into the boat! This same miracle happened at the start of their work with Jesus (read Luke 5:1–11). When this miracle happens, John right away knows that the Stranger is Jesus. John tells Peter, who jumps in the water and swims to the shore.

In John 21, Jesus asks Peter three questions. All three questions are about Peter’s love for his Master. Before Jesus died on the cross, Peter swore that he would die for Jesus (John 13:37). Then Jesus told Peter that he would reject Jesus three times (John 13:38). But at this meeting in Galilee, Peter doesn’t make himself the most important part of the conversation with Jesus. Peter makes Jesus the most important part. Peter says, “ ‘Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you!’ ” (John 21:17, ERV).

When Jesus asks Peter if he loves Him, Jesus uses the word “agapaō,” which means “to love” in the Greek language. Peter always answers with a different Greek word for “to love.” This word is “phileō,” which means “to love” but as a friend. So, some people say that John writes “phileō” to show that Peter didn’t learn how to love as God loves.

But this idea is not correct. Peter answers the way he does because his heart is empty of all pride. We also see that Jesus accepts Peter’s answer because the Lord gives him back his work to do for God. When we work for God, our hearts must be empty of all pride. Then we will look to Jesus and not to ourselves for strength, wisdom, and help to do His work.