---
title:  Keep Your Eyes On Jesus
date:   23/12/2024
---

`Read about the conversation between Jesus and Peter in John 21:20–22. What question did Peter ask Jesus? What did Jesus say to Peter? How did Jesus’ answer help Peter?`

Jesus gave Peter back his work and told him, “ ‘Follow me’ ” (John 21:19). Peter follows Jesus in his heart and down the beach. Then Peter turns and sees John following Jesus, too. So, Peter asks Jesus about John: “ ‘Lord, what will happen to him?’ ” (John 21:21, NIrV).

When Jesus gave Peter back his work, the Lord also told Peter how he would die (John 21:18). Peter wanted to know about John’s death, too. Jesus tells Peter not to worry about another follower. Peter needed to think about following Jesus.

`Read John 21:23–25. How did Christians during New Testament times misunderstand Jesus’ words in these verses? How did John correct their misunderstanding?`

People misunderstand what Jesus meant when He said, “ ‘Maybe I want him to live until I come. That should not matter to you. You follow me!’ ” (John 21:22, ERV). People thought that Jesus was saying that He would come back before John died. As time passed and John grew old, people got worried about what would happen if Jesus didn’t come back before John died. (Of course, that is what happened. John died.) John explains this misunderstanding. He says that Jesus was not making a promise about the future. Jesus was saying that He had the power to make happen whatever He wanted to make happen because He was God.

Let us keep our attention on Jesus, not on other people. This idea is very powerful. Jesus is our Savior and no one else. People will disappoint you and may hurt you, too. But Jesus will never let us down.

Our studies for Tuesday through Thursday will talk about the idea of understanding the Bible. When we understand the Bible, we will know Jesus better and know how to follow Him. Jesus is our Master and our Guide.

`How often do other people disappoint you or hurt you? What lessons did you learn from those experiences?`