---
title:  Light And Dark
date:   24/12/2024
---

`Read John 1:4–10; John 3:19–21; John 5:35; John 8:12; John 9:5; John 11:9, 10; and John 12:35. What two different things are these verses talking about? Why is the answer so important to our understanding Bible truth?`

Life on this earth is filled with sin. That is why John says this earth is a dark place. People don’t want to know Bible truth. On our own, we can’t understand God or know who He is.

“People on their own can’t know or understand God. ‘That knowledge is higher than the heavens and deeper than the place of death [the grave]. So what can you do? How can you learn it all?’ Job 11:8 [ERV]. When God adopts us as His children, He shows us who He is. ‘No eye has seen the things God has made ready for those who love him. No ear has heard about them. No person’s heart has ever thought of them.’ [1 Corinthians 2:9, WE]. ‘God has shown these things to us through [with] his Spirit.’ [1 Corinthians 2:10, NIrV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 412, adapted.

Jesus “told us plainly about God” (John 1:18, WE). The words written as “told us” come from the Greek word “exēgeomai.” In the Greek language, “exēgeomai” means “to explain.” John shows us that Jesus is the messenger from heaven. Jesus explains what it means to know God. Jesus is the only Person who can help us to know God.

`How does Jesus talk about the Jewish spiritual ­leaders and their faith? Read John 8:42–44 for the answer.`

When people don’t follow Bible truth, they follow their own ideas. But real Christians must accept that Jesus is the Truth and the Light. We must follow Him in our understanding of the Bible. Satan “is a liar” (John 8:44, ERV). If we aren’t careful, we will be in danger of doing the same thing the Jewish leaders did. So, we must obey God. We must give ourselves to Jesus in faith. Or we may read the Bible and say that it means what we want it to mean. This mistake is easier to make than we think.