---
title:  True And False Teachings About God
date:   25/12/2024
---

`Read the story in John 4:46–54. Why did the leader in this story come to Jesus? What caused this man’s problem?`

This man came to Jesus for help. But before the man came, he decided to believe in Jesus only if Jesus healed his child. So, we can say that this man’s ideas about God came from human doubts and fears. Human ideas about God are limited. So, human ideas should not become the reason for our beliefs about the Bible and its teachings.

When we believe what the Bible teaches, we put God and the Bible first (John 4:48; John 6:14, 15; 2 Timothy 3:16). We must accept the Bible with faith. Then the Bible will explain its teachings to us. The Bible helps us understand the Bible. Human ideas must not control our understanding of the Bible. The Bible must control our thinking and what we, as humans, believe and accept as truth.

If we believe Jesus and His teachings, then we will believe the Bible and its teachings (John 5:46, 47). “ ‘If you continue to accept and obey my teaching, you are really my followers’ ” (John 8:31, ERV). If we doubt the Bible, Jesus’ teachings can’t live in us (John 5:38). “ ‘But there is a judge for all those who refuse to believe in me and do not accept what I say. The message I have spoken will judge them on the last day. That is because what I taught was not from myself. The Father who sent me told me what to say and what to teach’ ” (John 12:48, 49, ERV).

What does it mean to “hear” God’s Word, the Bible? When we hear God’s Word, we obey Him. So, hearing is more than just knowing information. Hearing means that we do the things that God asks us to do. “ ‘People who really want to do what God wants will know that my teaching comes from God. They will know that this teaching is not my own’ ” (John 7:17, ERV).

When we obey God and do the things He asks us to do, we show that we love God. “Jesus said, ‘The one who loves Me will obey My teaching. My Father will love him. We will come to him and live with him’ ” (John 14:23, NLV).

`How does our obedience to God show our love for Him?`