---
title:  Living In Jesus
date:   26/12/2024
---

`Read Jesus’ announcement in John 12:32. In what ways does this announcement show the control and power that Jesus has in heaven and on earth?`

As we already saw, the Book of John shows us Jesus. But we must be willing to know God and obey Him. In the Book of John, people who meet Jesus must decide. They must decide to accept Bible truth. Or they will choose to reject it. Many people met Jesus and made choices about His teachings: Nicodemus, the Samaritan woman at the well, the royal leader, the man at the Pool of Bethesda, the 5,000 men who ate the bread and the fish, Jesus’ brothers, the Jewish spiritual leaders, the man born blind, Mary and Martha, and Pilate.

Man-made Bible teachings start with human ideas to decide what is Bible truth about God. Man-made teachings about the Bible led people away from God in the past and will continue to do so in the future (read Revelation 14:1–12). In the end times, people will put human wisdom above God’s wisdom. Then they will try to force false worship on everyone on earth.

`What is the secret to spiritual growth and health? Read John 15:1–11 for the answer.`

The secret to success is for us to stay connected to Jesus. Jesus is God’s Word, the Bible, in Person. Jesus is the Bread of Life, the Light for all people, the Door for God’s sheep, the Good Shepherd, the Resurrection or waking up from the dead, and the Life. Jesus is also the Way to God, the Truth, and the True or Real Vine.

As we saw already, our Three-in-One God is named the Godhead. The Godhead includes the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The Godhead and Their Word, the Bible, will lead us to Them. “God talks to us in His Word. We will hear many voices talking to us. But Jesus warned us to be careful of the ones who say, Here is the Savior. Or there is the Savior. How will we know if someone teaches Bible truth? We must compare everything they say with the Bible.”—Ellen G. White, The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, April 3, 1888, adapted. Then we must give up any idea that the Bible shows us is false or wrong.