---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   27/12/2024
---

“The angels of God are always traveling from earth to heaven and from heaven to earth. Jesus did many miracles. He healed the sick and suffering. God worked with angels to do the miracles that Jesus did on this earth. In the same way, God gives us every blessing because of Jesus. The angels bring these blessings to us. When Jesus became a man, He joined Himself to sinners. Because Jesus is God, He can go to God’s throne for us. And so, Jesus is the way for people to communicate with God, and the way for God to communicate with people.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 143, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about all the different stories in the Book of John. Which story shows you God’s love the most? Share with the class why you think that story is so powerful.`

`How should someone search for Bible truth?`

`Why is it so hard to let the Bible, and not self, decide what is truth? Will our human thinking always get in the way of how we understand and explain the Bible? Why must we understand this weakness in ourselves? Why is it important to empty our hearts of all pride when we study the Bible?`

`The history of Western Christianity is filled with terrible stories about what happens when people use the Bible truth to support false ideas or to control other people. What are some of these examples that you can think of from history? What lesson can we learn from them today?`

`Explain the Book of John in your own words. What is the book’s most important message for us today?`