---
title:  The Law As Teacher
date:  10/10/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Deuteronomy 31:9–13; Deuteronomy 31:14–27; Joshua 1:7, 8; Luke 2:51, 52.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul and strength’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:5, ICB).

PAUL WARNS THE GALATIANS against trying to earn God’s favor by their good works. Paul writes: “Does this mean that the law works against God’s promises? Of course not. The law was never God’s way of giving new life to people. If it were, then we could be made right with God by following the law” (Galatians 3:21, ERV). Of course, if any law can “give life,” then God’s law is the only law that can. But Paul says that God’s law can’t give life to sinners. Why? “The Scriptures [the Bible] put the whole world [all the people on the earth] in prison under the control of sin, so that the only way for people to get what God promised would [will] be through [by] faith in Jesus Christ. It is given to those who believe in him” (Galatians 3:22, ERV).

But if the law can’t give life to sinners, what good is it? True, the law shows us our need of God’s forgiveness and mercy. But does the law only show us our sins?

No. The law also shows us the way of life. The way of life is found only in Jesus. True education should show us our need for God’s forgiveness and mercy. True education should also show us why we must obey Jesus. This week, we will study the part that God’s law has in Christian education. As we study, let’s see what the law can teach us about faith, mercy, and God’s love for sinners.