---
title:  TO LOVE AND TO FEAR GOD
date:   11/10/2020
---

In Deuteronomy, Moses records his last words to Israel before they go into the Promised Land. But before they do, Moses has some clear words and lessons for God’s people.

`Read Deuteronomy 31:9–13. What does it mean in these verses to “fear” the Lord?`

God did not want His people to forget His law. So, He gave them many ways to remember this law. This proves that God is a patient Teacher. God teaches the same lesson again and again. He also sends His prophets, or special messengers, to teach His people. God gives His prophets special messages to share with Israel. Much of the Old Testament is about God trying to teach His people to follow the right way of life.

Do you see in Deuteronomy 31:9–13 how Moses says that Israel’s future children must learn the law? Moses says this education has two parts. First, the children will hear the law. Then they will “ ‘learn to fear [respect] the Lord your God’ ” (Deuteronomy 31:13, NLV).

First, the children listen and learn God’s Word. Then they learn to fear, or respect, God. So, we can understand that respect for God must be learned. Moses hints in these verses that knowledge and respect are things we learn over time. Just because we learn about God does not mean we will respect Him. We must learn respect for God.

Also, what does “fear God” mean when Moses tells the people to “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul and strength’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:5, ICB)? Maybe the best way to explain what “fear God” means here is to compare it to the way a child loves and fears a good father. The father shows his love and care by saying what he means and meaning what he says. When the child does wrong, the father punishes the child. Yes, we can, and must, love and fear God at the same time. They are not two different ideas. The more we learn about God, the more we love Him because He is good. At the same time, the more we learn about God, the more we fear, or respect, Him. Why? Because we see God is worthy of our fear, or respect. He is holy. We are sinners. Because of God’s love and mercy, we are not destroyed.

`How is it possible to love and fear God at the same time?`

_The more we learn about God, the more we fear, or respect, Him._
