---
title:  A WITNESS AGAINST YOU
date:   12/10/2020
---

Moses knows he will die soon. After his death, the Israelites will go into the Promised Land in Canaan. Moses also knows that the Israelites will turn away from God in their hearts soon after they start living in Canaan.

`Read Deuteronomy 31:14–27. What does Moses do before he dies? What was Moses worried about? How does he take care of the problem in these verses?`

Moses acts the same as a teacher who gets ready for the substitute teacher who will take his job. Moses knows that his “students” have not behaved in class. He is not foolish enough to believe that God’s people will not sin when he is gone. So, Moses orders the Levites to put the Book of the Law next to the ark. Then the book will become a “witness.” A witness is a living person. In what way is the Book of the Law a witness? When Moses says “witness,” he talks about the Book of the Law as if it is a person. So, the Book of the Law is a witness to God’s people about the evil that is in their hearts.

`The law acts as a “witness against” the Israelites (Deuteronomy 31:26, ERV). How does the law show us that we need God’s grace? Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. What does Romans 3:19–23 tell us?`

In Deuteronomy 31:19 (NIrV), God tells Moses, “ ‘I want you to write down a song and teach it to the Israelites. Have them sing it. It will be my witness against them.’ ” Here we see that the Bible talks about this song the same way that it talked about the Book of the Law. God says that the song is the same as a witness. In the same way, the Book of the Law is a witness. So, both the song and the Book of the Law teach us the same as living persons teach us. This song can help people see what is wrong in their hearts.

`We should want to obey God’s law with all the strength God gives us. How does God’s law act as a “witness against” us? What does this witness teach us about our need of the Good News about Jesus in our lives?`

_Moses talks about the Book of the Law as if it were a living person who can show men the evil in their hearts._
