---
title:  YOU WILL HAVE SUCCESS IN EVERYTHING YOU DO
date:   13/10/2020
---

The Bible tells us about the good things that will happen when we know and obey God’s law.

`Read Joshua 1:7, 8. What does the Lord say to Joshua in these verses? Why are the rules in these verses important for our lives today?`

The Lord tells Joshua as he goes into Canaan: “ ‘Be strong and brave. Be sure to obey all the teachings my servant Moses gave you. If you follow them exactly, you will be successful [have success] in everything you do’ ” (Joshua 1:7, ICB).

The Bible says that success comes from our obedience. This idea is different from what most people today think about success. Many people today believe that success comes from hard work, new ideas, and a lot of skill. You must take risks in many jobs to be a big success.

But in God’s eyes, success is something different.

`Read Revelation 12:17; Revelation 14:12; Romans 1:5; Romans 16:26; and James 2:10–12. What are these verses saying to us today about why we must obey God’s law? True, we are not saved by God’s law. But why is it important that we keep it anyway?`

As Christians, we believe in the Bible. The Bible commands us to obey God’s law. Breaking God’s law can lead only to pain, suffering, and everlasting death. Each one of us has felt the pain that comes from sinning and breaking God’s law. God promises His people Israel during Bible times that they will have success if they follow His law. It is the same for us today. God’s law is the center of Christian education. God’s law shows us how to live with faith and trust in God’s grace. Grace, as we know, is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin.

How has sin caused you suffering and pain? What have you learned from your experience that you can share with people so that they will not make the same mistakes?

_Who has not felt the pain that comes from sinning and breaking God’s law?_
