---
title:  LIVING ON AN EARTH RUINED BY SIN
date:   14/10/2020
---

When we obey God’s law, we will enjoy many wonderful blessings. The Bible shows us that God blesses people who obey Him. Again and again, the Lord tells His people Israel that if they obey His law, they will have success. Joshua is a good example of success. Joshua carefully obeys God’s law. God blesses Joshua with strong leadership skills. As we see, Joshua is a good leader.

`Read 2 Chronicles 31:20, 21. Think about the message in these verses. Why did Hezekiah succeed?`

As teachers, we must show our students that obeying God is an important part of their lives. But our students are not stupid. They will see the truth. Some people who obey God suffer awful things in life. How do we explain this?

We cannot explain it. We live on an earth ruined by sin and evil. Everyone living on this earth is in the middle of the worldwide war between good and evil. No one can escape being hurt by this war.

`Read Mark 6:25–27; Job 1; Job 2; 2 Corinthians 11:23–29. What do these verses teach us about why bad things happen to good people who love and obey God?`

For sure, good and loyal people who love God have not always enjoyed success in this life. What exactly does “success” mean? This question is important because we must teach our children and students why they should obey God’s law. Let us see what the psalmist has to say. “One day in your Temple is better than a thousand days anywhere else. Serving as a guard at the gate of my God’s house is better than living in the homes of the wicked” (Psalm 84:10, ERV). In the eyes of most people, people who obey God do not always have “success.” Not right now. So, it will not do any good to tell our students that obedience always leads to success in this life.

`Read Hebrews 11:13–16. How do these verses help us understand why people who obey God suffer in this life?`

_Again and again, the Lord tells His people that if they obey His law, they will have success._
