---
title:  Jesus, Our Example 
date:  15/10/2020
---

Jesus Christ is the Son of God. On earth, He was the only human who ever lived a perfect life of obedience to God’s law. Jesus obeys so that He can be our substitute and our example.

`Read these verses: Luke 2:51, 52; Philippians 2:8; Hebrews 5:8; John 8:28, 29. How do these verses help us remember Jesus’ perfect obedience during His life?`

Maybe John says it best when he writes this: “If we say we live in God, we must live the way Jesus lived” (1 John 2:6, ERV). We must look at the life of Christ and His work on earth. When we do, we will see that Jesus pleases His Father in heaven by His obedience. Jesus obeys God’s laws His whole life. He does everything that God’s special messengers promised He will do.

God tells Moses to write down His law so it will be a witness to Israel. In the same way, Jesus is the living example of this witness. He showed a life of obedience to His followers, holy men and women, and sinners. So now, we have more than just a set of rules to follow. We have the living example of Jesus to follow too.

As teachers, what better example can we show our students than Jesus and how He obeyed His Father?

“Some Christians believe that having faith means they no longer need to obey God. But that is not faith. That is belief in a lie. ‘You have been saved by grace because you believed’ Ephesians 2:8 [ERV]. ‘If it [faith] doesn’t cause us to do something, it’s dead’ James 2:17 [NIrV]. Jesus talks about what He will do before He comes to this earth: ‘My God, I am happy to do whatever you want. I never stop thinking about your teachings’ Psalm 40:8 [ERV]. Right before Jesus goes back to heaven, He says: ‘ “I have obeyed my Father’s commands, and he continues to love me.” ’ John 15:10 [ERV]. ‘If we obey what God has told us to do, then we are sure that we know him. . . . If we say we live in God, we must live the way Jesus lived.’ 1 John 2:3–6 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 61, adapted.

`What can you do to follow Jesus’ example in all parts of your life? How can this help you be a better teacher to other people? We know that what we do is more powerful than what we say. Why is this true about our Christian witness?`