---
title:  Further Thought
date:  16/10/2020
---

“God made us and saves us because He loves us. True education also starts with God’s love. This idea is made clear in God’s law. God’s law is the guide for our lives. The first and most important commandment is: ‘ “ ‘Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Love him with all your strength and with all your mind.’ ” ’ Luke 10:27 [NIrV]. God knows everything. He has no beginning or end. To love Him with all our strength, mind, and heart means to develop every skill that we have. It means that the whole body, mind, and spirit will become holy. God will live in us.

“The second commandment also is about love. ‘ “ ‘Love your neighbor the same as you love yourself.’ ” ’ Matthew 22:39 [ERV]. The law of love asks us to give our bodies, minds, and spirits to serve God and other humans. This work makes us a blessing to people. At the same time, the work we do for other people blesses us more than it blesses them. It teaches us not to be selfish. All true education is unselfish. As we serve other people with unselfish hearts, we develop every part of our mind and spirit. We become more and more the way God is. Unselfish work gets us ready for heaven. By serving people, we show that we accept heaven into our hearts.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 16, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`God commanded the Israelites to love and fear, or respect, Him. We are also commanded to do the same. (Matthew 22:37; Revelation 14:7). In class, talk more about how we can love and fear God. Also answer the question: Why are these two commandments to love and fear God in agreement with each other?`

`What does the Bible say about being a good example to your church and to your family?`

`Obedience is important. But why doesn’t our obedience save us?`

`Read Psalm 119. How many times does the psalm talk about these ideas: obedience, freedom, laws, rules, and commands? What does the writer of the Psalm want to teach us about these important ideas?`