---
title:  THE MAN FROM UZ
date:   18/12/2016
---

THE MAN FROM UZ

(Job 1:1, 8)

`Read Job 1:1 and Job 1:8. What do these verses tell us about the character of Job?`

Job’s friends tell him all through their conversations (talks) with him that he must have done something wrong for all this evil to come upon him. But the opposite appears to be true. It is Job’s goodness and faithfulness that make him the special target of Satan.  

How good and how faithful is Job? First, the verses tell us that he is “perfect.” This word does not have to mean “sinless.” Only Jesus is. The person who is “perfect” in God’s mind is the person who has reached the level of growth Heaven (God) expects of him or her at any given time. The Hebrew word for “perfect,” tam, “is equal to the Greek word teleios, which is often translated ‘perfect’ in the [New Testament]. But it is better translated ‘full grown’ or ‘mature.’ ”—Adapted from The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 3, page 499. Job’s later experiences show that he has not reached the full perfection of character. He is faithful and upright, but he is still growing.

Second, the verses say he is “upright.” The word means “straight,” “level,” “just,” “right.” Job lives in a way that he could be called “a good citizen.”

Third, the verse says Job “feared God.” The Old Testament pictures “fearing” God as part of what it means to be a faithful Israelite. But these words also are used in the New Testament for Gentiles (non-Jews) who faithfully serve the God of Israel (read Acts 10:2, 22). 

Finally, Job “eschewed,” or avoided, evil. This description of Job’s character is supported by the Lord Himself, when He says to Satan, “ ‘Have you thought about my servant Job? There isn’t [is not] anyone on earth like him. He is honest. He does what is right. He has respect for me and avoids evil’ ” (Job 1:8, NIrV). 

In the end, Job is a man of God whose faith is shown by the kind of life he lives. And he truly bears witness “to angels, and to men” (1 Corinthians 4:9) about what a person can be in Christ.

`If the book of Job were about you, how would the opening line read? “There was a ___________ in the land of ___________ who was ____________ and ____________ and who ____________ God and ____________ evil.”`