---
title:  A PATH LIKE SWEET CREAM
date:   19/12/2016
---

### A PATH LIKE SWEET CREAM

(Job 29:8–17)

Job works hard to understand the terrible events that happen to him. He thinks about his past and how he has lived and how good it has been for him. Talking about the earlier days, Job says of that time, “ ‘The path in front of me was like sweet cream’ ” (Job 29:6, NIrV). 

For example, in Job 29:2, Job talks about the time that “ ‘God [has] watched over me’ ” (NKJV). The Hebrew word for “watched over” comes from a common word used all through the Old Testament to talk about God’s watchcare for His people (read Psalm 91:11; Numbers 6:24). No doubt, Job had the good life. The important thing, too, is that he knows that he had the good life.

`Read Job 29:8–17. What do these verses tell us about how others judge Job and how he treats those who are going through a hard time?`

We can read here just how much Job is respected. The wording about Job’s taking his “ ‘seat in the open square’ ” (Job 29:7, NKJV) suggests a local government. Job clearly has an important part in it. Such seats usually would be given to the senior and respected members of the society. Among them Job is honored highly.

But we find out that even the “lowest” members of society love and respect him. The poor, the dying, the blind, the widows, the fatherless, and the lame—those people who have not been blessed as Job has been blessed. But they are the very ones to whom Job gives help and comfort.     

“God has given in the Bible a picture of a successful man—Job. His life was in the truest sense a success. He was a man whom both heaven and earth delighted to honor.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Education, page 142.

Verses like these and others (as we will find) show us why Job has been a very successful person in every way. Both God and people have a high opinion of him.

`It is easy to be kind and respectful to the rich and the powerful and the famous. But how do you treat those who have nothing to offer you at all?`