---
title:  HEART AND EYES
date:   20/12/2016
---

### HEART AND EYES

(Job 31:1–23)

At first glance (look), in the verses below, it might sound as if Job were boasting. He seems to be showing off how holy and good he is. This attitude (thought or feeling) is not the kind that the Bible approves (read Matthew 23). But that is not what is happening here with Job. Again, it is important to remember the theme of the story: Job is being told that his past is the cause of his suffering. But Job knows that this thought simply cannot be true and that nothing he has done has made him deserve what has come upon him. So he spends this time remembering the kind of life he has lived and the kind of person he is. 

`Read Job 31:1–23. What else does Job say about how he lived before the terrible events happened to him?` 

Notice, too, that Job is not dealing only with his outward actions. The verse “ ‘my heart followed my eyes’ ” (Job 31:7, NASB) shows that Job understands the deeper meaning of holiness, the deeper meaning of right and wrong and of God’s law. Job clearly knows that God cares about the heart, about our thoughts, and about our actions (read 1 Samuel 16:7; Exodus 20:17; Matthew 5:28). Job knows that it is wrong to lust after a woman just as it is wrong to commit adultery with her. (Again, what powerful proof that people already knew who God was long before the Lord called the nation of Israel to be His covenant4 people and to witness of Him.) 

`Read what Job says in Job 31:13–15. Why is this message so important?` 

Here Job shows an amazing (wonderful) understanding, especially for his time, that all humans are equal. The world in Bible times was not a place where people understood and followed universal rights and universal laws. People groups thought of themselves as greater, or better, than others. But here Job shows just how much he understands about human rights and that these rights come from the God who made us. In some ways, Job is ahead of his time and ours too.


##### DEFINITIONS

2. **commit**—to do (something that is illegal or harmful).
3. **adultery**—sex between a married person and someone who is not that person’s wife or husband.
4. **covenant**—dealing with the agreement and promise between God and His people.