---
title:  A HOUSE ON THE ROCK
date:   21/12/2016
---

### A HOUSE ON THE ROCK
 
(Job 31:24–34)

`Read Job 31:24–34. What else can we learn about Job?`

No wonder the Lord says what He does about the life and character of Job. Here is a man who clearly lives out his faith. He is a man whose works show how really good his relationship is with God. His faith also makes his complaint all the more bitter: Why is this happening to me? And it makes the arguments of his friends appear as cheap and useless as they really are.

But there is a deeper and more important message that we can take from Job’s faithful and obedient life. Notice how closely his life in the past is tied to how he acts when the terrible events happen to him later. It is not by chance or luck or strong will that Job refuses to “ ‘curse God, and die’ ” (Job 2:9). No, it is because of Job’s many years of faithfulness and obedience to God. They give him the faith and character that help him to trust in the Lord, no matter what happens to him.

`Read Matthew 7:22–27. What is found in these verses that makes clear the reason why Job stays faithful?`

The secret of Job’s important victory is found in all the “smaller” victories he had before (read also Luke 16:10). It is Job’s strong faith that gives him the strength to refuse to compromise.5 What we find in Job is an example of what the book of James says about works in a life of faith: “So you see that what he [Abraham] believed and what he did were working together. What he did made his faith complete” (James 2:22, NIrV). What an important principle (rule) of the Christian life is shown in this verse. In the story of Job we find him living out this principle in a powerful way. Job is made of the same flesh and bone as all of us. But through the grace (mercy and forgiveness) of God and his own faithful choices, Job lives a life of faithful obedience to God.

`What choices do you need to make in order to live as faithfully as Job does?`

##### DEFINITIONS

5. **compromise**—a change that makes something worse and that is not done for a good reason.