---
title:  THE GREAT WISDOM OF GOD
date:   22/12/2016
---

### THE GREAT WISDOM OF GOD

(Matthew 5:16)

Earlier in the book of Job, amid the back-and-forth discussions between the characters, Eliphaz the Temanite says: “ ‘Job, what pleasure would it give the Mighty One [God] if you were right? What would he get if you were completely honest?’ ” (Job 22:3, NIrV). That is a very puzzling question. It is especially true when we know about what is happening behind the scenes in heaven. Yes, it is a pleasure to God if Job is righteous. And yes, again, it is gain to God if Job lives blamelessly. And this is true both with Job and with all of those who claim to be followers of the Lord.

`Read Matthew 5:16. How do those words help to answer the question that Eliphaz throws at Job?`

The important issue in the book of Job is, Would Job be faithful? Satan says Job would not. But God says he would. Job’s faithfulness then gives God an advantage in this battle with Satan.

But this story is just a small part of a bigger picture. The first angel’s message tells us, in part, to “give glory [praise and honor]” to God (Revelation 14:7). And Jesus explains in Matthew 5:16 that by our good works we can bring glory to God. Bringing glory to God is what Job does. And it is what we can do too.

`Read Ephesians 3:10. How is this principle shown in the book of Job in a smaller way?` 

This verse and the book of Job are examples of the fact that God is working in the lives of His followers. He is changing them for His glory into His own image. “The very image of God is to be remade and shown in humans. The honor of God, the honor of Christ, is involved in the perfection [full growth] of the character of His people.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 671. The life of Job is an example of how humans may show this principle. Job lived many thousands of years ago. But God’s people in every period of history still have the honor of living in the same way too.

`What in your life brings glory to God? What does your answer tell you about yourself and how you live and what you might need to change?`