---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   23/12/2016
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

The Protestant Reformation6 brought back to life the great truth of salvation by faith alone. This truth was first recorded in the Bible back in Eden itself (read Genesis 3:15). Then it was made clearer in the life of Abraham (read Genesis 15:6; Romans 4:3). Afterward, it was more and more exposed in Bible history up through Paul. The truth of salvation by faith alone always includes the work of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer. In the life and character of Job, we find a great example of what this work looks like. 

Bible thinkers sometimes call this work “sanctification,” which means “holiness” or “holy living.” This basic idea appears in different ways in both the Old and New Testament. But it deals with what God does in us. It can be seen as Christian growth in goodness and toward goodness. It is “a growing experience of moral7 change by the power of the Holy Spirit in cooperation with the human will [wish; desire; strength of mind].”—Adapted from Handbook of SDA Theology, page 296. 

The work of sanctification, or holy or right living, is something that only God can do in us. But we are not forced into sanctification. And we are not forced into justification.8 Instead, we give ourselves to the Lord, and the same Lord who justifies (cleanses and forgives) us by faith also will sanctify (make holy) us. He changes us, as He did with Job, into the image of God until we become mature in Christ. So Paul writes: “My dear children, I am in pain for you. Once again I have pain like a woman giving birth. And my pain will continue until Christ makes you like himself” (Galatians 4:19, NIrV). And Ellen G. White writes: “Christ is our pattern. He is also the perfect and holy example that has been given us to follow. We can never equal Him. But we may copy and follow His example as much as we can.”—Adapted from That I May Know Him, page 265.

### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`What choices can we make that will allow the Lord to do more and greater work in us? We know that only God can change the heart. But we must cooperate. What does that cooperation look like? How is it shown?`

`Colossians 2:6 reads: “You received Christ Jesus as Lord. So keep on living in him” (NIrV). How do these words help us to understand what it means to live in faith and obedience?`

`How can we as a church, not just as persons, bring glory to the Lord before humans and before angels?`

##### DEFINITIONS

6.	**Protestant Reformation**—the religious movement in the 1600s. Its goal was to bring about change for the better in the Roman Catholic Church. Martin Luther was one of the great reformers (bringers of change) for that time.
7.	**moral**—knowing the difference between right and wrong.
8.	**justification**—forgiveness and cleansing that makes us holy and pure.