---
title:  False Teachers
date:   03/06/2017
---

### False Teachers

### Read for This Week’s Study
2 Pet. 2:1–22, John 8:34–36, Matt. 12:43–45, Jude 4–19, Gen. 18:16–33.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves of corruption; for people are slaves to whatever masters them” (2 Peter 2:19, NRSV). 

In his first epistle, Peter, with great pastoral concern, sought to encourage readers in regard to the perils of persecution. Though we don’t know exactly what form of persecution he was specifically addressing, we do know that the church would face terrible trials as the pagan Roman Empire sought to extinguish the growing movement of people called “Christians.”

Satan launched a two-pronged attack. Certainly, persecution from the outside—that is, brute force and violence—was a powerful tool. But the church faced another threat, one perhaps even more dangerous than outside persecution. And that was the threat from inside. Just as the Jewish nation in the past had to deal with false prophets, the follower of Jesus in Peter’s day had to deal with false teachers who would “secretly introduce destructive heresies” (2 Pet. 2:1, NIV) into the church itself. And, even worse, Peter warned that many would follow these “destructive ways” (2 Pet. 2:2, NKJV).  

What were some of these teachings that Peter was warning about? How did Peter react to them, and what lessons can we take from his warnings for ourselves today, as we also face threats from within? 

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, June 10._