---
title:  False Prophets and Teachers
date:   04/06/2017
---

### False Prophets and Teachers 

It’s sometimes easy to idealize the early church, to think of it as a time of great peace and harmony among the earliest believers in Jesus. 

That would be a mistake. Even from the days of Jesus the church faced struggles, often from within (think of Judas). As the New Testament epistles show, many of the problems came from false teachings in their midst. The early church struggled, not just with persecution from the outside but from problems within, as well. In this letter Peter deals with some of those internal challenges. What are they? “But there were also false prophets among the people, even as there will be false teachers among you, who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the Lord who bought them, and bring on themselves swift destruction. And many will follow their destructive ways, because of whom the way of truth will be blasphemed. By covetousness they will exploit you with deceptive words; for a long time their judgment has not been idle, and their destruction does not slumber” (2 Pet. 2:1–3, NKJV). It hardly sounds like a time of great peace and internal harmony among the brothers and sisters.

`Read 2 Peter 2:1–3, 10–22. What is Peter warning about here? What are some of the false things that were being promoted in the churches?`

Second Peter 2:1 most likely reveals the reason the Lord inspired Peter to write the letter. He was warning them that just as there had been false prophets in the past, there will be false teachers in the future. Peter outlines quite a litany of charges against these teachers, everything from “destructive heresies” (2 Pet. 2:1, NKJV) to leading the unwary into bondage (2 Pet. 2:19) and a host of other errors, as well. From what he wrote, we can see that these were indeed very dangerous teachings, which explains why he reacted so strongly against them. Peter knew nothing of the idea that doctrine doesn’t matter. 

`Look at how strongly Peter reacts to these false teachings. What should this tell us about how important truth is? How can we protect ourselves against any and all attempts to bring false doctrine into the church?`