---
title:  Freedom in Christ?
date:   05/06/2017
---

### Freedom in Christ?

“For they mouth empty, boastful words and, by appealing to the lustful desires of the flesh, they entice people who are just escaping from those who live in error” (2 Pet. 2:18, NIV). 

`What is Peter warning about in this verse? What does he say in 2 Peter 2:19 that helps explain his concern? What is the importance of the word freedom (NIV) or liberty (NKJV) in verse 19?`

In the strongest possible language, Peter was giving his readers a warning against the dangers of false teachers. In 2 Peter 2:18–21 he warned that these false teachers, while promising liberty and freedom, would actually lead people into bondage. 

What a complete perversion of the gospel! Freedom in Christ should mean freedom from the slavery of sin (Rom. 6:4–6). Any concept of freedom in Christ that leaves a person in the bondage of sin is the kind of error that Peter is warning about. Though scholars have debated the precise heresy that he was dealing with here, it’s clearly linked to the whole question of sin and one’s being a slave to it.

`Read John 8:34–36. How do Christ’s words here help us to understand what Peter is saying?`

Whatever these false teachers were presenting, they were leading their victims—people who had recently found the Lord Jesus—back to their old sinful way of life. It’s easy to imagine some kind of cheap grace gospel that downplayed the need for purity and holiness, something that caused them to be caught up again in the very “corruption” (2 Pet. 2:19) of the world they had just escaped from. No wonder Peter spoke so sharply and strongly against these teachings and warned about what the result of following them would be. 

`What do you understand freedom in Christ to be? From what has Christ freed you?`