---
title:  More Old Testament Lessons
date:   08/06/2017
---

### More Old Testament Lessons 

`Read 2 Peter 2:6–16. What other examples does Peter use to give his warning about what wickedness will lead to?`

The first substantive reference to Sodom in the Bible is Genesis 13:12, 13. Lot and Abraham decided to separate for “financial” reasons. Lot chose the Jordan Valley and “pitched his tent toward Sodom” (Gen. 13:12). The Bible then comments, “Now the people of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the Lord” (Gen. 13:13, NRSV). Later, when God warned Abraham that He was planning to destroy Sodom, Abraham negotiated an agreement that God would not destroy it if ten righteous people were found there (Gen. 18:16–33). The unlikelihood of finding even ten righteous people in Sodom was amply demonstrated by what happened to the messengers sent to visit Lot. The city was duly destroyed; only Lot and his two daughters escaped (Gen. 19:12–25). 

Peter derives two lessons from this story. First, the two cities provide an example of the punishment coming to the ungodly (2 Pet. 2:6). Second, it shows that the Lord knows how to rescue the righteous from trial (2 Pet. 2:7–9). Peter then notes some of the characteristics of those who were destroyed at Sodom and Gomorrah: they indulge their flesh in depraved lust, despise authority, are bold and willful, and do not hesitate to slander the angels (2 Pet. 2:10, 11). These characteristics have similarities to how Peter describes the false teachers and their followers.  

The story of Balaam is found in Numbers 22:1–24:25. He had been hired by Balak, king of Moab, to curse the Israelites. At first reluctant, he was eventually persuaded to take on this task by the offer of a larger sum of money (Num. 22:7–21). On his way he was confronted by an “angel of the Lord” and was saved from death only when his donkey turned aside. Balaam then beat his donkey and realized his mistake only when his eyes were opened and he saw the “angel of the Lord” himself (Num. 22:22–35). In the end, Balaam ended up blessing Israel (Num. 23:4–24:24). Peter used Balaam as an example of those enticed by adultery and greed (2 Pet. 2:14, 15). Such people are like Balaam. They have left the path that they should follow. 

`Think about all that we have been given, both in the Bible and in the writings of Ellen G. White. Thus, why can we as Seventh-day Adventists never say that we haven’t been warned?`
