---
title:  Strongholds in My Relationship With God
date:  25/05/2026
---

There are many messages in the Bible that speak about our relationship with God and the barriers that prevent us from growing in Christ. Consider these words from Paul and Jesus:

“Therefore let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall” (1 Cor. 10:12, NKJV). Like Samson, self-reliance will bring you down.

“ ‘Do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do . . . , that they may have glory from men’ ” (Matt. 6:2, NKJV). Stop telling everyone how good you are! Be humble, as Jesus was humble.

“ ‘But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out and cast it from you’ ” (Matt. 5:28, 29, NKJV). Do anything to remove the lust from your heart, because this is a barrier to your relationship with God.

“ ‘Judge not, that you be not judged. For with what judgment you judge, you will be judged’ ” (Matt. 7:1, 2, NKJV). Stop being so critical and judgmental of others. God is the Judge, so let Him be so (1 Cor. 4:5).

“ ‘But I say to you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you’ ” (Matt. 5:44, NKJV). Stop hating your enemies. When you feel negatively toward those who treat you badly, it instantly places a barrier in your relationship with God. Instead, start praying for your enemies and see how this changes not just your walk with God but also your relationship with others.

“ ‘But I say to you that whoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment’ ” (Matt. 5:22, NKJV). Perhaps you’ve been justifying why you yell at those close to you. How is your anger impacting your relationship with God, not to mention those you’re angry at? These are just a few areas that make us stumble.

`Jesus warned about what we should do when our hands, feet, and eyes cause us to sin. What was Jesus warning us about? Read Mark 9:42–48.`

To cut off your hand or foot or to pluck out your eye because it’s causing you to sin is extreme. It was supposed to be. But this is how seriously Jesus sees sin and its impact in our lives. How seriously are you taking it?

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Our Lord is cognizant of the conflict of His people in these last days with the satanic agencies combined with evil men who neglect and refuse their great salvation. With the greatest simplicity and candor, our Saviour, the mighty General of the armies of heaven, does not conceal the stern conflict which they will experience. He points out the dangers, He shows us the plan of the battle, and the hard and hazardous work to be done, and then lifts His voice before entering the conflict to count the cost while at the same time He encourages all to take up the weapons of their warfare and expect the heavenly host to compose the armies to war in defense of truth and righteousness. Men’s weakness shall find supernatural strength and help in every stern conflict to do the deeds of Omnipotence, and perseverance in faith and perfect trust in God will ensure success.\
While the vast confederacy of evil is arrayed against them He bids them to be brave and strong and fight valiantly for they have a heaven to win, and they have more than an angel in their ranks, the mighty General of armies leads on the armies of heaven. As on the occasion of the taking of Jericho, not one of the armies of Israel could boast of exercising their finite strength to overthrow the walls of the city, but the Captain of the Lord’s host planned the battle in the greatest simplicity, that the Lord alone should receive the glory and man should not be exalted. God has promised us all power; for the promise is unto you and your children, and to all that are afar off even as many as the Lord our God shall call.\
Faith is the living power that presses through every barrier, overrides all obstacles, and plants its banner in the heart of the enemy’s camp.—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 202.

By becoming thoroughly acquainted with ourselves, and then combining with the grace of God a firm determination on our part, we may be conquerors, and become perfect in all things, wanting in nothing.\
Opposing circumstances should create a firm determination to overcome them. The breaking down of one barrier will give greater ability and courage to go forward. Press with determination in the right direction, and circumstances will be your helpers, not your hindrances.\
True Christian character is marked by a singleness of purpose, an indomitable determination, which refuses to yield to worldly influences, which will aim at nothing short of the Bible standard. . . . The consecration of Christ’s follower must be complete. . . . He must be willing to bear patiently, cheerfully, joyfully, whatever in God’s providence he may be called to suffer. His final reward will be to share with Christ the throne of immortal glory.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 225.
