---
title: 'Rebellion is a Choice'
date: 07/01/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Genesis 4:1–7**

**Rebellion is a Choice**

It was night. A pastor in his 30s was in the intensive-care unit waiting for the moment to die. His life was fading away after an apparently unsuccessful surgery, following a hemorrhagic episode. He wasn’t strong enough to stand another surgery.

Why would I be allowed to die? he thought. Was God rejecting him and his ministry? Was God punishing him for leaving God’s ways when he was a teenager? Was there a sin that he forgot to confess, for which he was now being punished? It seemed as if God were too severe, hard, and revengeful, lacking mercy and grace. Was he serving the right God? What if salvation was a mirage?

A few months before, in a seeming sign of disapproval for his work, the conference headquarters where he was working at moved him to a different pastoral district. But now it seemed that even God was not approving his life! Amid darkness, a spark of revolt and bitterness started to burn inside his heart. Rebellion was the next step. All his religious experiences seemed like a sham and that God was not that good Being he preached about.

Whether I harbor rebellion and bitterness or not, I will die anyway, he thought. But what if I decide to cling to Jesus’ feet, begging for forgiveness, even though it seems as if He is kicking me aside? What if, despite contrary evidence, I keep looking for salvation?” Once making that choice, he was no longer interested in fighting for temporary healing, but for eternal life.

A verse flashed before his mind: “The one who comes to Me I will by no means cast out” (John 6:37). In the morning, after a night of talking to Jesus and with no evidence of God’s acceptance, he was visited by a nurse who prayed and sang with him. After that prayer his bloodwork indicated that the healing process had started. After some more time in the hospital, the pastor was finally discharged! He was now sure that Jesus Himself had healed him that night!

Through Cain and Abel’s narrative we will explore not only the importance of regular offerings, but also how the choice to rebel or to accept God’s sovereignty will affect our worship and eternal destiny.

#### inScribe

Write out Genesis 4:1–7 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite it in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `