---
title: Killed for Trusting
date: 08/01/2023
---

#### inGest

The bitterness that precedes rebellion is not always easy to identify. In the case of Cain, his high opinion about himself led him to believe that he was able to see things that his parents and Abel were too naive to understand. So he allowed feelings of rebellion against God to grow.

By distancing himself from God, he lost sight of God’s character. Then, could it be that he started to think that humans were victimized, manipulated, and oppressed by a harsh, severe, and mean God? Perhaps he thought that the way God had treated Adam and Eve, and by extension himself, expelling them from the garden, was something even worse than the pair’s failure. After all, wasn’t Adam and Eve’s failure something really small? Why was even the earth cursed?

Cain could have believed that meticulously following God’s commandments was a sign of subservience and weakness. He may have preferred to look at what he felt was the big picture and pick what would look reasonable to him. After all, why would people gifted with free will and intelligence need to strictly follow Another’s mind? Can’t they have autonomy and be a law to themselves? Would not strict obedience be a sign of stupidity? Would it not be fanaticism to follow point by point all the smallest details of God’s requirements?

Abel, on the other hand, even though also affected by God’s curse, decided to accept His dealings with humanity as something fair, believing in His justice and mercy, and, above all, trusting in the promised redemption. He decided to humble himself under a Superior Mind, under the authority of a Wisdom that cannot always be understood by limited, fallen minds.

The conditions were far from ideal after they lost access to the Garden of Eden. But trusting in the promise of a brighter future after redemption, Abel accepted God’s gift of forgiveness through the bloodshed of a Substitute, prefigured by the sacrificial animal. He could find love in the promise of a future Deliverer that would join His fate with humanity, being also injured by the serpent, before bruising its head (Gen. 3:15).

While trying to convince Abel to join him in his rebellion, Cain met a kind, meek, but firm reaction from his brother. Abel exalted God’s law as good, desirable, and something meant to protect them, and His mercy in sparing the life of their parents. He also testified about God’s justice and love in providing an escape for every repentant transgressor, symbolized by the bloody sacrifice. Then he invited Cain to worship God according to the prescribed way, but that made Cain even more determined to follow his own way.

Enraged because he was unable to enlist Abel’s sympathy to his cause, or to answer to his arguments, Cain gave way to violence, ending up killing the representative of true faith. And the same thing will happen at the end of time between those who trust in the Lord and those who are just nominal worshippers. The harsher persecution should be expected to come from inside God’s people.

Read more in Ellen White’s Patriarchs and Prophets, chapter 5: “Cain and Abel Tested.”

**Memorize your favorite verse in Genesis 4:1–7. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.**

` `

`What prevented Cain from looking for forgiveness?`

`What were the steps that Cain should have taken to be forgiven by God?`