---
title: 'Who Is the Benefactor?'
date: 09/01/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Abel brought an offering “of the firstborn of his flock and of their fat.” “The Lord respected Abel and his offering” (Gen. 4:4), considering it “a more excellent sacrifice than [Cain’s]” (Heb. 11:4).

The word “firstborn” may indicate that for Abel it was a regular offering (not tithe), given as regularly as a female of his flock would produce her first young. This was a sign of submission and allegiance to God. This offering was given triggered, not by feelings, but by an event—a female animal producing its young—which was considered a blessing from the Lord. This offering helps us see God as the giver, provider, and benefactor, promoting gratitude, trust, and peace of mind. In this way it was supposed to be an antidote against bitterness, ingratitude, and rebellion.

The act of offering the firstborn from every animal was an ancient practice among God-fearing people that was later regulated for the Israelites (Ex. 13:1–16). Usually less costly and not requiring bloodshed, this firstfruit offering was under the principle that God should be the first (Matt. 6:33).

“Honor the Lord with your possessions, and with the firstfruits of all your increase” (Prov. 3:9, NKJV), records Solomon, validating this God-first principle even for us who have salaries or an income instead of herds or crops. It should lead the giver to trust that the One who provided once would provide again: “So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine” (v. 10).

Regular offerings, under the God-first principle, should be primarily triggered, not by good feelings, a specific need, a call, sympathy for a priest or a religious leader, nor even a desire to provide for the temple or mission work. Instead, they should be triggered by God’s act of sending some form of an increase. They are a means to worship God, in addition to the tithe (Mal. 3:8–10), whenever there is an addition of income.

Out of gratitude, some people today practice this principle, for example, when they return to the Lord the first rental income of a new tenant, or the first paycheck of a new job. They keep putting God first by returning the tithe and another proportion as an offering from every regular salary or rental income.

Triggered by God’s blessings, as does the tithe, regular offerings tend to foster (as in Abel’s case) a “worship mentality” instead of a “donor mentality.” When a “donation mentality” is adopted, givers may be tempted to see themselves as owners of the resources, and later benefactors or philanthropists (sometimes yearning for recognition). “Donors” may be more inclined to think that they are in the position to decide to give or not, where to give, and to decide how funds should be applied.

Worshippers under the God-first principle instead consider God as the benefactor, the owner of all things, and the philanthropist. The regular offering for worshippers is a celebration that attributes glory to God for what they have received every time they receive something from Him. In this way, they are less inclined to expect human praise or recognition. For them, special spontaneous offerings may be given, but only in addition to or beyond regular offerings, never replacing them.

True worshippers see themselves just as receptacles of God’s goods, as His representatives, and as stewards of His possessions. Because everything belongs to Him, they consider themselves responsible before the Owner for even the use of what remains in their hands after they bring their tithe and offerings!

` `