---
title: 'Cain’s Continual Choice'
date: 11/01/2023
---

#### inVite

“By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained witness that he was righteous” (Heb. 11:4). Through the absence of fire descending from heaven, (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, 71) God showed that “He did not respect Cain and his offering” (Gen. 4:5). How can we explain this discrimination now in an age of pluralism and inclusiveness?

The system of offerings implies more than simply recognizing God as the provider and benefactor. It should also point to God as the Redeemer. Both Cain and Abel were well familiarized with that system of worship specified by God, centered in the killing of an animal and the need of spilt blood—something not intended to be pretty.

That ritual, intended to benefit the sinner and not God, was conceived to lead every worshipper to recognize her/his sinfulness and to express faith in the promise that the death penalty for sin would fall on Someone else. All privileges and blessings for death-deserving sinners were possible only because of the plan of redemption. God’s grace would be revealed through His own death on behalf of the unmerited sinner.

But Cain refused to see the offering as a benefit to himself. (E. G. White, 72.) Instead, proud of his own refined senses, he presumed those bloody sacrifices too disgusting and repugnant. (E. G. White, 72, 73.) Cain likely choose to interpret them as evidence of God’s severity and cruelty, in addition to his interpretation of Adam and Eve’s expulsion from the garden.

Believing that only inferior minds needed to comply with the smaller details of God’s requirements, he opted for a cleaner and convenient way to worship. By doing it his way, he missed that worship must be offered, not according to the preferences of the worshipper, but according to the prescriptions of Him who is worshipped.

The rejection of Cain was not arbitrary, as God is not a respecter of humanity. Jesus sees, weighs, remembers, evaluates, and estimates every heart and every offering (Mark 12:41; Acts 10:4), not by any human criteria, but according to His law. The way we bring our offerings (or even the absence of offerings) is frequently a reflex of our feelings toward Him.

Even after Cain’s offering was rejected, God did not leave him alone to perish. Instead, Cain was assured by an angel that he could still be accepted if he would “do well” (Gen. 4:7). He was also warned that because of his sinful nature, sin was “crouching at the door” (v. 7, ESV), and its desire was to control his life, leading him to failure. Nevertheless, Cain would still retain the choice to “rule over it” (v. 7) or not.

We serve a righteous God, who is not a respecter of humanity. Though He has died for all, in the end God will respect everyone’s choice to accept or reject Him! Those who refuse to accept Jesus’ death on their behalf will need to pay themselves for their sins. As David did later, Cain could have confessed his sin and his rebellion, being completely forgiven. He could then express his trust in God’s forgiveness by bringing an appropriate offering, according to God’s prescription. Nonetheless, like Satan, Saul, and Judas, Cain chose to keep his cherished thoughts of bitterness and a haughty attitude.

Even today, any offering that fails to express faith in Jesus as Savior, Creator, and Provider becomes a modern imitation of Cain’s offering. It may be brought to the church, be praised by others, and produce good feelings in the giver, but will not be accepted by Heaven. Only true, penitent worship will connect the giver to the Source of all good things.

` `