---
title:  Choose Life!
date:  13/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 2:8, 9, 15–17; John 3:16; Deuteronomy 30:15–20; Deuteronomy 30:1–10.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Today I am giving you a choice of [between] two ways. . . And I ask heaven and earth to be witnesses of your choice. You can choose life or death. The first choice will bring a blessing. The other choice will bring a curse. So choose life! Then you and your children will live’” (Deuteronomy 30:19, ERV).

A 22-YEAR-OLD WOMAN NAMED SANDY is very sick. She has a growth in her brain. The doctors can do nothing to save her. But Sandy does not want to die.

So, Sandy makes a plan. After she dies, her head will be frozen in a barrel filled with a special liquid. This liquid will stop her brain from decaying and rotting. Her brain will wait in the liquid for 50 years, 100 years, 1,000 years or more until a scientist invents a way to load her brain into a computer. Then Sandy can “live” on, maybe forever.

This story is very sad. A young person is going to die before she has a chance to really live. Sandy wants to live so much. But she puts her hope for life in the wrong place. She chooses a plan that will fail in the end, for sure.

This week, we continue our study of Deuteronomy. We will look at the chance God gives us to choose life. If we want this gift, we must accept it in the way that God offers it to us.