---
title:  The Tree Of Life 
date:  14/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Did any of us ask to be here? None of us did, any more than we chose where we were born or who our parents were.

We can say the same thing about Adam and Eve. They did not choose for God to make them any more than a leaf, a rock, or a mountain chose to be made. God gave us life anyway. What makes us different from other things God made? God made rocks and amoebas. Amoebas are tiny animals you can see only under a microscope. Rocks and amoebas do not have free choice. But we do. God did not make rocks and amoebas as copies of Himself. But we are copies of God.

At the same time, we did not choose for God to make us. God does offer us a choice about the life He gives us. We can choose to have everlasting life in Him. We can have this life because Jesus died on the cross for us.

`What two choices does God give Adam about life? Read Genesis 2:8, 9, 15–17 and Genesis 3:22, 23 for the answer.`

“The tree of life grows in the middle of Eden. The fruit from this tree makes human life continue forever. If Adam stays obedient to God, Adam will continue to eat from this tree whenever he wants. Then he will live forever. But Adam sins. So, God forbids Adam from eating from the tree of life anymore. Adam will die. God announces to Adam: ‘ “I used dust to make you, and when you die, you will become dust again’ ” [Genesis 3:19, ERV]. This punishment shows that when Adam dies, nothing will be left of his life on this earth.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 532, 533, adapted.

Right from the start, the Bible shows that God gives us a choice: everlasting life, or death that stops our lives forever. We cannot wake up again from this death.

Do you see that the tree of life shows up again in the last book of the Bible? Read Revelation 2:7 and Revelation 22:2, 14. Maybe God wants us to remember that we always were meant to eat from the tree of life. But we lost that blessing because of sin. After God solves the sin problem, we will eat from this tree again. First, we must choose life. We have Jesus to thank for making this choice possible.

`How do we choose life or death by the choices we make every day?`