---
title:  Only Two Choices 
date:  15/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

All through the Bible, God gives us two choices: life or death.

Read the verses below. What two choices do you see in each of these verses? In some verses, the choices may be plain to see. In other verses, you may see only a hint.

John 3:16 _________________________________________________

Genesis 7:22, 23 __________________________________________

Romans 6:23 _______________________________________________

Romans 8:6 ________________________________________________

1 John 5:12 _______________________________________________

Matthew 7:24–27 ___________________________________________

In the end, we have only two choices. Remember, too, we are part of the worldwide war between good and evil. God will end this war sometime in the future. Then sin, Satan, evil, lawbreaking, and fighting against God will end forever. Before that time, each one of us will have made a personal decision for life or death. We can choose everlasting life. God first planned for us to have this life before He made the earth. Or we can choose the death we can never wake up from. Paul talks about what will happen to the people who choose this death: “ ‘They will be destroyed forever. They will be shut out of heaven. They will never see the glory [shining beauty] of the Lord’s strength’ ” (2 Thessalonians 1:9, NIrV).

What choice will we make? That decision rests with each of us. We have the choice before us: Life or death?

`Think some more about the choice we must make between everlasting life and the death that ends our lives forever. Why, then, is the Bible truth about hell so comforting? Some people believe hell is a place where lost people burn forever. What awful picture does this false idea give us about God if we believe He burns sinners forever in the fires of hell?`