---
title:  Blessings And Curses 
date:  16/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Near the end of Deuteronomy, Moses finishes giving the people a long talk about the evil things that will happen to them if they disobey the Lord. Then Deuteronomy 30 starts with a promise. God will save His people even after they disobey Him and are punished by being sent to live in another country.

But first, the people of Israel must confess their sins and turn from their evil ways.

`Read Deuteronomy 30:15–20. What two choices does Moses put before the people? How do these choices show the same idea we see all through the Bible?`

The Lord puts one of two choices before His people. The Lord gave Adam and Eve the same choice in Eden, too. The Hebrew words for “good” (tov) and for “evil” (ra’) in Deuteronomy 30:15 are the same Hebrew words used in Genesis. Moses uses these words to talk about the tree of the knowledge of “good” (tov) and “evil” (ra’). These words help us see that Adam and Eve have only one of two choices. They will choose to serve the Lord and live. Or they will choose death. The choice is the same for us, too. We can choose life, good, and blessings. Or we can choose death, evil, and curses. In the end, God offers His people only the good. But if the people turn away from God, then they will get bad things. Their bad choice will cause God to remove His special protection from them.

We see here, as we have seen before, that free choice is very important. Without this important Bible truth, we really cannot understand much of the rest of the Bible.

So, the Lord is really saying to His people, “I have given you free choice. Choose life, choose the good, choose blessings. Do not choose death, evil, and curses.”

We know the correct choice, right? The answer is easy, of course. But what happened? Israel chose the wrong thing again and again. We should learn from their poor example. Israel shows us what can happen in our own lives if we do not give ourselves fully to the Lord and choose life.

`Read Deuteronomy 30:20. Do you see the connection in this verse between love and obedience? What must Israel do to be obedient to God? How can we follow this same rule in our own lives today?`