---
title:  Not Too Hard For You 
date:  17/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Deuteronomy 30 starts with the Lord telling His people what will happen if they confess their sins and turn from their evil ways. God offers them many wonderful promises!

`Read Deuteronomy 30:1–10. What promises does God give the people if they turn back to Him? What do these promises show us about the mercy and forgiveness of God?`

For sure, the children of Israel must have felt very comforted by these promises. God will show the people His love when they turn back to Him. Then His people will love Him back. They will show their love for God by being obedient to everything He tells them to do.

`Read Deuteronomy 30:11–14. What does the Lord say to His people in these verses? What important promise does God make in these verses? What New Testament verses can you think of that show this same promise?`

Look at the beautiful language the Lord uses in these verses and the powerful words He uses to share the thoughts in His heart. The Lord does not ask His people to do anything too difficult: “ ‘This command that I give you today is not too hard for you. It is not a secret hidden in some far away land. This command is not in heaven so that you should say, “Who will go up to heaven for us and bring it to us, so that we can hear and do it?” This command is not on the other side of the sea so that you should say, “Who will go across the sea for us and bring it to us, so that we can hear it and do it?” No, the word is very near to you. It is in your mouth and in your heart. So you can obey it’ ” (Deuteronomy 30:11–14, ERV). What is the Lord saying here? He says, You know my command well enough to tell it to other people. My command also is in your heart. So, you know that you must do it. You have no excuse for not obeying Me. “God will help us do everything He asks us to do.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 333, adapted.

After the Lord gives the people His command, His people are told to choose between life or death. If by faith, the people choose life, they will have it.

`Are things any different for us today?`