---
title:  A Question Of Worship 
date:  18/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

What made Israel different from the people around them? Worship. Worship is one of the most important parts of the agreement between God and His people. Only Israel worshiped the Lord. The people around them worshiped false gods, who were not really gods at all.  The Lord announces: “ ‘ “Look! I am the One! There is no other God except me” ’ ” (Deuteronomy 32:39, NIrV).

`Read Deuteronomy 4:19; Deuteronomy 8:19; Deuteronomy 11:16; and Deuteronomy 30:17. What same warning do you see in all these verses? Why is this warning so important to the people of Israel?`

Thousands of years ago, the Israelites lived around people whose way of life, beliefs, ideas, and actions went against the worship of the Lord. So, the people of God always needed to be careful not to let the “gods” of this earth become their gods, too.

Our God is the same as “ ‘a fire that burns everything up. He wants you to worship only him’ ” (Deuteronomy 4:24, NIrV; read also Deuteronomy 5:9 and Deuteronomy 6:15). Only God is worthy of our worship. Again, we see we must make a choice: we must choose to worship the Lord. He brings us life, good things, and blessings. Or we will worship another god. This choice brings us evil, curses, and death.

`Read Revelation 13:1–15. How is worship shown in these verses? Compare these verses with Revelation 14:6–12. How do both sets of verses from Revelation show us the same warning in Deuteronomy against false worship?`

Of course, Revelation and Deuteronomy show us different times in history. But both books raise the same important questions: Will people worship God and have life? Or will they give in to pressure, turn away from God, and choose death? In the end, each person must look in his or her heart for the answer. God did not force His people to follow Him in the desert. God will not force us today. Revelation 13 shows us that the sea-animal power uses force to make people obey. God works only by love.

`How can we be sure that we are not turning away from Jesus for some other God?`