---
title:  Further Thought
date:  19/11/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God gave Israel a choice. God gives us the same choice, too. The important word here is choice. A false belief in Christianity teaches we do not have free choice. This teaching says that God chose some people to be lost and burn in hell forever. The Bible teaches we will decide by our own free choice if we will live or die. Even if someone makes the wrong choice, they will not burn in a never-ending lake of fire.

“ ‘When you sin, the pay you get is death. But God gives you the gift of eternal [everlasting] life. That’s because of what Christ Jesus our Lord has done’ ” (Romans 6:23, [NIrV]). God will give His people life. Evil people will get death. Moses announced to Israel: “ ‘Today I’m giving you a choice. You can have life and success. Or you can have death and harm [suffering and disaster]’ ” (Deuteronomy 30:15, [NIrV]). What is this death Moses talks about? This death is not the same death God announced to Adam after he sinned. All humans suffer this penalty for the sin of Adam. The death Moses talks about in this verse is named ‘the second death’ [Revelation 20:6, ERV]. This death is different in every way from everlasting life.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 544, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Does God punish people here and now for not obeying His law? Or does punishment just happen naturally when people sin? Or is the answer a little bit of both? Or is there a time when one explanation is more correct than the other explanation? How do we understand this topic?`

`Look at the Bible verses in the Ellen G. White quote. What do these verses teach us about God and the power over sin He gives us?`

`Read Romans 10:1–10. In these verses, Paul uses verses from Deuteronomy 30:11–14 to explain how Jesus saves us by faith. Why do you think Paul uses these verses? Pay special attention to Romans 10:10. What is Paul saying in this verse?`

`What are ways the people around you and their views, beliefs, and interests can lead you into false worship if you are not careful?`