---
title:  Church Connectivity
date:  23/03/2026
---

In a world connected by the internet, social media, and countless devices, it is difficult to imagine the challenge that Paul faced in helping churches feel they were a part of something bigger than their own local congregations.

`Read Colossians 4:10, 11. Besides sending news back and forth through emissaries (Col. 4:7–9), what other ways did Paul encourage connectivity? In view of some of the problems Paul has addressed in this epistle, what message might be conveyed through these greetings?`

With these greetings, Paul creates and fosters connectivity among fellow believers. We learn here that Mark was Barnabas’s cousin. Paul thus paves the way for Mark’s probable visit to Colossae. Aristarchus is described literally as a “fellow prisoner-of-war”; that is, he was imprisoned with Paul. They were both soldiers with “the armour of God” (Eph. 6:10, 11), fighting to set Satan’s captives free for service in the kingdom of God (see 2 Tim. 2:1–4). Jesus/Justus (Jewish and Roman names that sound very similar in Greek, like Saul/Paul) is also commended to them as a trustworthy fellow laborer in the gospel.

Paul makes a point of mentioning that Aristarchus, Mark, and Justus are Jewish believers (“of the circumcision”). He then goes on to mention three Gentiles: Epaphras, Luke, and Demas (Col. 4:12–14). It is significant that, despite some tensions in the church between Jews and Gentiles, these coworkers are able to labor effectively together, unitedly and harmoniously. By saying “only,” though, Paul seems to imply a certain disappointment that more Jewish Christians have not stood by him in his sufferings. Nevertheless, it is significant that by this time, John Mark, who had some years before deserted Paul and Barnabas during their first missionary journey (Acts 13:13), proves not only loyal but a “comfort” to Paul (Acts 15:36-40).

Threats to unity are nothing new. In recent years, the Adventist Church has undergone profound changes as it has spread globally, and forces have hammered away at its unity. This stress on unity can be felt at every level of the church.

`How can you, at your local church, work to lessen the things that threaten our unity? What are these tensions at the local level, and what can be done about them?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Let these words be oft repeated and let every soul train his ideas and spirit and action daily that he may fulfill this prayer of Jesus Christ. He does not request impossible things of His Father. He prays for the very things which must be in His disciples in relation to their oneness to each other and their unity and oneness with God and Jesus Christ. Anything short of this is not attaining to perfection of Christian character. The golden chain of love, binding the hearts of the believers in unity, in bonds of fellowship and love, and in oneness with Christ and the Father, makes the connection perfect, and bears to the world a testimony of the power of Christianity that cannot be controverted. . . .\
Then will selfishness be uprooted and unfaithfulness will not exist. There will not be strife and divisions. There will not be stubbornness in anyone who is bound up with Christ. Not one will act out the stubborn independence of the wayward, impulsive child who drops the hand that is leading him and chooses to stumble on alone. . . .\
“A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one ­another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another” (John 13:34, 35). Satan understands the power of such a testimony as a witness to the world of what grace can do in transforming character. He is not pleased that such a light shall shine forth from those who claim to believe in Jesus Christ, and he will work every conceivable device to break this golden chain which links heart to heart of those who believe the truth and binds them up in close connection with the Father and the Son. . . .\
We believe in Jesus Christ. We unite our souls to Christ. He says, “Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit. . . . These things I command you, that ye love one another” (John 15:16, 17).—That I May Know Him, p. 173.

Those who are truly connected with God will not be at variance with one another. The spirit of harmony, peace, and love, His Spirit ruling in their hearts, will create harmony, love, and unity. The opposite of this works in the children of Satan; there is with them a continual contradiction. Strife and envy and jealousy are the ruling elements. The characteristic of the Christian is the meekness of Christ. Benevolence, kindness, mercy, and love originate from Infinite Wisdom, while the opposite is the unholy fruit of a heart that is not in harmony with Jesus Christ.—Reflecting Christ, p. 300.