---
title:  Standing Perfect and Complete
date:  24/03/2026
---

Books have been written about the purpose-driven life and the purpose-driven church. While “purpose-driven” may not be quite right, a clear “purpose focus” is vital for accomplishing any meaningful endeavor. Paul’s life and ministry, as well as that of his coworkers and the other apostles, exemplify this focus (see Phil. 3:13, 14). The results speak for themselves—the gospel spread rapidly throughout the Roman Empire and beyond (Col. 1:23). The same focus is needed today.

`Read Colossians 4:12, 13. What purpose is described, and how is it to be accomplished?`

As we mentioned in an earlier lesson, Epaphras was probably instrumental in the spread of the gospel to Colossae and to the nearby cities of Laodicea and Hierapolis (see Lesson 1). His greetings and prayers for these churches were no doubt greatly encouraging to believers there. Epaphras’s prayers had a clear focus—that the Colossians would “stand perfect and complete in all the will of God” (Col. 4:12). Let’s consider more carefully the rich components of this prayer.

_Stand._ The word means to stand firm and unmoved, which is possible only by being “grounded and steadfast” in the faith and confident of the truth of the gospel (Col. 1:23, NKJV). The same word is used several times by Paul in reference to the battle against “the wiles of the devil” (Eph. 6:11) and withstanding the forces of darkness through divine power by putting on “the whole armour of God” (Eph. 6:10–18; compare 2 Tim. 2:19).

_Perfect._ The word refers to the perfection of character that finds its ultimate expression in sacrificial love (Matt. 5:44, 48) by those who will never claim to have “arrived” (Phil. 3:12–15, NIV).

_Complete_. This powerful word means to satisfy fully or bring something to full measure. It is used of Abraham’s being “fully convinced” that God would do what He promised, though humanly impossible (Rom. 4:21, NKJV), and Paul’s being strengthened by the Lord so that “the message might be preached fully” through him (2 Tim. 4:17, NKJV).

_All the will of God._ The word “all” is comprehensive. Paul himself prayed that the Colossians would be filled with a knowledge of God’s will, “live worthily of the Lord and please him in all respects” (Col. 1:9, 10, NET) through “His glorious power” (Col. 1:11, NKJV).

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Infinite One—He who alone was able to bring order and beauty out of the chaos and confusion of nature’s darkness—is able to subdue the rebellious heart of man and bring his life into conformity to the divine will. His Spirit can quell man’s rebellious temper. . . .\
Day by day we are building characters, and we are building for eternity. God desires us in our lives to give the people of the world an example of what they should be and of what they can be through obedience to the gospel of Christ. Let us place ourselves in God’s hands, to be dealt with as He sees best. . . . “Ye are God’s husbandry, ye are God’s building” (1 Corinthians 3:9). If we build in cooperation with Him, the structure that we rear will day by day grow more beautiful and more symmetrical under the hand of the Master Builder, and through all eternity it will endure.\
Sanctification is a progressive work. It is a continuous work, leading human beings higher and still higher. It does not leave love behind, but brings it into the life as the very essence of Christianity.\
Christ says to us, “Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect” (Matthew 5:48). He is our example. During His life on earth He was ever kind and gentle. His influence was ever fragrant, for in Him dwelt perfect love. He was never sour and unapproachable, and He never compromised with wrong to obtain favor. If we have His righteousness, we shall be like Him in gentleness, in forbearance, in unselfish love. Shall we not, by dwelling in the sunshine of His presence, become mellowed by His grace?\
Let us honor our profession of faith. Let us adorn our lives with beautiful traits of character. Harshness of speech and action is not of Christ, but of Satan. Shall we, by clinging to our imperfections and deformities, make Christ ashamed of us? His grace is promised to us. If we will receive it, it will beautify our lives. . . . Deformity will be exchanged for goodness, perfection. Our lives will be adorned with the graces that made Christ’s life so beautiful.—In Heavenly Places, p. 31.

The Lord Jesus acts through the Holy Spirit; for it is His representative. Through it He infuses spiritual life into the soul, quicken­ing its energies for good, cleansing it from moral defilement, and giving it a fitness for His kingdom. Jesus has large blessings to bestow, rich gifts to distribute among men. He is the wonderful Counselor, infinite in wisdom and strength; and if we will acknowledge the power of His Spirit, and submit to be molded by it, we shall stand complete in Him. What a thought is this! In Christ “dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily. And ye are complete in him” (Colossians 2:9, 10). Never will the human heart know happiness until it is submitted to be molded by the Spirit of God. The Spirit conforms the renewed soul to the model, Jesus Christ. Through the influence of the Spirit, enmity against God is changed into faith and love, and pride into humility. The soul perceives the beauty of truth, and Christ is honored in excellence and perfection of character. As these changes are effected, angels break out in rapturous song, and God and Christ rejoice over souls fashioned after the divine ­similitude.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 196.