---
title:  Living in This World but Not of It
date:  25/03/2026
---

`Read Colossians 4:14, 15 and 2 Timothy 4:10, 11. How is Luke distinguished from Demas, and why?`

The apostle John tells us, “Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him” (1 John 2:15). Luke’s love for Jesus and His kingdom led him to stand by Paul to the end, come what may, whereas Demas loved this world more than the world to come.

`Read the following passages. What counsel is given for those awaiting the Second Advent?`

1.	Mark 13:32–37

2.	Titus 2:11–14

3.	2 Pet. 3:10–14

4.	Rev. 3:17–21

Jesus and the apostles frequently warn us to “watch,” be vigilant, and be ready always for the Master’s coming so as not to be taken by surprise. Unfortunately, as did the disciples who failed to heed Jesus’ command to “watch and pray” (Mark 14:38, NKJV), many will not make the necessary preparations. It all comes down to who or what has our hearts, because we cannot serve two masters.

In the message to Laodicea, Jesus gives us a clear prescription. First, repent of our sins. Second, we are to open our hearts to Jesus and let Him be in control, which then (third) enables us to obtain the “gold” of faith and love tested by trial and victorious over temptation.

`What specifics might Jesus be asking you to repent of in your life? What part of His prescription are you in need of most?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Daniel was a statesman in Babylon. . . . By his faithful service he taught those in Babylon that his God was a living God, not an image such as they worshiped. It was God’s design to show the Babylonians that there was a King above the king of Babylon—the God whom the Hebrew youth worshiped. These youth exalted God. They knew that they were to carry out the principles of truth, and therefore they refused the meat from the royal table and the wine from the royal cellar. Their abstinence from the prescribed bill of fare made a distinction in every way between their appearance and the appearance of those youth who indulged their appetite.\
There were plenty to make remarks, but these youth were faithful even in little things. And in physical appearance they were far ahead of the youth who sat at the king’s table. Their simple diet kept their minds clear. They were better prepared for their studies, for they never knew the oppression caused by eating luxurious food. They were better prepared physically for taxing labor, for they were never sick. With clear minds they could think and work vigorously. By obeying God, they were doing the very things that will give strength of thought and memory. God ordained Daniel and his fellows to be connected with the great men of Babylon, that these men might become acquainted with the religion of the Hebrews, and know that God reigns over all kingdoms. . . .\
In like manner the Lord means that Seventh-day Adventists shall witness for Him. They are not to be hidden away from the world. They are to be in the world, but not of the world. They are to stand distinct from the world in their manner of dealing. They are to show that they have purity of character, that the world may see that the truth, which they conscientiously believe, makes them honest in their dealings; that those with whom they are connected may see that believers of truth are sanctified through the truth, and that the truth received and obeyed makes the receivers as sons and daughters of God, children of the heavenly King, members of the royal family, faithful, true, honest, and upright, in the small as well as the great acts of life. . . .\
Whatever is worth doing is worth doing well. Let us be faithful in the smallest duties, as well as the work requiring the largest sacrifice. To all who follow Daniel’s example, not only professing the truth but living the truth, acting in accordance with the principles of temperance, the Lord will give encouragement similar to the encouragement He gave Daniel.—Christ Triumphant, p. 352.