---
title:  Further Thought
date:  27/03/2026
---

“The soul that is yielded to Christ becomes His own fortress, which He holds in a revolted world, and He intends that no authority shall be known in it but His own. A soul thus kept in possession by the heavenly agencies is impregnable to the assaults of Satan. But unless we do yield ourselves to the control of Christ, we shall be dominated by the wicked one. We must inevitably be under the control of the one or the other of the two great powers that are contending for the supremacy of the world. It is not necessary for us deliberately to choose the service of the kingdom of darkness in order to come under its dominion. We have only to neglect to ally ourselves with the kingdom of light. If we do not co-operate with the heavenly agencies, Satan will take possession of the heart, and will make it his abiding place. The only defense against evil is the indwelling of Christ in the heart through faith in His righteousness. Unless we become vitally connected with God, we can never resist the unhallowed effects of self-love, self-indulgence, and temptation to sin. We may leave off many bad habits, for the time we may part company with Satan; but without a vital connection with God, through the surrender of ourselves to Him moment by moment, we shall be overcome. Without a personal acquaintance with Christ, and a continual communion, we are at the mercy of the enemy, and shall do his bidding in the end.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 324.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Look at the Ellen G. White quote above. There are, yes, only two sides in the great controversy, and unless we consciously choose Christ, we are on Satan’s side (Luke 11:23). However much that idea might bother our sensibilities, God is not under any obligation to make sure His truths don’t offend them. What does this reality tell you about how crucial the surrender of your will to Christ really is?`

`Read Revelation 14:14–16. The early rain of Pentecost enabled the gospel seed to sprout and grow, while the latter rain prepares the earth for the final harvest. How does Revelation 14:12 relate to this prospect?`

`What are the various ways that we, as a church as a whole and as individual believers, are impacted by the culture and world around us? How can we be protected against the negative in­fluences of the world, which have always been a problem for God’s people in every age?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Our High Calling, “Love’s Fragrant Outreach,” August 13, p. 231.\
The Upward Look, “The Harvest of the Cross,” April 6, p. 110.\