---
title:  Where’s Your Umbrella?
date:  13/04/2019
---

**Introduction**: Gen. 16:1, 2, 5, 6; Eccles. 3:1; Matt. 20:20–22; Acts 5:1–10; 1 Cor. 10:1–13

There was a little town that had been experiencing dry weather for years. Trees had lost their leaves, and the river that once flowed with fresh, clean water was dry, leaving a bed of clay, cracked in a checkerboard pattern with gaps as wide as a foot. The only birds in evidence were the vultures that circled the town, looking for carcasses. Even people walked about as thin as sticks, barely surviving. Having exhausted all their options, the citizens held a meeting. “Let us pray,” suggested an elderly woman. “Only God can help us now.” They decided to hold a grand prayer meeting that night, and everyone was invited to come out to pray. Among the people gathering for prayer was a little girl holding on tightly to an open umbrella. The gathered crowd could not help but wonder what was going on. Some were curious, others were annoyed, and some others were even furious as they were constantly being poked by the spokes of the umbrella. Finally, a curious bystander asked, “Why did you bring the umbrella? Can’t you see there is no rain and we have come here to pray for rain? Only a foolish person would stand on a clear night like this with an open umbrella.”

The little girl replied, “I came to pray too. I am certain that our prayers will be answered, and it will rain. That is why I brought this big umbrella.”1 Life is characterized by change. Ecclesiastes 3:1 states, “There is a time for everything, and a season for every activity under the heavens” (NIV). Therefore, in life, we can always expect change. More so, change is something that can occur unexpectedly, and many times it would seem as though the default position to be in when change occurs is “unprepared,” sometimes even for the changes that we have been expecting or praying fervently for. One can therefore even argue, “If life is full of changes, how can we always be surprised when it finally happens?” The key is to have the same mind-set as the little girl who came to pray for rain—preparation and faith—because even when we are unprepared, where change is especially concerned, faith is the Christian’s best friend.

Change is practically inevitable, and we can approach it in different ways. We can choose to be unprepared for the changes; or we can be like the little girl, who came prepared for the change in faith.

---

<sup>1. Adapted from Professor Nazeer Ahmed, “The Child Who Brought an Open Umbrella for Prayer,” History of Islam, https://historyofislam.com/the-king-learns-the-secret-of-happiness -from-a-child/the-child-who-brought-an-open-umbrella-for-prayer/.</sup>

_Kenisha K. A. Hutson, Georgetown, Guyana_