---
title:  The Last Funeral
date:  16/04/2019
---

**Evidence**: 1 Kings 2:1–4; 1 Cor. 15:24–26

“Death is a universal human experience. It is like the unavoidable ‘gravitational’ pull seeking to have its way without prior consent. Death is a crisis that all families encounter, and it is recognized as the most stressful life event faced by families. . . . The occurrence of death though inevitable can be significantly disruptive and upsetting to the family system and the network of relationships of the dead person.”1 Suffice it to say, humans will never get accustomed to death.

“Many will argue that death at certain ages (especially the elderly) is a normative event over the life course. However, Lavee, McCubbin and Olson opined . . . otherwise. They explained that regardless of when it occurs, death is actually non-normative. This is because it remains an unexpected and largely undesired event. It must be understood that it is not the actual dying that determines whether it is normative but the context and effects of the death. For example, the death of an [82-year-old] man who is the main caretaker or guardian of a [15-year-old] boy may be ‘normative’ for the man but would be very disruptive for the adolescent boy.” 2

David had reigned for thirty years as king of Israel. After many years of battles, political intrigue, multiple wives, and many children, he was now an old man. Scripture records that his days “drew nigh that he should die” (1 Kings 2:1). David’s family would have to make significant adjustments after his death, including adjusting to the leadership of a new king.

We are reminded throughout the Bible that death came as a result of sin. Death is an enemy to humans. From the moment Adam and Eve sinned, death came upon all humankind (Rom. 5:12) and has caused irreparable damage to countless families throughout the existence of humankind.

The good news is that Scripture assures us that death itself will one day be destroyed (1 Cor. 15:26). One day death itself will have a funeral. That funeral will be the last one. So while human beings are subject to death on a planet filled with sin, there is hope we can hold on to: Jesus has already defeated the enemy called “death” through His own death on the cross and subsequent glorious resurrection. Jesus declares that He has the “keys of hell and of death” (Rev. 1:18); therefore, in preparing for death, we must have a relationship with the giver of eternal life.

---

<sup>1. Oladayo A. Afolabi, “Death, Grief, and Family Dynamics: The Impact of Family Member’s Death and Delayed Grief Resolution on the Family System,” May 2, 2014, p. 1, https://papers.ssrn .com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2826483.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid.</sup>

_Durwin S. Humphrey, Georgetown Guyana_