---
title:  Prepared for Birth or Parenting?
date:  17/04/2019
---

**How-to**: Judg. 13:7; 1 Sam. 1:27; Luke 1:6, 13–17, 39–55

It is said that if you fail to prepare, you’re prepared to fail. Well, in parenting it’s no different. When we look at parenting in our society, it appears as though parenting is just preparing for the birth of a child, thus failing to acknowledge that it’s a lifelong investment. Life is precious; it’s a divine gift and blessing from God.

Many families grapple with the thought and reality of not having children of their own. Could it be a curse? Could it be a blessing in disguise? Could it be a moment of waiting? Whatever the reason, the Bible tells us of a woman named Hannah who prayed earnestly to God for a child (1 Sam. 1:27), and by God’s grace, her request was granted.

Many times, after the birth of a child, parents relax on daily earnest prayers for their children and fail to firmly and lovingly instill right Christian standards from early childhood, paving the way for great sorrow. Here are some steps to preparing for parenthood, both prenatal and postnatal:

Pray and listen to God’s guidance. Samson’s mother was given clear instructions in the upbringing of Samson: “But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing: for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb to the day of his death” (Judg. 13:7). God speaks to us through His Word; and as Samson’s parents heeded God’s commands, so should all parents.

Stay connected to God and model a Christlike character. Actions speak louder than words; and as such, parents should remain in close relationship with God to model the Christlike character they desire in their child or children. Like Elizabeth and Mary, the parent’s relationship with God should spur natural praises to Him for His blessings (Luke 1:37–55).

Keep on training. Deuteronomy 6:7 reminds parents to never give up teaching and guiding their children in the ways of righteousness. And by so doing, the light of God’s presence will radiate in the lives of both parents and children, and souls can be won for the kingdom of God.

**React**

`1. Why is there a dire need for God’s guidance when preparing for and during parenting?`

`2. How can we better prepare ourselves to be the best parent we can be?`

---

_Andrew Sparman, Georgetown, Guyana_