---
title:  Life Expectancy (expect- N-see) . . . Are You Ready?
date:  18/04/2019
---

**Opinion**: Gal. 6:7, Ps. 71:17, 18

Where I am from, the young go to school and those advanced in age work to take care of the young and seldom get time to look after themselves. In speaking to a senior citizen one afternoon about retirement, he relayed that, for the better part of his life, he had worked to save money so that when he retires he can enjoy all the benefits of his hard labor. He firmly believed in the Bible verse that declares, “Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap” (Gal. 6:7). We usually speak of retirement plans that compensate for houses, lands and savings, and the things that we wish to experience in life—we basically store up treasures in this world—many times not even considering God’s will. We are rarely ever concerned with influencing the lives of others positively by sharing God’s goodness in our lives. The sad fact is that today, many persons do not live with the intention of growing old; rather, they live with the sole intention of surviving in this world from day to day.

In Psalm 71:17, 18, King David acknowledges God’s steadfast hand throughout his life from his very youth and pleads with God in his old age to continue to guide and help him. He asks God to allow his life, even in his old age, to be a testimony of God’s grace and mercy. David, rather than asking God to preserve him so that he may enjoy his riches on earth, asks God to allow his life to paint a picture of God’s goodness: “O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works. Now also when I am old and greyheaded, O God, forsake me not; until I have shewed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power to everyone that is to come.” We are called to be prepared throughout our lives, from its beginning to its very end, knowing that God has a grand plan for us. It is with this hope that we should plan our lives boldly, ensuring that we leave room for God’s will to manifest. While we plan our lives and prepare for our old age, we, like David, should aim to praise God and share Him with those who will come after us. It is the work of every Christian to be like David and work to impart the love and knowledge of God’s goodness and grace by simply asking God to let our lives be a testimony.

**React**

`1. How does preparation for old age prepare an individual for heaven?`

`2. How do your life expectations prepare your mind for the Second Coming?`

---

_Jamol Pompey, Georgetown Guyana_