---
title:  Comfort and Change
date:  19/04/2019
---

**Exploration**: Isa. 43:19; Jer. 29:11

**Conclude**

Life is a journey of turmoil and unexpected events; adaptation and growth. Our human existence is characterized by and will always be fashioned by our choices and our response to change. For unbelievers, it is merely living to die, existing to experience only perfect bliss while being seemingly independent creators of their own destiny, disconnected from the Almighty. However, for Christians, God expects us to be in a constant state of faithful readiness for each phase of life’s journey. Though we will never get accustomed to the inevitable, God has created us with a natural instinct to deal with our challenges by staying connected to Him and trusting Him to decide our paths.

**Consider**

- Creating a chart titled “My Future Under God.” The chart is to follow a course of ten years and consist of goals to be accomplished within that time frame. For each goal, seek God’s direction by asking Him whether that is the path He wants you to follow.
- Listening to the song “My Life Is in Your Hands” by Kathy Troccoli, which reminds us that we are not without hope when we place our future in God’s hands.
- Thinking about all the sacrifices that you’ll have to make when choosing to trust in God.
- Engaging in the “Comfort and Change” exercise with friends. Ask friends to cross their arms. When they are comfortable, ask them to cross their arms the other way. Once they’ve done this, ask them why the second attempt might have left them feeling uncomfortable, even though it’s basically the same action.
- Making a list of areas of your life that you think may be too difficult to accept changes in and asking God to grant you peace should changes in these areas ever materialize.
- Making a list of all the positive changes that have occurred in your life over the past year and thanking God for them. Recognize that God knows best and His goodness ought to be acknowledged.


**Connect**

Numbers 23:19; 2 Corinthians 4:16–18; 2 Peter 3:9.

Ellen G. White, Mind, Character, and Personality, vol. 2, section 14: Thoughts and Their Influences, chap. 72, “Thought Habits.”

---

_Trizanna Atkins, Georgetown, Guyana_