---
title:  God’s Question
date:   05/12/2016
---

### God’s Question

After what must have seemed to Job like a very long silence, God finally speaks to him, even if what He first said might not have been what Job wanted to hear.

`What was the first question that God asked Job, and what was implied in that question? Job 38:2.`

All through the Bible we find God asking humans questions. This is not because He doesn’t know the answers already. Instead, as a good teacher often does, God asks questions because they are an effective way to get us to think about our situation, to make us confront ourselves, to help us work through issues and come to the proper conclusions. The questions, then, that God asks are not to teach the Lord something that He didn’t already understand. Rather, they are often asked in order to help people learn things that perhaps they needed to understand better. God’s questions are a rhetorical device to help reach people with truth.

Read the following questions from God.What do you think God’s purpose was in asking those questions? What point was He making?

`Gen. 3:11`

`Gen. 4:9`

`1 Kings 19:9`

`Acts 9:4`

`Matt. 16:13`

Job had a lot to say about God, and the Lord obviously wanted him to see that, in fact, there was a lot he didn’t know or understand about his Creator. In many ways, God’s opening question to Job parallels some of the words that these men had said to him as well (see Job 8:1, 2; 11:1–3; 15:1–3).
       
`If God were to ask you a question about the state of your life right now, what do you think He would ask, and what would you answer? What do the question and the answer teach you about yourself?`