---
title:  The Invitation To Rest
date:  21/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 1:1–31; Exodus 20:8–11; Exodus 16:14–31; Deuteronomy 5:12–15; Psalm 92.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “God blessed the seventh day and made it holy He blessed it because on that day he rested from all the work he had done” (Genesis 2:3, NIrV).

CAN YOU MAKE A PICTURE IN YOUR MIND of God making the earth and the sky? Try, if you can, to see the light starting to shine where there was only dark. Or the first birds flying into the sky. Or Adam breathing his first breath. Or Eve coming alive after God makes her from a bone. Wow! We cannot begin to understand how God made all these things!

What does God do next? At first, the thing God does may not be as exciting to our eyes as whales that leap in the sea or birds with bright feathers. God simply makes a day, the seventh day. Then God makes it special. Before people had busy lives or knew what stress was, God makes a day to help us remember to rest. God wants this day to be a time for us to stop and enjoy life. God wants us to celebrate His gifts of grass, air, animals, water, and people. Most of all, God wants us to enjoy time with Jesus. Jesus is the Maker of every good gift.

The Sabbath is an invitation to rest. This invitation does not end when Adam and Eve fall into sin. Long after Adam and Eve leave Eden, God continues to invite people to rest each Sabbath. That is why God made the Sabbath a part of every week. The Sabbath is a part of time itself. This week, we will study the invitation from God to rest, again and again, every seventh day.