---
title:  The First Six Days Before There Was Rest 
date:  22/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God is there from the start of life on earth. His words make things appear and come alive from nothing. First, God separates day from night. Next, His words make sky and water appear on the second day. On the third day, God makes dry land and plants. So, God starts time and makes dry land appear in the first three days. Then God spends the next three days after that filling the earth. On day four, God makes the sun to shine at day and the moon at night. Most people during Bible times believed that the sun and moon were gods. But the Bible shows that the sun and moon are not gods. The sun and moon are under the command of God.

Moses tells us what happens during days 5 and 6 (Genesis 1:20–31). He writes in beautiful language. Birds, fish, and land animals fill the space that God makes.

`What does God say about His work each day? For the answer, read Genesis 1:1–31.`

God makes the earth perfect. The earth is filled with animals. After each day, God says that everything He makes is “good.”

`How are humans different from everything else God makes? For the answer, read Genesis 1:26, 27 and Genesis 2:7, 21–24.`

God bends down and starts to shape mud. He makes the mud into a man. God makes the man look the same as Himself. This act shows us how much God loves us and wants to be close to us. God breathes into the nose of Adam. Then Adam comes alive. Next, God makes Eve from a rib bone from Adam. God makes her in a special way to show us how close married people should be. A husband and wife should be one in heart, mind, and body. God gave humans marriage as a gift.

When God is done, He looks at everything He made. “And he saw that everything was very good” (Genesis 1:31, ERV).

`The Bible story about how life on earth started is very different from what most people today believe. What should this tell us about how much we need to depend upon the Bible to show us truth?`