---
title:  The Command To Rest 
date:  23/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The earth and sky may be “very good” (Genesis 1:31, ERV). But the work of God is not finished yet. His work ends with rest and a special blessing. God blesses the seventh-day Sabbath. “God blessed the seventh day and made it a holy day. He made it special because on that day he rested from all the work he did while creating [making] the world [the sky and earth]” (Genesis 2:3, ERV).

The Sabbath is part of everything God made. God made the Sabbath a “place” where people can stop working and meet. Then, people can rest with the One who made them.

Sadly, sin came and changed everything about life on earth. We can no longer talk face-to-face with God. Sin made our lives hard. Women suffer awful pain when their children are born. Work is hard. Our friendships are often messy. Even so, the Sabbath continues to be an everlasting promise. The Sabbath shows us who made us. The Sabbath promises us God will make us new again. If people needed the Sabbath before sin, how much more do we need it now?!

Many years after Adam and Eve sin, God frees His children from slavery in Egypt. Then He tells His people again about the seventh-day Sabbath.

`Read Exodus 20:8–11. What does this commandment teach us about the Sabbath and why it is so important? What does the Sabbath show us about how and when we were made?`

In Exodus 20:8–11, God asks us to remember He made us. Many people today believe we were made by chance and natural forces that do not care about us. But the Bible shows us God made us. God wants to be our Friend. The Israelites must have been surprised to learn this news. They were slaves. The Egyptians made the Israelites feel they were not worth anything. But God did not care what the Egyptians thought. He loved His children anyway. Every Sabbath, God asked His children to remember He made them.

“The Sabbath shows us the work God did to make this earth. So, the Sabbath is a sign or word picture. This sign shows us the love and power of Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 281, adapted.

`Why is it important for us to remember who made us?`