---
title:  New And Exciting Changes 
date:  24/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

After 40 years, all the old Israelites have finally died. Their children now stop wandering in the desert. The children are different from their parents. The children saw the mistakes their parents made. The children saw their parents had no faith. So, the children wandered in the desert with their parents until their parents died.

The new group of Israelites sees God blesses them in many ways. The children have the Holy Tent of worship in the center of their camp. They also see the cloud every day where God is hidden inside and watches over them. When the cloud moves, the Israelites know it is time to pack up camp and follow the cloud. The cloud gives the Israelites shade during the day. At night, the cloud shines bright. Then the cloud gives them light and heat. The cloud helps them remember always that God loves and cares for them.

`What other example does God give the Israelites to help them remember to rest on the Sabbath? For the answer, read Exodus 16:14–31.`

Do you see how these verses show that the seventh-day Sabbath was kept holy before God gave the Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai?

So, what is happening in Exodus 16:14–31 anyway?

God gives His people special food in the desert. This food is named manna. God gives His people manna every day. The manna helps the people remember daily that He cares for them. In a very real way, the miracle of the manna shows the Israelites that God takes care of their needs. Every day, the manna falls from the sky. Then when the sun comes out, the manna melts. Any time someone tries to collect and save manna for the next day, what happens? The manna rots and stinks. But on Friday something wonderful happens. God gives His people enough manna for Friday and Saturday. The leftover manna from Friday stays fresh on Sabbath!

At this time, Israel already has the laws for worship that are written in Leviticus and Numbers. But Moses wants the people to remember who they are and why God chose them. Moses does not want the people to make the same mistakes their parents made. So, Moses calls everyone to come together. He tells them again their history. He also tells them the laws God gave them (read Deuteronomy 5:6-22).