---
title:  Another Reason To Rest 
date:  25/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Israelites camp on the eastern side of the Jordan River. The Israelites won the lands that belonged to the king of Bashan and two kings of the Amorites. Moses talks to the Israelites after these mighty wars. Moses tells the Israelites to remember the agreement God made with their parents at Sinai. This agreement is not just for their parents. This agreement is for them, too. Then Moses says the Ten Commandments again.

`What do Exodus 20:8–11 and Deuteronomy 5:12–15 show us about the Sabbath commandment? In what ways are Exodus 20:8–11 and Deuteronomy 5:12–15 different from each other?`

In Exodus 20:8, the commandment starts with the word “ ‘remember’ ” (NIrV; NLV). Deuteronomy 5:12 starts with the word “ ‘keep’” (NIrV). In Exodus 20:8, God tells the Israelites to remember they had been slaves. This new group of Israelites spent 40 years in the desert. They grew up free. But that is only because God saved their parents from slavery. The Sabbath commandment helps the children to remember that God freed them and their parents: “ ‘The LORD your God brought you out of Egypt with his great [mighty] power and made you free’” (Deuteronomy 5:15, ERV).

Now the people of Israel stand for a second time on the border of the Promised Land. This group of Israelites is just as helpless and powerless as their parents were 40 years ago. These new Israelites need God to help them just as much as their parents needed help.

The Sabbath helps the Israelites remember that the God who freed them from slavery can help them win their land. But first, God wants His people to remember the Sabbath day because the Sabbath shows that God made His people free (Deuteronomy 5:15). Of course, the Sabbath commandment in Deuteronomy 5 shows people that God made them, too. In many ways, God made the people of Israel new when He freed them from Egypt (read Isaiah 43:15 for more on this idea).

The story of the Exodus is a word picture for freedom from sin. We can see that the Sabbath is a word picture that shows us the work Jesus did to make us and save us. So, the Sabbath really shows us Jesus.

`Read John 1:1–13. What do these verses teach us about Jesus as the One who made us and saves us?`