---
title:  Keeping The Sabbath 
date:  26/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God commands His people to keep the Sabbath day holy.

`What should we do to keep the Sabbath holy? For the answer, read Psalm 92 and Isaiah 58:13.`

When we keep the Sabbath, we celebrate the work God did to make this earth and us. We also celebrate the work of God as our Savior. So, the Sabbath should be a joyful time. We should be happy in the Lord. The Sabbath should not be a time of gloom and dark thoughts.

What else does remembering the Sabbath mean? We do not start remembering the Sabbath on the seventh day. We should remember the Sabbath day all week long. We should get ready for it all week, too. We must plan ahead so that we can stop working on time. Then we can keep the Sabbath holy when it comes. We also must get ready for the Sabbath on Friday (Mark 15:42). Then we will enjoy the Sabbath even more.

`What important part about Sabbath keeping does Leviticus 19:3 show us?`

Sabbath is a time for family. So, Sabbath keeping also means we spend time with our families and friends. The Sabbath also includes rest for the people who work with and for us and even our work animals (read Exodus 20:8–11). Sabbath and family belong together.

Sabbath keeping also means worshiping God together with our church family. Jesus worshiped God with people while He was on this earth. Jesus also led out in worship, too. (For more information about this topic, read Leviticus 23:3; Luke 4:16; and Hebrews 10:25).

During the week, we often feel rushed and so busy. Our life can feel as if it is moving very fast. But deep in our hearts, we have a wish for real Sabbath rest. We want to spend time with the One who made us, Jesus. So, we need to remember to stop all our business ahead of time and plan to spend time with God. Our friendship with God will grow strong. Then we can enter into real Sabbath rest with God.

`What has been your own experience with Sabbath rest and the blessings that come from keeping the Sabbath?`