---
title:  Further Thought
date:  27/08/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“God gave to people the Sabbath to help them remember that He made the sky and the earth. God made the Sabbath to help us see Him in everything He made. The Sabbath is an invitation. The Sabbath invites us to see the glory of God in nature. . . . On the holy rest day, more than on any other day, we should study the messages that God writes for us in nature. . . . As we come close to the heart of nature, Jesus shows us that He is real. Jesus talks to our hearts about His peace and love.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 25, 26, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Some Christians believe that God made the earth and the sky many billions of years ago. Then God let all the plant and animal life that we see today happen on its own by slow changes over many long ages of time. Sadly, even some Adventists accept this explanation about how life started. How does the Sabbath show us that this false idea never can agree with Seventh-day Adventist teachings? The Bible shows us that God made the Sabbath after He made the earth in six real days, right? So, why should we even bother keeping a 24-hour, real seventh-day Sabbath holy if the Sabbath is really only celebrating the start of life after billions and billions of years?`

`Some people argue that God does not care about the day we keep holy. They say, “All that matters is that we keep one day of rest a week, right?” What will you say to this person? Other people say that Jesus Himself is our Sabbath rest. “So, we do not need to keep any day as a day of rest.” What answer will you give this person, too?`

`How can our keeping the Sabbath holy help us to remember that God frees us from sin? At the same time, how can we avoid making the Sabbath only about the things we can and cannot do?`

`Think about these two different reasons for keeping the Sabbath. (1) Some people say that our keeping the Seventh-day Sabbath is really about trying to work our way to heaven by our good behavior. (2) Other people say that when we rest on the seventh day, we show that we cannot save ourselves at all. We trust in Jesus to save us. Why is the first idea false and not the second idea?`