---
title:  The Power of the Gospel to Unite Believers
date:   08/07/2017
---

#### Read for this week’s lesson
Galatians 2:1–14; 1 Corinthians 1:10–13; Genesis 17:1–21; John 8:31–36; Colossians 3:11.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “If any of these things has happened to you, then agree with one another. Have the same love. Be one in spirit and in the way you think and act. By doing this, you will make my joy complete”(Philippians 2:2, NIrV).

John Calvin was a church reformer. A reformer works to improve things. Calvin believed that the devil used two “weapons” to attack the church: (1) disagreements and (2) division or splitting up the church.Calvin warned that Christians should avoid anything that divides the church.

But is keeping the church together more important than the truth? In answer to this question, think about Martin Luther. He was also a reformer. Luther was brought to trial at the Diet of Worms for believing that we are saved by faith alone.

“But suppose Luther chose at his trial to give up his beliefs so that the church would not split apart. Then Satan and his followers would have won a great victory. But Luther’s firm stand for the truth set the church free. It started a new and better time for the church.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy [War Between Christ and Satan], page 166.

In Galatians 2:1–14, Paul does all he can to keep the church together. But he refuses to allow the gospel to be weakened in order to have agreement. There is room for different ideas in the church. But the gospel should not be weakened to keep the church together.