---
title:  The importance of agreement
date:   09/07/2017
---

_1 Corinthians 1:10–13_

`How important for Paul is agreement in the church? How does 1 Corinthians 1:10–13 help answer this question?`

In Galatians 2:1, 2, Paul turns his attention to another attack against his beliefs. The false teachers in Galatia said that Paul’s gospel was not in agreement with what Peter and the other apostles taught. Apostles were the twelve men Jesus chose to spread the gospel. They served as leaders and teachers in the church.The false teachers said that Paul went against the apostles’ teachings. They accused Paul of being someone who caused trouble and could not be controlled.

Paul answers this attack by telling a story of a trip he made to Jerusalem some 14 years after he became a believer. We really cannot be sure when the trip took place. But we do know that no trip in Bible times was ever easy. It was 300 miles from Antioch to Jerusalem. So the trip would have taken at least three weeks. Paul would have faced many dangers along the way. But Paul still made the trip. He did not go because the apostles asked him to. He went because the Holy Spirit told him to go. He arrived in Jerusalem. And then he set his gospel before the apostles.

Why did Paul do that? It was not because Paul had any doubt about what he was teaching. He did not need the apostles to approve of his message or accept him. After all, Paul had been preaching this same gospel for 14 years. But Paul did want the apostles’ support and encouragement.

So the lie that Paul’s message was different was not just an attack on Paul. It was an attack on the apostles and the church. Agreement between the apostles was very important. A difference in ideas between the church and Paul over his work would be very bad. It would result in a split between Jewish Christians and non-Jewish believers. Such a split would “divide the church of Christ. And all the work that Paul had done to spread the gospel to the non-Jewish world would be undone.”—Adapted, F. F. Bruce, The Letter to the Galatians (Grand Rapids, MI: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1982), page 111.

`What are the problems in the church today that could weaken or divide it? How do we deal with these problems?`