---
title:  False teachings and false brothers
date:   10/07/2017
---

_Galatians 2:3–5_

`Paul and some of the Jewish Christians fought over circumcision. Circumcision is the custom of cutting off the skin at the end of the sex organ of a man or a boy. Read Genesis 17:1–22; Galatians 2:3–5; and Acts 15:1, 5. It is easy to see from these verses why some Jewish Christians thought that non-Jewish believers should accept circumcision.Why might they think that way?`

Circumcision was a sign of the special relationship God made with Abraham. Abraham was the father of the Jewish nation. Only males from Abraham’s line had to go through circumcision. But all God’s people were invited to join in the special relationship with God. The sign of circumcision was given to Abraham in Genesis 17. It happened after Abraham had a child with his wife’s slave. After all, God had promised Abraham a son. And Abraham thought he would “help” God out by making the promise come true.

Circumcision was a fitting sign of the covenant. The covenant was the agreement between God and His people. Circumcision reminded the Jews that the best-laid plans of humans can never do what God has promised. Outward circumcision was a symbol of God’s saving work in the soul of the sinner (read Deuteronomy 10:16; Romans 2:29). Circumcision also reminded God’s people to let go of their trust in themselves and to depend fully on Him instead.

But in Paul’s time, circumcision became a sign of what it meant to be a Jew. About 150 years before Jesus’ birth, some Jews forced all the Jews and non-Jews in Palestine to go through circumcision. Some Jews even believed that circumcision was a “passport” to being saved. This belief can be seen in such ancient sayings as, “ ‘Men who accept circumcision do not go down into Gehenna [hell].’ ”

To think Paul was against circumcision would be a mistake. Paul was against the false teachers who said, in Acts 15:1, that non-Jewish believers, or Gentiles, must go through circumcision to be saved. So the problem was not really about circumcision. It was about how we are saved. Paul said salvation comes from faith in Christ alone. But the false teachers said it comes by obeying the law.

`Maybe today we do not argue over the need to be circumcised to be saved. But what do we argue over instead?`