---
title:  Agreement in spite of differences
date:   11/07/2017
---

_Galatians 2:7_

`In Galatians 2:4,Paul says,“Some people had slipped in among us. They had pretended to be believers. They wanted to find out about the freedom we have because we belong to Christ Jesus. They wanted to make us slaves again” (NIrV). What are Christians free from? For the answer, read John 8:31–36; Romans 6:6, 7; Romans 8:2, 3; Galatians 3:23–25; Galatians 4:7, 8; and Hebrews 2:14, 15. How do we experience this freedom ourselves?`

Freedom is an important idea for Paul. It describes for him the Christian experience. He uses the word more often than any other writer in the New Testament. And in his letter to the Galatians, he uses the words “free” and “freedom” many times.

Freedom is an important idea for the Christian too. For the Christian, it means to be free in Christ. It is the chance to live a faithful life of love to God without being held back from doing so. This new life includes freedom from three things: (1) the slavery of sin, (2) the guilt of breaking the law, and (3) the power of death.

`The apostles accepted the fact that God gave Paul a special work to do, just as He gave Peter (Galatians 2:7, NIrV). Both men were sent to preach the same gospel to different groups of people. What does this fact tell us about how the gospel brings us all together as one in spite of our differences?`

The apostles believed God chose Paul to preach the gospel to the Gentiles. In the same way, God chose Peter to preach to the Jews. Both men preached the same gospel. But how they shared it depended on the people they tried to reach. “The gospel would bring all believers together as one in spite of differences in their backgrounds. This oneness, or unity, is what it means for Christians to be in agreement.”—Adapted, James D. G. Dunn, The Epistle [Letter] to the Galatians (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson Publishers, Inc., 1993), page 106.

`How open should we be to new forms of sharing the gospel? What forms of witnessing make you nervous, and why? How do we know if a new method is good?`