---
title:  Clash in Antioch
date:   12/07/2017
---

_Galatians 2:11–13_

Peter made a visit to Antioch. Antioch was the place of the first Gentile church. It was also the headquarters for Paul’s work to reach the Gentiles. In Antioch, Peter ate with Gentile believers. But then some Jewish Christians arrived from James. Peter was afraid of what they would think of him for eating with Gentiles. So he stopped.

`Read Galatians 2:11–13 and Acts 10:28. Why should Peter have known it was wrong to stop what he was doing? What does his action tell us about the power that customs and beliefs handed down from the past have over our lives?`

Some think Peter and the other Jews with him stopped following the Jewish food laws of the Old Testament. But this idea is not true. Suppose they had stopped. Then there would be a record of it somewhere.But there is not.And such a choice would have caused a big uproar in the church. So it seems the problem here is really about eating with Gentiles. Many Jews thought Gentiles were not pure. So they avoided being social with Gentiles as much as possible.

Peter once felt this way about Gentiles too. But God gave him a vision. Afterward, Peter went to the house of Cornelius, an officer in the Roman army. Then Peter said to him, “ ‘God has shown me that I should not say anyone is not pure and ‘clean’ ” (Acts 10:28, NIrV). This verse shows us Peter knew better. But he was so afraid of upsetting his own countrymen that he went back to his old ways. How sad that culture and beliefs handed down from the past had such a strong pull on Peter’s life!

But Paul sets Peter straight. In Galatians 2:13, Paul says Peter’s actions are “not honest” (NIrV). The NKJV Bible translates these same words as “hypocrisy.” Hypocrisy comes from the Greek word hypokrisis. Hypocrisy is the act of doing the opposite of what you believe or say. It means being two-faced. Paul says, “Even Barnabas was led astray” (NIrV) by Peter’s hypocrisy. Strong words from one man of God to another!

`Why is it so easy to be a hypocrite—a person who says one thing but does another? Could it be that we are blind to our own faults more than the faults of others? In what ways are we dishonest in our own lives? And how can we learn to see this hypocrisy and then get rid of it?`