---
title:  Paul’s cause for worry
date:   13/07/2017
---

_Galatians 2:11–14_

The situation in Antioch was surely tense. Paul and Peter were two leaders in the church. And they were in open disagreement. Paul holds nothing back when scolding Peter.

`Read Galatians 2:11–14. What reasons does Paul give for scolding Peter in front of others?`

In Paul’s view, the problem was not that Peter chose to eat with the Jews from Jerusalem. The rules of hospitality required Peter to do so. Instead, the problem was about weakening the power of the gospel message itself.

`Read Galatians 3:28 and Colossians 3:11. How do these verses help us understand Paul’s strong words to Peter?`

We read how Paul met in Jerusalem with Peter and the other apostles. They agreed that Gentiles could enjoy all the blessings of Christ without circumcision. But Peter’s behavior puts that agreement in danger. Before this time, both Jewish and Gentile Christians joined together in open fellowship.But now the church in Antioch is divided.And the split could break apart all churches in the future.

In Paul’s view, Peter’s behavior sends a negative message to the Gentile Christians. Peter’s actions make it seem that the Gentile Christians are not equal to Jewish believers. Paul believes Peter’s actions would cause Gentiles to feel that they needed to be circumcised to experience full fellowship in the church. So, Paul says to Peter, “ ‘You are a Jew. . . . But you live like one who is not. So why do you force Gentiles to follow Jewish ways?’ ” (Galatians 2:14, NIrV). The wording “to follow Jewish ways”also can be translated as“to Judaize.”This word means “to adopt a Jewish way of life.” It was used to mean Gentiles who followed Jewish traditions and rules. Paul’s enemies in Galatia were often called “the Judaizers.”

`What Peter did was bad enough. But Barnabas got caught up in doing it too. Both men knew better than to act the way they did. What a clear example of the power of “peer pressure”! Peer pressure is the feeling that you must do the same things other people do to be liked or respected by them. How can we protect ourselves from being led in the wrong direction by people around us?`