---
title:  Additional thought
date:   14/07/2017
---

To learn more about the topic of being united in the church in spite of differences, read Ellen G. White, “Investigation [Careful Study] of New Light [Truth],” pages 45, 47, in Counsels [Advice] to Writers and Editors.

“Even the best men will make terrible mistakes if they are not led by God. A person with a lot of power has more opportunity than most to turn others away from what is good and true. He can damage many hearts and minds. So he must be careful to follow the Lord. At Antioch, Peter failed to be fair and honest. Paul had to stand up face-toface against Peter’s poor example. This clash is recorded in the Bible so others may learn from it. It is a warning to people who hold great power. It is to help them not to fail to be fair and honest. It is a lesson to stay true to the law of God.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 6, page 1108.

### Discussion questions

`1. Few people enjoy a face-to-face challenge with another person. But sometimes it is needed. When should a church punish wrongdoing and those who refuse to be corrected?`

`2. The more the church grows, the more it will be made up of people or things different from one another. What steps can the church take to make sure that what unites us is not weakened or lost sight of in the midst of such differences? How can we learn to accept and even enjoy the different ways of life and customs among us? And how can we do these things and still stay united?`

`3. What should not change about the gospel when sharing it with people who live differently than we do? At the same time, what can be changed? How can we learn to tell the difference between the two?`

**Summary**: Some Jewish Christians insisted that Gentiles must be circumcised to become true followers of Christ. This belief almost divided the New Testament church in half. But the apostles worked together to stop this threat from happening. They put their differences aside. And then they were able to help the church stay united and faithful to the truth of the gospel.
