---
title:  'Winsome Witnesses: The Power of Personal Testimony'
date:  04/07/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Mark 5:15–20, Mark 16:1–11, Acts 4:1–20, 1 John 1:1–3, Gal. 2:20, Acts 26:1–32.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard’ ” (Acts 4:20, NKJV).

There is unusual power in a personal testimony. When our hearts are warmed by Christ’s love and we are changed by His grace, we have something significant to say about Him. It is one thing to share what Jesus has done for someone else. It is quite another to share what He has done for us, personally.

It is difficult to argue against personal experience. People may debate your theology or your interpretation of a text or even scoff at religion in general. But when an individual can say, “I once was hopeless but now have hope; I was filled with guilt but now have peace; I was purposeless but now have purpose,” even skeptics are impacted by the power of the gospel.

Although some people may experience sudden, dramatic conversions like the apostle Paul’s on the Damascus Road, more often conversion occurs as a person has a growing recognition of the preciousness of Jesus, a deep appreciation for His amazing grace, and a supreme sense of gratitude for the salvation He freely offers. Christ radically refocuses our lives. It is this witness that the world so desperately needs and longs for.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, July 11._

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The apostle John passed his early life in the society of the uncultivated fishermen of Galilee. He did not enjoy the training of the schools; but by association with Christ, the Great Teacher, he obtained the highest education which mortal man can receive. He drank eagerly at the fountain of wisdom, and then sought to lead others to that “well of water springing up into everlasting life” (John 4:14). The simplicity of his words, the sublime power of the truths he uttered, and the spiritual fervor that characterized his teachings gave him access to all classes. ... He seemed to be constantly imbued with the Holy Spirit. He sought to bring the thoughts of the people up to grasp the unseen. The wisdom with which he spoke, caused his words to drop as the dew, softening and subduing the soul. {SL 61.1}

We are far behind what we should be in Christian experience. We are backward in bearing the testimony that should be given through sanctified lips. Even when sitting at the meal table, Christ taught truths that brought comfort and courage to the hearts of His hearers. When His love abides in the soul as a living principle, there will come forth from the treasure house of the heart words suitable to the occasion—not light, trifling words, but uplifting words, words of spiritual power. {CT 554.1}

He whose heart is fixed to serve God will find opportunity to witness for Him. Difficulties will be powerless to hinder him who is determined to seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness. In the strength gained by prayer and a study of the word, he will seek virtue and forsake vice. Looking to Jesus, the Author and Finisher of the faith, who endured the contradiction of sinners against Himself, the believer will willingly brave contempt and derision. And help and grace sufficient for every circumstance are promised by Him whose word is truth. His everlasting arms encircle the soul that turns to Him for aid. In His care we may rest safely, saying, “What time I am afraid, I will trust in Thee.” Psalm 56:3. To all who put their trust in Him, God will fulfill His promise. {AA 467.1}

"All true children of God will reveal to the world their union with Christ and with their brethren. Those in whose hearts Christ abides will bear the fruit of brotherly love. They will realize that as members of God’s family they are pledged to cultivate, cherish, and perpetuate Christian love and fellowship, in spirit, words, and action. {SD 293.2}

The most powerful evidence a man can give that he has been born again and is a new man in Christ Jesus, is the manifestation of love for his brethren, the doing of Christlike deeds. This is the most wonderful witness that can be borne in favor of Christianity, and will win souls to the truth. {SD 293.4}"