---
title:  Further Thought
date:  10/07/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘Almost Thou Persuadest Me,’ ” pp. 433–438, in The Acts of the Apostles.

The essence of the Christian life is a relationship with Jesus that is so rich and full that we long to share it. As important as correct doctrine is, it cannot substitute for a life transformed by grace and changed by love. Ellen G. White makes it plain when she states: “The Saviour knew that no argument, however logical, would melt hard hearts or break through the crust of worldliness and selfishness. He knew that His disciples must receive the heavenly endowment; that the gospel would be effective only as it was proclaimed by hearts made warm and lips made eloquent by a living knowledge of Him who is the way, the truth, and the life.”—The Acts of the Apostles, p. 31. In the book The Desire of Ages, she adds this powerful thought: “The wonderful love of Christ will melt and subdue hearts, when the mere reiteration of doctrines would accomplish nothing.”—Page 826.

There are those who have the idea that giving their personal testimony is about trying to convince others of the truths they have discovered in the Word of God. Although it is important at the appropriate time to share the truths of God’s word, our personal testimony has much more to do with the freedom from guilt, the peace, the mercy, the forgiveness, the strength, hope, and joy we have found in the gift of eternal life Jesus so freely offers.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why do you think our personal testimony is so powerful in influencing others? How have the testimonies of others impacted you and your own experience?`

`In class, talk about your answer to Wednesday’s final question. Why is a daily experience with the Lord so important, not just to our witness, but to our own personal faith, as well?`

`Of course, a powerful testimony can be an effective witness. At the same time, why is a godly life such an important part of our witness?`

`Share your personal testimony with the class. Remember that you are sharing what Christ has done for you and what He means to you today. What difference does Jesus make in your life?`