---
title: 'Trusting God through Prayer'
date: 10/05/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** 1 Samuel 1

What’s your prayer life like? How often do you pray? How fervently? How expectantly? Are your prayers always asking for something, or do you praise God in your prayers as well? Do you offer a prayer in the morning before you eat and perhaps partway through your busy day? Perhaps you’ve been part of a regular prayer group or even experienced what it’s like to pray around the clock. Have you experienced the power and presence of God through prayer that changes everything in your life?

Prayer is the connection between us (the branches) and Jesus (the Vine). “If we would grow and flourish, we must continually draw sap and nourishment from the Living Vine; for separated from the Vine we have no strength.”<sup>1</sup> This is the blessing of abiding prayer. God hears us, and He always answers in His time and in His perfect way—though not always in the way we expect. It’s tempting to become discouraged when God doesn’t answer our prayers according to our plans or timeline. When we experience delay and disappointment, rather than losing our confidence in God, we should take the opportunity to strengthen our faith and learn to trust more deeply.

Perhaps you’ve prayed about something for a long time, maybe even years, and it feels as though God hasn’t heard your prayers at all. The Bible tells us to “ask, and it shall be given you” (Matt. 7:7), “if we ask anything according to His will” (1 John 5:14). God may grant our petitions immediately. He may delay the answer until the right time. He may answer the request in an unexpected way that we don’t immediately recognize. Or, He may choose not to give us the thing we ask for, knowing it’s not in our best interest. Seemingly unanswered prayers challenge us to submit to God and trust Him.

The Bible is full of stories of people who clung to God through long periods of praying and waiting. Many had to completely surrender their desires when God’s will differed from what they asked for. David surrendered his ambitions when God denied his request to build the temple (1 Chron. 17). Jesus submitted to drinking the bitter cup despite praying three times that He might be spared (Matt. 26:39–44). Paul accepted his infirmity after praying three times that he might be healed (2 Cor. 12:7–10). People in the Bible sometimes felt that God was at a distance and that their prayers went unheard (Ps. 22:1, 2). Even the most faithful men and women of God have had their faith severely tested when God said no or required them to wait.

Many people think of prayer as a transaction where we give God our plans and requests and wait for Him to give us what we want. A deeper understanding of prayer recognizes it as a time when we surrender our wills to God and embrace His plans for us. The story of Hannah is one of disappointment, delay, and sorrow. She endured years of questioning and waiting. However, her bitter experiences drew her close to God in prayer. Her unfavorable circumstances taught her how to depend on God in ways that many people never learn. Her story reminds us that if we are willing to cooperate with God, He will use the biggest challenges we face as catalysts for our growth and spiritual development.

As we look more closely at Hannah’s story this week, we will be challenged to cultivate deeper prayer lives and persevere when facing difficult circumstances.

### inScribe

`Write out 1 Samuel 1:8–11 from the translation of your choice and make an outline of the whole chapter. How would you describe Hannah’s experience?`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Early Writings (1882), 73.