---
title:  Persistent Prayer
date:   10/05/2026
---

### inGest

Hannah seemed trapped in some of the worst circumstances. She suffered the miserable consequences of a polygamous marriage. Severe rivalry and contention filled her home. She was scorned and despised for being childless. Her sense of shame and failure deepened with each passing year. No physicians or experts could heal her infertility. Only God could help her.

Hannah felt very alone. Her husband loved her, but even he failed to understand why she was so sorrowful (1 Sam. 1:8). God loved her too, but she felt as if He had abandoned and forgotten her (1 Sam. 1:11). Nevertheless, she did not allow her anguish and bitterness of soul to drive her away from God. Whereas some people’s prayers become weaker over time, Hannah’s became stronger every year. She is an inspiring example of deep devotion. She never gave up.

Her request to God was very specific (1 Sam. 1:10–17). At first, it seemed God did not answer her prayers, but she persisted in her faith. God did answer, in His perfect time and according to His will. Sometimes waiting deepens our walk with God; we learn to trust Him more.

Hannah’s prayers resulted in the birth of Samuel, who grew up to become one of the greatest prophets in Israel—a truly important figure in their history (see Jer. 15:1). This story shows that we never know the true significance of the things we pray for. Yes, Samuel changed Hannah’s life, but he also changed the history of the entire nation. Hannah’s prayers made an eternal impact on the history of God’s people. We must always remember that God sees a much bigger picture than we do. He sees far beyond anything we can imagine. He welcomes bold prayers and takes great delight in answering in extraordinary ways that reach much further than we could have dreamt. Knowing the extreme limitations of our own perspectives should humble us and help us trust God and His timing. When things aren’t going as we might expect, we can trust God with the bigger picture.

For Hannah, Samuel’s birth was fresh evidence of God’s sovereignty. God lifted her up, redeemed her, and silenced her antagonists. When she brought Samuel to Priest Eli, the Bible records a profound prayer of thanksgiving (1 Sam. 2:1–10). “Talk no more so very proudly; Let no arrogance come from your mouth, For the Lord is the God of knowledge; And by Him actions are weighed” (1 Sam. 2:3). She praised God as the One who someday “will judge the ends of the earth” (1 Sam. 2:10). Her prayer journey led her to a clearer concept of God and His character.

**Questions to explore:**

`What major challenges in life have taught you to depend more on God? What have they taught you about prayer?`