---
title:  When Prayers Seem Unanswered
date:   11/05/2026
---

### inTerpret

Psalm 62:8 says, “Trust in Him at all times, you people; pour out your heart before Him; God is a refuge for us.” Trust. Do we trust that He really does know what’s best, even when we don’t see an immediate answer to our prayers? Do we trust that though it may take a while, He will answer in His perfect time and way?

Sometimes our prayers are not answered as quickly as we want or in the manner we hope. What counsel does the Bible give us for these situations?

- Seek God’s will, not your own (Matt. 6:10; 1 John 5:14, 15).
- Consider your motives (Prov. 16:2; James 4:3).
- Think about whether you have a cherished sin (Ps. 66:18; Prov. 15:29; Isa. 59:2).
- Abide in God and in His Word (John 15:7; Prov. 28:9).
- Have faith when you pray (Heb. 11:6; James 1:6; Mark 11:24; Matt. 21:22).
- Consider the state of your heart, whether you’re humble or proud (James 4:6; 1 Pet. 5:6).
- Persevere (Luke 18:1–8).
- Forgive others (Mark 11:25, 26).
- Ultimately, God sees the big picture and knows what’s best for us (Rom. 8:28; Eph. 3:20; Jer. 29:11–13).
- Sometimes His answer is what it was for Paul: “My grace is sufficient for you” (2 Cor. 12:9).

A key fact that determines our response to what seems like unanswered prayers is our picture of God. If we see God as distant and disinterested, our relationship with Him weakens. In such times, search the Bible for evidence of His love and care for you, and pray that your distorted picture of Him will become clearer.

Hannah would not have had such a compelling testimony if God had answered her prayer for a son quickly. The delay made God’s answer all the more spectacular. If our primary goal is God’s glory rather than our own glory, we can trust that God is shaping our story for the best possible outcome in light of eternity. Sometimes, our story of faith amid hardship offers hope to people who need an example of trusting God in the most challenging circumstances.

`When has it seemed like your prayers were unanswered? What lessons did you learn through the experience?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from 1 Samuel 1. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._