---
title: 'Other Questions about Prayer'
date: 14/05/2026
---

### inVite

Why pray when God already knows? Ellen White explains it like this: “Not that it is necessary in order to make known to God what we are, but in order to enable us to receive Him. Prayer does not bring God down to us, but brings us up to Him.”<sup>1</sup> Indeed, God knows our desires and our needs, and He reads every intent of our hearts. Praying is good for us. It invites us to stop amid the rush of our lives, to pause and acknowledge that God is sovereign over all, and to place ourselves at His feet. Prayer also opens more avenues for God to act. The Holy Spirit intercedes for us when we don’t know how or what to pray (Rom. 8:26, 27).

**Why pray when all is well?** Self-sufficiency and pride (see Lesson 3) can be some of the greatest barriers to a strong prayer life. If we’d only realize how much we need God, we’d come to Him much more! If perfect angels adore and worship Him, how can we sinful humans think we need Him less?

**What’s the role of faith in prayer?** Doubt hinders God in answering our prayers. We must come to God believing that He’s able to give us good things and that He has the wisdom to do what’s right (Heb. 11:6). Ponder these words: “Prayer and faith are closely allied, and they need to be studied together. In the prayer of faith there is a divine science; it is a science that everyone who would make his lifework a success must understand.”<sup>2</sup>

**With whom should I pray?** Most importantly, we should pray privately (just God and you), as prayer and Bible study are the lifeblood of your personal relationship with God. Set aside time to search your heart as you talk and listen to God (Matt. 6:6). We should also pray with our families or in small groups (Acts 12:12), because where two or three believers are gathered, God is there (Matt. 18:20). Finally, we should pray with our church communities (James 5:13–16). All three are important.

**How should I listen?** Prayer is more than just talking to God; we also need to allow Him to “prune” us and speak into our lives. The clearest and safest way to do this is to read the Bible and combine prayer and Bible study in our devotional time. We must beware of emptying our minds or listening to our own thoughts rather than searching the Bible.

**Questions to consider:**

What themes should our prayers focus on? Consider 1 Chron. 29:11; Job 42:10; Ps. 32:5; Ps. 51:10–13; Luke 11:13; 1 Tim. 2:1–4; Eph. 6:18–20; Phil. 4:6; Col. 1:9; James 4:15.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ (1892), 93.

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Ellen G. White, Education (1903), 257.