---
title:  inQuire
date:   15/05/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Hannah’s persistent prayers:**

1. What various challenges did Hannah face? What was she feeling? 1 Sam. 1:1–8
2. After years of disappointment and sorrow, how did she pray? 1 Sam. 1:9–18
3. How did God answer her prayer? 1 Sam. 1:19, 20
4. How did this amazing experience deepen Hannah’s understanding of God? 1 Sam. 2:1–11

`Personal reflection: When have you experienced delay? Did your faith grow or wither during the experience? Why?`

**Acceptable prayers:**

1. Why is it important to seek God’s will when we pray? Matt. 6:10; James 4:3; 1 John 5:14, 15
2. How do pride, cherished sin, and failure to forgive hinder God from answering prayer? Ps. 66:18; Prov. 28:9; Isa. 59:2; Mark 11:25, 26; James 4:6
3. What role does faith play in our prayers being acceptable to God? Mark 11:24; Heb. 11:6

**Trusting God with delay and disappointment:**

1. Can we trust that God’s plans are better than our own? Jer. 29:11–13; Rom. 8:28; Eph. 3:20
2. How can we persevere in prayer when we don’t immediately receive our answer? Luke 18:1–8
3. How should we respond when God doesn’t give us what we ask for? 2 Cor. 12:7–10

`Personal reflection: Is there anything you would like to change or implement to strengthen your prayer life? Why not make those changes starting today?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Some of the most profound answers to prayer come after years of struggling, sorrow, and disappointment.
- Conditions for answered prayer include submitting to God’s will, forsaking sin, and having faith in God.
- Delay and disappointment provide opportunities to deepen our commitment to and trust in God.