---
title:  Can the Dead Talk With Us?
date:   01/06/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Ecclesiastes 9:5; Psalm 6:5; John 11:11–14; The Great Controversy, chapters 31–34.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The Lord himself will come down from heaven with a loud [strong and powerful] command, with the voice [command] of the archangel, and with the trumpet call [sudden blast] of God. And the people who have died and were in Christ will rise [wake up from the dead] first. After that we who are still alive at that time will be gathered [collected and picked] up with those [people] who have died. We will be taken up in the clouds and meet the Lord in the air. And we will be with the Lord forever” (1 Thessalonians 4:16, 17, ERV).

Not long ago, people started to have near death experiences (NDEs). During an NDE, a person dies, but he comes back to life. After he wakes up, he tells stories about all the amazing things he saw and heard while “dead.” Millions of people believe these stories prove that the dead aren’t really dead. One of Satan’s biggest lies is that the spirit can continue to live after the body dies.

This lie started back in Eden with the snake. The snake lied to Eve, “ ‘You will certainly not die’ ” (Genesis 3:4, NIrV). This lie is the false promise that life continues after death. This lie was part of a false religion that started in the 1800s with the Fox sisters. The Fox sisters said they got answers to their questions from dead spirits. (Later the sisters confessed that they lied. The spirits never communicated with them at all.)

The Bible is our only safety against Satan’s big lie.