---
title:  The Dangers Of Talking With Spirits
date:   02/06/2024
---

Some people believe that death is the start of a new part of life. This idea is a lie. The lie comes from the false teaching that the spirit continues to live after death. Roman religions taught this lie. How did this teaching start in Christian churches? The Roman government wanted to make Christianity more popular with its citizens. So, early on, Christian leaders taught the lie that the spirit lives forever to help Roman citizens accept Christianity and join the church. “The idea that the spirit lives forever was a false religious teaching. Roman leaders ‘borrowed’ this false idea from their own religion and made it part of Christianity.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 549, adapted.

> <p></p>
> “Do not fear people who can kill the body. They cannot kill the spirit. But fear the one who can destroy both spirit and body in hell” (Matthew 10:28, WE).

`What does this verse say about the lie that the spirit lives forever?`

The Lord warned His people not to do magic: “ ‘Don’t let anyone try to control others [people] with magic. Don’t let them be mediums [fortunetellers] or try to talk with the spirits of dead people’ ” (Deuteronomy 18:11, ICB). Anyone who used magic was killed with stones (Leviticus 20:27). We may think this punishment is mean. But God commanded witches, fortunetellers, and magicians to be killed to protect Israel from worshiping false gods.

Demons control magic and the people who use it. When we use magic, demons trick us into false worship. When we use their magic to talk to the dead, we are really worshiping the demons. The belief that we can talk with the dead is part of Satan’s big plan to make people his slaves. But Jesus makes us free from the demons and their magic.

`Read Ecclesiastes 9:5; Job 7:7–9; and Isaiah 8:19, 20. What do these Bible verses teach us about death and communicating with dead people?`

The belief that the dead go to heaven right away when they die has been around for a long time. People use a few Bible texts in the wrong way to support this idea. But this belief leaves people with no protection against Satan, now or in the end times.