---
title:  Death In The Old Testament
date:   03/06/2024
---

`What do Psalm 6:5; Psalm 115:17; 1 Kings 2:10; 1 Kings 11:43; and 1 Kings 14:20 teach us about death?`

The Old Testament does not teach that the spirit lives forever after the body dies. Or that the saved fly off to heaven to live there forever. The Bible doesn’t teach that sinners will go to hell in the middle of earth after they die. Or that they will burn forever in everlasting fire. The Bible teaches us that death is sleep. The King James Bible uses sleep as a word picture to talk about death. When a king died, he “slept [died] with his fathers and was buried in the city of David” (1 Kings 2:10, KJV; for an example, read 1 Kings 15:24). The poet who wrote Psalm 13 also believes that death is the same as sleep: “Look on me and answer, O Lord, my God. Give light to my eyes, or I will sleep the sleep of death” (Psalm 13:3, NLV; compare Psalm 90:5). Job compares death to sleep, too: 
“ ‘So people lose their lives, never to live again. The skies will all pass away before they rise [wake up] from death. The skies will all disap­pear before anyone wakes up from that sleep!’ ” (Job 14:12, ERV). The poet who wrote Psalm 17 adds, “I shall be satisfied [happy] when I awake [wake up from the dead] in Your likeness [with the same form or appearance as God]” (Psalm 17:15, NKJV).

When the Assyrian army was destroyed, the death of the soldiers was named their “final sleep” (Psalm 76:6, CJB). So, the idea that the dead float around in the sky and wait to communicate with us is not from the Bible.

If we don’t understand Bible truth about death, we may easily believe Satan’s lies. “Many people will meet evil spirits who pretend to be dead family members or friends. These spirits will teach false ideas. They will try to touch our hearts with words and actions. The spirits also will work miracles to support their false teachings. We must be ready to stand against them with Bible truth. The Bible says the dead don’t know anything. So, we can be sure that the dead family and friends who visit us are really evil spirits.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 560, adapted.

`What do Daniel 12:2 and Job 19:25–27 say about death?`

When we die, we rest in sleep until the Second Coming. At that time, Jesus will wake us up from the dead.