---
title:  Death In The New Testament
date:   04/06/2024
---

`Read John 11:11–14, 21–25; 2 Timothy 1:10; 1 Corinthians 15:51–54; and 1 Thessalonians 4:15–17. What do the New Testament writers say about death? How do their words compare with what the Old Testament says?`

The word “sleep” is used at least 53 times in the Bible as a word picture for death. Bible writers agree that the spirit does not live forever. Also, the Bible says that the spirit doesn’t continue to live after the body dies.

The New Testament talks about what happens to the dead at the Second Coming. Jesus will wake them up.

The Gospels are the first four books of the New Testament. The Gospels teach us that Jesus is the only One who can give us everlasting life. All the demons in hell can’t steal this gift from us. On the cross, Jesus won the fight against death. When Jesus woke up from the dead, His life was a promise: He will resurrect or wake up all His followers from the grave at His Second Coming.

Look at these words from Paul: “If dead people are not raised [resurrected], then Christ was not raised either [also]. If Christ was not raised, then what you believe is no good. Your wrong ways have not been forgiven. If that were true, then the people who believed in Christ who have now died, are lost” (1 Corinthians 15:16–18, WE). How can we understand these verses if the dead are already in heaven? How can they be “lost” if they are alive with God in heaven right now?

Paul’s message is that we can trust in Jesus’ promise to resurrect us because He woke up from the dead. If Jesus never woke up from the dead, then “what you believe is no good” or useless. Worse, our sins can’t be forgiven. All the dead will stay in the ground. They will never wake up from the dead. But thank God, Jesus woke up from the dead! So, we can trust Him when He says He will wake us up, too.

Peter says, “Now we hope for the blessings God has for his children. These blessings are kept for you in heaven. They cannot be destroyed or be spoiled or lose their beauty” (1 Peter 1:4, ICB). If the dead are already in heaven, why does Peter talk about the blessings kept for us in heaven? New Testament writers looked with joy to the time when Jesus will resurrect the dead at His Second Coming. This promise filled the New Testament writers with hope and courage during hard times.