---
title:  'Satan’s End-time Miracles: Part 1'
date:   05/06/2024
---

`What are some of Satan’s end-time tricks and lies? Read Matthew 24:5, 11, 24; 2 Thessalonians 2:7–9; Revelation 13:13, 14; and Revelation 16:13, 14 for the answer.`

The devil will use miracles and signs to trick many people just before the Second Coming. Ángel Rodriguez explains how the demons will trick so many people in the end-times: “What is the secret to the demons’ success? Will they convince people to worship Satan because of their powerful messages? No, they will do powerful miracles and signs. These miracles will touch people’s hearts and not their minds. The miracles are not from God. As the worldwide war between Jesus and Satan ends, demons will control almost everyone. Almost everyone on earth will believe Satan’s powerful lie that the dead can talk to us.”—“The Closing of the Cosmic Conflict: Role of the Three Angels’ Messages,” unpublished manuscript, page 6.

`Why must we not trust our feelings to help us decide what is truth? What part do feelings have in our faith experience? How does Satan try to control our feelings? How does he cause us to think that our feelings are more important than what the Bible tells us to do?`

“For a long time, Satan has gotten ready for his final effort to trick the people on earth. . . . Little by little, he has gotten people ready to accept his lie that the dead communicate with us. Satan’s work isn’t finished, but he will have everything ready just before earth’s history ends. . . . We must have faith in God and the Bible. God and Bible truth will protect us from Satan’s lies. Without faith in God or the Bible, we will get tricked by Satan’s lies. Satan is tricking the people on this earth right now. They think they are safe when they are not. They will understand the truth only when it is too late.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 561, 562. For sure, only Jesus and the Bible can protect us from Satan’s lies.

`What are some of Satan’s tricks and lies that Jesus protects us from because we believe the Bible?`