---
title:  'Satan’s End-time Miracles: Part 2'
date:   06/06/2024
---

Jesus gives us hope. He will save us. He invites us to accept His death on the cross for our sins. Soon Jesus will come back to take us home. Titus 2:13 says the Second Coming is our “blessed [wonderful] hope” (NIrV).

Satan wants to destroy our hope. He will do miracles and signs to keep people from accepting Bible truth and God’s saving mercy.

“This is why God’s people must be patient. They are the ones who keep the laws of God and believe [have the same faith] in Jesus [that Jesus had in God the Father]” (Revelation 14:12, WE). In the final fight, Satan will do everything he can to prevent people from keeping God’s commandments or having the same faith Jesus had. So, we need to check if any teaching goes against God’s commandments or the faith of Jesus. God’s end-time church will keep His law and have the faith that Jesus had.

`Read Matthew 24:23–27; 2 Corinthians 11:13, 14; and 2 Thessalonians 2:9–12. What do these verses tell us about Satan’s lies and how he will work in the end times?`

At the end of earth’s history, Satan will work one last time to trick people: “Soon we will see strange sights in the skies. These things will be a sign that demons are at work. The demons will do miracles. The spirits of devils will go to the kings who control the earth. These devils also will go to people everywhere on earth to try to trick them into joining Satan in his fight against the government in heaven. The demons will trick both leaders and their people alike. Men will pretend to be Jesus. These men will say they are the King of kings and Lord of lords. They will accept the worship that belongs only to Jesus. These men will do wonderful miracles. They will heal the sick. They will say that they have new truth from God in heaven. But their messages will go against Bible truth.

“What will be Satan’s final act in his play of lies? Satan himself will pretend to be Jesus. The church has waited for Jesus to come for so long. Now Satan will make it look as if Jesus has really come. In different parts of the earth, Satan will appear as a bright and shining person. He will look the same as the picture of Jesus that John saw in his dream in Revelation. Revelation 1:13–15.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 624, adapted.