---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   07/06/2024
---

Lee Strobel wrote a book about NDEs, or near-death experiences. In his book, A Case for Heaven, Strobel talks about “dead” people who have NDEs after they die. Strobel says NDEs are proof that the dead stay alive in some way after they die. One example: “A girl had an NDE during heart surgery. She said she met her brother during her NDE. The girl was surprised because she didn’t have a brother. When the girl ‘woke up’ from the dead, she told her father what happened. Her father told her for the first time that she did have a brother. But he died before she was born.”—Lee Strobel, The Case for Heaven (Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan Books, 2021), page 69, adapted. Strobel’s idea about the afterlife doesn’t agree with Bible truth. We get our final reward only when Jesus comes back.

“Just ahead of us is the ‘time of trouble; the time to test everyone is about to come to the whole world [everyone on earth].’ Revelation 3:10 [NLV]. Anyone who does not have faith in Bible truth will be tricked. They will fail the test. Satan will ‘use every kind [trick] of evil’ to get control of people [2 Thessalonians 2:10, ICB]. Satan’s tricks and lies will continue more and more. But Satan can only control people if they will let him. He cannot get control of people who seek to know Bible truth and obey it. When we obey Bible truth, our hearts become clean. Our obedience helps us get ready for the fight ahead. God will defend His obedient people against Satan. Jesus promises them, ‘You have obeyed my word and been patient. So I will keep you safe in the time of trouble’ [Revelation 3:10, WE]. Will Jesus leave anyone alone who trusts in Him? Will Jesus allow Satan to take control of this person’s life? Of course not! Our Savior would sooner send every angel out of heaven to protect His people than allow Satan to take control of one person who trusts in Him.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 560, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What tricks and lies does Satan use today to control the minds of people? How does Satan use TV shows, movies, and social media to control people?`

`Let’s say you had a friend who just lost a loved one. Your friend believes that the loved one is in heaven. What would you say to help your friend? How would you share your faith with your friend? What should you say? What should you NOT say?`