---
title:  Further Thought
date:  15/11/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Test of Faith,” pp. 145–155, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “In Pilate’s Judgment Hall,” pp. 723–740, in The Desire of Ages.

Thomas “cast himself at the feet of Jesus crying, ‘My Lord and my God.’ ”

“Jesus accepted his acknowledgment, but gently reproved his unbelief: ‘Thomas, because thou hast seen Me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed.’ The faith of Thomas would have been more pleasing to Christ if he had been willing to believe upon the testimony of his brethren. Should the world now follow the example of Thomas, no one would believe unto salvation; for all who receive Christ must do so through the testimony of others.

“Many who are given to doubt excuse themselves by saying that if they had the evidence which Thomas had from his companions, they would believe. They do not realize that they have not only that evidence, but much more. Many who, like Thomas, wait for all cause of doubt to be removed, will never realize their desire. They gradually become confirmed in unbelief. Those who educate themselves to look on the dark side, and murmur and complain, know not what they do. They are sowing the seeds of doubt, and they will have a harvest of doubt to reap. At a time when faith and confidence are most essential, many will thus find themselves powerless to hope and believe.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 807, 808.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What was the essential difference in the expressions of faith by Abraham and by Thomas? What can we learn from their stories?`

`In class, let those who are willing bear witness to Jesus, as we have seen done in the Gospel of John. Though the accounts differ, what do people say, and how do they all bear witness to the same Lord?`

`Pilate asked a very philosophical question: “What is truth?” Give your answer to that question in light of all we have studied in John.`

`Look at the prophecies of Daniel 2 and 7. Though those in the time of Jesus had these two chapters, what great advantage do we have today that they didn’t have back then, in terms of seeing those prophecies fulfilled and thus having even more reasons to believe?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Desire of Ages, “In Pilate’s Judgment Hall,” pp. 723–740;\
This Day with God, “Truth Will Triumph,” p. 195.