---
title: 'Seeing People The Way That Jesus Sees Them'
date: 11/07/2020
---

### Read for this week's lesson
Mark 8:22–26; John 4:3–34; John 1:40, 41; Matthew 4:18, 19; Acts 8:26–38.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Jesus said to them, ‘Come, follow me, and I will make you a different kind [sort; type] of fishermen. You will bring in people, not fish’ ” (Matthew 4:19, ERV).

JESUS IS THE BEST SOUL WINNER WHO EVER LIVED. Just look in the Bible at the way Jesus works with people. Then you will learn how to lead other people to God to be saved. As we read about Jesus, we see Him walk the crowded streets in Jerusalem. We see Jesus travel the dusty roads in Judea. We watch Him sit on the grassy hillsides in Galilee. As we read about Jesus, we discover how He shows the important rules of His kingdom to people who want to be saved.

Jesus sees all men and women as souls He can win for His kingdom. Jesus looks at each person with the eyes of love. Does Jesus see Peter as a loud fishermen? No, Jesus sees Peter as a mighty preacher of the Good News. Does Jesus see James and John’s bad tempers? No, Jesus sees James and John as men who announce His mercy. Jesus sees the deep wish for love in Mary Magdalene, the Samaritan woman, and the woman who bled. Jesus does not see Thomas as a doubter. No, Jesus sees Thomas as someone with honest questions. Jesus sees everyone the same: Jews and non-Jews, men and women, the thief on the cross, the Roman officer, and the man filled with demons. Jesus sees us as more than we are now. Jesus sees us the way God meant us to be. Jesus sees everyone with the loving eyes of a Savior.
