---
title: 'The Second Touch'
date: 12/07/2020
---

There is only one miracle in the whole Bible that Jesus does in two parts. It is the miracle when Jesus heals the blind man at Bethsaida. This healing miracle has important lessons for our church today. This miracle also shows us that it is God’s plan for each believer to bring someone else to Jesus. The Bible says, “Jesus and his followers came to Bethsaida. Some people brought a blind man to him and begged [asked] him to touch the man” (Mark 8:22, ERV). The two most important words in this verse are “brought” and “begged [asked].” What do these two words tell us? The blind man does not come to Jesus on his own. His friends see his need. They bring him to Jesus. Maybe the blind man does not have much faith. But his friends do. They believe that Jesus will heal their friend.

In the New Testament, we read about 25 of Jesus’ healing miracles. In more than half of these miracles, a family member or a friend brings the sick person to Jesus to heal. Many people will never come to Jesus on their own. They need someone who has faith to bring them. Our job as Christians is to introduce, or “bring” people to Jesus.

The second important word in Mark 8:22 is “begged.” It can mean “asked.” It means to ask for something in a kind and gentle way. The blind man’s friends are kind. They gently ask Jesus to help their blind friend. The friends believe that Jesus wants to help their friend. They also believe Jesus has the power to heal him. Maybe the man himself does not have faith that Jesus can heal him. But his friends do. Sometimes our faith must “carry” other people to Jesus until they can learn to have faith too.

`Read Mark 8:22–26. Why do you think that Jesus heals the blind man in two parts? What lessons does this story teach us about how we should share Jesus with other people?`

Is it possible that we also do not see people clearly? Do we sometimes see people “ ‘like [the same as] trees walking around’ ” (Mark 8:24, ERV)? That is, do we see them as real people that God wants to save? Or do we see them only as shadows?

`What else can we learn from this story? How does it show us that sinners may need both spiritual and medical help?`
