---
title: 'A Lesson About Accepting People'
date: 13/07/2020
---

Jesus shows His followers how to look at each person in a new way. Jesus teaches His followers how God looks at people. Jesus does not see people only as they are. He sees what each person can become. Jesus always is kind to people. He shows them respect. Often, Jesus surprises His followers because He is nice and kind to the people that the Jews do not like. We see Jesus behave this way in the story about the Samaritan woman at the well.

The Archaeological Study Bible says this about the bad feelings between the Jews and the Samaritans in Jesus’ day: “The separation between the Samaritans and the Judeans started a long time ago. In 2 Kings 17, we learn that the Samaritans were the future children of people who lived in Mesopotamia. The king of Assyria forced these people to live in Northern Israel after the Jews were forced to leave Northern Israel, in 722 b.c. The Samaritans who moved there mixed the worship of Yahweh with the worship of false gods.”—(Zondervan Publishing, 2005), page 1727, adapted. The Samaritans build their own temple on Mount Gerizim. They also choose their own holy leaders for the temple. So, it is easy to see why Jesus’ followers also are surprised when Jesus chooses to enter Samaria on His way to Galilee. Jesus’ followers are surprised when Jesus does not argue with the Samaritans about religion. What does Jesus do? He knows that the Samaritan woman wants to be accepted, loved, and forgiven. So, Jesus gives her what she needs.

`Read John 4:3–34. How does Jesus start a conversation with the Samaritan woman? How does she answer Him? How do Jesus’ followers act? How does Jesus use this experience to teach His followers about how God sees people?`

Jesus wants to teach His followers an important lesson. They need to learn that “those people who have Jesus’ Spirit will look at everyone with eyes of love. This love comes from God.”—Ellen G. White, The Signs of the Times, June 20, 1892, adapted.

`Are there people around you that you feel you cannot respect? If so, who are they? Why must you change your feelings about this group or groups? How can you change your feelings for them?`
