---
title: 'Start Where You Are'
date: 14/07/2020
---

Someone said, “In life the only place to start from is where you are. There is no other place to start.” Jesus shows us this important rule in Acts 1:8 (ERV), when He says, “ ‘But the Holy Spirit will come on you and give you power. You will be my witnesses. You will tell people everywhere about me—in Jerusalem, in the rest of Judea, in Samaria, and in every part of the world [earth].’ ”

Jesus’ message to His followers is clear: “Start where you are. Tell people where you live about God. Start by doing the work that needs to be done around you!”

You do not need to have a lot of education to start working for God. You also do not need to have more skills than other people. Yes, God-given skills are helpful when we use them in the right way. But in the end, all you need is your own love for God and a love for souls. If you are willing to share Jesus, then God will open the way for you.

`Read John 1:40, 41; John 6:5–11; and John 12:20–26. What do these verses tell you about Andrew’s spiritual eyesight and his way of sharing Jesus?`

Andrew’s experience teaches us many things. He starts with his own family. He first tells his brother, Peter, about Jesus. Andrew also is kind to a little boy who gives Jesus the food He uses for a miracle. Andrew knows just what to do with the Greeks too. Does Andrew argue with them about God and religion? Not at all! Andrew sees that the Greeks need Jesus. So, Andrew takes them to Jesus.

The secret to winning people to Jesus is showing them that you care. You do that by building strong friendships. Think about the people closest to you who may not know Jesus. Do they see you as a caring and loving person? Do they see in you the peace that they want so badly? Does your life make people want to know more about Jesus? When we share Jesus, we make friends for God. In this way, we lead people to become Christians. Then we share with them God’s end-time message about Bible truth. In time, these friends may become Seventh-day Adventist Christians too.

`Why is it often so hard to lead family members to Jesus? What has been your own experience? What important rules about sharing Jesus with family members can you share with the class?`
