---
title:  HOW TO GET ALONG WITH DIFFICULT PEOPLE
date:   15/07/2020
---

Jesus is an expert at getting along with people. Jesus meets people who have a hard time getting along with other people. Jesus shows these people that He accepts them. He listens carefully to them. He asks them questions. He shows them God’s truth. Jesus sees into people’s hearts. He sees that even people with the hardest hearts want a better life. Jesus also sees the good in the worst sinners. In Jesus’ eyes, the Good News can save anyone who accepts it. Jesus believes that “no person has fallen so low into sin or is so bad that Jesus cannot save him or her.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 258, adapted. Jesus looks at people in a different way than the rest of us do. Jesus sees in each person what he or she is meant to be. Jesus helps people to see how they can become better. So, many people become better in this life because of Jesus.

`Read Matthew 4:18, 19; Mark 12:28–34; and Luke 23:39–43. What is the same about Jesus’ words to Peter and Andrew, a religious leader, and the thief on the cross? Study Jesus’ plan for touching each person’s heart. What is the most important part of this plan to you?`

Everywhere that Jesus goes He sees the chance for spiritual growth. Jesus sees people that He can save for God’s kingdom. Jesus finds these people in strange places. In these places, you may think there is nobody to save. Jesus has what we call “church-growth eyes.” That means understanding people as Jesus sees them. Jesus sees everyone as someone to win for His kingdom. Christians with church-growth eyes also need to have “church-growth hearts.” Church-growth hearts is a word picture for people who listen with their hearts. They listen to the wish in people’s hearts for something they do not have. People who listen carefully to other people can understand what is really in another person’s heart, even if he or she does not talk about it.

Ask Jesus to help you to see and understand the Holy Spirit’s work in other people’s lives. Please pray that God will open your eyes to the chances He brings to you each day to share your faith. Ask God for eyes to see and a heart that listens. Ask God to make you want to share Jesus and His love with people. Then you will feel a joy that is deeper than anything you experienced before.
