---
title: 'When God Opens The Way For Us To Tell People About Jesus'
date: 16/07/2020
---

The book of Acts is filled with stories. The stories show how Jesus’ followers share the Good News. Jesus’ followers share God’s saving message with everyone they can. From beginning to end, Acts shows us stories about how the New Testament church grows. We see how the church grows in good times and in bad.

In 2 Corinthians 2:12, 13, NLV, Paul talks about his experience at Troas: “When I arrived in the city of Troas, the Lord opened the door for me to preach the Good News of Christ. I was worried because I could not find our brother Titus. After saying good-bye, I went on my way to the country of Macedonia.” God opens the way for Paul to preach the Good News in Europe. Paul knows that this is a miracle. Paul also knows that the “doors” that God opens today may be shut tomorrow. So, Paul sails to Macedonia right away.

The God of the New Testament is the God of the “open door.” That is, God opens the way for us to share our faith. The book of Acts shows us that God is busy opening doors for His people in cities, in countries, and in kingdoms. Most important, God is busy opening doors in people’s hearts.

`Read Acts 8:26–38. What do these verses teach us about Philip? In what way is Philip open to God’s leading in his life? What does Philip do when God gives him the chance to share his faith?`

“An angel leads Philip to the person who wants to know more about the Bible. This person is ready for the Good News. Today, angels also will lead workers who allow the Holy Spirit to give them holy words and hearts. The angel that led Philip can do the work himself. But God does not work this way. It is God’s plan for humans to work with Him to save other humans.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 109, adapted. So, we need to have hearts to listen and spiritual eyes to understand. Then God will send His angels to help us touch people’s hearts.

`Do you see how important the Bible is in Philip’s story? Also, do you see that it is important for someone who knows Bible truth to share his knowledge with the one who wants to know more? What does that teach us?`
