---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 17/07/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Gospel in Samaria,” pages 103–111, in The Acts of the Apostles.

All around us people are searching for everlasting life and heaven. Jesus says, “ ‘There is such a big harvest [crop] of people to bring in. But there are only a few workers to help harvest [cut the crops; collect] them’ ” (Matthew 9:37, ERV). Is the problem with the harvest? Not at all! The problem is that there are not enough workers. Jesus sees what His followers cannot see. What is Jesus’ answer to the problem? “ ‘God owns the harvest [crops]. Ask him to send more workers to help gather [collect] his harvest’ ” (Matthew 9:38, ERV). The way to solve the problem is to pray that God will send us out to collect His “crops” of people.

Here is a prayer we can pray: “Lord, I want You to use me to build up Your kingdom. Open my eyes. Give me spiritual understanding to see all the doors that You open for me every day. Teach me to care about the needs of the people around me. Help me to say kind words to people to encourage them and give them hope. Help me also to share Your love and truth with the people I meet every day.” Pray this prayer. Then God will do some wonderful and surprising things with your life.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Have you worked to bring souls to Jesus? It is not always easy, right? True, only God can change hearts. But He chose us to be part of that work. What does it take to win one soul to Jesus? It takes time, a lot of work, a patient spirit, and a love that comes from above. Your selfish heart must die too. What choices can you make to die to self so that you can win souls to Jesus?`

`2. Who are some of the people you meet every day who do not know Jesus? What have you done to share Jesus with them? What more can you do?`

`3. Think about Saul from Tarsus. He is the last person people thought would become a Christian, right? But that is exactly what happened to him. What lesson should this teach us about not judging people by the way they look and act on the outside?`

`4. Think some more about Saul’s story. Now read Matthew 7:6. How do you understand Jesus’ words here?`
