---
title:  Guardians of the Seal
date:  03/09/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 16**

**Guardians of the Seal**

According to The Art Newspaper, the world’s most popular art museum is the Louvre in Paris, France. (“Legoland vs the Louvre: how do museums stack up against other popular visitor attractions and public events?” The Art Newspaper, March 31, 2020. https://www.theartnewspaper.com/2020/03/31/legoland-vs-the-louvre-how-do-museums-stack-up-against-other-popular-visitor-attractions-and-public-events. Accessed September 28, 2021.) In 2019, over 9.6million persons visited that museum. (“Détail de la Fréquentation totale du musée du Louvre,” Rapport d'activité 2019 du musée du Louvre, p. 126. http://mini-site.louvre.fr/trimestriel/2020/RA2019/126/. Accessed September 28, 2021.) The museum houses the most famous painting in the world: the Mona Lisa, also known as La Gioconda. It is reputedly the most heavily insured work of art in the world, and has been displayed behind bulletproof glass since 1956; it is also surrounded by a wooden fence to keep visitors at a safe distance. While the Mona Lisa is just one of more than 7,500 (“Louvre Museum Facts,” Paris Tickets. https://louvre-museum.tickets-paris.fr/louvre-museum-facts/. Accessed September 29, 2021.) paintings in the Louvre, 80 percent (“It’s Time to Take Down the Mona Lisa,” The New York Times. November 6, 2019.  https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/06/arts/design/mona-lisa-louvre-overcrowding.html. Accessed September 29, 2021.) of all visits to the Louvre are for this painting. Its insurance value in 1962 was $100 million (that is more than $867 million in 2021, when adjusted for inflation). During World War II, it was moved to safe locations. Leonardo da Vinci began work on the painting in 1503. The precise year of completion is uncertain.

Made by a man, an imperfect man, the Mona Lisa is now more than 500 years old and still going strong because of the stratospheric value placed upon it and, consequently, of rigorous protection. Universal admiration for the Mona Lisa borders on idolatry!

The Sabbath day institution, made by the omnipotent, almighty Creator, is roughly six thousand years old, and has virtually petered out from the world despite a stentorian command from the universal sovereign to guard it—not behind bullet-proof glass, but in the heart! The royal command states, “Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy” (Exod. 20:8, KJV). To “keep it holy” is to set it apart, or to dedicate it to a holy use, or to consecrate it for a sacred purpose. The command is to preserve God’s flawless artistry.

Because of general consensus of the consummate skill of Leonardo da Vinci, no one attempts to improve or alter the Mona Lisa. They preserve what was made . . . without a command from Leonardo da Vinci! But, even with a direct command from the Creator and Sustainer of life, spoken with a voice that shook the earth, very few preserve, protect, or observe the Sabbath (Heb. 12:26).

God has given mankind the lofty honor of preserving a work of art that angels, in their sphere, preserve (Ps. 103:20).

Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy in the fleshy museum of the obedient heart!

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 16 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Exodus 16:4, 5. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `