---
title:  Work Well Done
date:  04/09/2022
---

#### inGest

When God created, He worked—because creation is work! A comparison of two Bible verses quickly establishes this truth. “In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth” (Gen. 1:1, KJV). And regarding the completion of His creation the Bible says, “And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made” (Gen. 2:2, KJV).

Creation is work, and the first person in the Bible to work is God. It may be rightly said that God invented or originated work. To work, therefore, is to engage in an activity invented by the Creator. But it is not enough to just work. The work must have a quality . . . goodness!

The following Bible principle admits of no exceptions, “Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do [work], do all to the glory of God” (1 Cor. 10:31, KJV).

In His assessment of the completed creation, God described it as “very good” (Gen. 1:31). This “good” cannot merely mean “pleasant.” It may also convey the concept of the complete absence of evil or badness. The Bible declares that “the Lord is righteous in all his ways and holy in all his works” (Ps. 145:17, KJV). Because creation was good, it somehow reflected the glory of God: “The heavens declare the glory of God” (Ps. 19:1), and “the whole earth is full of His glory” (Isa. 6:3).

True Sabbath observance must include a review of the week of work past. Was the work well done? Did it express goodness? This is essential because shabby, sloppy, careless work misrepresents the character of God and ruins true sabbath rest. True sabbath rest is rest from work well done! This is godly living.

“God appointed labor as a blessing to man, to occupy his mind, to strengthen his body, and to develop his faculties.” (White, Patriarchs and Prophets, 50.)

The entrance of sin did not in any way alter this divine purpose!

**Memorize your favorite verse in Exodus 16. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`For a Christian, where is the locus of merit to hard work?`

`How can the mindset of seeing work as a curse be revised?`