---
title:  Always Prepared
date:  05/09/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Since 1907, the motto of the Boy Scouts movement has been, “Be prepared.” The founder of the movement, Lord Robert Baden-Powell, commented on the motto as always being “in a state of readiness.” (R. S. S. Baden Powell, Scouting for Boys, part 1 (London: Horace Cox, 1908), 48.) The United States’ Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), formed April 1, 1979, stands ready to assist local and state officials in times of overwhelming crises. Individual savings accounts have a related object: to provide financial shelter in the proverbial “rainy day.” This is thinking ahead—being prepared!

It is God who originated forward planning. When God charged Moses with leading the Israelites out of Egyptian bondage, He reassured him that a land “flowing with milk and honey” had already been prepared for them (Exod. 3:8). It was described as “the glory of all lands (Ezek. 20:6). The divine Being who led the Israelites through the wilderness was the same One who, in human form, fed the five thousand with “five barley loaves, and two small fishes” (John 6:9, KJV). The Bible says of Jesus that, prior to asking Philip how the multitude might be fed, “He Himself knew what He would do” (John 6:6). God is never surprised by emergencies!

God’s constant state of readiness is most powerfully attested by the everlasting covenant that predated the creation of mankind (2 Tim. 1:9; 1 Pet. 1:20). While God did not ordain sin, He was fully prepared in case it occurred. Sadly, it did, but salvation is available because God was prepared.

Another equally convincing case for the preparedness of God is creation. God made everything that was essential for the first pair’s existence and happiness, and then He made them. Ellen White touchingly writes, “After the earth with its teeming animal and vegetable life had been called into existence, man, the crowning work of the Creator, and the one for whom the beautiful earth had been fitted up, was brought upon the stage of action.” (White, Patriarchs and Prophets, 44.)

Did not Jesus say, “I go to prepare a place for you” (John 14:2)? For every crisis in the believer’s life, a way out already exists. The Sabbath is a celebration of many things, one of which is the preparedness of God to salvage His people in times of crisis.

The response or solution to the reader’s problem already exists!

` `