---
title:  One of a Kind
date:  07/09/2022
---

#### inVite

The holy life of Jesus drew words of admiration from the lips of friends and foes alike. The officers sent by the Pharisees and chief priests to arrest Him returned with this testimony, “Never man spake like this man” (John 7:46, KJV, emphasis supplied). Under the cover of night, Nicodemus, the closeted disciple said, “We know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him” (John 3:2, KJV, emphasis supplied).

The words Christ spoke marked Him as different. The things Christ did marked Him as different.

The same can be said about the Sabbath! Admittedly, the Sabbath does not say anything, but things are said about it. Similarly, the Sabbath does not do anything, but things are done on it. On the basis of what is said about the Sabbath, and what is done on it, its uniqueness is highlighted.

What is said about the Sabbath? The Sabbath day entered the world at the end of the first seven-day period. The language to introduce it states, “And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it” (Gen. 2:3, KJV, emphasis supplied). The most well-known Sabbath passage adds that the day is hallowed and holy (Exod. 20:8, 11).

Blessed! Sanctified! Holy! Hallowed! These things are said about the Sabbath. Never spake any man this way about any other day.

What is fine on the Sabbath? God commanded His people to rest from wage-earning labor and secular activities on the Sabbath (Exod. 20:10). He also requires them to gather for holy convocations on that day (Lev. 23:3). They were to especially guard their conversations on the Sabbath and avoid pleasure-seeking (Isa. 58:13).

Rest from work. Worship communally. Avoid common speech. Avoid secular pleasures. These are some things to be done on the Sabbath. Never was any day so divinely guarded as this day. Never has there been a day to which an entire other day is assigned as a day of preparation for it.

Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy: to preserve its one-of-a-kind status! After all, it uniquely wears a heavenly halo. (See Ellen G. White, Early Writings (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1882), 32.)

` `