---
title:  Organizing the Church
date:   04/11/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 12**

**Organizing the Church**

The Seventh-day Adventist Church did not form in a vacuum. The Reformation began a long process of rediscovering the truth that had been lost in the dark ages. This gradual rediscovery was progressive, and when the Reformation drew to a close in the late 1700s, the epicenter of Christian innovation and progress shifted to the United States. Earnest Bible students from a wide variety of Christian churches began coming together around the hope of the second advent of Jesus in the 1830s. During the 1840s and 50s, the early Adventist pioneers made key doctrinal breakthroughs that shaped our history and defined our message. At that time, it was very much a movement held together by some shared beliefs and a magazine called The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald. This publication provided a bit of glue for the fledgling movement by communicating beliefs and connecting believers.

Publishing was an integral part of early Sabbatarian Adventism. It made a legally organized association vital, because the publications needed to be attached to an official organization and the church needed a way to avoid registering property in an individual person’s name. As early Adventists diligently proclaimed the message and pursued the mission they had been given, they saw that they couldn’t accomplish what God had called them to without becoming organized. Slowly, steps were taken toward organizing and structuring their publications and church congregations. The correct beliefs needed to be adopted first, and then the structure to facilitate the mission of sharing the message with the world could be established.

In 1861, Adventist congregations in Michigan banded together to form the first conference. In the next few years, more state conferences formed in New York, Ohio, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota. It was then in 1863 that state conferences worked together to form a General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, officially organizing the church into three successive levels: local churches, conferences, and the General Conference.

The structure and organization of the Adventist Church has been further developed since 1863, but the purpose remains the same: to spread the gospel message around the globe. This week we will briefly look at the purpose and essence of God’s end-time church.

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 12 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `