---
title:  The Faithful Woman and the Unfaithful Woman
date:   05/11/2023
---

#### inGest

We have already looked at Revelation 12 in our studies on the great controversy and the spirit of prophecy, but returning to it here, we will see that the prophetic rise of the end-time church is yet another key theme of the chapter. To understand this theme, we must go back beyond the Millerites to when Protestantism was first emerging.

As the reformers uncovered groundbreaking Biblical truth, they felt compelled to break away from the Roman Catholic Church, which had been the only stable pillar of European society for almost a millennium. The Lutheran, Presbyterian, Anglican, and other congregational churches formed as a result of believers following truths they were discovering from the Bible. During the late 1700s and early 1800s many turned toward God with their whole hearts through the writing and public appeals of great Bible preachers such as John Wesley (whose followers became the Methodist church) and George Whitfield. These revivals, which are collectively known by church historians as the Great Awakening, paved the way for the birth of the Adventist movement in the 1840s and the foundation of the Seventh-day Adventist Church in the 1860s. Each reformer and revivalist discovered new truths. Revelation 12 alludes to these discoveries using prophetic symbols and outlining the forward momentum of God’s church through history. It also points out the key identifying marks of God’s people.

Though both play a significant role in end-time events, the pure woman of Revelation 12 presents an extreme contrast to the harlot woman seen later in chapter 17. The pure woman is sober, clothed with the sun, bears a crown of twelve stars, and stands on the moon (12:1) while the harlot woman is intoxicated, arrayed in scarlet and purple, precious stones, and pearls with the name “Babylon” and “Mother of Harlots” written on her forehead (Rev. 17:4, 5). The harlot woman commits fornication with the kings of the earth and is seen riding atop a scarlet beast that has seven heads and ten horns (vv. 2, 3).

In the Bible, a faithful woman represents a faithful church or people of God (Jer. 6:2; 1 Cor. 11:2; Eph. 5:20–27), while a harlot woman represents a church that is no longer faithful to God (Jer. 3:1; Hos. 1:2). With this understanding in mind, we see that in Revelation, the pure woman represents the true church while the immoral woman represents a counterfeit. In the context of the great controversy between Christ and Satan, one represents the church God uses to proclaim His final message to every nation and people group in the world (Rev. 14:6) and the other represents the movement that leads the masses to accept the last great deception (Rev. 13:13, 14).

Revelation 10, 12, and 14 are three key chapters that expound on the history, message, and global reach of the remnant church. Revelation 10 prophetically reveals the rise of God’s final movement, Revelation 12 contextualizes this movement within the great controversy and reveals key identifying marks of the remnant, and Revelation 14 articulates the final message God’s people will deliver to the world in preparation for Jesus’ return (Rev. 14:6–12). These chapters of Revelation give us clear qualities to help us know exactly what kind of church to look for.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`Why do you think the major churches that formed during the Reformation eventually stagnated in their growth and progression? Have we grown stagnant in our church? If so, how can we reverse it, and if not, how can we prevent it?`

`How can we remain humble and avoid looking down on other denominations, movements, etc. when we are part of such significant history and prophetic identity?`