---
title:  Restoring the Original
date:   06/11/2023
---

### inTerpret

Revelation 12 is the story of a woman who is victorious over an enraged dragon. It represents an overview of church history from the birth of Christ to the final events with a section in the middle that deals with the origins of the great controversy between Christ and Satan. The first five verses deal with the church in its early phase around the birth of Christ with verse six outlining the prophetic time period of 1,260 years of persecution that would come upon the church.

Chapter 4 of this lesson looked deeper at the time period mentioned in Revelation 12:6, 14 as well as what the earth symbolizes in verse 16. For review, the time period when the woman (or church) was fleeing from persecution was from a.d. 538 to 1798. The earth that helped the woman represented places of refuge where persecuted people could find relief—places such as the United States of America, a land that allowed people to worship freely without a state sponsored religion or denomination. After 1798 a time of great religious awakening occurred especially in North America. As the religious bodies were able to grow unshackled by religious persecution, many movements grew organically. One such group was Millerite Adventism, which transformed into Sabbatarian Adventism and eventually became the Seventh-day Adventist Church.

The struggle between the woman and the dragon reaches a final confrontation in verse 17. Satan is angry at the woman (church) and turns against the remnant of her seed with terrible ferocity. A “remnant” is the last part of something larger, no different from the original. In the original church in the book of Acts, we see the two characteristics that verse 17 mentions: keeping the commandments of God and having the testimony of Jesus. The early church kept all the commandments, including the Sabbath, and they had the gift of prophecy manifested in several prophets and prophetesses throughout Acts. We also see that the early church was driven by the commission to take the gospel to the whole world (Acts 1:8). The early sisterhood of churches made certain decisions together (see Acts 15), and the book of Acts and the New Testament epistles record many instances of the sisterhood sharing resources and leaders. Through the power of the Holy Spirit, the churches worked closely together to maximize their missionary ability. They had true Christian fellowship, evangelized tough areas, and had strong leaders who were willing to sacrifice immensely to drive the work forward.

If the remnant is to be like the original, we can expect God’s end-time remnant people to keep all the commandments, have the gift of prophecy, and be organized for mission. Early Adventist leaders saw the need to organize and structure the church to advance our mission and message around the world.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What other characteristics do we see in the early church that we can expect to find in the remnant church?`