---
title:  Faithfulness During a Wilderness Experience
date:   08/11/2023
---

### inVite

Jesus plays a central role in Revelation 12, mentioned in verses 4 and 5 as the male Child who would rule all nations with a rod of iron. These verses also describe the early church that would birth Jesus Christ, the foundation and rock of Christianity throughout history. Elsewhere, we see the fingerprint of Jesus in His dealings with the church. Verse 6 lists two things that were done for the woman (church) who fled into the wilderness: First, God prepared a place for her in the wilderness. This alludes to God’s constant care for His people even through dark days of persecution and violence. Second, God provided food for her during the 1,260 years she was in the wilderness. God spiritually sustained His church through the toughest times of spiritual famine through His Word.

The reality of a wilderness experience is fairly common throughout Scripture. Moses is a key example of this. God taught him patiently and tenderly during his forty-year stay in the desert. He had many things he needed to unlearn and other things he needed to learn before God could use him to deliver Israel out of Egypt. As he spent time away from the limelight of Egyptian royalty, God was able to teach him. The children of Israel had to spend their own forty years in the wilderness learning to follow God. While they were there, God faithfully fed them every day with miracle food from heaven. In the New Testament, Paul also spent some years in the wilderness before he was prepared for active ministry and missionary travels.

A wilderness experience can shelter us from the heat of battle, allow us time for reflection on setbacks, or prepare us for active ministry. Whatever God’s purpose was, He made sure His people were physically sustained during the 1,260 years in the wilderness so they could learn spiritual lessons and grow in faith. It was after this time in the wilderness that the woman of Revelation 12 assumes the title of the remnant and goes forth to proclaim the end-time message.

Had God brought you to a wilderness-type experience? If so, don’t be disheartened; He has a plan in store for you. God has proven His constant faithfulness to us. May we in return be faithful to the plan He has for our lives.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`In what ways did Jesus’ wilderness experience prepare Him for ministry and what lessons can we as a church learn from that?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`