---
title:  The Problem of Cliques in the Church
date:  12/07/2026
---

Paul’s appeal that “there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment” (1 Cor. 1:10, ESV) dominates the first four chapters of 1 Corinthians. In fact, most scholars agree that unity is the all-encompassing theme that binds all the parts of the letter together.

`Read 1 Corinthians 1:12–17. How does this passage help us understand how absurd it is to form cliques around local leaders? What is Paul’s solution?`

Paul employs strong words to portray the lack of unity among the church members in Corinth. He uses the Greek terms _schisma_ (“division,” 1 Cor. 1:10, NKJV) and _eris_ (“contention,” 1 Cor. 1:11, NKJV). The noun _schisma_ (as well as the verb _schizō_, “to split”) is used elsewhere in the New Testament to describe differences of opinion resulting in factions. In turn, the noun _eris_ (“contention”) frequently appears in lists of vices that must not be practiced by Christians.

`Read Romans 1:29, Romans 13:13, 1 Corinthians 3:3, 2 Corinthians 12:20, and Galatians 5:20. What other sins are listed along with eris (“contention,” “strife”)? What does this tell us about how bad it is?`

The disagreements in the church of Corinth came to the surface—even in the form of lawsuits against one another (1 Cor. 6:1–3). “I say this to your shame,” Paul told them (1 Cor. 6:5, NKJV), concerning these lawsuits between church members. In fact, they didn’t lay aside their differences even when celebrating the Lord’s Supper (1 Cor. 11:17–22).

The problem of lack of unity among church members is so terrifying, and Paul is so worried about it, that this is the first issue he addresses in this letter to the Corinthians.

`Read again 1 Corinthians 1:12–27. Then reflect on how this passage helps us understand why cliques are so dangerous to the unity of the church. What can your local church do in order to avoid this problem?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The solemn, earnest prayer of Christ. . . reaches down along the line to our time. What a position is this for fallen man to attain through obedience—oneness with God through Jesus Christ! To what heights we are permitted to rise if we will have respect unto the recompense of the reward! We are to receive power from God that human nature, under the divine working, may not always be perverted and not always be under the depraving, corrupting influence of sin. Human nature, through Jesus Christ, becomes allied to angels—yes, even to the great God.\
Those who are truly connected with God will not be at variance with one another. . . . His Spirit ruling in their hearts will create harmony, love, and unity. The opposite of this works in the children of Satan; there is with them a continual contradiction. Strife and envy and jealousy are the ruling elements. The characteristic of the Christian is the meekness of Christ. Benevolence, kindness, mercy, and love originate from Infinite Wisdom, while the opposite is the unholy fruit of a heart that is not in harmony with Jesus Christ. . . . In union there is strength. In division there is weakness and defeat.\
The most convincing argument we can give to the world of Christ’s mission is to be found in perfect unity. . . . In proportion to our unity with Christ will be our power to save souls.\
If we reach the standard of perfection, our peculiar traits of disposition must be molded in harmony with Christ’s will. Then we shall sit together in heavenly places in Christ. Brethren will work together, without a thought of collision. Little differences, dwelt upon, lead to actions that destroy Christian fellowship. . . . Let us keep drawing near to God, and He will draw near to us. Then, as one, we shall reach upward to Him. The churches will be as gardens of the Lord, under His cultivation. God’s people will be trees of righteousness, planted by the Lord, and watered with the river of life.—Our High Calling, p. 170.

The golden chain of love, binding the hearts of the believers in unity, in bonds of fellowship and love, and in oneness with Christ and the Father, makes the connection perfect, and bears to the world a testimony of the power of Christianity that cannot be controverted. . . .\
Satan understands the power of such a testimony as a witness to the world of what grace can do in transforming character. . . . He will work every conceivable device to break this golden chain which links heart to heart of those who believe the truth and binds them up in close connection with the Father and the Son.\
Those who have never experienced the tender, winning love of Christ cannot lead others to the fountain of life. His love in the heart is a constraining power, which leads men to reveal Him in the conversation, in the tender, pitiful spirit, in the uplifting of the lives of those with whom they associate. . . .\
In the heart renewed by divine grace, love is the ruling principle of action. It modifies the character, governs the impulses, controls the passions, and ennobles the affections. This love, cherished in the soul, sweetens the life, and sheds a refining influence on all around.\
He who loves God supremely and his neighbor as himself will work with the constant realization that he is a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men. Making God’s will his will, he will reveal in his life the transforming power of the grace of Christ. In all the circumstances of life, he will take Christ’s example as his guide.\
Every true, self-sacrificing worker for God is willing to spend and be spent for the sake of others. . . . By earnest, thoughtful efforts to help where help is needed, the true Christian shows his love for God and for his fellow beings. He may lose his life in service. But when Christ comes to gather His jewels to Himself, he will find it again.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 237.