---
title:  Wisdom and Maturity
date:  14/07/2026
---

By and large, cliques result from too high a view of human leaders. This is very threatening to the unity of the church and to the members’ spiritual health, for a distorted view of Christian ministry may lead a church to give excessive importance to certain leaders, all to the detriment of others. The consequence of such behavior is an atmosphere of competition, which can split the church. More than that, if we treat human leaders as central to our Christian identity, we risk moving Christ from the correct position in our lives.

`Read 1 Corinthians 3:1–4. How does Paul here describe the spiritual immaturity of the Corinthians?`

Paul makes it clear that spiritual maturity leads the believer to appreciate the wisdom of God (1 Cor. 2:6, 7), which is communicated to us through the Spirit (1 Cor. 2:13), and which contrasts with the wisdom of this age (1 Cor. 2:6), human wisdom (1 Cor. 2:13). The wisdom of God is unveiled in the cross of Christ (1 Cor. 2:1–4). More precisely, the wisdom of God is revealed in Christ’s suffering, death, and resurrection. Thus, before resuming his appeal for unity (1 Cor. 3:1–17), Paul wants his readers to acknowledge the need for true wisdom and maturity in Christ.

Wise and mature Christians are spiritual people, not carnal, not like infants (1 Cor. 3:1). They compare spiritual things with spiritual things, because “the things of the Spirit . . . are spiritually discerned” (1 Cor. 2:13, 14, NKJV). Wise and mature Christians feed on solid food, not milk (1 Cor. 3:2; compare with Heb. 5:12). The believer “who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since he is a child. But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil” (Heb. 5:13, 14, ESV). Wise and mature Christians do not say, “I am of Paul” or “I am of Apollos” (1 Cor. 3:4), referring to different people.

After all, these people are, like them, “God’s fellow workers” (1 Cor. 3:9, ESV). We, as a church, are God’s field, building, and temple (1 Cor. 3:9, 16, 17). We all belong to God through Christ (1 Cor. 3:11).

`What has been your experience with being disappointed by someone whom you had admired? If you have had this experience, what lessons did you learn from it?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The history of John affords a striking illustration of the way in which God can use aged workers. When John was exiled to the Isle of Patmos, there were many who thought him to be past service, an old and broken reed, ready to fall at any time. But the Lord saw fit to use him still. Though banished from the scenes of his former labor, he did not cease to bear witness to the truth. Even in Patmos he made friends and converts. His was a message of joy, proclaiming a risen Saviour. . . .\
The most tender regard should be cherished for those whose life interest has been bound up with the work of God. These aged workers have stood faithful amid storm and trial. They may have infirmities, but they still possess talents that qualify them to stand in their place in God’s cause. Though worn, and unable to bear the heavier burdens that younger men can and should carry, the counsel they can give is of the highest value.\
They may have made mistakes, but from their failures they have learned to avoid errors and dangers, and are they not therefore competent to give wise counsel? They have borne test and trial, and though they have lost some of their vigor, the Lord does not lay them aside. He gives them special grace and wisdom. . . . The Lord desires the younger laborers to gain wisdom, strength, and maturity by association with these faithful men. . . .\
As those who have spent their lives in the service of Christ draw near to the close of their earthly ministry, they will be impressed by the Holy Spirit to recount the experiences they have had in connection with the work of God. The record of His wonderful dealings with His people, of His great goodness in delivering them from trial, should be repeated to those newly come to the faith. God desires the old and tried laborers to stand in their place, doing their part to save men and women from being swept downward by the mighty current of evil. He desires them to keep the armor on till He bids them lay it down.—Conflict and Courage, p. 363.

When you begin to feel despondent, look unto Jesus, and commune with Him. When you think your brethren misunderstand you, remember that Jesus, your Elder Brother, never makes a mistake. He will judge righteously. The words of Christ uttered in the great day of the feast have a wonderful meaning and power. He lifted up His voice and said, “If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink.” We are not to be driven to Christ. It is our part to come—to make our own choice, and come to the fountain of life. Why should we not come to Christ? for in Him our hope of eternal life is centered. The lessons that have come to us through Christ are not oft-repeated maxims; they are full of vital thought. But it is our part to appropriate divine truth. The apostle Paul exhorts us to lay hold on the hope set before us in the gospel. By faith we are to appropriate the promises of God, and to provide ourselves with the abundant blessings which have been secured for us through Christ Jesus. Hope has been set before us, even the hope of eternal life. Nothing short of this blessing for us will satisfy our Redeemer; but it is our part to lay hold upon this hope by faith in Him who has promised. We may expect to suffer; for it is those who are partakers with Him in His sufferings who shall be partakers with Him in His glory. He has purchased forgiveness and immortality for the sinful, perishing souls of men; but it is our part to receive these gifts by faith. Believing in Him, we have this hope as an anchor of the soul, sure and steadfast. We are to understand that we may confidently expect God’s favor not only in this world, but in the heavenly world, since He paid such a price for our salvation. Faith in the atonement and intercession of Christ will keep us steadfast and immovable amid the temptations that press upon us. . . Let us contemplate the glorious hope that is set before us, and by faith lay hold upon it.—Lift Him Up, p. 331.