---
title:  A Lifestyle That Reflects the Cross
date:  16/07/2026
---

The fact that we should not form cliques, especially around human leaders, does not mean we should not support our leaders. We are supposed to appreciate and help those who lead out in church work. God commissions people to do His ministry on earth. Church leaders who display a lifestyle that reflects the submissions represented by the Cross are worthy of being heard and followed.

And this is so because only the Cross has the power to reverse any manipulative form of control in favor of submission to God’s Word. Christlike leaders attribute the success of their ministry to God alone. In His earthly ministry, even Jesus as a human assigned glory to God (John 17:4).

According to Paul, faithful Christian ministry must be grounded upon what we can call a theology of the Cross. The Cross is God’s revelation of His wisdom and power to save. At the same time, it also displays human wisdom as foolishness. In 1 Corinthians 4:1–13, Paul makes it clear what such a theology of the Cross looks like. First, he indicates that it is God who sets the standard for Christian leadership (1 Cor. 4:1–5). Second, he points to the fact that suffering is the trademark of true Christian ministry (1 Cor. 4:9, 11–13). This second point deserves to be further developed.

`Read 2 Corinthians 11:23–28 and Colossians 1:24. What does this teach us about what it means to suffer for Christ’s sake?`

Christian leaders follow the footprints of Jesus by being willing to suffer for their fellow brothers and sisters, and even if need be die for the sake of their ministry. Paul refers to himself and Apollos as “men condemned to death” (1 Cor. 4:9, NKJV). They are portrayed as facing a lack of food and water, as well as being “poorly clothed, and beaten, and homeless” (1 Cor. 4:11, NKJV). In addition, they were also reviled, persecuted, defamed, and “made as the filth of the world, the offscouring of all things until now” (1 Cor. 4:12, 13, NKJV). Furthermore, by referring ironically to the Corinthians as rich, kings, wise, and distinguished (1 Cor. 4:8, 10), Paul demonstrates that pride must have no place in true Christian leadership, for it is the root of division in the church (1 Cor. 4:6).

`How much have you suffered for Christ’s sake, whatever your role in the church? What lessons might be found in your answer?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Remove the cross from the Christian and it is like blotting out the sun which illumines the day, and dropping the moon and the stars out of the firmament of the heavens at night. The cross of Christ brings us nigh to God, reconciling man to God, and God to man. The Father looks upon the cross, upon the suffering He has given His Son to endure in order to save the race from hopeless misery and to draw man to Himself. He looks upon it with the relenting compassion of a Father’s love. The cross has been almost lost sight of, but without the cross there is no connection with the Father, no unity with the Lamb in the midst of the throne in heaven, no welcome reception of the wandering who would return to the forsaken path of righteousness and truth, no hope for the transgressor in the day of judgment. Without the cross there is no means provided for overcoming the power of our strong foe. Every hope of the race hangs upon the cross.\
When the sinner reaches the cross, and looks up to the One who died to save him, he may rejoice with fullness of joy; for his sins are pardoned. Kneeling at the cross, he has reached the highest place to which man can attain. The light of the knowledge of the glory of God is revealed in the face of Jesus Christ; and the words of pardon are spoken: Live, O ye guilty sinners, live. Your repentance is accepted; for I have found a ransom.\
Through the cross we learn that our heavenly Father loves us with an infinite and everlasting love, and draws us to Him with more than a mother’s yearning sympathy for a wayward child. Can we wonder that Paul exclaimed, “God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ”? It is our privilege also to glory in the cross of Calvary, our privilege to give ourselves wholly to Him who gave Himself for us. Then with the light of love that shines from His face on ours, we shall go forth to reflect it to those in darkness.—Our High Calling, p. 46.

The mind must be trained to dwell upon heavenly things. Humility will come as the result of discerning the loveliness of Jesus Christ. Dwelling upon Christ’s excellencies of character, we shall see the offensive character of sin and will by faith grasp the righteousness of Jesus Christ. We will cultivate the virtues that dwell in Jesus, that we may reflect to others a representation of His character. When we look at the cross of Calvary, we will not exalt self, but keep constantly in view our unworthiness and how much our salvation cost heaven; we will discern Christ’s matchless love.—This Day With God, p. 261.