---
title:  inTro
date:   05/07/2026
---

**Read This Week’s Passage:** John 13

### What’s Going On Here?

Shortly after I graduated from high school, some friends invited me over to their house for a weekly Bible study. People of different faith backgrounds were there—Baptists, a Catholic, and me, at that time still a Baptist but becoming interested in the Adventist message. One evening at the Bible study, my friend Alexis and her boyfriend Luke had us all sit in a big circle. They left the room and came back with a pitcher of water and a towel. I remember thinking to myself, What’s going on here? Then they told us about what Jesus did in John 13 and began to wash everyone’s feet, one by one.

I remember feeling apprehensive. It was humiliating and yet endearing at the same time. I sensed the presence of God in that room, and it was a deeply spiritual and meaningful experience, something I will never forget.

My first encounter with the idea of foot washing came from these young friends, and the experience was deeply impactful. Not long after that, I went to an Adventist church I had recently begun to attend. On Communion Sabbath, the pastor’s wife connected me with an elderly gentleman whom I partnered with for foot washing. I remember thinking to myself, I’ve seen this before! I knew exactly what it was and why it was important because of the example my friends had given me. After that foot washing service, my friendship with the elderly gentleman grew, and I eventually became his caretaker until he passed away.

Let’s rewind nearly two thousand years to the Passover meal Jesus and His disciples were about to enjoy. What Jesus foretold about a room already being prepared for them proved true (Mark 14:12–16). Jesus told two of His disciples that they must go to town where they would find a man carrying a pitcher of water who would have a room available and ready to use. Before Jesus was betrayed and crucified, He wanted people to know that He saw the future perfectly and none of the events of this weekend would take Him by surprise.

In the evening, the disciples assembled with Jesus in the upper room. There was a pause, however. People’s feet needed to be washed, but no servant was present. It was up to the disciples to do something, but that required someone to humble themselves and serve the group. Unfortunately, a spirit of contention and bitterness prevailed among the disciples, and no one was willing to take the task on.

This proud attitude broke Jesus’ heart. He was about to die. He needed to share many more things with His disciples, but their hearts were not in a place to receive His words. He waited to see if anyone would make the first move and do what needed to be done, but no one responded. So, He laid aside His outer garment, girded Himself with a towel like a servant, and began to gently rebuke the spirit in the air by serving them Himself.

Peter was instantly horrified that Jesus had stooped to this level. Like so many others, he envisioned Jesus wielding a sword and a scepter—not a towel. He envisioned Jesus wearing royal robes, not a servant’s garments. Everything about this picture seemed completely wrong to Peter.

In today’s world, kings and statesmen pay large sums to commission exceptional portraits that memorialize them in history. Often these paintings or photos portray the subject in their very best uniform and surrounded by symbols of power and luxury. The picture of Jesus is entirely different. Instead of standing tall and commanding respect, He kneels in service to His disciples.

The disciples had prepared a table but had forgotten to prepare their hearts. When Jesus washed their feet, it was to convict them of their own need for cleansing and humility. He desired to give them a practical illustration of the principles He taught.

### inScribe

Make an outline or mind map of John 13. Write out verses 10–17 from the translation of your choice or rewrite it in your own words. Look for the meaning and purpose of the foot washing.

Review your scribed passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [Arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

` `