---
title:  inGest
date:   06/07/2026
---

### One of You Will Betray Me

The closing scenes of Christ’s life reveal God’s deep, unshakable love for us. “Having loved His own who were in the world, He loved them to the end” (John 13:1). This statement is pretty incredible when you think about how the narrative continues. Judas betrays Him, yet Jesus loves him to the end. Peter denies Him, yet He loves him to the end. All His disciples flee from Him in His greatest time of need, yet He loves them to the end. The leaders and people mock Him and crucify Him, yet He loves them to the end.

What unfolded in the upper room was Christ’s love on display. Though He knew He had more authority than all earthly kings combined, though He knew He held the destiny of the world in His hands, He decided to wash His disciples’ feet—including Judas’. That’s difficult for us to wrap our minds around. God’s heart works in ways completely foreign to our fallen hearts. He gives, serves, loves, and invites regardless of whether we respond. “God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us” (Rom. 5:8). Even if we reject Him, Christ is patient and never stops longing for us to reciprocate His love.

It’s important to note that when Judas experienced Christ’s love in this way, he had to make a choice. Would he yield to Jesus’ drawing love, or would he continue following the path he had chosen? Ultimately, Judas hardened himself to Jesus’ pursuit and went through with his plans. Jesus revealed very clearly that He knew what Judas was going to do (John 13:21). Yet again, Judas chose to move forward with his betrayal.

John alludes to Judas’ betrayal at least fifteen times in this chapter. It’s clearly a major turning point in the Gospel. However, a crucial theme in this narrative is the contrast between Judas’ cruel betrayal and Jesus’ actions in the face of that betrayal. Despite Judas’ contribution to His death, Jesus truly loved Judas to the end. He humbled Himself and served Judas by washing his feet. The level of selfless love required to do such a thing is hard for us to grasp. This is precisely why Jesus came to earth: to reveal to us, in a tangible form, the true nature of the Father’s love for us. This love is far deeper and more wonderful than we could ever imagine.

**Questions to consider:**

`When have you experienced deep conviction when you had to choose between yielding to God or doing your own thing? What did it feel like, and how did you respond? What would you change if you could?`

`How does God’s love differ from human love?`