---
title:  inTerpret
date:   07/07/2026
---

### I Have Prayed for You

Peter had served as a leader among the disciples and was part of Jesus’ inner circle. However, Peter had his challenges. He was brash, impulsive, and short-tempered, often struggling to fully understand Jesus’ mission and heart. What’s encouraging about Peter’s story, though, is that when he was corrected, he eventually came around.

We see Peter’s personality and character on full display in the upper room when Jesus tried to wash his feet. Peter protested and refused to allow such a thing. Jesus told him, “If I do not wash you, you have no part with Me” (John 13:8). At this, Peter didn’t just back down, he completely reversed his stance: “Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head!” (John 13:9). Jesus maintained His original intent and assured Peter, somewhat humorously, that He only needed to wash his feet.

Later during the feast, Jesus focused on Peter (also called Simon) again and tried to prepare him for what was about to happen. Luke’s account records Jesus pleading with him in earnest: “Simon, Simon! Indeed, Satan has asked for you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for you, that your faith should not fail; and when you have returned to Me, strengthen your brethren” (Luke 22:31, 32). Once again, Peter protested, declaring that he was willing to die for Jesus. Yet Jesus warned him that he would deny Him three times before daybreak. Jesus knew Peter better than he knew himself.

A similar foretelling of Peter’s denial appears in John’s Gospel, but it’s followed by quite a remarkable statement. It’s important to note that when the Bible was originally written, it did not include chapter or verse divisions. This caused the narrative to flow more fluidly as it wasn’t broken into separate, disconnected sections. That’s significant because, after the difficult conversation about Peter’s denial at the end of John 13, Jesus immediately said these famous words: “Let not your heart be troubled;… I go to prepare a place for you [Peter]. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to Myself; that where I am, there you may be also” (John 14:1–3).

While it’s true that this beautiful promise is for all believers, in context, Peter was the first to receive these words. This changes everything! We often hide our problems because we’re afraid people might stop liking us or might view us differently. The beauty of Christ is that He knows us fully and still loves us completely. He knows every one of our sins, yet His desire to be with us remains unchanged. He promises us a home anyway.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what are your main takeaways? What questions emerge? What parts are difficult?`

`How does Peter’s story give you a deeper understanding of God’s persistent love?`

`Memorize your favorite passage from John 13. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`