---
title:  inVite
date:   09/07/2026
---

### A New Era

Passover was both a religious festival and a national holiday celebrating their independence from Egypt. During the annual Passover ceremony, every Jew remembered how God delivered the children of Israel from Pharaoh, king of Egypt (see Exod. 12). The sacrifice of a Passover lamb promised deliverance, which was fulfilled in Jesus (1 Cor. 5:7). In the upper room, Jesus established the New Testament symbols of bread and (unfermented) wine, which represent His broken body and shed blood. The Lord’s Supper from the New Testament replaced the Passover supper from the Old Testament. The Lord’s Supper is meant to help us better understand His sacrifice and what we’re called to do in response.

Jesus asks His followers to eat of His body and drink of His blood. At surface level, this request sounds strange, but the act of eating and drinking means receiving something into ourselves so fully that it becomes a part of us—even at a cellular level. This is not a mindless observance; it is deeply internal and meaningful. At the core of these two ceremonies, Jesus is saying He does not desire a mere outward, ritualistic religion—something the Jews had largely reduced the Passover to. Instead, He wants us to internalize the truth of the gospel and regularly reconsecrate ourselves to this reality. That’s why He said, “This do, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me” (1 Cor. 11:25). The Lord’s Supper should be a deeply meaningful experience that we look forward to celebrating regularly with other believers.

After Judas left and the supper ended, Jesus gave His disciples a new commandment, which is really the oldest commandment of all. Jesus called it new because His disciples had so little experience with it. It’s not just a commandment to love but to love one another “as I have loved you” (John 13:34). That little qualifier changes everything, doesn’t it? How did Jesus love them? John 13:1 tells us that “He loved them to the end”—the end of Himself. You may think, That’s impossible! and you’d be right—on our own, it is impossible. But that’s the point. If Jesus doesn’t live within us and fill us with that kind of love, we cannot love others as He loved us. As Ellen White says, “Whatever is to be done at His command may be accomplished in His strength. All His biddings are enablings.”<sup>1</sup>

The good news is that whatever Christ requires of us, He’s also willing to empower us to do. Indeed, God is the only One who can give us this kind of love for each other and for the world around us.

**Questions to consider:**

`When’s the next time your church is celebrating Communion? How can you help make it a better experience for your friends?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _Christ’s Object Lessons_ (1900), 333.