---
title:  inQuire
date:   11/07/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**A servant:**

1. How far does Jesus’ love go? John 13:1
2. While many leaders would be too proud or insecure to fill the role of a servant, what made Jesus different? John 13:1–5
3. Why do you think Peter was shocked and resistant to Jesus washing his feet? John 13:6–11
4. What’s the meaning behind foot washing, and why should we wash one another’s feet? John 13:12–17

`Personal reflection: What has your experience with foot washing been? Do you find it meaningful, awkward, or both? Share how it has impacted you in a good way.`

**Betrayed and denied:**

1. Why was it important for Jesus to identify his betrayer? How did Jesus show His love to Judas and try to save Him? John 13:18–30
2. How did Jesus show that He both knew and loved Peter? John 13:36—14:4
3. How did Jesus try to help Peter? How can we avoid overestimating ourselves? Luke 22:31–34

`Personal reflection: Peter repented and grew; Judas took his own life in shame and regret. What determines which direction our lives will go?`

**A new memorial:**

1. What new practice did Jesus establish for all Christians to follow? John 13:14, 15; 1 Cor. 11:25, 26
2. How did Jesus fulfill the Old Testament symbols of the Passover? 1 Cor. 5:7

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Jesus truly loved Judas to the end. He washed his feet and gave him opportunities to change course, but Judas hardened himself to Christ’s love.
- Jesus predicted Peter’s denial yet also affirmed His love for Peter. Peter ultimately repented and grew from his failure.
- Jesus knows us better than anyone else and yet loves us more than anyone else could.