---
title:  Paul’s Authority and Gospel
date:   01/07/2017
---

> <p></p>
> “For do I now persuade men, or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I still pleased men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ” (Gal. 1:10, NKJV).

**Introduction**: Gal. 1:6–9; 2 Pet. 3:16

**Lost in Translation**

Nike has “Just Do It” and McDonald’s, “I’m Lovin’ It.” For five years HSBC, one of the world’s largest banks, used “Assume Nothing.” It was a pretty good tagline for a bank, conjuring up images of personalized services tailored to an individual’s financial needs. Yet, in 2009, the multinational bank spent some USD 10 million to change its tagline.Why?Their well-intentioned tagline had been translated in many countries as “Do Nothing,” which conjures up images of, well, pretty lazy bankers.

Just think back to the last time you had to say, “That’s not what I meant.”

While HSBC experienced a classic case of lost in translation, we don’t actually have to switch languages to experience being misinterpreted or misunderstood. Just think back to the last time you had to say, “That’s not what I meant.”

The apostle Paul experienced just that about 20 years after the death of Jesus, at a time when the gospel was spreading like wildfire over the then-known world. “Go and make disciples of all nations” (Matt. 28:19, NIV), Jesus had said, and His disciples took the instruction seriously. The message of God’s grace and salvation was spread not only to notable cities of the Roman Empire but to countries in Asia Minor as well. It was told to Jews and Gentiles alike, a highly controversial and nontraditional approach for the time, when the Jews believed that they, via descent from the ancient Israelites, were the specially chosen people to be in a covenant with God (Deut. 14:2).

And if certain members of the early Christian church had had their way, Christianity would not be the world’s largest religious group today.* To these Jews, “all nations” simply meant Jews in other parts of the world. Gentiles could join the Christian church, but there were conditions—they essentially had to become Jews, following Jewish customs, including being circumcised.

The gospel, as Jesus decreed, was simple. It was not about works and obedience to the law but about faith.To be a member of the Christian church, one only had to believe in Jesus’ saving grace—not obey Jewish customs.The letter to the Galatians returns to the heart of the gospel, addressing the important themes of Christianity.

_* “The Global Religious Landscape,” Pew Research Center, December 18, 2012, http://www.pewforum.org/2012/12/18/global-religious-landscape-exec/._

_Daniel Bell, Wahroonga, New South Wales, Australia_