---
title:  Enslaved to Christ
date:   02/07/2017
---

**Evidence**: Gal. 1:10

As mentioned by Paul in his salutation, the churches of Galatia had been ministered to by Paul prior to the epistle he sent to them. However, along the way Paul identified that the churches he served had deviated from the original teaching he gave them. Certain “false” gospels started to emerge among the congregations.To respond to this problem, Paul felt the responsibility to correct and bring back the people to the truth.

This responsibility was driven not because of a mere political or sociological motive.The reason Paul addressed the issue was also not because he wanted to gain respect from the churches once more or because he thought that as the “pioneer” he had the right to say something about it.

**It is critical to understand the authority that empowers us to do what we do.**

Paul clearly stated that his motivation to address the errors was driven by his relationship to God as His bondservant. The word bondservant comes from the Greek word doulos. While some Bible versions translate the word as “servant,” it carries a deeper, more complex meaning than merely describing a servant. Doulos was used to describe the lowest type of slave in the ancient Greek civilization.A doulos had no personal rights, and their freedom fully depended on their master. Paul no longer had any right to his life, but rather all that he did now was to fulfill the request and command of his Master.It was not for any personal agenda or intent but for the sake of the true Lord and Master, Jesus Christ.

It is critical to understand the authority that empowers us to do what we do. Such questions were asked to Jesus as well (Mark 11:28) and to many other characters in the Bible, such as Moses (Num.12:1), David (1 Sam.17:45), and Jeremiah (Jer.28:9). Only those who really have a deep, authentic relationship with God are the ones who are able to manifest the true power of God in their lives and ministry, just as in the life of Paul, the conviction that Christ was indeed his Master empowered him to be bold in preaching the gospel and even to give his life for his Master.

**React**

`1. How can we reconcile the concept of freedom in Christ with the idea that we are “enslaved” in Him?`

`2. How do we know that we do things for the Lord with the same conviction as Paul and are not using God’s name in vain (Exod. 20:7) by having our own plans and agendas?`

_Lerie Paculanang, Singapore_