---
title:  Apostle’s Assertion
date:   03/07/2017
---

**Logos**: Acts 9:1–10; 1 Cor. 1:4; Galatians 1; Eph. 1:2; Col. 1:2

The book of Galatians is known to be the other New Testament book that deals with the discussion of salvation besides the book of Romans. However, what is unique from the book of Galatians is that Paul used a stronger assertion in his comments concerning the issue that happened in the churches of Galatia. Further, he was clear about the role that he had in order for him to qualify to address the issue—he was an apostle. Throughout the first two chapters of Galatians, Paul used language as if he were trying to pull rank to get through with what he had in mind for the churches. Why such an approach?

**There is no other good news that Christianity can bring without Jesus being the center of it.**

**The Gospel: It’s a Personal Matter (Gal. 1:6–10)**

In Galatians 1:6–10, Paul expresses his disappointment and, further, his resistance toward the “gospel” that was taught in a very direct manner. He even uses an expression to say that those who taught a different gospel should be accursed (verses 8, 9)! Such strong expression may be associated with Paul’s personality, which is known to be very direct and sometimes harsh.

However, a closer look at the passage indicates that the reason Paul was very strong with his language was not only a matter of a personality. For Paul, the message of the true gospel may not please all humans, but he was not there to be politically correct (verse 10). Second, the gospel was not a human invention but a message from Jesus Himself (verses 11, 12). In other words, the gospel goes beyond human business. It’s a divine solution for the problem of sin.

However, it’s easy to imagine that some of the members of Galatian churches may have asked the critical question, “How does Paul know that his teaching of the gospel is the one coming from God?” Paul seemed to expect such a question would arise and immediately answered it by giving his testimony on how his experience with Jesus had changed his life (verses 13–24).

His encounter with Jesus on the road to Damascus was so real that it was hard for him not to preach about it (Acts 9:1–10).The gospel indeed must be a personal matter and not only a story being heard. Until a person discovers the power of the gospel through personal experience, the message of salvation in Jesus can be just a good story with no real-life application.

**The Gospel: It’s All About Jesus (Gal. 1:11, 12)**

Another poignant point in Paul’s introduction is his emphasis in saying that his message is not about his own agenda. Rather, it is about the revelation of Jesus Christ (Gal. 1:11, 12). Such an expression is consistent throughout many of Paul’s letters to different churches in pointing out that Jesus was the only reason he gave his life to be the messenger of Christ (1 Cor. 1:4; Eph. 1:2, Col. 1:2).

There is no other good news that Christianity can bring without Jesus being the center of it. What makes the gospel so powerful is its center being the message of salvation in Jesus. Without that, Christianity has no unique message to share with others. This is why Paul was very upset when the churches of Galatia started to add in teachings that included Jesus as just a “part” of salvation and not the ultimate way of salvation (Gal. 2:15, 16).

**React**

`1. What is your personal experience with Christ that can make you find the same conviction as Paul did in changing his whole life to become a messenger of the gospel?`

`2. What are some of the things that we may “add” to the message of salvation that can dilute the true power of salvation in Jesus Himself?`

_Bayu Kaumpungan, Singapore_