---
title:  To Obey Is Better Than Sacrifice
date:   04/07/2017
---

**Testimony**: 1 Sam. 15:22; Hos. 6:6; Mark 12:33; Luke 11:42; Gal. 1:10

Saul heard the word of God: he was supposed to destroy the Amalekites completely, keeping no spoils of war, but instead he spared the best of the sheep and cattle “to sacrifice to the Lord” (1 Sam. 15:21, NKJV).

In a similar situation, “there were those in Paul’s day who were constantly dwelling upon circumcision, and they could bring plenty of proof from the Bible to show its obligation on the Jews; but this teaching was of no consequence at this time;for Christ had died upon Calvary’s cross, and circumcision in the flesh could not be of any further value.”1

What God wanted was not the sacrifice of circumcision but obedience to His call that “the time had come for an entirely new phase of work to be entered upon by the church of Christ. The door that many of the Jewish converts had closed againsttheGentiles was nowtobethrownopen.AndtheGentiles who accepted the gospel were to be regarded as on an equality with the Jewish disciples, without the necessity of observing the rite of circumcision.”2

**Obedience is the response of someone who is in a relationship of trust with God.**

“As a precautionary measure, Paul wisely advised Timothy to be circumcised—not that God required it, but in order to remove from the minds of the Jews that which might be an objection to Timothy’s ministration. In his work Paul was to journey from city to city, in many lands, and often he would have opportunity to preach Christ in Jewish synagogues, as well as in other places of assembly. If it should be known that one of his companions in labor was uncircumcised, his work might be greatly hindered by the prejudice and bigotry of the Jews. Everywhere the apostle met determined opposition and severe persecution. He desired to bring to his Jewish brethren, as well as to the Gentiles, a knowledge of the gospel, and therefore he sought, so far as was consistent with the faith, to remove every pretext for opposition.Yet while he conceded this much to Jewish prejudice, he believed and taught circumcision or uncircumcision to be nothing and the gospel of Christ everything.”3

Obedience is the response of someone who is in a relationship of trust with God. We trust and depend on God. He takes the lead. Obedience is better than sacrifice because we are letting God take His rightful place of leadership while we remain in our rightful place with Him—the place of dependence and surrender to His providence.

<sup>1. The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, 2nd ed., vol. 6, p. 1061.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 136.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., p. 204.</sup>

_Faith Toh, Singapore_