---
title:  “Ye of Little Faith”
date:   05/07/2017
---

**How-to**: Rom. 3:28; Gal. 1:6–9

On a cool October day in 1517, Martin Luther, a nondescript priest who taught theology at the University of Wittenberg, Germany, walked toward the city’s All Saints’ Church. He was on a mission. In his hands was what would later become known as his Ninety-Five Theses, and tradition has it that he nailed it to the door of the church.Whatever prompted Luther’s actions, that history, today, marks as the start of the Protestant Reformation?

**Our actions do not determine our salvation, but they do reﬂect who we are.**

Luther was essentially protesting against current church practices that he believed had deviated from the essence of the gospel. Just as the apostle Paul wrote the letter to the Galatians, Luther wrote his Ninety-Five Theses to remind the Christian leaders that forgiveness from God comes through faith alone; no further actions are necessary.

But human nature is such that we like things to be concrete. Intangible concepts such as faith and forgiveness can be especially difficult to comprehend, especially when we know we’ve made terrible mistakes in our pasts. So how can we strengthen our faith?

Ask Him to give you faith.Just as God is interested in the practical aspects of our lives, He is concerned about our spiritual needs as well. Remember the man who exclaimed, “ ‘I do believe; help me overcome my unbelief!’ ” (Mark 9:24, NIV).

Keep a journal. If you are not in the habit of writing one, you don’t have to keep a daily diary of your thoughts and activities. But it is still a good idea to at least jot down moments when God made Himself especially real to you. These will serve to encourage you when you feel your faith is running on low.

Thank Him for forgiving you.This probably doesn’t make much sense, especially if you don’t feel forgiven.But thank Him anyway.Motivational coaches often tell us to post inspirational quotes where we can see them for the very same reason—what we think and say will eventually become our reality.

Anybody who tells you that you need to do something or obey something is preaching to you a gospel other than what you accepted. Our actions do not determine our salvation, but they do reflect who we are.

**React**

`1. What other things can you do to strengthen your faith?`

`2. Why do you think concentrating on “works” can be harmful for your Christian faith?`

_Melody Tan, Wahroonga, New South Wales, Australia_