---
title:  What If?
date:   06/07/2017
---

**Opinion**: Acts 15:1–5; Rom. 1:16, 17; Gal. 1:6–10

When I first started going to church in my early teenage years, I was told very quickly how to “behave.” There were certain things I shouldn’t do, and I had to wear only a certain type of clothing that was considered “appropriate.” Essentially, I had to fit a certain mold in order to be considered a member—and I thought that was what it meant to be a Christian.

**Our duty to God is to reﬂect His character.**

My concept of Christianity—along with my faith—came crumbling down the first few weeks I started attending a Seventh-day Adventist university in a different country. People did things I thought you weren’t allowed to do and dressed differently than what I was led to believe was expected of a church member. And, yet, it was obvious they were deeply committed Christians who were in love with God.

Is our relationship with God and the basis of our salvation dependent on what we do or do not do? If it is, where do cultural norms and personal prejudices end and the gospel begin?

God obviously expects a certain standard from us when it comes to following and honoring Him. But He gave us rules, restrictions, and even the Ten Commandments, not to show us what we have to do to belong to the family of God; He gave them to us to protect us from the unwanted consequences of disobeying His commands.

Our duty to God is to reflect His character. After all, “we all, who with unveiled faces contemplate the Lord’s glory, are being transformed into his image with ever-increasing glory, which comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit” (2 Cor. 3:18, NIV). In other words, we become more like whatever we focus our attentions on. But whatever we do, we do out of the love we have for Him, not out of the fear of missing out on heaven if we did otherwise.

When it comes to our salvation, God gives it to “everyone who believes” (Rom. 1:16, NIV; emphasis added). In our relationships with Him, we have an assurance of salvation on the basis of faith alone. Our actions are to please God. Most important, it is not up to us to decide how people should behave, it is up to God.

**React**

`1. Can you think of any “Christian behaviors” that are the result of cultural norms and personal prejudices—and not biblically based?`

`2. How can you ensure you are seeking to please God and not humans in your behavior?`

_Rislyn Soo, Wahroonga, New South Wales, Australia_
