---
title:  God’s Opinion Outshines the World’s
date:   07/07/2017
---

**Exploration**: Galatians 1

**Conclude**

As this week’s lessons illustrate, Paul wrote this letter to make the Gentiles understand that his message wasn’t written by humans. God inspired the words and Paul spoke them. It wasn’t Paul’s message—it was God’s. We don’t have to ponder the lies people try to make us believe because we have God’s Word to compare those lies against. As Galatians 1:10 says, God’s opinion is all that matters. We don’t need to please this world or believe it; we only need to please God—the one who made us and loves us regardless of who we are.

**Consider**

- Writing a poem about letting the distractions and lies of this world fade away until all that matters is God.
- Creating a collage of pictures representing the lies people feed you and then drawing a large red slash through it to remind you that God’s opinion of you should always be more important.
- Observing birds while you’re riding your bike, walking, or driving down the street. Ponder their uniqueness and the fact that no matter how strangely they act—they never change and God accepts them just like He accepts you.
- Starting a Bible study with some of your friends and looking at the lives of such people as Mary Magdalene, who allowed God’s opinion of her to overshadow anyone else’s.
- Turning Galatians 1:10 into your daily prayer to remind you that God’s Word and His opinion is all that matters.

**Connect**

1. Corinthians 15:1–11; 1 Thessalonians 2:1–12.
2. Ellen G. White, Acts of the Apostles, chapter 36, “The Trial at Caesarea.”
3. Jack Kuhatschek, Galatians: Why God Accepts Us (Lifeguide Bible Studies, 2000), chapters 1, 2.
4. Timothy Keller, Galatians for You (The Good Book Company, 2013), chapters 1, 2.

_Mindi Vetter, Newman Lake, Washington, USA_