---
title:  Worthy Is the Lamb.
date:  23/01/2019
---

`Read Revelation 5:8–14 along with Ephesians 1:20–23 and Hebrews 10:12. Together, what are they saying that should give us great hope and comfort amid a world that, in and of itself, offers so little of either?`

As Christ the Lamb approaches the throne, He takes the scroll. This act shows that all authority and sovereignty belong to Him (see Matt. 28:18, Eph. 1:20–22). At that moment, the whole universe acknowledges Christ’s rightful rule over earth. What was lost with Adam has been regained with Christ.

When Christ takes the scroll, it shows He holds the destiny of all humanity in His hands. The four living creatures and the 24 elders fall down before Him and worship, as they did in Revelation 5:9: “ ‘You are worthy to take the scroll, and to open its seals; for You were slain’ ” (NKJV). By this act of adoration, the exalted angels and the representatives of redeemed humanity affirm Christ’s sacrifice on behalf of humanity. With His blood, He has paid the ransom for fallen human beings and offers them all the hope of redemption and the promise of a future we barely can imagine.

The four living creatures and the elders are now joined by the countless number of the angelic host surrounding the throne and directing praises to the Lamb that had been slain and now “lives to make intercession” for the fallen race (Heb. 7:25, NKJV). In unison, the occupants of the throne room exclaim with a loud voice: “ ‘Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing!’ ” (Rev. 5:12, NKJV).

At this point all creation in heaven and on earth joins together in offering royal adoration both to the Father and Christ: “ ‘Blessing and honor and glory and power be to Him who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb, forever and ever!’ ” (Rev. 5:13, NKJV). Their praise is met with an “ ‘Amen’ ” by the four living creatures and the prostration of the 24 elders, thus concluding this rapturous veneration in the heavenly throne room.

`Physicists speculate that one day the universe will burn out, collapse in on itself, or just rip apart. What a contrast to the future presented in the Word of God! How can we start rejoicing, even now, in the future that awaits us?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

A voice said, “Jesus, who is seated upon the throne, has so loved man that he gave his life a sacrifice to redeem him from the power of Satan, and to exalt him to his throne. He who is above all powers, he who has the greatest influence in heaven and in earth, he to whom every soul is indebted for every favor he has received, was meek and lowly in disposition, holy, harmless, and undefiled in life. . . . 

Strong and terrible have become the masters of iniquity in the world under the control of Satan, but strong is the Lord God who judgeth Babylon. The just have no longer anything to fear from force or fraud as long as they are loyal and true. A mightier than the strong man armed is set for their defense. All power and greatness and excellence of character will be given to those who have believed and stood in defense of the truth, standing up and firmly defending the laws of God.—_Selected Messages_, book 3, p. 429.

We need not wait till we are translated to follow Christ. God’s people may do this here below. We shall follow the Lamb of God in the courts above only if we follow Him here. . . . We are not to follow Christ fitfully or capriciously, only when it is for our advantage. We must choose to follow Him. In daily life we must follow His example, as a flock trustfully follows its shepherd. We are to follow Him by suffering for His sake, saying at every step, “Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him” (Job 13:15). His life practice must be our life practice. And as we thus seek to be like Him and to bring our wills into conformity to His will we shall reveal Him.—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 298.

It is a law of nature that our thoughts and feelings are encouraged and strengthened as we give them utterance.

While words express thoughts, it is also true that thoughts follow words. If we would give more expression to our faith, rejoice more in the blessings that we know we have,—the great mercy and love of God,—we should have more faith and greater joy. No tongue can express, no finite mind can conceive, the blessing that results from appreciating the goodness and love of God. Even on earth we may have joy as a wellspring, never failing, because fed by the streams that flow from the throne of God. 

Then let us educate our hearts and lips to speak the praise of God for His matchless love. Let us educate our souls to be hopeful and to abide in the light shining from the cross of Calvary. Never should we forget that we are children of the heavenly King, sons and daughters of the Lord of hosts. It is our privilege to maintain a calm repose in God.—_The Ministry of Healing, _pp. 251–253.