---
title:  Further Thought
date:  25/01/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘To My Father, and Your Father,’ ” pp. 829–835, in The Desire of Ages; “The Gift of the Spirit,” pp. 47–56, in The Acts of the Apostles.

The message of Revelation 4 and 5 is particularly important to the people of God living at the close of earth’s history. The coming of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost marked the beginning of the preaching of the gospel to all the world; the central message was about Jesus, who had been exalted as Priest and King at the right hand of the Father. This truth about Jesus was the heart of the early Christians’ belief (Heb. 8:1) and the cornerstone of their preaching (Acts 2:32, 33; Acts 5:30, 31). It also was their motivation and the source of their faith and courage in the face of persecution and difficult life situations (Acts 7:55, 56; Rom. 8:34). As a result, many people responded to their preaching. From that time on, the kingdom of God manifested itself, and keeps on doing so, through the ministry of the Holy Spirit.

We never must forget that it is only the good news of salvation in Christ that can reach and transform human hearts and lead people to respond to the call of the eternal gospel to fear God, give Him glory, and worship Him (Rev. 14:7). Our only hope is in our Savior, who is our Priest and King in the heavenly sanctuary. He is with His people, and He always will be with them until the very end (Matt. 28:20). He holds the future in His hands.

Let us, therefore, never forget that keeping the essence of the gospel in mind will bring full success in preaching the final message to lost and suffering humankind. Nothing else we preach is more important than the Cross and what it teaches us about God.

**Discussion Questions**:

`One day we will be in heaven praising and worshiping the Lord for His goodness, His power, and especially His grace. What are ways that, even now, we can get in practice for the time when that great day comes? That is, how can we worship with grateful hearts and praise God now for all that He has done and will do?`

`Read Revelation 4:11 and 5:9. In what roles do we see the Father and the Son here, and how are both roles central not just to the plan of salvation but also to why God is so worthy of our worship? How is the Sabbath, and what it teaches, an expression of these two wonderful truths about our God?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_The Desire of Ages_, “To My Father, and Your Father,” pp. 829–835;

_The Acts of the Apostles_, “The Gift of the Spirit,” pp. 47–56.