---
title:  The Three-in-One-God Works To Save Us
date:   08/10/2023
---

The Bible teaches us that Jesus is the most important part of God’s plan to save us. Jesus announced: “ ‘I am the way, the truth, and the life. The only way to the Father is through [because of] me’ ” (John 14:6, ERV). Jesus, the Son, also helps us understand how much the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit work together to save us.

Everything Jesus did was for us and came from His Father in heaven (read John 4:34; John 5:30; John 12:45). Remember, Jesus’ work to save us didn’t start when He came to this earth. God the Father chose Jesus as our Savior before Jesus made the earth (read Ephesians 1:4; 1 Peter 1:20). So, God made a plan to save us before He made this planet. After we sinned, God became part of human history to save us. “When the right time came” (Galatians 4:4, ERV), God showed us His love. He gave us His Son (John 3:16, 17). Jesus died on the cross and woke up from the dead. Then the Father sent the Holy Spirit to us (John 14:26; John 16:7). The Spirit shows us that sin is very terrible (John 16:8–11). Today, the Spirit continues God’s saving work on this earth (John 14:26; John 16:13, 14).

`Read John 20:21, 22. These verses teach us that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit work together to save us. They give us our work. Our work belongs to Them because it started with Them. What hope does this Bible truth give us as we share Jesus with other people?`

The words “Three-in-One-God” aren’t written anywhere in the Bible. But many verses in the Bible teach that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit work together to save us. After Jesus woke up from the dead, He showed Himself to His followers. Jesus promised them: “ ‘Remember that I will send you the one [Holy Spirit] my Father promised’ ” (Luke 24:49, ERV). In this one verse, we see the saving plan of the Three-in-One-God: the Father’s promise, the Son’s announcement to keep the promise, and the Holy Spirit’s coming (compare with Luke 3:16; Acts 1:4, 5, 8).

We learn from this verse that the work of saving humans belongs to the Three-in-One-God. God can’t fail. So, His work to save us won’t fail.

`Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are all part of the work to save humans. Why should this thought give you hope?`