---
title:  Making Followers For Jesus
date:   09/10/2023
---

`Read Matthew 28:16–20. In these verses, we read about Jesus’ final orders to His followers. Jesus talks to His followers about how to make new followers for Him. What does Jesus tell His followers to do?`

Part of Jesus’ final orders to His followers includes His Important Command (Matthew 28:18–20). Jesus commands His followers to travel to new places and make new followers for Him. Jesus commands His followers to teach people about their faith and to join with them in Christian fellowship (read also Mark 16:15, 16; Luke 24:44–49; John 20:21–23; Acts 1:8).

There are four basic parts to Jesus’ final orders. (1) Jesus commands His followers to go to Galilee to be with Him (Matthew 28:16, 17). (2) Jesus announces that God gave Him control over everything in heaven and on earth (Matthew 28:18). (3) Jesus commands His followers to do a special task: make new followers for Him (Matthew 28:19, 20). Finally, (4) Jesus promises to be with His followers until the end (Matthew 28:20).

Making new followers for Jesus is the most important part of His orders. This task is the most important part of our work for God, too. After Jesus announces that God gave Him control of everything in heaven and on earth, Jesus tells His followers, “ ‘So go and make disciples in all countries’ ” (Matthew 28:19, ICB). Do you see the word “So”? That word helps us understand that Jesus commands His followers because He controls everything now (Matthew 28:18). He is all-powerful because He died for our sins and woke up from the dead.

How do we make new followers for Jesus? What does this work include? Jesus tells us. He wants us to teach, baptize, and share His teachings with everyone on earth. Jesus wants us to make more followers. This task is our most important work. Matthew 28:16–20 ends with Jesus’ promise to be with His followers always.

The Important Command is for us, too. Every follower of Jesus today must join Him in His work to make new followers for Him. The Good News about Jesus is for everyone on earth, not only Christians.

`What are you doing now to make followers for Jesus? What more can you do?`