---
title:  The Good News
date:   10/10/2023
---

`In Revelation 14:6, 7, we read about the 1st Angel’s Message. The angel announces the “Good News that lasts [continues] forever” (Revelation 14:6, NLV). How does this Good News show us God’s work to save us?`

Revelation 14:6, 7 are the only verses in the Bible that join the words “lasts [continues]” and “Good News” together. The Good News is good because God gives us a message about God’s mercy to save us from sin. The Good News gets better: God offers this gift of pardon to everyone because of Jesus. Jesus came to this earth to show us God’s “loving-favor and truth” (John 1:14, NLV). Jesus did not sin. He died on the cross for our sins. He was our Substitute. He accepted our punishment (Isaiah 53:4, 5; 1 Peter 3:18). Jesus woke up from the dead. He went to heaven. The Father honored Him. Today, Jesus goes to the Father to get help for us in our fight against sin (Revelation 1:18; Acts 2:33; Hebrews 7:25). Soon, Jesus will keep His biggest promise: He will come back as the King of kings to this earth. Then, after 1,000 years, Jesus will put God’s kingdom on this earth (John 14:1–4; Acts 1:11; Revelation 21:1–4). All of these promises are parts of the Good News.

There will never be another Good News. False teachings come and go (Ephesians 4:14). But the Good News doesn’t change. God will reward the people who believe this message and obey it (read Deuteronomy 5:33; Romans 2:6).

The same command that Jesus gave to His first followers He gives to us today. We must make followers who are ready to see Jesus. Then these new followers will help other people get ready to see Jesus, too.

In Revelation 14:6, 7, the first angel announces “that God will judge the earth. God’s work as Judge helps us understand that the Second Coming is very near. This announcement is part of the everlasting Good News. So, the message about the Second Coming and that it will happen soon are important parts of the Good News.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, pages 227, 228, adapted.

`What is the connection between God’s work as Judge and the Good News that continues forever in the 1st Angel’s Message? Why is the Good News an important part of God’s work as Judge of the whole earth?`