---
title:  God’s People Work With Him To Save Sinners
date:   11/10/2023
---

God always had followers who showed His love to other people. God’s people obeyed Him and accepted His plan for their lives. God continues to choose people today. God’s chosen people today accept His gift of mercy. All of God’s people, in the past and now, help Him save sinners.

`What was God’s first plan for His people in the Old Testament? Read Genesis 12:1–3 and Deuteronomy 7:6, 11, 12 for the answer.`

God’s special agreement with Abraham and his future children was part of God’s plan to save sinners. God chose Abraham and his future children, the Israelites, to be His helpers in this important work. God wanted to bless Israel and then bless other people groups because of Israel. So, God chose Israel to be in a special relationship with Him. The relationship between God and Israel was part of God’s special agreement. Israel agreed to have faith in God and obey Him (Genesis 22:16–18; Exodus 19:5, 6; Deuteronomy 28:1, 2; and 2 Chronicles 7:14). God also made the Israelites His witnesses. God hoped that other people would want to serve Him, too, when they saw the blessings He gave Israel. This work was all part of God’s plan to save humans.

In the New Testament, God’s work continues. Jesus adds something new to God’s saving plan: the church (read Matthew 28:18–20; Acts 1:8). Jesus’ followers go to every place on earth. How is this work different from the work that Israel did in the Old Testament? In Old Testament times, God brought people from different countries to Israel to learn about Him. But in New Testament times, God’s followers go everywhere on earth to share the Good News. God’s work to save sinners didn’t start with the church. God started the church because He has work to do on the earth. God uses His church to do this work.

What is the church’s work? The same work that Jesus does. Jesus says, “ ‘The Son of Man came to find lost people and save them’ ” (Luke 19:10, ERV). No one in the church can save anyone. But we can, and must, lead other people to the only One who can save. That Person is Jesus.

“What is the church’s work? To save sinners. The church must show God’s love to people and win them to Jesus with love.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 3, page 381, adapted.