---
title:  How Big Is God’s Plan To Save Us?
date:   12/10/2023
---

`How big is His plan to save us? Read Revelation 7:9, 10 for the answer.`

This week, we studied two important sets of verses: Matthew 28:16–20 and Revelation 14:6, 7. These verses help us understand God’s plan to save sinners. These verses also teach us two things: (1) Jesus commands us to make new followers for Him, and (2) the Good News is an important part of God’s saving plan. These verses teach us where God’s plan will happen: “ ‘Go and make disciples in all countries’ ” (Matthew 28:19, ICB), and share the Good News with “the people who live on the earth. The good news is for every country, tribe [family group], language, and nation [race group]” (Revelation 14:6, NIrV).

So, the Good News about Jesus is for all people everywhere. God plans for the Good News to join all people in fellowship. If we accept Jesus’ teachings, He will empty our hearts of hate, dislike, pride, jealousy, and all other bad feelings that separate us from each other. Then God’s Spirit will join our hearts together in Christian love.

Jesus commanded His followers and us, “ ‘You will tell about Me’ ” (Acts 1:8, NLV). Jesus wants us to be His witnesses. But where? Jesus gives us the answer:

Area 1: “in Jerusalem” (Acts 1:8, ERV). At the time, Jesus’ followers were near Jerusalem. So, Jesus wanted them to start by sharing their experience with the people near them. God’s work to save other people starts in our homes, with our families, neighbors, and friends.

Area 2: “in the rest of Judea, in Samaria” (Acts 1:8, ERV). We must reach out to the people who speak the same language we do, but who don’t share our faith. This group of people includes the people in our own cities or country.

Area 3: “in every part of the world [earth]” (Acts 1:8, ERV). God sends us to share the Good News with people from all places, countries, people groups, and languages.

`Task #1: Pray every day this week for your community. God placed you there for a reason.`

`Task #2: Who are the people who live near you? What is their religion? What languages do they speak? Are they young, old, poor, or rich? Ask God to show you how you may show His love to them.`