---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   13/10/2023
---

“Jesus said, ‘You are the light that shines for the world [everyone on earth] to see’ [Matthew 5:14, ERV]. The Savior’s words help us understand that He gave His followers a worldwide job. God wants us to be the same as the sun in our work for Him. The sun’s rays shine to the farthest parts of the earth. In the same way, God wants His church to share the Good News about Jesus with every person on the earth. When the church does this work, then the Good News will shine the same as light on the minds of people who are dead in sin and who believe lies. Church members must pick up their crosses. They must do the work God gave them to do. They must work as Jesus did to save people. Then the Good News will go fast to everyone on the earth. . . .

“God opens areas in countries where we can do His work. Angels work together with God’s people. God joins His strength to our human effort. . . . Some people have answered God’s command to work. Let every holy heart now answer. Let everyone announce the life-giving message. Men and women must empty their hearts of all pride. They must accept with faith the work God gave them to do. Then God will work with these men and women to help many people to accept Bible truth. God will bless their efforts and give them wonderful blessings.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, November 14, 1912, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Do people in your community trust your church or know about it? Can they depend on you as Christians to show them Jesus and to help them when they are in need? What can you do to build trust for your church in your community?`

`As Christians, why is the Good News about Jesus the most important part of our message and our work? Can we give hope to anyone, anywhere, without the Good News? Explain your answer.`