---
title:  God’s Closing Argument
date:  04/05/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 27:15—28:10**

**God’s Closing Argument**

At the end of a court trial, after both sides have made long deliberations, each side gets to present closing arguments. It’s the final opportunity for the lawyers to present their case and persuade the judge or jury to rule in their client’s favor. They review the evidence presented, stress key points that support their case, and highlight weaknesses or inconsistencies on the opposing side. The goal is to leave a lasting, often dramatic impression on the judge or jury.

God technically does not need to defend Himself; He is God. Because of His position as Creator and Almighty, He is truth. What He says literally defines reality, yet He chose to allow His created beings to question Him. This freedom of choice is the only way true love is possible—forced love is never true.

Unfortunately, Lucifer began a rather successful smear campaign against God’s character, first winning a third of heaven’s angels to his side (Rev. 12:4) and later introducing more falsehoods to humanity. God appeared to have three clear options when the controversy first began:

Immediately destroy all rebels. Eradicate all created beings and restart the universe, leaving no records of prior events. Let sin run its course while revealing His character so everyone can decide which side they want to stand on.

The claims against God’s integrity and love had to be addressed so that sin would never rise again—for the entire eternal future. For this reason, God chose the third option. This slow, careful method of exonerating Himself is crucial for love-based faithfulness to be the modus operandi of all creation. By allowing sin to take its course, all would see its horrific fruit. Through His salvific engagement in human history, God also indisputably provided the most powerful closing argument ever made: the cross. Jesus’ death definitively addressed all lies about God’s integrity and character and blew them out of the water. For all time and for all to see, the cross established the fact that God is, and always will be, love.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 27:15—28:10 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out Matthew 27:45–54. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._