---
title:  A Murderer from the Beginning
date:  05/05/2024
---

#### inGest

Though political candidates may claim to stand for certain values on the campaign trail, only time will reveal their true intentions. At first, the messaging might be about helping and caring for people and the general betterment of society. However, more often than not, once candidates have gained popularity or been elected to certain positions of power, their opinions and attitudes change or even reverse. One is left to wonder if their original positions were ever the honest ones.

Scripture tells us that Lucifer desired to “be like the Most High” (Isa. 14:14); that he “shook kingdoms” (Isa. 14:16); that “by the abundance of [his] trading,” which can be interpreted as slander, he “became filled with violence within” (Ezek. 28:16). The Bible indicates that Lucifer started with smearing God’s name and suggesting that he would make a better ruler than God. At first, his intentions may have even come across as pure and concerned for the wellbeing of all created beings. After all, nobody had ever sinned before, so why would they suspect any evil objectives?

Despite how relatively mild his initial acts of rebellion may have appeared, the evil of Satan’s character was unmasked by the murder of Jesus on the cross (Acts 5:30). It was Satan who put it into the heart of Judas to betray Jesus into the hands of those that were looking for a way to kill Him (Luke 22:3). In his persecution of God’s people throughout the ages and his repeated attempts to murder the Son of God (e.g., Matt. 2:16–18; 4:6; 27:15–26; Luke 4:16–30; John 5:1–18), his intentions and identity as the original killer became crystal clear. “He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own resources, for he is a liar and the father of it” (John 8:44).

Satan utilized Judas, the religious leaders, and the Roman government to realize his murderous plot, but while he may have influenced the method of execution, Jesus did not die because of the nails! Jesus said, “I lay down My life that I may take it again. No one takes it from Me, but I lay it down of Myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again” (John 10:17, 18). He died voluntarily, laying down His life, crushed by the weight of the sins of all humanity (see Isa. 53). The cross exposed Satan’s deep hatred for God.

It’s easy to condemn all who were complicit in the death of Christ, the Son of God, but how often do we do the same? Every time we sin, we essentially crucify again the Son of God (Heb. 6:6). Incredibly, even then, in His abundant grace, Jesus offers us His forgiveness: “Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do” (Luke 23:34).

Journal:

`Why is it so important to know that Jesus was not killed by Satan, but freely offered up His life?`

`How does knowing that sinning is spiritually partaking in Satan’s murder plot change how you think about God’s grace?`