---
title:  Pardon and Power
date:  06/05/2024
---

#### inTerpret

The gospel records Jesus’ life, death, and resurrection. Nearly everyone has heard the oft-repeated truth of John 3:16—that God loved us so much that He paid the price of our sins, all so we can have eternal life. It’s a beautiful statement, and it’s worth taking a deeper dive into the underlying dynamics at play within the great controversy. Satan opposes that act of Divine love; he stands as “the accuser of our brethren” (Rev. 12:10) and claims that sinners have no right to be saved. With this in mind, I encourage you to think through the next few paragraphs slowly and prayerfully.

Choosing sin leaves us condemned to eternal death, because the choice to sin is the choice to disconnect from God, the Source of all life. It’s literally choosing to die. At its core, sin is pride and selfishness, two attitudes directly opposed to the law of life and selfless love. God’s law provides the only way for the universe to exist in eternal peace, and true freedom. His law is the only possible way for life to thrive. Anything that contradicts it leads to death. If the law were not serious or important, Christ’s death would not have been necessary.

In order to offer sinners a second chance at faithfulness and eternal life, God had to create a way to uphold the law of love and justice while also pardoning sin and healing the sinner. To put it simply, He had to find a way to enforce the law while also sparing us from the consequence of breaking it. Jesus’ life and death accomplished all of that, and as a result, all of Satan’s accusations against believers can be lawfully dismissed—hallelujah!

As the Lawgiver, when Jesus experienced death in the place of every sinner who will ever exist, He took upon Himself the result of lawbreaking. He died because of the crushing awareness of all sins ever committed, the guilty verdict they brought, and the punishment for those sins, which was poured out on Him in full. He thereby upheld justice and proved the eternal validity of the law. Through this transfer of punishment from all sinners to Himself, Christ can legally offer pardon—justification—to all who believe and trust that His death accomplished all this. In His resurrection, Jesus sealed the deal that guarantees this salvation for all who believe. Satan is a defeated foe; Christ’s victory is yours!

As one of us, Jesus lived and exemplified the principles of a saving faith: complete reliance on God. One of Satan’s primary claims was that God is too demanding, that His laws are too difficult to follow, but Jesus proved that Adam and Eve could have resisted temptation and lived without sinning. Jesus’ life of perfect obedience is credited to every sinner who comes by faith. Our record of sin and rebellion is covered with His record of righteousness. He also showed humanity that now that we’re pardoned, if we trust in God’s grace, we can follow Jesus and relearn how to be faithful. Jesus offers power to live a life of faithfulness through full reliance on Him.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Knowing that Jesus’ death provides you with His pardon and power, how do you choose to live today and every day?`