---
title:  What Love is This?
date:  08/05/2024
---

#### inVite

There are very few heartbreaks worse than losing a loved one to sickness or other tragedy. It’s difficult to measure or exaggerate the pain that comes from such a separation and loss. Even so, the combined heartbreaks of all humanity are like a tiny teardrop compared to the ocean of deep sorrow God felt during Christ’s crucifixion and death.

Jesus experienced extreme levels of pain and suffering on the cross. He had to endure one of the most horrific methods of execution. The cruelest form of crucifixion involved nails piercing the wrists and ankles, which inflicts severe nerve damage and causes relentless torment. The suspended body endures strained muscles, dislocated joints, and severe cramps. Breathing becomes difficult and each gasp for air exacerbates the pain. Suffering is prolonged by exposure to the elements, dehydration, blood loss, and shock, culminating in a slow, agonizing death.

However, all the physical suffering was only a faint shadow compared to the intense mental anguish that overwhelmed Christ. In His complete moral purity, having never committed any sin, He felt every sin ever committed as if He were the perpetrator. He carried the full weight of the shame and despair from every act of selfishness, abuse, violence, sadism, murder, horror, and evil ever committed. He felt its guilt to the core. He drank the bitter cup of iniquity to its very last drop.

In that moment of intense physical, mental, and moral torment, He couldn’t even turn to His divine Companions, who had been His closest Confidants for eternity past. The Father and Holy Spirit had to separate from Jesus. Enshrouded by darkness, Jesus felt abandoned and alone. At the height of this internal struggle Jesus cried out, “My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?” (Matt. 27:46). He heard no assuring voice in response. Heaven was silent. Instead of encouraging Him, the surrounding onlookers mocked Him. Jesus was being crushed by the punishment for sin, the consequences of humanity’s choosing disobedience. At that point, He could no longer see the hope of a resurrection. Any lingering hope He may have had was by faith alone, not by sight.

In an act of ultimate self-sacrifice, Jesus, who had the power to step off the cross at any moment, chose to remain for you—even if it meant prolonged suffering and eternal death. Jesus literally and spiritually died of a broken heart, and He did it because He loves you. He did it so you don’t have to experience any of the suffering He went through. He did it for just the possibility of a single person believing in His salvation.

What love is this? No words could ever describe it. This is God’s love for you. In the light of the cross, sin loses its power, pride melts like wax, and temptations become offensive. All things are seen as they truly are, and we realize how much we are loved, how much we need Christ, how precious, worthy, and lovely He truly is. His matchless charms woo us, draw us to Him, and in total surrender we fall to our knees in worship, repentance, and praise, exclaiming, “Truly this [is] the Son of God!” (Matt. 27:54). He is your personal Savior, and with resurrection power He declares victory over your slavery to sin: “It is finished!” (John 19:30).

Journal:

`Meditate on Matthew 27:15—28:10 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How does Jesus’ death impact the way you think of yourself and of others?`

`How do you see Jesus differently in light of this week’s lesson?`