---
title: 'Little Times Of Trouble'
date: 01/06/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Matthew 7:5; Ephesians 1:7; Ephesians 4:26, 27; 1 John 4:7, 8; Matthew 7:12.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘When you are angry, don’t [do not] let that anger make you sin,’ [Psalm 4:4] and don’t stay angry all day” (Ephesians 4:26, ERV).

**ALL FAMILIES** have problems. Problems are part of our lives because of sin. Some problems have easy answers. Here are some examples: Whose turn is it to take out the trash? Did your teenage daughter really finish her homework? Did your son do all his chores around the house? You can solve these problems easily, right? They do not change your family’s lives very much. But other problems can destroy peace in the family. What about the mother who is jealous of her son’s wife? The mother tries to break up her son’s marriage. She almost destroys his wife’s health doing it too! Or what about the father who hits his kids? Or the son who turns away from God and lives in sin? Or the daughter who cannot quit a bad habit?

The Bible tells us we should love each other (John 13:34; Romans 12:10). We should live in peace (Romans 15:5; Hebrews 12:14). We should be patient, kind, and caring (1 Corinthians 13:4). We should put our loved ones first (Philippians 2:3). We should help each other (Ephesians 4:2). Of course, it is much easier to say we should do these things than it is to do them. But good behavior helps us during times of trouble in the family. This week, we will look at some ways we can solve problems in the family.