src/en/2019-02-er/10/02.md, before:

---
title: 'Fights And Disagreements'
date: 02/06/2019
---

`Read Matthew 7:5 and Proverbs 19:11. What two important rules do these verses teach us? How can these rules help us to not argue or fight with other people?`

Proverbs gives us wise advice: “The start of an argument is like [the same as] a small leak in a dam. Stop it before a big fight breaks out” (Proverbs 17:14, ERV). It can be hard for us to stop a fight after it starts. Romans 14:19 tells us that we can do two things to stop fights. (1) We can do our best to live a peaceful life. (2) We can try to do things that bring out the best in other people. We should follow these rules in our lives if we want to live in peace with other people. But it is more important that we obey these rules in our families. 

What else can you do to stop a fight? Ask yourself this question: Am I wrong? If you are wrong, then say it. Honesty helps soften the heart of the person who is mad at you. Step back from the argument and ask yourself: Is this fight worth my time? Proverbs also says: “A wise person is patient. He will be honored if he ignores a wrong done against him” (Proverbs 19:11, ICB). Ask yourself, “How will this fight change my life three days from now?” Or a better question to ask is, “What change will this fight make in five or ten years?” How many marriages have had hard times in the past because of problems that now seem so small and silly?

Do not let fights continue for a long time. Here is another helpful thing you can do: tell the person you are upset with what the problem is. Be clear about it. Stay on the subject. Do not say any angry words. Also, do not bring up problems from the past. Start out by telling your friend, coworker, child, husband, or wife that you care deeply about him or her. Then you can start to talk about the problem. Be careful not to use the word “but.” The word “but” erases everything good that you said. Share your feelings. Then listen to what the other person has to say. Take time to think about his or her words. Then together, you will be ready to solve the problem in the best way for everyone (Philippians 2:4, 5).

`Think about a fight you had in the past that you think is silly now. What did you learn from this experience? How can it help you to stop the same thing from happening again?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/10/02.md, after:

---
title: 'Fights And Disagreements'
date: 02/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Matthew 7:5 and Proverbs 19:11. What two important rules do these verses teach us? How can these rules help us to not argue or fight with other people?`

Proverbs gives us wise advice: “The start of an argument is like [the same as] a small leak in a dam. Stop it before a big fight breaks out” (Proverbs 17:14, ERV). It can be hard for us to stop a fight after it starts. Romans 14:19 tells us that we can do two things to stop fights. (1) We can do our best to live a peaceful life. (2) We can try to do things that bring out the best in other people. We should follow these rules in our lives if we want to live in peace with other people. But it is more important that we obey these rules in our families. 

What else can you do to stop a fight? Ask yourself this question: Am I wrong? If you are wrong, then say it. Honesty helps soften the heart of the person who is mad at you. Step back from the argument and ask yourself: Is this fight worth my time? Proverbs also says: “A wise person is patient. He will be honored if he ignores a wrong done against him” (Proverbs 19:11, ICB). Ask yourself, “How will this fight change my life three days from now?” Or a better question to ask is, “What change will this fight make in five or ten years?” How many marriages have had hard times in the past because of problems that now seem so small and silly?

Do not let fights continue for a long time. Here is another helpful thing you can do: tell the person you are upset with what the problem is. Be clear about it. Stay on the subject. Do not say any angry words. Also, do not bring up problems from the past. Start out by telling your friend, coworker, child, husband, or wife that you care deeply about him or her. Then you can start to talk about the problem. Be careful not to use the word “but.” The word “but” erases everything good that you said. Share your feelings. Then listen to what the other person has to say. Take time to think about his or her words. Then together, you will be ready to solve the problem in the best way for everyone (Philippians 2:4, 5).

`Think about a fight you had in the past that you think is silly now. What did you learn from this experience? How can it help you to stop the same thing from happening again?`
