---
title: 'Some Important Rules For Marriage'
date: 03/06/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Marriage and the Sabbath are gifts from God. He gave them to us in Eden. As Seventh-day Adventists, we know what Satan did, and continues to do, to try to destroy the Sabbath and marriage. So, we also know that the best marriages, at times, are going to have problems. 

That is why it is important for us to look at some Bible rules. These rules can help couples solve problems in their marriages.

`Read Ephesians 1:7. What important rule do you learn from this verse? Why must this rule be part of a good marriage?`

We must learn to forgive each other. We must forgive our husbands and wives before they fully understand how much they hurt us. It is easy to forgive someone who did something to earn our forgiveness. But is that true forgiveness? No. True forgiveness means we forgive people who did not do anything to earn our forgiveness. That is how God forgives us in Jesus. So, we must forgive others as God forgives us. If we do not, our marriages will feel the same as a very bad dream we have every night.

`Read Romans 3:23. What important rule does this verse teach us?`

You must accept some bad news: you are married to a sinner. Get used to it. His or her heart, mind, body, and spirit has been hurt by sin. So, accept your loved one’s weaknesses and mistakes. You may have to live with his or her weaknesses. But you do not have to think about their weak side all the time, day and night. If you do, these thoughts will bring you much pain and suffering. A holy and perfect God accepts us just as we are. You are in no way holy and perfect. So, you must accept your husband or wife the same way that God in Jesus accepts you.

`Read Philippians 2:4–8. What important rule do these verses teach us? How can this rule help us in our marriages? How can it help us in our friendships with other people too?`