---
title:  "ANGER AND ARGUMENTS"
date:   04/06/2019
---

We all have been angry at someone in our lives. It does not feel very good, right? But it feels worse when the person we are mad at is a member of our own family. What happens when we refuse to forgive him or her? We feel bad. It can feel the same as drinking poison. Anger makes us feel the same way too. Anger also can cause deep pain and suffering in our homes and in our families.

`Read Ephesians 4:26, 27 and Ecclesiastes 7:9. These verses teach us that anger is a strong feeling. At the same time, anger can become a sin. So, when is anger a sin? And when is anger not a sin? What is the difference?`

What does James say in James 1:19, 20? Why should we follow this important rule at all times? How can it help us solve problems with family members who make us mad?

What should you do when you are angry about something? Do not let your anger float as a dark cloud above your life. Turn your anger into something good. Pray for the people who hurt you and are mean to you. Forgive them. Be a blessing to their lives. It will not be easy at first. You can make the decision to be kind and forgiving. Then stick to your decision. God will take care of the rest.

Sometimes, as adults, we feel angry because our parents were not kind to us when we were kids. Angry people come from angry families. Children learn how to behave from their families. They continue this same behavior when they grow up. They pass this behavior on to their kids. At times, people feel angry because no one in life gave them what they needed most. In the example of Cain, his anger came because he was jealous of Abel, his brother. Cain’s jealousy made him so angry. It caused him to kill Abel.

Maybe you have a very good reason to feel angry. Do not use your reason as an excuse to stay mad. Do not act as if you are not angry. Do not try to show why you are right and why the other person is wrong. Ask God to help you to turn your anger into something good. Paul gives us good advice: “Do not let evil defeat [beat; overcome] you. Defeat evil by doing good” (Romans 12:21, ICB).

`How can God help us control our anger?`