---
title: 'Fights Insults Power And Control'
date: 05/06/2019
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Sometimes we cannot solve our problems and disagreements with other people. Then our anger can turn into something very dangerous. Anger can cause us to hurt other people and insult them in awful ways. Here are a few ways that people can insult and hurt other people. They can yell or scream at them. They can say mean words. They can touch someone’s body in the wrong way. They can force someone to have sex. They can hit or slap a person. This bad behavior has a name: abuse. Abuse in any shape or form is against the law of God’s kingdom: love.

`What important rules do you learn in 1 John 4:7, 8 and Colossians 3:19? What do these rules teach us that we must do to help our marriages and friendships stay healthy?`

“Husbands, love your wives. Do not hold hard feelings against them” (Colossians 3:19, NLV). Do you see the word “hard”? In Greek, the word “hard” means “being mad at someone.” It also means “causing someone to feel pain all the time” and “showing someone you hate him or her.” Paul is very clear: we must love our husbands and wives. We must not hurt them with our words or actions. Abuse is never right behavior for a Christian. But love is. Paul says that love is patient and kind. Love does not get jealous. Love does not brag. Love is not filled with pride. Love is not rude. It does not put itself first. A loving person does not get mad fast. He or she does not remember the wrong things other people do. A loving person does not feel happy when bad things happen. No, a loving person feels joy when truth wins. Love always causes us to protect others. Love fills us with trust and hope. Love never gives up. Love is fully different from abuse (read 1 Corinthians 13:4–8). 

In a healthy marriage, both partners feel safe and protected. They control their anger in healthy ways too. But people who get slapped or yelled at often think they did something to earn this abuse. Not true! People who hurt other people want to control the ones they hurt. They make you feel that it is your fault that they hurt you. But these attackers are responsible for their choices and bad behavior. The good news is that the Bible offers comfort to people who have been hurt.