src/en/2019-02-er/10/06.md, before:

---
title: 'Forgiveness And Peace'
date: 06/06/2019
---

“ ‘Do for other people the same things you want them to do for you. This is the meaning of the law of Moses and the teaching of the prophets [special messengers from God]’ ” (Matthew 7:12, ICB). In what ways do you need to show this rule in your life? How can you do that? 

Paul says: “Try to live in peace with everyone. And try to keep your lives free from sin. Anyone whose life is not holy will never see the Lord” (Hebrews 12:14, ERV). We may do everything we can to make peace with someone. But what if this person will not listen to us or change? What do we do then? We must forgive this person anyway. 

Forgiveness is an important part of helping you solve your disagreements. What happens when someone sins against you? Satan puts a wall between that person and you. This wall stops you from loving the person who hurt you. Forgiveness is a choice you make that helps you pull down that wall.

“God does not forgive us because we forgive other people. God forgives us when we forgive them. All forgiveness starts with God’s love. We cannot earn this love. Our behavior shows other people the love that is in our hearts. ‘ “You will be judged in the same way that you judge others [people]. And the forgiveness you give to others will be given to you.” ’ Matthew 7:2 [, ICB].”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 251, adapted. 

At the same time, when we make a mistake, we must do everything we can to heal the broken connection between us and another person. We will need to tell him or her we are sorry. Then we must ask for his or her forgiveness. That is what Jesus told us to do: “ ‘Suppose [what if] you are offering your gift at the altar. And you remember that your brother or sister has something against you. Leave your gift in front of the altar. First go and make peace with them. Then come back and offer your gift’ ” (Matthew 5:23, 24, NIrV). It is nice when the person who hurt us says, “I am sorry,” and asks for our forgiveness. It also is nice when we do the same thing for other people.

`Think about the wrong things you did against God and other people. You know you need them to forgive you. How does that thought help you to forgive other people?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/10/06.md, after:

---
title: 'Forgiveness And Peace'
date: 06/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“ ‘Do for other people the same things you want them to do for you. This is the meaning of the law of Moses and the teaching of the prophets [special messengers from God]’ ” (Matthew 7:12, ICB). In what ways do you need to show this rule in your life? How can you do that? 

Paul says: “Try to live in peace with everyone. And try to keep your lives free from sin. Anyone whose life is not holy will never see the Lord” (Hebrews 12:14, ERV). We may do everything we can to make peace with someone. But what if this person will not listen to us or change? What do we do then? We must forgive this person anyway. 

Forgiveness is an important part of helping you solve your disagreements. What happens when someone sins against you? Satan puts a wall between that person and you. This wall stops you from loving the person who hurt you. Forgiveness is a choice you make that helps you pull down that wall.

“God does not forgive us because we forgive other people. God forgives us when we forgive them. All forgiveness starts with God’s love. We cannot earn this love. Our behavior shows other people the love that is in our hearts. ‘ “You will be judged in the same way that you judge others [people]. And the forgiveness you give to others will be given to you.” ’ Matthew 7:2 [, ICB].”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, page 251, adapted. 

At the same time, when we make a mistake, we must do everything we can to heal the broken connection between us and another person. We will need to tell him or her we are sorry. Then we must ask for his or her forgiveness. That is what Jesus told us to do: “ ‘Suppose [what if] you are offering your gift at the altar. And you remember that your brother or sister has something against you. Leave your gift in front of the altar. First go and make peace with them. Then come back and offer your gift’ ” (Matthew 5:23, 24, NIrV). It is nice when the person who hurt us says, “I am sorry,” and asks for our forgiveness. It also is nice when we do the same thing for other people.

`Think about the wrong things you did against God and other people. You know you need them to forgive you. How does that thought help you to forgive other people?`
