src/en/2019-02-er/10/07.md, before:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 07/06/2019
---

“Many times parents do not agree about how to raise their children. The father does not spend much time with his kids. He does not know how they behave. He does not understand their weaknesses. The father corrects his children when he is angry. He does not control his temper. The children see this weakness in their father. So, when he punishes them, it does not correct their evil behavior. It only makes the children angry. Then they turn against doing what is right. Sometimes the mother punishes the children when they are bad. Other times, she does not punish their bad behavior at all. The children never know what to expect. So, what do the children do? They try to see how much sin they can get away with doing and not be punished. In this way, the parents plant seeds of evil in the children’s heart. These seeds grow into plants full of rotten fruit.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, pages 314, 315, adapted. 

“Our homes should be centers of love. We should welcome peace, love, and joy into our homes every day. Then these precious gifts will live in the hearts of all our family members. Love is a plant. We must care for it every day. Or it will die. In the same way, we must obey every Bible truth so that it will live inside us. Satan plants evil weeds in our hearts. These weeds are bad thoughts and feelings. They make us feel jealous, impatient, selfish, and greedy. They make us think evil thoughts about people and say evil things about them. They make us think we are something special when we are not. We must pull these weeds out of our hearts. If we let them stay, they will grow fruit. This fruit will be rotten. It will spoil our spirits. Too many people grow these weeds. They are poison. These plants kill the precious fruits of love. They make our spirits ugly and dirty!”—Pages 195, 196, adapted.

**Discussion question**

`1. “Jesus, our high priest [religious leader], is able to understand our weaknesses. When Jesus lived on earth, he was tempted [tested; felt the desire to do wrong] in every way. He was tempted in the same ways we are tempted, but he never sinned” (Hebrews 4:15, ERV). Jesus came to us and put Himself in our place so that He could understand us better. We should do the same thing with our husbands or wives. Try to look at things from your partner’s view. How does he or she feel about your problems? Why does he or she feel this way? When you see things from his or her eyes, you can solve hard problems more easily. How else can this important rule help you with other problems in your life?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/10/07.md, after:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 07/06/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“Many times parents do not agree about how to raise their children. The father does not spend much time with his kids. He does not know how they behave. He does not understand their weaknesses. The father corrects his children when he is angry. He does not control his temper. The children see this weakness in their father. So, when he punishes them, it does not correct their evil behavior. It only makes the children angry. Then they turn against doing what is right. Sometimes the mother punishes the children when they are bad. Other times, she does not punish their bad behavior at all. The children never know what to expect. So, what do the children do? They try to see how much sin they can get away with doing and not be punished. In this way, the parents plant seeds of evil in the children’s heart. These seeds grow into plants full of rotten fruit.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, pages 314, 315, adapted. 

“Our homes should be centers of love. We should welcome peace, love, and joy into our homes every day. Then these precious gifts will live in the hearts of all our family members. Love is a plant. We must care for it every day. Or it will die. In the same way, we must obey every Bible truth so that it will live inside us. Satan plants evil weeds in our hearts. These weeds are bad thoughts and feelings. They make us feel jealous, impatient, selfish, and greedy. They make us think evil thoughts about people and say evil things about them. They make us think we are something special when we are not. We must pull these weeds out of our hearts. If we let them stay, they will grow fruit. This fruit will be rotten. It will spoil our spirits. Too many people grow these weeds. They are poison. These plants kill the precious fruits of love. They make our spirits ugly and dirty!”—Pages 195, 196, adapted.

**Discussion question**

`1. “Jesus, our high priest [religious leader], is able to understand our weaknesses. When Jesus lived on earth, he was tempted [tested; felt the desire to do wrong] in every way. He was tempted in the same ways we are tempted, but he never sinned” (Hebrews 4:15, ERV). Jesus came to us and put Himself in our place so that He could understand us better. We should do the same thing with our husbands or wives. Try to look at things from your partner’s view. How does he or she feel about your problems? Why does he or she feel this way? When you see things from his or her eyes, you can solve hard problems more easily. How else can this important rule help you with other problems in your life?`
