---
title:  Power On
date:  11/07/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Luke 11:1–13 (1–4)

Power On

The key verse for this entire quarter is the Great Commission found in Matthew 28. We have already looked at making disciples in the previous weeks. But before that “make disciples” verb comes up, Jesus says, “All authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth” (v. 18). The word for authority in Greek is exousia, which denotes power to act, jurisdiction, liberty, right, and domain. Throughout the four Gospels, Jesus used this exousia to cast out demons (Matt. 10:1; Mark 3:15), to heal the sick (Matt. 9:8; Luke 5:24), and to teach (Matt. 7:29; Mark 1:27). It was this same authority that His enemies questioned (Matt. 21:23–27; Mark 11:28–33; Luke 20:1–8).

This exousia is the same power that Christ gives to humanity to become the children of God. In other words, the reason we can make disciples is that Jesus has been given authority to use His power to help us. The power of discipleship does not come from programs or even spiritual people and mentors. It comes from Christ, who continues to cast out evil from our lives, heal our diseases, and teaches us to live as He did on this earth.

Though people are called to make disciples, the power of discipleship is from God. In the next three weeks, we will look at the three means by which the power of God is manifested in discipleship: prayer, Bible study, and witnessing for Christ.

#### inScribe

Write out Luke 11:1–13 from the translation of your choice. If you are pressed for time, you may write out Luke 11: 1–4. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``