---
title:  Talking with God in Prayer
date:   02/05/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Daniel 6

Imagine if you rarely spoke to your best friend or your spouse. Very soon the relationship would break down. In the same way, prayer is an essential part of having a close relationship with God. It’s a crucial devotional habit, one that each of us needs and can strengthen. If we don’t pray often and continually, we will wander from the Lord sooner or later.

When something goes wrong in our lives, most of us call a close friend to talk about it. When we have good news, we find someone to share it with. We can do the same with God. “Prayer is the opening of the heart to God as to a friend.”<sup>1</sup> God wants us to come to Him with our joys, sorrows, desires, and concerns. On our best days and our worst days, God waits for us to turn to Him in prayer.

We can talk to God in prayer at any time, in any place. Whether we’re driving a car, sitting in an office, working outside, or shopping in a market, we can whisper a prayer to God in the quietness of our minds. God hears our thoughts. There is nowhere on earth that God doesn’t see or hear us (Ps. 139:7–12); He always hears the cries of our hearts, no matter where we are (Lam. 3:55–57). The Bible invites us to “pray without ceasing” (1 Thess. 5:17), implying constancy (Col. 4:2) and perseverance (Rom. 12:12). Today, wherever you are, turn your thoughts to God and talk to Him as your Friend. You can begin right now.

The Bible shares amazing examples of God hearing unspoken prayers. God heard Eliezer when he silently prayed for discernment at the public well in the city of Nahor (Gen. 24:10–14). Right at the busy intersection of town, Eliezer had a secret conversation with God. The sorrowful Hannah also offered a quiet prayer at the tabernacle when Eli saw her lips moving but heard no sound (1 Sam. 1:12, 13). God heard and answered her prayer. God also heard Nehemiah’s quick prayer for help when he was being questioned by King Artaxerxes (Neh. 2:4). The God of the Bible can hear the silent, unspoken prayers of the heart.

At the same time, there’s something to be said for praying out loud instead of just in our minds. When we pray silently, we might become distracted or not even finish our train of thought or sentence, and it can be harder to remain focused. But when we pray aloud, whether in a whisper or in our usual tone, it’s a subliminal reminder to ourselves that God is real, that He’s listening, and that we have something specific to talk about with Him.

The audible prayers that Jesus offered made a profound impact on the disciples. Imagine hearing Jesus pray! What would that look and sound like? One thing is certain: hearing Jesus pray made the disciples want what He had. After hearing Him pray, one of the disciples asked Jesus if He could teach them to pray like that (Luke 11:1). Prayer was not just Jesus’ opportunity to speak to His Father; it was His opportunity to listen to His Father and receive guidance from above. Jesus depended on His prayer connection to heaven: “I can of Myself do nothing. As I hear, I judge; and My judgment is righteous, because I do not seek My own will but the will of the Father who sent Me” (John 5:30).

Whether we’re quiet or loud, prayer is a conversation with God. Through prayer we pour out our souls to God, telling Him about the big and little things in our lives. As we come to God in prayer, we gain access to the throne room of the universe. All are invited! No one is turned away. God never loses or forgets our prayers.

This week, we’ll explore practical insights for how to have a closer and more meaningful relationship with God through prayer.

### inScribe

`Write out Daniel 6:10–13 from the translation of your choice and outline or mind map the whole chapter. What can we learn from Daniel’s example of prayer?`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ (1892), 93.