---
title:  Faithful Daniel
date:   03/05/2026
---

### inGest

Daniel is one of the great heroes of the Bible. His courage and faithfulness in a hostile environment are inspiring. Despite tremendous pressure to adopt Babylonian customs, “Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king’s delicacies” (Dan. 1:8). Daniel was a diligent student and had a discerning mind. “God gave… knowledge and skill in all literature and wisdom; and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams” (Dan. 1:17). The Bible describes Daniel as wise (Dan. 1:20; 2:14, 21, 23, 48) because the Spirit of God was in him (Dan. 4:9, 18; 5:14; 6:3) and he was greatly beloved by heaven (Dan. 9:23; 10:11). These are some descriptors of a man who had a strong, abiding connection with God.

In Daniel 2 King Nebuchadnezzar issued a death decree to all the wise men in Babylon because they failed to reveal and interpret his dream. With their lives suddenly threatened, Daniel and his friends sought God’s mercy concerning the dream and its meaning (Dan. 2:18). God answered their prayers by giving Daniel the same dream He had given Nebuchadnezzar. When Daniel awoke in the morning, he praised God with an inspiring prayer of thanksgiving (Dan. 2:20–23). His prayer revealed a humble attitude, a calm trust, and a living faith. He acknowledged God’s sovereign power over all. He gave God credit for being the source of all wisdom and knowledge.

As the years passed and the empire traded hands, Daniel remained a royal advisor and was described as distinguished “because an excellent spirit was in him; and the king gave thought to setting him over the whole realm” (Dan. 6:3). “He was faithful; nor was there any error or fault found in him” (Dan. 6:4). Despite fierce jealousy and evil plotting from his peers, Daniel remained ever constant and fearless in his prayer life (Dan. 6:5–10).

When Daniel received news that the king had passed a law forbidding prayer to any god besides the king, he did not waver (Dan. 6:10). He went home and prayed three separate times as he always had, even opening his windows toward Jerusalem as he “prayed and gave thanks before his God” (Dan. 6:10). Daniel decided he would rather face death than say his prayers in secret. No matter what difficulty he faced, he continued praising God and giving thanks. Whether his circumstances were foreboding or favorable, Daniel was disciplined and predictable in his prayer life. His example challenges us to be faithful in our prayer lives, too.

**Questions to explore:**

`What excuses do we offer for not having a more consistent prayer life? How does Daniel’s story challenge these excuses?`