---
title:  Prayer Posture
date:   04/05/2026
---

### inTerpret

Some people pray only when they’re scared or concerned about something. When life is going smoothly, they forget to pray. However, both in the good times and the bad, Daniel always felt his need for God and was consistent in his prayer life. Even on his worst days, Daniel praised God for His goodness (Dan. 6:10). As a statesman in the king’s court, Daniel would’ve related quite easily to people’s busy schedules today. Despite having a stressful job with a hectic schedule, Daniel was fully committed to his set times of prayer.

Daniel knelt down when he prayed. God hears our prayers whether we are standing, sitting, lying down, or in any other position, but Daniel reminds us that something very special happens when we bow down before God on our knees. When we kneel to pray, it’s like a physical declaration to the powers of darkness that we choose God.

The physical act of kneeling in submission reveals a humble heart posture. It’s somehow different from sitting in a chair or lying in a bed while we pray, although we can pray in these positions too. When we kneel before God, we show we are ready to serve Him with all our hearts, as our bodies and our words declare that He is sovereign and that we are merely His created children. Throughout the Bible, kneeling is presented as a reverent position for approaching God in prayer (Luke 22:41; Acts 7:60; 9:40; 20:36).

Standing in prayer was another common practice in biblical times (2 Chron. 20:5, 6, 13; 1 Sam. 1:26; Job 30:20; Luke 18:11), and the Bible shares examples of people who sat when they prayed as well (2 Sam. 7:18; Judges 20:26, 27). Others prostrated themselves before God, with their faces touching the earth—though this posture was less commonly associated with prayer and more with submission before a superior (1 Kings 1:47; Mark 14:35).

What’s your usual posture when you pray? The Bible doesn’t require us to pray in any particular position, but postures are important as they reflect our attitude of reverence, our inner feelings, and our desire to surrender to God. Some people are unable to kneel, so ultimately, it’s the heart condition that matters most. If you can kneel but usually don’t, why not try kneeling the next time you pray and see how it affects your time with God?

`As you go about your day today, where and how will you whisper a prayer to commune with Jesus?`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Daniel 6. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._