---
title:  Jesus Teaches Us How to Pray
date:   06/05/2026
---

### inVite

In Jesus’ time, prayers that were long and carefully crafted like a performance—using complex words and often memorized—were highly esteemed. Jesus had nothing good to say about these kinds of prayers (Matt. 6:5–8). He revealed them to be what they were: ostentatious shows of “piety.”

The disciples saw Jesus pray and knew that prayer was a vital part of His life (Luke 5:16; 6:12; 9:18; 22:41; 24:30; Mark 1:35; 6:46). As they watched Jesus, they saw a stark contrast from the religious leaders and realized there’s so much more to prayer than they had ever considered. So the disciples went to Jesus, asking, “Lord, teach us to pray” (Luke 11:1).

Jesus modeled to His disciples—and to us—that we can pray simply, in everyday language. He showed us that our prayers should be sincere and from our hearts rather than grandiose and performative. Read Luke 11:2–4 and Matthew 6:5–15 and notice the following aspects of the prayer Jesus taught:

**Our Father in heaven:** Acknowledging your personal relationship with the Father of all.

**Hallowed be Your name:** Recognizing God’s holiness and approaching Him in reverence and respect.

**Your kingdom come:** Longing for God’s return and requesting an indwelling of the Holy Spirit until He does so.

**Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven:** Surrendering and praying for God’s will to be done in our lives and trusting that He knows best rather than merely praying for what we want.

**Give us this day our daily bread:** Asking for what we need to live, both physically (food and water) and spiritually (Jesus and His living Word).

**Forgive our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us:** Repenting, seeking forgiveness, and remembering to pardon those who have hurt us as freely as God forgives us.

**Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil:** Asking for protection and shelter from the evil in this world (Ps. 91).

**For Yours is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen:** Acknowledging that all we are, all we have, and all we do belongs to God. He alone deserves our glory and praise (1 Chron. 29:11).

In the same way that Jesus taught His disciples how to pray, we can follow this simple structure when we come to God: praise, confession, requests, and thanksgiving. Too often our prayers are full of requests when Jesus has taught us to pray for so much more!

**Questions to consider:**

`Why not turn your face to God each morning and evening to talk to the One who loves you more than any other? What’s stopping you from doing this as you know you should? Pray right now, as Jesus has invited us to.`