---
title: inQuire
date: 09/05/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Daniel’s prayer life:**

1. What kinds of responsibilities and pressures did Daniel carry in his professional life? Dan. 6:1–3
2. What kind of opposition and hostility did Daniel face in this foreign country? Dan. 6:4–9
3. What important lessons can we learn from Daniel’s prayer life? Dan. 6:10–13
4. How should we apply Daniel’s example of praying throughout the day? Ps. 55:17; 1 Thess. 5:17
5. Though the Bible recognizes many different acceptable positions for prayer (including sitting and standing), what’s the significance of kneeling?

`Personal reflection: What experiences have made prayer meaningful to you?`

**Jesus’ prayer life:**

1. How much did Jesus depend on His prayer connection to His Father? Luke 6:12; Mark 1:35; Mark 6:46
2. How did Jesus’ prayer life impact His disciples? Luke 11:1
3. What kinds of prayers did Jesus discourage? Matt. 6:5–8
4. hat topics did Jesus teach us to address in our prayers? Matt. 6:9–13

`Personal reflection: Would you describe prayer as beautiful or burdensome? What has contributed to your perspective?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- Guarding alone time with God in prayer is essential for staying spiritually strong amid the pressures of this world.
- Kneeling is a position of humility and reverence that helps us take a break from everything else and focus on God.
- Jesus taught us to be personal and authentic in our prayers, not showy or monotonous.