---
title:  Persecuted but Not Forsaken
date:  27/12/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Eph. 3:1; 2 Cor. 4:7–12; Acts 9:16; Philem. 15, 16; Col. 4:9; Phil. 1:1–3; Col. 1:1, 2.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice!” (Philippians 4:4, NKJV).

An Adventist pastor, imprisoned on false charges, spent nearly two years behind bars. Though at first greatly perplexed, he realized the prison was his God-given mission field. When his fellow prisoners learned that he was a pastor, they asked him to preach. He did, and he gave out literature too. He even baptized prisoners and conducted Communion services.

“At times,” he admitted, “it was difficult ministering in the prison, but there was also joy, especially when you saw prayers answered and lives changed.”

Paul wrote Philippians and Colossians from prison (see Phil. 1:7, Col. 4:3). In fact, in Philippi itself, after Paul and Silas were unjustly accused, the jailer put “their feet in the stocks” (Acts 16:24, NKJV). At midnight, they were “praying and singing hymns to God, _and the prisoners were listening to them_” (Acts 16:25, NKJV; _emphasis supplied_). Truly they knew how to “rejoice always.”

This week we’ll look at the circumstances that Paul faced. He saw a larger purpose for what happened to him, and perhaps we can learn from him when we, as we inevitably do, face our own trials.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, January 3._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The apostle Paul felt a deep responsibility for those converted under his labors. Above all things, he longed that they should be faithful, “that I may rejoice in the day of Christ,” he said, “that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain.” Philippians 2:16. He trembled for the result of his ministry. He felt that even his own salvation might be imperiled if he should fail of fulfilling his duty and the church should fail of co-operating with him in the work of saving souls. He knew that preaching alone would not suffice to educate the believers to hold forth the word of life. He knew that line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little, they must be taught to advance in the work of Christ.\
It is a universal principle that whenever one refuses to use his God-given powers, these powers decay and perish. Truth that is not lived, that is not imparted, loses its life-giving power, its healing virtue. Hence the apostle’s fear that he might fail of presenting every man perfect in Christ. Paul’s hope of heaven grew dim when he contemplated any failure on his part that would result in giving the church the mold of the human instead of the divine. His knowledge, his eloquence, his miracles, his view of eternal scenes when caught up to the third heaven—all would be unavailing if through unfaithfulness in his work those for whom he labored should fail of the grace of God. And so, by word of mouth and by letter, he pleaded with those who had accepted Christ, to pursue a course that would enable them to be “blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, . . . as lights in the world, holding forth the word of life.” Philippians 2:15, 16.\
Every true minister feels a heavy responsibility for the spiritual advancement of the believers entrusted to his care, a longing desire that they shall be laborers together with God. He realizes that upon the faithful performance of his God-given work depends in a large degree the well-being of the church. Earnestly and untiringly he seeks to inspire the believers with a desire to win souls for Christ, remembering that every addition to the church should be one more agency for the carrying out of the plan of redemption.—The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 206, 207.