---
title:  Paul, the Prisoner of Jesus Christ
date:  28/12/2025
---

Philippians and Colossians are called Prison Epistles because they were written while Paul was in prison (the others are Ephesians and Philemon). Most commentators think they were written while Paul was in Rome, about a.d. 60–62 (see Acts 28:16).

`Read Ephesians 3:1 and Philemon 1. What is the significance of how Paul characterizes his imprisonment?`

Paul has given his life in service to Jesus Christ. If that service includes being a prisoner, he is ready. Paul describes himself as “an ambassador in chains” (Eph. 6:20, NKJV). He had been on missionary journeys, raising up churches and training workers for the Lord. He may have asked, “Why am I here when I could be doing so much more without these chains?” Paul was also imprisoned later, when he wrote 2 Timothy, which is considered a Pastoral Epistle. So at least five books of the New Testament were written while he was in prison.

In none of the prison epistles does Paul mention exactly where he was imprisoned; thus, some have suggested either Ephesus or Caesarea. But there is no biblical evidence that Paul was ever imprisoned in Ephesus. Caesarea might seem a more likely possibility, except there is no apparent threat to Paul’s life in this city. There definitely is that threat, however, by the time Philippians was written (see Phil. 1:20, Phil. 2:17).

This epistle gives us some other clues as to where Paul was at the time of his imprisonment. First, there was a praetorium. This can refer to a provincial governor’s official residence, like the one in Jerusalem, where Jesus was examined by Pilate (Matt. 27:27, John 18:33), and in Caesarea, where Paul was imprisoned (Acts 23:35). But Paul clearly uses this term not of a place but in reference to people. He says “the whole palace guard” became familiar with the gospel (Phil. 1:13, NKJV). In Rome, these were elite soldiers, about fourteen thousand, who protected the emperor and guarded his prisoners.

Second, Paul also sends greetings from the believers in “Caesar’s household” (Phil. 4:22). This indicates that Paul was a prisoner in Rome and in contact with those who served the imperial household.

`How do we learn to make the best of whatever tough situation we find ourselves in? Why is that not always easy to do?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It is not because of any restriction on the part of God that the riches of His grace do not flow earthward to men. If all were willing to receive, all would become filled with His Spirit.\
It is the privilege of every soul to be a living channel through which God can communicate to the world the treasures of His grace, the unsearchable riches of Christ. There is nothing that Christ desires so much as agents who will represent to the world His Spirit and character. There is nothing that the world needs so much as the manifestation through humanity of the Saviour’s love. All heaven is waiting for channels through which can be poured the holy oil to be a joy and blessing to human hearts.\
“God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ, . . . and hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus: that in ages to come He might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus” (Ephesians 2:4–7).\
Such are the words in which “Paul the aged,” “a prisoner of Jesus Christ,” writing from his prison house at Rome, endeavored to set before his brethren that which he found language inadequate to express in its fulness—“the unsearchable riches of Christ,” the treasure of grace freely offered to the fallen sons of men.\
As your soul yearns after God, you will find more and still more of the unsearchable riches of His grace. As you contemplate these riches, you will come into possession of them, and will reveal the merits of the Saviour’s sacrifice, the protection of His righteousness, the fulness of His wisdom, and His power to present you before the Father “without spot, and blameless” (2 Peter 3:14).—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 187.

Thus, while apparently cut off from active labor, Paul exerted a wider and more lasting influence than if he had been free to travel among the churches as in former years. As a prisoner of the Lord, he had a firmer hold upon the affections of his brethren; and his words, written by one under bonds for the sake of Christ, commanded greater attention and respect than they did when he was personally with them. Not until Paul was removed from them, did the believers realize how heavy were the burdens he had borne in their behalf. Heretofore they had largely excused themselves from responsibility and burden bearing because they lacked his wisdom, tact, and indomitable energy; but now, left in their inexperience to learn the lessons they had shunned, they prized his warnings, counsels, and instructions as they had not prized his personal work. And as they learned of his courage and faith during his long imprisonment they were stimulated to greater fidelity and zeal in the cause of Christ.—The Acts of the Apostles, p. 454.