---
title:  Paul in Chains
date:  29/12/2025
---

While in Macedonia, Paul mentions multiple imprisonments (2 Cor. 6:5, 2 Cor. 11:23, 2 Cor. 7:5). The first recorded instance was in Philippi (Acts 16:16–24). Later he was imprisoned in Jerusalem briefly before being transferred to prison in Caesarea.

Elsewhere, Paul mentions being “in my chains” (Philem. 10, 13, NKJV). Although under house arrest in Rome, he was chained to an elite Roman soldier. Ignatius, a Christian of the early second century who was chained up like this, described the soldiers as behaving like “wild beasts . . . who only get worse when they are well treated.”—Michael W. Holmes, ed., The Apostolic Fathers (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2007), p. 231.

`Read 2 Corinthians 4:7–12. In this passage, what reveals how Paul was able to endure the trials he faced? What seems to be the focus of his life?`

No matter how hard life got, Paul was able to see a brighter side, and that gave him courage to bear up under stress. Despite Satan hurling everything he could, Paul knew he was not forsaken.

`Read 2 Corinthians 6:3–7. What spiritual resources did Paul have available to help him face these difficulties?`

Often, we may be tempted to look at our circumstances, our weaknesses, or our past failures and become discouraged. It’s at times like these that we need to remember all the amazing provisions God has made for our success in battling evil. One of the most important is the Bible itself, “the word of truth,” because we can learn from others’ mistakes and also learn how these people have succeeded. Also, the Holy Spirit “makes effectual what has been wrought out by the world’s Redeemer. It is by the Spirit that the heart is made pure. Through the Spirit the believer becomes a partaker of the divine nature. Christ has given His Spirit as a divine power to overcome all hereditary and cultivated tendencies to evil, and to impress His own character upon His church.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 671.

`How can we, as laity or as clergy, always “commend ourselves as ministers of God” (2 Cor. 6:4, NKJV)? What does that mean?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Notwithstanding the prevailing iniquity, there was a line of holy men who, elevated and ennobled by communion with God, lived as in the companionship of heaven. They were men of massive intellect, of wonderful attainments. They had a great and holy mission—to develop a character of righteousness, to teach a lesson of godliness, not only to the men of their time, but for future generations. Only a few of the most prominent are mentioned in the Scriptures; but all through the ages God had faithful witnesses, truehearted worshipers.\
How often those who trusted the word of God, though in themselves utterly helpless, have withstood the power of the whole world—Enoch, pure in heart, holy in life, holding fast his faith in the triumph of righteousness against a corrupt and scoffing generation; Noah and his household against the men of his time, men of the greatest physical and mental strength and the most debased in morals; the children of Israel at the Red Sea, a helpless, terrified multitude of slaves, against the mightiest army of the mightiest nation on the globe; David, a shepherd lad, having God’s promise of the throne, against Saul, the established monarch, bent on holding fast his power; Shadrach and his companions in the fire, and Nebuchadnezzar on the throne; Daniel among the lions, his enemies in the high places of the kingdom; Jesus on the cross, and the Jewish priests and rulers forcing even the Roman governor to work their will; Paul in chains led to a criminal’s death, Nero the despot of a world empire.\
Such examples are not found in the Bible only. They abound in every record of human progress. The Vaudois and the Huguenots, Wycliffe and Huss, Jerome and Luther, Tyndale and Knox, Zinzendorf and Wesley, with multitudes of others have witnessed to the power of God’s word against human power and policy in support of evil. These are the world’s true nobility. This is its royal line. In this line the youth of today are called to take their places.—Conflict and Courage, p. 9.

Let us consider the experience of Paul for a little. At the very time when it seemed that the apostle’s labors were most needed to strengthen the tried and persecuted church, his liberty was taken away, and he was bound in chains. But this was the time for the Lord to work, and precious were the victories won.\
When to all appearance Paul was able to do the least, then it was that the truth found an entrance into the royal palace. Not Paul’s masterly sermons before these great men, but his bonds attracted their attention. Through his captivity he was a conqueror for Christ. The patience and meekness with which he submitted to his long and unjust confinement set these men to weighing character. Sending his last message to his loved ones in the faith, Paul gathers up with his words the greetings from these saints in Caesar’s household to the saints in other cities.—Reflecting Christ, p. 358.