---
title:  The Churches of Philippi and Colossae
date:  01/01/2026
---

`Read Philippians 1:1–3 and Colossians 1:1, 2. How are the churches in Philippi and Colossae described, and what significance does the depiction have?`

Paul’s typical greeting in his epistles calls Christians in those places “saints”; that is, through baptism they have been set apart as God’s special people, just as the people of Israel, through the practice of circumcision (Exod. 19:5, 6; compare 1 Pet. 2:9, 10), had been set apart as a “holy nation.” (This has utterly nothing to do with the Roman church’s practice of canonizing people as “saints.”)

Also interesting is the parallel between the greetings of these two epistles. Paul refers to “overseers and deacons” (Phil. 1:1, ESV) in Philippi and “faithful brothers in Christ” (Col. 1:2, ESV) in Colossae. When the New Testament speaks of “faithful brothers,” they have a specific ministry in the church (see Eph. 6:21, Col. 4:7, 1 Pet. 5:12). So, it appears Paul is addressing not only the church members but also the church leaders in these cities. The reference to offices that are more specifically described in other places (for example, in 1 Tim. 3:1–12, Titus 1:5–9) witnesses to the existence and importance of organization from the earliest period of the church.

Training coworkers such as Timothy and Epaphras and providing for the leadership of local churches was a priority for Paul and augmented his evangelistic efforts. In other words, there was a strategic approach to both outreach and retention. Our Adventist pioneers followed the New Testament model of church organization, as many Advent Review and Sabbath Herald articles from the 1850s show. In fact, James White said, “The divine order of the New Testament is sufficient to organize the church of Christ. If more were needed, it would have been given by inspiration.”—“Gospel Order,” Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, Dec. 6, 1853, p. 173. Long before Paul wrote to these churches, the apostles had already begun installing officers for the church in Jerusalem (see Acts 6:1–6, Acts 11:30), which “was to serve as a model for the organization of churches in every other place where messengers of truth should win converts to the gospel.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 91.

It is well known that Paul used literary assistants at times in the composition of his epistles. Timothy is also named as a co-sender elsewhere (see, for example, 2 Cor. 1:1, Philemon 1). The fact that Paul goes on to use “I” rather than “we” shows that his authority stands behind these epistles also.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Paul in his letter to the Colossians sets forth the rich blessings granted to the children of God. He says: We “do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding; that ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God; strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness” (Colossians 1:9–11).\
Again he writes of his desire that the brethren at Ephesus might come to understand the height of the Christian’s privilege. He opens before them, in the most comprehensive language, the marvelous power and knowledge that they might possess as sons and daughters of the Most High. It was theirs “to be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man,” to be “rooted and grounded in love,” to “comprehend with all saints what is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height; and to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge.” But the prayer of the apostle reaches the climax of privilege when he prays that “ye might be filled with all the fulness of God” (Ephesians 3:16–19).\
Here are revealed the heights of attainment that we may reach through faith in the promises of our heavenly Father, when we fulfill His requirements. Through the merits of Christ we have access to the throne of Infinite Power. “He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things?” (Romans 8:32). The Father gave His Spirit without measure to His Son, and we also may partake of its fullness. . . .\
Through Jesus the fallen sons of Adam become “sons of God.” “Both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren” (Hebrews 2:11). The Christian’s life should be one of faith, of victory, and joy in God. . . . Truly spoke God’s servant Nehemiah: “The joy of the Lord is your strength” (Nehemiah 8:10). And Paul says: “Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again I say, Rejoice” (Philippians 4:4). “Rejoice evermore. Pray without ceasing. In every thing give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you” (1 Thessalonians 5:16–18). . . .\
It is only as the law of God is restored to its rightful position that there can be a revival of primitive faith and godliness among His professed people.—Reflecting Christ, p. 215.