---
title:  Further Thought
date:  02/01/2026
---

“God has chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the spirit and belief of the truth. Therefore stand fast. . . . If you serve God faithfully, you will meet with prejudice and op­position; but do not become provoked when you suffer wrongfully. Do not retaliate. Hold fast your integrity in Jesus Christ. Set your face as a flint heaven­ward. Let others speak their own words, and pursue their own course of action; it is for you to press on in the meekness and lowliness of Christ. Do your work with steadfast purpose, with purity of heart, with all your might and strength, leaning on the arm of God. The true and exalted nature of your work you may never know. The value of your being you can measure only by the life given to save you. . . .

“For every soul who is growing up into Christ there will be times of earnest and long-continued struggle; for the powers of darkness are determined to oppose the way of advance. But when we look to the cross of Christ for grace, we cannot fail. The promise of the Redeemer is, ‘I will never leave thee nor forsake thee.’ ‘I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world.’ ”—Ellen G. White, in The Youth’s Instructor, Nov. 9, 1899.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Paul was imprisoned several times, always unjustly. How do you respond when you are unfairly treated? What Bible promises can you suggest for such times?`

`Of the persecution of Christians, Tertullian, an early church leader, said, “The oftener we are mown down by you, the more in number we grow; the blood of Christians is seed.”—Alexander Roberts and James Donaldson, eds., Ante-Nicene Fathers, vol. 3, (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson Publishers, Inc., 1999), p. 55. At the same time, persecution in some places and times has greatly hindered the work of the church. What are ways that we can support those who suffer persecution for their faith?`

`Think about the memory text for this week in light of the hardships Paul suffered. “Rejoice always.” What does that mean? How are we supposed to do that? Someone you love is sick or dies. You lose your job. You are in great physical pain. Perhaps the key to understanding this is to ask, “Rejoice always in what?” That is, no matter our situation, what can we always rejoice in?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In Heavenly Places, “Blessings Unlimited,” May 31, p. 158.\
Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, “Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you,” pp. 31–35.\