---
title:  Saul of Tarsus Attacks Christians
date:   25/06/2017
---

_Acts 8:1–5_

We first meet Saul of Tarsus in the book of Acts. Saul takes part in the death of Stephen (Acts 7:58). Stephen is put to death by stoning. Stoning means to kill a person by throwing stones at him or her. The next time we meet Saul is in Acts 8:1–5. Here he takes part in putting Christians in Jerusalem to death.

Stephen’s preaching and his death for the cause of Christ affect Saul of Tarsus deeply. Stephen was a Jew who spoke Greek. He was also one of the seven deacons first chosen to serve in the Christian church (Acts 6:3–6). The book of Acts tells a story about Stephen and a group of Greek-speaking Jews. These Jews came to live in Jerusalem. There they quarreled with Stephen over his preaching about Jesus. It is very possible that Saul of Tarsus took part in these debates.

`Read Acts 6:9–15. What is Stephen accused of? What do the lies said against him remind you of? (Read Matthew 26:59–61 for the answer.)`

Stephen angered the Jews. Their hatred against his preaching seems to be because of two things. First, the Jews felt Stephen did not place enough importance on the Jewish law and the temple. Both were at the heart of Jewish worship. They were symbols of what it meant to be a Jew. The second thing Stephen did was to say that Jesus was the Messiah. But Jesus had been put to death. And now Stephen said that the risen Jesus—and not the law or the temple—should be the true center of the Jewish faith.

No wonder Stephen angered Saul the Pharisee (Philippians 3:3–6)! The Pharisees were a Jewish religious group. They followed Jewish laws very strictly. So, Saul is eager to punish Christians for not honoring the law. The promise of God’s kingdom had not yet come to pass. Saul may have believed it would come to pass only if Israel were cleansed of religious error first. For Saul, that error included the idea that this Jesus was the Messiah.

`We need to act on what we believe, as Saul did. But how does his story show that we need to be careful about what we believe? After all, we, too, could be wrong at times. So then, how can we know what to believe?`
