---
title:  Saul Becomes a Christian
date:   26/06/2017
---

_Acts 9:1–18_

Saul first attacks the church in a way that is not very noticeable at all. (He only holds the coats of the men who stone Stephen to death.) But very soon Saul’s work in the attack on the church grows (read Acts 8:1–3; Acts 9:1, 2, 13, 14, 21; Acts 22:3–5).

Luke wrote the book of Acts. He uses several words to describe Saul. These words paint a picture of Saul as a savage beast. Luke also describes Saul as a soldier who wishes to destroy his enemy. The word translated as “destroy” in Acts 8:3 in the NIrV also is used in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, in Psalm 80:13. It is used there to describe the cruel way that a wild pig or boar acts. What these words show us is that Saul’s attack against Christians is a carefully thought-out plan to destroy the Christian faith from the earth.

`Read Acts 9:1–18; Acts 22:6–21; and Acts 26:12–19. What part do God’s mercy and forgiveness have in Saul’s change? How worthy is Saul of the goodness God shows him?`

Saul changes from a destroyer of the Christian faith to a believer in it. This change must seem impossible to everyone. So, it is no wonder that many people have difficulty believing Saul’s change of heart is real.

The only thing Saul deserves is punishment. God gives him mercy and forgiveness instead. But it is important to realize that Saul’s change does not happen without a cause. And he is not forced to become a Christian.

Saul is not an atheist.An atheist is a person who believes there is no God. Instead, Saul is a very religious man. But he is also very wrong in his understanding of God. Jesus’ words in Acts 26:14 show that His Spirit had been working on Saul’s heart. Jesus says to Saul, “ ‘It is hard for you to kick against the goads’ ” (ESV). In Bible times, a “goad” was a stick with a sharp point. It was used to poke oxen when they refused to plow. Saul refuses for a long time to do what God wants. But then Saul meets the risen Jesus. And Saul stops fighting God.

`Think over your own experience of becoming a Christian. How, like Saul, did you receive God’s mercy? Why is it important never to forget what Christ has given us?`
