---
title:  Saul in Damsascus
date:   27/06/2017
---

_Acts 9:10–14_

Saul loses his sight as a result of meeting Jesus. Then Jesus instructs Saul to go to the house of a man named Judas. There Saul is to wait for another man, Ananias. No doubt Saul’s blindness is a powerful reminder to him of the spiritual blindness that once led him to harm Christians.

Meeting Jesus on the Damascus road changes everything for Saul. Saul once thought he was so right. But he was dead wrong. Saul believed he worked for God. Instead, he had worked against Him. So Saul enters Damascus a changed man. He is no longer the proud Pharisee who left Jerusalem, wanting to stamp out the Christian faith. So, Saul does not eat or drink anything his  rst three days in Damascus. Instead, he fasts and prays. He thinks about all that has happened.

Read Acts 9:10–14. Imagine how Ananias must have felt when he heard the news about Saul. The man who once attacked the believers of Jesus now believes in Him! Now he is no longer Saul but Paul. And God has chosen him to take the good news about Jesus to the Gentiles. Gentiles are people who are not Jews. Read Acts 26:16–18 for more about Paul’s work among the Gentile world.

No wonder Ananias is confused! Later, the church in Jerusalem is slow to accept Paul. And that is three years after he became a Christian (Acts 9:26–30). So imagine how hard it must have been for the believers in Damascus only a few days after his change! But God gives Ananias a vision about Saul’s change. Anything less than a vision might not have convinced Ananias that what he heard was true: the enemy of Jewish believers is now one of them!

Saul left Jerusalem with power from the chief priest to destroy the Christian faith. But God has a far different work for Saul to do. Saul is to take the gospel to the Gentiles. This idea must have shocked Ananias and the other Jewish believ- ers even more than Saul’s becoming a Christian. After all, Saul once tried to stop the spread of the Christian faith. But now God would use him to spread it far beyond anything the Jewish believers ever dreamed possible.

`Read 1 Samuel 16:7; Matthew 7:1; and 1 Corinthians 4:5. What do these verses teach us about why we must be careful of how we judge the spiritual experiences of others? What mistakes have you made in your judg- ments of others? And what have you learned from these mistakes?`