---
title:  The Gospel Goes to the Gentiles
date:   28/06/2017
---

_Acts 11:19–21, 26_

`Read Acts 11:19–21, 26. Where is the first Gentile church started? What causes believers to go there?`

Persecution breaks out in Jerusalem after Stephen’s death. Many Jewish believers flee north to the city of Antioch, 300 miles away. Antioch was the capital of Syria. Antioch was the third most important city in the Roman Empire, after Rome and Alexandria. About 500,000 people from all over the world lived in Antioch. So Antioch was the perfect spot to have a church with many Jews and Gentiles. The large mix of people there also made Antioch a good place to begin the worldwide mission of the church in its early days.

`What happens in Antioch that causes Barnabas to visit the city and then invite Paul to join him there? What picture of the church does Acts 11:20–26 give us?`

It is hard to put together a time line of Paul’s life. A time line shows when important events have happened. But it seems that five years pass between Paul’s visit to Jerusalem in Acts 9:26–30 and the invitation from Barnabas for Paul to join him in Antioch. What does Paul do for those five years? It is hard to say. But Galatians 1:21 gives us a hint. Paul may have been preaching the gospel in Syria and Cilicia. Some believe that during this time Paul’s family took away his legal right to receive money or land from them when they died (Philippians 3:8). As a result, Paul suffers many hardships. (Read 2 Corinthians 11:23–28.)

The church in Antioch grows under the Spirit’s leading. Acts 13:1 shows that the church is a mix of people from all over the world: Barnabas is from Cyprus, Lucius from Cyrene, and Paul from Cilicia. Simeon is possibly from Africa. And there are Gentile believers from many other places. But the Spirit now wants to take the gospel to even more Gentiles beyond Syria and Judea. And Antioch would be the center in Syria from which this work would spread.

`Read Acts 11:19–26 again. These verses show that the church at Antioch is made up of all kinds of people with different ways of life, customs, traditions, art, and so on. What can we learn from this fact that could help churches today to do the good work done in Antioch?`