---
title:  Disagreement Within the Church
date:   29/06/2017
---

_Acts 15:1–5_

It was not long before trouble began within the churches of the first believers. To begin with, not everyone was happy that Gentile believers had joined the church. The first Christians agreed they needed to reach the Gentiles. But they disagreed over what Gentiles should be asked to do to join the church. Some felt that faith in Jesus was not enough to be a Christian. They argued that to be true Christians the Gentiles would need to do two things. First, all male Gentiles would need to be circumcised. To be circumcised means that the skin at the end of the sex organ of a man or a boy is cut off. Second, Gentile believers would need to obey the law of Moses.

Acts 10:1–11:18 tells of Peter’s experience with Cornelius, a Gentile. Cornelius is a Roman soldier who is not circumcised. Peter baptizes Cornelius. The Jewish believers in the church are upset over the baptism. Their feelings are a clear example in the church of the disagreement over Gentiles. Letting one or two Gentiles join the church may have upset some believers. But Paul wants to throw open wide the doors of the church for all Gentiles to join just by believing in Jesus alone. This is why some believers try to stop Paul’s work among the Gentiles.

`Read Acts 15:1–5. How do the believers from Judea try to overturn Paul’s work with Gentile Christians in Antioch?`

In the end, the Jerusalem Council takes Paul’s side in the debate over whether Gentile believers need to be circumcised. But many Jewish believers still try to stop Paul from taking the gospel to the Gentiles. Seven years pass after the Jerusalem Council. Then Paul makes one last visit to Jerusalem. Many people there are still suspicious about Paul’s gospel. In fact, Paul nearly loses his life when he visits the temple. Jews from Asia cry out against him, “ ‘Men of Israel,’ ” (Acts 21:28, KJV) “ ‘help us! . . . This is the man who teaches everyone in all places against our people. He speaks against our law and against this holy place’ ” (NIrV).

`Put yourself in the place of the Jewish believers who were upset by Paul’s teaching. What can they teach us about how our own ideas can lead us in the wrong direction? How can we learn to keep from making the mistakes they did?`