---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   30/06/2017
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Individual [Personal] Independence [Freedom],” pages 430–434, in Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 3. This chapter deals with what it means to be a true Christian in the church.Also read The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 6, pages 225–234. These pages map out the early life of Paul and talk about his becoming a Christian.

“Once Paul was known as a strong defender of the Jewish religion and as one who punished the followers of Jesus. Paul had courage. He never gave up. He had strong powers of reason. He could make someone look like a fool with his powerful gift of words. And now the Jews saw this gifted young man had joined those he once fought against.Without any fear, Paul preached in the name of Jesus.

“A general killed in battle is lost to his army.Yet, his death does not make his enemy stronger. But suppose a well-known man joins the enemy. Then those whom he joins gain a strong advantage. Saul of Tarsus easily might have been struck dead by the Lord on his way to Damascus. Suppose Saul had been killed. Then the Jews would have lost much of their power to punish Christians. But God in His goodness spared Saul’s life. And then He changed Saul. And so, the champion of the enemy joined the side of Christ. Saul had the strong purpose and the courage needed to lead the church in its early years.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders], page 124.

#### Discussion Questions

`Some of Paul’s harshest enemies were Jews who believed in Jesus. What can we learn from this fact?`

`It is important to stand up for what we believe.At the same time, how can we make sure that we are not fighting against God when we take our stand?`

#### Summary

Saul met the risen Jesus on the road to Damascus. It was a life-changing moment for him and for the history of the church. God changed the man who attacked the church. And God chose him to take the gospel to the Gentile world. Paul taught that Gentiles should join the church by faith alone. This teaching was hard for some in the church to accept. Their fight against Paul is a warning. It shows how wrong ideas and feelings of dislike against others can get in the way of our work for God.