---
title:  Reality Check
date:  28/03/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Rev. 3:14–22; Rev. 4:9–11; Gen. 2:7; Gen. 3:8–10; Jer. 31:3, 4; John 15:1–11; Rom. 8:9–11.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “ ‘As the Father loved Me, I also have loved you; abide in My love’ ” (John 15:9, NKJV).

How would you describe your relationship with God today? Is it vibrant and strong? Do you spend time investing in this relationship, searching His inspired Word, and talking to Him as a Friend? If so, how much time do you spend doing it?

Also, are you compelled to share with others about your relationship with God because it’s the most wonderful relationship in your life? Or, instead, has your relationship with God waned over time? It’s there, yes, and you check in from time to time, but to be honest, it’s not as strong as it used to be. Or, perhaps, you’re somewhere in between, what the Bible calls “lukewarm” (Rev. 3:16).

Have you ever wondered if angels ponder why we don’t live in adoration of our Savior and Redeemer, with hungry hearts and eager minds to grow closer to God every day? But, truly, a relationship with God changes _everything_ — both here and into eternity.

This week, let’s consider the current state of our relationship with God and what the Bible’s advice is for us. Indeed, we can’t move from where we are to someplace better until we take an honest reality check of ourselves and listen to the solution that Jesus describes.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for April 4._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In forming a relationship with Christ, the renewed man is but coming back to his appointed relationship with God. . . . His first duty is to his children and his nearest relatives. Nothing can excuse him from neglecting the inner circle for the larger circle outside. In the day of final reckoning fathers and mothers . . . will be asked what they did and said to secure the salvation of the souls they took upon themselves the responsibility of bringing into the world. Did they neglect their lambs, leaving them to the care of strangers? . . . A great good done for others will not cancel the debt you owe to God to care for your children. The spiritual welfare of your family comes first.\
In rightly training and molding the minds of her children, mothers are entrusted with the greatest mission ever given to mortals.\
Whenever you take up the duty that lies nearest you, then God will bless you, and hear your prayers. There are too many doing outside missionary work, while their own households are left destitute of any such efforts,—going to ruin through neglect. . . . The first missionary work is to see that love, light, and joy come into the home circle. Let us not be looking for some great temperance or mis­sionary work to do until we have first done the duties at home. Every morning we should think, What kind act can I do today? What tender word can I speak? Kind words at home are blessed sunshine. The husband needs them, the wife needs them, the children need them. . . . It ought to be the desire of every heart to make as much heaven below as possible.—Our Father Cares, p. 36.

In the service of God there is no middle ground. . . . Let none expect to make a compromise with the world, and yet enjoy the bles­sing of the Lord. Let God’s people come out from this world, and be separate. Let us seek more earnestly to know and do the will of our Father in heaven. Let the light of truth which has shone upon us be so received that its bright rays may go forth from us to the world. Let unbelievers see that the faith we hold makes us better men and better women; that it is a living reality, sanctifying the character, transforming the life. . . . Let our conversation be upon heavenly things. Let us surround ourselves with an atmosphere of Christian cheerfulness. Let us show that our religion can stand the test of trial. Let us by our kindness, forbearance, and love prove to the world the power of our faith.—Our High Calling, p. 305.
