---
title:  Michael, Our Prince
date:  22/03/2020
---

`Read Daniel 12:1. Who changes the course of history at the end of time? How do Romans 8:34 and Hebrews 7:25 help us understand what this text means?`

Every chapter of Daniel so far has begun by mentioning the ruler of a pagan nation. Daniel 12 likewise begins with a ruler, but unlike every other chapter the ruler is a divine prince who rises to deliver God’s people from the hands of their enemies.

As we glimpsed in our study of Daniel 10, Michael is the same powerful heavenly being who appears to Daniel at the Tigris River. There He emerges as the heavenly representative of God’s people. He also appears elsewhere in Daniel as the Son of Man (Daniel 7), the Prince of the host (Daniel 8), and Messiah the Prince (Daniel 9). Thus Michael — whose name means “who is like God?” — must be none other than Jesus Himself.

It is important to note the timing of Michael’s intervention. According to Daniel 12:1, it occurs “at that time” (Dan. 12:1). This expression refers to the time just mentioned in Daniel 11:40-45. This is the period of time that extends from the fall of the papacy in 1798 until the resurrection at the end of time (Dan. 12:2).

Two important aspects of Michael’s work can be inferred from the verb “stand” utilized in Daniel 12:1 to describe His action. First, the verb “stand” evokes the rise of kings to conquer and rule. The verb also primarily connotes a military sense. It shows that Michael acts as a military leader who protects His people and leads them in a special way during the last stages of the great controversy.

Second, the verb “stand” also points to a judgment setting. Michael “stands” to act as an advocate in the heavenly tribunal. As the Son of Man, He comes before the Ancient of Days to represent God’s people during the investigative judgment (Dan. 7:9-14). Thus Michael’s rising or standing evokes the military and judicial aspects of His work. In other words, He is invested with the power to defeat God’s enemies and with the authority to represent God’s people in the heavenly tribunal.

`Think about what it means to know that Michael stands in our behalf, even now. What hope should that give you, a sinner?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[Jesus] walked once a man on earth, His divinity clothed with humanity, a suffering, tempted man, beset with Satan’s devices… . Now He is at the right hand of God, He is in heaven as our advocate, making intercession for us. We must always take comfort and hope as we think of this. He is thinking of those who are subject to temptations in this world. He thinks of us individually, and knows our every necessity. When tempted, just say, He cares for me, He makes intercession for me, He loves me, He has died for me. I will give myself unreservedly to Him.—_Reflecting Christ_, p. 109.

I was taken off in vision to the most holy place, where I saw Jesus still interceding for Israel. On the bottom of His garment was a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate. Then I saw that Jesus would not leave the most holy place until every case was decided either for salvation or destruction, and that the wrath of God could not come until Jesus had finished His work in the most holy place, laid off His priestly attire, and clothed Himself with the garments of vengeance. Then Jesus will step out from between the Father and men, and God will keep silence no longer, but pour out His wrath on those who have rejected His truth. I saw that the anger of the nations, the wrath of God, and the time to judge the dead, were separate and distinct, one following the other; also that Michael had not stood up, and that the time of trouble, such as never was, had not yet commenced. The nations are now getting angry, but when our High Priest has finished His work in the sanctuary, He will stand up, put on the garments of vengeance, and then the seven last plagues will be poured out.—_Life Sketches_, p. 116.

Men have only one Advocate, one Intercessor, who is able to pardon transgression. Shall not our hearts swell with gratitude to Him who gave Jesus to be the propitiation for our sins? Think deeply upon the love the Father has manifested in our behalf, the love that He has expressed for us. We cannot measure this love. Measurement there is none. We can only point to Calvary, to the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world. It is an infinite sacrifice. Can we comprehend and measure infinity? …

Christ is the representative of God to man and the representative of man to God. He came to this world as man’s substitute and surety, and He is fully able to save all who repent and return to their allegiance. Because of His righteousness, He is able to place man on vantage ground. Christ our Passover has been sacrificed for us. He gave His precious, innocent life to save guilty human beings from eternal ruin, that through faith in Him they might stand guiltless before the throne of God.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 7, p. 914.