---
title:  Written in the Book
date:  23/03/2020
---

`Daniel 12:1 talks about those who are “found written in the book”? What does that mean?`

The time of Michael’s intervention is also described as a time of trouble without parallel. This corresponds to the time when God’s Spirit will be withdrawn from rebellious humankind. Then the seven last plagues, as expressions of God’s wrath upon the nations, will be poured upon the end-time Babylon (Revelation 16; Rev. 18:20-24) and the powers of darkness will be unleashed upon the world. Ellen G. White writes of this time that “Satan will then plunge the inhabitants of the earth into one great, final trouble. As the angels of God cease to hold in check the fierce winds of human passion, all the elements of strife will be let loose. The whole world will be involved in ruin more terrible than that which came upon Jerusalem of old”. — The Great Controversy, p. 614.

But God’s people will be delivered during this terrible time because, in the investigative judgment conducted in the heavenly tribunal, they have been vindicated by Jesus, the heavenly High Priest, and their names have been written in the book.

In order to understand the meaning of this book, we should keep in mind that the Bible mentions two kinds of heavenly books. One contains the names of those who belong to the Lord and is sometimes designated as the book of life (Exod. 32:32, Luke 10:20, Ps. 69:28, Phil. 4:3, Rev. 17:8).

In addition to the Book of Life, the Scriptures mention books containing the records of human deeds (Ps. 56:8, Mal. 3:16, Isa. 65:6). These are the books used in the heavenly tribunal to determine every person’s commitment to the Lord. These are heavenly records, “databases”, containing the names and deeds of every human being. Some people frown upon the idea of having their names, and especially their deeds, written in heaven. But once we commit our lives to Christ, our names are inscribed in the book of life, and our bad deeds are deleted in the judgment. This heavenly record provides judicial evidence to the entire universe that we belong to Jesus and therefore have the right to be protected during the time of trouble.

`Why is it that the righteousness of Christ alone, credited to us, is our only hope of being found “written in the book”? Bring your answer to class for Sabbath.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince which standeth for the children of thy people: and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time: and at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the book.” By this we see the importance of having our names written in the book of life. All whose names are registered there will be delivered from Satan’s power, and Christ will command that their filthy garments be removed, and that they be clothed with His righteousness. “And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him.”

In the time of trouble, Satan stirs up the wicked, and they encircle the people of God to destroy them. But he does not know that “pardon” has been written opposite their names in the books of heaven. He does not know that the command has been given, “Take away the filthy garments” from them, clothe them with “change of raiment.”—_Lift Him Up_, p. 347.

It is impossible for man to save himself. He may deceive himself in regard to this matter, but he cannot save himself. Christ’s righteousness alone can avail for his salvation, and this is the gift of God. This is the wedding garment in which you may appear as a welcome guest at the marriage supper of the Lamb. Let faith take hold of Christ without delay, and you will be a new creature in Jesus, a light to the world.

Christ is called “the Lord our righteousness,” and through faith each one should say, “The Lord my righteousness.” When faith lays hold upon this gift of God, the praise of God will be upon our lips, and we shall be able to say to others, “Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world” (John 1:29). We shall then be able to tell the lost concerning the plan of salvation, that while the world was lying under the curse of sin, the Lord presented terms of mercy to the fallen and hopeless sinner, and revealed the value and meaning of His grace.—_Selected Messages_, book 1, p. 331.

The world at large have no thoughts of [the judgement] day, and many of them do not care to hear anything about it. But we must meet the record of our lives. We must remember that there is a witness to all our works. An eye like a flame of fire beholds us in all our actions of life. Our very thoughts and the intents and purposes of our hearts are laid bare to God’s inspection. As the features are produced upon the polished plate of the artist, so are our characters upon the books of record in heaven.—_The Upward Look_, p. 192.