---
title:  Further Thought
date:  11/07/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Moses,” pp. 251–256, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

The dramatic burning bush call was probably the most transformative experience in Moses’ life. All other high points in his life depended on his positive, obedient response to God’s commissioning him to lead the Hebrews out of Egypt and to the Promised Land.

Sure, we know now how it all turned out. But put yourself in Moses’ place at the time of the burning bush. He had fled from Egypt to save his life. A new generation of Hebrews had come on the scene over the 40 years, many of whom probably knew little about him, or maybe even what they heard about him was wrong, filtered through stories that over time get distorted. _And yet now, he was called by God to lead this same people away from a powerful nation?_ No wonder he was reluctant at first!

Yes, it was an extremely demanding task, but imagine what he would have missed if he had given a final no to God. He might have just disap­peared into history instead of—through the power of God working in him—literally making history and becoming one of the greatest and most influential people, not just in the Bible but in the world itself.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In the quiet years spent in the desert, Moses did what God called him to do: he was a family man, took care of sheep, and wrote two biblical books under God’s inspiration before he was called to be a great leader of God’s people. What does Moses’ experience teach us about our duties in life?`

`One could argue that, on the surface, Moses’ excuses were, in and of themselves, pretty reasonable, were they not? Why should the people believe me? Who am I to begin with? I can’t speak well. What should this story tell us about how to learn to trust that God can enable us to do what He calls us to do?`

`Dwell more on the point made in Sunday’s study about Moses’ authorship of the book of Genesis and how important that work is to understanding sacred history and the plan of salvation. Why must we fight against every attempt (and there are many) to weaken the authority of the book, especially by denying the historicity of, particularly, the first 11 chapters?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Moses,” in Spiritual Gifts, vol. 3, pp. 180–202.\
“The Call of Moses,” Signs of the Times, February 26, 1880.\