---
title:  Surprising Grace
date:  09/10/2025
---

`Read Joshua 9:21–27. How did Joshua’s solution combine justice with grace?`

Even if the people of Israel had wanted to attack the Gibeonites, they would not have been allowed to pursue it because of the oath sworn by the rulers of the congregation. The Israelite leaders acted according to the principle that an oath, as long as it does not involve wrongdoing or criminal intent (Judg. 11:29–40), is binding, even if it leads to one’s personal hurt.

In the Old Testament, being prudent before making an oath and the keeping of one’s oath are seen as virtues of the pious (Ps. 15:4; Ps. 24:4; Eccl. 5:2, 6). Because the oath was made in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel, the leaders could not change it.

With the solemn oath taken by the leaders of Israel, the destiny of Israel was indissolubly linked to that of the Gibeonites. In fact, through their designation as woodcutters and water carriers for the house of God (Josh. 9:23), the Gibeonites became part and parcel of Israel’s worshiping community. Joshua’s answer, in contrast to the verdict of the rulers of Israel, which decreed servitude for “all the congregation” (Josh. 9:21, NKJV), transformed the curse into a potential blessing for the Gibeonites (compare with 2 Sam. 6:11).

The subsequent history of Gibeon testifies to the high religious privileges the city enjoyed, as well as to their loyalty to God’s people. The vow taken by Israel remained in place down through generations, so that when the Israelites returned from the Babylonian captivity, the Gibeonites were among those who helped rebuild Jerusalem (Neh. 7:25). Their actions will have eternally positive consequences but only because of God’s grace.

What might have happened had the Gibeonites disclosed their identity and requested mercy as Rahab did? We don’t know, but we cannot rule out the possibility that even a consultation of God’s will could have resulted in an exemption of the Gibeonites from destruction. God’s ultimate purpose is not to punish sinners but to see them repent and to grant them His mercy (compare with Ezek. 18:23 and Ezek. 33:11). The subterfuge of the Gibeonites has to be perceived as an appeal to God’s mercy, to His kind and just character. It was the Canaanites’ refusal to repent and their defiance of God’s purposes that led to the decision for their annihilation (Gen. 15:16). God honored the recognition of His supremacy by the Gibeonites, as well as their desire for peace rather than rebellion, and their willingness to give up idolatry and to worship the only true God.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

By marching all night he brought his forces before Gibeon in the morning. Scarcely had the confederate princes mustered their armies about the city when Joshua was upon them. The attack resulted in the utter discomfiture of the assailants. The immense host fled before Joshua up the mountain pass to Beth-horon; and having gained the height, they rushed down the precipitous descent upon the other side. Here a fierce hailstorm burst upon them. “The Lord cast down great stones from heaven: . . . they were more which died with hailstones than they whom the children of Israel slew with the sword.”\
While the Amorites were continuing their headlong flight, intent on finding refuge in the mountain strongholds, Joshua, looking down from the ridge above, saw that the day would be too short for the accomplishment of his work. If not fully routed, their enemies would again rally, and renew the struggle. “Then spake Joshua to the Lord, . . . and he said in the sight of Israel, Sun, stand thou still upon Gibeon; and thou, Moon, in the valley of Ajalon. And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the people had avenged themselves upon their enemies. . . . The sun stood still in the midst of heaven, and hasted not to go down about a whole day.”\
Before the evening fell, God’s promise to Joshua had been fulfilled. The entire host of the enemy had been given into his hand. Long were the events of that day to remain in the memory of Israel. “There was no day like that before it or after it, that Jehovah hearkened unto the voice of a man: for the Lord fought for Israel.” “The sun and moon stood still in their habitation: at the light of Thine arrows they went, and at the shining of Thy glittering spear. Thou didst march through the land in indignation, Thou didst thresh the heathen in anger. Thou wentest forth for the salvation of Thy people.” Habakkuk 3:11–13.\
The Spirit of God inspired Joshua’s prayer, that evidence might again be given of the power of Israel’s God. Hence the request did not show presumption on the part of the great leader. Joshua had received the promise that God would surely overthrow these enemies of Israel, yet he put forth as earnest effort as though success depended upon the armies of Israel alone. He did all that human energy could do, and then he cried in faith for divine aid. The secret of success is the union of divine power with human effort. Those who achieve the greatest results are those who rely most implicitly upon the Almighty Arm. The man who commanded, “Sun, stand thou still upon Gibeon; and thou, Moon, in the valley of Ajalon,” is the man who for hours lay prostrate upon the earth in prayer in the camp of Gilgal. The men of prayer are the men of power.—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, pp. 508, 509.