---
title:  Further Thought
date:  10/10/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Crossing the Jordan,” pp. 482, 483, in _Patriarchs and Prophets_.

After this story of Rahab and the spies, the rest of the Old Testament is silent about her until she emerges again in the genealogy of Jesus. It is stated that she became the wife of Salmon (from the tribe of Judah), the mother of Boaz, and the mother-in-law of another remarkable woman mentioned in the same genealogy: Ruth (Matt. 1:5; compare with Ruth 4:13, 21). Through her faith in God, the prostitute of Jericho, condemned to total destruction, becomes a significant link in the royal line of David and a progenitor of the Messiah. This is what God is able to accomplish through faith, even if it might be only the size of a mustard seed (Matt. 17:20, Luke 17:6).

“And her [Rahab’s] conversion was not an isolated case of God’s mercy toward idolaters who acknowledged His divine authority. In the midst of the land a numerous people—the Gibeonites—renounced their heathenism and united with Israel, sharing in the blessings of the covenant.

“No distinction on account of nationality, race, or caste, is recognized by God. He is the Maker of all mankind. All men are of one family by creation, and all are one through redemption. Christ came to demolish every wall of partition, to throw open every compartment of the temple courts, that every soul may have free access to God. His love is so broad, so deep, so full, that it penetrates everywhere. It lifts out of Satan’s influence those who have been deluded by his deceptions, and places them within reach of the throne of God, the throne encircled by the rainbow of promise. In Christ there is neither Jew nor Greek, bond nor free.”—Ellen G. White, _Prophets and Kings_, pp. 369, 370.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Discuss the whole question of “second chances” (and more) and how we are to extend them to others. At the same time, how can we also be careful not to abuse this concept? Think, for example, about a woman in an abusive relationship, in which she is counseled to keep going back (“grace”), only in some cases for the abuse to continue? How do we find the right balance here?`

`Discuss Rahab as a model of faith. How can we appreciate the openness of people to God, even if their lifestyle is far from the biblical ideal? How is it possible to appreciate their faith while not condoning some of their practices?`

`Joshua managed to combine justice and grace in a practical way in order to solve the predicament caused by the deceit of the Gibeonites and through his own negligence in not consulting the Lord. Think of a situation in your life that requires both justice and grace. What are some practical ways of merging the two?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Daughters of God_, “Rahab,” pp. 35, 36.\
_To Be Like Jesus_, “When in Trial, Review God’s Great Mercy,” July 21, p. 215.