---
title:  The One Who Comes in the Lord’s Name
date:   24/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 23; Psalm 22; Psalm 89:27-32; Psalm 2; Psalm 110:4-7; Hebrews 7:20-28.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The stone that the builders rejected became the cornerstone [the most important stone in the building]. The Lord made this happen, and we think it is wonderful!” (Psalm 118:22, 23, ERV).

The book of Psalms tells us about Jesus and His work for God. In the Book of Psalms, we can read about almost everything Jesus will do to save us.

What topics about Jesus does the Book of Psalms include? The Book of Psalms teaches us that (1) Jesus is God. (2) Jesus is also God’s Son. (3) Jesus is the Good Shepherd. (4) One of Jesus’ followers will offer Him to His enemies. (5) Jesus will be obedient. (6) Jesus’ bones won’t be broken. (7) Jesus will die. (8) Jesus will wake up from the dead. (9) He will go to heaven. (10) He will be our Helper. (11) He is the King. The poets wrote about these topics in the Book of Psalms hundreds of years before Jesus came to this earth.

Jesus talked to His followers on the road to Emmaus about the Book of Psalms (Luke 24:44). Now we can understand why Jesus did that. He wanted His followers to find proof in the Book of Psalms and in the rest of the Bible that showed who He was.

Psalms 24, 45, 72, and 101 show that Jesus is our King and Judge. Psalms 88 and 102 are prayers that show the things Jesus suffers as one of us. In the Book of Psalms, we read Jesus’ prayer for God to save the human family.