---
title:  Jesus, Our Shepherd
date:   25/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 23; Psalm 28:9; Psalm 80:1; Psalm 78:52, 53; Psalm 79:13; and Psalm 100:3. How is the relationship between the Lord and His people shown in these verses?`

The Book of Psalms teaches us that the Lord is the same as a shepherd. God’s people are His sheep. This word picture helps us understand how God takes care of His people. The people depend on God to give them everything they need. This word picture shows us the loving relationship between God and His people. Shepherds lived with their flocks and cared for each sheep. God owns the flock. The sheep are His because He gave them life (Psalm 95:6, 7; Psalm 100:3) and because He made them a promise (Hebrews 13:20).

In Psalm 80:1, we read about the Shepherd who leads Joseph the same as a flock. In this word picture, Joseph is a symbol for Israel. This word picture of the Shepherd leading Joseph helps us remember the wonderful promise that Jacob gave Joseph about Israel. The poet uses this word picture as a way of asking God to keep this wonderful promise to His people (Genesis 49:24).

In Bible times, kings were the shepherds of their people (2 Samuel 5:2). Sad to say, human kings often did not take care of their people as well as Jesus took care of people. That is why Jesus is named the Good Shepherd.

`Read John 10:11-15. What does Jesus, the Good Shepherd, say about Himself in these verses?`

Jesus says that His sheep know His voice (John 10:4, 27). To this day, shepherds in the Middle East can call their sheep to come to them. When the sheep hear their shepherd’s voice, they separate from other sheep who are not part of their flock. Then the sheep follow their shepherd. At times, God’s flock suffers hard times. They know these experiences are a sign that the Lord is not happy with them. But the Good Shepherd never leaves them. Jesus always searches for His lost sheep to save them. This powerful picture shows us God’s love for His people. God is willing to die for His sheep (John 10:11, 15). Jesus, the Shepherd, becomes a Lamb, to save His sheep (John 1:29).