---
title:  The Suffering Savior
date:   26/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 22 and Psalm 118:22. What did the people do to the One who came to save them?`

Many Psalms talk about the Suffering Savior and His feelings of pain and loneliness (Psalm 42; Psalm 88; Psalm 102). Psalm 22 tells us about Jesus’ death. Jesus prayed the words of Psalm 22:1 on the cross (Matthew 27:46).

Jesus and His Father loved each other very much. They were One in heart and mind (John 1:1, 2; John 10:30). So, Jesus suffered deeply when our sins separated Him from His Father. But suffering couldn’t destroy the love between Them. When the Father turned His face away from Jesus on the cross, Jesus trusted Himself more fully to the Father.

“Jesus was our Substitute. Jesus accepted the guilt of our sins. He became sin for us to save us from the punishment of breaking God’s law. Jesus felt in His heart the guilt of sin from the whole human family. God’s anger against sin filled Jesus’ heart with fear and wonder.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, pages 753, adapted.

Psalm 22 uses animal symbols: strong bulls, roaring lions, and dogs. These animals show the people’s hate for the Savior during His final hours on the cross. The Savior is compared to a helpless worm that can’t hurt anyone. Psalm 22 tells us how the crowd at the cross made fun of Jesus when He cried out to His Father (Psalm 22:1, 8; Matthew 27:43). The soldiers divided Jesus’ clothes (Psalm 22:18; Matthew 27:35). The people thought that Jesus was the same as a worm. They wanted to crush or destroy Him. They didn’t know that He would become the same as the most important stone in the Temple (Psalm 118:22). He would make a new way for sinners to come to God.

The same Savior that the people rejected became the hope of God’s people when He woke up from the dead (Matthew 21:42; Acts 4:10-12). Jesus suffered when the humans He came to save rejected Him. But God honored His Son. God made Jesus the Head of His church (Ephesians 2:20-22; 1 Peter 2:4-8). Anyone who rejects Jesus rejects God’s plan to save sinners. We must fall on the Rock and be saved. Or the Rock will fall on us and break us (Isaiah 8:14; Matthew 21:44).

`Jesus suffered for you. How should that make you feel about sin?`