---
title:  Jesus Keeps His Promise Forever
date:   27/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What is the promise with David about? Read Psalm 89:27-32, 38-46 and Psalm 132:10-12 for the answers.`

God made a special promise to David. God promised to support David’s future sons and to bless Israel forever (2 Samuel 7:5-16; Psalm 89:1-4, 19-37; Psalm 132:12-18). God agreed to keep His promise forever if the king obeyed God. Sad to say, the best of kings are not always loyal to God. In Psalm 89, the poet is sad because the people have lost the blessings that God promised to David. Did God reject Israel forever? Of course not!

Yes, God’s anger shows His people how He feels about sin (Psalm 38:1; Psalm 74:1). But God’s anger doesn’t continue forever. His everlasting love forgives people’s sins when they confess their guilt. While God is angry, He shows His people that He is upset with them. The people learn that sin leads to suffering. They understand that sin is terrible (Psalm 89:38-46). They know that God’s anger will not continue forever (Psalm 89:46). When the people remember that God always keeps His promise, they remember His mercy. Then their hearts fill with hope that God remembers them (Psalm 89:47, 50).

In short, we may fail God. But God never fails us. We can trust in His promises to save us because of Jesus.

Jesus is the Son of David and the Savior (Matthew 1:1; Hebrews 1:8). Jesus “rules over [controls] everything that has been made” (Colossians 1:15, ERV). Colossians 1:15 helps us remember Psalm 89:27, which says: “I will make him my firstborn son [first son born in a family]. He will be the greatest [most powerful] king on earth” (ICB).

Who is the “firstborn son” in Psalm 89:27? Is the poem talking about King David? No, because David was the 8th child that his parents had, and not the first (1 Samuel 16:10, 11). The words “firstborn son” are talking about Jesus. The words show us that God gave Jesus special honor (Colossians 1:16, 20-22). When Jesus woke up from the dead, God made Jesus the most powerful King over the whole earth (Acts 2:30, 31).

`Read Colossians 1:16, 20-22. What do these verses teach us about Jesus? Who was He? What did He do for us?`