---
title:  The Everlasting King
date:   28/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 2; Psalm 110:5, 6; and Psalm 89:4, 13-17. What do these verses teach us about Jesus our King?`

The Book of Psalms shows us a picture of God as the Savior’s Father. This picture helps us remember the special celebration in Israel when a man was made a king. God adopted the king as His own son and made a promise with the king (Psalm 2:7; Psalm 89:26-28). Psalm 2:7 tells us that the Savior will wake up from the dead and make a new and everlasting promise with His people (Acts 13:33-39; Hebrews 1:5). Psalm 2:7 also tells us that Jesus will be the High Priest or spiritual leader of His people (Hebrews 5:5). The Savior sits at God’s right side. This place of honor shows that Jesus is all-powerful. He has control over all the earth (Psalm 110:1; Acts 7:55, 56).

When the worldwide war between God and Satan ends, God will put all of Jesus’ enemies under His control (Psalm 110:2; Psalm 2:9). Before this happens, evil kings are given a chance to confess their sins and worship the Savior (Psalm 2:10-12).

In Daniel 7, we see a picture of the future after Jesus wins the fight against His enemies. At the time, Jesus’ kingdom is set up on the earth. Daniel tells us that Jesus’ kingdom is an everlasting kingdom (Daniel 7:27). Because of the Cross, we can trust this promise.

God promises a blessing to everyone who trusts in King Jesus (Psalm 2:12). God’s people are filled with joy because their Savior is also their King. He is a holy king, and His kingdom is holy, too (Psalm 89:15-17).

`We know that good will win in the end. Evil will lose. God will be fair. He will end pain and suffering forever. How should this Bible truth make us feel now when evil often looks as if it is winning the fight against good?`