---
title:  Jesus, Our Spiritual Leader
date:   29/02/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Jesus is our High Priest or spiritual leader (Psalm 110:4-7). What makes His work as Priest for us so special? What hope does His work as Priest in heaven give us?`

The Lord makes His people a special promise (Hebrews 6:18). Jesus will be their King (Psalm 110:1-3) and High Priest, or spiritual leader, forever (Psalm 110:4-7). This promise shows us God’s mercy. Our sins continue to separate us from God. But God made us a promise. His promise can’t change. His mercy is proof that He will keep His promise to His people when they confess their sins to Him (Exodus 32:14; Psalm 106:45).

God’s oath is special because He promises that the Savior is both a King and a Priest (Psalm 110:4). Israel’s kings weren’t allowed to serve as priests (Numbers 8:19; 2 Chronicles 26:16-21). When the Bible says that kings or people brought offerings to the priests, the priests were the ones who offered the animals to God. Psalm 110 says that the Savior King is different from the rest of Israel’s kings and priests. Jesus is a Priest much the same as Melchizedek. Melchizedek was both the king of Salem (an early name for Jerusalem) and the priest of God (Genesis 14:18-20). Does the Old Testament say anywhere else that King David or any other king of Israel was a king and priest the same as Melchizedek? We only read about that in Psalm 110. This Psalm talks about a special king-priest in Israel’s history who can be only one Person: Jesus.

`Read Hebrews 7:20-28. Why should Jesus’ work as High Priest give us hope and fill our hearts with trust?`

Jesus is both King and everlasting Priest. So, He is better than any other human priest or king. Jesus serves us in heaven’s temple. Sin and death can’t end His work the way sin and death ended the work of human priests. So, Jesus can go to God and get help for His people forever. Jesus’ work as our loving High Priest gives us hope in God (Hebrew 6:19, 20). We can trust that Jesus, our King and High Priest, will end evil in our hearts and also on this earth. Jesus will always keep the promise in Psalm 2:6-9: He will judge every leader and people group on earth.