---
title:  Additional thought
date:   01/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “God With Us,” pages 19-26, in _The Desire of Ages_.

Ellen G. White explains how Jesus joined the human family. “Jesus became Human. As a Human, Jesus touched human hearts. As God, Jesus made a way for us to go to God’s throne. Jesus was the Son of Man. He gave us an example of how we should obey God. As God’s Son, Jesus gives us the strength to obey God. Jesus Himself talked with Moses from the burning bush on Horeb. Jesus said to Moses: ‘ “I AM WHO I AM.” When you go to the Israelites, tell them, “I AM” sent me to you’ Exodus 3:14 [ERV]. The Lord’s Name was the same as a promise. When Jesus gave Moses His Name, I AM, He gave him His promise to save Israel. So, when Jesus came to this earth in a human body, He announced that He was the I AM. Jesus is the Child of Bethlehem. He is the Savior whose heart was empty of all pride. This same Jesus is God who came in a human body. 1 Timothy 3:16. To us, Jesus says, ‘I AM the Good Shepherd.’ ‘I AM the living Bread.’ ‘I AM the Way, the Truth, and the Life.’ ‘God gives Me control over all heaven and earth.’ John 10:11; John 6:51; John 14:6; Matthew 28:18. I AM the hope in your heart that tells you I will keep every promise. I AM; don’t be afraid.”—_The Desire of Ages_, pages 24, 25, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How did God show His people that He will keep His promise, even when they show no faith in Him? What hope does this thought give us today when we fail God and fall into sin?`

`Jesus is a special High Priest or spiritual leader. He is a High Priest much the same as Melchizedek. How does this Bible truth give us faith to believe that Jesus can save His people from sin?`

`Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John show us how Jesus kept the promises about the Savior in the Book of Psalms. How does this idea help us trust in the Bible?`

`Jesus said, “ ‘All authority [control] in heaven and on earth is given to me’ ” (Matthew 28:18, ERV). What hope do these words give us?`