---
title:  Paul's Deep Sorrow
date:   03/12/2017
---

“ ‘ “You will be to Me a nation [country] of religious leaders, a holy nation.” These are the words you will speak to the people of Israel’ ” (Exodus 19:6, NLV)

God needed a people who would tell other people about the Good News. At that time, many people on the earth were worshiping false gods and bowing down to statues. Spiritual darkness was everywhere on the earth. God chose the Israelites to share the Good News. God showed Israel His love. God planned for Israel to become an example to other nations. God wanted Israel to lead those nations to Him. The animals offered for the sins of the people in the Jewish plan of worship would point everyone on earth to look to Jesus to save them. God planned for Israel to grow larger and larger. Then God would bless Israel more and more. God wanted Israel to spread out until their kingdom included all the people on the earth.

`We fail God all the time. But what important idea is Paul sharing in Romans 9:1–12 about God’s loyalty to us?`

Paul shows us in these verses that the promise made to Israel had not failed completely. God continues to work in some who are Jews. Another name for this group of Jews is a remnant. A remnant is a small piece of cloth left over from a larger roll of cloth. This small piece is a symbol for the Jews in whom God continues to work. Paul proves that the idea about a remnant is very important. Paul points to Israel’s history to show us that God always chooses carefully the people who help Him do His work on earth. We see that  (1) God did not choose all the children of Abraham to join in His special agreement, only Isaac’s children.  (2) God did not choose all of Isaac’s children, only Jacob’s.

What God’s choice shows us is that we are not saved because of who our ancestors are. You can come from the right family and belong to the right church, and be lost anyway. But faith shows us who is “born because of God’s promise” (Romans 9:8, NLV). We show this faith to other people when we love them.

`Read Romans 9:6. What important message can we find in this verse for ourselves as Adventists?`
