---
title:  Chosen
date:   04/12/2017
---

“It is written, ‘I chose Jacob instead of Esau’ (Malachi 1:2, 3)” (Romans 9:12, 13, NIrV).

We said earlier in the introduction to this week’s lesson that it is impossible to understand the meaning of Romans 9 until we first understand that Paul is not talking about the people God “chose” to save. Instead, Paul uses the word “chose” to mean the special work that God chooses some people to do. God chose Jacob to be the father of the people who would be God’s special group of witnesses to everyone on the earth. So, there is no hint at all in these verses in Romans that Esau could not be saved. God wanted Esau to be saved as much as He wants everyone to be saved.

`Read Romans 9:14, 15. How do the ideas in these verses connect with everything we just read?`

Again, we must understand that Paul is not talking about who is saved or not saved. God offers His mercy to everyone. Indeed, “He wants all people to be saved”  (1 Timothy 2:4, NIrV). “God offers to save all people” (Titus 2:11, NIrV). God can choose whole countries to have an important part in His work. Of course, these countries are free to refuse being a part of God’s work. But these countries cannot stop God’s choice from happening. So, this fact tells us that Esau could never be the person that the Savior would come from. And Esau never could have been the father of the chosen people.

In the end, God did not choose to shut Esau out from heaven for no reason. God’s gift of making us right with Him is free to everyone. God chose everyone to be saved, not lost (Ephesians 1:4, 5; 2 Peter 1:10). It is our own choices, and not God’s, that stop us from having everlasting life. Jesus died for every human. At the same time, God tells us in the Bible what we must do to have everlasting life: we must have faith in Jesus. Our faith leads to our being made right with God and to a life of obedience.

`Of all the awful things that could happen, why would the worst thing of all be letting sin, self, and our evil desires steal from us everything God promises us in Jesus?`
