---
title:  Mysteries
date:   05/12/2017
---

“ ‘For My thoughts are not your thoughts, and My ways are not your ways,’ says the Lord” (Isaiah 55:8, NLV). “ ‘Just as the heavens are higher than the earth, my thoughts and my ways are higher than yours’ ” (Isaiah 55:9, CEV).

`Read Romans 9:17–24. Think about what we have read so far. With that in mind, how should we understand Paul’s message to us in Romans 9:17–24?`

God meant for His act of freeing Israel from Egypt to be an example to everyone on the earth of His plan to free humans from sin and death. God did many miracles in Egypt before freeing His people from slavery. These powerful works were meant to show the Egyptians and the other nations around them that the God of Israel was indeed the true God. And these works were meant to be an invitation for these nations to stop worshiping their false gods and to come worship Him.

Clearly, the king of Egypt already made his choice against God. The king of Egypt was known as the Pharaoh. God made Pharaoh’s heart hard and stubborn. But God did not take away from Pharaoh the chance to be saved. Instead, God made Pharaoh stubborn so that Pharaoh would not let Israel go free. God turned Pharaoh’s heart against letting Israel go. But God did not turn Pharaoh’s heart against wanting to be saved. After all, Jesus died for Pharaoh, just as He died for Moses, Aaron, and all the children of Israel.

The important idea for us to take away from our reading  of Romans 9 is that we have a limited understanding of God and how He works on earth and in our lives. So, how can we expect to understand all of God’s ways when nature holds mysteries we cannot understand? After all, it was only in the past 171 years that doctors learned it might be a good idea to wash their hands before operating! And who knows what other things we might learn about in the future that will show just how little we know today?

`We do not always understand God’s ways. But Jesus came to show us God (John 14:9). So, how can knowing who God is help us to stay loyal to Him during times of trouble that seem very unfair and hard to understand?`
