---
title:  My People
date:   06/12/2017
---

In Romans 9:25, Paul shares a verse from Hosea 2:23. And in Romans 9:26, Paul shares a verse from Hosea 1:10. The story behind the verses in Hosea is that God told Hosea to “ ‘marry a woman who has sex with anyone she wants’ ” (Hosea 1:2, NIrV). Hosea’s awful marriage would be a living symbol for God’s connection to the nation of Israel. Israel had not been loyal to God. The people broke their connection to God by worshiping false gods. Hosea and his wife had three children. The first two children had names that showed that (1) God had turned away from Israel and (2) that God was punishing Israel for worshiping false gods. Hosea and his wife had a third child. This child’s name was *Loammi* (Hosea 1:9). *Loammi* meant “not my people.”

But Hosea said that the time would come when God no longer would punish His people. Instead, God would give riches to His people again. God would take away Israel’s false gods. God would make an agreement with Israel. (Read Hosea 2:11–19.) Then the people who were *Loammi*, or “not [God’s] people,” would become *Ammi*, “my people.” In Paul’s time, the *Ammi* were “the ones [God] chose. He did not choose only Jews. He also chose some [people] from among the people who are not Jews” (Romans 9:24, NLV). This verse shows us that the Good News was meant for everyone. No wonder we as Seventh-day Adventists believe our work for God includes the work shown in Revelation 14:6: “Then I saw another angel flying in the heavens. He was carrying the Good News that lasts forever. He was preaching to every nation and to every family group and to the people of every language and to all the people of the earth” (NLV). Today, and in Paul’s day, this Good News must be preached everywhere.

`What important message do we find in Romans 9:25–29? What hope does Paul offer to his readers?`

Many Jews rejected the message of the Good News. This sad fact caused Paul to say, “My sadness never ends” (Romans 9:2, NIrV). But at least there was a remnant. You will recall that a remnant is a small piece of cloth left over from a larger roll of cloth. This small piece of cloth is a symbol for the Jews in whom God continues to work. So, God does have a remnant among the Jews. And God’s promises do not fail the Jews, even when humans fail God and each other.
