---
title:  A Rock That Makes Them Fall
date:   07/12/2017
---

“The people who are not Jews were not made right with God by the Law. They were made right with God because they put their trust in Him. The Jews tried to be right with God by obeying the Law, but they did not become right with God. Why? Because they did not put their trust in God” (Romans 9:30–32, NLV).

`What message is there for us in these verses? More important, how can we take this message and put it to use in our own lives today? How can we avoid making the same mistakes in our lives that Israel made in their lives?`

Paul uses words in these verses that no one can misunderstand. He explains to the Jews why they are missing out on what God wishes them to have. Notice that the non-Jews whom God accepted had not even been searching for God to accept them in the first place! Instead, these non-Jews lived only to make themselves happy. But then they heard the Good News. They accepted its message. And God announced these people were made right with Him.

The problem with the Jews in Paul’s time was that they “tripped over” the “Stone” (Jesus) (read Romans 9:33). Some Jews, but not all of them (read Acts 2:41), refused to accept Jesus as the Messiah. The Messiah was the One whom God chose to save His people from sin. But Jesus was not the Messiah the Jews were looking for. So, the Jews turned their backs on Jesus when He came.

Before Romans 9 ends, Paul shares another verse from the Old Testament: “The Holy Writings say, ‘See! I put in Jerusalem a Stone that people will trip over. It is a Rock that will make them fall. But the person who puts his trust in the Rock (Christ [Jesus]) will not be put to shame’ ” (Romans 9:33, NLV). Here, Paul shows again how important faith is in God’s plan to save us (read also 1 Peter 2:6–8). A Rock that will make people fall? Yes. But at the same time, any-one who believes in Jesus will not be ashamed. For many people, Jesus is a Stone that trips people up. But for the people who know and love Him, Jesus is a different Rock. He is “ ‘the rock that saves’ ” (Psalm 89:26, NLV).

`Has Jesus ever been to you a Rock that makes you fall? If yes, what were you doing that made you fall? How did you get up again? How has Jesus been the  Rock that saves you?`
