---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   08/12/2017
---

“The Bible talks about how God chooses some people to be saved. Many have thought that this idea points to the future life and means that God chooses these people to have a lot of happiness in heaven. But this idea is not what the Bible means. Instead, the Bible shows us that God chose man to accept the gift of being saved. God chose man to work with God’s plan to save him. Man must do this work with a trembling heart filled with love and respect for God. God chose man to put on the armor [battle suit] of God. God chose man to fight the good fight of faith. God chose man to use the weapons God put in man’s reach to fight against every evil desire of man’s body. Satan tries to make man his slave. Satan wants to steal man’s gift of everlasting life. So, God chose man to watch out and pray. God chose man to search the Bible. God chose man to avoid giving in to sin. God chose man to show faith every minute of his life. And God chose man to obey every word that comes from God. What will happen if man chooses to do these things? Then man will be more than someone who knows the Word of God [the Bible]. Man also will be some-one who does everything that God asks. This teaching is what the Bible means when it speaks about God’s choosing us.”—Ellen G. White, *Testimonies [Messages] to Ministers [Pastors] and Gospel [Good News] Workers*, pages 453, 454, adapted.  

**Discussion Questions**

`1. Some Christians teach that God chooses some people to be saved and other people not to be saved. The Christians who think this way believe that we have no choice in the decision. These Christians say that God made this choice for you before you were born. What if you chose to be good every second of your life? But God chose not to save you. What would happen? Then you would be punished with everlasting death. For many people, this punishment means burning in hell forever. So, these people believe that the people whom God chooses not to save in this life will spend the next one burning forever in the fires of hell. What is wrong with this thinking? How is our view on the topic different?`

`2. How is the work God gave to Seventh-day Adventists the same as the work God gave to Israel in Bible times? What is the same about this work? What is different? How are we doing better at our work than Israel did? Or are we doing worse? Explain.`
