---
title:  Rest First
date:  16/07/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 15:1–11**

**Rest First**

After a long, hard day of work, we find ourselves feeling entitled to some rest. Our mindset tends to consider rest as something earned as a reward for labor. This thinking seems to find support in the creation narrative. God works for six days and then rests on the Sabbath day. And are we not called to follow His example?

On closer examination, though, we find that Adam and Eve’s experience differed in one particular. Whereas the creation story begins with God working, Adam and Eve’s life begins with resting. After creating Adam, “the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to tend and keep it” (Gen. 2:15). Although he had received his assignment, Adam would not begin his work until after the Sabbath. Thus, in the case of humanity, God designed that a fruitful life would begin with resting in Him. Rest is not earned. It is a gift from God.

The Sabbath also laid the foundation that while Adam must work, his work is not the ultimate source of his sustenance. Adam and Eve were able to breathe, eat, and drink before they lifted a finger in labor. It was God who provided for them. And the Sabbath was ever to remind them that they were dependent upon God.

#### inScribe

Write out John 15:1–11 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out John 2:4, 5. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `