---
title:  Know Your Place
date:  17/07/2022
---

#### inGest

In Barbados there is a saying, “yuh bes kno yuh place,” which means, “you had better know your place.” The saying is directed to those who are disrespectful or who have temporarily forgotten their proper place in society.

One’s place in society is invariably determined by the place of others. This is most surely the case with God and humanity, or with God and creation. And the Sabbath commandment has everything to do with this. In the entire universe, insofar as the Bible is concerned, there are only two ways to exist: as Creator or as part of creation. This is both logical and theological, because the Creator is “before all things” (Col. 1:17). Indeed, “all things were made by him” (John 1:3, KJV). The Bible further states that “by him all things consist” (Col. 1:17, KJV). “Consist” may be better translated as “hold together.” All of creation depends upon God! Not the other way around!

The  title of “created” applies to everything in creation except the Creator. The angel Gabriel is as created as the living mote in the sunbeam or the leviathan in the waters. If Gabriel and the mote exchanged places they would still be created! Nothing in creation can escape the restriction of having been created. Therefore, any attempt to escape the “created” brand is really an attempt to be God, for there are only two choices: Creator and creation.

The Sabbath commandment is God’s way of telling unfallen and fallen beings, “Know your place.” The commandment accomplishes this by reminding creation of God’s proper place. As His place is understood and respected, His creatures then recognize and accept their place. Recognition of and dependence upon God is the very principle of the Sabbath commandment. This universal principle undermines the popular earthly concept of “the self-made man.” There is no such thing. “It is he that hath made us and not we ourselves” (Ps. 100:3, KJV). “Accepted by the will, received into the soul,” (White, Education, 126.) this Sabbath principle of dependence guards against pride and self-sufficiency. It is a weekly reminder to “Know your place.”

**Memorize your favorite verse in John 15:1–11. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`Why is it important to have a correct understanding of your identity?`

`What role, if any, does an independent spirit play in the life of a Christian?`