---
title:  Totally Dependent
date:  18/07/2022
---

#### inTerpret

The Sabbath principle (recognition of and dependence on the Creator) existed before the Sabbath day was introduced in Eden. Ellen White writes, “After the transgression of Adam the principles of the law were not changed, but were definitely arranged and expressed to meet man in his fallen condition.” (Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1958), 80.) Laws enable finite minds to comprehend and observe principles. Speed limits are laws; unselfish regard for the well-being of others is the principle.

The reality is that without God, nothing would exist. “He is before all things, and by him all things consist” (Col. 1:17, KJV). God stands singularly as the uncaused cause of everything in existence. Whether it is acknowledged or not, then, everything is dependent upon Him for its existence. From the blade of grass to the majestic lion to, yes, even the unbeliever—all are dependent upon God for life! “He makes His sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust” (Matt. 5:45). Without God, there is no life.

At the forbidden tree, the serpent insinuated that it is indeed possible to live a life outside of God’s will. He told Eve that if she disobeyed God by eating the fruit, she would not die. But sin caused a rift between humanity and God (Isa. 59:1, 2). Even after they had sinned, though, it is the omniscient God who came looking for Adam and Eve who were hiding from His presence in shame (Gen. 3:9–11). They were hiding from the One who was their source of life.

In our sinful state we separate ourselves from those things that engender life, even from life itself. Dependence upon God did not result from sin. It is endemic to the Creator-creature relationship. By attempting to become a god (Gen. 3:5), humanity sought to live independent of God (which is an ontological impossibility). Nothing can exist independent of God.

Christ came to restore life to His fallen creation (John 10:10). Life, and one that is fruitful, can only be found as we remain in Christ (John 15:5, 6).

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`To what extent does your native culture valorize independence?`