---
title:  All These and Those Are Mine
date:  20/07/2022
---

#### inVite

Upon his return from a successful military campaign to deliver his nephew Lot, Abraham met Melchizedek, king of Salem and priest of the Most High God. In blessing Abraham, Melchizedek said, “Blessed be Abram of the most high God, possessor of heaven and earth” (Gen. 14:19, KJV). Shortly thereafter, the cowardly king of Sodom (who had fled from the invaders who captured Lot) made a special appeal to Abraham. In responding, Abraham said, “I have lift up mine hand unto the Lord, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth” (Gen. 14:22, KJV). This well-deserved title of universal possessor is similarly expressed by Paul: “For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him, and for him” (Col. 1:16, KJV).

By the unerring inspiration of the Spirit of truth, the very first verse of the Bible, creation’s summary statement, declares, “In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth” (Gen. 1:1, KJV). Heaven and earth rightfully belong to God because He made them. This includes “all that in them is” (Exod. 20:11, KJV). Animate and inanimate, animal and human life are God’s.

In the six-day span of creation, God made humanity after everything else. Neither Adam nor Eve could lay claim to anything they saw. Not a lowly blade of grass. Not a molecule of air. Not a hair follicle! This is essentially the argument God used to put Job in his place: “Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth?” (Job 38:4, KJV). Job, like Adam, had nothing to do with creation. “And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very good” (Gen. 1:31, KJV).

Humanity, and everything that lives and exists, is indebted to God. “He is caring for us every moment; He keeps the living machinery in action; if we were left to run it for one moment, we should die. We are absolutely dependent upon God.” (Ellen G. White, Counsels on Diet and Foods (Washington, DC: Review and Herald, 1938), 56.) This indebtedness should underlie all plans and propositions.

Is there a connection in this to Sabbath observance? Most assuredly. The Sabbath is a weekly reminder that existence apart from God is impossible. What a lesson in humility! To the entrepreneur, Ellen White writes, “That which lies at the foundation of business integrity and of true success is the recognition of God’s ownership. The Creator of all things, He is the original proprietor. We are His stewards.” (White, Education, 137.) And to the student she counsels, “Every youth should be impressed with the fact that he is not his own; that his strength, his time, his talents, belong to God.” (Ellen G. White, Historical Sketches of the Foreign Missions of the Seventh-day Adventists (Basle: Imprimerie Polyglotte, 1886), 285.) To the ruler, the Bible says, “For there is no power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God” (Rom. 13:1, KJV).

The basis of this ownership is creation. Mankind made nothing and therefore is indebted to God for everything.

The Sabbath declares it. Sabbath-keeping celebrates it!

` `