---
title:  Spiritual Gifts
date:   01/08/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
1 Corinthians 12:1–6, 12–31; 1 Corinthians 13:1–7; 1 Peter 4:8–11; Ephesians 4:11–13.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Love is the thing you should want more than anything else. But you should also want other things the Spirit gives. You should want very much to be able to speak words from God” (1 Corinthians 14:1, WE).

When we compare the church to the human body, we can learn many things. The body has many different parts. In the same way, the church has many different members. Every member does different things to help the church work. Every member has different spiritual gifts, too. These gifts help the church work together in peace and love. The peace and love in the church show the peace and love that are in God’s heart.

This week, we will look at 1 Corinthians 12–14 and its teaching about spiritual gifts. These chapters are part of a bigger set of chapters about correct Christian behavior in the church (1 Corinthians 11–14). Paul talks about the problem with meetings that are out of control. His answer to this problem is spiritual gifts. The gifts help the church “become strong” (Ephesians 4:12, EASY). In short, God gave the church different gifts to help unite it.

For sure, Paul is thinking about the problem in the church of separation into different groups (1 Corinthians 1–4). The answer to this problem is to become one in Jesus. Now Paul adds to this idea with his teachings about the gifts. Our becoming one in Jesus and with the Spirit is the only way to help us avoid separation in the church.