---
title:  Different Gifts For Different Members
date:   02/08/2026
---

Paul starts a new topic in 1 Corinthians 12:1. The word “now” (ERV) shows that Paul is going to talk about something new in this verse. That new topic is spiritual gifts.

In 1 Corinthians 12:2, 3, Paul says that the Spirit’s first gift is faith in Jesus as Lord. In New Testament times, when people said that Jesus was Lord, that was the same thing as saying that the King of Rome was not Lord (Acts 17:7; also read John 19:12, 15). So, the person who said that Jesus was Lord could be punished with death. That’s because the King of Rome was worshiped as a god. Anyone who said that the King of Rome wasn’t a god was guilty of a crime against the Roman government.

Both Jesus and Paul taught that faith in God is a gift from the Holy Spirit. For sure, faith is the most basic gift. So, we shouldn’t be surprised that faith is first on the list in 1 Corinthians 13:13. Paul says faith is a spiritual gift in 1 Corinthians 12:9. But faith isn’t the only gift. There are many other gifts, too. The Holy Spirit gives different gifts to different people. “He [the Holy Spirit] decides which gifts he will give to each person” (1 Corinthians 12:11, EASY).

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:1–6. What is Paul talking about in these verses?`

Paul says, “The Holy Spirit helps us with different kinds [types] of gifts. But it is the same Spirit who gives them. We serve the Lord in different ways, but all of us serve the same Lord. We do different kinds [types] of work. But it is the same God who helps us all to work in different ways” (1 Corinthians 12:4–6, EASY). Do you see from these verses that God gave spiritual gifts to the church to help us work together? When we work together, we show God’s love and peace (also read Ephesians 4:8–11). Yes, the Spirit gives gifts to Christians. But God gives us the strength to serve Jesus in the church (1 Corinthians 12:5, 6). The Holy Spirit gives each Christian gifts (1 Corinthians 12:11). But we must use the gifts to help the church as a whole.

`The church must work together in peace and love. Why is this work so important to the church?`