---
title:  One Church, Different Gifts
date:   03/08/2026
---

As we saw already in 1 Corinthians 12:4–6, Paul talks about how God makes us one in Jesus. At the same time, Paul also talks about how each church member is different. So, the Holy Spirit gives different gifts to different members. Paul wants us to understand that we are one church with different gifts. God gives different gifts to members in the church to help it to become one with Jesus.

The different spiritual gifts show us the love and peace in God’s heart. The Father is one Person. The Son is another Person. The Holy Spirit is another Person. All Three are God. The Father, the Son, and Holy Spirit all have separate personalities. But they work together to grow the church and give it strength to do its work (1 Corinthians 12:4–6; Ephesians 4:11–13).

`Read 1 Corinthians 12:12–31. What does Paul compare the church to in these verses? Why is this symbol so powerful? How does the body with its different parts help us understand the church with its many members?`

One important idea in 1 Corinthians 12 is that the body’s parts are different from each other (1 Corinthians 12:15–20). But each part depends on the rest of the parts (1 Corinthians 12:21–26). The feet depend on the eyes to help them see where they must walk. The eyes can’t touch anything. But the hands can. So, the eyes must depend on the hands to feel objects or pick things up. Some parts of the body may seem to be weak (1 Corinthians 12:22) or not as useful or important as other parts (1 Corinthians 12:23). But this idea is meant to teach us how much we must depend on each other and work together. All members are necessary to the church (1 Corinthians 12:22).

Sad to say, some church members thought that certain gifts were better than other gifts. Paul didn’t want the Corinthians to make this mistake. So, he asked them to remember to do everything with love. When we do things with love in our hearts, that is “the best way of all” (1 Corinthians 12:31, NIrV). Whatever our gift is, we must use it wisely and with love. Then we will make God happy.

`Look at the lists of spiritual gifts in 1 Corinthians 12:8–10, 28; Romans 12:6–8; and Ephesians 4:11. What is your spiritual gift? How can you use it to help the church?`