---
title:  The Best Way
date:   04/08/2026
---

“Love is not the same as every other gift from God. Love is a very special gift. Love helps us to use all the other gifts in the right way.”—Carl P. Cosaert, “1 Corinthians,” Andrews Bible Commentary: New Testament (Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press, 2022), page 1643, adapted.

`How is love connected with the spiritual gifts? Read 1 Corinthians 13:1–7 and 1 Peter 4:8–11 for the answer.`

We must have love to use the spiritual gifts correctly (read 1 Corinthians 13). Paul says that God’s love must control us. Or the spiritual gifts in 1 Corinthians 12 are useless. The Holy Spirit gives some people the gift of saying wise words. The Spirit gives other people the gift of knowing what is true (1 Corinthians 12:8). To some people, the Spirit gives the gift of faith. This faith is so strong that it can move mountains (1 Corinthians 13:2). But these gifts have no worth if we don’t have love. What if a person can speak many different languages but doesn’t have love in his heart? Then the gift of languages is just noise (1 Corinthians 13:1). In the same way, the important gift of getting messages from God is nothing if we don’t have love (1 Corinthians 13:2).

In 1 Corinthians 13:4–7, Paul talks about what love is and what it is not. Also, he talks about what love does and what it does not do. Love is more than a feeling. Love is an action. Paul says that love is patient. Love is kind. Love is happy when good things happen. Love always hopes for what is best. When our hearts are filled with love, we won’t brag. We won’t be jealous. Our hearts will be empty of all pride. We won’t be mean and nasty. We won’t try to get our own way. We won’t get upset easily. We won’t hate people or be happy when bad things happen to them.

1 Corinthians 13 shows us the way we should behave when we use the gifts God gives us. Love is the answer to the wise use of our spiritual gifts. Paul includes faith and hope in the same list with love. But the most important of these three gifts is love (1 Corinthians 13:13).

`Why is love so important to our faith? How does our showing God’s love to other people help us better understand His love for us?`