---
title:  The Gift of Talking in Other Languages
date:   05/08/2026
---

In 1 Corinthians 12 and 14, Paul talks about the gift of talking in other languages. People with this spiritual gift can talk in languages they never studied before.

Paul talks about this gift in 1 Corinthians 12:8–10. (Also read 1 Corinthians 12:28, 30 and 1 Corinthians 13:1, 8.) Paul talks about this gift many times in 1 Corinthians 14. The Greek word for ‘language’ is _‘glossa_.’ Paul uses this word more than 20 times in 1 Corinthians 12–14 and 15 times in 1 Corinthians 14. Also, he uses the Greek word _‘heteroglossos_,’ which means “strange languages” (1 Corinthians 14:21, EASY). So, this topic matters to Paul. The church in Corinth used this gift in the wrong way. Many people started talking in different languages all at the same time during public worship! This problem caused trouble in the church (1 Corinthians 14:23, 27, 33, 40).

`What lessons did Paul teach about the gift of talking in other languages? Read 1 Corinthians 14:5, 13, 26, 27 and 1 Corinthians 12:10, 30 for the answer.`

When someone is talking in a different language, people in the church need to understand what the person is saying (1 Corinthians 14:9). If no one can understand, then the gift of speaking in other languages isn’t helpful to the church (1 Corinthians 14:6). So, Paul says that someone else needs to explain what is being said. Paul isn’t against the gift of talking in other languages. He is worried that the church thinks the gift is the most important gift. Then they may not care about having the gift of communicating special messages from God.

For sure, Paul wanted everyone in the church at Corinth to talk in other languages (1 Corinthians 14:5). But he didn’t expect that to happen (1 Corinthians 12:10). Today, some Christians teach that everyone must talk in a second or third ­language before they can get baptized. But these people don’t understand Paul’s teaching.

`Are there people in your church who learned a second language? How can they use this skill to share Jesus with other people? Also, how can this skill help us better understand the spiritual gift of talking in other languages?`