---
title:  The Gift of Special Messages
date:   06/08/2026
---

The gift of special messages from God is an important gift. Paul often talks about this gift before he talks about the gift of talking in other languages (1 Corinthians 12:10, 28; 1 Corinthians 13:8). Paul wants us to understand that the gift of special messages is very important.

`Why did God give the church spiritual gifts? Why did God give us the gift of special messages? Read Ephesians 4:11–13 and 1 Corinthians 14:3, 4 for the answers.`

The gift of special messages teaches the church how to live. This gift also gives the church hope and encourage­ment (1 Corinthians 14:3; compare with Acts 15:32). Special messages from God can be information about the future. Or they can be news from God to His people. In Acts 2:29–31 (compare with Amos 3:7), David is God’s special messenger. God shows David what will happen in the future. In Acts 15:32, Judas and Silas are named God’s special messengers. But their messages aren’t about what will happen in the future. Their messages encourage God’s people and make their faith strong.

In Ephesians 4:11–13, we learn that the spiritual gifts didn’t stop in New Testament times. The spiritual gifts should be in the church until Jesus comes back (Acts 2:39). How do we know if someone really is God’s special messenger? This person must pass the Bible test. This test has four rules: (1) The messenger’s words must come true (Deuteronomy 18:22; Jeremiah 28:8, 9). (2) The special message must fit with other special messages in the Bible (Deuteronomy 13:1–3; Isaiah 8:20). (3) The messenger’s life shows that Jesus lives in his heart (1 John 4:1–3). (4) Jesus warned us that false messengers do evil and say evil (Matthew 7:15–20). In the same way, you can tell true messengers from the things they say and do.

The book of Revelation shows us that the gift of special messages is an important part of God’s end-time church (Revelation 12:17; Revelation 19:10). As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe that God chose Ellen G. White to be His special messenger. We see the gift in her writings.

`Why do we, as a church, believe that Ellen G. White was God’s special messenger?`