---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   07/08/2026
---

Read Roswell F. Cottrell, “Spiritual Gifts,” pages 5–16, in Ellen G. White, Spiritual Gifts, volume 1.

“Go to work for the Lord. Trust in Him. He will go with you. He will help you touch hearts and change lives. Some workers will be wonderful speakers. Other workers will be excellent writers. God gives some workers the gift of prayer. To other workers, God gives the gift of singing. God gives some workers the special skill to explain the Bible so that people can understand it. Each gift is a powerful blessing from God. The Lord works together with the worker. God gives wise words to one worker. To another worker, God gives faith. But all these workers serve the same Master. He is in control of all the work. The different gifts help us to do the different types of work God gives us. ‘But all these ways are from the same God. God works in us all in everything we do’ (1 Corinthians 12:6 [ICB]).”—Ellen G. White, in Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, April 12, 1906, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think more about the spiritual gift of special messages from God. Why is this gift more important than the gift of talking in other languages if nobody can understand what is said? If you need to, read 1 Corinthians 14 again to review Paul’s teaching.`

`In class, talk about the life and work of Ellen G. White. Why do we, as a church, believe that she was a special messenger from God? How does God bless the church with this gift? What is the best way for the church to use this gift?`

`Think of three to five people who really love you. How do you know their love for you is real? What does your answer tell you about why Paul talked so much about love in his teaching about spiritual gifts?`

`For sure, a loving heart is very important. But is that the only thing a special messenger should have? What else do they need to have to be a real special messenger from God?`