---
title:  The Way of Life
date:   25/11/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Colossians 1:24–29**

**The Way of Life**

Early Adventist preaching emphasized the Second Coming, the sanctuary message in connection with the 2,300-day prophecy, the Sabbath, and the law of God. When visiting a new town, Adventist ministers often debated with the Sunday-keeping pastors over the law and the Sabbath. In their zeal to defend the law and the Sabbath, Jesus and the gospel were sometimes eclipsed. The focus on the law was so strong that Ellen White said, “we have preached the law until we are as dry as the hills of Gilboa” (The Review and Herald [March 11, 1890], para. 13).

Adventist evangelists at the time often used a painting called The Way of Life that included depictions of the law, the cross, and the tree of life. In the earliest versions, the law of God, not the cross, is at the center of the illustration, accurately depicting how Adventism at the time viewed the centrality of the law in the plan of salvation. In 1880, James White commissioned a new edition of the painting in which Jesus on the cross replaced the law at the center. The new painting illustrated a shift for Adventists. (To see these two illustrations, visit adventistreview.org/magazine-article/the-way-of-life/.) At the General Conference Session in 1888, two young preachers, A.T. Jones and E.J. Waggoner appealed to church leaders to embrace a more Christ-centered gospel message. However, some preachers and administrators felt that Jones and Waggoner were undermining the pillars of the Adventist message, especially the law and the Sabbath.

Ellen White was deeply concerned by the backlash that arose against Jones and Waggoner at the 1888 conference in Minneapolis. She wrote very strong letters to old pioneers such as Uriah Smith urging them not to resist the message. Jones and Waggoner presented little that was new, but they did call for a fresh perspective that emphasized Jesus and the gospel. In the years following 1888, Ellen White authored several books that clearly articulated the gospel of Jesus Christ: Steps to Christ (1892), Thoughts from the Mount of Blessings (1896), The Desire of Ages (1898), and Christ’s Object Lessons (1900). This week’s lesson will explore the meaning of the gospel when it gives us the promise of “Christ in you, the hope of glory” (Col. 1:27).  

#### inScribe

Write out Colossians 1:24–29 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `