---
title:  The Relationship Between Law and Faith
date:   26/11/2023
---

#### inGest

The debates leading up to 1888 were initially over the role the law plays in salvation. One passage of particular contention was Galatians 3:24, 25, which describes the law as the “tutor” that brings us to Christ. The question was whether this tutor and guide is the moral law (the Ten Commandments) or the ceremonial law (the Jewish sacrificial system). This question sparked huge debates and inspired many camp meeting sermons and magazine articles. Older preachers like Uriah Smith and G.I. Butler believed the tutor to be the ceremonial law, explaining that it was the sacrificial system that led to Jesus, whose sacrifice freed us from that very system (v. 25). Younger preachers such as A.T. Jones and E.J. Waggoner believed the tutor to be the moral law—the Ten Commandments—since they point out our sins and should cause us to turn to God for cleansing.

Many Adventists adamant believed that if the tutor is the moral law, people could use it to argue that the Ten Commandments and therefore the Sabbath have been done away with, because verse 25 says we are no longer under the tutor. When asked if the tutor was the moral law or the ceremonial law, Ellen White answered that it was both: “I am asked concerning the law in Galatians. What law is the schoolmaster to bring us to Christ? I answer: Both the ceremonial and the moral code of ten commandments” (Selected Messages, vol. 1 [1958], 233). It’s instructive to look back in Adventist history and reflect on issues that sparked such passionate debate at the time. Sometimes the issues we think are so significant do not turn out to be quite as consequential as we once thought. These realizations should cause us to reflect on the issues we debate in our churches today.

The focal point of the debates was the law in Galatians, but Jones’ and Waggoner’s primary burden lay elsewhere. They focused on showing the relationship between the law and faith, thereby demonstrating that it’s possible to live a Christ-centered, faith-filled, law-abiding life. Their message could be summarized as “Christ in you, the hope of glory” (Col. 1:27), which when understood correctly is the essence of how we ought to live our Christian lives. As we have previously noted, the focus of Adventist preaching up to this time was on the landmark doctrines of the church such as the Second Coming, the Sabbath, and the sanctuary, but church doctrine cannot be separated from the reality of the cross. It’s a proper understanding of what happened at the cross that helps us experience the practical aspects of our doctrinal foundations. Whenever the cross is separated from doctrinal understanding, practical Christianity suffers.

Paul wrote the epistle of Colossians to the church in Colossae, which was geographically very close to Laodicea. These two neighboring towns shared similar histories and cultures. Today, they are only separated by a few miles and therefore share the same climate and valley. When Paul wrote to believers in Colossae, he included believers in Laodicea, addressing them both as one audience, dealing with the same spiritual challenges (Col. 2:1; 4:13,15,16). The close connection between Colossae and Laodicea makes Paul’s letter to the Colossians especially applicable to God’s people today. Laodicea is the last of the seven churches in the book of Revelation and symbolizes God’s church in the last days (Rev. 3:14–22). Perhaps Jones and Waggoner were on to something very important when they drew the attention of the church to “Christ in you, the hope of glory” (Col. 1:27).

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`Are there any issues that you have given undue attention to that you feel you need to reprioritize?`

`How could the law in Galatians be seen as both the ceremonial and the moral law?`