---
title:  The Ultimate Aim
date:   27/11/2023
---

### inTerpret

Christians have many good aspirations. We wish to be kinder to others and Christlike in conduct. We desire to help the downtrodden and want to share truth. But even the best aspirations will fail when our ultimate goal is in any way secondary. The Christian’s ultimate purpose in everything is found in Colossians 1:27: “Christ in you.” The indwelling Christ is called a mystery in these verses because it is not naturally comprehended. Christ in us describes a spiritual reality rather than a physical one. That the spirit and character of Christ can live in and through broken, sinful human beings like us is the great mystery that captures the attention of the world.

Colossians 1:26–28 makes it clear that God is ready to unfold the mystery of “Christ in you,” which results in every man being presented “perfect in Christ Jesus.” Righteousness by faith is exactly that: attaining righteousness through the indwelling Christ. Believing that our hearts are changed and that we’re forgiven despite how we feel is how we practically claim by faith the promise of God’s Word. Faith is trusting that Christ will accomplish what He promised in His Word. There is creative power in God’s Word; God’s voice has the power to create something out of nothing and speak light into the darkest hearts (Ps. 33:6–9; 2 Cor. 4:6). Jesus is that creative Word made flesh. “Christ in you” is the transforming experience we all need. It’s something none of us can create or do for ourselves. It’s opening ourselves up to those things that only God can do in us.

Paul saw no value in his own works apart from Christ. His most earnest desire was to experience Christ working in him and through him: “To this end I also labor, striving according to His working which works in me mightily” (Col. 1:29). Today, if there were more people who recognized their complete helplessness apart from Christ, there would be more people who had the power of Christ working through them continually. Jesus is looking for people who are emptied of self and open to being filled with His mighty works. The rich experience of “Christ in you” is just as available now as it has ever been.

Colossians 2 warns of various distractions that threaten the experience of living with “Christ in you.” Chapter 3 returns to the theme of what it means to have “Christ in you”: First, Christ dwelling within means the mind is fixed on things above, not on things of the earth (Col 3:1–3). Second, it means we put off the works of the flesh such as “anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, [and] filthy language” (v. 9). Christ dwelling within means we put off the works of the flesh and instead “put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, longsuffering” (v. 12) and all the other attributes of Jesus. “Above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfection” (v. 14). The verbs in chapter 3 are key to understanding righteousness by faith. The believer “puts off” the works of the flesh and “puts on” the righteousness of Christ. When we accept Jesus by faith, He covers us with His own pure white robe of righteousness (see also Rev. 19:8). Believers depend on Christ’s righteousness to continually cover us, dwell in us, and flow through us.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What things prevent us from experiencing Christ continually dwelling in us?`