---
title:  The Hope of Glory
date:   29/11/2023
---

### inVite

It’s possible to understand the idea of righteousness while still being ignorant of the nature of God’s righteousness. This leads us to try to establish our own righteousness outside of Christ. Righteousness is ultimately the experience of a change in standing before God. “Without the presence of Jesus in the heart, religious service is only dead, cold formalism…. when Christ is in us the hope of glory, we are constantly directed to think and act in reference to the glory of God” (Ellen White, That I May Know Him [1964], 193). When Christ dwells in us continually, it completely reorients our priorities, our responses, and our views on everything. There’s nothing that remains unchanged when Jesus is dwelling in the heart. 

The central message of Scripture is the gospel, and at the heart of the gospel is the power of Christ over sin. Only through a union with Christ can anyone overcome sin—a union that’s ultimately a mystery. It’s a mystery that Jesus would willingly volunteer to be the Sacrifice for sin, that the divine Creator of the world could enter Mary’s womb and be born as a baby, that Jesus could be simultaneously fully divine and fully human, that Jesus can abide in our filthy, dirty hearts and clean them up.

In some ways, the fact that Jesus would dwell in the hearts of corrupt people is unsurprising. When He was born on earth, His manger was in a dirty, smelly barn. If Jesus can be born in such a lowly and despised place, have no doubt that He can enter our hearts today regardless of the condition, our past, our addictions—anything. No matter what we’ve done, Jesus is able to enter if we open ourselves to Him.

Not only is “Christ in you” a mystery, it’s described as the “hope of glory” (Col. 1:27). One biblical definition for glory is that it refers to God’s name or character. Having Christ in our hearts means His character is imprinted in our lives. It’s not just a theory; it becomes practical and tangible as the profession of our faith is lived out in our words, actions, and innermost thoughts. Matthew 7:16 says we will be known by our fruits, and when Christ is in us, the fruits of the Spirit (see Gal. 5:22, 23) are evident to all. Salvation isn’t an abstract process; it’s something Jesus is personally involved in with each of us as He dwells in our hearts. All this deep work that Jesus does within us shows God’s incredible love and care for us.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`In what ways is Christ abiding in us the same as Christ allowing His Father to abide in Him? Is it different in any way? (John 17:20–23.)`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`