---
title:  Sharing Jesus With Rich and Powerful People
date:   25/11/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Daniel 4; 2 Kings 5:1–19; John 3:1–12; Matthew 19:16–22; Matthew 27:57–60.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘ What good is it [this life] if someone gains [gets] the whole world [fame, riches, everything money can buy] but loses their soul? Or what [thing] can anyone trade for their soul?’ ” (Matthew 16:26, NIrV).

The Bible is the Word of God. The Bible shows us God’s plan for our lives. An important Bible truth is the teaching that all people are sinners who need God’s mercy. Rich and powerful people also belong to this group.

Rich and powerful people in Bible times weren’t much different from rich and powerful people in modern times. Both groups wanted fame, riches, and control. Sad to say, they often hurt other people to become rich and powerful (but not always). God loves rich and powerful people as much as He loves the poor and weak people who need His help. We can read stories in the Bible about people who were powerful or rich, or both. The Bible shows us how God uses these rich and powerful men and women to bless other people. Job, Abraham, Isaac, Joseph, Deborah, Abigail, Solomon, and Esther are a few examples.

This week, we will look at God’s work among rich and powerful men: King Nebuchadnezzar, Naaman, Nicodemus, and Zacchaeus, to name a few. We will learn about how God touched the lives of these men in Bible times. Today, God trains Seventh-day Adventist men and women to share with the rich and powerful the Good News about Jesus.