---
title:  Nebuchadnezzar
date:   26/11/2023
---

Some Christians believe that Jesus died for a special group of people. They believe that only this group will be saved. As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe that Jesus died for all humans. “God wants all people to be saved. And he wants everyone to know the truth” (1 Timothy 2:4, ICB).

“He gave his life to pay for our sins. But he not only paid for our sins. He also paid for the sins of the whole world [all humans]” (1 John 2:2, NIrV). That’s why “God chose us to belong to Christ [Jesus] before the world [earth] was created [made]. He [God] chose us to be holy and without blame in his eyes. He loved us” (Ephesians 1:4, NIrV). Not everyone chooses to accept God’s offering for our sins. But some people do. Many of these people are very powerful. We can read about some of these powerful people in the Bible.

`Read about King Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel 4. What happened to the king? How did God save him?`

At first, King Nebuchadnezzar didn’t believe in God. The Bible shows us how God judged King Nebuchadnezzar in much the same way that He judged and punished some Israelite kings. (You can read more about these kings in 2 Chronicles 32:25, 26; 1 Kings 14:21–31; 1 Samuel 28.) After God judged Nebuchadnezzar, the king behaved the same as an animal. His fingernails, hair, and beard grew long. He ate grass the same as a cow. After seven years, God healed Nebuchadnezzar’s mind. Then the king worshiped God as the One who made everything. Nebuchadnezzar’s amazing story shows us that God wants to save more people than only the ones who are weak and in need. God wants to save rich and powerful people, too. At this time, King Nebuchadnezzar was the most powerful man on the earth. The king said, “ ‘Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, give praise, honor, and glory to the King of Heaven. Everything he does is right. He is always fair, and he is able to [can] make proud [filled with pride] people humble [empty of all pride]!’ ” (Daniel 4:37, ERV). If only all the powerful and proud people on this earth understood this Bible truth!

What can we learn from this story? First, God uses Daniel to touch the king’s heart. In the same way, God will work with us to touch lives. Second, God can do what we can’t do. God can work a miracle to save someone. As we will see, God has other ways to empty a heart of all pride.