---
title:  Naaman
date:   27/11/2023
---

`Read Naaman’s story in 2 Kings 5:1–19. What two things does Naaman ask for? What does his story teach us about why we must be patient and understanding with new Christians?`

In 2 Kings 5:1–19, Naaman asks Elisha for two things we may think are a little strange. First, Naaman says, “ ‘Let me have enough dirt from Israel to fill the baskets on two of my mules’ ” (2 Kings 5:17, ERV). Naaman explains to Elisha that he “will not give burnt gifts or kill animals on the altar in worship to other gods any more. I will give only gifts to the Lord’ ” (2 Kings 5:17, NLV). Naaman understood that the Lord was the only God there was. At the same time, Naaman thought God was connected in some special way to the land of Israel and must be worshiped on its ground. So, Naaman wanted to take some dirt from Israel back to Syria. Naaman’s story teaches us an important lesson about leading people to Jesus. New Christians may need time to change some of their old beliefs.

Next, Naaman talks to Elisha about something he must do from time to time: “ ‘And I pray that the Lordord will forgive me for this: When my master goes to the temple of Rimmon to worship that false god, he will want to lean on me for support. So I must bow down in the temple of Rimmon. I ask the Lordord now to forgive me when that happens’ ” (2 Kings 5:18, ERV). Is Naaman asking for permission to sin in the future? What is going on?

Naaman knew that serving God wasn’t going to be easy in his own country. Part of Naaman’s job included going with his king to Rimmon’s temple. When the king bowed to Rimmon, he needed to lean on Naaman’s arm for support (2 Kings 5:18). Naaman didn’t want anyone to believe he bowed in worship to Rimmon, too. So, before Naaman left Israel, he shared his worry with Elisha. Elisha listened to Naaman and told him, “ ‘go in peace’ ” (2 Kings 5:19, ERV).

We must not think these words mean that Elisha gave Naaman permission to worship false gods. When Elisha said, “Go in peace,” he meant that Naaman should go with no doubt in his heart about God’s love. As time passed, and Naaman grew in faith, God would show Naaman the things he needed to change in his life. In the same way, God leads new Christians today. God knows the best time to ask new Christians to change their behavior. We must remember this important rule when we work with God to save people.