---
title:  Sharing Jesus With Educated People
date:   28/11/2023
---

Nicodemus had a lot of knowledge. The Bible says that Nicodemus was a Jewish leader (John 3:1). Jesus said that Nicodemus was a teacher of Israel (John 3:10). Nicodemus understood the Bible well. He also wanted to know the Lord. To our eyes, Nicodemus may have looked as if he was God’s follower. Nicodemus kept all the commandments. The Jewish people respected him. Nicodemus was powerful and rich. Many people believed that Nicodemus’s riches and power were signs that God blessed him. But Nicodemus felt that something was missing from his life.

`Read Nicodemus’ story in John 3:1–12. What does this story show us about Nicodemus’s spiritual needs? How does Jesus take care of Nicodemus’s needs right away?`

When Nicodemus came to Jesus, he tried to pretend that everything was fine with his spiritual life and that he didn’t really need anything from Jesus. But Jesus knew Nicodemus’s heart. In the same way, God knows the hearts and needs of rich and powerful people today. Nicodemus came to Jesus because Jesus’ teachings touched his heart. Nicodemus’s pride kept him from announcing in public that he believed Jesus was the Savior. So, Nicodemus came to Jesus at night. That night with Jesus changed Nicodemus forever. After that meeting, Nicodemus didn’t make a public announcement that he accepted Jesus as his personal Savior. But Nicodemus became a secret follower of Jesus.

`Read John 7:43–52 and John 19:39. What do these verses tell us about Nicodemus and Jesus?`

These verses show us that Nicodemus’s life had been changed by Jesus. Nicodemus tried to protect Jesus when He was alive. Then Nicodemus wanted to honor Jesus after He died. For sure, Jesus touched Nicodemus’s heart. This powerful man, with all his knowledge and education, needed the Savior. We all do.

`Yes, we have Bible truth. But why must we be careful not to fall into the “trap” of thinking that what we know is enough to save us? Why must we also accept Jesus as our Lord and Savior?`