---
title:  Rich People And God’s Kingdom
date:   29/11/2023
---

`Read the story about the rich young man in Matthew 19:16–22. Compare the rich young man with Nicodemus. Nicodemus accepts Jesus. The rich young man doesn’t. What lessons can we learn from the rich young man’s story?`

The story about Jesus and the rich young man shows us that riches can be a terrible “trap.” We must avoid falling into it. Look at Jesus’ words about the dangers of riches: “ ‘Yes, I tell you, it is easier [not as hard] for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter God’s kingdom’ ” (Matthew 19:24, ERV). Of course, Jesus isn’t saying that rich people can’t be saved. But they must be careful not to love their riches more than they love God.

In the end, the rich and the poor will die (if Jesus doesn’t come first.) So, the rich need to be saved as much as anyone else. Whatever else money can buy, it can’t buy us freedom from death. Only Jesus can make us free from death when we have faith in His gift of everlasting life. Jesus said, “ ‘I am the resurrection [waking up from the dead]. I am life. Everyone who believes in me will have life, even if they die’ ” (John 11:25, ERV).

`Read about Zacchaeus in Luke 19:1–10. How is Zacchaeus’s story different from the rich young man’s story?`

Zacchaeus accepted Jesus, and the rich young man turned away from Him. Do you see in Zacchaeus’s story that Jesus doesn’t tell Zacchaeus to sell everything he owns and give the money to the poor? Jesus knew that the young man loved his riches very much. So, Jesus asked the rich young man to sell his stuff.

We don’t know everything that Jesus says to Zacchaeus when He visits him in his house. We do know that Zacchaeus felt that He needed to make some changes in his life after he met Jesus.

`“ ‘What good is it if someone gains [gets] the whole world [fame, riches] but loses their soul [everlasting life]? Or what can anyone trade for their soul?’ ” (Matthew 16:26, NIrV). What is Jesus warning us about?`