---
title:  Helping God Save Powerful People
date:   30/11/2023
---

Jesus knew how to make friends with powerful people. Many powerful people liked and respected Jesus. There also were many powerful people who didn’t like Jesus. Powerful people in the Bible came to Jesus for help. They felt that He cared for them. Also, many rich and powerful people didn’t come to Jesus right away. They waited until they were sure that Jesus was really God’s Son. That’s what happened with Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea.

`Read Matthew 27:57–60 (also read Mark 15:43–47; Luke 23:50–53; and John 19:38–42). What does this story tell us about how the Lord used a rich man whose life Jesus changed?`

The Bible doesn’t tell us anything about Joseph of Arimathea before this time in Jesus’ life. Then Joseph of Arimathea shows up from nowhere and God uses Him to keep Bible promises He made about Jesus during Old Testament times. God will continue to use rich people in His saving plan. So, we must work with God to help Him save them.

How do you make friends with powerful people? The best advice is don’t try to take the lead in making friends with them; let them come to you. Jesus followed this plan. Rich and powerful people were witnesses of Jesus’ message and His healing power from God. These rich and powerful people believed that Jesus was the Son of God.

Powerful people may want to help you do God’s work for many reasons. They may want to be part of something good that changes the lives of people. Our success for God shows them that Jesus can change their lives.

Start doing work for God that rich and powerful people also can join and be a part of. Take time to help the rich and powerful people in your community and make their lives better.

`Task #1: Add to your daily prayer list the name of someone who is a powerful person. This person shouldn’t be a member of your church. Also, this person should be someone you may get the chance to meet from time to time.`

`Task #2: Send a letter or an email to a powerful leader. Don’t worry if you’ve never met. Tell this person, “I am praying for you.” Then be sure to do it!`