---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   01/12/2023
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Ministry to the Rich,” The Ministry of Healing, pages 209–216; “Captive Maid Shows Concern for Naaman,” Reflecting Christ, page 337.

Jesus loves poor people as much as He loves rich and powerful people. Jesus died for princes and also homeless people. Jesus knew the best way to touch human hearts. He warned us, “ ‘Yes, I tell you, it is easier [not as hard] for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter God’s kingdom’ ” (Matthew 19:24, ERV). This week, we learned about why we must share the Good News about Jesus with rich and powerful people. Sometimes rich and powerful people may not know they need Jesus. But they need God’s saving mercy as much as anyone else.

“Many people say that we need to help the poor. Shouldn’t we also give help to the rich? Many people think that rich people are bad and that they can’t be saved. . . . Thousands of rich men die without being warned. Rich people may look as if they don’t care about everlasting life. But many of them carry heavy loads in their hearts.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 210, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Jesus broke down the walls that separated the rich and the poor. How do we as Seventh-day Adventists continue to do this same work?`

`Jesus said, “ ‘The seed that fell among the thorns is like [the same as] others [people] who hear the message. But then the worries of this life and the false promises of wealth [riches] crowd it out. They [worries and riches] keep the message from producing [growing] fruit’ ” (Matthew 13:22, ERV).`

`In class, review the question asked at the end of Tuesday’s study that talks about how knowing Bible truth isn’t the same thing as our being saved by it. Why is this idea so important? If knowing the truth only isn’t what saves us, what does save us?`

`What other reasons may explain why the rich young man rejected Jesus while Zacchaeus accepted Him?`