---
title:  Adam and Jesus
date:   04/11/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Romans 5.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
>“We have been made right with God because of our faith. So we have peace with God through [because of] our Lord Jesus Christ” (Romans 5:1, 2, ICB).

Paul said that God accepts us because of our faith in Jesus. Another name for our being accepted by God is justification by faith. Our justification comes from Jesus’ saving power. Another name for Jesus’ saving power is righteous-ness. Only Jesus’ righteousness is enough to make us right with God. We saw how Paul builds on this important truth. First, Paul shows us that our being saved comes by faith, not works, even for someone as holy as Abraham. Then, Paul steps back to look at the big picture of God’s plan to save us and asks: What caused sin, suffering, and death? How is the answer found in Jesus and the things He did for us? 

Adam fell. This one man’s sin caused the whole human family to come under the power of death. Adam’s sin caused our separation from God. But Jesus won the victory over sin. By this one Man, Jesus, everyone has the chance to be saved. By our faith in Jesus, the record of our sins and the punishment for breaking the law can be removed forever.

Paul shows the difference between Adam and Jesus. Jesus came to fix what Adam did wrong. Jesus showed us that everyone injured by Adam’s sin could be saved by faith in God. The Cross and Jesus’ death as our Substitute open the way for everyone to be saved.
