---
title:  We Are Made Right With God By Faith
date:   05/11/2017
---

`What is Paul’s message in Romans 5:1–5? What can you learn from Paul’s message to make your faith grow?`

“Being made right with God” has the same meaning as “have been made right with God.” The Greek verb for these wordings shows the action as already having been completed.  This fact is good news. It shows us God accepts us and says we are holy. He makes us right with Himself when we accept Jesus. We are not made right from any good works we do by obeying the law. Instead, God accepts Jesus’ perfect record of obedience in place of our record of sin.

At the same time, God has put all of our sins on Jesus. God ruled that Jesus did those sins, not us. And so, we are free from the punishment we should suffer for sin. Our punishment fell on Jesus instead. He suffered our punishment for us so that we never would have to. What more wonderful news could there be for the sinner?

The Greek word written as “happy” in Romans 5:2 (ICB) is also written  as “full of joy” in Romans 5:3 (NIrV). This Greek word shows that people who have been made right with God are full of joy, even when they suffer. Suffering gives them the strength to go on. They put their faith and trust in Jesus. They are sure God will work out all things for their good. They feel that it is an honor to suffer for Jesus. (Read 1 Peter 4:13.)

Notice in Romans 5:3–5 the different ways we move forward in spiritual growth. Paul teaches that we first must grow in (1) strength, (2) then becoming holy, and, finally, (3) hope. Let us look at each part.

**"The strength to go on" (NIrV).** This wording comes from a Greek word that means “to be faithful to the end.” This strength grows in people who have faith. This strength grows in believers who do not lose hope in Jesus. These believers stay faithful to God, even while they suffer.

**"Stood [stayed loyal; passed] the test" (NLV).**  This wording comes from the Greek *dokime*. *Dokime* means “accepted thoughts, feelings, and actions.” So, people who stay patient will think, feel, and behave in a way God accepts.

**“Hope” (NLV).** Our loyalty to God causes us to think, feel, and act in a way God accepts. Our making God happy, gives us hope. Our hope is found in Jesus and the promise of being saved in Him. We must hold onto Him in faith and obey God. Then our hope will be strong.
