---
title:  While We Were Sinners
date:   06/11/2017
---

`What hope do we find in Romans 5:6–8? What do these verses tell us about God’s character? Character is made up of a person’s thoughts, feelings, and actions. We know that God is holy and kind. These different parts of God’s character tell us about God.`

Adam and Eve broke the law. There was no excuse for their sin. But their sin did not stop God from showing mercy to Adam and Eve. God led Adam and Eve back to peace with Himself. Ever since, God has led in doing everything that was needed to save us. God invites us to accept His plan to save us. That plan is Jesus.

`Romans 5:9 says that Jesus saves us from God’s anger. How does Jesus save us from God’s anger?`

The story in Exodus 12 tells how God freed Israel from slavery in Egypt. This story helps us understand how Jesus saves us from God’s anger. The night came for God to free His people from the Egyptians. Earlier, God told Moses that He would enter Egypt and kill every firstborn man and animal. God told Moses to tell the children of Israel to put blood on the doorframes of their houses. God would see the blood and would pass over the house. Then everyone inside the house would be protected from God’s anger that fell on Egypt’s firstborn. In the same way, the blood of Jesus protects us. Jesus’ blood is a promise that the person who has been made right with God and stays right with God will be safe when God’s anger destroys sin at the end of time.

Some people have a hard time accepting the idea of a loving God who is angry. But it is *exactly* because of God’s love that His anger against sin is real. Look at everything sin has done to damage the things God made on this earth. How could God not be angry at all the evil and ruin?

`Read Romans 5:10, 11. What other reasons does Paul give us to be full of joy?`

Paul seems to be putting importance on the fact that Jesus rose from the dead. Jesus is alive forever (Hebrews 7:25). But what would happen to us if Jesus stayed in the grave? Then our hopes would have died with Jesus. But Jesus lives. So, we are saved. That is the reason for our joy.
