---
title:  Death Came By Sin
date:   07/11/2017
---

Death is an enemy. Perhaps, it is the worst enemy we ever will meet. After all, God did not make humans to die. No, God made us to live forever. Very few people want to die. People who die nearly always suffer a lot of pain and sorrow first. Death goes against our desire to live. From the minute our lives began, we were meant to live forever. God never meant for us to know anything about death.  

`Read Romans 5:12. What is Paul describing here? What does this verse explain?`

Bible thinkers have argued more about the meaning of this verse than they have about almost any other verse in the Bible. Maybe the reason is because these people use this verse to mean things Paul never meant for it to mean.

Some Bible thinkers argue over what Adam’s sin means. These Bible thinkers ask, How did Adam’s sin cause a change in all his future children? Did all of Adam’s future children share the guilt of Adam’s sin? Or are they guilty in God’s eyes because of their own sins? Many people have tried to get the answer to these questions from Romans 5:12. But Paul is not talking about these questions in this verse. Instead, Paul wants to bring our attention to the truth he already shared in Romans 3:23: “Everyone has sinned” (NIrV). We need to accept we are sinners. When we accept this fact, we will understand our need for a Savior. In Romans 5:12, Paul wants his readers to accept that sin is bad and that Adam brought sin into our lives. Then Paul shows us that God offers us Jesus, who heals us from sin.

But Romans 5:12 tells only of the problem that Adam’s sin brought—death. Romans 5:12 does not tell us about the answer to sin—life in Jesus. One of the most beautiful parts of the Good News that Jesus saves us by faith is that God has destroyed death. How? Jesus broke death’s chains when He walked out of the grave. He says, “ ‘I am the Living One. I was dead. But now look! I am alive for ever and ever! And I hold the keys to Death and Hell [the grave]’ ” (Revelation 1:18, NIrV). Jesus has the “keys” to unlock the grave. So, the enemy—death—can no longer hold us there.

`What has been your own experience with how awful death is? Why must we have hope in something more than ourselves or anything this life offers?`
