---
title:  From Adam to Moses
date:   08/11/2017
---

`What do Paul’s words in Romans 5:13, 14 teach us about the law?`

The wording “before the law was given” (NIrV) in Romans 5:13 is closely connected to the wording “from the time of Adam to the time of Moses” (NIrV) in Romans 5:14. What does Paul mean by connecting these two ideas together? He connects these ideas together to point us to the time from the beginning of this earth to Sinai. Now, this time period took place before God introduced His plan of worship to the Jews.

So, the wording “before the law was given” means before the time that God made His different laws known to Israel at Sinai. This wording shows that sin was a part of life on this earth long before Sinai. Sin had to be, right? After all, lying, killing, sex outside of marriage, and worshiping false gods were sins before Sinai.

Now, it is true that, before Sinai, humans had only a limited idea about God. But humans knew enough about God to be held guilty for wrongdoing. God is fair. He is not going to punish anyone without a cause. Humans had not sinned against a law that clearly had been made known. But they sinned anyway. So then, how could humans sin if they did not know about the law? They sinned because nature showed them clear pictures of God. But humans turned away from these truths. And so, humans sinned (Romans 1:20).

`How does Romans 5:20, 21 help us understand why God made Himself known more fully in the “law”?`

The law and teachings that God gave to Moses at Sinai included the Ten Commandments. That was the first time that this law was written down and announced far and wide.

Then the Israelites began to see that they failed to do all that the law asked. All of a sudden, they understood they were awful sinners. God’s law helped His people see their need of a Savior. And God’s law led His people to accept His gift of forgiveness.

`How do the laws in your country show to you what is right and wrong? How much more does God’s everlasting law show us the difference between good and evil?`
