---
title:  Jesus, the Second Adam
date:   09/11/2017
---

`In Romans 5:18, 19, Paul shows us the difference between the things that both Adam and Jesus gave us. What is the difference? What hope does Jesus give us?`

Humans got nothing from Adam but death. But Jesus came to this earth in a human body and passed the test that Adam failed. Jesus won the victory over sin. Jesus did this work for us as our Substitute. He put us in good standing with God. That is why Jesus is the “Second Adam.”

“The Second Adam [Jesus] was free to choose between right and wrong. God made Jesus answer for what happened because of His choices. There were people and powers all around Jesus that could have led Him to do the wrong thing. So, Jesus had a much more difficult time than Adam did in choosing not to sin. But Jesus refused to give into any desire to sin. He stayed innocent and free from guilt and sin.” —Ellen G. White Comments [Thoughts], *The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation]*, volume 6, page 1074, adapted.

`Read Romans 5:15–19. As explained in these verses, how is Jesus’ gift shown to be different from Adam’s sin?`

Paul shows us that Jesus’ gift is very different from Adam’s sin. Here are some examples: (1) Adam’s sin brought us death. But Jesus’ gift gave us life. (2) Adam disobeyed and brought sin into our lives. But Jesus’ obedience saved us. (3) Adam’s  guilt brought a death sentence on the whole earth. But Jesus’ gift made us right with God. (4) Adam’s sin brought the damage of sin on us all. But Jesus’ gift brought us mercy and power over sin. Jesus fixed all that Adam did wrong!

Paul uses the word “gift” five times in Romans 5:15–17 to make his idea clear: Paul wants to show that we do not earn the gift of being made right with God. Instead, God gives us this gift. This gift is not a reward for anything we do. We are not worthy of it. Again, it is a gift. Because our being saved is a gift, we must reach out in faith to God to accept this gift.

`What is the best gift that someone ever gave you? How did the fact that you did not earn it make it special? Why can no gift we could get on this earth ever begin to match the gift that Jesus gave us?`
