---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   10/11/2017
---

“Many people are fooled because they believe the best about their evil hearts. But these people do not understand their natural hearts are very dishonest. Instead, these people ‘cover’ themselves in their own good works in the same way someone puts on clothes. These people are happy with living this example of what they think being good means.”—Ellen G. White, *Selected Messages*, book 1, page 320, adapted.

“There is a big need for Jesus to be preached as our only hope and our only way to be saved. That is why God gave us the teaching of justification [being made right with God] by faith. This teaching was to many people the same as water is to the thirsty traveler. Jesus’ power is not a reward for anything we do! Instead, God gives us Jesus’ power as a gift. What a precious thought!”—*Selected Messages*, book 1, page 360, adapted.

But Adam was like [about the same as] the One [Jesus] Who was to come’ (Romans 5:14, NLV). How exactly is Adam the same as Jesus? After all, Adam ate the forbidden fruit. And this sin made Adam the cause of death for his children and all those born on this earth. But just as Adam became the cause of death for all people, Jesus became the cause of life for everyone who believes. We have done nothing to earn Jesus’ mercy. But Jesus is the Giver of mercy to everyone who accepts Him. His power to make all men right with God comes from the Cross. The symbol of Adam’s sin is in us. We die just as if we ate the forbidden fruit ourselves. The symbol of Jesus’ life is in us, too. We live just as if we had obeyed all that the law asked of us exactly as Jesus obeyed.”—Martin Luther, *Commentary on Romans*, pages 96, 97, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**

`1. "We need to study the Bible more carefully. The Bible is God's Word to us. We should give the books of Daniel and Revelation our careful attention as we never have before. We might say less about the power of the Roman church. But we should point people to truths that the Bible writers wrote. ”—Ellen G. White, *Evangelism* [Preaching the Good News to People Everywhere], page 577, adapted. What do these words from Ellen G. White mean?`

`2. How can we help other people to understand better the gifts that Jesus offers them?`
