---
title:  I’m Watching You!
date:  18/05/2019
---

**Introduction**: 1 Cor. 11:1

I’m a parent of two lovely girls; Isla, 11, and Amity, 8. Most of the time I’m a sane, rational, normal person who gets on with life and does what I need to do without too much fuss. Occasionally, though, I have brief moments when I realize the awesome, sacred responsibility of parenting. I stop and think about this amazing, humbling position I’m in. If I dwell on it too much, it’s overwhelming! Contemplating the enormity of my assignment is sobering and reminds me how vital it is to parent with love and intention.

Recently, I lost my temper with Isla because her room was total chaos. As I berated her for being so messy and disorganized, God spoke to my heart and reminded me of the mess in my own room and in another room where I’d allowed books and papers to pile up. He challenged me not to expect more from my children than from myself. As I apologized to Isla and we talked things through, I had a realization. We start off as children who mimic our parents, then we may become parents who are mimicked by our children. Finally, we may become grandparents mimicked by both our children and grandchildren. In each stage of life, God gives us little mirrors to show us areas where we need to grow, change, and better reflect His love.

How did Jesus teach His disciples? What approach did He take? How can I translate that into my parenting and family relationships?

Jesus didn’t berate the disciples, condemn them, shout at them, or disown them. He gently taught them truths. He modeled grace in action and told stories to help them understand the depth of God’s love. Most of all, He just “does” life with them. I feel God prompting me to have more patience, more time, more stories, more instruction, and more love for my children. My children are watching me and learning what I value, where I place importance, and what my heart truly treasures. I pray that they feel valued and loved as I try to give them a glimpse of the amazing, immeasurable love God has for them. I pray that they find their God-given purpose as I train them to be all they were to be. I pray that they see Jesus reflected in me.

Who is watching you? Even if you don’t have children of your own, people are watching. You can encourage, uplift, and draw people to Jesus. What is your life saying to others about God, and how can you live more intentionally so that you can show them how patient, loving, and kind God really is?

---

_Karen Plaatjes, Barrowby, Lincolnshire, United Kingdom_