---
title:  To Parent or Not to Parent
date:  19/05/2019
---

**Evidence**: Gen. 18:11; 30:1; 1 Sam. 1:1–8; Luke 1:7

From birth to toddler, to middle school, to graduation, to marriage, to parenthood— this feels like the natural flow of things, how it’s supposed to be. God said, “Be fruitful, and multiply” (Gen. 1:28). But what about the in-between time? For many, the question “To parent or not to parent?” is answered with a resounding, “Yes!” But then the child does not come.

As you read the verses for today’s lesson, jot down words in the margins that describe the emotional state they reference. While the tone is dark, there is also a glint of hope. Read the context around each verse. The personalities turn to God with their questions. It doesn’t mean that the tension lifts or that a longed-for birth is satisfied with pleasure. Each heart finds a glint of faith that motivates a tur n to God even before answers are given.

The temptation becomes too great, so we turn the page. In the stories of Sarah, Rachel, Hannah, and Elizabeth we need the next chapter. Just as Sarah named her son Isaac (Gen. 21:6), a name that means laughter, she laughs as only one who is old can, one who is old and receives a ridiculous miracle that gives her the desire of her heart.

Read far enough, each of the women has a similar story to tell. Yet don’t gloss over it. Again there are the between times, the life with tension that must be lived. Sarah must wait until she is old and grey. Rachel prays long and hard and finally births not one but two sons, neither of whom she will see grow up. Hannah gives up her prayed-for child to God’s service in the temple. Elizabeth’s son goes to preach in the desert. The prayed-for child who changes child-free living to child-full living changes their lives forever. (Yet, as a mother, I suspect that these women would not have had it any other way.) Living in the tension, in full knowledge that God is there, reignites the flame of hope.

**React**

`1. How can someone live in the tension of parenting without having a child of their own? How can someone in this phase of life choose to invest and mentor other children not their own?`

`2. Draw a picture that illustrates an as-yet-unrealized hope in your life. What can you learn from these women and their childless living?`

---

_Heather Crews, Richmond, Virginia, USA_