---
title:  Facing Giants
date:  22/05/2019
---

**How-to**: 1 Sam. 17:4; 1 Cor. 16:13

Two children were born centuries apart. Irena Krzyzanowska (Sendler) on February 15, 1910, and David, born about 1040 b.c. Both would impact their worlds.

In 1943 the Warsaw Ghetto refused to fall to the Nazis, and SS- Brigadeführer Jürgen Stroop ordered the slaughter and burning of those left behind. Thirteen thousand Jews died. A year earlier, Irena Sendler, a Polish social worker, gained access to the Nazi-controlled Warsaw Ghetto. Irena’s main goal was to provide assistance to the segregated Jews. Unknown to the Nazis, Irena was an active member of Zegota, a Polish government–organized secret organization created to smuggle out children under the guise of the Warsaw Health Department. Irena faced the foreboding giant of the Nazi party and their quest to exterminate the Jews.

Nearly three thousand years before, a shepherd boy who was delivering food to his brothers went out to face “Goliath, from Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span” (1 Sam. 17:4, NKJV). A giant of a man, Goliath had been mocking and taunting the Israelite army. A shepherd boy was surely no threat to his knowledge of warfare and carnage.

How are we preparing our children to face the “giants” of their world? Irena faced the Nazi party, a giant of death and destruction, while David faced a fearsome Philistine warrior. Both Irena and David thought beyond themselves. Irena was arrested and nearly executed. David could have been slaughtered by Goliath’s sword in front of his family, Saul, and the Israelite forces. “Be on your guard; stand firm in the faith; be courageous; be strong” (1 Cor. 16:13, NIV). Our children’s impact on this world does not have to be great. Sometimes a simple task is all that is needed. Irena helped smuggle 2,500 babies and children to safety outside the Warsaw Ghetto. David brought down a huge adversary with one little stone. While Irena’s smuggling out children seems like a great feat now, it was a small daily happening. One small stone brought down Goliath. One at a time, a small child hidden in a suitcase or under a stretcher in an ambulance escaped the ghetto.

**React**

`How are we raising our children to think beyond their small world, to seek out ways to make this earth a better place and to face the giants of their future until Christ’s return?`

---

_Johanna Bjork, Lewiston, Idaho, USA_