---
title:  No Good Parents
date:  23/05/2019
---

**Opinion**: Psalm 127

Have you ever complained about your parents? Of course you have. Everyone does. That’s because parents give us reasons to complain. Every mother or father makes mistakes.

No one checks a man and woman’s qualifications before they become parents. No training is required. That teenager texting behind the wheel of the car ahead of you had infinitely more testing before he could drive than your parents did before they gave birth to you. The government requires a license before you can even go fishing, but when it comes to bringing a living soul into existence, the State shrugs and steps out of the way.

Parents are not only clueless—they are broken by sin. Even if they know better, they may damage their kids with their anger, their addictions, and their warped ambitions.

You may wonder why God allows a bunch of ignorant and crooked creatures to reproduce. Why doesn’t He limit fertility to head elders and Sabbath School superintendents? The answer is probably the same as the answer to the old question of why He allowed sin in the first place. He wants us to be free. We are free to create little humans and raise them however we want. This creative act looms as a staggering responsibility, but it wouldn’t be a real responsibility if we weren’t free to flub it.

Thankfully, not every parent makes a total wreck of their job. Through grace, God has put enough love in their hearts to compensate for their ignorance and impatience. Making use of those gifts, many men and women become decent parents. They aren’t perfect, but their good intentions overwhelm their bad moments.

In the end, we are all bad parents. As Jesus said to the rich young ruler, “ ‘No one is good but One’ ” (Matt. 19:17, NKJV). Some will know judgment and regrets. And others—through some combination of repentance and grace—will see parenting as a great and shining joy.

**React**

`1. What mistakes that your parents made are easiest to forgive? What mistakes are hard to forgive?`

`2. What mistakes are parents most likely to make in this day and age? What mistakes are they less likely to make than in earlier generations?`

---

_Kim Peckham, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_