---
title:  Delight
date:  24/05/2019
---

**Exploration**: Psalm 127

**Conclude**

The wait had been so long. It wasn’t until I held him in my arms that I understood the meaning of God’s saying He delights in us (Ps. 147:11, NIV). Ever since my son entered our family through adoption, I have called him “Mama’s delight.” One day my son asked me, “What does ‘delight’ mean?” I replied, “To have immense joy.” It wasn’t until I became a parent that I understood God’s love, joy, frustration, and angst and understood the true gift of free will—and how painful that gift is. Parenting my biological and adopted children has stretched me, and I have gained more insights into myself, my marriage, and my family than I ever knew possible.

**Consider**

- Meditating on Psalm 127 and its meaning three thousand years ago, and today.
- Writing a letter to those who raised you, reflecting on how they shaped you, making you who you are today.
- Sketching an illustration of how God has taken care of you.
- Creating a board game about the challenges of family life.
- Interviewing a parent or grandparent about what they learned through experience.
- Contrasting different parenting styles you’ve witnessed or experienced and how they shape someone’s character.
- Role-playing how you might respond to a challenge in your family.
- Reflecting on the memories that built bonds between yourself and your family.


**Connect**

Deuteronomy 6:6–9; Joshua 4:20–24; Proverbs 3; Lamentations 3:22, 23; Matthew 6:28–34.

Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, pp. 159–162.

Donna Habenicht, How to Help Your Child Really Love Jesus (Review and Herald®, 1994).

---

_Lisa Hermann, Nashville, Tennessee, USA_