---
title:  A Story that Everyone Will Remember Forever
date:   08/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 14:1–11. What two stories do we read about in these verses? How are these stories connected?`

Mark 14:1 says that the Passover feast was two days away. The Jewish spiritual leaders met on a Tuesday or Wednesday night of that same week. The leaders have a plan to kill Jesus. They just need a way to make their plan happen. They get help from someone they didn’t expect to help them: Judas.

Mark 14:1–11 connects the plan to kill Jesus with a story about a woman who pours expensive perfume on Jesus’ head. In these two stories, we see a woman who shows her love for Jesus and a follower of Jesus who sells Him to His enemies. The woman is not named. Judas is named and is one of Jesus’ Twelve Followers. The woman spends a lot of money on her gift. Mark tells us how much the perfume is worth. Judas sells Jesus to His enemies for the promise of money.

Mark doesn’t tell us why the woman pours her expensive perfume on Jesus’ head. The guests at the feast are surprised and upset with the woman. They think she has wasted a lot of money when she pours the perfume on Jesus. The perfume costs the same as a whole year’s pay for work. But Jesus praises the woman’s gift. He promises that the story about her gift will be remembered wherever people preach the Good News. Matthew, Luke, and John also include this story about the woman in their books on Jesus’ life.

Matthew, Luke, and John also remember Judas’s evil actions against Jesus, but not for nice reasons. Mark suggests that Judas sold Jesus because he was selfish and loved money. The Book of John plainly tells us that Judas sold Jesus because Judas was a thief (John 12:4–6).

Mark uses the word “good” in different ways to help us understand the two plans happening in these stories. In Mark 14:6, Jesus says that the woman’s action is “good” or “beautiful.” Then Jesus tells His followers that they can do “good” for the poor anytime (Mark 14:7), but Jesus won’t always be around for them to honor. In Mark 14:9, Jesus says the woman’s loving gift will be part of the Good News story that people share about Him. In Mark 14:11, Judas looks for a “good” time to sell Jesus to His enemies. The enemies’ awful plan to kill Jesus also will become part of the Good News about Jesus. Their plan to kill Jesus helps God’s plan to give His Son to save sinners.