---
title:  The Last Supper
date:   09/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 14:22–31 and Exodus 24:8. What does the story in Mark teach us about Christians and their faith?`

Mark 14:12 says that this story happens on the first day of the Unleavened Bread celebration. On this special day, the Passover lamb was killed (read Exodus 12). The Passover meal happens on Thursday evening.

At the Last Supper, Jesus starts a new celebration with His followers: the Lord’s Supper. The Lord’s Supper is connected with the Jewish Passover celebration and also with Israel’s leaving Egypt. When Israel left Egypt, they became God’s chosen people at Sinai. God made an agreement with His people there. In Exodus 24:8, Moses sprinkles the people with blood from an animal offering. Moses says, “ ‘This blood shows that the Lord has made a special agreement with you’ ” (Exodus 24:8, ERV).

At the Lord’s Supper, Jesus doesn’t use the lamb from the Passover meal. Why? Because Jesus is the Lamb of God (compare with John 1:29). The bread is a symbol for Jesus’ body. The New Promise (compare with Jeremiah 31:31–34) is made with the blood of Jesus. The cup is a symbol of His blood. Jesus says, “ ‘This is my blood which begins the new agreement that God makes with his people. This blood is poured out for many [people]’ ” (Mark 14:24, ICB).

Then Jesus announces that all of His followers will leave Him. Jesus says the words of Zechariah 13:7. This verse says that when the sword hits the shepherd, all the sheep run away. Jesus is the Shepherd. His followers are the sheep. Jesus’ message makes the followers sad. But Jesus adds words of hope. He promises His followers that He will wake up from the dead. Then He will go ahead of the followers to Galilee. Later, an angel in the form of a young man waits at Jesus’ empty grave. The angel shares the promise, in Mark 16:7, with the women who come to pour oil on Jesus’ body. So, this promise is important.

At the Last Supper, the followers have a hard time accepting Jesus’ words. Peter announces that everyone else may leave Jesus and runaway. But he will stay loyal to Jesus. Jesus says that before the rooster crows twice, Peter will say three times that he doesn’t know Jesus at all.

`Did you promise God something and then break your promise? What did you learn from this experience?`