---
title:  Gethsemane
date:   10/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 14:32–42. What did Jesus pray in the Garden of Gethsemane? How did God answer Jesus’ prayer?`

Jesus and His followers go across the Kidron Valley to a garden on the Mount of Olives. A mount is a very tall hill. The name Gethsemane means oil press. An oil press is a machine that squeezes oil from olives. This name suggests that there was an olive oil press somewhere nearby. No one today knows where the press was located. That’s because the Romans cut down all the trees on the Mount of Olives when they attacked Jerusalem in a.d. 70.

Jesus leaves most of His followers at the entrance to the garden. Then Jesus continues on with Peter, James, and John. But Jesus also leaves these three men and continues alone. Mark shows us that Jesus is feeling more and more lonely and alone as He gets ready to suffer for our sins.

Jesus prays for God to remove His suffering. But only if that is the Father’s plan for His Son (Mark 14:36). Jesus uses the Aramaic word “Abba,” which Mark writes as “Father.” “Abba” doesn’t mean “daddy,” as some people teach. The word for “daddy” in the Aramaic language is “abi.” A child used this name for his father. (Read Raymond E. Brown, The Death of the Messiah, Anchor Bible Reference Library [New York: Doubleday, 1994], volume 1, pages 172, 173.) But the word “abba” does mean a close family relationship, which shows that God wants to be close to us in our hearts.

Jesus prays for God to remove His suffering. But Jesus gives Himself in obedience to God’s plan for Him (compare with the Lord’s Prayer in Matthew 6:10). We soon see that God’s answer to Jesus’ prayer is no. God will not remove the terrible experience that Jesus must suffer. Why? Because Jesus must suffer for us to save us. We can’t be saved any other way.

We are glad to have friends who support us in hard times. In Philippians 4:13, Paul talks about how Jesus “is the one who gives me the strength I need to do whatever I must do” (ERV). Then Paul tells his friends, “But it was good that you helped me when I needed help” (verse 14, ERV). Jesus wanted help in Gethsemane. Three times He came to His followers for help and comfort. Three times they were sleeping. In the end, Jesus wakes them up to go to His trial. Jesus is ready. But His followers are not.