---
title:  Running Away From Jesus
date:   11/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 14:43–52. What happens in these verses that is so important to God’s plan to save us?`

We may feel surprised that one of Jesus’ closest friends sells Him to His enemies. Mark doesn’t give us a lot of information about why Judas turns against Jesus. But Ellen G. White writes, “Judas had a strong love for money. But he wasn’t evil enough in the past to do what he did now. He continued to let his love for money control his life until his love for money controlled him completely. Judas’s love for money was more powerful than his love for Jesus. Judas became a slave to money, and this slavery caused him to give himself to Satan to do whatever sin Satan wanted him to do.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 716, adapted.

Judas’s sin is made worse because he tries to hide it with friendship. Judas tells the crowd that the man he kisses is the one they should arrest.

The crowd arrests Jesus. Trouble starts. Someone pulls out a sword. John 18:10, 11 says Peter did it. Peter cuts off the ear of the servant of the high priest or top spiritual leader. Jesus talks to the mob. He scolds them for doing in secret what they were afraid to do in public when He taught them in the temple. But Jesus says the things that God promises about Him in the Old Testament must happen. So, we see God’s plan happens at the same time that evil men work to destroy Jesus.

All of Jesus’ followers run away, including Peter. But Peter comes back and follows behind Jesus. Shortly after, Peter gets himself in trouble. We also read in Mark 14:51, 52 about a young man who also followed Jesus. Matthew, Luke, and John don’t write about this young man in their books. Some people think this young man was Mark. But we have no proof. What is surprising is that the young man runs away without any clothes on his body. The young man does not leave everything to follow Jesus. The young man leaves everything to run away from Jesus.

`Think about what Ellen G. White wrote about Judas. Judas was the “slave” of one sin. That one sin caused him to sell Jesus to His enemies. What should this story tell us about why we need to hate sin and win the fight against it in Jesus’ strength?`