---
title:  Who Are You?
date:   12/09/2024
---

`Read Mark 14:60–72. Compare what Jesus does with what Peter did. How are their actions different? What can we learn from their choices and behavior?`

Mark 14:53–59 talks about how Jesus is brought to the Sanhedrin to stand trial. The Sanhedrin was the Jewish religious court in the time of Jesus. Again and again, the leaders try to accuse Jesus but without any success. Mark tells us how the witnesses against Jesus never agreed and that their stories against him were false.

Finally, the high priest or top spiritual leader stands and talks to Jesus. At first, Jesus doesn’t answer. But then the high priest puts Jesus under oath before God (read Matthew 26:63). The high priest asks Jesus if He is the Messiah, or Chosen One. Jesus says, “I am,” meaning that He is the Messiah (Mark 14:62). Then He says the quote from Daniel 7:13, 14. These verses talk about the Son of Man who sits at God’s right side and will come to earth with clouds from heaven. The high priest refuses to accept Jesus’ words about Himself. He tears his clothes and says that Jesus is guilty. The Sanhedrin agrees. The Jewish leaders spit on Jesus. Then they cover His face, beat Him, and ask Him to say who hits Him.

Meanwhile, Peter is outside lying about Jesus. (This is the 6th and final Sandwich Story. Read lesson 3 to review what we learned about Sandwich Stories.) Jesus reports the truth. Peter gives a false report. Three times servants or people from the crowd ask Peter if he knows Jesus. Each time Peter lies. Peter starts to use bad words to make people think he isn’t Jesus’ follower.

Just then, a rooster crows a second time. Peter remembers Jesus’ words that he would reject Jesus three times that very night. Peter starts to cry. At the end of His trial, Jesus wears a blindfold. As we just saw, men hit Jesus and command Him to say who hit Him. The men make fun of Jesus because they think He can’t see through the cloth. At this very time, Peter rejects Jesus a third time. In a strange way, when Peter rejects Jesus three times, he shows that Jesus is really God. That’s because Peter does just what Jesus said he would do (read Mark 14:30).

`What words of hope would you give to someone who wants to follow Jesus, but who fails at times to do so?`