---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   13/09/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Before Annas and the Court of Caiaphas,” and “Judas,” in _The Desire of Ages_, pages 698–722.

“Just as Peter finished saying that he didn’t know Jesus, the rooster crowed. At that instant, the Savior turned from the frowning judges. Jesus looked at His poor follower. In that instant, Peter looked at His Master’s eyes. Peter saw deep pity and sorrow in the Savior’s eyes. But there was no anger there.

“Peter looked at Jesus’ suffering face. The Savior’s face was white, and His lips trembled. Jesus’ suffering and His look of compassion and forgiveness cut Peter’s heart the same as an arrow. Peter remembered the promise He made Jesus a few short hours ago. Peter promised that he would go with his Lord to prison and to death. Peter remembered that he felt so sad when the Savior told him in the upper room that he would reject his Lord three times in the same night. Now Peter just finished announcing that he didn’t know Jesus at all. Peter felt bitter sorrow. He understood that his Lord knew him better than he knew himself. Jesus read Peter’s heart. Jesus saw the weakness inside Peter that Peter didn’t know was there.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, pages 712, 713.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read again Jesus’ words about the woman who poured perfume on His head. When we read her story, how are we part of the promise that Jesus made about her?`

`Compare Judas and Peter. What did they do to Jesus in the week before He died on the cross? How were these two men the same? How were they different?`

`Talk in class about the meaning of the Lord’s Supper. How can we help church members better understand the meaning of the Lord’s Supper? How can we get more members to celebrate it?`

`God said no to Jesus’ prayer in Gethsemane. What does it mean when God says no to us?`

`Peter failed, but Jesus didn’t reject him. What hope does this Bible truth give you?`