---
title:  Jesus, Our Faithful Brother
date:  15/01/2022
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Lev. 25:25–27; Heb. 2:14–16; Heb. 11:24–26; 1 Cor. 15:50; Heb. 5:8, 9; Heb. 12:1–4.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Inasmuch then as the children have partaken of flesh and blood, He Himself likewise shared in the same, that through death He might destroy him who had the power of death, that is the devil” (Hebrews 2:14, NKJV).

Hebrews 1 talks of Jesus as the Son of God, the ruler over the angels, and “the brightness of His glory and the express image of His person” (Heb. 1:3, NKJV). In Hebrews 2, Jesus is the Son of man, who was made lower than the angels and who adopted human nature with all its frailty, even to the point of death (Heb. 2:7).

In Hebrews 1, God says about Jesus: “ ‘You are My Son’ ” (Heb. 1:5, NKJV). In Hebrews 2, Jesus refers to human children as His “ ‘brethren’ ” (Heb. 2:12).

In Hebrews 1, the Father declares the Son’s divine sovereignty (Heb. 1:8–12). In Hebrews 2, the Son affirms His faithfulness to the Father (Heb. 2:13).

In Hebrews 1, Jesus is the divine Lord, Creator, Sustainer, and Sovereign. In Hebrews 2, Jesus is the human High Priest, merciful and faithful.

In summary, the presentation of Jesus as a faithful and merciful Brother is depicted in the description of the Son as the ultimate manifestation of the eternal Creator God (Heb. 1:1–4).

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, January 22._---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[Christ] came to this world in human form, to live a man amongst men. He assumed the liabilities of human nature, to be proved and tried. In His humanity He was a partaker of the divine nature. In His incarnation He gained in a new sense the title of the Son of God. Said the angel to Mary, “The power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God” (Luke 1:35). While the Son of a human being, He became the Son of God in a new sense. Thus He stood in our world—the Son of God, yet allied by birth to the human race.<br/>
Christ came in human form to show the inhabitants of the unfallen worlds and of the fallen world that ample provision has been made to enable human beings to live in loyalty to their Creator.—_Selected Messages_, book 1, pp. 226, 227.

[Christ] was tempted in all points like as man is tempted, yet He is called “that holy thing.” It is a mystery that is left unexplained to mortals that Christ could be tempted in all points like as we are, and yet be without sin. The incarnation of Christ has ever been, and will ever remain a mystery. That which is revealed, is for us and for our children, but let every human being be warned from the ground of making Christ altogether human, such an one as ourselves; for it cannot be. The exact time when humanity blended with divinity, it is not necessary for us to know. We are to keep our feet on the Rock Christ Jesus, as God revealed in humanity.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 5, pp. 1128, 1129.

Christ laid aside His royal robe, His kingly crown, and His high command, and stepped down, down, down, to the lowest depths of humiliation. Bearing human nature, He met all the temptations of humanity and in our behalf defeated the enemy on every point.<br/>
All this He did that He might bring men power by which they might be overcomers. “All power,” He says, “is given unto Me.” Matthew 28:18. And this He gives to all who will follow Him. They may demonstrate to the world the power that there is in the religion of Christ for the conquest of self.<br/>
“Learn of Me,” Christ says, “and ye shall find rest unto your souls.” Matthew 11:29. Why do we not learn of the Saviour every day? Why do we not live in constant communion with Him, so that in our connection with one another we can speak and act kindly and courteously? Why do we not honor the Lord by manifesting tenderness and love for one another? If we speak and act in harmony with the principles of heaven, unbelievers will be drawn to Christ by their association with us.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 9, p. 190.