---
title:  The Brother as a Model
date:  20/01/2022
---

Another reason Jesus adopted our human nature and lived among us was so that He could be our Example, the only One who could model for us what is the right way to live before God.

`Read Hebrews 12:1–4. According to the apostle, how should we run the race of the Christian life?`

In this passage Jesus is the culmination of a long list of characters whom the apostle provides as exemplars of faith. This passage calls Jesus “the founder and perfecter of our faith” (ESV). The Greek word archegos (“founder”) also can be translated “pioneer.” Jesus is the Pioneer of the race in the sense that He runs ahead of the believers. In fact, Hebrews 6:20 calls Jesus our “forerunner.” The word “perfecter” gives the idea that Jesus had displayed faith in God in the purest form possible. This passage teaches both that Jesus is the first one to have run our race with success and that He is the One who perfected the art of what living by faith is all about.

Hebrews 2:13 reads: “And again: ‘I will put My trust in Him.’ And again: ‘Here am I and the children whom God has given Me’ ” (NKJV). What is happening here is that Jesus said that He would put His trust in God. This reference is an allusion to Isaiah 8:17, 18.

Isaiah spoke these words in the face of a terrible threat of invasion from northern Israel and Syria (Isa. 7:1, 2). His faith contrasted the lack of faith of Ahaz, the king (2 Kings 16:5–18). God had exhorted Ahaz to trust in Him and to ask for a sign that He would deliver him (Isa. 7:1–11). God already had promised him, as a son of David, that He would protect Ahaz as His own son. Now, God graciously offered for Ahaz to confirm that promise with a sign from Him. Ahaz, however, refused to ask for a sign and, instead, sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser, king of Assyria, saying, “ ‘I am your servant and your son’ ” (2 Kings 16:7, NKJV). How sad! Ahaz preferred being the “son” of Tiglath-pileser to being the son of God.

Jesus, however, put His trust in God and in His promise that He would put His enemies under His feet (Heb. 1:13; Heb. 10:12, 13). God has made the same promise to us, and we need to believe Him, just as Jesus did (Rom. 16:20).

`How can we learn to put our trust in God by daily making choices that reflect this trust? What’s the next important choice you need to make, and how can you be sure that it does reveal trust in God?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Exemplify in the life the lessons given by Christ in His Sermon on the Mount. This will make a deeper impression and have a more lasting influence upon minds than will the sermons given from the pulpit. You may not be able to speak eloquently to those you desire to help; but if you speak modestly, hiding self in Christ, your words will be dictated by the Holy Spirit; and Christ, with whom you are co-operating, will impress the heart.<br/>
Exercise that faith which works by love and sanctifies the soul. Let none now make the Lord ashamed of them because of their unbelief. . . . Looking unto Jesus, not only as our Example, but as the Author and Finisher of our faith, let us go forward, having confidence that He will supply strength for every duty.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 6, p. 472.

By acquaintance and association with Christ we may become like Him, the one faultless Example.<br/>
Communion with Christ—how unspeakably precious! Such communion it is our privilege to enjoy if we will seek it, if we will make any sacrifice to secure it. When the early disciples heard the words of Christ, they felt their need of Him. They sought, they found, they followed Him. They were with Him in the house, at the table, in the closet, in the field. They were with Him as pupils with a teacher, daily receiving from His lips lessons of holy truth. They looked to Him as servants to their master, to learn their duty. They served Him cheerfully, gladly. They followed Him, as soldiers follow their commander, fighting the good fight of faith. “And they that are with Him are called, and chosen, and faithful.” . . .<br/>
. . . This conformity to Jesus will not be unobserved by the world. It is a subject of notice and comment. The Christian may not be conscious of the great change; for the more closely he resembles Christ in character the more humble will be his opinion of himself; but it will be seen and felt by all around him. Those who have had the deepest experience in the things of God are the farthest removed from pride or self-exaltation. They have the humblest thoughts of self, and the most exalted conceptions of the glory and excellence of Christ. They feel that the lowest place in His service is too honorable for them.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 5, pp. 222, 223.

Christ came to break the shackles of sin-slavery from the soul. “If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.” “The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus” sets us “free from the law of sin and death.” Romans 8:2.<br/>
In the work of redemption there is no compulsion. No external force is employed. Under the influence of the Spirit of God, man is left free to choose whom he will serve.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 466.