---
title:  Further Thought
date:  21/01/2022
---

Hebrews 2:13 contains the words of Jesus to His Father talking about His brethren: “ ‘Here am I and the children whom God has given Me’ ” (Heb. 2:13, NKJV). Patrick Gray suggests that Jesus is described here as the Guardian of His brothers. The Roman system of tutela impuberum determined that at their father’s death, “a tutor, often an older brother, became responsible for the care of minor children and their inheritance until they reached the age of majority, thus heightening the older brother’s natural duty to take care of his younger siblings.”—Godly Fear: The Epistle to the Hebrews and Greco-Roman Critiques of Superstition (Atlanta: Society of Biblical Literature, 2003), p. 126. This explains why Hebrews refers to us both as the siblings of Jesus and as His children. As our older Brother, Jesus is our Tutor, our Guardian, and Protector.

“Christ came to the earth, taking humanity and standing as man’s representative, to show in the controversy with Satan that man, as God created him, connected with the Father and the Son, could obey every divine requirement.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, p. 253.

“In His life and lessons, Christ has given a perfect exemplification of the unselfish ministry which has its origin in God. God does not live for Himself. By creating the world, and by upholding all things, He is constantly ministering for others. ‘He maketh His sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.’ Matt. 5:45. This ideal of ministry God has committed to His Son. Jesus was given to stand at the head of humanity, that by His example He might teach what it means to minister.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 649.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Hebrews tells us that Jesus became our Brother in order to save us. Think about what that means in terms of what God did in order to save us. Why, then, would turning our back on this amazing reality be such a tragic mistake?`

`Why is it important for us that Jesus was not born “sold under sin” as we are (Rom. 7:14)? Think about Moses, and why it was important for the Israelites that he was not a slave as they were. How does the story of Moses, in a small way, help us understand what Jesus has done for us?`

`Dwell more on the role of suffering in our lives. Why must we never think that suffering, in and of itself, is good, even if sometimes some good can come out of it?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_In Heavenly Places_, “Wonderful Condescension!” p. 40;<br/>
_Steps to Christ_, “Consecration,” pp. 43, 44.<br/>