---
title:  History Repeated
date:  10/06/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Revelation 14:9–11**

**History Repeated**

In the fifteenth century the Piedmont valleys, high in the Alps of northern Italy, were home to the Waldenses, a people determined to stay faithful to their understanding of the Bible. As the result of their steadfast loyalty to Christ, they were fiercely persecuted. In a.d. 1488 the Waldenses in the Valley of Loyse were brutally murdered by the Roman Church for their faith.

Another wave of persecution against the Waldenses came in the seventeenth century, when the duke of Savoy sent an army of 8,000 into their territory and demanded that the local populace quarter his troops in their homes. The people did as he requested, but the command was a strategy to give the soldiers easy access to their victims. On April 24, 1655, at 4:00 a.m., a signal was given for the massacre to begin. This time the death toll was more than 4,000.

History, unfortunately, is often repeated. The mark of the beast prophecy is about the final link in an evil chain of religious persecution that goes back through the ages. Like the persecutions of the past, it is designed to force everyone to conform to a certain set of beliefs and system of worship. As always, however, God will have a people group who refuse to submit.

#### inScribe

Write out Revelation 14:9–11 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `