---
title:  Evil Rising and Truth Falling
date:  11/06/2023
---

#### inGest

As we have already studied, the beast powers of Revelation 13 and 14 represent a worldwide system of false worship. But there’s more.

The beast would continue for a specific duration of time. In symbolic time prophecies, a prophetic day equals a literal year, an idea that is supported by Numbers 14:34: “for every day a year” (RSV). Again, God says, “I have appointed thee each day for a year” (Ezek. 4:6, KJV). This principle has repeatedly proven itself accurate in interpreting biblical time prophecies, such as with the 70 weeks of Daniel 9:24–27. Calculating the time period of 42 months mentioned in Revelation 13:5, with 30 days in a month, we come up with 1,260 prophetic days, or literal years. The ancient calendars regularly had 360 days per year.

In the fourth century the Roman emperor Constantine legalized Christianity throughout the empire. When he moved his capital in a.d. 330 to Byzantium to unite the eastern and western parts of his empire, it left a political vacuum in Rome. The pope then filled this void, becoming not only a powerful religious leader but also a political force to be reckoned with. In a.d. 538 Justinian, the Roman emperor, officially granted the Roman bishop the role of the defender of the faith. The medieval church exercised great influence from a.d. 538 to a.d. 1798, including during the terrible persecution mentioned in the introduction to this lesson. Napoleon’s general Berthier took the pope captive in a.d. 1798, in exact fulfillment of the prophecy—exactly 1,260 years after the pope came to power in a.d. 538.

Berthier and his army captured Pope Pius VI and unceremoniously removed him from the papal throne. The blow to the Papacy was serious, but, according to Revelation 13:12, the deadly wound would be healed and the world would hear more from this power.

The apostle Paul warned the Christian community of a “falling away” from the truth of God’s Word. He was concerned about the seeds of apostasy already present in the New Testament church, which would flourish in the coming centuries before the second coming of Christ. A counterfeit gospel would come into the church, distorting the Word of God.

Satan is the one behind this apostasy. He is the true “man of sin” who desires to exalt “himself above all that is called God” and sit in the “temple of God” as if he himself is God (2 Thess. 2:3, 4). The “great deceiver” works through human agencies to accomplish his purposes. The identifying characteristics in Daniel and Revelation reveal that the little horn of Daniel 7, the sea beast of Revelation 13, and the “lawless one” of 2 Thessalonians 2 represent the same entity.

The SDA Bible Commentary states it this way: “A comparison with Daniel’s prophecy of the blasphemous power that succeeds that of pagan Rome . . . and with John’s word picture of the leopardlike beast . . . reveals many similarities between the three descriptions [the little horn, the beast power, and the lawless one]. This leads us to the conclusion that Daniel, Paul, and John are speaking of the same power, . . . the papacy” (vol. 7, p. 271).

It is extremely important to remember that these biblical prophecies are describing a system of religion that has compromised God’s Word, substituted human traditions for the gospel, and drifted away from biblical truth. They are given by a God of incredible love to prepare a people for the coming of Christ as well as to rebuke the apostate religious organizations that have departed from God’s Word. However, it is important to note that though He rebukes the corrupt systems of religion, He does not necessarily rebuke the people in them (see Rev. 18:4). The three angels’ messages expose a system that has deceived millions. Though deceived, these people are much loved by Christ. We must treat them accordingly.

Journal:

`Pause and think how amazing biblical prophecy is and how it reveals to us God’s knowledge of future events. What should this teach us about why we can trust the Lord’s promises, even the ones we don’t yet see fulfilled?`

`How can we apply Matthew 7:12 in dealing with the theme of the beast powers in Revelation 13 and 14?`

` `