---
title:  Satan’s Final Strategy
date:  12/06/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Surveys reveal a deep lack of trust in institutions and governments. Millions wonder where—or if—we can find someone who is morally fit to lead the world. Revelation’s prophecies identify the beast power as the one who, under the auspices of a religiopolitical union, will be perceived as fit to fill this role.

There are three significant points John makes in Revelation 17:12–14: First, the political powers have “one mind” and “give their power and authority” to the beast. Second, this conglomerate alliance of error makes war against Jesus the Lamb. Third, in earth’s last war, Christ and His followers are triumphant. The beast does not win; Jesus does.

Have you ever wondered what strategy the devil might use to unite the nations? As observed in the recurrent times of persecution, history often repeats itself. We therefore discover valuable lessons from the collapse of the Roman Empire. When the Germanic invasions from the north threatened Western Europe, the Roman emperor Constantine turned to religion. The authority of the church combined with the power of the state became the very instrument Constantine needed. The continual strengthening of the idea of a sacred Sunday in the fourth century was a calculated political and religious move to unite the empire in a time of crisis. Constantine wanted his empire united, and the Roman Church wanted it “converted.” The renowned historian Arthur Weigall states it clearly: “The church made a sacred day of Sunday . . . largely because it was the weekly festival of the sun; for it was a definite Christian policy to take over the pagan festivals endeared to the people by tradition and give them Christian significance” (The Paganism in Our Christianity [New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1928], p. 145).

At a time of great crisis, when all the world is scared, hurting, and fearful, people will be desperate for someone to bring stability and protection. This is how tyranny has arisen in the past, and there’s no reason to think it could not happen again. According to prophecy, something will bring about these final events.

Though it’s impossible to know how all this will unfold, the world has already seen how great changes can come—sometimes very quickly. Though we don’t know details about what is coming, we need to be ready for whatever it is.

Revelation 14:9 and 14:12 describe two distinct groups. One worships the beast, and one has the faith of Jesus and keeps the commandments of God—including the fourth, the one commandment the beast power thought to change. That’s the contrast. Working through the sea and land beasts, the devil attempts to undermine God’s authority by attacking the heart of worship—namely, the Sabbath. The mark of the beast is placed either on the forehead or the hand. The forehead is a symbol of the mind, where conscience, reason, and judgment are located. The hand, in contrast, is a symbol of actions and deeds.

“We have tended to overlook the fact that Sunday is the day of worship of the opposing forces . . . in the story line of the Book of Revelation. Sunday is an extremely important symbol, revealing the unbelievable craftiness and sophistry of the dragon. . . . This . . . change of God’s law expresses in one simple action the very essence of the hatred of the dragon against God in the cosmic conflict. Its simplicity is highly deceptive. The dragon has sought to usurp God’s place in the cosmos by depicting himself as the true object of worship and arguing that God’s law is unjust—that it should be changed. The dragon changed the law at the juncture within the Decalogue where God is identified as Creator and Redeemer, the only one worthy of worship (Exod. 20:8–11; Deut. 5; cf. Rev. 4:11; 5:9, 13, 14). The change of the law manifests not only the dragon’s hatred for the will of the Lord (the law), but it is also his attempt to usurp God’s place by becoming the object of worship. . . . The universalization of this change in the law would assure him victory. (Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, “The Closing of the Cosmic Conflict: Role of the Three Angels’ Messages,” unpublished manuscript, 53, 54).

The day is coming, possibly sooner than we think, when laws restricting our religious liberty will be passed. Those who diligently follow the Word of God and keep the true Sabbath of the Lord will be labeled as opposers of unity and of the overall good of society.

Revelation predicts that in the future, at a time of international crisis, our world is going to face some kind of radical political, social, religious, and moral transformation, in which Sundaykeeping will be enforced and will become “the mark of the beast.” Interestingly, or perhaps tellingly, the church of Rome claims that Sunday is the “mark” of its ecclesiastical authority: “Of course the Catholic Church claims that the change was her act. . . . And the act is a mark of her ecclesiastical power and authority in religious matters” (American Catholic Quarterly Review, January 1883). Again, we have not been told how all of this will unfold. Scripture gives us only broad outlines, but enough to show us that the great controversy is going to climax around the issue of worshiping either the beast or the Creator, and that the seventh-day Sabbath will play a central role in the conflict.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`In what ways has humanity always been divided along the lines of being on either God’s side or on Satan’s? Why can there be no middle ground?`

` `