---
title:  The Sabbath Test
date:  14/06/2023
---

#### inVite

Perhaps even now, the stage is being set for this impending persecution. On June 6, 2012, Pope Benedict XVI made an urgent appeal to more than 15,000 people gathered in St. Peter’s Square in Rome, proclaiming that Sunday must be a day of rest for everyone so that people can be free to be with their families and with God. “By defending Sunday, one defends human freedom.” This, of course, isn’t the same thing as demanding that others keep this day as opposed to the biblical Sabbath, but it does show that the idea of Sunday as the “day of rest” is a real issue. Laws will be passed sooner or later, and those who faithfully follow the Word of God and keep the true Sabbath will be labeled opposers to society’s best interests.

In this time of crisis God’s faithful people will, by His grace and through His power, stand firm in their convictions to follow Him. They will not yield to the pressure. Instead of the mark of the beast, they will receive the seal of God. In ancient times seals were used to attest to the authenticity of official documents. We would then expect to find God’s seal embedded in His law. Ancient seals were a distinctive, individualized mark. Isaiah the prophet says, “Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples” (Isa. 8:16).

The fourth commandment contains three elements of an authentic seal: first, the name of the Sealer: “The Lord your God” (Exod. 20:10); second, the title of the Sealer: the Lord who “made,” or the Creator (verse 11); and third, the territory of the Sealer: “the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them” (verse 11). According to Revelation 7:1–3, the seal of God is placed only on our foreheads, a symbol of our minds. Jesus respects our freedom of choice. He invites us to let Him shape our minds by His Holy Spirit so that we cannot be moved from the anchor of our faith in the Word of God (Eph. 4:30). Thus, we understand that the faithful are those who “keep the commandments of God, and [have] the faith of Jesus” (Rev. 14:12), and included in those commandments is the fourth, the one commandment the beast power thought to change.

Journal:

`Meditate on this week’s passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What conditions can you see currently developing that could potentially lead to the restrictions of our religious liberty? What obstacles remain, as well?`

`How do you see Jesus differently after this week’s study?`

` `