---
title:  Further Thought
date:  10/07/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Calvary,” pp. 741–757, in The Desire of Ages.

“To the minds of multitudes living at the present time, the cross of Calvary is surrounded by sacred memories. Hallowed associations are connected with the scenes of the crucifixion. But in Paul’s day the cross was regarded with feelings of repulsion and horror. To uphold as the Saviour of mankind one who had met death on the cross, would naturally call forth ridicule and opposition.

“Paul well knew how his message would be regarded by both the Jews and the Greeks of Corinth. . . . Among his Jewish hearers there were many who would be angered by the message he was about to proclaim. In the estimation of the Greeks his words would be absurd folly. He would be looked upon as weak-minded for attempting to show how the cross could have any connection with the elevation of the race or the salvation of mankind.

“But to Paul the cross was the one object of supreme interest. Ever since he had been arrested in his career of persecution against the followers of the crucified Nazarene he had never ceased to glory in the cross. At that time there had been given him a revelation of the infinite love of God, as revealed in the death of Christ; and a marvelous transformation had been wrought in his life, bringing all his plans and purposes into harmony with heaven. . . . He knew by personal experience that when a sinner once beholds the love of the Father, as seen in the sacrifice of His Son, and yields to the divine influence, a change of heart takes place, and henceforth Christ is all and in all.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 245, 246.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus said, “O My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from Me” (Matt. 26:39, NKJV). What does this prayer say about the immense price Jesus paid on the cross?`

`Paul says, “The foolishness of God is wiser than men” (1 Cor. 1:25, NKJV). In what ways is the wisdom of God so different from human wisdom?`

`The message of a crucified Christ was a stumbling block for the Jews and foolishness for the Greeks. What biblical themes that we preach today can produce the same effect in modern audiences, and why?`

`Paul says that “the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God” (1 Cor. 2:14, NKJV). So, how can we speak about Jesus to these people in a way that could touch their hearts? Or maybe our actions alone will reach them.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Lift Him Up, “Love and Justice Harmonized,” August 26, p. 252.\
God’s Amazing Grace, “Heaven Itself Imperiled,” June 16, p. 175.\