---
title:  Living With Jesus
date:   07/03/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Colossians 3:1–14; Romans 6:1–7; Ephesians 4:22–24; Romans 3:28.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “And you must also love each other. That is the most important thing that you should do. Love holds all these good things completely together” (Colossians 3:14, EASY).

Do you know the saying, “Don’t wish too much for things that belong to heaven. If you do, you won’t be useful to anyone on this earth”? There’s some truth to this saying. But Paul teaches us an idea in Colossians 3 that’s important: if we only want the things from this life, we won’t be of any good use to the Lord.

Paul teaches us important rules for everyday real life. These rules come from heaven. Only people who wake up from the dead with Jesus can understand these rules (Colossians 3:1). Paul’s advice will help make all our relationships better, and not just in the church.

Jesus said, “ ‘But I tell you, love your enemies. Pray for those people who hurt you. If you do this [love and pray], then you will be true sons of your Father in heaven. Your Father causes the sun to rise on good people and on bad people. Your Father sends rain to those [people] who do good and to those who do wrong’ ” (Matthew 5:44, 45, ICB).

Love our enemies? Is that too hard to do? Yes, for us humans. We must die to self before we can really live for God. So, we must think about heaven more than we do. Then our Father in heaven can use us to do good on this earth.

This week, we’ll learn how living with Jesus can make things better, now and in the future.