---
title:  Wanting the Things That Belong to Heaven
date:   08/03/2026
---

`What does Paul say we need to have as Christians? How will doing these things help us more and more to want the things that belong to heaven? Why do you think Paul says what he does? Read Colossians 3:1–4 for the answers.`

In Colossians 3, Paul talks about the things that are in heaven: “God has raised you [woke you up from spiritual death] with Christ [Jesus] to a new life. So you should want more and more the things that belong to heaven. That is where Christ is now. He sits there at God's right side. So think about the good things that are there in heaven above. Do not think only about things that are on the earth. Remember that your old nature [self] has died. God is keeping your new life safe with Christ. You have that new life because you belong to Christ. One day, Christ will show himself clearly to everyone. Then everyone will see that you are with him. They will see that you also are great [filled with God’s shining beauty], like [the same as] he is” (Colossians 3:1–4, EASY).

We cannot explain many things in the Christian life. How do Christians really “die” and “wake up” to a new life in Jesus? How can this change happen when they look the same as before and they didn’t have a real life-and-death experience? Without the Holy Spirit’s help, we will have a hard time understanding many Bible truths or spiritual experiences. But if we accept God’s promise of a new heart, we understand what it means to wake up with Jesus. As the hymn says, “You ask me how I know He lives? He lives within my heart.”

Paul gives Christians the commands in Colossians 3:1–4 for an important reason. He knows that our spiritual lives must be made new every day (read 2 Corinthians 4:16). We can sin again and be lost! We are never safe from sin in this life.

So, we must choose every day to “live for what is in ­heaven” (Colossians 3:1, ERV). “God is keeping your new life safe with Christ” (Colossians 3:3, EASY). But people will know we are Christians because we show that God’s love lives in our hearts.

`What do you think about the most: heaven or life on this earth? If you said this life, how can you change that?`