---
title:  Remove Everything Evil From Your Life
date:   09/03/2026
---

`Read Colossians 3:5, 6 (also read Romans 6:1–7). How do we die to self and sin? How do we stop wanting the evil things in this life? Also, how do we “live for what is in heaven” (Colossians 3:1, ERV)?`

First, we must die a spiritual death with Jesus. Then we must stop wanting the evil things in this life. Our bodies and minds may want many things that aren’t good for us. So, we need to die to those sins, too. We need to remove all evil things from our lives.

But we must understand two things in connection with this command. First, as we see in Colossians 3:1, we must be alive in Jesus. We must be living a new life in Him. Second, the command in Colossians 3:5 happens because we are alive in the Lord. We can remove evil things from our lives because we have Jesus’ spiritual life. He gives us the power to remove sin and evil from our minds and lives. “God’s anger is going to come because of these things” (Colossians 3:6, NIrV).

The Bible also uses these same words, “God’s anger,” in Romans 1:18: “God’s anger is shown from heaven against all the evil and wrong things that people do” (ICB). “So God let those people do all the bad things that they wanted to do” (Romans 1:24, EASY). Because of these sins, “the special day of Their [the Father’s and the Son’s] anger has [will] come!” (Revelation 6:17, NLV). Then “God will certainly punish people who do those kinds [types] of bad things” (Colossians 3:6, EASY). In Romans 1:18, Paul talks about “the evil and wrong things that people do” (Romans 1:18, ERV). “So God let those people do all the bad things that they wanted to do. God let those disgusting [awful] things rule [control] their lives. As a result [because of this choice], they [these people] did bad things with each other’s bodies. They did things that people should be ashamed to do” (Romans 1:24, EASY).

What bad things do these people do with their bodies? “The women stopped having sex in a way which is proper [lawful]. Instead [then], they began to have sex with other women, which is not proper. Also, the men stopped having sex with women. Instead, they strongly wanted to have sex with other men. Men did bad things with other men that they should be ashamed about” (Romans 1:26, 27, EASY). They do these things because they rejected the God who made them.