---
title:  The True Knowledge of Jesus
date:   10/03/2026
---

`Read Colossians 3:6–11. What is Paul’s message in these verses?`

The words of Colossians 3:8 talk about a big change from death to life. “So put everything evil out of your life” (Colossians 3:5, ERV). “Refuse to do all kinds [types] of things like [the same as] that. Do not become angry with people or shout at them. Do not do anything or say anything that will hurt other people. Do not speak any bad or disgusting [evil] words” (Colossians 3:8, EASY).

Not all anger is bad. God gets angry at sin. So does Jesus (Mark 3:5; Revelation 6:16). God’s anger is holy. Because we are human, the Bible warns us, “When you are angry, don’t let that anger make you sin” (Ephesians 4:26, ERV). That’s why James says, “Always be more willing to listen than to speak. Keep control of your anger. Anger does not help you live the way God wants” (James 1:19, 20, ERV). We have left our old life of sin (Colossians 3:9). So, we must not lie to each other (compare Leviticus 19:11, 18).

`Paul talks about the old self or old life. What does that mean? How does that compare with the new life? Read Romans 6:6 and Ephesians 4:22–24 for the answers.`

When we die to self, God gives us a new life. He “writes” His law on our hearts. That is the same as saying that God puts love for His law in our hearts (2 Corinthians 3:4–18). He gives us the strength to obey Him.

These symbols help us to understand that when we belong to Jesus, He makes our lives new (2 Corinthians 5:17). “You have begun to live the new life. In your new life you are being made new. You are becoming like [the same as] the One [Jesus] who made you. This new life brings you the true knowledge of God” (Colossians 3:10, ICB). “Jesus Christ shows us completely who God is” (Colossians 1:15, EASY). The Bible teaches us about Jesus. When we know Jesus, He will change “us so that we become more and more like [much the same as] him” (2 Corinthians 3:18, EASY). Then we will show His perfect beauty and love more and more (2 Corinthians 3:18). When we belong to Jesus, it doesn’t matter if we are rich or poor, Jews or non-Jews. We all become members of the kingdom of God (Colossians 3:11).