---
title:  A New Life in Jesus
date:   11/03/2026
---

`How should God’s people live? Read Colossians 3:12–14 for the answer.`

In Old Testament times, God chose Israel to be His special people. God wanted Israel to show people who He was. In the same way, Jesus chose Christians “to be his own special people” (Colossians 3:12, EASY). He invites them to live a new life. But not every Christian accepts this invitation. As Jesus says, “ ‘God asks many people to come to him. But he only chooses a few people to be there with him’ ” (Matthew 22:14, EASY; compare with Matthew 24:22, 24, 31). Paul also talks about God’s chosen people in much the same way that Jesus does (Romans 8:33; 2 Timothy 2:10). God loves His people. He makes them holy (Deuteronomy 7:6–8). God gives His people special work to do for Him. Peter says, “God chose you to tell about the wonderful things he has done” (1 Peter 2:9, ICB). We do that with how we live now.

Paul makes a list of what we should do: “So this is how you should live: be kind to other people and help them. Do not think that you are better than other people. Instead [but], respect them and be patient with them. Do not become angry with each other. If you think that someone has done something wrong against you, forgive them. Remember that the Lord has forgiven you. So you should also forgive other people. And you must also love each other” (Colossians 3:12–14, EASY). We can do these things only if our hearts are connected to Jesus. The things Paul asks us to do are the things Jesus does for us. So, we must love and forgive each other. God’s love for us gives us the strength to really love other people (1 John 4:11, 12).

When we live the way Paul says, we will bring blessings to other people. We will be happy. Most people will show us love and respect when we are loving to them. God will continue to fill us with His love and forgiveness (Matthew 5:7; Matthew 6:14). When we show God’s love to other people, we give God praise and honor. Other people may choose to follow Jesus when they see our example. “A life that is not selfish is very powerful. More than anything, a loving Christian who shows God’s love to other people shows that the Good News about Jesus is real.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, page 470, adapted.