---
title:  Living the New Life
date:   12/03/2026
---

Paul wants church members to work together for peace in the church (Colossians 3). We already looked at God’s peace (read Lesson 7). The peace of Jesus is meant to control our hearts. That can happen only if Jesus is in control of our lives.

`What allows Jesus to be in control of our lives? What part does music have in our new life in Jesus? Read Colossians 3:16, 17 for the answers.`

Paul says, “Let the teaching of Christ and His words keep on living in you” (Colossians 3:16, NLV). Jesus wants to live in our hearts. That happens when we read the Bible to learn God’s wisdom. Music has an important part in helping us learn about God (Colossians 3:16).

But not just any music. Paul uses very careful language here and in Ephesians 5:19 to talk about music. We should “sing psalms [songs and poems], hymns, and spiritual songs” (Colossians 3:16, ICB; also read Ephesians 5:19). These songs are the music that God accepts.

A psalm is a song or poem. The book of Psalms is the name of the collection of songs and poems in the Old Testament. Hymns may mean the collection of New Testament songs that Christians sang. Spiritual songs may be any song of praise about spiritual life or the life of the church. The words of the songs teach Bible truth. The songs teach people how to live as Christians. Many beautiful hymns were written in the past few hundred years. These hymns have powerful messages of hope. They lift up our hearts.

For sure, music is powerful. When David played his harp, King Saul felt better (1 Samuel 16:23). Studies show that some types of music can be very healing. Music can help us feel peaceful. Music also can help the brain to think more clearly. Music can help us relax, too, and get rid of pain. Music can help our relationships with people.

Music can be good or bad. But we all can agree that it can change our thoughts and feelings. Music, the right music, can bring us close to God.

`“Always thank God the Father in the way that you serve Jesus” (Colossians 3:17, EASY). How do you do that in your life now? If you don’t, how can you change? What must you stop doing now if you can’t do it in the name of the Lord?`