---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   13/03/2026
---

“When God’s Spirit controls the mind and heart, we will sing a new song. We understand that God keeps His promise to us. God forgives our sins. He removes them from us. We feel sorry that we sinned in the past. We are sorry that we broke God’s law. We have faith in Jesus. He died so that we may be clean. ‘But God’s gift makes people right [accepted] with him.’ Romans 5:21 [EASY]. We have peace with God because of Jesus. . . .

“We need power to live a holy life. We think too much about life on this earth. We don’t think enough about the kingdom of heaven. . . .

“Christians must try hard to become what God wants them to be. But they must not feel sad if they make mistakes. God promises to make us clean and holy. He gives us His love and forgiveness. He promises to give us Jesus’ strength to help us. Jesus gives us all the power we need to be clean and holy. All life starts with Jesus. . . . Jesus will help us. He sends us help from heaven. In all our efforts to come to God, we touch His living power.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 476–478, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Paul says, “A person becomes right [accepted] with God if they trust in Christ [Jesus]” (Romans 3:28, EASY). What is your experience with this promise? How did this wonderful promise change your life? How does this promise help you understand the idea of what it means to live a new life in Jesus?`

`What does it mean to you to want more and more the things that belong to heaven? Is wanting the things of heaven more important than doing good things on this earth? Explain your answer.`

`Think about how your life changes the lives of other people, for good or bad. What about our life as a church? How does our local church change the community around us for the better?`

`Read Colossians 3:11. What does this verse tell us about church members working together for peace in the church with Jesus?`