---
title:  Mutual Servants
date:  02/12/2018
---

**Evidence**: 2 Cor. 5:18–21

It is not rocket science that when two people are at odds, there needs to be a sense of mutual understanding and mutual change for healing to take place. There are always the proverbial “two sides to a story,” and for healing to occur it is necessary for both sides to be explored. Forgiveness may be the hardest standard that God puts before us because it is contrary to human nature to administer mercy instead of punishment when undisputed, purposeful wrong has been committed. Yet “reconciliation” is not only suggested but presented as an absolute for those who are followers of Jesus.

The word reconcile comes from a compound Greek word meaning “to change mutually,” a clear indicator of what God requires in our personal conflicts. Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians 5:18–21 that the followers of Jesus are His ambassadors who have been given the “ministry” and the “message” of reconciliation. The word ministry in the Greek indicates the physical attendance of a servant, while the word message reflects a verbal exchange. As we serve Jesus as ambassadors of His kingdom, it is necessary that we are willing to see controversies through the eyes of those to whom we minister, and when conflicts arise, we continue with both the words and actions of the Most High King whom we represent. Though the Word of God is never to be compromised, there are situations in which mutual change is not only preferred but actually mandatory for unity to exist.

With this meaning of the word reconcile in mind, how do we apply Paul’s explanation that in Christ God was reconciling the world to Himself (verse 18)? We see that all humanity needs to change in order to be united with God, but can we expect “mutual change” from the King of the universe who boldly states, “ ‘I the Lord do not change’ ” (Mal. 3:6, NIV)? This is not a “reconciliation” of equals or a conflict between brothers or sisters. The reconciliation suggested here is between the Most Powerful and the most powerless. Can God be a part of such mutual change?

The answer becomes apparent as Paul emphasizes the change that God chose to make in order to facilitate reconciliation: “For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God” (2 Cor. 5:21, ESV).

Jesus has already made the greatest change of all—and awaits the mutuality of human response. What does Jesus’ change teach us about reconciliation in our own lives?

---

_Kandace Zollman, Smithsburg, Maryland, USA_