---
title:  'You and Me: Unity Through Forgiveness'
date:  04/12/2018
---

**Testimony**: Matt. 18:15

It is important for us to remember that we are all human beings, and we all have and will fall short of the glory of God. Matthew 18:15 has an important insight on how to deal with those circumstances, when we see a friend— Christian or not—display a demeanor that is not conducive to what is right or moral. We, as followers of Christ, should not gossip and tell others about their actions. We should, instead, go to the source of the concern and address the issue; after all, the fastest way to kill a weed is by destroying the root.

According to Ellen White, when someone acts in the opposite way from the guideline laid out in Matthew 18, “injustice is done because of an unwillingness on the part of someone to follow the directions given by the Lord Jesus.”1

She also says, “He in whose heart Christ abides recognizes Christ abiding in the heart of his brother. Christ never wars against Christ. Christ never exerts an influence against Christ. Christians are to do their work, whatever it may be, in the unity of the Spirit, for the perfecting of the whole body.”2

When we do not follow Christ’s instructions to handle a situation in which there is division, we are essentially declaring war on ourselves. However, when we lovingly approach others whom we are at odds with, we are able to work together toward reconciliation.

“Christian unity is a mighty agency. It tells in a powerful manner that those who possess it are children of God. It has an irresistible influence upon the world, showing that man in his humanity may be a partaker of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. We are to be one with our fellow men and with Christ, and in Christ one with God. Then of us can be spoken the words, ‘Ye are complete in Him.’ ”3

**React**

`1. Have you ever had a fellow believer discuss a difficult issue (or gossip) with someone other than you? Have you ever discussed someone’s issues with someone other than the person involved?`

`2. In what ways do you need to grow so that you can emulate the ideas of forgiveness and unity, and thus be a light to the world?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers, p. 498.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, My Life Today, p. 277.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., p. 276.</sup>

_Nathan Zollman, Chattanooga, Tennessee, USA_