---
title:  'Trust: The Key Ingredient in Unity'
date:  05/12/2018
---

**How-to**: Matt. 18:15–17;2 Cor. 5:20, 21; Philem. 1–25

My online accounts have passwords, and I don’t write them down anywhere. I lock my doors. I have identity-theft insurance. I am convinced that if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. We spend time and money to protect ourselves because of our suspicions regarding the intentions and motives of others. We try to protect our property, our reputations, our wellbeing, and our emotions because we have learned that there are untrustworthy people.

In order for a relationship to grow and thrive, there must be trust. Trust is the foundation of any positive interpersonal interaction. When it comes to the body of Christ, we will move closer to God only if we trust Him, and we will develop unity among fellow believers only if we trust one another.

“Whether you define trust as mutual confidence or loyalty or ethical behavior, or whether you deal with its fruits of empowerment and teamwork and synergy, trust is the ultimate root and source of our influence.”1

Here are a few steps to develop trust among the followers of Christ: Be a trustworthy person. Jesus went about doing good and did so with pure motives (Acts 10:38). We must be people of integrity, desire the best interests of those around us, follow the golden rule (Matt. 7:12), and even be willing to sacrifice our personal benefit for a greater good (1 Cor. 6:1–8).

Seek reconciliation when relationships are strained. Misunderstandings, miscommunications, and stresses on trust are an inescapable part of life. In Matthew 18:15–17, Jesus outlined the steps we are to take when we are faced with the inevitable obstacles to trust. Throughout the process, Jesus emphasized restoring the relationship.

Trust wisely. We are not called to blind trust or to unhealthy suspicion. God told us there will, unfortunately, be untrustworthy people, even professed Christians. “Test all things, hold fast what is good” (1 Thess. 5:21, NKJV).

Trust God. Believe that God will cause all things to work together for good (Rom. 8:28). When we trust that God will bring about what is best for us (Dan. 3:16–18) and that He has promised us eternal life, taking the risk to trust brings little to lose and much to gain.

---

_Daniel Royo, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_