---
title:  No Longer an Enemy
date:  06/12/2018
---

**Opinion**: Rom. 5:8–11

When you think of the word enemy, what comes to your mind? Maybe you think of a villain from one of your most-read books, or perhaps you think of a sinister movie character. Perhaps you even think of your favorite superhero in their superhero garb, fighting evil and saving the day. In these instances, it’s generally easy to divide the “good guys” from the “bad guys.”

Here’s a harder question: have you ever had an enemy? Perhaps it was someone who used to be a friend and no longer is because of a falling out. In real life, it is frequently less simplistic to divide the good and bad—there’s much more gray area in the real world.

Now, here’s the hardest question: have you ever considered yourself to be the enemy? And, more seriously, have you ever considered yourself God’s enemy?

If you read Romans 5:8–11, you’ll see that each of us was considered God’s enemy before the death of Jesus. However, because of Jesus’ death on the cross, we are reconciled with God. 1 John 3 takes it even further, saying that because of the love of the Father, we are called His children.

I don’t know about you, but I don’t like to think about being God’s enemy. It makes me feel uncomfortable and a bit hopeless. However, it also makes me feel incredibly thankful for the gift of salvation and reconciliation that Jesus gave me when He died. I did nothing to deserve the gift Jesus gave me, yet He did it anyway.

Similarly, each one of us in the family of God has been given the same gift of reconciliation. None of us is better than the next guy, because each of us has received the same gift. With this in mind, one might ask why we end up fighting among ourselves, holding grudges, and breaking out of the oneness that God desires so much for His church. All of these conflicts are so menial when we consider the things of Heaven!

How should the concept of being reconciled to God change our lives? I submit that it should change everything for us. If we are on God’s “side” now— the ultimate “good guy”—we should be sharing the good news of that gift with everyone. No longer are we doomed to enemy status, but we—each one of us separately, as well as a whole—are part of God’s family now.

**React**

`Who is someone whom I consider an enemy? Is there anyone who views me as an enemy? How can I change my interactions with them to better reflect my reconciliation with my Father?`

---

_Andrés Sauceda, Dayton, Ohio, USA_