---
title:  No Time Like the Present!
date:  07/12/2018
---

**Exploration**: Luke 23:31–34; 2 Cor. 5:20, 21; Eph. 4:26

**Conclude**

A key theme laced through our lessons this week is reconciliation. We have been reminded of the importance of being reconciled to each other because it impacts our oneness in Christ. We have also been reminded of our place in God’s family as a result of His love and compassion. After all, He gave the greatest gift—His Son—for us so that we could be reconciled to Him. However, what if you are lacking resolution in an area (or even more than one area) of your life? There is no time like the present to address the issues and move forward toward unity in Christ!

**Consider**

- Writing a letter or email to someone with whom you’re at odds. Be sure to honestly share your perspective without coming across as “attacking.” Try to set up a time to meet in person so that you can work together toward resolution.
- Painting a picture that uses color to depict the feeling of division between yourself and someone else. Share this with your Sabbath School class or Bible study group.
- Reflecting on your interactions with someone else to help understand an unreconciled situation. Do your best to see things not only from your perspective but from theirs as well.
- Collaborating on a project with someone with whom you’re at odds. Working toward a common goal can help you work toward reconciliation in your own situation.
- Comparing and contrasting your views with another person’s views. Make a journal entry to document these ideas.
- Looking for a Bible verse that gives you direction for your unresolved situation. Write the verse on a three-by-five-inch card and set it where you will see it frequently. If possible, memorize it.
- Offering up yourself to the Lord as a tool to be used in someone else’s unreconciled situation. It can be difficult to get involved in someone else’s issue without prying, but sometimes a third party is helpful in mediating and working toward resolution.


**Connect**

1 Corinthians 1:10–17; Ephesians 4:11–16.

Bonita Joyner Shields, Touch Points: Forgiveness Takes One; Reconciliation Takes Two (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald®, 2006).

Lourdes Morales-Gudmundsson, I Forgive You, but . . . (Nampa, ID: Pacific Press®, 2006).

---

_Alex Sauceda, Dayton, Ohio, USA_