---
title: Making Sense of the Whole
date: 30/11/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 14–17**

**Making Sense of the Whole**

Alone with His disciples, Jesus spoke directly to their current and future needs. In John 14–17, He aimed to prepare them for the tests they would face. He was about to depart, and they needed consolation and encouragement. They would face enemies, internal and external, and Jesus longed to equip them for these struggles. Above all, the disciples needed to know how to love one another and their enemies. Interlaced with these refrains comes the assurance of Jesus’ own prayers on their behalf. Jesus wove these themes together in the tapestry of His farewell discourse.

From the opening words, Jesus conveyed a deep sense of comfort. When He told the disciples, “Let not your heart be troubled” (John 14:1), He was not telling them they should never worry. He was addressing the disciples’ deep consternation regarding His departure and His warning of betrayal. In essence, Jesus was telling His disciples, “Stop being troubled in heart.” Jesus Himself was troubled at times (11:33; 12:27; 13:21). Belief in God and Jesus is the remedy for this anxiousness. Jesus exercised belief in His Father’s will and was able to endure His trials. The disciples would face a similar test, seeing Him arrested, tried, condemned, and crucified. The question would force itself into their minds: “Is this truly the Messiah?”

Jesus pointed them to what their source of comfort would be when He was departed from them: the Helper, the Spirit of Truth (14:16–18, 25–28; 15:26; 16:12–15). Notice that the Helper is first introduced immediately after Jesus’ repeated command to love one another. The promise of the Helper runs throughout this discourse. He would bring wisdom, understanding, peace, and love to the disciples. The Helper will convict us of sin and guide us into all truth (16:8, 13). He came after Christ departed (v. 7). The work of the Spirit goes forth a result of Christ’s death. The Greek word from which we get helper, paraklētos, has several layers of meaning. Read John 14:16 in different translations and note the nuances of interpretation you find.

#### inScribe

Take some time to enter a relaxed and prayerful state of mind. Slowly read John 17:22–26 three times. Before the second reading, ask God to speak to you about the passage. Write down your insights. Before the third reading, ask God to give you what you need to live the passage. Create an illustration or a mind map of what you discovered.

` `