---
title: The Work of the Spirit
date: 01/12/2024
---

#### inGest

The word paraklētos can be translated in a variety of ways. To help decipher how to understand the word, we can explore the various contexts in which it is used. The King James Version translates the word as “Comforter.” Other Bible versions use the word Advocate, Helper, Counselor, or Intercessor. The word paraklētos is applied to Jesus in 1 John 2:1, where Christ is presented as the Advocate for sinners.

The attributes of the Spirit are also ascribed to Jesus. Christ was said to dwell in the disciples (John 14:20; 15:4, 5). He was their teacher (13:13), bore witness to the Father (14:9–11), and described Himself as the truth (14:6). The Spirit has the same attributes (14:17, 26; 15:26; 16:13, 14). It’s also significant that the Spirit both identified Jesus as the Messiah and remained with Him (1:32, 33). Jesus sent the Spirit to be with His disciples (15:26; 16:7). As the world rejected Christ, so it will reject the work of the Spirit (3:32–34; 6:66; 8:59; 14:17). Jesus will never abandon His disciples (14:18). Since He cannot be with us physically, He sent the Spirit in His stead.

Given the multifaceted role of the Spirit, exploring the translations of paraklētos provides some new insights. Despite its long history, the term “Comforter” overlooks some connotations of the original Greek word. It’s important to remember the legal background of the word as well—that’s how we get “Advocate.” Something like “Friend” encompasses much of its meaning. We can view the Spirit as our Friend and Advocate in heaven. He assists us in bearing witness, works to convict the world of sin, and teaches us what we need to know, all while advocating for us in heaven’s court system.

The Spirit’s work has direct implications for our daily lives. In creating a summary of His work in the Gospel, several important points arise. The Spirit guides us in our worship of God “in spirit and truth” (4:23, 24). He does not create new information, but He gives us new insights and guides us in understanding and applying Jesus’ teachings (14:26; 15:15). This work makes our witness to the world truthful. The Spirit working in and through Jesus’ disciples refreshes those around them (7:37–39).

In its last few chapters, the Gospel continues to emphasize our witness along with the gift of the Spirit. On the evening of the resurrection, the disciples hid in the upper room, afraid of what the Romans and Jewish religious leaders might do to them. Despite having heard of the resurrection, they were gripped with fear (20:3–10, 18, 19). Suddenly, Jesus appeared and repeated His commission to them. To prepare them for the intense work ahead, Jesus breathed on them the Holy Spirit (vv. 21–23). This was a foretaste of the great outpouring of the Spirit that occurred on Pentecost shortly after. The purpose was the same: to prepare the disciples to witness for Christ.

#### Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 14–17. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How much time do we as individuals, small groups, and the larger church body spend asking God to fulfill the promise of the Holy Spirit?`

`How frequently do you sense your need for the Spirit to work Spirit in your life?`