---
title: Abiding in Christ
date: 02/12/2024
---

#### inTerpret

After reminding the disciples that “the ruler of this world is coming,” Jesus invited them to join Him on a walk outside the city (John 14:30, 31). We know there was likely a full moon because of when Passover was traditionally held. As they passed a vineyard, Jesus used a new metaphor to describe His relationship to His followers. By using the vine as a representation of Himself, He illustrated how completely His followers (the branches) depend on staying constantly connected to Him. Without the vine’s life, the branches become fruitless and lifeless. The Father’s love is depicted in the tender care of the vinedresser who tended His vineyard by carefully pruning each branch and removing dead ones.

This imagery was familiar to the disciples. The Old Testament symbolized God’s people, the nation of Israel, as a vineyard (Isa. 5:1–7; Ezek. 19:10–14). Jesus used the metaphor in a slightly new way: to not only show the relationship between God and His people but also reveal Jesus’ special role. The Father prunes the vine, removing the unfruitful branches and nurturing the fruitful ones. Yet Jesus is also involved in this process. His Word also serves to prune (clean) the branches.

Through the parable of the vine, Jesus invited the disciples (including us) to abide in Him. Closeness with Christ has been a theme since the opening of this Gospel (John 1:38, 39). Connecting, abiding, and remaining in Christ is key to spiritual success (15:4–7, 9, 10, 16). This imagery highlights our constant dependence on the work of God and Christ in us. The branches are not called to prune themselves, but to submit to this process. This is accomplished by abiding in Christ, depending on Him, and living in a loving relationship with Him. The result of such resting in Christ is a life full of fruit (15:8).

Beginning in verse 18, the chapter changes tone. Moving from the disciples’ interactions with one another, Jesus spoke to the disciples about their dealings with the world. These two relationships are in marked contrast. One is governed by love, the other by hatred. Regardless of the time period, the animosity that Jesus’ followers experience directly results from their abiding in Him (15:19; 17:14; 5:41–44). Persecution and the threat of death are the ultimate manifestation of this hatred (15:20; 16:2).

Looking back over the Gospel, we see how often people responded negatively to Christ (chaps. 5–11), culminating in the plan to put Him to death. This reaction arose in resistance to the manifestation of His love. As in John 3:17–20, we see that Jesus did not come to judge, but judgment occurred as people turned from light into darkness, choosing to continue following evil. Those who follow in the path of Jesus know that we cannot avoid tribulation in this world. And yet Jesus has already conquered on our behalf (16:33).

#### Journal:

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks seem to point to overall?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What does it look like to abide continually in Christ? What tempts you to remove yourself from this position of abiding?`