---
title: The Priestly Prayer
date: 04/12/2024
---

#### inVite

Of all of Jesus’ recorded prayers in the Gospels, the one in chapter 17 is the longest. In the last moments before His arrest, Jesus directly addressed the Father in the disciples’ presence. He placed His church in the Father’s hands (John 17:9–11; see also 10:27–29). Just as He was sent into the world as God’s gift, Jesus here sent His disciples (17:18). The tender love that unites the Father and Son is the same level of love that Jesus prayed would unite all His disciples, both the ones in the Garden with Him and all those who would follow later (v. 20).

Jesus knew His final hour had come. He looked forward to being glorified by continuing to manifest God’s character, as He had done throughout His life (vv. 1–5). Jesus had previously revealed His authority from the Father (5:21–27). This authority is shown here through Jesus’ power to give His followers eternal life (17:1–3). The gift of eternal life can be received now, and it begins today. When we receive eternal life now, death is just a temporary sleep (11:11–14).

Jesus’ deep love and care for His disciples was expressed in His earnest prayer for their guidance and protection in this world (17:6–13). Jesus called His disciples out of the world, for they do not belong to it (vv. 14, 16). Through Christ’s victory, the world should no longer influence His followers (vv. 21, 23). He prayed for His disciples because He knew the world would hate them (17:14; see also 15:18). He asked that all His disciples be kept from the evil one, no matter when they live (17:15).

Jesus prayed not only for their safekeeping but also for their total sanctification. Here, sanctification means being set apart for the work of being a witness. As the Father sent the Son, so the Son sent the disciples (17:18; see also 14:12; 15:16; 20:21). Having been set apart, Christ’s followers are to reflect God’s holiness in their lives. This sanctification involves a transformation of character that can only be accomplished by embracing and following Truth. The result of sanctification is unity among the disciples.

As the prayer drew to a close, Jesus specifically focused on those of future generations who would (and will) believe (17:20–26). His followers’ witness will be successful, and others will receive their testimony. This is part of God’s ongoing plan. When people believe the good news about God’s gift, they share it with others. Thus, truth spreads exponentially.

Jesus’ intercession reached a pinnacle when describing the harmonious relationship that should exist among believers. Jesus appealed to believers to have the same unity between one another that exists between the Father and Son. Beyond that, the Father has the same love toward us as He has toward the Son. Jesus came so we might know, experience, and demonstrate God’s infinite love for us.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 14–17 again and look for where Jesus is.

`In what ways does God protect us from the world? In what ways does He not protect us from the world?`

`How can we learn and develop the same love for one another that God has for us? Have you ever witnessed that kind of love?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`