---
title: inQuire
date: 06/12/2024
---

#### inQuire

Share insights from your study this week. Include any questions you might have for the group, as well as discoveries, observations, and new understandings. Below are some questions for discussion with the rest of your study group.

`Identify several specific areas in your life where you can apply Jesus’ instruction to stop worrying. How can you begin overcoming your worries and surrendering them to Christ?`

`What can you do to promote an awareness of our need to experience a greater degree of the Holy Spirit’s work? What can you and your church do to realize that experience?`

`Meditate on Jesus’ words describing the vine and the branches (John 15:1–12). Think about how it applies to you specifically. Share your insights.`

`What does it mean to abide in Christ in everyday life? What does it mean for Christ to abide in you?`

`Identify and share a few areas in which you’ve been convicted that the world’s influence is too strong in your life. Brainstorm and discuss ways you might begin minimize that influence.`

`In His prayer, Jesus set the disciples apart for a holy life, dedicated to God. What would that life look like for you?`

`Reflect on Jesus’ discussion regarding the world and the disciples. How can you cultivate a loving but separate attitude toward the world?`

`How does the content of John 14–17 prepare the reader for the events surrounding Jesus’ arrest and crucifixion?`

`What specific work do you think God has set you apart to accomplish?`

`How can we have peace and joy even amid trials?`