---
title:  To Love More Than Self
date:  24/10/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Luke 10:25–37

**To Love More Than Self**

The foundation of creation was love. Unlike the creator in other creation narratives from ancient texts, the God of the Bible did not create the world so He could be served; He created it because He is love. His love can be seen in every aspect of the creation story, but it is perhaps most powerfully expressed in the manner in which He created Adam and Eve and the purpose He instilled in them to achieve. Love is also the foundation of redemption. “God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have everlasting life” (John 3:16). The story of redemption teaches us that God loved us more than He loved Himself.

Since love is the basis of creation and redemption, it is also the basis of real education. To love God with heart, mind, soul, and strength means that in the whole being, every aspect of development is to reach its highest attainment in unselfish love for God.

“Like the first is the second commandment, ‘Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.’ Mark 12:31. The law of love calls for the devotion of body, mind, and soul to the service of God and humanity. This service, while making us a blessing to others, brings the greatest blessing to ourselves. Unselfishness underlies all true development. Through unselfish service we receive the highest culture of every faculty. More and more fully do we become partakers of the divine nature. We are fitted for heaven, for we receive heaven into our hearts” (Education, 16).

#### inScribe

Write out Luke 10:25–37 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``