---
title:  The Permanence of Love
date:  28/10/2020
---

#### inVite

**The Nature of Giving**

It is God’s nature to give because it is His nature to love. In the beginning, God revealed Himself in every aspect of creation from the smallest atom to the largest galaxy. Everything testified of His great power, wisdom, and love. But it was Christ who unrolled the heavens and established the foundations of the earth: “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through Him, and without Him nothing was made that was made” (John 1:1–3). It was Christ Himself who wrote the name of the Father on and in everything He created. He did this because it is in the nature of love to give.

After sin marred the image of God in creation, the culture of heaven did not change. Even now, nature still retains its selfless quality. The precipitation that falls upon mountains is not withheld but passes through the valleys as vibrant roads of water that bless plants and animals. Flowers give forth fragrance; trees deliver food and shelter; birds sing songs for listeners to enjoy. The only thing that lives for itself is the selfish heart in humanity.

Likewise unfallen angels are constantly dispatched through divine order to care for fallen humanity. With unselfish patience and great care, they bring humanity into communion with God that surpasses what they themselves can experience. However, when it comes to expressing His love for us, God goes beyond nature and angels. He shows us Immanuel, God with us.

**The Nature of Change**

To fulfill the plan of salvation, Jesus could have momentarily taken upon Himself the nature of humanity, died on a cross, and returned to who He was prior to His incarnation. However, “by His life and death, Christ has achieved even more than recovery from the ruin wrought through sin. It was Satan’s purpose to bring about an eternal separation between God and man; but in Christ we become more closely united to God than if we had never fallen. In taking our nature, the Saviour has bound Himself to humanity by a tie that is never to be broken. Through the eternal ages He is linked with us” (The Desire of Ages, 25). When God gave His Son, He did not merely lend Him to us. When speaking of Himself, God did say: “I am the Lord, I do not change” (Mal. 3:6). While His character never changes, His nature indeed changed forever for humanity’s salvation and its eternal connection to divinity.

**The Nature of Love**

Speaking of God’s love for us, John invites us to behold it (1 John 3:1) rather than merely understanding it. It is impossible to comprehend how an unselfish God can ever be willing to adopt a people who are so unlike Him. “But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us” (Rom. 5:8). “In Christ the family of earth and the family of heaven are bound together. Christ glorified is our brother. Heaven is enshrined in humanity, and humanity is enfolded in the bosom of Infinite Love” (The Desire of Ages, 25, 26).

The insanity of the love of God is that He would be willing to give us His Son, change His nature, and then adopt humanity in the Son, so that a third of the Godhead would now have divine-human representation. This is love.

``