---
title:  Wait for the Lord
date:   23/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Psalm 27:14; Psalm 131; Psalm 126; Psalm 92; Psalm 5:3; 2 Peter 1:19; Revelation 22:16.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Wait for the Lord’s help. Be strong and brave, and wait for the Lord’s help” (Psalm 27:14, ERV).

We are now in the last week of this quarter’s study on the Book of Psalms. We have learned many wonderful Bible truths about our King and Judge. He is the One who made us. He saves us from sin. He forgives us. Our hearts are filled with hope as we wait for Jesus to come back. The final message we will study from the Book of Psalms is the topic of waiting for the Lord.

What does it mean to wait for the Lord? Does waiting mean that we sit around all day doing nothing? Of course not! Waiting for the Lord is something we do. Waiting shows our faith and our trust in God. When we wait for the Lord, our hearts will fill with peace and hope, even if times are hard. That’s why the poet says, “The night may be filled with tears, but in the morning we can sing for joy!” (Psalm 30:5, ERV). And, “Show me your faithful [something we can depend on] love this morning. I trust in you. Show me what I should do. I put my life in your hands!” (Psalm 143:8, ERV). This hope and trust will cause us to work harder to help God save the people around us (Psalm 126:6; Matthew 9:36-38). We will never feel ashamed when we wait for the Lord. That’s because the Lord keeps all His promises (Psalm 37:7-11, 18, 34; Psalm 71:1; Psalm 119:137, 138). So, we can be sure that God will richly reward us for waiting for Him.