---
title:  Waiting For God
date:   24/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 27:14; Psalm 37:7, 9, 34; Psalm 39:7; Psalm 40:1; Psalm 69:6; Galatians 5:5; and Romans 8:18-25. What do these verses ask God’s people to do?`

No one really enjoys waiting. Waiting can cause us stress. At times, we all must wait for things. Maybe we must wait in line at the store. Or we must wait to hear news from our doctor about our health. We don’t always like doing that, do we?

What about waiting for God? The Book of Psalms talks about waiting for God. The rest of the Bible talks about it, too. What is the secret to waiting for God? We must not give up hope. Don’t become afraid that God will not keep His promises or be there for us. When we wait for God, we must know that we can trust in Him with our problems. We can be sure He will work things out for our best.

Waiting for the Lord is more than wanting Him to do something for us. Waiting for the Lord is about wanting God Himself. We want the Giver and not only the gifts He promises. Waiting for God is compared to someone in a desert who is very thirsty (Psalm 63:1). The poet waits for God to give him many blessings. But more than wanting the blessings, the poet wants to feel close to God in his heart. A relationship with God is more important to the poet than any other thing he needs or wants in life.

Paul tells us in the Book of Romans that everything in nature waits for God to make the earth new. All nature waits for God to meet with His people at the end of time. Paul writes: “Everything that God made is waiting with excitement for the time when he will show the world [everyone on earth] who his children are. The whole world wants very much for that to happen” (Romans 8:19, ERV).

This promise is wonderful!

While we wait for Jesus to come, the Lord continues to be with His people now. He sends His Holy Spirit to live in their hearts.

Jesus asks us to be His witnesses (Acts 1:4-8). He wants us to tell everyone the good news that He saves them from sin and makes their lives new. He will make the earth new, too. That time is what we, as a church, are waiting for. As Seventh-day Adventist Christians, our name includes the idea of the hope we wait for. We wait, but we know God will reward us for our waiting.