---
title:  A Baby With Its Mother
date:   25/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 131. What does this poem teach us about our relationship with God?`

God’s people live on an earth filled with sin and suffering. The poet who wrote Psalm 131 understands this ugly truth. That is why he is grateful to remember that he is God’s child. The poet knows that he must depend on God for everything in life. This thought empties the poet’s heart of all pride. The poet confesses that pride is worth nothing. Pride is a lie. Pride causes people to think only about self. A heart filled with pride is blind. A person with pride in his heart can’t see that he needs God.

God’s children see that they need God (Psalm 123:1, 2). God’s children have no pride in their hearts because they understand that God is all-powerful and wonderful. The poet says, “I don’t see myself as better than others [people]. I am not thinking about doing great [important] things” (Psalm 131:1, ERV). Only God can do “great things.” His works are a mystery. We cannot fully understand them.

In Psalm 131:2, the poet tells us some more about His relationship with God. He compares how he feels with God to a child with its mother, after the baby finishes eating. He says, “Right now I am calm [filled with peace] and quiet, like [the same as] a child after nursing [feeding at its mother’s breast], content [happy] in its mother’s arms” (Psalm 131:2, ERV). This word picture is powerful. God’s love fills the poet with peace, the same as the child in its mother’s arms.

The poet feels the same trust in God that the child feels with its mother. This trust comes from faith. When our faith is put to the test, we grow in spiritual strength. We learn during suffering and hard times that we can trust in God. The Lord always keeps His promises.

The poet doesn’t end his poem with thoughts about himself. He ends his poem with thoughts about God’s people. In the same way, God wants us to think about His church. He wants us to use our experience with Him to help His church grow strong. What does “our experience” mean? God wants us to share with other church members the things we learned about Him. Our stories about the things Jesus does for us can help encourage other church members. Our stories can help church members build a stronger faith.