---
title:  Bringing In The Crops
date:   26/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What gives strength and hope to God’s people? Read Psalm 126 for the answer. What important rule do we learn about in this poem? How can we follow this important rule in our own lives?`

When we think about the Lord’s miracles in the past, we feel hope for the future. When God saved His people in the past, they thought they must be dreaming. The experience was so wonderful! Of course, the experience was the same as a bad dream for Israel’s enemies (Isaiah 29:7, 8). In Psalm 126, do you see that the people who praise the Lord for saving Israel in the past (Psalm 126:1) are the ones who are prisoners in a strange land?

Remembering the past gives God’s people hope in hard times. In Psalm 126:4, the people pray, “So, Lord, bring back the good times, like [the same as] a desert stream filled again with flowing water” (Psalm 126:4, ERV). Next, the poet uses a word picture about planting seeds in a sad time and collecting crops in a happy time (Psalm 126:5, 6). This word picture shows us a powerful promise that God will lead His people from hard times to a happy future.

Bible writers often used the harvest as a word picture to teach the Israelites important Bible truth. The people worked hard planting seeds and plowing their fields, orchards, and grape gardens. They took good care of their crops, their fruit trees, and vines. At the end of the growing time, the people enjoyed a harvest of plenty. In the same way, God’s people work hard for His kingdom now. Their sufferings and hard times will be rewarded soon. God will give them the crown of life at the end of time. Then their hearts will be filled with joy.

The Second Coming is the same as a big harvest. After that time, Jesus will start His everlasting kingdom on the earth (Amos 9:13-15; Matthew 9:37). But we must wait until then. Just as we must wait for crops to grow, we must wait to see all the wonderful things that will happen because of the work we do now for God.

`Think about times when you saw the Lord working in your life or in the lives of other people. How can these experiences give you hope during hard times?`