---
title:  God’s Sabbath Rest
date:   27/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 92. Psalm 92 is a song for the Sabbath day. In Bible times, God’s people sang this song on the Sabbath. What two things about the Sabbath does this song talk about?`

Psalm 92 praises God for everything He made (Psalm 92:4, 5). The poem also praises God because He wins the fight against His enemies and is a fair Judge (Psalm 92:7-15). So, we see that Psalm 92 praises God for His past works and praises Him for the peace He will bring in the future.

The people can enjoy Sabbath rest because the Lord is the Most High God (Psalm 92:1). At the same time, the Lord comes down to save those who cry to Him for help. Everything the Lord made should fill our hearts with love for Him. We should worship Him because He made us and saves us.

In Psalm 92:10, the poet says, “You have poured fine [expensive] oils on me” (ICB). The expensive oils are a word picture that shows the poet’s love for God. The poet promises to serve God with His whole heart. In Old Testament times, God’s prophets or messengers poured a special oil on the heads of kings and priests or spiritual leaders. The oil showed that these people chose to serve the Lord (Exodus 40:15; 1 Samuel 10:1). The poet uses this word picture to show us that he wishes to give himself as a living offering or gift to the Lord. The oil shows us that the poet wants to give his whole life to God (Romans 12:1).

We shouldn’t be surprised to find thoughts about giving one’s whole life to God in a poem that is about the Sabbath. The Sabbath is the sign that God makes His people holy (Exodus 31:13). The Sabbath is a sign of God’s everlasting promise with His people (Ezekiel 20:20). The Sabbath rest is important to God’s people because it helps them to trust in the Lord and wait for Him to keep His promise (Hebrews 4:1-10).

`Read Psalm 92 again. What wonderful hope does this poem offer us?`