---
title:  Joy Comes In The Morning
date:   28/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Psalm 5:3; Psalm 30:5; Psalm 49:14; Psalm 59:16; Psalm 92:2; Psalm 119:147; 2 Peter 1:19; and Revelation 22:16. In these poems, what time of day is used as a word picture for God’s plan to save us?`

In the Book of Psalms, morning is the time when the people wait for God to come and save them. Morning is also a word picture for God’s favor and blessing. Morning ends the long night. Night is a word picture for trouble and sadness (Psalm 130:5, 6). In Psalm 143, when God saves His people, He will reverse the way things are. He will end sin and death (Psalm 143:3). He will change the dark into the light of a new morning (Psalm 143:7-10).

`Read Mark 16:1-8. What do these verses from Mark say happened in the morning? Why is that information important to us?`

Jesus woke up from the dead on the morning of the third day after He was nailed to the cross. When Jesus woke up from the dead, He made a way for the human family to be saved in His name. When Jesus woke up from the dead, His followers fully understood the promise in Psalm 30:5: “The night may be filled with tears, but in the morning we can sing for joy!” (Psalm 30:5, ERV). God’s favor and love are the only things that change our tears into joy (Psalm 30:5, 7).

Jesus is named the bright Morning Star (Revelation 22:16). The morning star announces the start of a new day. We wait for Jesus, the Morning Star, to start His kingdom. At that time, there will be no more night, evil, or death (Revelation 21:1-8, 25). More than anything, we wait for this time with all our hearts. For sure, the wait is worth it!

“Jesus stepped out of Joseph’s grave. He announced, ‘I am the One who wakes up from the dead. I am Life.’ Only God can say these words. Everyone who lives does so because of God. We depend on God for life. From the mightiest angel to the little child, all of us must get our life from God. Jesus is One with God. Only He can say, ‘I can give up My life. I have the strength to come back to life again.’ As God, Jesus had the strength to wake up from the grave.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, page 785, adapted.