---
title:  Additional thought
date:   29/03/2024
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Growing Up Into Christ,” pages 67-75, in _Steps to Christ_.

The Book of Psalms asks us to wait for the Lord (Psalm 37:7). When waiting is hard to do, we should remember Jesus’ followers on the day Jesus went back to heaven (Acts 1:4-11). Jesus was lifted into the sky in front of their eyes. They were left behind on earth to wait for Him to come back at some day in the future. Jesus told His followers to wait for the Father’s promise to send them the Holy Spirit. The followers went back to Jerusalem and did everything Jesus told them to do. They waited for the gift of the Holy Spirit. Then they preached the good news in a powerful way to the people in Jerusalem.

Our Lord’s commandment to wait on Him is possible only if we allow Him to do His work in us. The Lord sends His Spirit to live in our hearts. The Spirit helps us have a personal relationship with God. A close, personal relationship with God will give us the strength to wait for Jesus. “When Jesus lives in our hearts, He will give us His strength. ‘He helps you want to do what pleases him, and he gives you the power to do it.’ Philippians 2:13 [ERV]. Then we shall work the way that Jesus worked. We shall have His same spirit. We shall love Him and live in Him. Then ‘we will grow to be like [the same as] Christ [Jesus] in every way. He is the head [the spiritual leader of the church].’ Ephesians 4:15 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, _Steps to Christ_, page 75, adapted.

As we continue to wait for the Lord, we will find peace in the Book of Psalms. We meet God every day in its prayers and songs.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why is waiting an important part of our spiritual life? Talk about some men and women in the Bible who waited. How did waiting make their faith strong? Hint: read Romans 4:19-22 and Hebrews 11.`

`What things are we waiting for? What has God promised us? What hope do we find in Psalm 37:34-40 that God will give us these things?`

`Read Ecclesiastes 9:5. What does this verse tell us about the dead? How much longer must those people sleeping in Jesus wait in the grave? Why is their wait almost done? What hope do we get from this answer?`