---
title:  Into Eternity
date:  20/06/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Psalm 80, 1 Thess. 4:17, Rev. 21:9–27, Isa. 25:8, Rev. 7:17, Rev. 21:4, John 6:44.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Beloved, now we are children of God; and it has not yet been revealed what we shall be, but we know that when He is revealed, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is” (1 John 3:2, NKJV).

What does the future hold for you? What lies ahead? It might seem daunting, exciting, scary, and wonderful all at once. Know that Jesus is faithful and that His words are true (Rev. 3:14). There will yet be turbulent times ahead (Matt. 24:21, 22), but He has promised that He will never leave nor forsake you (Heb. 13:5). He will do exactly what He says He will do—He always has and always will (Heb. 10:23). And “he who endures to the end shall be saved” (Matt. 24:13, NKJV).

Regardless of the number of days left for us on earth, we should fix our eyes on Jesus, looking steadfastly to Him. This is not always easy in a world that clamors for our attention, but may we, like David, say, “My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for He shall pluck my feet out of the net” (Ps. 25:15, NKJV).

This week, let’s learn about the reward of heaven (Matt. 5:12, Rev. 22:12); what heaven will be like; and ultimately, how incredible it will be to finally be with the One who created us, loved us unto death, has redeemed us from our sin, and is coming back soon. We need to just hold on in faith until then.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, June 27._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Our work here is soon to close, and every man will receive his reward according to his own labor. I was shown the saints’ reward, the immortal inheritance, and saw that those who had endured the most for the truth’s sake will not think they have had a hard time, but will count heaven cheap enough.\
Every day bears its burden of record of unfulfilled duties, of neglect, of selfishness, of deception, of fraud, of overreaching. What an amount of evil works is accumulating for the final judgment! When Christ shall come, “His reward is with him, and his work before him,” to render to every man according as his works have been. What a revelation will then be made! What confusion of face to some as the acts of their lives are revealed upon the pages of history.\
Every good and every wrong act, and its influence upon ­others, is traced out by the Searcher of hearts, to whom every secret is revealed. And the reward will be according to the motives which prompted the action.\
The coming of Christ is near and hasteth greatly. The time in which to labor is short, and men and women are perishing. . . .\
We need the converting power of God to take hold of us, that we may understand the needs of a perishing world. The burden of my message to you is: Get ready, get ready to meet the Lord. Trim your lamps, and let the light of truth shine forth into the byways and the hedges. There is a world to be warned of the near approach of the end of all things. . . .\
Let us seek a new conversion. We need the presence of the Holy Spirit of God with us, that our hearts may be softened and that we may not bring a harsh spirit into the work. I pray that the Holy Spirit may take full possession of our hearts. Let us act like children of God who are looking to Him for counsel, ready to work out His plans wherever presented. God will be glorified by such a people, and those who witness our zeal will say: Amen and amen.—Maranatha, p. 312.

God positively enjoins upon all His followers a duty to bless ­others with their influence and means. . . . In doing for others, a sweet satisfaction will be experienced, an inward peace which will be a sufficient reward. When actuated by a high and noble desire to do others good, they will find true happiness in a faithful discharge of life’s manifold duties. This will bring more than an earthly reward; for every faithful, unselfish performance of duty is noticed by the angels and shines in the life record. In heaven none will think of self, nor seek their own pleasure; but all, from pure, genuine love, will seek the happiness of the heavenly beings around them. If we wish to enjoy heavenly society in the earth made new, we must be governed by heavenly principles here.—In Heavenly Places, p. 233.