---
title:  Finally, Face-to-Face
date:  22/06/2026
---

We were made to be close to God (Gen. 2:7). Ever since He created humanity, God has given everything to restore our broken relationship with Him (John 3:16). He has placed eternity in our hearts, yet human beings cannot fathom what God has done from the beginning to the end (Eccles. 3:11). We’re part of the great controversy raging around us—even in us—yet, too often, we don’t pause long enough to consider the great cost of what has been given in order for us to be restored to the relationship God intends for us to have with Him. Too often, we find ourselves wrapped up in our earthly battles and trials, forgetting that “our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body that it may be conformed to His glorious body” (Phil. 3:20, 21, NKJV).

As the world plummets closer to the end, we know that a small black cloud will one day appear in the eastern sky. As it comes closer and closer, we’ll see that on that cloud sits “One like the Son of Man, having on His head a golden crown, and in His hand a sharp sickle” (Rev. 14:14, NKJV). Jesus will be accompanied by thousands upon thousands of angels (Matt. 25:31), and every eye will see Him (Rev. 1:7). As He descends, we’ll hear His shout, a trumpet call of God, and the tombs of those who fell asleep in Christ will open as they rise first (1 Thess. 4:16). They will know the voice of the One who calls them (John 5:28).

`What will happen next? Read 1 Thessalonians 4:17. Ultimately, what Paul writes about in Philippians 2:10, 11 will echo throughout the universe.`

What an utterly incredible, magnificent thought! One day we will see Jesus—really, truly see Him. We will hear His voice, and we will confess that He is Lord. The One whom we’ve read about, prayed to, spoken of with others; the One whom our hearts have longed for . . . we will actually see Him face-to-face. We can be certain and sure of this, for God is faithful, and His promises are true (Rev. 22:6).

In that moment, when the trumpets sound and every human eye sees Jesus, we’ll know that it’s been worth the wait. Every persevering prayer, every moment we’ve prioritized time with Him, every time we’ve spoken boldly for Him, every trial—will be culminated in seeing His face (Rev. 22:4).

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Into the City of God there will enter nothing that defiles. All who are to be dwellers there will here have become pure in heart. In one who is learning of Jesus, there will be manifest a growing distaste for careless manners, unseemly language, and coarse thought. When Christ abides in the heart, there will be purity and refinement of thought and manner.\
But the words of Jesus, “Blessed are the pure in heart,” have a deeper meaning—not merely pure in the sense in which the world understands purity, free from that which is sensual, pure from lust, but true in the hidden purposes and motives of the soul, free from pride and self-seeking, humble, unselfish, childlike. . . .\
To hearts that have become purified through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, all is changed. These can know God. Moses was hid in the cleft of the rock when the glory of the Lord was revealed to him; and it is when we are hid in Christ that we behold the love of God.\
“He that loveth pureness of heart, for the grace of his lips the king shall be his friend” (Proverbs 22:11). By faith we behold Him here and now. In our daily experience we discern His goodness and compassion in the manifestation of His providence. . . . The pure in heart see God in a new and endearing relation, as their Redeemer; and while they discern the purity and loveliness of His character, they long to reflect His image. They see Him as a Father longing to embrace a repenting son, and their hearts are filled with joy unspeakable and full of glory.\
The pure in heart discern the Creator in the works of His mighty hand, in the things of beauty that comprise the universe. In His Written Word they read in clearer lines the revelation of His mercy, His goodness, and His grace. . . .\
The beauty and preciousness of truth, which are undiscerned by the worldly-wise, are constantly unfolding to those who have a trusting, childlike desire to know and to do the will of God. We discern the truth by becoming, ourselves, partakers of the divine nature.\
The pure in heart live as in the visible presence of God during the time He apportions them in this world. And they will also see Him face to face in the future, immortal state, as did Adam when he walked and talked with God in Eden. “Now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face” (1 Corinthians 13:12).—Reflecting Christ, p. 378.