---
title:  Follow the Lamb
date:  24/06/2026
---

Have you ever been asked what you’re most looking forward to in eternity? A child might say, “Riding a tiger,” “Sliding down a giraffe’s neck,” or “Flying to different planets.” If you were to ask a teenager, they might say, “Not having to do any more schoolwork,” or “Exploring heaven with my friends without getting hurt.” And if you were to ask a group of adults, they might say, “Being in a place where there’s no more pain, suffering, or death,” or “Being reunited with loved ones.” All of these responses are good and true, and there is so much to look forward to in the new heaven and the new earth. Eternity burns within our hearts, and, intrinsically, we know there must be something more to life than the here and now.

`What other blessings might we look forward to in eternity? Read Isaiah 25:8, Revelation 7:17, and Revelation 21:4.`

Surely the greatest blessing of heaven will be to finally see Jesus and to thank Him, in person, for what He has done for us on this fallen earth. We will want to lavish our adoration and worship to Him for saving us, by His own suffering on the cross, from eternal death.

“ ‘Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom, and strength and honor and glory and blessing!’ ” (Rev. 5:12, NKJV).

John the Baptist introduced Jesus as “the Lamb of God” (John 1:36). Two of John’s disciples heard this statement and followed Jesus (John 1:37), and Revelation 14:4 tells us we should do the same. “These are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever He goes” (Rev. 14:4, NKJV). However, if we want to follow Him in heaven, we must first follow Him here on earth.

Jesus, the Lamb, is also our Shepherd, guiding our paths as no other can. This is so reassuring for us as we struggle through the hard times that we find ourselves in, but Jesus will never stop leading us, even in heaven. Revelation 7:17 says, “ ‘For the Lamb who is in the midst of the throne will shepherd them and lead them to living fountains of waters’ ” (NKJV). As His people, His sheep, we will follow Jesus in heaven, forever wanting to be in His presence. One defining characteristic of God’s people is that “His name shall be on their foreheads” (Rev. 22:4, NKJV). That is, we always will be thinking of Him.

`Listen to the Adventist gospel song “Follow the Lamb” at https://vimeo.com/1067821589 and make the words your personal prayer today.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Lord has a people on the earth, who follow the Lamb whithersoever He goeth. He has His thousands who have not bowed the knee to Baal. Such will stand with Him on Mount Zion. But they must stand on this earth, girded with the whole armor, ready to engage in the work of saving those who are ready to perish. . . .\
We need not wait till we are translated to follow Christ. God’s people may do this here below. We shall follow the Lamb of God in the courts above only if we follow Him here. . . . We are not to follow Christ fitfully or capriciously, only when it is for our advantage. We must choose to follow Him. In daily life we must follow His example, as a flock trustfully follows its shepherd. We are to follow Him by suffering for His sake, saying at every step, “Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him” (Job 13:15). His life practice must be our life practice. And as we thus seek to be like Him and to bring our wills into conformity to His will we shall reveal Him.\
We are not in a dreamland of inaction. We are soldiers of Christ, enlisted in the work of showing our loyalty to Him who has redeemed us. What we are in the heavenly home, when saved, eternally saved, will be the reflection of what we now are in character and holy service. Shall we not show our loyalty by keeping God’s commandments here, in this our place of probation?—In Heavenly Places, p. 298.

As the people of God afflict their souls before Him, pleading for purity of heart, the command is given, “Take away the filthy garments” from them, and the encouraging words are spoken, “Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will clothe thee with change of raiment” (Zechariah 3:4). The spotless robe of Christ’s righteousness is placed upon the tried, tempted, yet faithful children of God. The despised remnant are clothed in glorious apparel, nevermore to be defiled by the corruptions of the world. Their names are retained in the Lamb’s book of life, enrolled among the faithful of all ages. They have resisted the wiles of the deceiver; they have not been turned from their loyalty by the dragon’s roar. Now they are eternally secure from the tempter’s devices. Their sins are transferred to the originator of sin. And the remnant are not only pardoned and accepted, but honored. “A fair miter” is set upon their heads. They are to be as kings and priests unto God. While Satan was urging his accusations and seeking to destroy this company, holy angels, unseen, were passing to and fro, placing upon them the seal of the living God. These are they that stand upon Mount Zion with the Lamb, having the Father’s name written in their foreheads. They sing the new song before the throne, that song which no man can learn save the hundred and forty and four thousand, which were redeemed from the earth. “These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth. These were redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits unto God and to the Lamb. And in their mouth was found no guile: for they are without fault before the throne of God” (Revelation 14:4, 5).—Lift Him Up, p. 377.