---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/06/2026
---

“If we do not receive the religion of Christ by feeding upon the Word of God, we shall not be entitled to an entrance into the city of God. Having lived on earthly food, having educated our tastes to love worldly things, we would not be fitted for the heavenly courts; we could not appreciate the pure, heavenly current that circulates in heaven. The voices of the angels and the music of their harps would not satisfy us. The science of heaven would be as an enigma to our minds. We need to hunger and thirst for the righteousness of Christ; we need to be molded and fashioned by the transforming influence of His grace, that we may be fitted for the society of heavenly angels. . . .

“Then the nations will own no other law than the law of heaven. All will be a happy, united family, clothed with the garments of praise and thanksgiving. . . . Over the scene the morning stars will sing together, and the sons of God will shout for joy, while God and Christ will unite in proclaiming, ‘There shall be no more sin, neither shall there be any more death.’

“We want to get in the habit of talking of heaven, beautiful heaven. Talk of that life which will continue as long as God shall live, and then you will forget your little trials and difficulties. Let the mind be attracted to God.”—Ellen G. White, The Faith I Live By, p. 363.

`Discussion Question:`

`If available, listen to or read Ellen G. White’s vision of heaven found in Early Writings, pp. 14–20. What is most striking to you in this description?`

`What aspect of this quarter’s lessons do you most want to remember in order to keep your relationship with God strong until you see Jesus face-to-face?`

`Who in your life needs to hear about the hope of heaven? Commit to sharing with them as soon as possible. Remember: you can’t share with them a hope that you yourself don’t personally have.`

**Summary**: As we keep our eyes on the goal, may we be “confident of this very thing, that He who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ” (Phil. 1:6, NKJV). God initiated the relationship He has with you, and He will complete it. May we grow in love and in faith as we wait for that day, while always resting only in the righteousness of Christ, which is credited to us by faith.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Reflecting Christ, “We Rejoice in Tribulation,” December 2, p. 350.\
That I May Know Him, “Repeating Christ’s Invitation,” November 27, p. 337.\
