---
title:  Unlimited Possibilities
date:  01/08/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Cor. 12:12, Matt. 3:16–18, 1 Cor. 12:7, 1 Cor. 1:4–9, Matt. 25:14–30.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually as He wills” (1 Corinthians 12:11, NKJV).

God calls us to witness for Him (Acts 1:8, Isa. 43:10). Witnessing is not a special spiritual gift that only a select few possess. Witnessing is the divine calling of each Christian.

The Bible uses different expressions to describe our calling before God. We are to be “the light of the world,” “ambassadors for Christ,” and a “royal priesthood” (Matt. 5:14, 2 Cor. 5:20, 1 Pet. 2:9). This same God who calls us to witness and for service equips us for the task. He imparts spiritual gifts to each believer. God does not call the qualified. He qualifies those whom He has called. Just as He gives salvation freely to all who believe, He gives His gifts to them freely, as well.

As we consecrate ourselves to God and dedicate our lives to His service, our possibilities to serve are endless. “There is no limit to the usefulness of one who, putting aside self, makes room for the working of the Holy Spirit upon his heart, and lives a life wholly consecrated to God.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, p. 159.

In this week’s lesson, we will study our unlimited possibilities for service through the gift of the Holy Spirit.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, August 8._

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

"In every period of this earth’s history, God has had His men of opportunity, to whom He has said, “Ye are My witnesses.” In every age there have been devout men, who gathered up the rays of light as they flashed upon their pathway, and who spoke to the people the words of God. Enoch, Noah, Moses, Daniel, and the long roll of patriarchs and prophets,—these were ministers of righteousness. They were not infallible; they were weak, erring men; but the Lord wrought through them as they gave themselves to His service. {GW 13.1}

Since His ascension, Christ the great Head of the church, has carried forward His work in the world by chosen ambassadors, through whom He speaks to the children of men, and ministers to their needs. The position of those who have been called of God to labor in word and doctrine for the upbuilding of His church, is one of grave responsibility. In Christ’s stead they are to beseech men and women to be reconciled to God; and they can fulfil their mission only as they receive wisdom and power from above. {GW 13.2}"

"Thank God that it is our privilege to be called witnesses for God. Then if we are witnesses, we must speak for Christ, and lift Him up among our associates. When we see the ardor and religious zeal of any of our companions growing cool, we must help and encourage such a one, pray with and for him, that he may be a true witness for the Lord.... {SD 274.2}

You are to be the agent through whom God will speak to the soul. Precious things will be brought to your remembrance, and with a heart overflowing with the love of Jesus, you will speak words of vital interest and import. Your simplicity and sincerity will be the highest eloquence, and your words will be registered in the books of heaven as fit words, which are like apples of gold in pictures of silver. God will make them a healing flood of heavenly influence, awakening conviction and desire, and Jesus will add His intercession to your prayers, and claim for the sinner the gift of the Holy Spirit, and pour it upon his soul. And there will be joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.{SD 274.3}"

Those who love Jesus will bring all in their lives into harmony with His will.... Through the grace of God they are enabled to keep their purity of principle unsullied. Holy angels are close beside them, and Christ is revealed in their steadfast adherence to the truth. They are Christ’s minutemen, bearing, as true witnesses, a decided testimony in favor of the truth. They show that there is a spiritual power that can enable men and women not to swerve an inch from truth and justice for all the gifts that men can bestow. Such ones, wherever they may be, will be honored of heaven because they have conformed their lives to the will of God, caring not what sacrifices they are called upon to make.{AG 247.5}