---
title:  Stinking Thinking
date:  18/01/2025
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Philippians
4:6–13**

**Stinking Thinking**

Recently, I was counseling a young man who was addicted to drugs and vaping. He was haunted by the childhood belief that he would never accomplish anything in life. As a result, he was burying himself in drug abuse. During our sessions, the Holy Spirit helped him recognize that the message, “You will never amount to anything,” was a lie he had come to believe through his childhood experiences. The Spirit led this young man to accept the reality that “There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus” (Rom. 8:1). As he practiced telling himself this truth every day, he was able to daily overcome the lies of the enemy by speaking the truth of God’s Word. He was set free (see John 8:32)!

We’re all tempted to indulge in various types of cognitive distortions—a fancy term to describe unhelpful and dysfunctional ways of thinking. The lies that we tell ourselves are many. “I’m not good enough.” “No one cares about me.” “Nobody would miss me if I were gone.” “I’m a failure.” “I will never amount to anything.” The list goes on and on. Renewing our minds requires us to confront our “stinking thinking” and find ways to establish truthful, healthy thought patterns.

Jesus wants to set us free from irrational thoughts that lead to sadness, anxiety, worry, and depression. Believing lies about ourselves and others hurts our health: physically, mentally, emotionally, socially, and spiritually. Our mindset becomes our reality. How and what we think greatly determines the level of freedom or internal bondage that we feel. We can only experience freedom to the extent that we embrace the truth and reject the lies that keep us in captivity (John 8:31, 32). Jesus came into this world to dispel darkness and reveal the truth. Only through Jesus will we understand our real value. Our true identity is always who God sees us to be, not what we’ve negatively called ourselves or what others have called us. Despite everything we’ve heard from anyone, including ourselves, Jesus can liberate our minds and bring clarity to our thinking.

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

#### inScribe

Write out Philippians 4:6–13 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 8. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind map it.

` `