---
title:  Guard the Mind
date:  19/01/2025
---

#### inGest

Our thoughts take form through complex interactions between electrical and chemical processes in our brains. Thoughts are real, and they have a direct impact on how we feel and behave. Every time we have angry, unkind, sad, or cranky thoughts, our brains release chemicals that amplify our negative feelings. For example, when we get mad, our muscles become tense, our hearts beat faster, and our hands start to sweat. Some people even begin to feel a little dizzy. Being upset can trigger headaches or stomachaches. When negative feelings escalate, our bodies release cortisol and adrenaline. If this happens too often for too long, we can develop serious heart and stomach problems. Negative thoughts have damaging consequences.

When we think good, happy, hopeful, or kind thoughts, our brains release chemicals that make our bodies feel good. Our muscles relax, and our heartbeats and breathing slow down. Good thoughts produce the right balance of dopamine and serotonin, which helps cultivate good mind and body health.

Thoughts are very powerful! Every thought we have affects every cell in our bodies. No wonder Paul encouraged believers to “guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus” (Phil. 4:7)! Through Jesus, we receive power to guard our thoughts and feelings. We should never simply give ourselves over to be the victims of our own out-of-control thinking. To think that we cannot help our own thinking is another lie from the enemy that many people believe. Even people who have the most debased, disgusting thoughts in the world can receive cleansing through the power of Christ if they are willing to change their choices. Contrary to what many people say, the Bible teaches that we can choose the subject of our thoughts.

Spending time pondering the right things can change everything (v. 8). That’s why we must study Jesus and keep our focus on Him. By beholding, we become changed (2 Cor. 3:18). The longer we dwell on something, be it visually or mentally, the more we become like it. What we behold impacts our thinking and attitudes. Many of us struggle with intrusive thoughts that reflect the entertainment, politics, and problems found in whatever media we’ve been consuming. Even in church we can lose our focus on Jesus! Some will only go to Christ when they see those who believe in Him reflecting His character. Even if you’ve grown up in church, there’s someone, perhaps in leadership, who can turn you away from Jesus. Praise God, for He can always draw us back to Himself. To change the way we feel, we must shift our focus to Jesus so that we will reflect Him. By meditating on Christ, our minds are shaped to think His thoughts.

#### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from Philippians 4:6–13. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How can you do a better job of guarding your mind (Phil. 4:7)?`

`Are there things you feel convicted that you need to cut out of your life based on Philippians 4:8?`