---
title:  Whatever Things Are True
date:  20/01/2025
---

#### inTerpret

Whenever thoughts arise that make us feel sad, mad, nervous, or out of control, we should apply the first test from Philippians 4:8: “Is it true?” False thoughts must be confronted by the Word of God and removed from our minds. Even the biggest mountains of doubt, distrust, and despondency can be identified and overcome (Mark 11:22–24). Speak truth and claim Bible promises daily.

To have clear thinking, we must intentionally root out thoughts that keep us from experiencing peace. Exaggerated or irrational thought patterns, called cognitive distortions or fallacies, can convince us to believe harmful lies about ourselves and others. As you look at the following examples, keep in mind that distortions are not always 100 percent lies. Here are some examples:

All or Nothing Thinking: Seeing things as black or white, right or wrong, with nothing in between. Essentially, “If I’m not perfect, I’m a failure.” Examples include, “I didn’t finish writing that paper, so it was a complete waste of time.” “There’s no point in participating if I’m not 100% in shape.” “They didn’t show up; they’re completely unreliable!”

Overgeneralization: Making a broad assumption about something from a limited experience. This is often communicated with words like “always” or “never” in relation to a single event. Examples include, “I’ll never get that promotion.” “She always does that!”

Minimizing/Magnifying (also known as Catastrophizing): Seeing things as dramatically more or less important than they are, often creating a subsequent “catastrophe.” For instance, “Today is the worst day of my life.” “I forgot that email, so my boss won’t trust me again, I won’t get that raise, and my wife will leave me.”

Labeling: Attaching a negative label and judgment to yourself or others based on a single characteristic or event. Examples include, “I didn’t stand up to my co-worker; I’m such a wimp!” “I made a mistake; I’m such a failure!” “What an idiot, he couldn’t see that coming!”

Jumping to Conclusions: Making negative assumptions about how people see you or about the future without evidence or factual support. For example, “I saw some colleagues talking after my presentation; they must have been criticizing my performance.” “I’m going to be single for the rest of my life.”

Blame & Personalization: Blaming yourself when you weren’t entirely responsible or blaming other people and denying your role in the situation. Examples include, “I’m to blame for all of this.” “It’s all his fault.” “If she hadn’t yelled at me, I wouldn’t have been angry and wouldn’t have had that car accident.”

Emotional Reasoning: Reasoning and making decisions based solely on your emotions and despite possible contrary evidence—”I feel, therefore it’s true.” This thinking assumes that a feeling is true without digging deeper to see if it’s accurate. Examples include, “I feel like such an idiot [it must be true].” “I feel guilty [I must have done something wrong].” “I feel depressed, therefore I can’t do anything.”

Mental Filter: Focusing only on the negative and filtering out the positive. Some examples: 1. You have a great evening and dinner at a restaurant with friends, but you hit traffic on the way back, and that spoiled the whole evening for you. 2. You get your job evaluation feedback and it has glowing reviews, but you focus on the one comment about the minor improvement you need to make.

Discounting the Positive: Not acknowledging the positive or insisting that your positive actions, qualities, or achievements don’t count. This is similar to mental filter, but instead of dwelling on the negative and dismissing the positive, you instead acknowledge the positive and then dismiss it. For example, after accomplishing something, saying: “Anyone could have done it,” or “Thanks, but I made a mistake. Didn’t you notice?”

“Should” Statements: Imposing fixed rules on how you, others, and the world “should” operate, and feeling guilty or frustrated if expectations are not met. Examples include: “I should’ve known better.” “I shouldn’t make mistakes.” “He shouldn’t be driving that way.” “The world should be fair.” Some Christians are confused with this distortion because we think, “aren’t there things we should do?” Like reading our Bible, going to church, praying, and so on? Yes, these are good things to do, but Satan wants us to engage in “should” thinking because it imposes rules on us (making us believe it’s God’s rules) and leads to an external pressure that can cause guilt and shame when we don’t do them. Instead, God wants us to do these things from an internal desire and motivation, and out of love, not obligation. “I want to pray” is more motivating and desired by God than “I have to or should pray.”

These cognitive distortions are “strongholds” that must be systematically demolished (2 Cor. 10:4–6). We must “lay aside every weight, and the sin which so easily ensnares us” (Heb. 12:1). You may see change instantly, or it may take some time, but it will happen. God created our brains with neuroplasticity; they’re malleable and can be reshaped over time. (For more information, see Sally Lam-Phoon’s 2010 article, “Mind Renewal,” in the Adventist Review. adventistreview.org/2010-1534/2010-1534-28/.)

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What lies have you believed about yourself and/or others?`

` `