---
title:  Christ Who Strengthens Me
date:  22/01/2025
---

#### inVite

We might succeed in defeating a few cognitive distortions in the strength of our own self-discipline, but as believers, we know our minds are spiritual battlegrounds. We cannot overcome all the lies of the enemy without the power of Christ living and dwelling inside us. The peace that’s from God “surpasses all understanding” (Phil. 4:7). It defies explanation. For all who are tempted to think this peace is out of reach, the text promises, “I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me” (v. 13). The key is having faith that Christ can and does strengthen us. We must have faith that the power of the Holy Spirit can transform our thought patterns.

When we invite Christ into our mind, He speaks to our conscience and gradually molds us. We learn to listen to His voice and then act on what He tells us. We spend regular quiet time with God, praying and learning to hear His voice. Each day, if we pray for the mind of Christ, He will give it to us (Phil. 2:5). New habits take time. Genuine change of any habit takes work. It takes resolve to resist our old habits and negative thoughts.

When unwanted feelings arise, notice them and label them. Allow yourself to feel them for a time, but then pray to God, asking Him to help you remove those negative thoughts and feelings from your mind. Some of the most common negative emotions that trap people and cause serious illnesses are discouragement, bitterness, resentment, fear, anxiety, and hopelessness. Sometimes we can get so used to negative moods and thoughts that we hardly notice them. We need to pray to God for deliverance, asking Him to help us realize when our minds are racing in a negative direction and seeking His help in naming the emotion(s).

As we pray, we should use the Word of God to confront lies with truth. We need to speak the truth to our minds to get rid of the lies that are either trying to take residence or have been hanging around in our minds (see 2 Cor. 10:4–6). When tempted in the wilderness by Satan, Jesus responded with truth to drive him away, and so should we (Matt. 4:4). We must seek and meditate on Bible verses that speak comforting, freeing truths to our minds.

The path to healing can be a challenging journey with lots of ups and downs. Healing often happens best when you have a mentor, coach, therapist, pastor, or doctor to help. Our best prayers should always be combined with our best effort, which should include seeking and utilizing the resources available in our church and community.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Philippians 4:6–13 again and look for what Jesus wants to do within you.`

`In what ways have you experienced God’s peace? In what areas would you like to experience it more fully?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`