---
title:  Guarded Thoughts
date:  23/01/2025
---

#### inSight

“The paralytic found in Christ healing for both the soul and the body. He needed health of soul before he could appreciate health of body. Before the physical malady could be healed, Christ must bring relief to the mind, and cleanse the soul from sin. This lesson should not be overlooked. There are today thousands suffering from physical disease who, like the paralytic, are longing for the message, ‘Thy sins are forgiven.’ The burden of sin, with its unrest and unsatisfied desires, is the foundation of their maladies. They can find no relief until they come to the Healer of the soul. The peace which He alone can impart would restore vigor to the mind and health to the body” (Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing [1905], 77).

“The influence of the mind on the body, as well as of the body on the mind, should be emphasized. The electric power of the brain, promoted by mental activity, vitalizes the whole system, and is thus an invaluable aid in resisting disease. This should be made plain. The power of the will and the importance of self-control, both in the preservation and in the recovery of health, the depressing and even ruinous effect of anger, discontent, selfishness, or impurity, and, on the other hand, the marvelous life-giving power to be found in cheerfulness, unselfishness, gratitude, should also be shown” (Ellen G. White, Education [1903], 197).

“The thoughts may be guarded and controlled by your own determined efforts. Think right thoughts, and you will perform right actions. You have, then, to guard the affections, not letting them go out and fasten upon improper objects. Jesus has purchased you with His own life; you belong to Him; therefore He is to be consulted in all things, as to how the powers of your mind and the affections of your heart shall be employed” (Ellen G. White, Adventist Home [1952], 54).

“The only security for any soul is right thinking. As a man ‘thinketh in his heart, so is he.’ Proverbs 23:7. The power of self-restraint strengthens by exercise. That which at first seems difficult, by constant repetition grows easy, until right thoughts and actions become habitual. If we will we may turn away from all that is cheap and inferior, and rise to a high standard; we may be respected by men and beloved of God” (White, The Ministry of Healing [1905], 491).

“Your last thought at night, your first thought in the morning, should be of Him in whom is centered your hope of eternal life” (Ellen G. White, Letter 19, 1895).

#### Journal

`After this week’s study, what personal applications are you convicted of in your life?`

`What practical lessons or applications could you share with friends and family?`

`Review your memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`