---
title:  A Harvest of Destiny
date:  02/04/2023
---

#### inGest

Revelation 14 is Jesus’ final message of mercy to a fallen and rebellious world that has, for about 6,000 years, been steeped in sin and evil. Revelation’s message of Christ’s righteousness, which delivers us from the condemnation of sin as well as from the grip of sin in our lives, will echo and reecho throughout the earth.

Jesus’ promise that “this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world” given in Matthew 24:14, finds its final fulfillment in Christ’s last-day message, in Revelation 14:6, which says the gospel is proclaimed to “every nation, tribe, tongue, and people.”

Three times in Revelation 22 Jesus says that He is coming quickly (verses 7, 12, 20). In the context of His soon return our Lord adds, “He who is unjust, let him be unjust still; he who is filthy, let him be filthy still; he who is righteous, let him be righteous still; he who is holy, let him be holy still” (verse 11). Revelation moves to one glorious climax where every person is led to decide for or against Christ.

Of course, every day, by our choices in even the so-called little things, we are choosing either for or against Jesus. It’s not likely that someone who constantly makes the wrong choices in their life now will suddenly at the final crisis come down on Jesus’ side, especially when the force of the whole evil world is against them. Now, today, and every day we must choose to be faithful to Christ and to His commandments. “For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments” (1 John 5:3, NKJV). As Ellen G. White has said: “Jesus does not change the character at His coming. The work of transformation must be done now. Our daily lives are determining our destiny” (Last Day Events [Nampa, Idaho: Pacific Press Publishing Association, 1992], p. 295).

In Revelation 14 there are two harvests. The harvest of golden grain represents the righteous, and the harvest of gory grapes represents the unrighteous or the lost. Both harvests are fully ripe. Every seed that was sown is fully mature.

“Another angel came out from the altar, who had power over fire” (Rev. 14:18). Here is the angel who commands the fires of God’s final judgment. The harvest is ripe. Sin has reached its limits. Rebellion has crossed the line of God’s mercy. As evil and bad as things have been, it’s going to get even worse before it’s all over. Our loving God has done everything He can for us, which includes offering Himself on the cross as a sacrifice for our sin. “For He made Him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in Him” (2 Cor. 5:21; see also Gal. 3:13).

What more could God have done beyond that cross? There is nothing more grace can do to redeem those who have repeatedly rejected the Holy Spirit.

Here is the urgent prophetic message of Revelation 14: Every seed has gone to harvest. The grain is fully ripe, and the grapes are fully ripe. The people of God reveal His image of grace, compassion, mercy, and love before the universe. The followers of the evil one reveal greed, lust, jealousy, and hate. The character of Jesus is revealed in one group and the character of Satan in the other.

The universe will see in the people of God a revelation of righteousness that, perhaps, no generation before it has ever witnessed. In contrast to the righteousness of Christ revealed in His people, the universe will see the full results of rebellion against God. Wickedness, evil, sin, and lawlessness will be on full display before human beings and angels. The contrast between good and evil, right and wrong, obedience and disobedience, will be apparent to all the universe, to both humans and angels.

Journal:

`How does God shape our characters? What means does He use to help us to grow in grace? What can we do to more fully allow the Holy Spirit to transform us to be more like Jesus?`

`How well can you discern the contrast between good and evil? Why is it important that we do? (See Heb. 5:14.)`

` `