---
title:  The Son of Man
date:  03/04/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Revelation 14 contains the key texts regarding the Lord’s last-day message to His people and to the world. Central to it all is the return of Jesus, the fulfillment of His promise that “you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power, and coming with the clouds of heaven” (Mark 14:62).

Jesus used the term “Son of Man” to refer to Himself 82 times in the Gospels. It was one of His favorite titles. He used it as an expression of endearment to identify with us. He is a Savior who understands us, has experienced our temptations, and has passed through our trials. He is the “Son of Man” who is returning to take us home. The Jesus who comes for us is the same Jesus who lived among us. He is qualified to redeem us because He became one of us, and as one of us, He met the full fury of Satan’s temptations and was victorious.

In Matthew 16:27; 24:27, 30; and 25:31, 32, notice the following elements: (1) Jesus, the Son of Man, is coming in glory with His angels; (2) He will divide the sheep from the goats (judgment); (3) the destiny of the nations and of all humanity will be decided for eternity.

Think about the term “Son of Man” and what it says of Christ’s humanity. Though God, He became just like us, but unlike us, He never sinned. What amazing hope does this offer you in terms of knowing God’s love for us and knowing that He can relate to your struggles and give you victory over them?

John states that “I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and on the cloud sat One like the Son of Man” (Rev. 14:14). When Jesus ascended to heaven, Luke records in Acts 1:9 that as the disciples stood gazing up at the sky, “He [Jesus] was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight.” The angels then declared to the amazed disciples in Acts 1:11: “This same Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will so come in like manner as you saw Him go into heaven.” Jesus ascended in a cloud of angels and will return in a cloud of angels. Furthermore, there is a divine truth embedded in this passage that may not be apparent: this “same Jesus,” the “Son of Man,” the one who walked the dusty streets of Nazareth, ministered in the crowded streets of Jerusalem, healed the sick in the villages of Israel, and preached on the grassy hillsides of Galilee is coming again.

The Son of Man is also mentioned in light of the judgment in Daniel 7. Daniel views the seating of the heavenly court with ten thousand times ten thousand angelic, heavenly beings gathered around the throne. The judgment is set and the books—the celestial records of our lives—are opened before the universe. In Daniel 7:13, 14, the Son of Man approaches the Ancient of Days, the Father, and receives His eternal kingdom. The judgment reveals before the entire universe that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit have done everything possible to save all humanity. This judgment vindicates not only the saints but God’s own character against the false charges of Satan (see Job 1; 2; Ps. 51:1–4).

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Think about the fact that your whole life will come under scrutiny before God. What, then, is your only hope when this happens? (See Rom. 8:1.)`

` `