---
title:  The Experience of Victory
date:  05/04/2023
---

#### inVite

John describes Jesus as the “Son of Man, having on His head a golden crown, and in His hand a sharp sickle” (Rev. 14:14). The word for “crown” is stephanos, a victor’s crown. When an athlete won an important contest, he was given a stephanos, a crown of honor, of glory, of victory.

Jesus once wore a crown of thorns, symbolizing shame and mockery. He was once despised and rejected by men. He was reviled, ridiculed, spat upon, beaten, and whipped. But now He wears a crown of glory and comes again, this time as King of kings and Lord of lords.

In Revelation 14:15 the angel comes from the presence of God in the glory of the temple and says, “It’s time. The harvest is fully ripe.” In other words, “Go, get Your children and bring them home.”

Jesus repeatedly uses illustrations from agriculture in the New Testament. On more than one occasion He uses the symbolism of a ripening harvest to illustrate the growth of the seed of the gospel in the lives of His people.

“The germination of the seed represents the beginning of spiritual life, and the development of the plant is a beautiful figure of Christian growth. As in nature, so in grace; there can be no life without growth. The plant must either grow or die. As its growth is silent and imperceptible, but continuous, so is the development of the Christian life. At every stage of development our life may be perfect; yet if God’s purpose for us is fulfilled, there will be continual advancement. Sanctification is the work of a lifetime. As our opportunities multiply, our experience will enlarge, and our knowledge increase” (Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons [Washington, D.C.: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1900, 1941], pp. 65, 66).

Subtly, almost unnoticed at first, our characters and our personalities change based on the seeds that we are sowing in our minds. Sow good seeds, and you will produce good fruit. Sow the evil seeds of this world, and you will produce the fruit of this world in your character. If we sow indifference to God and His spiritual values and priorities, we reap the fruit of indifference: apathy, spiritual complacency, and frustration in our spiritual lives. This is why those who think, Well, I know that one day final persecution will come—the “mark of the beast” and so forth, but I will get it together when it does, are choosing a very dangerous path. God calls us now, at this moment, to surrender our lives to Him. The longer one delays responding to the Holy Spirit, the harder one’s soul becomes to the promptings of God, and the more susceptible to falling for and believing in the lies of the evil one it becomes.

The ripening of the golden grain represents all those who are transformed by grace, motivated by love, and living obedient lives to the glory of Christ’s name. Their hearts are one with Jesus’ heart, and all they want is what He wants.

Journal:

`Meditate on Revelation 14:14–20 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`Which trajectory are you growing in? How do you know?`

`How can we experience Jesus’ victory now?`

` `