---
title:  Ephesians in the Heart
date:   23/09/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 1–6

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “I mean that you have been saved by grace [mercy] because you believed. You did not save yourselves; it [being saved] was a gift from God. You are not saved by the things you have done, so there is nothing to boast [brag] about. God has made us what we are. In Christ Jesus, God made us new people so that we would spend our lives doing the good things he had already planned for us to do” (Ephesians 2:8–10, ERV).

Visitors to London, England, can get on a special ride named the London Eye. The London Eye is much the same as a Ferris wheel that you can see at most amusement parks. The London Eye takes you 450 feet above the River Thames. You can get a good view from there that lets you see many important things in London: the Big Ben clock tower, the government buildings, royal palaces, and famous churches. New Testament thinker Thomas Wright says that Paul’s letter to the Ephesians is much the same as the London Eye. That’s because Ephesians, more than any of Paul’s other letters, “shows us a big picture of the ideas Paul writes about in his other New Testament letters.”—Paul for Everyone: The Prison Letters (Louisville, KY: Westminster John Knox Press, 2004), page 3, adapted.

In Ephesians, Paul writes as if he is talking to Christians everywhere. As we read each chapter, let us remember this question: What important Bible truths in Ephesians should continue to change our lives today?