---
title:  We are Blessed in Jesus
date:   24/09/2023
---

`Read Ephesians 1 and think deeply about its meaning. Which Bible truths in this chapter touch your heart the most? What are your favorite topics in this chapter?`

Ephesians 1 tells us all about God’s saving plan, from the past before He made this earth to the future. In this chapter, we read about God’s mercy and the things He does for us in Jesus. God’s saving plan shows us that He took action to save us before He made the skies and earth (Ephesians 1:4). The plans God made to save us are now happening in our lives (read Ephesians 1:7, 8, 13, 14). God’s saving plan will be finished fully when Jesus comes back (Ephesians 1:9, 10). Then God will join together in agreement all things in heaven and earth. God will put Jesus in charge of everything (Ephesians 1:10). Now, we can be sure that God’s plan to save us in Jesus is part of His big plan to make everything new and better in the future.

Thanksgiving, also, is an important topic in Ephesians 1. In Ephesians 1:15–19, Paul gives thanks to God. Paul prays that Christians will experience the joy of being saved. Paul helps us to put our attention on Jesus, who woke up from the dead. This same Jesus went to heaven where God put Him over every power, leader, and government for all time (Ephesians 1:20–23).

God shows us His mercy in Jesus, His Son, who died for our sins. By our faith in God’s mercy, we may live now with Jesus in heaven!

`Paul tells us that “God chose us to belong to Christ before the world was created [made]. He chose us to be holy and without blame in his eyes. He loved us” (Ephesians 1:4, NIrV). Think about what this verse means. God chose us to belong to Jesus before He made this earth! Wow! What hope does this wonderful Bible truth give you? What does this Bible truth tell you about how much God wants you to be saved?`