---
title:  The Fellowship of Christians
date:   25/09/2023
---

`Read Ephesians 2. As you do, try to answer this question: What have God and His Son done for us?`

In Ephesians 2:1–10, Paul talks about the awful lives that his readers lived in the past before they met Jesus. As sinners, they were fighting against God and His law. Satan and sin controlled their lives (Ephesians 2:1–3).

What did God do for these sinners? The same thing He does for us:

1\. God made us alive with Jesus. Jesus’ resurrection or waking up from the dead is God’s promise to us of new spiritual life now and everlasting life in heaven.

2\. God took us to heaven with Jesus. So, the honor Jesus got when He went to heaven belongs to us, too.

3\. In heaven, God seated us with Jesus. Jesus was crowned King of kings. His crown is our crown (Ephesians 2:4–7).

We aren’t only watchers who look at the wonderful things that happened to Jesus. God wants us to live these wonderful experiences for ourselves. Why does God do these things for us? God doesn’t include us in Jesus’ experiences because of our own good behavior. God includes us in Jesus’ wonderful experiences because of His mercy (Ephesians 2:8, 9). God wants us to live in perfect peace and agreement with Jesus and to do “good things” (Ephesians 2:10, ERV).

Ephesians 2:11–22 teaches us that we live in fellowship with other Christians in God’s church. This fellowship is God’s plan. Jesus’ death makes it possible for God to show us mercy and to adopt us as His children (Ephesians 2:1–10). Jesus’ death also makes possible our fellowship with other Christians (Ephesians 2:11–22). Because of the Cross, Jesus can destroy everything that separates non-Jewish Christians from Jewish Christians. Jesus is so powerful that He can correct our misunderstanding of His law (Ephesians 2:11–18). Jesus also builds a new temple that is made of Christians. Non-Jews, who weren’t allowed to worship in the temple in the past, now can join Jewish Christians in becoming one in heart and mind. We, also, become part of God’s church, which is the same as a holy temple for God (Ephesians 2:19–22).

Because of God’s mercy, you have the joy and blessing today of joining in fellowship with Jesus and other Christians.