---
title:  We are the Church of the Living God
date:   26/09/2023
---

`Why is it both important and exciting to be part of God’s church? Read Ephesians 3 for the answer.`

In Ephesians 3, Paul gives a report about the church. Paul starts his report with his prayers for Christians in Ephesus (Ephesians 3:1; compare Ephesians 1:15–23.) But then Paul stops his prayer report to talk about how God planned and made the church (Ephesians 3:2–13). Paul finishes his prayer report in Ephesians 3:14–21. Along the way, we learn many important things from Paul about God’s “plan” or “mystery”:

* Before time started, God made His plan for the church (Ephesians 3:3–5, 9, 11). This plan was a secret or mystery.
* Jesus’ life and death show us God’s plan (Ephesians 3:11; compare Ephesians 2:11–22).
* God gives Paul special knowledge to understand His plan for the church. God also tells Paul some surprising news: the non-Jews are part of His plan. God accepts non-Jewish Christians fully as members of His church, the same as Jewish Christians (Ephesians 3:3–6).
* God chooses Paul to be the preacher to the non-Jews. Paul shares this good news in his sermons to the non-Jews. Paul tells the non-Jews “about the riches Christ has” (Ephesians 3:8, ERV; also, read Ephesians 3:9).
* The church is made of Jews and non-Jews. The different people groups in the church show God’s wisdom to Satan and his evil angels (Ephesians 3:10). The agreement in the church is the same as an announcement to Satan and his evil angels. This announcement warns them that they will be destroyed soon in the future (compare Ephesians 6:10–20). God’s secret also includes the plan to join all things in Jesus (Ephesians 1:10). This plan is happening right now. So, Satan and his evil angels don’t have much time left.

God’s plan for the church encourages Paul to pray for church members. Why not imagine a picture of Paul praying for you? Imagine him praying that you will be “filled with everything God has for you” (Ephesians 3:19, NIrV). Promise to do your part to bring peace and agreement in the church.