---
title:  Faith Makes Us One in Heart and Mind
date:   27/09/2023
---

`In Ephesians 4, Paul asks Christians to stop doing some things and to be sure to do other things. What are the things that Paul tells Christians to do and not to do?`

Paul starts and ends Ephesians 4 with a command for church members to love and forgive each other (Ephesians 4:1–3, 32). Paul also wants us to do everything we can do to have peace and agreement in the church. Paul starts with a list of seven Bible truths that will cause us to be at peace with each other: We must have (1) one body (the church) (2) one Spirit, (3) one hope, (4) one Lord (Jesus Christ), (5) one faith, (6) one baptism, and (7) one God and Father (Ephesians 4:4–6). These spiritual truths connect us together. They join us together as one with God.

The Bible promises us peace and agreement. At the same time, we must work hard if we want to have them. So, we always must “work hard to live together as one by the help of the Holy Spirit. Then there will be peace” (Ephesians 4:3, NLV). One way we do this is by our being a part of Jesus’ body or church (Ephesians 4:7–16). The Holy Spirit gives each church member gifts. Church members should use their gifts to help the church be strong and healthy (Ephesians 4:7, 16). All church members also should be blessed by the work of church leaders, special messengers, traveling preachers, pastors, and teachers (Ephesians 4:11, 12). The different groups are the same as different parts of the body. Together, these different parts help the church grow strong in Jesus. Jesus is the same as the Head of the body, which is His church (Ephesians 4:13, 15).

Paul also tells church members, “The body of Christ must grow so that we will no longer be like [the same as] children. We are like children when we are pushed [keep changing our minds] this way and that way [all the time]. We change our minds every time people bring a different teaching. Some teachers teach the lies of men and fool [trick] people so that they believe wrong things” (Ephesians 4:14, WE). This verse gives us a hint that church members were in danger from false teachings.

Paul asks church members to avoid having hard hearts as they did in the past (Ephesians 4:17–24). Paul also tells them to avoid anger and mean and nasty words. They should say loving words (Ephesians 4:25–31) and forgive each other (Ephesians 4:32).