---
title:  Getting and Giving Mercy
date:   28/09/2023
---

`Read Ephesians 5 and think about how Paul asks us to show the Good News to our friends, coworkers, and family members. What does Paul say that means the most to you?`

If you want to understand fully Ephesians 5, you must start with Ephesians 4:32. In Ephesians 4:32, Paul tells his readers, “You must be kind to each other. Think of the other person. Forgive other people just as God forgave you because of Christ’s death on the cross” (Ephesians 4:32, NLV). This verse helps us to understand better an important topic in chapter 5: we must show other people the love, mercy, and forgiveness that God shows us. That is how we copy God’s behavior (compare Matthew 5:43–48).

Paul compares our showing people God’s love with the behavior of people who don’t know God at all. Without Jesus, humans can’t love other people as brothers and sisters in the family of God. All too often, people use each other for sex. Worse, they brag about it (Ephesians 5:3, 4). Paul warns that this behavior will not be part of the kingdom God plans for His people (Ephesians 5:5–7).

Christians must stop behaving the way they did in the past. They must live holy lives and show God’s love (Ephesians 5:8–10). Again, Paul warns us away from evil behavior and from doing secret sins (Ephesians 5:11, 12). We must live as Jesus lived (Ephesians 5:13, 14). We must not get drunk. We must live holy lives. As Christians, we will make the best use of the time that God gives us. We will offer thanks to God for His love (read Ephesians 5:15–21).

Paul also says that Christian husbands and wives should show God’s love in their marriages. Jesus’ love for us on the cross is the example that Christian husbands must follow (Ephesians 5:25–33). Just as the church is loyal to Jesus, the wife must respect and be loyal to her husband (Ephesians 5:22–24). Husbands and wives must not use the gift of sex in a selfish or evil way. Husbands and wives should love each other the same as precious treasure. With God’s help they will become one body, heart, mind, and spirit (Ephesians 5:28–33).

`Ephesians 5:2 tells us to “live a life of love” (ERV). How does verse 2 help us understand what Paul means in verse 1? How can we “try to be like [much the same as] God” (ICB)?`