---
title:  Additional thought
date:   29/09/2023
---

We end our study with Ephesians 6. In this chapter, we discover that we, the church, are the army of God. As God’s army we “fight” against sin and Satan’s evil forces. We help God bring peace to the lives of people on this earth.

As we saw already, Paul compared the church to three things: (1) Jesus’ body (Ephesians 1:22, 23; Ephesians 4:11–16), (2) God’s temple (Ephesians 2:19–22), and (3) Jesus’ bride/wife. In Ephesians 6:10–20, Paul says the church is the same as an army. Paul tells the church to get ready to fight. Many people misunderstand these verses.

Some people think Paul is saying that Christians should fight real wars with real weapons against God’s enemies. Other people think that Paul means that we should always be ready and willing to fight and argue with other people. But Paul doesn’t mean we should fight in those ways. Remember, Paul said that we, as Christians, must be in peace and agreement. We must encourage each other and be loving (read Ephesians 4:25–5:2). Paul explains that God’s Good News is a message about peace (Ephesians 6:15). So, Paul uses the word picture of an army to teach us how we must fight for God. We must not use real weapons against God’s enemies. Our fight against evil is spiritual. Paul asks us to join God’s army and help God bring peace to the lives of humans. They will feel peace when they accept Jesus into their hearts.

Our enemies aren’t just human. Our enemies include evil angels and Satan, their general (Ephesians 6:12). At the same time, we don’t need to be afraid. God is with us in the fight (Ephesians 6:10). God gives us the best weapons and His battle suit (Ephesians 6:11). God gives us His Bible truth, holy life, peace, faith, saving mercy, and His Holy Spirit (Ephesians 6:13–17). With God’s help, we will win. God goes ahead of us into battle. He promises us we will win the fight.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Paul says we were made in Jesus to do good things. How is that true? We’re not saved by our good behavior. So, what is God’s plan for the good things we do?`

`Read Ephesians 3:20. What “power” works in us? How do we show this power in our lives?`