---
title:  Pride Versus Humility
date:  11/04/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 John 2:15–17, Luke 18:9–14, 1 John 1:9, Heb. 11:24–26, Luke 22:24–27, Phil. 2:3–8.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “ ‘For whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted’ ” (Luke 14:11, NKJV).

W e’ve all known people with big egos, those who think they are never wrong. Or perhaps you know someone who wants to be in control, who never is open to instruction or constructive criticism. Or someone who seems to be constantly in conflict or is a master of putting others down. Our minds might immediately think of others, but the real question is: What about each one of us? By pointing the finger at others and denying pride in our own life, we deceive ourselves.

We’ve all battled with pride. We’ve all experienced times we want to look, act, speak, or appear better than those around us because we believe that we are better than they are, at least in some way. Someone once said that pride emerges from the desire to show that our lives have value. Yet, we should already know that our lives have value because we were created by God, and we are those for whom Christ died.

This week we’ll explore the impact that pride can have on our relationships with God and with others, and we’ll look at what the Bible teaches us about humility before others and, of course, before God.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, April 18._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Satan fell because of his ambition to be equal with God. He desired to enter into the divine counsels and purposes, from which he was excluded by his own inability, as a created being, to comprehend the wisdom of the Infinite One. It was this ambitious pride that led to his rebellion, and by the same means he seeks to cause the ruin of man.\
Sin originated in self-seeking. Lucifer, the covering cherub, desired to be first in heaven. He sought to gain control of ­heavenly beings, to draw them away from their Creator, and to win their ho­mage to himself. Therefore he misrepresented God, attributing to Him the desire for self-exaltation. With his own evil characteristics he sought to invest the loving Creator.\
Had Lucifer really desired to be like the Most High, he would never have deserted his appointed place in heaven; for the spirit of the Most High is manifested in unselfish ministry. Lucifer desired God’s power, but not His character. He sought for himself the highest place, and every being who is actuated by his spirit will do the same.\
Whenever pride and ambition are indulged, the life is marred; for pride, feeling no need, closes the heart against the infinite bles­sings of Heaven.\
Pride of heart is a fearful trait of character. “Pride goeth before destruction.” This is true in the family, the church, and the nation.—The Faith I Live By, p. 68.

It is today that the sweet voice of mercy is falling upon your ears. It is today that the heavenly invitation comes to you. It is today that in Heaven everything says, Come.\
Come, for all things are now ready. Whosoever will, let him come and partake of the waters of life freely. It is now that we want childlike simplicity. We want to see everything like pride, and vanity, and folly, put away. We have the Judgment in view. Men and women will want strength that is greater than any human aid to lean upon. They must lean upon the mighty arm of Jehovah. We have in view that day when the works of men are to be tried, and tested; and we want you to get ready. . . . We make appeals to you to rid yourselves of the pride of the world, the pride and vanity, and folly, of life. Jesus loves you. Jesus pities you. The angelic host He sends to minister unto you. And now, while all Heaven is interested for you, will you be interested for yourselves?\
Some men seem afraid to take God at His word as though it would be presumption in them. They pray for the Lord to teach us and yet are afraid to credit the pledged word of God and believe we have been taught of Him. So long as we come to our heavenly Father humbly and with a spirit to be taught, willing and anxious to learn, why should we doubt God’s fulfillment of His own promise? . . . When you have sought to know His will, your part in the operation with God is to believe that you will be led and guided and blessed in the doing of His will. . . . It is Christ who is guiding His people today, showing them where and how to work.—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 67.
