---
title:  Further Thought
date:  17/04/2026
---

“The nearer we come to Jesus and the more clearly we discern the purity of His character, the more clearly we shall discern the exceeding sinfulness of sin and the less we shall feel like exalting ourselves. Those whom heaven recognizes as holy ones are the last to parade their own goodness.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 160.

“Before honor is humility. To fill a high place before men, Heaven chooses the worker who, like John the Baptist, takes a lowly place before God. The most childlike disciple is the most efficient in labor for God. The heavenly intelligences can co-operate with him who is seeking, not to exalt self, but to save souls. . . .

“When men exalt themselves, feeling that they are a necessity for the success of God’s great plan, the Lord causes them to be set aside. . . .

“It was not enough for the disciples of Jesus to be instructed as to the nature of His kingdom. What they needed was a change of heart that would bring them into harmony with its principles. . . . The simplicity, the self-forgetfulness, and the confiding love of a little child are the attributes that Heaven values. These are the characteristics of real greatness. . . .

“The sincere, contrite soul is precious in the sight of God. He places His own signet upon men, not by their rank, not by their wealth, not by their intellectual greatness, but by their oneness with Christ.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 436, 437.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What additional insights do the following verses have about pride and humility: Matthew 23:12; Psalm 25:9; Psalm 149:4; and James 4:6, 10?`

`Think honestly: When did you last “parade your own goodness”? How did this impact your relationship with God or those before whom you paraded it?`

`What might you need to change in your life to humble yourself before God in order to strengthen your walk with Him?`

**Summary**: Pride can be one of the greatest blocks to growing in a relationship with God. If we feel self-sufficient and don’t realize our need of this relationship, we simply won’t pursue it. In contrast, Jesus was the humblest Man on earth and the most perfect example of how to have a close relationship with God.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Conflict and Courage, “True Riches,” July 7, p. 194.\
The Faith I Live By, “Peace Through the Cross,” April 7, p. 103.\