---
title:  Further Thought
date:  29/11/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Test of Discipleship,” pp. 57–65, in Steps to Christ.

“There are those who have known the pardoning love of Christ and who really desire to be children of God, yet they realize that their character is imperfect, their life faulty, and they are ready to doubt whether their hearts have been renewed by the Holy Spirit. To such I would say, Do not draw back in despair. We shall often have to bow down and weep at the feet of Jesus because of our shortcomings and mistakes, but we are not to be discouraged. Even if we are overcome by the enemy, we are not cast off, not forsaken and rejected of God. No; Christ is at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. . . . He desires to restore you to Himself, to see His own purity and holiness reflected in you. And if you will but yield yourself to Him, He that hath begun a good work in you will carry it forward to the day of Jesus Christ. Pray more fervently; believe more fully. As we come to distrust our own power, let us trust the power of our Redeemer, and we shall praise Him who is the health of our countenance.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, p. 64.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think about Daniel 2 and how Daniel, thousands of years ago, so accurately predicted the rise and fall of empires, even depicting (very accurately) the disunity of modern Europe today. How can we learn to draw comfort from this prophecy, which so powerfully shows us, even amid the chaos of the world, that God knows all that is happening and has even predicted it?`

`God knows all about us. This is comforting and gives us security and the assurance that we are in His care. “But now, this is what the Lord says—he who created you, Jacob, he who formed you, Israel: ‘Do not fear, for I have redeemed you; I have summoned you by name; you are mine’ ” (Isa. 43:1, NIV). How can you assure others of God’s presence and care when they go through emotional, relational, social, or financial crises?`

`Dwell more on the issue, in Wednesday’s study, of Ezra’s not wanting to call on the king for help because he was afraid that it would make his words about God’s protection seem hollow. We know, for example, that God is a healer. Does this mean, then, that we are showing a lack of faith in Him to heal us if we go to a medical doctor? Discuss this issue in class.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Steps to Christ_, “The Test of Discipleship,” pp. 57–65; 

_Maranatha_, “To Weep or to Rejoice?” p. 39. 