---
title:  A FLAT EARTH?
date:   24/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Many people during Bible times thought that our earth was flat. Most people understood that the earth was round. They had good reasons for thinking this way. Even so, today, many people continue to say that the Bible itself teaches that the earth is flat.

`Read Revelation 7:1 and Revelation 20:7, 8. What are these verses talking about? More important, do these verses teach us that the earth is flat?`

John is the writer of these verses. He is writing about the end times. He writes about the four angels of heaven “standing at the four corners of the earth. The angels were holding the four winds of the earth” (Revelation 7:1, ERV). Do you see in this verse that John writes the word “four” three times? That is because John wants us to connect in our minds the angels to the four directions on a compass: north, south, east, and west.

So, John is using word pictures here. We do the same thing today. We say “the sun sets” or the wind “comes from the east.” The verses show us that the four winds are word pictures for the four directions: north, south, east, and west. So, we must not say that the four directions here are real. That explanation makes the verses say something that they are not teaching at all. Jesus uses word pictures Himself in the same way that John does. He uses the word “heart” to talk about where evil thoughts get started. He said: “Evil thoughts come out of a person’s heart” (Matthew 15:19, NIrV). Jesus is not talking about a real human heart. He uses the human heart as a word picture to teach us Bible truth about where sin starts inside us.

`Read Job 26:7–10 and Isaiah 40:21, 22. What do they teach us about the earth?`

Job 26:7 (ERV), shows us that the earth hangs in space: “ ‘God stretched the northern sky over empty space. He hung the earth on nothing.’ ” The earth’s shape is the same as a “ ‘circle’ ” (Job 26:10, EXB). It is not flat. Isaiah 40:22 (ICB), says: “God sits on his throne above the circle of the earth. And compared to him, people are like grasshoppers. He stretches out the skies [all the space above the earth; the sky] like a piece of cloth. He spreads them [the sky] out like a tent to sit under.”

_The four winds are word pictures for the four directions: north, south, east, and west._
