---
title:  WRITINGS FROM BIBLE TIMES ABOUT HOW HUMANS WERE MADE
date:   25/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Archaeologists are scientists who dig up the past. They have dug up writings from Egypt during Bible times. These Egyptian writings contain histories about the Flood and how the earth started. These stories are older than the Bible. So, people started to wonder if Moses copied these Egyptian stories in the Bible when he wrote Genesis. But is that really true?

`Read Genesis 1–2:4. Then read these verses taken from the Atra-Hasis story: “Long ago, the gods did all the work, not humans. The gods carried heavy workloads.  The work was too hard for them. It was too much trouble.... So, the gods said ‘Let the female god Nintu make human children. Let humans do the work that the gods used to do!’... Geshtu-e was a god who was very smart. The other gods killed him. Then the female god Nintu mixed clay together with Geshtu-e’s body and blood to make humans.”—Stephanie Dalley, Myths From Mesopotamia: Creation, the Flood, Gilgamesh, and Others (New York: Oxford University Press, 1989), pages 9, 14, 15, adapted. How are the Genesis story and the Atra-Hasis story different?`

Yes, there are some things that are the same in both stories. The first humans in both stories are made of clay. But the two stories are more different than they are alike.

(1) In Atra-Hasis, humans work for the gods so that the gods can rest. In Genesis, God makes the earth and everything in it for humans. Then God rests with them. In Genesis, God puts humans in a garden. Then God invites the humans to talk with Him and take care of the earth. We do not see this idea in Atra-Hasis at all.

(2) In Atra-Hasis, a god is killed. Then the gods mix his blood with clay to make seven males and females. In Genesis, Adam is made by God Himself first. Then Eve is made later to help him. God breathes life into Adam. God does not make Adam and Eve from the blood of a dead god.

(3) Suffering and pain is not part of life for humans in the beginning in Genesis. But that is not true in Atra-Hasis.

The Bible story about the start of human life is lovely. It shows an all-powerful God who makes humans for a holy reason to live on a perfect earth. In the end, the Genesis story is very different from the Atra-Hasis story.

_In Genesis, God puts humans in a garden._
