---
title:  GENESIS DOES NOT TEACH NATURE WORSHIP
date:   26/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Genesis does not depend on made-up stories from other religions in Bible times about how life started. Moses wrote Genesis to show that these made-up stories are not true. He shows that only God made the sky and the earth.

`Read Genesis 1:14–19. What does God make on the 4th day? What does Moses explain that they do?`

Moses does not write the words “sun” and “moon.” For sure, he wants to avoid these words. Their names in Hebrew were the same as the names of the sun god and moon god in the Near East and Egypt during Bible times. Moses names the sun the “brighter light” (Genesis 1:16, NLV). He names the moon the “smaller light.” These names show us that God made the sun and the moon to do special work. “God put these lights in the sky to shine on the earth” (Genesis 1:17, ERV). “He put them there to separate the light from the darkness” (Genesis 1:18, ICB). So, the verses show us very clearly that the sun and moon were not gods. They were objects in nature that God made to do work.

`Read Genesis 2:7, 18–24. How is God closely connected to the work of making Adam and Eve?`

The Near Eastern stories show that the gods made humans to do hard work. Then the gods did not need to work so hard. But the Bible does not agree with this idea at all. The Bible teaches that God made man and put him in charge of the earth.

Genesis shows us the truth about how life started. It helps to correct false ideas and beliefs from Bible times. Moses used words and ideas in his writing that did not agree with the false ideas about how life started. How did Moses do this? He talked about God’s work and plan for humans when He made them.

Hundreds and hundreds of years ago, the Bible story about how human life started went against the ideas that most people had at the time. Today, this same Bible truth goes against the ideas that most people have about how life started. Why should we not be surprised?

_The Bible teaches that God made man and put him in charge of the earth._
