---
title:  GENESIS AND TIME
date:   27/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Genesis 5 and 11. How does the Bible show us human history from Adam to Noah and from Noah to Abraham?`

In the Bible, we find long lists of names. These lists show us fathers and sons. These lists also show us time. So, we find that the information in these lists has two parts: (1) a person’s name and (2) the time when his son was born. Here is an example: “When Person #1 lived a certain number of years, he became the father to Person #2.

“Then Person #1 lived many more years after he had other sons and daughters.” Genesis 5 adds a new part: “Person #1 lived a total number of years. Then he died.” Genesis 5 and Genesis 11 show us all the future children of Adam. Nobody extra was added to the list. Nobody is missing. 1 Chronicles 1:18–27 shows us this information is correct. In this way, the Bible explains itself.

For almost 2,000 years, Jewish and Christian Bible thinkers taught that Genesis 5 and 11 show us history. These chapters also help us to know the date that the Flood happened and how old the earth is.

Not long ago, people started to give new explanations for Genesis 5 and 11. These thinkers said that the information from science and history shows that the earth was not made in six days. They also say the earth is very old too. If they are right, then we cannot trust the Bible to be true.

But we know that we can trust the Bible. We know that Genesis 5 and 11 show us the truth “about God and history. These two chapters connect Adam to the rest of the human family. These chapters also connect God with man. Genesis 5 and Genesis 11:10–26 show us God’s people are connected to the man that God made on the 6th day when He made the earth. That man is Adam.”—Gerhard F. Hasel, “The Meaning of the Chronogenealogies of Genesis 5 and 11,” Origins 7/2 [1980], page 69, adapted.

The verses in Genesis 5 and Genesis 11 are in the Bible for a very good reason. At the same time, Paul warns us in 1 Timothy 1:4 and Titus 3:9 about the danger of fighting over lists. What danger does Paul warn us about?

“Genesis 5 and Genesis 11:10–26 show us that God’s people are

connected to the man that God made on the 6th day when He made the earth.”
