---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   29/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**:

Read Gerald A. Klingbeil, editor, The Genesis Creation Account and Its Reverberations in the Old Testament (Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press, 2015).

“The Bible is the best record of history that men have. It can teach men many things. The Bible came from God’s own hand. God’s hand has kept the Bible safe from the time it was written. The Bible is the only book that gives us a true history of our race.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, page 25, adapted.

“I have been shown that rock science by itself cannot prove anything true. Rock science needs help from Bible history. Yes, scientists have found objects from the past in the earth. These objects do show us proof of a time in the past that was different from how things are today. But only Bible history can help us to understand how old these objects really are. It is okay to guess how old something is that we find in nature. That is fine as long as our guesses do not go against Bible facts. But when men turn away from Bible truth and try to explain nature using only science, then they will have trouble. Exactly how God made the sky and the earth in six real days, no one knows. God has not shown this truth to humans. His works are too much for our minds to understand. So is His life.”—Ellen G. White, Spiritual Gifts, book 3, page 93, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. Scientists make explanations that cause many arguments and disagreements. So, why do so many people accept science’s explanations that life on earth started long before there were any humans?`

`2. Modern science says that you cannot use miracles or God to explain what happens in nature. How is this way of thinking too limited when it comes to the story in Genesis 1 and 2? The Genesis story about how God made the earth is something that only God can do. But if you refuse to accept God’s power as the explanation for how the earth was made, then why will any other idea be wrong that you come up with to explain life on earth?`

_“Scientists have found objects from the past in the earth. . . . Only Bible history can help us to understand how old these objects really are.”_
