---
title:  Spiritual War
date:   13/09/2026
---

`Paul was gentle and loving with the Corinthians. So, some church members thought Paul was shy and had no courage. They thought he was too afraid and weak to solve problems. Read 2 Corinthians 10:1–11. What words in these verses show us that Paul had the courage to solve the problem with the false teachers in the church at Corinth?`

Paul starts 2 Corinthians with these words: “I, Paul, need to ask you something” (EASY). Paul is worried about the false teachings in the church. Paul’s enemies accused him of being a mean and nasty bully when he wrote his letters from far away. But they said he was a coward when he ­talked face-to-face with people (2 Corinthians 10:10, 11). Paul says he is not being weak when he is gentle and loving. He is behaving the same way Jesus did.

We must not be afraid to punish false teachers (2 Corinthians 10:2). But we must punish them with a spirit of love in our hearts. Jesus had this same spirit (2 Corinthians 10:1). Jesus said, “ ‘I am gentle [loving] and do not have pride’ ” (Matthew 11:29, NLV). But Jesus also had courage. He turned over the tables of the money changers in the temple. He said they were robbers (Matthew 21:12, 13). Jesus also told the Jewish leaders they were liars. He compared them to graves that were beautiful on the outside only (Matthew 23:23–27). Paul also knows that we are in a spiritual war, just as Jesus did. So, we need to put on God’s battle suit (Ephesians 6:12–17).

In 2 Corinthians 10, Paul uses military words. That’s because we are in a spiritual war against evil. In this fight, we are trying to win people for Jesus. People must choose between life or death. So, we must fight against lies and false teachings. We must destroy these lies and false teachings with Bible truth. When we show that false ideas are wrong, “We change the way that people think, so that they want to obey” Jesus (2 Corinthians 10:5, EASY).

In this spiritual fight, Paul acts with Jesus’ strength and power. This power helps the church grow strong (2 Corinthians 10:8). Church leaders must remember that their strength and power come from Jesus. So, they must empty their hearts of all pride, the same as Jesus did.

`How can we be loving and at the same time strong when we punish false teachers? Why must we be both?`