---
title:  Bragging Only About The Lord
date:   14/09/2026
---

Yesterday, we saw that Paul and his travel partners were in a spiritual war. They used God’s weapons to fight against evil. Today, we will learn that false teachers brag about their skills and ideas. But Paul brags only about the Lord. As Paul wrote, “If a person brags, he should brag only about the Lord” (2 Corinthians 10:17, ICB).

`Sad to say, some preachers brag about their preaching. Why is this behavior so bad for the church? What problems does it cause? Read 2 Corinthians 10:13–17.`

Some people are surprised that Paul brags in these verses. In Bible times, people often bragged about their skills in public. Special rules controlled what they could say. (The rules helped protect them from upsetting their audience.) Paul knew about the rules. He followed them. But Paul doesn’t brag about the things the false teachers bragged about. Paul brags only about Jesus. Paul’s words in 2 Corinthians 10:17 come from the Old Testament: “ ‘But if someone wants to brag, let him brag about this: Let him brag that he understands and knows me. Let him brag that I am the Lord. Let him brag that I am kind and fair. Let him brag that I do things that are right on earth. This kind of bragging pleases me,’ says the Lord” (Jeremiah 9:24, ICB). Paul uses this quote from the Old Testament to show that Jesus is the reason for everything he does.

So, when Paul brags, he really is bragging about Jesus, and not himself. The false teachers compare their teachings to the teachings of other teachers. Paul thinks this behavior is silly (2 Corinthians 10:12)!

In 2 Corinthians 10:14–16, Paul says that preaching the Good News is the most important part of his work in Corinth and everywhere else. Paul’s love for Jesus caused him to talk all the time about the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin. The false teachers in Corinth praised their own skills and teachings. Paul didn’t need to brag about himself. The Lord accepted him and gave him his work (2 Corinthians 10:12, 18; 1 Corinthians 1:1). Paul was loyal to this work to the end of his life (2 Timothy 4:7).

`Read again 2 Corinthians 10:12–18. How can church leaders and members avoid the mistakes of the false teachers? Why is it so wrong to brag about ourselves?`