---
title:  Warning Against False Teachers
date:   15/09/2026
---

The New Testament has many warnings against false teachers in Christian communities. Jesus Himself warned His followers about this problem (Matthew 7:15–20). The New Testament writers also talked about this topic (Galatians 1:6–9; 1 Timothy 6:3–5; 2 Peter 2:1–3).

`What does Paul say about his problems with the false teachers? Read 2 Corinthians 11:1–15 for the answer.`

Paul warns against what the false teachers are doing. At the same time, Paul says that his work is all about Jesus. Paul compares the church in Corinth to a bride. Then Paul compares himself to the bride’s father. Paul says that he has the job of giving her to Jesus, who is the same as the groom (2 Corinthians 11:2). Paul loves the church so much (2 Corinthians 11:11). So, he did everything he could to help her. That’s why he chose not to accept any money or support from the church (2 Corinthians 11:7–12).

On the other hand, Paul compares the false teachers to the snake that lied to Eve (2 Corinthians 11:3). The false teachers in Corinth tell lies, the same as the snake. Their hearts are full of evil (2 Corinthians 11:3, 4). Paul was worried about the false teachers. Paul didn’t want them to trick the Corinthians and lead them away from Jesus.

The false teachers preached a different message than Paul preached. They taught about a different Jesus and a different Good News. Just because someone preaches about Jesus doesn’t mean that God gave him his message. That’s why Jesus warned, “ ‘Some people say to me, “Master, Master!” But not all of them will come into the kingdom of heaven. Only the people who obey God, my Father in heaven, will come in. They do what he wants them to do’ ” (Matthew 7:21, EASY). In Galatians 1:6–9, Paul says that whoever preaches a false message about the Good News is under a curse. Sad to say, some Christians in Corinth allowed people to preach and teach this false message.

Paul warns against these false leaders (2 Corinthians 11:13). They pretend to be followers of Jesus. But they are really servants of Satan (2 Corinthians 11:14, 15). Paul says, “God will punish them in the end” (2 Corinthians 11:15, EASY). Strong words! What does Paul’s warning tell us about what we should think and do about false teachings in the church?