---
title:  Suffering For The Good News
date:   16/09/2026
---

As we saw yesterday, Paul warned that the false teachers were servants of Satan (2 Corinthians 11:1–15). Now Paul makes fun of the false teachers. He brags in the same way the false teachers do (2 Corinthians 11:16–21). Paul does that to show the Corinthians that they were silly to pay attention to anything the false teachers said. If the Corinthians respected the false teachers, they should respect Paul more. Paul suffered much for the Good News. His suffering shows that he is a loyal servant of Jesus (2 Corinthians 11:22, 23).

`Read 2 Corinthians 11:22–28. What is Paul saying in these verses?`

Paul has the same Jewish ancestors as the false teachers (2 Corinthians 11:22). But Paul served Jesus more than they served Him (2 Corinthians 11:23). Paul did more work than they did. Paul went to jail more. The beatings that Paul suffered were far worse than the ones they suffered.

But Paul has more to say. He makes a list of the things he suffered. His list includes five beatings. Paul got whipped 39 times during each of these five beatings (2 Corinthians 11:24). Paul also was beat with sticks. He was hit with stones. He was on ships that broke at sea. He was in danger in deep waters (2 Corinthians 11:25) and from rivers. On his journeys, he was in danger from robbers, Jews, non-Jews, the desert, and false believers (2 Corinthians 11:26). Paul worked hard. He got tired. He worked all night and didn’t sleep. He was hungry and thirsty. Sometimes he didn’t have enough food. He was cold and without clothes at times (2 Corinthians 11:27). During these hard times, he always worried about the churches (2 Corinthians 11:28).

Paul suffered these things because he was a loyal servant for Jesus. If Paul really wanted to brag about his sufferings, he’d have a lot to say! As we will see, Paul doesn’t brag about what he did for Jesus. Paul brags about what Jesus did for him.

`Do you suffer for the Good News about Jesus? What did your experience teach you? How can Paul’s example help you be at peace with your own suffering?`