---
title:  Troublemakers in the Church
date:   17/09/2026
---

In 2 Corinthians 12:14–13:10, Paul tells the church that he is coming to visit them. This will be Paul’s third visit (2 Corinthians 12:14; 2 Corinthians 13:1). People are causing trouble in the church. Paul wants to come to Corinth again to solve the problem. Everything Paul did and said was meant to make the church grow strong (2 Corinthians 12:19).

`What sins were causing trouble in the Corinthian church? Read 2 Corinthians 12:20, 21.`

The list of sins in 2 Corinthians 12:20, 21 is much the same as other lists in Paul’s letters (Romans 1:29–31; Galatians 5:19–21). The first two sins on Paul’s list were already problems in Corinth in the past. The members were jealous and fighting again. Paul is afraid that things won’t be much different when he arrives in Corinth for his third visit (2 Corinthians 12:20). If things aren’t different, Paul warns that he is ready to punish the Corinthians (2 Corinthians 10:6).

Paul is worried that some of the members hadn’t ­really changed. He was afraid that they continued to do evil (2 Corinthians 12:21). Their past sins included sex sins. These sins can cause separation in the church.

Paul talks about how punishment can help church members heal and come back to God (2 Corinthians 13:1–4). Being weak is no excuse for living in sin. God will give us His strength to win the fight against any sin (2 Corinthians 13:4). The sex sins in the church were proof that some members weren’t trusting in Jesus’ power. Paul wanted these sinning church members to give up their sins. Paul wanted them to come back to God. God’s love and power could give them the strength to be obedient. The last thing Paul wanted to do was to punish these church members. That’s why Paul tries to convince them to stop sinning first: “Now we pray to God that you will not do any wrong things. . . . We want you to do what is right. . . . We pray that you will become completely as you should be” (2 Corinthians 13:7–9, ERV). This prayer is very beautiful!

`Read 2 Corinthians 13:5. Paul asks the Corinthians to look at their hearts to see if they are living in the faith. What does that mean? How can you know if you are?`