---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   18/09/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Laodicean Church,” page 125, in Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, September 30, 1873.

“People accept and believe false teachings. But they don’t need to. Not when the Bible clearly teaches us what is truth. People will not be tricked or fooled if they compare their personal beliefs to the Bible. The Bible shows us if our beliefs are true or false. But some people hold on tight to their false ideas. They refuse to accept what the Bible says. Many people accept false teachings about the Bible because those ideas agree with their own personal ideas. Some people accept lies and cause other people to accept them, too. When we study the Bible, we should empty our hearts of a selfish spirit and all pride. We must give up the wish to try to find something new in the Bible that no one thought about before. We must accept that our ideas may not be correct.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels to Writers and Editors, pages 36, 37, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Read 2 Corinthians 10:1–6 again. What is Paul’s plan in these verses for fighting the spiritual “war” (EASY) for God’s truth? How can we use Paul’s plan to fight our own spiritual wars?`

`The Bible says that before Jesus comes back, many false teachers will come into the church. These false teachers will try to lead God’s people away from Bible truth. What can your local church do to protect church members from false teachers who may be in your church? Why is protecting church members from false teachings so important to our finishing God’s work on this earth?`

`Why did Paul brag about his long list of sufferings (2 Corinthians 11:16–33)? Also, what does it mean to brag about the Lord?`

`Why is it important for church members to look closely at their lives to see if they are living in the faith (2 Corinthians 13:5)? How will that help us in our walk with Jesus?`