---
title:  From the Lions’ Den to the Angel’s Den
date:   08/02/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week's lesson
Daniel 6:1–28; Genesis 37:11; 1 Samuel 18:6–9; Matthew 6:6; Acts 5:27–32.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “So the other supervisors and the governors tried to find reasons to accuse Daniel. But he went on doing the business of the government. And they could not find anything wrong with him. So they could not accuse him of doing anything wrong. Daniel was trustworthy [honest]. He was not lazy and did not cheat the king” (Daniel 6:4, ICB).

THE MEDES AND THE PERSIANS take control of Babylon. Then King Darius the Mede becomes the new king. He sees that Daniel is very wise. So, Darius gives Daniel a job in the new government. Daniel does an excellent job. So, the king makes Daniel one of the top government leaders.

But the other government leaders are very jealous of Daniel’s success. Before the story ends, Daniel shows that his heart is loyal to God and to the king. Daniel’s loyalty to God makes him someone that other people can trust.

Daniel’s experience shows us what will happen to God’s people in the end times. Daniel’s story also shows us that Satan will attack God’s people for their faith. So, we can expect hard times ahead in the war against evil. But we also can trust that good will win. God will save His people. Yes, Satan will blame God’s end-time people for the trouble on the earth. But God will show that His people are innocent. They should not be blamed for any crimes.

Daniel’s experience shows us what will happen to God’s people in the end times.
