---
title: Jealous People
date: 2/9/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Heaven was a perfect place. Even so, “Lucifer was jealous of Jesus. All the angels bowed to Jesus. They bowed down to show that Jesus was their King. Lucifer bowed with the angels too. But his heart was filled with jealousy and hate.”—Ellen G. White, The Story of Redemption, page 14, adapted. The Ten Commandments tell us not to kill or steal. They also tell us not to want things that belong to other people. Our wanting those things makes us feel jealous. A jealous heart is dangerous. It can cause us to do awful things.

`Read about people with jealous hearts in Daniel 6:1–5; Genesis 37:11; and 1 Samuel 18:6–9. What bad things happen in each of these stories?`

Daniel is an excellent leader. His skills please the king. But the other leaders feel jealous. So, they make a plan to get rid of Daniel. They try to find something that Daniel does wrong. Then they will tell the king about it. But “they could not find anything wrong with him. So they could not accuse him of doing anything wrong. Daniel was trustworthy [honest]. He was not lazy and did not cheat the king” (Daniel 6:4, ICB). Do you see the word written as “trustworthy [honest]”? This word comes from the Aramaic language. This word also can be written as “someone that other people trust.”

Daniel does nothing wrong. So, the jealous leaders cannot blame him for anything. But the leaders also see that Daniel is loyal to God and His law. That gives the leaders an idea. They come up with an evil plan to get Daniel in trouble. The leaders will get the king to pass a law. Then Daniel will be forced to choose between obeying God’s law and obeying the king’s law. The jealous leaders are very sure Daniel will choose to obey God’s law. When Daniel does, then the leaders can get rid of him. They know Daniel very well. They know Daniel will stay loyal to God. That shows us something very special about Daniel. He has a heart full of faith. He is a wonderful example to us!

“Lucifer bowed with the angels too. But his heart was filled with jealousy and hate.”
