---
title:  The Evil Plan Against Daniel
date:   10/2/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the king’s law in Daniel 6:6–9. What is the king afraid of? How do the jealous leaders use the king’s fear to convince the king to pass the law?`

The king wants to change the law as soon as he makes it. That sounds silly, right? But the king sees that he fell into a trap. The jealous leaders are smart and sneaky. They know the king is worried about his kingdom. The king has put 120 governors in charge of his new government. This plan will help the government to run better. But the plan is risky too. What if one of the governors decides to turn against the king? Then the kingdom will split up. Darius is afraid of that. So, the jealous leaders get the king to pass a law to “help” the kingdom stay strong. The law says that no one can pray to anyone except the king for 30 days. But the law is really about getting rid of Daniel. The leaders tell the king that everyone supports the law too. That is a lie. Daniel does not know about it.

The law makes the king the same as a god. For 30 days everyone must pray to the king. Then the king will offer their prayers to the gods. The king fails to see something important. He makes the law to protect his kingdom from evil. But his law is an evil plan to hurt Daniel.

Let us look at two parts of the king’s law. The 1st part is punishment. Whoever breaks the king’s law will be thrown into the lions’ den. In Bible times, kings put lions in cages. Later, the kings let the lions go free when they wanted to hunt them. So, there were plenty of hungry lions in Persia. The 2nd part of the law is power. In Esther 1:19 and Esther 8:8, we read about the “law of the Persians and Medes.” This law cannot be changed after it is made. Not even the king can change it. A history writer from Greece tells us about King Darius the 3rd. (Darius the 3rd is not the same Darius in Daniel.) Darius the 3rd punishes a man with death. Then Darius changes his mind when he learns the man is innocent. But the king cannot stop the man’s death. His law cannot be changed.

The leaders tell the king that everyone supports the law too. That is a lie. Daniel does not know about it.
