---
title:  Daniel’S Prayer
date:   11/02/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**“‘But when you pray, you should go into your room and close the door. Then pray to your Father. He is there in that private place. He can see what is done in private, and he will reward you’”** (Matthew 6:6, ERV).

`Read about Daniel’s prayer habits in Daniel 6:10. How often does Daniel pray? Why does Daniel decide to pray where everyone can see him?`

Daniel has a lot of experience as a government leader. He is loyal to the king. But his loyalty to God comes first. As God’s servant, Daniel is the only one in the kingdom who knows the real cause behind the king’s law. At first, the king does not see it. For him, the law is a chance to make his kingdom strong. But for the jealous leaders, the law is really a chance to get rid of Daniel.

Of course, there is a bigger reason for what happens between the king and Daniel. The real cause for the king’s law is the worldwide war between God and Satan. By this time (539 b.c.), God already gave Daniel the dreams in Daniel 7 (553 b.c.) and Daniel 8 (551 b.c.). So, Daniel can see that the king’s law is really part of the war between God and Satan. In Daniel 7, an angel visits Daniel. The angel shows Daniel that Jesus will save His people at the end of time. For sure, this dream gives Daniel hope and courage to pray.

So, Daniel does not change his prayer habits. He continues to pray three times a day. He looks to Jerusalem as he prays. The Persian law says no one can pray to any man or god but the king for 30 days. But Daniel does not hide his prayer life at this time. Daniel stands alone. He is the only one who stands against the king’s law. Daniel’s prayer life shows that he knows an important Bible truth. He must be loyal to God before he is loyal to the king.

`Read an important Bible rule in Acts 5:27–32. Yes, we must obey God, not people. At the same time, why must we be careful when we stand against human law?`

Daniel shows that he is loyal to God before he is loyal to the king.
