---
title: In The Lions’ Den
date: 2/12/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read what the king says to Daniel in Daniel 6:11–23. What does the king say to Daniel? How do the king’s words show us what he thinks about Daniel’s faith in God?`

The jealous leaders soon spy Daniel praying. They run to the king. Look at how nasty and mean they are: “ ‘Daniel is one of the prisoners from Judah’ ” (Daniel 6:13, NIrV). Really? Daniel is one of the top leaders in the kingdom! He is the king’s favorite too. But in the eyes of these jealous men, Daniel is nothing more than a prisoner. Do you see how these men try to turn the king against Daniel too? “ ‘He is not paying attention to the law you signed’ ” (Daniel 6:13, ERV). The jealous leaders go too far. The king now sees the evil trap they made for him with the law. The Bible tells us that King Darius “decided to save Daniel. He worked until sunset trying to think of a way to save him” (Daniel 6:14, ERV). But the king can do nothing to save Daniel from the lions. The law of the Medes and Persians cannot be changed. The king does not want to give the command to throw Daniel to the lions. But he has no choice. Before he gives the command, the king says something to Daniel that shows the hope in his heart. The king’s words are the same as a prayer: “ ‘May the God you serve all the time save you!’ ” (Daniel 6:16, ICB).

The Bible does not tell us what Daniel does in the lions’ den. For sure, he prays. God honors Daniel’s faith. He sends His angel to protect Daniel. In the morning, Daniel is not hurt. He is ready to go back to work. Ellen G. White says, “God does not stop Daniel’s enemies. They throw Daniel to the lions. God allows the evil angels and men to do their work. God lets their plan happen so that He can save Daniel in a powerful way. Then everyone will see how badly God’s enemies lose the war against Him.”—Prophets and Kings, pages 543, 544, adapted.

`Daniel’s story has a happy ending. But what about stories that do not have happy endings (read Mark 6:14–29)? How should we understand these stories?`

God sends His angel to protect Daniel.
