---
title: The King Honors God
date: 2/13/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The king praises God in Daniel 6:24–28. What does the king say about God?

Darius praises God. His praise is an important part of the story. Darius shows us that he understands that God is in control. As we saw, Nebuchadnezzar also praised God (Daniel 3:28, 29; Daniel 4:1–3, 34–37) Darius honors God the same as Nebuchadnezzar. But the king also makes a new law. He commands everyone to “‘fear [obey] and respect the God of Daniel’” (Daniel 6:26, ERV).

Yes, God works a miracle to save Daniel’s life. God rewards Daniel’s faith too. The evil men are punished. Everyone sees that God is very powerful. He controls everything. This story shows us an example of what will happen worldwide in the end times. God will save His people. God will punish evil. The Lord’s power and honor will be shown to everyone on earth and in heaven.

`Read Daniel 6:24. What problem do you see in this verse? Why is it a problem?`

The problem is the wives and children. As far as we know, they are innocent. But they get thrown to the lions along with the jealous leaders. How do we explain that? First, we need to know that Persian law says a king can punish wrongdoers. That includes their families. In Old Testament times, if one person does wrong, the whole family is responsible for the crime. Does that make this idea right? No. It just helps us to understand how things were done under Persian law. Second, we must remember that the Bible is honest. It often tells us about things it does not accept. The Bible says it is wrong to kill a child because of its parents’ sins (Deuteronomy 24:16).

The evil men are punished. This story shows us an example of what will happen worldwide in the end times. God will save His people. He will punish evil.
