---
title: Additional Thought
date: 2/14/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:**

Hebrews 11 is named “Faith’s Hall of Fame.” And for good reason. It shows us the faith and the mighty works of God’s people. Hebrews tells us that some of God’s servants “closed the mouths of lions” (Hebrews 11:33, ERV). For sure, this verse shows us Daniel. Daniel’s story is wonderful. At the same time, we must remember that not all heroes of faith escape death as Daniel does. Hebrews 11 also shows us that many people suffer and die for their faith. God asks some of His servants to witness for Him by dying for their faith. Daniel’s story does not teach us that God always will work a miracle to save everyone who is in trouble. As we said, many men and women have died because of their faith in Jesus. But Daniel’s story teaches us an important rule: God is in control of everything that happens. At the Second Coming, He will save all His children from sin and death. We will learn more about this idea in the next chapters of Daniel.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:**

`1. Jean-Paul Sartre was a famous French thinker. He said that humans try hard to be the same as God. How does Sartre’s idea help us understand why King Darius falls for the trap the jealous leaders make for him? Why must we be careful not to fall into the same trap? Why is it so dangerous? What are other ways we humans try to be the same as God?`

`2. Do people see that you are loyal to God and His law? What if someone asked the people who know you this question: “Will [your name] stay loyal to God if his or her faith will cost his or her job or even life itself?” What do you think their answer will be?`

`3. What do you see in Daniel that makes him a loyal servant of God? Why can God use him in a big way to do His work on the earth? With God’s help, how can you be the same as Daniel?`

`4. What if Daniel decided to change the way he prayed? Can you think of any reasons why Daniel should have done that? Or is that a bad idea? If yes, why?`

At the Second Coming, God will save all His children from sin and death.
