---
title:  Problems in the New Testament Church
date:   10/11/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 6:1, 2; Acts 10:1–23; Acts 11:4–18; Galatians 2:11–14; Amos 9:11, 12.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “This is because all of you who were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. You have put him on as if he were your clothes. There is no Jew or Gentile [non-Jew]. There is no slave or free person. There is no male or female. That’s [that is] because you are all one in Christ Jesus” (Galatians 3:27, 28, NIrV).

ONE OF THE MOST DIFFICULT TASKS that any church has is knowing how to keep peace in the church. That is hard to do when there are disagreements about who the church is and what the church should do. These disagreements can lead to awful problems.

Today’s churches are no different from the churches we see in the New Testament. People are people, right? Disagreements over important teachings will happen. Christians in New Testament times disagreed over what some important Old Testament stories meant. These disagreements had the power to destroy the church when it first started. But the Holy Spirit led church leaders to follow the wisdom from the Bible to solve these problems.

A few weeks ago, we studied how the New Testament church experienced peace and agreement. This week, we will look at how the New Testament church solved the problems inside the church that almost destroyed the peace in the church and the church itself. What were these disagreements about? How were they solved? What can we today learn from these experiences?