---
title:  Greek widows
date:   11/11/2018
---

`In Acts 6:1, we read about a problem in the New Testament. This problem caused people to complain that the Greek widows were getting less food than the Jewish widows. What caused the problem?` 

Some church members felt that the leaders showed a dislike for the Greek widows in the church. Why did the members think this way? Because they felt the Greek widows got less food than the Jewish widows. The Bible does not tell us if the leaders who served the food really felt this way about the Greek widows. But the Bible does say that some people in the church believed that the leaders did. Real or not, this problem had the power to destroy peace and rip the church apart very early on. How sad that this problem happened so fast in the church’s history. 

`In Acts 6:2, we read about the simple plan that the New Testament church put into action to solve this misunderstanding. What did they do to solve the problem?`

The New Testament church grew fast. This fast growth laid heavy burdens on the apostles. The apostles were the men that Jesus chose to lead the church after He went back to heaven. The apostles chose seven men to help take care of the widows. This plan lifted some of the burden from the apostles. It also gave other people in the church a chance to do work for God. How did they come up with this plan?

The apostles listened very carefully to the Greek-speaking believers. Then the apostles asked these believers what they thought should be done. The apostles asked the group to choose seven men to help serve food to the widows. So, the Greek-speaking believers chose seven men. All seven men spoke Greek. They also were “ ‘respected and . . . full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom’ ” (Acts 6:3, NLV). Before the church chose the seven men to help the apostles, the apostles had to preach the truth and give food to widows. But now part of the apostles’ work was given to the seven men. The seven men took over the work of serving food to widows. In Acts, the same Greek word is used for both the preaching that the apostles did (Acts 6:4) and the work the seven men did serving food to the widows (Acts 6:1). This same word, “diakonia,” means service. It shows us that both jobs were equal and important in God’s eyes.