---
title:  Non-Jews join the church
date:   12/11/2018
---

The book of Acts tells us the story about how the non-Jews joined the church. This story is the foundation for the biggest disagreement in the early history of the New Testament church. This disagreement had the power to destroy the life and the work of the church itself.

`In Acts 10:1–23, we see proof that the Holy Spirit was at work in the hearts of many people. The Spirit led them to open the way for non-Jews to accept the Good News about Jesus. What proof do these verses show us that the Holy Spirit was at work to make this wonderful miracle happen?`

Peter must have thought the vision he saw was very strange! He was a loyal Jew. He followed the food laws about clean and unclean foods very carefully (read Leviticus 11; Ezekiel 4:14; and Daniel 1:8). He never ate any unclean foods in his life. But let us be clear. Peter’s vision was not about food. His vision was really about the separations between Jews and non-Jews that were getting in the way of the Good News’s success. These separations were as much a part of Bible times as they are today.

When the church first started and for the next 30 years after that, Christians were mostly Jews who accepted Jesus. These Christians were loyal Jews. They obeyed the law. So, they did not understand that the Good News put an end to some Old Testament rules (read Matthew 5:17–20).

`Acts 10:28, 29, 34 and 35 tell us what Peter believed his vision meant. What caused Peter to believe this way?`

The Holy Spirit made a way for the non-Jews to join the church. Before the non-Jews joined, they did not need to be circumcised. Circumcised means the extra skin on the end of the male sex parts is cut off. But how did Peter know that God did not want the non-Jews to be circumcised first? Because God poured His Spirit on Cornelius and everyone in his house. That is the same thing God did for Jesus’ followers soon after Jesus went back to heaven (Acts 10:44–47). God gave His Spirit to non-Jews in the same way that He gave it to the Jews. So, that was proof for Peter that a non-Jew did not need to be circumcised before he joined the church. But this happening led to a big disagreement in the church.
