---
title:  The Holy Spirit leads God’s people
date:   13/11/2018
---

Stories about what happened in Caesarea with Cornelius soon reached church leaders in Jerusalem. The Jerusalem church leaders asked Peter to explain what happened with Cornelius. The church leaders were upset with Peter. The Law of Moses said that loyal Jews were not allowed to eat with Gentiles (Acts 11:3). Gentiles are non-Jews.

`In Acts 11:4–18, how does Peter explain what happened in Caesarea and the work that the Holy Spirit did there? What does Peter want the church leaders to understand?` 

Some people at the meeting had doubts about the wisdom of Peter’s behavior and his decision to baptize the Gentiles. But enough witnesses had been there that day. They saw that the Holy Spirit showed Himself in the same way as He did to Jesus’ followers shortly after Jesus went back to heaven. Nobody could say that the Holy Spirit was not leading. “When the Jewish believers heard this, they stopped arguing. They praised God and said, ‘So God is allowing the non-Jewish people also to turn to him and live’ ” (Acts 11:18, ICB).

`Acts 11:19–24 tells us about the things that happened in the New Testament church after that. What happened next?`

Maybe some believers in Jerusalem thought that what happened with Cornelius and his family was not going to happen again. But the Holy Spirit had other plans. Soon after, Stephen was put to death (Acts 8:1). Many Jewish believers got scattered. They fled Jerusalem to escape the religious attacks against them. They fled to Samaria, Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch. They shared the Good News wherever they went. Then more and more non-Jews accepted the truth, just as Jesus promised (Acts 1:8). But it is not hard to see why the first Jewish believers were worried about the non-Jews joining their church and what they should do about it. 

`Do we have “small” views or ideas about the church and God’s work? If yes, what “small’ ideas do we have? How can these “small” ideas get in the way of our witness to other people? What can we do to prevent that?`