---
title:  The Jerusalem group
date:   14/11/2018
---

`In Acts 15:1, 2 and Galatians 2:11–14, we learn about two problems that caused a lot of trouble in the church. What are these two problems?`

The New Testament church was in real danger. Some Jewish Christians thought that only Jews will be saved. They thought that every male must become Jewish first and be circumcised. You will remember that circumcised means that the extra skin on the end of the male sex parts is cut off. Loyal Jews believed it was also their duty to avoid any contact with Gentiles. Gentiles are non-Jews. 

The Jews had very strict rules against being friends with Gentiles. These man-made rules became a problem for Jewish Christians when Jesus’ followers started to share the truth with people who wanted to accept Jesus. But Jesus was a Jew, right? So, did that mean that non-Jews needed to become Jews first and follow Jewish rules to be saved? 

`In Acts 15:3–22, we read about the meeting of the Jerusalem Group. The Jerusalem Group made big decisions for the church. What were some of the problems that the Jerusalem Group met to discuss?`

The disagreements in the church were about the true meaning of certain stories in the Old Testament. The church leaders met together to discuss these stories. The talks went on for a long time with no agreement.

But then Peter, Barnabas, and Paul spoke. Peter hinted at the vision God gave him. He also told everyone that God poured the gift of His Holy Spirit on Cornelius and everyone in his house. This gift opened the way for Jesus’ believers to share the truth with the Gentiles. Next, Paul and Barnabas talked about how God used them to witness to the Gentiles. Because of their witness, many Gentiles accepted the truth. Peter said, “ ‘We believe that we and these people [the Gentiles] will be saved the same way—by the grace [mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin] of [from] the Lord Jesus’ ” (Acts 15:11, ERV). 

`Was there ever a time when you changed your mind about what you thought was true? What did that experience teach you?`