---
title:  A difficult problem is solved
date:   15/11/2018
---

Yesterday, we saw that church leaders in Antioch sent members to the Jerusalem church to ask for help. The leaders in Antioch needed to find the best way to solve the problem about non-Jews who joined the church. The leaders from both churches spent many hours discussing the problem. Then James made a decision about what the church should do (Acts 15:13–20). James was Jesus’ brother. He also seemed to be the leader of the Jerusalem Group. The Jerusalem Group made big decisions for the church. The Jerusalem Group decided that non-Jews did not need to become Jews first before they joined the church. Non-Jews also did not need to be circumcised. Remember, circumcised means that the extra skin on the end of the male sex parts is cut off. 

`In Amos 9:11, 12 and Jeremiah 12:14–16, we read the special messages from Amos and Jeremiah about non-Jews. What do these special messengers from God say will happen?`

It was God’s plan all along to save everyone on earth because of Israel’s witness. When God chose Abraham, God promised to bless all people because of Abraham and his future children (Genesis 12:1–3). God now showed His followers proof that this promise was coming true. What was the proof? The Holy Spirit clearly led God’s people. That was seen in the work for God that Peter, Barnabas, and Paul did among the non-Jews. These miracles helped church leaders in Jerusalem see that many Old Testament promises were now coming true! In the past, God gave laws to Israel to help them know the things that non-Jews should do to join Israel (Leviticus 17, 18). In James’ decision, he reminds everyone about these laws (Acts 15:29). So, it becomes clear to everyone that God led the non-Jews to join His people, accept Jesus, and be saved. God’s Spirit helped Jewish believers to understand this Bible truth. 

When the Antioch church heard this news, they were glad (Acts 15:30–35). Acts shows us a powerful example of how the New Testament church solved an awful problem with the help of the Spirit, Bible study, and a wish for peace.

`What does this story teach us about how important it is to listen to others, even when the things they say may not be what we want to hear?`