---
title:  Additional thought
date:   16/11/2018
---

Read Ellen G. White, “A Seeker [someone who searches] for Truth,” pages 131–142; “Jew and Gentile [non-Jew], pages 188–200, in The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers]. 

“The group who met together to solve the problem included the apostles and teachers. These men were strong leaders. They started the Jewish and non-Jewish churches. The group also included many leaders from different places. Leaders from Jerusalem and Antioch were there too. Leaders from churches that had the most power to reach people with the Good News were there. The leaders made all their decisions with wisdom and respect for God, who started the church. Everyone saw that God Himself was the One who gave them the answer to their problem. They saw proof of God’s answer in the fact that God poured His Holy Spirit on the non-Jews. The leaders understood that it was their duty to do what the Holy Spirit showed them was right.   

“Not every Christian was asked to come to Jerusalem and vote about what should be done. The apostles and church leaders were men who had power and the skill to judge. They ordered the leaders from the other churches to come to the meeting. For the most part, everyone came. But not everyone was happy with the church’s decision. There was a group of men who wanted power and control over the church. These men complained. They came up with new plans to stop the work of the church leaders. But God chose these leaders to teach the Good News about Jesus. From the start, many problems have tried to get in the way of the success of God’s church. That is how it has always been in the church. That is how it will always be until the end of time.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 196, 197, adapted. 

**Discussion Questions**

`1.	What important rules have you learned this week that you and other believers can use to solve problems in your church? How can following these important rules help your church to reach a peaceful agreement?`  

`2.	Read again the quotation by Ellen G. White from The Acts of the Apostles in today’s lesson study. Yes, the Jerusalem Group helped the church reach a peaceful agreement. But did you see how some members in the church were not happy with the decision? What lesson should we take away from this sad story?`