---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   10/07/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Calvary,” pages 741–757, in The Desire of Ages.

“Today, people respect the cross of Calvary. They love what Jesus did for sinners there. But in Paul’s day, people hated the cross. The cross filled them with terrible fear. So, when they heard about a Savior who died for them on a cross, they thought the idea was silly.

“Paul knew what the Jews and Greeks in Corinth would think about his message. . . . His message would make the Jews angry. The Greeks would think Paul’s message was silly and crazy. They wondered, how can the cross save anyone?

“But to Paul, the cross was the most important object in life. In the past, Paul hurt the followers of Jesus. Then Paul saw God’s love for sinners in Jesus’ death. Ever since that time, Paul always talked about what Jesus did for sinners on the cross. This new understanding of God’s love changed Paul’s life forever. . . . Paul knew from personal experience that a change happens in the heart when we understand God’s love. Then Jesus becomes everything to us.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 245, 246, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`In the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus prayed, “ ‘Father, if it is possible [if You can do it], please save me from this time of great [terrible] pain’ ” (Matthew 26:39, EASY). What does this prayer teach us about the price Jesus paid on the cross?`

`Paul says, God “is wiser than people with their clever ideas” (1 Corinthians 1:25, EASY). In what ways is God’s wisdom different from human wisdom?`

`The message about the Cross upset the Jews. The Greeks thought the message about the Cross was silly. What Bible truths do we preach today that cause people to feel and think this way? Why do you think that is so?`

`Paul says, “If someone does not believe in God, they cannot accept the message that comes from God’s Spirit” (1 Corinthians 2:14, EASY). How can we touch the hearts of these people with our words about Jesus? Or do we touch their hearts only with how we live and what we do?`