---
title: 'A Confused And Mixed-Up City'
date: 20/05/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Revelation 12:17; Revelation 18:1–4; Revelation 17:4–6; Matthew 16:18; Jeremiah 50:33–38.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘These kings will fight and make war with the Lamb [Jesus]. But the Lamb will win the war because He is Lord of lords and King of kings. His people are the called [the ones who follow Jesus] and chosen and faithful [obedient] ones’ ” (Revelation 17:14, NLV).

The book of Revelation shows us two women. These two women are word pictures for churches. The first woman wears clothes that shine as bright as the sun. The second woman wears a red dress. Together, these two women show us what happens between God’s followers and Satan’s followers in the war between good and evil.

In Revelation 12, we read about the woman who wears clothes that shine bright as the sun. Her shining clothes are a word picture for Jesus’ holy life. This woman is loyal to Jesus. Also, this woman doesn’t follow false teachings. In the Bible, an innocent woman is a word picture for Jesus’ bride. The bride is God’s loyal church. The Bible says, “ ‘O Jerusalem, you are [the same as] my beautiful and delicate [very nice] daughter’ ” (Jeremiah 6:2, NLT). Jeremiah uses the word “daughter” as a word picture for God’s people, Israel. (Also read Ephesians 5:25–32 and Hosea 2:20.)

The Bible says that a disobedient church is the same as cheating wives or husbands (James 4:4; Ezekiel 16:32).

This week, we will study the two women in Revelation.