---
title: 'Two Different Churches'
date: 21/05/2023
---

`Read Revelation 12:17 and Revelation 17:14. How do these verses talk about God’s church? What does Satan do to God’s church?`

History shows us that God always has a people who are loyal and obedient to Him. Revelation 12:17 talks about how God’s people show their faith in Him. They keep His commandments. The Bible also says that God’s people “ ‘are the called [the ones who follow Jesus] and chosen and faithful [obedient] ones’ ” (Revelation 17:14, NLV).

`Read Revelation 14:8 and Revelation 17:1, 2. What announcement in these verses does the second angel make? What did Babylon do to cause the second angel to make this announcement?`

John wrote the book of Revelation at the end of the first one hundred years after Jesus was born. By this time, the Old Testament city of Babylon already was destroyed for several hundred years. In the book of Revelation, the old-time city of Babylon is a word picture for end-time Babylon. End-time Babylon is a false religion that will be much the same as the real city of Babylon during Old Testament times. The same rules and teachings that controlled old-time Babylon will guide and control modern, spiritual Babylon.

In Revelation 17:1–6, we see a woman wearing a purple-and-red dress. The woman rides on the back of a red animal. The Bible says this woman is a “prostitute” (Revelation 17:1, ERV). A female prostitute is a woman who sells her body for sex. The prostitute is named Babylon. Babylon is a word picture for a powerful, worldwide religion. Look at what the Bible says about her: “The kings of the earth took part [followed] in her evil ways. The people living on earth were drunk [made confused] with the wine [false teachings] of [made from] her terrible sins” (Revelation 17:2, NIrV). Drunk? Never a good thing in the Bible. Sex sins or evil ways? These sins show us Babylon’s false teachings, the same as her wine does.

`Both government leaders and everyday people have been hurt by the false church named Babylon. What can protect us? (Read Ephesians 6:10–18 for the answer.)`