---
title: 'The Strong “wine” Of Her Terrible Sins'
date: 22/05/2023
---

`How powerful is Babylon? How much control does she have over kings and people living on earth? Read Revelation 17:1, 2, 15 and Revelation 18:1–4 for the answers.`

As we saw yesterday, Babylon is a word picture for a worldwide religion that is false. This false church is very powerful. Babylon tricks and controls many people with her lies and false teachings. Satan is angry because the Good News about Jesus will be announced everywhere on earth. So, Satan does everything possible to trick people, so they won’t accept the Good News about Jesus (read Revelation 14:6; Matthew 24:14; Revelation 17:2).

Revelation 17:2 announces that Babylon has sinned with the kings on the earth. What sin? She, the church, has joined together with the governments of the earth. The true church joins only with Jesus. The church of Babylon is full of sin. So, she gets her strength and might from the leaders on this earth. What does the joining between Babylon and kings show us? Babylon tries to get government leaders to make laws that make Babylon more powerful.

The Bible tells us more about Babylon: “ ‘The kings of the earth took part in her evil ways. The people living on earth were drunk with the wine of her terrible sins’ ” (Revelation 17:2, NIrV). Wine is a word picture. In the Bible, fresh grape juice shows us Jesus’ blood. On the cross, Jesus poured out His blood for our sins (Matthew 26:27–29). In Luke 22:20, Jesus says, “ ‘This cup shows the new agreement that God makes with his people. This new agreement begins with my blood which is poured out for you’ ” (ICB). The Good News is the same as fresh, new wine. Babylon’s religious leaders changed the Good News and replaced Bible truth with false teachings. That’s how the Good News about Jesus became “ ‘the strong wine of her [Babylon’s] terrible sins’ ” (Revelation 18:3, NIrV).

Look again at our verses for today. Do you see how God tells His people to come out of Babylon? That means that God has people loyal to Him who are part of this church. The time is coming when God will ask them to leave that false church before it is destroyed (Revelation 18:2).

`God has people loyal to Him who are part of Babylon. How does God use us and the Three Angels’ Messages to warn His loyal people to leave this false religion?`