---
title: 'The Big And Powerful Babylon'
date: 23/05/2023
---

`Read Revelation 17:4–6. What do these verses teach us about Babylon? As we saw already, Babylon is a word picture for a false religious power or church in the end times.`

So far, we learned that Revelation 17 warns us about the false religion or worldwide church named Babylon during the end times. From Old Testament times, Babylon mixes its many teachings with Bible truth. This mix is named her “wine.”

“If we want to understand end-time Babylon, we need to go back to the first time the Bible talks about Babylon, in Genesis. In Genesis 11, we read about a tower named Babel. This tower was built on a plain in the land of Shinar. Today, Shinar is in the south part of Mesopotamia, which is south Iraq. But in Bible times, this area was named Babylonia. The Tower of Babel was a word picture for human pride and a wish to separate from God (Genesis 11:1–4).”—Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, “The Closing of the Cosmic Conflict: Role of the Three Angels’ Messages” (from an unpublished paper), page 43, adapted.

After the Flood, the grandchildren of Noah built Babylon against God’s command. The workers built Babel to show off. They wanted everyone to praise and honor them for their mighty tower. So, God caused the builders to get confused when they talked to each other. No one understood anything that anyone said. The Bible says, “So the name of the city was Babel, because there the Lord mixed up the language of the whole earth” (Genesis 11:9, NLV).

The church of Babylon is very evil. That’s why John says, “I saw that the woman was drunk. She was drunk with the blood of God’s holy people. She was drunk with the blood of those [people] who were killed because of their faith in Jesus” (Revelation 17:6, ICB). These awful word pictures show us that Babylon is awful (read Isaiah 49:26).

So, we can see that end-time Babylon is a word picture for a worldwide religion and its false teachings. This religion fights against the Good News about Jesus and the church Jesus built. The book of Revelation shows two churches. The first church shows total trust in Jesus. This church depends on the Bible. The second church trusts in human teachers and depends on their teachings. One church depends on Jesus to save them. The other church replaces Jesus and His saving mercy with its own ideas.