---
title: 'Loyal To God'
date: 24/05/2023
---

The book of Revelation asks us to have faith in God. At times, we may doubt that God’s people will win the fight in the worldwide war between good and evil. But we must not fear. God promises us that His church will win in the end.

`Compare Matthew 16:18 and Revelation 17:14. What promise did Jesus give His followers about His church?`

Jesus is the Leader of His church. Jesus started this church while He was on earth. His church is guided by His Holy Spirit and by the Bible. But Babylon follows man-made teachings and ideas. When church leaders replace Bible truth with human ideas, their followers get confused. That’s why Babylon is a good word picture for these false teachers and their teachings. Babylon means “to make things confusing.”

In the days of old-time Babylon, church and government were not separate from each other. The people believed that the king of Babylon was a messenger for the gods who told the people what the gods wanted them to do. King Nebuchadnezzar made a law that forced everyone to bow down to his gold statue. In the same way, God’s loyal people will have the same experience when they refuse to honor the false day of rest in the end times. (Read Daniel 3.)

During the end times, the leader of a worldwide church will say he is God’s special messenger. This false church is spiritual Babylon. People will believe that the commands made by the spiritual leader of this end-time church come from God Himself. History shows us that the Roman popes announced that they replaced God on earth. In a letter written on June 20, 1894, Pope Leo the 13th said, “We believe that the pope stands in the place of God on this earth.” The Ferraris Ecclesiastical Dictionary says, “The Pope is so important and mighty that he is not just a man. He is God Himself and replaces God on this earth.” Paul’s name for the pope is the “Man of Evil.” Paul says, “The Man of Evil puts himself above anything called [named] God or anything that people worship. And that Man of Evil even [also] goes into God’s Temple and sits there. Then he says that he is God” (2 Thessalonians 2:4, ICB).

`God has loyal people in Babylon. So, why must we be careful not to judge people who are in this false church?`