---
title: 'Babylon And The Worship Of False Gods'
date: 25/05/2023
---

What other clue helps us to know who spiritual Babylon really is? The answer is the worship of false gods or statues. In old-time Babylon, statues of false gods were a big part of worship.

`Read Jeremiah 50:33–38 and Jeremiah 51:17, 47. What do these verses teach you about old-time Babylon’s worship of statues? How does God feel about the worship of false gods? What does God do about this worship?`

Jeremiah 50 and 51 talk about what will happen to Babylon in the future. The armies of the Medes and the Persians will destroy Babylon. One of the reasons that Babylon was destroyed was because its people worshiped statues. The Babylonian people believed that their gods lived in these statues in temples. If enemies destroyed the temples or the god’s statue, then the Babylonian people believed the god would stop helping them. History tells us that Prince Marduke-apla-iddina II hid in a swamp in Mesopotamia. The prince took the statues of Babylon’s gods with him. The prince hoped the statues would save him from the armies of Sennacherib, King of Assyria.

The Bible messengers compared the worship of dead statues with the God of heaven. The God of heaven is both alive and life-giving (Jeremiah 51:15, 16, 19).

`Read Exodus 20:4–6 and Psalm 115:4–8. What do these verses teach us about worshiping statues and false gods?`

Today, spiritual Babylon includes the worship of statues, just as old-time Babylon did. The Bible forbids us to bow down or worship any statue. This worship breaks the second commandment in God’s law. When we bow down to statues, we limit the Holy Spirit. Then the Holy Spirit has a hard time getting us to think about heaven. Worse, statues cause us to  fail to honor God. The worship of statues causes us to reduce God’s royal beauty and might to a lifeless statue. About three hundred years after Jesus went to heaven, church leaders started to include statues as part of their worship. The leaders thought that the statues would make Christianity more popular and attractive to non-Christians. Sad to say, people often give these statues the honor and worship that belongs only to God.