---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 26/05/2023
---

“The Second Angel’s Message in Revelation 14 announces that Babylon is destroyed. This message talks about religions and churches that were holy in the past. But now they have become evil. The Second Angel’s Message comes after the first angel’s warning about the time for God to judge all people. So, the Second Angel’s Message about Babylon can’t be about the Roman Catholic church alone. Why? Because that church has been filled with wrong teachings for many hundreds of years.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 383, adapted.

Daniel 3 is the story about the three Hebrew youths in old-time Babylon. King Nebuchadnezzar gave these three young men an order: “ ‘You must bow down and worship the gold statue’ ” (Daniel 3:5, ICB). The story in Daniel 3 shows us what will happen during the end times. End-time Babylon will make a law that will command everyone to worship a false “statue,” just as Nebuchadnezzar did in old-time Babylon. (Read Revelation 13:15; Revelation 14:9, 11; Revelation 16:2; Revelation 19:20; Revelation 20:4.) Do you see that, in the Daniel 3 story, Nebuchadnezzar tried to get the three Hebrew youths to break the second commandment? That’s the same commandment that spiritual Babylon tries to change (Daniel 7:25).

End-time Babylon also tries to change another commandment. Which one is that? The fourth commandment, of course. The Sabbath will be the final test in the end times. Will we worship the One who made the earth and the skies and everything in them and who rested on the seventh day? (Read Exodus 20:11; also read Revelation 14:7.) Or will we worship the wild animal power and his false statue? His statue is a symbol for the false day of worship, which is Sunday.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What does the Tower of Babel teach us about modern spiritual Babylon? How are they both the same?`

`We must be careful not to allow any spiritual leader to control our experience with God. So how much control should we allow church leaders to have?`

`In what ways is the worship of false gods more than just bowing down to statues? Explain.`

`How does Daniel 3 show you what will happen in the end times?`