---
title:  Honest With God
date:   10/02/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson:
Luke 16:10; Leviticus 27:30; Genesis 22:1–12; Hebrews 12:2; Luke 11:42. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “And what is the seed that fell on the good ground? That is like [the same as] those [people] who hear God’s teaching with a good, honest heart. They obey God’s teaching and patiently [by being patient] produce good fruit [works]” (Luke 8:15, ICB). 

WHAT IS AN HONEST HEART? And how is it shown? Many people today think it is OK to lie sometimes, as long as the lie is small and does not cause a lot of harm. Some people even believe that special times and places make lying the right thing to do. But the Bible does not teach this idea. 

Truth and honesty cannot be separated. But we are not born with the desire to be honest. We must learn to tell the truth. We must be honest. Then we will be good managers of God’s gifts. 

Good things happen when we are honest. Then we never need to worry about being caught in a lie or having to cover up a lie. So, honesty is an important part of the Christian life. Often, during difficult times, we feel the pressure to be dishonest. It is very easy at these times to lie. So, it is very important to be honest at all times. 

In this week’s lesson, we will study the topic of being honest with our money and paying tithe. Paying tithe is giving to God 10% of all the money we get. We will study why paying tithe to God is very important to our work as managers of everything that God trusts us with. 