---
title:  The need for personal honesty
date:   11/02/2018
---

How do you feel when someone lies to you? Do you enjoy it? Of course not! It is easy to see that people who lie have a problem. But it is hard to see this problem in ourselves. When we see it, we seem to excuse our lies or give reasons for telling lies to make our lying not seem so bad. We might say, Oh,the lie I told is not that bad.After all,it is only a small lie. It is not really important. We might fool ourselves that our lies are not that bad. But we do not fool God. 

“Many members of our church say that they believe the truth.But they are not honest in what they say and do.Their lies cause them to be lukewarm in their spiritual lives. They are not connected to Christ. And so, they are tricking their own souls.”—Ellen G. White Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 4, page 310, adapted. 

`Read Luke 16:10.What important rule does Jesus give in this verse? How should that rule help us see how important it is to be honest, even in the “ ‘little things’ ” (Luke 16:10, NLV)?` 

God knows we easily can become dishonest when it comes to the things we own. So, He gives us a powerful “cure” to help us not to be dishonest and selfish. This “cure” is paying tithe. Paying tithe means giving to God 10% of all the money we get. 

`Read Leviticus 27:30 and Malachi 3:8. What do these verses teach us? How can this truth help us stay honest?` 

“God does not ask us to pay tithe because we feel unselfish. He does not ask us to pay tithe because we feel thankful to Him, either. Instead, we give 10% of our income to Him because this action is honest. After all, the tithe belongs to the Lord. He asks us to give back to Him the money that is His own. . . . Honesty is an important rule of doing business in life. In the same way, honesty should be a part of everything we do for God.”—Ellen G. White, Education, pages 138, 139, adapted. 

`How can paying tithe help you remember who really owns all that you have? Why is it important never to forget who owns all that belongs to us?`