---
title:  The life of faith
date:   12/02/2018
---

`Read the story in Genesis 22:1–12. What does this story tell us about how strong Abraham’s faith was?` 

The life of faith does not come from taking a stand for what we believe just one time. We do not prove we are loyal by sharing our faith in a powerful way only one time either. 

Christians continue to be amazed by Abraham’s act of faith with Isaac on Mount Moriah (Genesis 22). But Abraham did not show faith only that one time in his life. No, Abraham lived a life of faith and obedience before his act of faith on Mount Moriah. (Most of the time, that is!) Abraham’s faith made it possible for him to do what he did on Mount Moriah. But what would have happened if Abraham had decided not to be loyal to God before God asked him to give up his son on Mount Moriah? Then Abraham never would have passed that test. But Abraham passed the test because he was a man of faith. Abraham also lived a life of faith after God proved Abraham’s loyalty on Mount Moriah. 

What lesson does Abraham’s story teach us as God’s managers? We learn that we do not show our faith only one time, either. Over time, our faith will grow deeper and stronger. Or it will grow weaker. Everything depends on how we build on the faith we have. 

`Read Hebrews 12:2.What does this verse tell us about where our faith comes from and how to have this faith?` 

We must be loyal managers of everything God gives us. The only way to do that is to “look only to Jesus. He is the one who began our faith, and he makes our faith perfect. Jesus suffered death on the cross. But he accepted the shame of the cross as if it were nothing. He did this because of the joy that God put before him. And now he is sitting at the right side of God’s throne” (Hebrews 12:2, ICB). The wording “makes our faith perfect” is used only in this one verse in the New Testament. This wording also can be written this way: “the One [Jesus] who makes us perfect.” That means that Jesus wants to help our faith to grow and become perfect and complete (Hebrews 6:1, 2). So, we must live the life of faith. Then we will grow stronger. 

`How has your faith grown and become stronger over time? Or maybe you feel your faith is weak.Why is it weak?`