---
title:  Showing our faith
date:   13/02/2018
---

Yesterday, we learned that faith is an experience that continues to grow. Jesus helps our faith grow stronger and become complete. One way God “makes our faith perfect” (Hebrews 12:2, ICB) is by asking us to pay tithe. Paying tithe is giving to God 10% of all the money we get. We must understand how to pay tithe in the right way. Paying tithe is not about buying our way into heaven. Not at all! Instead, paying tithe is how we show our faith. Paying tithe shows what we believe in our hearts. 

Anyone can say he or she has faith and believes in God and in Jesus. But we know that “the demons believe that, too!” (James 2:19, ICB). But faith is more than what we believe. Faith is what we do. So, we show our faith when we take 10% of our paychecks and give it back to God. 

`Read Luke 11:42. Why did Jesus say we must remember to pay tithe? How does paying tithe show that we are fair to others and that we love God?` 

Paying tithe shows we depend on God. Paying tithe also shows we trust in Jesus to save us. And paying tithe shows we believe that “God has given us every spiritual blessing [gift] in heaven” (Ephesians 1:3, ICB). Giving back tithe shows that we believe in God’s promise to give us more. 

`Read Genesis 28:14–22. As these verses show us, God made Jacob a promise. How did Jacob answer?` 

“God made the plan of paying tithe. It is a beautiful and simple plan. Everyone can follow it with faith and courage, because it comes from God. This plan combines what is simple with what is useful. We do not need to have special knowledge to understand the plan and follow it. Everyone can take part in the precious work of saving souls. Every man, woman, and youth may become a manager of money for the Lord. Each person can be a helper in meeting the needs of the church for money to do God’s work.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels [Advice] on Stewardship [Managing the gifts God gives us], page 73, adapted. 

`Have you experienced the rewards of paying tithe? If yes, how? How has paying tithe helped your faith to grow?`