---
title:  "Holy to the Lord"
date:   14/02/2018
---

God asks us to give Him tithe.Tithe is 10% of all the money we get. But how do we give God what He already owns? 

`Read Leviticus 27:30. What two important ideas about paying tithe are found in this verse?` 

“Tithe belongs to the Lord. So, it is holy. Tithe does not become holy because we promise to give it to God. Tithe does not become holy when we give it to Him, either. Instead, tithe is holy because it already belongs to the Lord. No one but God has a right to the tithe. No one can make tithe holy by giving it to the Lord. Why? Because tithe was never ours to begin with.”—Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, Stewardship [Managing the gifts God gives us] Roots [the cause of or reason for] (Silver Spring, MD: Stewardship Ministries Department, 1994), page 52, adapted. 

We do not make tithe holy. God does. Only He has that power. We are only His managers. Our duty is to give back to God what belongs to Him. We give tithe to God for a special work. Using the tithe for any other reason is not honest. Paying tithe is something we always should do. 

`In Hebrews 7:2–10, Paul says Abraham gave tithe to Melchizedek. How does Abraham show the true reason for paying tithe? To whom was Abraham really giving his tithe?` 

Both the Sabbath and tithe are holy. The word “holy” means something that is “to be used only for God.” Both the Sabbath and tithe belong to God. 

“God made the seventh day holy. He separated the Sabbath from other days. The Sabbath is as holy today as it was when God first rested on it after making the earth. 

“A tithe must be separated from what we earn. Indeed, it is ‘holy to the Lord.’ The New Testament does not explain why we should pay tithe or honor the Sabbath. The reasons for doing both are clear. . . . We give to God the time He separated as His own. And we give back to Him that part of the money we earn that belongs to Him.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels [Advice] on Stewardship [Taking care of God’s gifts to us], page 66, adapted. 

`How can you always remember that your tithe is “holy”?`