---
title:  Giving to God leads to new life in Jesus
date:   15/02/2018
---

Hezekiah was a king of Judah. He ruled for a very long time. God blessed His people a lot during this time. In fact, the last time God blessed His people this much was during the time that David and Solomon ruled over all Israel. In 2 Chronicles29–31, we read a story about Hezekiah.The story tells us about a special time of spiritual growth in Hezekiah’s kingdom. “Hezekiah did what was right in the eyes of the Lord” (2 Chronicles 29:2, NLV). Also, during this time worship in “the LORD’s temple was started up again” (2 Chronicles 29:35, NIrV; read also 2 Chronicles 30:5). “So there was great joy in Jerusalem” (2 Chronicles 30:26, NLV).Statues of false gods and their altars were destroyed (2 Chronicles 31:1). New spiritual life woke up in the hearts and minds of the people. It caused them to give many gifts to God and to bring Him their tithes. Tithe is 10% of all the money a person gets. 

`In Nehemiah 9:2, 3, Nehemiah gives another example of the connection between a new spiritual life and giving tithe. As these verses show us, what did the new spiritual life mean? Now read Nehemiah 13 about how Nehemiah changed things for the better. He improved the temple of God (Nehemiah 13:4–9). Afterward, what did the people of Judah bring there? (Read Nehemiah 13:12 for the answer.)` 

“New life in Jesus and improving our spiritual lives are two different things. New life in Jesus shows we have a new spiritual life. New life in Jesus means the powers of our minds and hearts are given new life. New life in Jesus also means coming back to life from spiritual death. But improving our spiritual lives means a change in ideas and beliefs and a change in everything we do and in how we act.”—Ellen G. White, Christian Service, page 42, adapted. 

There is a connection between a new spiritual life and paying tithe. What happens if we do not pay tithe? Then our experience of a new spiritual life becomes lukewarm. Our spiritual lives also will have no power. But God gives us new spiritual lives and improves the way we live. These changes are really His way of asking us to make a promise to change. Paying tithe is part of that promise. So, we cannot hold back from God our tithe. If we do, we cannot expect Him to give us the things we ask from Him. 