---
title:  Additional thought
date:   16/02/2018
---

God led in all the agreements with His people. He also took the lead in bringing His people into these agreements (Hebrews 8:10). God’s Old and New Agreements include many promises. These promises show His loving-favor, mercy, and His desire to save us. 

An agreement with God includes many things. It includes: (1) God; (2) those (God’s people) who accept the agreement with God; (3) the rules of the agreement; (4) the accepting of the agreement by God and His people; (5) punishments for breaking the agreement; and (6) the many ways that God will bless His people when they honor His agreement with them. 

In Malachi 3:9, 10, we find all six parts of an agreement in the teaching of paying tithe. Paying tithe is giving back to God 10% of all the money we get. Also, Malachi 3:9, 10 tells us again the special ways that God will bless His people for paying tithe. Paying tithe to God shows our faith in God. It shows we refuse to make riches the most important thing in our lives. Paying tithe also proves that something good can come from the heart of a sinner that God has made new. 

“A selfish spirit stops men from giving back to God the gifts of money that belong to Him. God made a special agreement with men. He promised what He would do if they agreed always to give back to Him 10% of all the money they got.This money is meant to build up Jesus’ kingdom. What happens when God’s people separate this tithe money for Him from all the money they earn? Then God promises to bless them in a powerful way. He will give them so much that there will not be room for His gifts. But what if men hold back from God what belongs to Him? Then the Lord says clearly, ‘A curse is on you because the whole nation has robbed me’ [Malachi 3:9, ICB].”—Ellen G. White, Counsels [Advice] on Stewardship [Taking care of the gifts God gives us], page 77, adapted. 

**Discussion questions** 

`1 Why is paying our tithe an important part of our faith?` 

`2 What advice would you have for someone who says, “I cannot afford to pay tithe?” What could you do to help this person?` 

`3 Tithe is holy. How does this fact change the way you feel and think about paying it?` 