---
title:  Misplaced Zeal
date:  27/07/2019
---

**Introduction**: Isa. 58:2–7

It’s pretty easy to make the argument that our spiritual well-being stems from our relationship with God. After all, if God is the source of our salvation, shouldn’t seeking after Him, in heart and deed, be our primary concern? If you’re following this thought, you might understand how confused the Israelites would have been by Isaiah’s condemnation of their efforts to draw nearer to God. In short order, he condemned their seeking after God (Isa. 58:2), their delight in knowing His ways (verse 2), their fasting (verse 3), and the afflicting of their souls (verse 3). Weren’t they doing everything possible to draw nearer to God? How could that possibly be abhorrent to Him?

As it turns out, the answer is that while they had been making haste to draw near to God, they had been neglecting the needs of the poor and helpless (verses 6, 7). While they may have considered this to be irrelevant to their spiritual condition, God saw things very differently.

For instance, in Amos 5:12 and Isaiah 59:12, God declares injustice toward others to be “transgression” and “sin” in His eyes. Furthermore, in Ezekiel 16, He lists an unwillingness to “strengthen the hand of the poor and needy” (verse 49) as one of the great sins of Sodom (cf. Genesis 19).

But why such a focus on our relationships with others? Aren’t such emphases ultimately secondary to our spiritual relationship with God? If our primary spiritual “task” is to love God with all our heart, soul, and might (Deut. 6:5), why should we concern ourselves with the temporal needs of others?

Herein lies the great caveat: God’s character, the source of all His thoughts and actions, is centered on a selfless love for others (cf. 1 John 4:8, 10)—a love that all those who seek to follow Him are called to emulate (cf. Phil. 2:5–8) by loving their neighbor (whether they be white, black, gay, straight, homeless, immigrant, disabled, or addicted) as themselves (Lev. 19:18).

There could be, therefore, no clearer illustration of spiritual hypocrisy than the Christian who claims to follow God with all his heart, soul, and strength but who simultaneously neglects to love his neighbor as himself, instead selfishly turning his back on the needs of those around him.

Thus, we recognize that God’s grievance with Israel was not over their religious zeal but over their hypocrisy. He saw a people who claimed to love God with all their hearts while their actions demonstrated that His love was all but absent from their hearts. As you study this week, I invite you to explore the depths of your own heart for hypocrisy and surrender it to the only One who can cleanse from every defilement.

---

_Seth D. Roberts, Walla Walla, Washington, USA_