---
title:  "God’s Mission: Heaven in Our Hearts"
date:  29/07/2019
---

**Testimony**: John 15:12

In reference to Isaiah 58:6, 7 and our part in helping those in need, Ellen White writes, “Here is set forth the very spirit and character of the work of Christ. His whole life was a sacrifice of Himself for the saving of the world. Whether fasting in the wilderness of temptation or eating with the publicans at Matthew’s feast, He was giving His life for the redemption of the lost. Not in idle mourning, in mere bodily humiliation and multitudinous sacrifices, is the true spirit of devotion manifested, but it is shown in the surrender of self in willing service to God and man.”1

“In God’s great plan for the redemption of a lost race, He has placed Himself under the necessity of using human agencies as His helping hand. He must have a helping hand, in order to reach humanity. He must have the cooperation of those who will be active, quick to see opportunities, quick to discern what must be done for their fellow men.”2

“When the cases of all come in review before God, the question, What did they profess? is never asked, but, What have they done? Have they been doers of the word? Have they lived for themselves? or have they been exercised in works of benevolence, in deeds of kindness, in love, preferring others before themselves, and denying themselves that they might bless others? If the record shows that this has been their life, that their characters have been marked with tenderness, self-denial, and benevolence, they will receive the blessed assurance and benediction from Christ, ‘Well done.’ ”3

“ ‘Love one another, as I have loved you’ (John 15:12); when we love the world as He has loved it, then for us His mission is accomplished. We are fitted for heaven; for we have heaven in our hearts.”4

**React**

`1. How can we experience a shift from serving others because we believe it is expected of us to where we want to be a blessing to those in need?`

`2. What can you do this week either to begin or to continue growing your experience blessing others through service?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 278.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, bk. 1, p. 99.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, “The Sin of Selfishness,” The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, July 13, 1886.</sup>

<sup>4. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 641.</sup>

_Eric Louw, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_