---
title:  A Vengeful God
date:  30/07/2019
---

**Evidence**: Psalm 94

Most people don’t like the idea of a vengeful God. Fear of a recklessly angry god is the stuff that made sailors of old tremble and shake with the possibility of being destroyed on the open waves of the ocean. Some, to this day, have images of a powerful old man with lightning bolts ready to go in case those he is interested in decide to go against his decrees. Psalm 103:8 describes a gentle, merciful God, and His love is certainly for and to everyone. This is especially true for those who have been dispossessed of their homes, have received injustice, or have no other support.

On the other hand, in Psalm 94, the psalmist echoes the concerns that many express at news of the numerous atrocities done to the weak: “Where is He?” “When will He show up?” “Why is He so silent?” We might be tempted to cry out in frustration with the scoffers, “ ‘The Lord does not see; the God of Jacob takes no notice’ ” (Ps. 94:7, NIV). But God does see.

This world is full of hurting people who are hurting people. God’s grace is for everyone. Ultimately, God has given His church to bring justice to those who are oppressed. “And let us consider how we may spur one another on toward love and good deeds” (Heb. 10:24, 25, NIV).

Those experiencing incredible pain and need are often closer than you think. I recently had the opportunity to lead a group of students to reach out to Syrian refugees in central California. The students were shocked at how close the refugees lived to their school and homes! God’s people ought to seek out the hurting, not wait for the hurting to find them (Luke 15:3–7). Many of us aren’t opposed to this idea, but we lack the knowledge of how to find or recognize them. While we have a special calling, message, and identity that should not be compromised, we can still befriend those of other faiths. Look for imams, Buddhist priests, and pastors and ask whether they have members who are in need of tangible love through action. Then share our Adventist message of love with the entire community through your service.

**React**

`1. What does God’s law have to do with justice for orphans and widows (cf. Psalm 94:12)?`

`2. How could the church seek justice for the oppressed and yet continue to uphold the separation of church and state?`

---

_Samuel Smith, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_