---
title:  The Great Physician’s Approach
date:  31/07/2019
---

**How-to**: Deut. 15:11

We have been learning that it is our God-given responsibility to help others. In fact, to neglect those we are privileged to reach is considered sinful in the eyes of God. You might recall the parable of the rich man and Lazarus (Luke 16:19–31). God’s people, represented by the rich man, ignored their role as ministers to the needy represented by the character Lazarus. In the parable, as a result of his negligence and after both characters died, the rich man found himself to be lost, while Lazarus was saved.

Helping others in need may not come as an easy task. When we think about Jesus’ ministry, helping others seemed to come easily for Him. He selflessly served anyone who could benefit. We call Him the Great Physician—a title worth keeping in mind as we ponder practical ways to reach those in need. As the greatest Physician of all time, Jesus Christ did the following: Served out of love. It is easy for us to obey God out of fear of either missing out on salvation or displeasing Him. But that certainly is not God’s intention in sharing the parable or reminding us to help others. Paul tells us that love should motivate all that we do (1 Cor. 13:1–3). We need to first ask God, the source of love, for a heart to love others (Rom. 5:5). Possessing a love for souls not only makes our service acceptable but makes it much easier too.

Diagnosed the problem. Any wise and professional doctor will assess the patient’s problem carefully before giving the appropriate diagnosis. Who would want to be treated by a doctor who prescribes via guesswork? Nobody. Therefore, it is important to make use of our ears and listen to others when they speak so that we can become aware of their needs (Prov. 18:13).

Prayed for wisdom and power. Jesus exemplified the importance of prayer before service (Mark 1:32–35). Each day, before reaching out to the multitudes of needy people, He prayed for divine wisdom and power, and we should pray for that too (Acts 1:8; 2:1–4; James 1:5).

Obeyed. After praying, it would be good to listen to God’s instructions for service and to obey. When we adhere to the voice of truth, the Holy Spirit can work through us powerfully for the good of those in need (Acts 5:32).

**React**

`1. Who is the Lazarus in your life?`

`2. What steps would you add in the four practical steps listed above?`

`3. What motivates you to help the needy?`

---

_Kurt Osena, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_