---
title:  It’s Time to Act!
date:  01/08/2019
---

**Opinion**: Isa. 42:1–7; 53:4–6; Phil. 2:13

What would a prophet of God warn us about today? What can replace our allegiance to God in 2019? How are the poor and helpless oppressed in these “enlightened” and “scientific” times? Ask the impoverished: they know that oppression still happens today. Even though we are educated through secular programming to live moral lives and work for the common good, greed and corruption still infect every level of business, politics, and even—gasp!—religion.

Knowing what is right and what is wrong is not enough. The fruit from the tree of knowledge of good and evil is not sufficient for an abundant life. As digital natives, we are used to being bombarded by information; we are given but a couple of seconds to dwell on some righteous thought before the next bright and exciting topic flashes on our screen. That overload of emotional responses without action programs us into apathy. Perhaps if a prophet spoke up today, no one would respond amid the clamor of billions of other voices.

The Bible texts in this week’s lesson call for action. Micah 6:8 calls us to do justly, to love mercy, to walk humbly with our God. To fulfill that call requires more than social meetings and feel-good rallies; we must be a catalyst for change in the workplace and in our homes. Our church has a long history of social activism, birthed from our value of all life being created and redeemed by God, our emphasis on wholistic and not just religious health, and our urgency from living at the end of this world’s history. How can we continue that legacy?

As with every dilemma, the solution the Bible gives to overcoming inaction and injustice is Jesus. Throughout his book, Isaiah gives credit to the Messiah for rescuing the oppressed. Jesus breaks the slavery of sin at the cross, He atones all injustice with judgment, and He can use you today to relieve the downtrodden. He can get you off your bed and out of your dorm room or apartment to make those friendships. Just ask Him, and He will make it happen. Do not put Jesus on a to-do list. Act now.

**React**

`1. What small but significant changes should be made right now in your prayer life and social activities to better reflect the compassion of Jesus?`

`2. What ongoing outreach could you start in your Sabbath School group?`

---

_Justin Dane Spady, Portage, Wisconsin, USA_