---
title:  Danger From The North 
date:  10/01/2021
---

`What scary experience does Ahaz have while he is king? For the answer, read 2 Kings 15:37, 38; 2 Kings 16:5, 6; Isaiah 7:1, 2.`

The kingdoms of northern Israel (also named Ephraim) and Syria (also named Aram) fight against the smaller country of Judah in the south. Judah is weak from attacks by the Edomites and Philistines. In the past, Judah fought against Israel. But now that Israel joins with Syria, Judah will be in big trouble. Bible experts believe that Israel and Syria want to force Judah to join them to fight against the mighty king of Assyria. Assyria’s king is Tiglath-pileser the Third (named “Pul” in 2 Kings 15:19). Tiglath-pileser’s kingdom keeps growing. His power is a threat to Syria and Israel. So, Israel and Syria put away their disagreements with each other. For many years, the two countries fight each other. But now, they join together. If they can beat Judah, then they can put a “puppet” king on the throne (Isaiah 7:5, 6), a king they can control.

`What is Ahaz’s answer to the problem when everything falls apart around him? For the answer, read 2 Kings 16:7–9 and 2 Chronicles 28:16.`

Ahaz does not trust that God is the only Friend who can save his country. Ahaz tries to make Tiglath-pileser the Third his friend. Tiglath-pileser is the enemy of Ahaz’s enemies. So, Tiglath-pileser is happy to help Judah against Syria and Israel. Ahaz gives Tiglath-pileser a large bribe, or gift of money, for his help. This gives Tiglath-pileser the perfect excuse to take over Syria, which he does (2 Kings 16:9). The friendship between Ahaz and Tiglath-pileser breaks Israel’s partnership with Syria. So, it looks as if Ahaz saves Judah.

We should not be surprised by what Ahaz does here. He is one of the worst kings ever to sit on Judah’s throne. (Read 2 Kings 16:3, 4; 2 Chronicles 28:2–4).

`When we read about Ahaz, we can see why he solves his country’s problem the way he does. What personal lesson is here for us? If we’re not obeying the Lord now, what makes us think we’ll have the faith to trust Him when bad things happen? (Read James 2:22 and Jeremiah 12:5.)`