---
title:  Isaiah Goes To Meet The King 
date:  11/01/2021
---

While Ahaz comes up with a plan to save Judah, God knows some things that Ahaz doesn’t. For one thing, God is the One who lets the trouble happen. Why? God wants to help Ahaz to see his mistakes and turn to Him (2 Chronicles 28:5, 19). Also, God knows that if Ahaz accepts help from Assyria, it will be a bad thing. Then Judah will be under the control of a foreign power. Judah will never be the same again. So, God sends Isaiah to meet the king, who is on his way to check on the city’s water. Isaiah’s job is to convince the king not to contact the Assyrian leader.

`Why does the Lord tell Isaiah to take his son, Shear-jashub, with him (Isaiah 7:3)?`

Of course, Ahaz must be surprised when Isaiah greets him and introduces his son, whose name means “A Remnant Shall Come Back.” A remnant is a small group that is removed from a larger group. The boy’s name will raise many questions in the king’s mind. Who is this remnant? Where shall they come back from? The boy’s father is a prophet, or special messenger. So, maybe his name is a warning from God that the Jews will become slaves. Or maybe the boy’s name shows that God’s people must turn back to Him. (The verb “come back” also can mean turning back to God.) The message from God to Ahaz is: The name Shear-jashub means what you make it mean. Turn from your sins, or your enemies will carry you away to their country. From there, a small group of Jews will come back to Judah. The choice is yours!

`How well does God’s message meet the king’s needs? For the answer, read Isaiah 7:4–9.`

The danger from Syria and Israel will pass. Powers that look the same as big, scary volcanoes to Ahaz are nothing in God’s eyes. They are the same as “ ‘two burning sticks’ ” (Isaiah 7:4, ERV). There is no need for Ahaz to ask Assyria for help. But if Ahaz wants to make the right decision, he needs to trust the Lord and His promises. Then Ahaz “will stand” strong (Isaiah 7:9, NIrV). The words for “believe” and “stand” come from the same Hebrew word that also comes from the word for “truth” and “Amen.” When we say Amen, we are saying that we trust in God. So, Ahaz needs to trust in God. Then he will stand strong.