---
title:  Another Chance 
date:  12/01/2021
---

Ahaz turns away from Isaiah’s invitation to trust in God. God is full of mercy. He gives Ahaz another chance. God tells Ahaz to ask Him for a miracle or sign. “ ‘The sign can come from a place as deep as Sheol [the grave] or as high as the skies’” (Isaiah 7:11, ERV). Here is one of the biggest invitations to believe that God ever gave to a human. God puts no limits on the sign. God does not limit His offer to the half of His kingdom, as human kings do in Bible times. That is the most that human kings ever offer (read Esther 5:6; Esther 7:2; and Mark 6:23). God is ready to empty all of heaven and earth for an evil king if only he will believe! As a sign, Ahaz can ask for God to give him a lot of gold. Or he can ask for as many soldiers as there are specks of sand by the Mediterranean Sea.

`Why does Ahaz answer the way he does? For the answer, read Isaiah 7:12.`

When we first read it, Ahaz’s answer looks holy and filled with respect for God. Ahaz will not put God to the test, as the Israelites do many hundreds of years ago in the desert (Exodus 17:2; Deuteronomy 6:16). What is different then? God invites Ahaz to put Him to the test (compare Malachi 3:10). God does not do that for the Israelites in the desert. So, if Ahaz accepts this wonderful gift, God will be pleased. It will not wear God out or upset Him. But Ahaz does not want God to help him believe. Ahaz shuts faith out of his heart.

`Read Isaiah 7:13. What is Isaiah saying in this verse?`

Isaiah tells Ahaz that he is making God tired and weary by refusing to put God to the test. The worst part is that Isaiah says that God is “my God,” (Isaiah 7:13, KJV) but not the king’s. That is very different from Isaiah 7:11, just two verses earlier. In verse 11, Isaiah asks the king to ask for a sign from the Lord “your God.” Why the change? When Ahaz refuses God’s offer, he rejects the Lord as his God. This shows that the Lord is the God of Isaiah, and not of Ahaz.

`What does our study today teach us about how patient God is with us?`