---
title:  The Sign Of A Son 
date:  13/01/2021
---

God’s offers to give Ahaz a sign that “ ‘can come from a place as deep as Sheol [the grave] or as high as the skies’” (Isaiah 7:11, ERV). But Ahaz doesn’t accept God’s offer. So, God comes up with a sign (Isaiah 7:14). We can expect this sign to be wonderful beyond anything we can ever think of (compare Isaiah 55:9; 1 Corinthians 2:9).

Surprise! The sign is a son. But how can a young woman having a baby and naming him “Immanuel” be a big sign?

`Who is the woman? Who is her Child?`

The Bible does not say that this sign or promise ever happens in Old Testament times. The other signs that God gives in the Old Testament all come true in Old Testament times. One example is the sign Gideon asks for (Judges 6:36–40). So, let us look at some possible guesses for when this promise may have happened in Old Testament times:

1. The word for “young woman” in the Old Testament means a young woman who is old enough to be married. So, many Bible thinkers believe that this young woman is a married woman living in Jerusalem. Maybe she is the wife of Isaiah. She is named the “woman prophet [special messenger from God].” But her son’s name is Maher-shalal-hash-baz (Isaiah 8:1-4), not Immanuel.

2. Some Bible thinkers believe that Immanuel is Hezekiah, Ahaz’s son. Hezekiah becomes king after Ahaz. But the Bible never uses the name Immanuel for Hezekiah.

3. Immanuel is a bit of a mystery. His name means “God with us.” It shows us that God will be with His people. So, this tells us that Immanuel may be the same person as the special Son talked about in Isaiah 9 and 11. If so, what Isaiah says about him in Isaiah 11:10 goes far beyond anything the Bible ever says about good King Hezekiah.

4. An unmarried woman who chooses to have a child outside of marriage has sinned (Deuteronomy 22:20, 21). How can she, then, be a sign to fill people with faith?

The New Testament tells us that Jesus is Immanuel (Matthew 1:21–23). His birth is a miracle. His mother is everything Isaiah talked about. Maybe a real person named Immanuel lived in King Ahaz’s day who is a symbol of the future Savior. We don’t know. But what we do know is that “when the right time came, God sent his Son, who was born from a woman” (Galatians 4:4, ERV). This is Jesus, or God with us.