---
title:  “god Is With Us”! 
date:  14/01/2021
---

Isaiah’s sons are named Shear-jashub and Maher-shalal-hash-baz. These names have special meaning. Shear-jashub, as we saw, means “a small group of people shall come back.” Maher-shalal-hash-baz shows that soon Damascus and Samaria will be robbed by the King of Assyria. In the same way, Immanuel has meaning. The exact meaning is “with us God.” But most Bibles write it as “God with us.” This wording misses

Do you see that the meaning of Immanuel is missing a verb? That is because many Hebrew names do not include the “to be” verb. We must put it in because it is not written in Hebrew. So, the name Immanuel must be written as “God is with us” (compare the same words in Isaiah 8:10). In the same way, the Greek name “Jesus” (which is short for the Hebrew Joshua) means “The Lord is the One who saves me.” Again, we need to add the verb again (compare the name Isaiah, which means “God’s saving plan.”)

But the name “Immanuel” is not just an idea. It is also a promise that happens right now: “God is with us”!

`God is with us. What does this promise mean?`

This is the strongest message of comfort that God can ever give us. God doesn’t promise that we will not suffer pain and hard times. But God promises to be with us when we do. The psalmist says: “Even if I walk though [in] a valley as dark as the grave, I will not be afraid of any danger, because you are with me” (Psalm 23:4, ERV).

“Where is the Lord when the Babylonians throw Daniel’s three friends into the fire? With them (Daniel 3:23–25). Where is the Lord when Jacob fights all night with the Stranger? In Jacob’s arms, as close as He can get (Genesis 32:24–30).

“When the Lord comes to help us, He often doesn’t come in a body that we can see. But He’s there believing His people. He shares their experiences. Where is the Lord when the angry crowd accuses Stephen? He is ‘standing at God’s right side’ (Acts 7:55, ERV). But when Jesus goes back to heaven after waking up from the dead, He “sat down at the right side of God” (Hebrews 1:3, ERV). Why does Jesus stand when Stephen is in trouble and about to be killed with stones? Because Jesus isn’t going to take that sitting down!”—Roy Gane, God’s Faulty Heroes (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 1996), page 66, adapted.