---
title:  Further Thought
date:  15/01/2021
---

“ ‘She will have a son, and she will name him Immanuel’  [Isaiah 7:14, ICB]. God’s ‘light gives us the light to know God’s glory. His glory is shown in the face of Christ [Jesus]’ (2 Corinthians 4:6, NIrV). Before time started, the Lord Jesus Christ was one with the Father. ‘Christ is the one who is exactly like [the same as] God’ [2 Corinthians 4:4, ERV]. Jesus shows God’s power and royal glory to us. Jesus came to this earth when it was made dark with sin. He came to show us the light of God’s love. He came to be ‘God with us.’ That is why Isaiah said that ‘he will be called [named] Immanuel’ [Isaiah 7:14, NIrV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 19, adapted.

“If Ahaz accepted this message from heaven, things would have been better for the kingdom of Judah. But Ahaz chose to trust in human help. He asked for help from people who worshiped false gods. Ahaz lost all hope. That caused him to do something very foolish. He sent a message to Tiglath-pileser, the king of Assyria: ‘ “I am your servant. I am like [the same as] a son to you. Come and save me from the king of Aram [Syria] and the king of Israel. They have come to fight me” ’ [2 Kings 16:7, ERV]. Ahaz also sent the King of Assyria an expensive present from his treasure house and from the storehouse in God’s temple.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 329, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What if you need to make a big decision? When is it right to ask God for a sign? What are the dangers of doing that?`

`It is good to have human help. But how do you understand that human help has limits?`

`Russian writer Leo Tolstoy wrote to a friend: “when a man understands that everything ends in death, then nothing is worse than life.” How does our knowledge that “God is with us” answer Tolstoy?`

**Summary**: King Ahaz has no faith in God. God puts King Ahaz in a tough spot so that he must make a difficult decision: to believe or not believe in God. The Lord offers Ahaz any sign that his mind can think of. God does this to help Ahaz have faith. But Ahaz refuses to let God show him why he should believe. In the end, Ahaz chooses as his “friend” the king of Assyria.