---
title:  Preparing for Change
date:  13/04/2019
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Cor. 10:1–13, Gen. 2:24, 1 Cor. 13:4–8, 1 Sam. 1:27, Psalm 71, 1 Cor. 15:24–26.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Righteousness will go before Him, and shall make His footsteps our pathway” (Psalm 85:13, NKJV).

Life is full of changes. Things change all the time. The only thing that does not change is the reality of change itself. Change, in fact, is a part of our very existence. Even the laws of physics seem to teach that change exists in the most basic fabric of reality.

Often, changes come unexpectedly. We are going along in a routine when, suddenly, instantly, everything changes, and we are caught completely off guard.

On the other hand, sometimes we can see changes coming. We are given forewarnings, signs, and indicators that let us know things are going to be different. When this happens, it’s wise to start preparing, to whatever degree possible, for what we can see coming. Many of these changes are big: marriage, children, old age, and even death.

And yes, we do not live in isolation. Which means, then, that the changes that come to us can impact our families, and in big ways, as well. At the same time, changes in our families also can impact each family member, too.

This week, let’s look at some of the changes that sooner or later, in one way or another, most of us face and how these changes can impact family life.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, April 20._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It is the righteousness of Christ that goes before us. It is His character that we are to copy. And then what?—The glory of the Lord shall be our rearward. Our Leader goes before us, and as we follow Him, He imparts to us His righteousness, which is revealed in our lives by a well-ordered life and a godly conversation. It is faith and works that makes us Christians, preparing us to sit together in heavenly places with Christ.—_This Day With God_, p. 262.

A life of monotony is not the most conducive to spiritual growth. Some can reach the highest standard of spirituality only through a change in the regular order of things. When in His providence God sees that changes are essential for the success of the character-building, He disturbs the smooth current of the life. He sees that a worker needs to be more closely associated with Him; and to bring this about, He separates him from friends and acquaintances. When He was preparing Elijah for translation, God moved him from place to place, that the prophet might not settle down at ease, and thus fail of gaining spiritual power.—_Gospel Workers_, pp. 269, 270. 

The Father’s presence encircled Christ, and nothing befell Him but that which infinite love permitted for the blessing of the world. Here was His source of comfort, and it is for us. He who is imbued with the Spirit of Christ abides in Christ. Whatever comes to him comes from the Saviour, who surrounds him with His presence. Nothing can touch him except by the Lord’s permission. All our sufferings and sorrows, all our temptations and trials, all our sadness and griefs, all our persecutions and privations, in short, all things work together for our good. All experiences and circumstances are God’s workmen whereby good is brought to us.—_The Ministry of Healing_, pp. 488, 489.

Bring the sunshine of heaven into your conversation. By speaking words that encourage and cheer, you will reveal that the sunshine of Christ’s righteousness dwells in your soul. Children need pleasant words. It is essential to their happiness to feel approval resting upon them. Strive to overcome harshness of expression, and cultivate soft tones. Catch the beauty contained in the lessons of God’s Word, and cherish this as essential to the happiness and success of your homelife. In a happy environment the children will develop dispositions that are sweet and sunshiny. 

True beauty of character is not something that shines out only on special occasions; the grace of Christ dwelling in the soul is revealed under all circumstances. He who cherishes this grace as an abiding presence in the life will reveal beauty in character under trying as well as under easy circumstances. In the home, in the world, in the church, we are to live the life of Christ.—_Reflecting Christ_, p. 185.