---
title:  Unprepared
date:  14/04/2019
---

There is one thing about the Word of God: it does not gloss over the realities of human life. On the contrary, it exposes them in all their harshness and, at times, sheer pain and despair. In fact, with the exception of the first few pages of the Bible and the last few at the end, the Word of God paints a sad picture of the human race. Paul was not exaggerating when he wrote, “For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God” (Rom. 3:23, NKJV).

`Read 1 Corinthians 10:1–13. What warnings are there, as well as what promises?`

In many ways, many of our actions in life are simply how we react to change. We constantly face changes; the challenge for us, as Christians, is to deal with them by faith, trusting in God and revealing that faith through obedience, regardless of temptations to do otherwise.

“The greatest want of the world is the want of men—men who will not be bought or sold, men who in their inmost souls are true and honest, men who do not fear to call sin by its right name, men whose conscience is as true to duty as the needle to the pole, men who will stand for the right though the heavens fall.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 57. Those words were as true for ancient Israel as they were in Ellen G. White’s time, and as they are for us now.

`What mistakes did the people in the following texts make in the face of change, and what can we learn from their mistakes?`

`Acts 5:1–10`

`Gen. 16:1, 2, 5, 6`

`Matt. 20:20–22`

Changes come, and they often bring temptations, challenges, and even, at times, fear. Thus, how crucial it is that we have the spiritual armor on to deal with them in the right manner. Again, regardless of whether the changes are unexpected or whether they are just the typical part of life, we need to be prepared for what’s coming, both the seen and the unseen.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The apostle [Paul] enjoined the Corinthian believers to heed the lesson contained in Israel’s experience. . . . He showed how love of ease and pleasure had prepared the way for sins that called forth the signal vengeance of God. It was when the children of Israel sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play, that they threw off the fear of God. . . .

The apostle’s words of warning to the Corinthian church are applicable to all time and are especially adapted to our day. By idolatry he meant not only the worship of idols, but self-serving, love of ease, the gratification of appetite and passion. A mere profession of faith in Christ, a boastful knowledge of the truth, does not make a man a Christian. A religion that seeks only to gratify the eye, the ear, and the taste, or that sanctions self-indulgence, is not the religion of Christ.—_The Acts of the Apostles_, pp. 316, 317.

God has not sanctioned polygamy in a single instance. It is contrary to His will. He knew that the happiness of man would be destroyed by it. Abraham’s peace was greatly marred by his unhappy marriage with Hagar. . . .

If Abraham and Sarah had waited in confiding faith for the fulfillment of the promise that they should have a son, much unhappiness would have been avoided. They believed that it would be just as God had promised, but could not believe that Sarah in her old age would have a son. . . . In this they both lacked faith and a perfect trust in the power of God. By hearkening to the voice of Sarah and taking Hagar as his wife Abraham failed to endure the test of his faith in God’s unlimited power, and brought upon himself and upon Sarah much unhappiness. The Lord intended to prove the firm faith and reliance of Abraham upon the promises He had made him.—_The Story of Redemption_, pp. 76, 77. 

Our danger is presented before us by Christ Himself. He knew the perils we should meet in these last days, and would have us prepare for them. “As it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man.” They were eating and drinking, planting and building, marrying and giving in marriage, and knew not until the day that Noah entered into the ark, and the Flood came and swept them all away. The day of God will find men absorbed in like manner in the business and pleasures of the world, in feasting and gluttony, and in indulging perverted appetite[s]. . . . 

Belief in the near coming of the Son of man in the clouds of heaven will not cause the true Christian to become neglectful and careless of the ordinary business of life. The waiting ones who look for the soon appearing of Christ will not be idle, but diligent in business. Their work will not be done carelessly and dishonestly, but with fidelity, promptness, and thoroughness.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 4, p. 309. 