---
title:  Preparing for Marriage
date:  15/04/2019
---

One of the greatest changes a person faces is when he or she gets married.

Of course, not everyone gets married. After all, Jesus, our greatest example, never did, nor did many other Bible characters.

Nevertheless, many people do marry, and thus, the Bible is not silent about marriage, which is surely one of the greatest life changers. The first social arrangement mentioned in the Bible is marriage. For God, marriage is so important that the same words He told Adam and Eve in Eden about marriage appear in three other places in Scripture.

“Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh” (Gen. 2:24; see also Matt. 19:5, Mark 10:7, Eph. 5:31). These texts tell us that once a person gets married, the most important relationship in their lives should be between them and their spouse, even more than between them and their parents. Among the reasons marriage between a man and a woman is so important to God is that it typifies the relationship that exists between His Son, Jesus, and the church, His bride (Eph. 5:32).

In constructing a house, one needs to stop and consider the cost (Luke 14:28–30); how much more so when establishing a home? A house is built with brick and mortar, wood and iron, wires and glass. But a home is built with things that are not necessarily material.

`What are some crucial traits that are important for all aspects of life but are especially important for those preparing for marriage? 1 Cor. 13:4–8; Gal. 5:22, 23.`

Preparation for marriage must begin with us personally and individually. At the same time, we need to look carefully at our future spouse to see if he or she would be a good complement for us. Is he or she a hard worker (Prov. 24:30–34)? Does he or she have a bad temper (Prov. 22:24)? Do we share common beliefs (2 Cor. 6:14, 15)? How do my family and friends feel about my future spouse (Prov. 11:14)? Am I relying on faith or on feelings alone (Prov. 3:5, 6)? The answers to these questions can mean a future of happiness or a lifetime of sorrow.

`Think about some good marriages. What principles do you find there that could be applied to other kinds of interpersonal relationships, as well?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Some of us have a nervous temperament, and are naturally as quick as a flash to think and to act; but let no one think that he cannot learn to become patient. Patience is a plant that will make rapid growth if carefully cultivated. By becoming thoroughly acquainted with ourselves, and then combining with the grace of God a firm determination on our part, we may be conquerors, and become perfect in all things, wanting in nothing.

Patience pours the balm of peace and love into the experiences of the home life. . . . Patience will seek for unity in the church, in the family, and in the community. This grace must be woven into our lives.—_My Life Today_, p. 97. 

Kind, cheerful, and encouraging words will prove more effective than the most healing medicines. These will bring courage to the heart of the desponding and discouraged, and the happiness and sunshine brought into the family by kind acts and encouraging words will repay the effort tenfold. The husband should remember that much of the burden of training his children rests upon the mother, that she has much to do with molding their minds. This should call into exercise his tenderest feelings, and with care should he lighten her burdens. He should encourage her to lean upon his large affections, and direct her mind to heaven, where there is strength and peace, and a final rest for the weary. He should not come to his home with a clouded brow, but should with his presence bring sunlight into the family, and should encourage his wife to look up and believe in God. Unitedly they can claim the promises of God and bring His rich blessing into the family. Unkindness, complaining, and anger shut Jesus from the dwelling. I saw that angels of God will flee from a house where there are unpleasant words, fretfulness, and strife.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 1, pp. 306, 307.

It is safe to make haste slowly in these matters. Give yourself sufficient time for observation on every point, and then do not trust to your own judgment, but let the mother who loves you, and your father, and confidential friends, make critical observation of the one you feel inclined to favor. Trust not to your own judgment, and marry no one whom you feel will not be an honor to your father and mother, [but . . . ] one who has intelligence and moral worth. The girl who gives over her affections to a man, and invites his attention by her advances, hanging around where she will be noticed of him unless he shall appear rude, is not the girl you want to associate with. . . .

 . . . It will be far better not to marry at all than to be unfortunately married, but seek counsel of God in all these things. Be so calm, so submissive to the will of God, that you will not be in a fever of excitement and unqualified for His service by your attachments.—Letter 59, 1880. 