---
title:  Preparing for Parenting
date:  16/04/2019
---

Few things can change our lives more than the birth of a child. Nothing in the family can or will ever be the same again.

“Like arrows in the hand of a warrior, so are the children of one’s youth. Happy is the man who has his quiver full of them” (Ps. 127:4, 5, NKJV).

At the same time, children do not arrive with an owner’s manual that tells their parents all they need to do to care for them and how to troubleshoot any problems that may arise. Even experienced parents are sometimes stumped by the actions, words, or attitudes of their children.

As important as it is to prepare for marriage, it is important also that those who hope to become parents be prepared for that awesome responsibility.

`However unique the following stories about births were, what principles can those preparing to be parents take away from these accounts? 1 Sam. 1:27; Judg. 13:7; Luke 1:6, 13–17, 39–55, 76–79.`

What an awesome responsibility and opportunity these parents had. Three would be the parents of prophets and leaders in Israel, one of their children would be the forerunner of the promised Messiah, and one of the children would be the Christ.

Yet, even if our children are not destined to be biblical prophets, parents should still be preparing for this radical change in their lives. “Even before the birth of the child, the preparation should begin that will enable it to fight successfully the battle against evil.

“If before the birth of her child she is self-indulgent, if she is selfish, impatient, and exacting, these traits will be reflected in the disposition of the child. Thus many children have received as a birthright almost unconquerable tendencies to evil.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, p. 256.

`Whether it is children under our care or if we have responsibilities toward other people, what are things we can do to discharge those responsibilities in the godliest manner possible?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[Christ’s] mother was His first human teacher. From her lips, and from the scrolls of the prophets, He learned of heavenly things. He lived in a peasant’s home, and faithfully and cheerfully He acted His part in bearing the household burdens. . . . He was a willing servant, a loving, obedient son. He learned a trade and with His own hands worked in the carpenter’s shop with Joseph. In the simple garb of a common laborer He walked the streets of the little town, going to and returning from His humble work. 

His education was gained from heaven-appointed sources, from useful work, from the study of the Scriptures and of nature, and from the experiences of life—God’s lessonbooks, full of instruction to all who bring to them the willing heart, the seeing eye, and the understanding heart.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 8, pp. 222, 223. 

Hannah dedicated Samuel to the Lord, and God revealed Himself to him in his childhood and youth. We must labor far more for our children and for the youth; for God will accept them to do great things in His name. . . . He desires that the children shall serve Him with undivided affection. 

Parents, there is a great work for you to do for Jesus, who has done everything for you. Take Him as your guide and helper. God has not withheld from you the very best gift He had to give—His only-begotten Son. Children and youth should not be hindered in coming to Jesus. Satan seeks to bind the children to himself as with bands of steel, and you can attain success in bringing them to Jesus only through determined personal effort. Children and youth should receive more earnest labor, for they are the hope of the church. Joseph, Daniel and his fellows, Samuel, David, John, and Timothy are shining examples that testify to the fact that “the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom” (Proverbs 9:10).—_Selected Messages_, bk. 1, p. 319. 

The mother should feel her need of the Holy Spirit’s guidance, that she herself may have a genuine experience in submission to the way and will of God. Then, through the grace of Christ, she can be a wise, gentle, loving teacher. To do her work as it should be done requires talent and skill and patient, thoughtful care. It calls for self-distrust and earnest prayer. Let every mother strive by persevering effort to fulfill her obligations. Let her bring her little ones to Jesus in the arms of faith, telling Him her great need, and asking for wisdom and grace. Earnestly, patiently, courageously, she should seek to improve her own abilities, that she may use aright the highest powers of the mind in the training of her children. 

As united rulers of the home kingdom, let father and mother show kindness and courtesy to each other. Never should their deportment militate against the precepts they seek to inculcate. They must maintain purity of heart and life if they would have their children pure. They must train and discipline self if they would have their children subject to discipline. They must set before their children an example worthy of imitation.—_Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students_, pp. 128, 129. 