---
title:  Preparing for Old Age
date:  17/04/2019
---

“The days of our lives are seventy years; and if by reason of strength they are eighty years, yet their boast is only labor and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away” (Ps. 90:10, NKJV). These words from Moses remind us of the inexorable march of time. As the years come and go, we begin to see and feel changes in our bodies. Our hair turns gray or falls out, we begin to slow down, and aches and pains become our daily companions. If we are married and have children, our children might bear their own children, and we could then enjoy our grandchildren. The previous seasons of life have helped us get ready for the last one.

`Read Psalm 71. What does this psalm teach us about not just preparing for old age, but about life in general?`

Psalm 71 is the psalm of an older person who experiences the challenges that come with life but who is happy because all along he or she has put their trust in God. The best way to grow old is to put our trust in Him while still young. In general terms, the author of this psalm shares three important lessons he learned as he moved toward this season of his life.

**Develop a deep, personal knowledge of God.** From his youth (Ps. 71:17), God was his strong refuge (Ps. 71:1, 7) and his Savior (Ps. 71:2). God is a rock and fortress (Ps. 71:3), his hope and confidence (Ps. 71:5). He speaks of God’s mighty deeds (Ps. 71:16, 17), His strength and power (Ps. 71:18), and all the great things He has done (Ps. 71:19). Ultimately he shouts, “O God, who is like You?” (Ps. 71:19, NKJV). Those daily conversations with God, as we study His Word and as we pause to reflect on all He does for us, will deepen our experience with Him.

**Develop good habits.** Good nutrition, exercise, water, sunshine, rest, et cetera will help us enjoy life longer and better. Take special note as to how the psalmist refers to the habits of trust (Ps. 71:3), praise (Ps. 71:6), and hope (Ps. 71:14).

**Develop a passion for God’s mission.** The person in Psalm 71 was not looking forward to being idle in his old age. Even in his retirement he wanted to continue praising God (Ps. 71:8) and telling others about Him (Ps. 71:15–18).

`For those who are older, what are some of the benefits of getting older? What do you know now that you didn’t when younger that you could share with those who are younger?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The infinite mercy and love of Jesus, the sacrifice made in our behalf, call for the most serious and solemn reflection. We should dwell upon the character of our dear Redeemer and Intercessor. We should meditate upon the mission of Him who came to save His people from their sins. As we thus contemplate heavenly themes, our faith and love will grow stronger, and our prayers will be more and more acceptable to God, because they will be more and more mixed with faith and love. They will be intelligent and fervent. There will be more constant confidence in Jesus, and a daily, living experience in His power to save to the uttermost all that come unto God by Him.

As we meditate upon the perfections of the Saviour, we shall desire to be wholly transformed and renewed in the image of His purity. There will be a hungering and thirsting of soul to become like Him whom we adore. The more our thoughts are upon Christ, the more we shall speak of Him to others and represent Him to the world.—_Steps to Christ,_ p. 89.

If we would develop a character which God can accept, we must form correct habits in our religious life. Daily prayer is as essential to growth in grace, and even to spiritual life itself, as is temporal food to physical well-being. We should accustom ourselves to lift the thoughts often to God in prayer. If the mind wanders, we must bring it back; by persevering effort, habit will finally make it easy. We cannot for one moment separate ourselves from Christ with safety. We may have His presence to attend us at every step, but only by observing the conditions which He Himself has laid down.

Religion must be made the great business of life. Everything else should be held subordinate to this. All our powers, of soul, body, and spirit, must be engaged in the Christian warfare. We must look to Christ for strength and grace, and we shall gain the victory as surely as Jesus died for us.—_The Sanctified Life_, p. 93.

Jesus [says]: As you confess Me before men, so I will confess you before God and the holy angels. You are to be My witnesses upon earth, channels through which My grace can flow for the healing of the world. So I will be your representative in heaven. The Father beholds not your faulty character, but He sees you as clothed in My perfection. I am the medium through which Heaven’s blessings shall come to you. And everyone who confesses Me by sharing My sacrifice for the lost shall be confessed as a sharer in the glory and joy of the redeemed.

He who would confess Christ must have Christ abiding in him. He cannot communicate that which he has not received. The disciples might speak fluently on doctrines, they might repeat the words of Christ Himself; but unless they possessed Christlike meekness and love, they were not confessing Him. . . .

The mission of Christ’s servants is a high honor, and a sacred trust.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 357.
