---
title:  Preparing for Death
date:  18/04/2019
---

Unless we are alive at the Second Coming, one change that we can all expect is the biggest change of all: the change from life to death. Along with marriage and birth, what change has a greater impact on family than the death of an immediate family member?

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:24–26. What do these verses teach us about death?`

Many times, of course, death comes unexpectedly and tragically. How many men, women, and even children woke up one morning only, before the sun set, to close their eyes not in sleep but in death? Or woke up one morning and before the sun set had lost a family member?

Other than making sure you are connected by faith with the Lord and covered in His righteousness moment by moment (see Rom. 3:22), you can’t prepare for a death that you don’t see coming, either for yourself or your loved one.

On the other hand, what would you do if you knew you had only a few months to live? We may not know for certain when death will overcome us, but we certainly may know when we are nearing the end of our life. Thus, how crucial it is to prepare ourselves and our family for the inevitable.

`Read 1 Kings 2:1–4, some of the last words David spoke to his son Solomon. What lessons can we take from this about preparing for death, both for ourselves and for family members?`

At first glance, one could argue, That’s rich! David, who murdered Uriah after impregnating his wife (see 2 Samuel 11), tells his son to walk in the way of the Lord. On the other hand, it was perhaps precisely because of this sin and the horrible consequences that followed that David’s words were so powerful. He was, no doubt, in his own way trying to warn his son away from the folly that caused him so much grief. David learned, the hard way, some difficult lessons about the cost of sin, and no doubt he had hoped to spare his son some of the grief that he himself had experienced.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The character you bear in probationary time will be the character you will have at the coming of Christ. If you would be a saint in heaven, you must first be a saint on earth. The traits of character you cherish in life will not be changed by death or by the resurrection. You will come up from the grave with the same disposition you manifested in your home and in society. Jesus does not change the character at His coming. The work of transformation must be done now. Our daily lives are determining our destiny.—_The Adventist Home_, p. 16. 

When I saw my husband breathe his last, I felt that Jesus was more precious to me than He ever had been in any previous hour of my life. . . . [W]hen he upon whose large affections I had leaned, with whom I had labored for thirty-five years, was taken away, I could lay my hands upon his eyes, and say, “I commit my treasure to Thee until the morning of the resurrection.”. . . 

At times I felt that I could not have my husband die. But these words seemed to be impressed on my mind: “Be still, and know that I am God.” Psalm 46:10. I keenly feel my loss, but dare not give myself up to useless grief. This would not bring back the dead. And I am not so selfish as to wish, if I could, to bring him from his peaceful slumber to engage again in the battles of life. Like a tired warrior, he has lain down to sleep. I will look with pleasure upon his resting place. The best way in which I and my children can honor the memory of him who has fallen, is to take the work where he left it, and in the strength of Jesus carry it forward to completion. We will be thankful for the years of usefulness that were granted to him; and for his sake, and for Christ’s sake, we will learn from his death a lesson which we shall never forget. We will let this bereavement make us more kind and gentle, more forbearing, patient, and thoughtful toward the living.—_Life Sketches of Ellen G. White_, pp. 252–254.

David’s public labor was about to close. He knew that he should soon die, and he does not leave his business matters in confusion, to vex the soul of his son; but while he has sufficient physical and mental strength, he arranges the affairs of his kingdom, even to the minutest matters. . . . 

David, in arranging his business, sets a good example to all who are advanced in years, to settle their matters while they are capable of doing so, that when they shall be drawing near to death, and their mental faculties are dimmed, they shall have nothing of a worldly nature to divert their minds from God.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 2, pp. 1024, 1025.