---
title:  The Fall
date:  02/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 3:1; 2 Corinthians 11:3; Revelation 12:7–9; Genesis 2:16, 17; Genesis 3:7–13.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘I will make you and the woman enemies to each other. Your children and her children will be enemies. You will bite her child’s foot, but he will crush [destroy] your head’ ” (Genesis 3:15, ERV).

GOD GAVE ADAM AND EVE many gifts. Along with these gifts, God also gave our first parents a warning: “ ‘You may eat from any tree in the garden. But you must not eat from the tree that gives knowledge about good and evil. If you eat fruit from that tree, on that day you will certainly [for sure] die!’ ” (Genesis 2:16, 17, ERV). This warning shows us that God never wanted our first parents to know anything about evil. God wanted Adam and Eve to know only about good.

We can understand why, right?

Adam and Evil must die (Genesis 3:19) because they disobey the command from God (Genesis 2:17). God no longer will allow Adam and Eve to eat from the tree of life. If they do, they will live forever as sinners (Genesis 3:22). So, God tells our first parents that they must leave the Garden of Eden (Genesis 3:24).

But God sends Adam and Eve away with a promise of hope. We see this promise in Genesis 3:15. Genesis 3:15 is the first promise about the Good News. God promises all of us a way to escape the punishment of sin and death.