---
title:  The Snake 
date:  03/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Who is the snake? How does the snake trick Eve? For the answers, read Genesis 3:1; 2 Corinthians 11:3; and Revelation 12:7–9.`

Genesis 3:1 starts with these words: “the snake” (ERV). Moses put the word “snake” at the beginning of the sentence so we will pay attention to it. The first word of a sentence is always important. So, we see that the snake will have an important part in the story. Also, do you see that Moses wrote “the snake” and not “a snake”? The word “the” shows us that the snake is someone we already know. So, Moses shows us from the first word of Genesis 3 that the snake is someone real and not a make-believe person.

Elsewhere, the Bible shows us that the snake is the enemy of God (Isaiah 27:1). The Bible also names the snake “the devil or Satan” (Revelation 12:9, ERV). During Bible times, people in the Near East believed that the snake was a word picture for evil.

“Satan did not want Eve to discover his evil plan. So, Satan chose to hide who he really was. He chose to appear to Eve as the snake. The snake was the perfect animal for Satan to use to trick Eve. At that time, the snake was one of the smartest and most beautiful animals on the earth. The snake had wings. When the snake flew through the air, it shined as bright as polished gold.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 53, adapted.

The snake pretends to be friends with God, and not His enemy. How does the snake do this? The snake says the words of God to the woman. He acts as if he supports the commandments of God. Right from the start, we see that Satan likes to say the words of God. Later, we shall see that Satan knows the Bible very well (Matthew 4:6).

Do you also see that Satan does not argue with Eve right away? First, he asks her a question. The question tricks Eve into thinking that the snake believes the command of the Lord. “ ‘Did God really say . . .’ ” (Genesis 3:1, NIrV). But the snake really does not believe God at all. So, from the start, we see that Satan is very sneaky and tricky. As we will soon see, his tricks work, too.

`If Satan tricked perfect Eve in a perfect Eden, how much more can he trick us sinners on a ruined earth? What is our best hope against the tricks and lies of the devil?`