---
title:  The Forbidden Fruit 
date:  04/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the commandment from God to Adam in Genesis 2:16, 17. Compare this commandment with the words that the snake says to the woman in Genesis 3:1–6. How are the words of God different from the words of the snake? What important Bible truths do your answers show you?`

Do you see how the snake says to Eve (Genesis 3:1–6) many of the same things that God says to Adam (Genesis 2:16, 17)? The snake wants Eve to believe that he has replaced God and knows better than God does. At first, the snake asks Eve an innocent question. But the snake asks the question in a sneaky way. He wants to confuse Eve. He wants her to believe that she does not really understand what God meant. Next, Satan tries to get Eve to doubt God. Then finally, Satan boldly says that the words of God are false.

Satan tells two lies. The first lie is about death. The second lie is about good and evil. God tells Adam that he will die for sure if he eats the forbidden fruit (Genesis 2:17). But Satan tells Eve that she will not die (Genesis 3:4). God forbids Adam to eat the fruit (Genesis 2:17). But Satan encourages Eve to eat the fruit because the fruit will make her the same as God (Genesis 3:5).

Eve believes Satan. She believes his lie that she will live forever if she eats the fruit. She believes the lie that she will be the same as God. As soon as Eve disobeys God, she behaves as if God is dead. Worse, she behaves as if she herself is God. We can see this change in behavior when Eve looks at the fruit. Eve “saw that the tree’s fruit was good” (Genesis 3:6, NIrV). These words help us remember what God said at the end of each day when He made the skies and the earth. God saw what He made, and He “knew that it was good” (Genesis 1:4, ERV and so on).

In Bible times, Egyptian and Greek religious leaders accepted and taught the two lies of Satan. These leaders taught that the human spirit does not die when the body dies. The leaders also taught that humans can be the same as gods. Sad to say, these false teachings became part of the Jewish and Christian religions. Today, many churches believe that the spirit does not die when the body does.

`What does the Bible teach us happens when we die? How does this Bible truth keep us safe from the lie of Satan that our spirits live forever?`