---
title:  Hiding From God 
date:  05/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`In Genesis 3:7–13, we read about what happens after Adam and Eve sin. Why do Adam and Eve hide from God? Why does God ask Adam the question “ ‘Where are you? ” (Genesis 3:9, ERV). What excuses do Adam and Eve make for their sin?`

When God makes Adam and Eve, God covers their bodies in light that is the same as a coat. This coat of light shows the glory of God (read Psalm 8:5; compare with Psalm 104:1, 2). After Adam and Eve sin, their coats of light disappear. The couple are no longer perfect copies of God and His love. They feel naked. “So they got some fig leaves, sewed them together, and wore them for clothes” (Genesis 3:7, ERV). Do you see the word written as “sewed”? This verb also can be written as “make.” So far, we have only seen “make” connected with God (read Genesis 1:7, 16, 25). Moses wants us to see that Adam and Eve try to cover their sins when they “make” their own clothes. Adam and Eve think their own good behavior can save them. But Paul explains that we cannot save ourselves (Galatians 2:16).

God asks Adam, “ ‘Where are you?’ ” (Genesis 3:9, ERV). Does God ask this question because He does not know where Adam is? Of course, God knows! Later, God will ask Cain the same question. God asks the question to help Adam and Eve understand their guilt. God wants them to turn from sin. As soon as humans sinned, God worked to save them.

This story shows us the time when God will judge His people in the end times. First, God asks questions (Genesis 3:9). Next, God announces punishments (Genesis 3:14–19) to help Adam and Eve turn back to Him. Then God can save them (Genesis 3:15). We see this idea all through the Bible.

At first, Adam and Eve do what most sinners do when they are guilty. They blame other people. Eve led Adam to sin. So, Adam blames Eve (Genesis 3:12). Adam also blames God because God gave him the woman. Eve blames the snake. “ ‘The snake tricked me’ ” (Genesis 3:13, ERV). The word written as “tricked” is “nasha’ ” in the Hebrew language. “Nasha’ ” shows us that the snake tried to give Eve false hope. The snake wanted Eve to believe she was doing the right thing (2 Kings 19:10; Isaiah 37:10; Jeremiah 49:16).

`Do you blame other people for the wrong things that you do? Why is it easy to fall into this trap?`