---
title:  God Curses The Snake 
date:  06/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“ ‘I will make you and the woman enemies to each other. Your children and her children will be enemies. You will bite her child’s foot, but he will crush [destroy] your head’ ” (Genesis 3:15, ERV). What is the Lord saying to the snake? What hint of hope do we see in this curse?

`The snake started the whole mess in Eden. So, God starts His work as Judge with the snake. Do you see that the snake is the only one in the story that God curses?`

Genesis 3:15 shows us the reverse of what happened when God made the skies and earth. At that time, God filled the skies and earth with life, good things, and blessings. Now, God judges the snake. The announcement against the snake leads to death, evil, and curses. As we will see, God also includes a promise of hope for us in His curse against the snake. The curse is a special message about the future: God will save humans (Genesis 3:15). Do you see that God gives Adam and Eve this hope before He judges them? Yes, Adam and Eve sinned. Yes, they will suffer because they sinned. Yes, they will die, too. But God gives them hope that He will save them in the end.

`Compare Genesis 3:15 with Romans 16:20; Hebrews 2:14; and Revelation 12:17. How do these verses show us God’s plan to save us and the war between good and evil?`

**Do you see how Genesis 3:15 and Revelation 12:17 show us the same word pictures and ideas? Let us see how the parts in these verses match up:**

|||
|-------------|-------------|
|Genesis 3:15|Revelation 12:17|
|Snake (Satan)|dragon|
|Enemies|very angry|
|Woman (in Eden)|woman (in desert)|
|Her children|Her children|
|Bite/crush|war|
|||

The war between the snake and the woman will continue until the end of time. God promises that Satan will lose the war. Jesus will crush the head of the snake (Revelation 20:10).

`God gave us hope in Eden where sin and evil started on this earth. Why is this Bible truth so comforting?`