---
title:  The Plan Of God For Humans 
date:  07/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What happens to Adam and Eve because of their sin? For the answer, read Genesis 3:15–24.`

God gives the snake a punishment that is the same as a curse (Genesis 3:14). But God gives the man and the woman a different punishment. Their punishment is not a curse. Moses writes the word “curse” only one more time in Genesis to show us that God curses the “ground” (Genesis 3:17). God has better plans for the man and the woman than He has for the snake. God offers Adam and Eve hope that He does not offer Satan.

The woman sins because of her connection with the snake. So, God gives the woman a punishment connected to the curse that God puts on the snake. That is why the special message about the woman in Genesis 3:16 shows us the special message about the Savior in Genesis 3:15. This connection helps us to see that everything God says about the woman is part of His future plan to save humans (compare with 1 Timothy 2:14, 15).

The man sins because he obeys the woman, and not God. So, God punishes the man by putting a curse on the ground because God made Adam from the ground (Genesis 3:17). Now the man must work hard his whole life (Genesis 3:17–19). Then he will go back to the ground when he dies (Genesis 3:19). Death was never part of the plan of God for humans.

The woman is a word picture for life and mercy (Genesis 3:20). A Child will be born to a future daughter of Eve. This Child will be the Savior of the whole earth. He will save humans from the curse of sin and death.

God wants only good for Adam and Eve, and not evil. Adam and Eve had no reason to doubt the love of God or His words to them. But now Adam and Eve know evil. So, God will do everything to save them from it. We see this Bible truth in the punishments that God gives Adam and Eve. These punishments show us the hope that God gave to our first parents—and to us.

`We often think that “knowledge” is good, right? Why is that not always so, as the sin of Adam and Eve shows us? What things are we better off not knowing?`