---
title:  Further Thought
date:  08/04/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Compare the tree of life to the tree of the knowledge about good and evil. Both trees are located in the middle of the Garden of Eden (Genesis 2:9). When the first humans eat the forbidden fruit, God no longer allows them to eat from the tree of life. This Bible truth teaches us an important rule: our spiritual choices are connected to our health and our bodies. These choices can make us weak or strong. They can lead to life or death. Solomon understood this connection. That is why he tells his son: “Don’t forget my teaching. Remember what I tell you to do. What I teach will give you a good, long life, and all will go well for you” (Proverbs 3:1, 2, ERV). The New Jerusalem also shows us this connection between our spiritual choices and our health. There in the Holy City, we find only the tree of life (Revelation 22:2).

“When God made Eve, He did not make her less or better than man. Eve was the perfect match for Adam in everything. God did not plan for the holy couple to have separate interests from each other. At the same time, God made each of them to think and act on their own. But then Eve sinned. Because she sinned first, the Lord told her that Adam shall be the one in control of their marriage. God told Eve she must obey her husband. This punishment was part of the curse that sin caused. In many ways, the curse has made the life of woman very hard. Her life often feels the same as a heavy load. Man has behaved the same as if he were an all-powerful king and woman was his slave.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 3, page 484, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`God came to Adam and asked him questions. God wanted the questions to help Adam see his guilt. God also asked the questions to help Adam turn away from his sin. God uses this same plan in other Bible stories. We see God asking questions in the stories of Cain (Genesis 4:9, 10), the Flood (Genesis 6:5–8), the Tower of Babel (Genesis 11:5), and Sodom and Gomorrah (Genesis 18:21). All these stories show us the future work that God will do when He will judge the earth in the end times. How do you see in these stories the special work of God as our Judge?`

`Why does Eve think that she will get wisdom if she eats fruit from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil? How can we avoid making the same mistake in our own lives? That is, how can we avoid making the mistake of expecting something better than the hope that God promises us in the Bible?`