---
title:  God Punishes Egypt
date:   19/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 7:8–15; Exodus 7:3, 13, 14, 22; Exodus 7:14–8:19; Exodus 8:20–9:12; Exodus 9:13–10:29.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Pharaoh refused to let the Israelites go free, just as the Lordord had said through [told to] Moses” (Exodus 9:35, ERV).

A farmer tried to get his donkey to move. But the donkey wouldn’t budge. So, the farmer took a thick branch and smacked the donkey. Again, the farmer spoke to the donkey. Then the donkey started to move.

When someone asked the farmer why the farmer’s plan worked, he answered, “First you need to get the animal’s attention.”

This story helps us understand better Moses’ experience with Pharaoh, king of Egypt. God gave Moses his orders. Then Moses went to Pharaoh with God’s famous words, “shalach et ami,” which means “Let My people go!”

Pharaoh doesn’t want to let God’s people go. The Bible doesn’t explain why Pharaoh refused. Yes, the Egyptians believed the Hebrews could join their enemies in a war, fight against them, and escape Egypt (read Exodus 1:10). At the same time, the Hebrews were the slaves of the Egyptians. As slaves, the Hebrews worked for free. Pharaoh didn’t want to lose his slaves. So, God needed to get Pharaoh’s attention first before He could get Pharaoh to change his mind about letting His people go free.