---
title:  The Lord God Against “the Gods” Of Egypt
date:   20/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What lessons can we learn from the first meeting between the God of the Hebrews and the gods of Egypt? Read Exodus 7:8–15 for the answer.`

The coming fights were going to be between the living God and the Egyptian “gods.” What made things worse was that Pharaoh believed he was one of those gods. The Lord didn’t just fight against the Egyptians, or even Egypt itself. The Lord fought against their gods. The Egyptians honored more than 1,500 male and female gods. The Bible tells us very clearly: “ ‘I will punish all the gods of Egypt. I am the Lord’ ” (Exodus 12:12, ICB). Later, when Israel hears the story again about how God saved them, Moses tells them, “The Egyptians were burying all their oldest sons. The Lordord had struck them down. He had done it when he punished their gods” (Numbers 33:4, NIrV).

We can see an example of how God punished their gods in the story of the stick that turned into a snake (Exodus 7:9–12). In Egypt, a cobra was a symbol of Wadjet, a female snake god. A cobra is a snake whose bite can kill a person. Wadjet controlled southern or Lower Egypt. The symbol of the cobra was in Pharaoh’s crown. The cobra was a sign of Pharaoh’s power and showed he was a god. That’s because the Egyptians believed that Wadjet would spit poison at Pharaoh’s enemies. The Egyptians also believed that the snake was holy. So, the snake would lead Pharaoh to the place where Egyptian kings went after they died.

Aaron’s stick became a snake and ate all the other snakes in front of Pharaoh. In this way, God showed His power over Egyptian magic. God beat the symbol of Pharaoh’s might. Not only that, Aaron and Moses held the snake in their hands (Exodus 7:12, 15). This first fight showed God’s power and control over Egypt. Moses had more power and control than did the “god” Pharaoh himself.

The ancient Egyptians also believed that another snake god, Nehebkau, was holy. So, the Egyptians worshiped him. Nehebkau’s name means “he who controls the spirits.” The Egyptians believed Nehebkau was very powerful because he swallowed seven cobras. So, when Aaron’s stick became a snake and swallowed all the other snakes, God showed the Egyptians that He, not their snake god, had all the power. After this powerful meeting, the Egyptians understood this message right away and very clearly.