---
title:  Who Made Pharaoh’s Heart Stubborn?
date:   21/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 7:3, 13, 14, 22. How do we understand these verses?`

Nine times in the book of Exodus, the Bible says that God makes Pharaoh’s heart hard or stubborn (Exodus 4:21; Exodus 7:3; Exodus 9:12; Exodus 10:1, 20, 27; Exodus 11:10; Exodus 14:4, 8; also read Romans 9:17, 18). Another nine times we read in the Bible that Pharaoh made his own heart hard (Exodus 7:13, 14, 22; Exodus 8:15, 19, 32; Exodus 9:7, 34, 35).

So, who really made the king’s heart hard: God or Pharaoh himself?

To answer this question, let’s look at the story about God’s ten punishments against Egypt. We read that in each of the first five punishments, Pharaoh caused his own heart to become hard. So, he started the problem. Then, starting with the 6<sup>th</sup> punishment, the Bible says that God made Pharaoh’s heart hard (Exodus 9:12). What this information tells us is that God honored Pharaoh’s decision and gave it more strength. That’s exactly what God promised Moses He would do (Exodus 4:21).

In other words, God sent punishments to help Pharaoh stop sinning and to turn from the evil in his heart. God didn’t put fresh evil in Pharaoh’s heart. God allowed Pharaoh to do the evil that was in his heart already (read Romans 1:24–32).

So, God didn’t remove Pharaoh’s free choice. Pharaoh was free to decide to serve God or fight against Him. Pharaoh chose to fight against God.

The lessons from this story are plain. God gives us free choice. We can choose between right and wrong, good and evil, to obey or not to obey. Lucifer in heaven, Adam and Eve in Eden, Pharaoh in Egypt, and us today: God gives us all a choice. Wherever we live, we choose between life or death (Deuteronomy 30:19).

Here’s a word picture to help us better understand this idea: imagine, in your mind, butter and clay in sunshine. The sun melts the butter but makes the clay hard. The heat of the sun is the same on both objects. But two different things happen. What happens depends on the material. With Pharaoh, his actions depended on his thoughts and feelings about God and His people.