---
title:  The First Three Punishments
date:   22/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God sends ten punishments to Egypt. For sure, these punishments made life terrible for the Egyptians. But the punishments were really against their gods. Each punishment hit at least one of these gods.

`What were the punishments? Read Exodus 7:14–8:19 for the answer.`

God told Moses that the talk with Pharaoh, king of Egypt, would be difficult (Exodus 7:14). But God wants to show Himself to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians. So, God decides to communicate with them in a way that they can understand. Also, the Hebrews will learn more about their God from His punishments against the Egyptians.

The first punishment is against Hapi. Hapi is the god of the Nile (Exodus 7:17–25). Life in Egypt depended on water from the Nile. Where there was water, there was life. Because water made life possible, the Egyptians invented Hapi and worshiped this god as the giver of life.

Of course, only the living God is the Giver of all life, including water and food (Genesis 1:1, 2, 20–22; Psalm 104:27, 28; Psalm 136:25; John 11:25; John 14:6). Changing water into blood is a symbol of changing life into death. Hapi couldn’t give life or protect it. Only God can.

God gives Pharaoh another chance. This time, God fights against and punishes the female frog god, Heqet (Exodus 8:1–15). Then the Nile gives frogs, not life. The Egyptians fear and hate the frogs. The Egyptians want to get rid of them. The exact time when this punishment ends shows that God’s power was the cause of the frogs.

The third punishment has the shortest explanation (Exodus 8:16–19). The type of insect meant here (“kinnim” in the Hebrew language) is not clear. (Maybe they are gnats, mosquitoes, ticks, or lice.) The punishment was against the god Geb. Geb was the Egyptian god of the earth. Out of the dust, God brings insects. (The word “dust” helps us remember that God made the skies and the earth.) The insects cover the land. The Egyptian magicians can’t do this miracle (that’s because only God can make life). So, the magicians announce, “ ‘This is the finger of God’ ” (Exodus 8:19, NLV). That is, God’s power was the cause of the insects. But Pharaoh refused to change his heart.