---
title:  Flies, Livestock, And Boils
date:   23/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 8:20–9:12. This story shows us that God is very powerful. At the same time, what does this story teach us about our freedom to reject God?`

Uatchit was the Egyptian female god of flies. The god Khepri was in charge of the rising sun, life, and being born again on this earth after dying. The Lord defeated both of these “gods.” In the story in Exodus 8:20–9:12, God protected the Hebrews while the Egyptians suffered. From this time forward, none of God’s punishments bother the Hebrews anymore.

Again, God’s punishments were His way of letting Pharaoh, king of Egypt, know that “ ‘I, the Lordord, am in this land’ ” (Exodus 8:22, ERV).

Pharaoh tried to bargain with God. Pharaoh was willing to allow Israel to worship their God and give offerings to Him. But the Israelites must not leave Egypt (Exodus 8:25). Moses couldn’t agree to this plan because the Egyptians thought animals were holy. If the Israelites killed these animals and gave them to God as an offering, the Egyptians would hurt the Hebrews. Also, God’s plan for His people didn’t include their staying in Egypt.

In the meantime, God’s next punishment (Exodus 9:1–7) falls on the livestock. Hathor was the Egyptian female god of love and protection. Hathor had the head of a cow. A bull god Apis also was very popular in Egypt. So, in the 5<sup>th</sup> punishment, God defeated important Egyptian gods when the livestock of the Egyptians died.

In the 6<sup>th</sup> punishment (Exodus 9:8–12), God completely defeats the female god Isis. Isis was the god of medicine, magic, and wisdom. God also defeated other Egyptian gods: Sekhmet and Imhotep. Sekhmet was the female god of war and disease. Imhotep was the god of medicine and healing. Sekhmet and Imhotep can’t protect the people who worship them. Now the magicians are so sick that they can’t appear in Pharaoh’s palace. The magicians are helpless to stop the God who made the skies and the earth.

For the first time in the story about the ten punishments, a verse says that “the Lordord made Pharaoh stubborn” (Exodus 9:12, NIrV). As we already saw, these words show us that the Lord will respect our decisions. He will allow us to suffer when we choose to reject Him.