---
title:  Frozen Rain, More Insects, And No Light
date:   24/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Are God’s punishments against the Egyptian gods a success? Do they cause Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to change his mind? Read Exodus 9:13–10:29 for the answers.`

Nut was the Egyptian female god of the skies. The Egyptians often painted pictures of Nut that showed her in control of everything that happened under the sky and on the earth. Osiris was the god of crops and having babies. In the Bible, hail or frozen rain is often a punishment from God (Isaiah 28:2, 17; Ezekiel 13:11–13). During this punishment, the Egyptians who hide their property in a safe shelter will be protected (Exodus 9:20, 21). Everyone is now given a test: will they, or will they not, believe God’s Word and obey the warning?

God says that His reason for letting Pharaoh live is so that the whole earth will know Him (Exodus 9:16). The king of Egypt now confesses that he sinned. But later, he changes his mind.

Seth was the Egyptian god of storms, war, disagreements, and disease. Seth and Isis were the gods of farming. Shu was a god of the air. Serapis was the female god of making babies, healing, and the afterlife. None of the Egyptian gods can stop God’s punishments (Exodus 10:4–20) because statues have no power (Isaiah 44:9, 10, 12–17).

Pharaoh’s servants ask him to let Israel go. But again Pharaoh refuses. Pharaoh tries to make a deal with Moses. But Moses rejects Pharaoh’s offer because he won’t let the Hebrew women and children join the men in the desert. Women and children are an important part of worship.

Finally, Ra was the top Egyptian god. As we saw already, Ra was the sun god. Thoth was a moon god. But Ra and Thoth can’t give light. Pharaoh again tries to make a deal with Moses. But Moses refuses to accept this bargain. Then darkness falls on Egypt for three days. But there was light where the Israelites lived. The separation between the Israelites and the Hebrews is powerful.

Pharaoh refused to feel sorry about his sins. The Lord gave Pharaoh very powerful proof that He was God. Pharaoh’s own servants asked him, “ ‘How long will this man [Moses] make trouble for us? Let the Israelite men go to worship the Lord their God. Don’t you know that Egypt is ruined?’ ” (Exodus 10:7, ICB). But Pharaoh refused to obey God and let His people go.