---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   25/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Plagues of Egypt,” pages 265–272, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“God allowed His people to see that the Egyptians were very mean and nasty. Then His people wouldn’t want to worship their gods. The Lord showed how much He hated the worship of false gods. The Lord punished Pharaoh for hurting His people and for refusing to be kind and fair to them. . . . God didn’t work a special miracle to make the heart of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, hard. God gave Pharaoh powerful proof of His strength. But the king was stubborn. He refused to obey God’s truth. Every time Pharaoh rejected God’s truth, he grew more stubborn. Then Pharaoh wanted to fight against God more. Pharaoh rejected the first miracle. That choice caused terrible things to happen to Pharaoh in the end.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 268, adapted.

“The Egyptians prayed to the sun and the moon. When God caused the sky over Egypt to become dark, the people and their gods alike suffered. God came to help the people that the Egyptians made their slaves. The punishment was scary. But the punishment also shows God’s forgiveness and love. God didn’t want to destroy the people of Egypt. God gave the Egyptians time to confess their sins before He sent them the final and most terrible punishment.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 272, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Think more about why Pharaoh made his heart so hard against God. Pharaoh saw proof that letting God’s people go was the correct choice. But he refused to let them go. How can someone be so foolish? What does Pharaoh’s story teach us about lying to ourselves? What other people in the Bible made the same bad decisions? Think, for example, of Judas.`

`When Pharaoh sees the disaster that his evil choices brought on Egypt, he confesses, “ ‘This time I have sinned. The Lordord is right, and I and my people are wrong’ ” (Exodus 9:27, ERV). At the time, this announcement seems very powerful. But how do we know that Pharaoh didn’t really mean what he said?`