---
title:  The Burning Bush
date:   05/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson

Exodus 3:1–6; Exodus 3:7–12; Exodus 3:13–22; Exodus 4:1–17; Exodus 4:18–31.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “Then the Lord said, ‘I have seen the troubles my people have suffered in Egypt, and I have heard their cries when the Egyptians hurt them. I know about their pain. Now I will go down and save my people from the Egyptians. I will take [remove] them from that land and lead them to a good land where they can be free from these troubles. It [the Promised Land] is a land filled with many good things” (Exodus 3:7, 8, ERV).

God’s plan for us will often change our whole lives. If we follow God’s plan, we will learn that what He wants for us is always the best choice for our lives. But sometimes accepting God’s plan isn’t always easy for us to do.

Moses had a hard time at first. God showed Moses His plan for his life at the burning bush. Moses knew that he saw a miracle. The Lord had special work for Moses to do. The question was: Will Moses accept this work? For sure, this work will bring big changes to his life. At first, Moses wasn’t really willing to accept the work.

You may remember times when you made big plans for your life. But God changed those plans. Yes, we can be useful to God in many ways. But when we completely follow God’s plan and do what He leads us to do, we will be happy. God may ask us to do things that aren’t always easy. For sure, things weren’t always easy for Moses. But we must allow God to lead us, or we will go in the wrong direction.