---
title:  The Burning Bush
date:   06/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

After Moses escaped to Midian, he married and had two sons, Gershom and Eliezer (Exodus 18:3, 4). Moses was part of Jethro’s family. Jethro was Moses’ father-in-law. Jethro was the priest or spiritual leader in Midian. Moses spent the next 40 years being a shepherd. He did the same work that David later did as a shepherd (2 Samuel 7:8). Moses enjoyed being outside in nature because it helped him think about God.

These quiet years in the desert helped change Moses and get him ready to be the leader of God’s people. God also gave Moses special work to do. With the Holy Spirit’s help, Moses wrote two of the oldest books in the Bible (read Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 251; and Francis D. Nicol, et al., editors, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 3, page 1,140). God gave Moses important information about the worldwide war between good and evil, the Fall, the Flood, and His plan to save sinners. Moses gave to us Bible truth about the living God, the God who made us and keeps us alive. Moses also helps us understand the things God is doing to solve the sin problem. Most important, Moses gave us the book of Genesis. Without this book, we can’t really understand Bible history or God’s plan to save us.

`Read Exodus 3:1–6. In these verses, the Lord introduces Himself to Moses as “ ‘the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’ ” (Exodus 3:6, ERV). Why is this connection between Moses’ ancestors and God important?`

Moses saw that the fire burned the bush but didn’t destroy it. Moses knew he saw a miracle. Something important must be happening right in front of him. As Moses moved closer, the Lord told him to take off his shoes to show respect for God. The place was holy because God was there.

The Lord told Moses that He was “the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob” (Exodus 3:6, ERV). The Lord promised that He would give the land of Canaan to their future children. Of course, Moses knew about this promise. This promise helped Moses to understand that God had a plan to save His people and Moses was a part of it.

`Moses needed 80 years before God decided that he was ready to lead His people. What does this truth teach us about our need to be patient?`