---
title:  The Angel Of The Lord
date:   07/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The Bible says, “On that mountain, Moses saw the angel of the Lordord in a burning bush” (Exodus 3:2, ERV). Who was this “angel”? The Lord Jesus Himself! Jesus “spoke to him [Moses] from inside the bush” (Exodus 3:4, NIrV).

Don’t let the name “angel of the Lordord” confuse you. The word “angel” means “messenger” (from the Hebrew word “mal’akh”). Sometimes an angel in the Bible may be human. Or sometimes the angel may be from heaven (read Malachi 3:1). The Bible verse helps us to understand the correct meaning to choose for angel. Many verses in the Bible use the words “the angel of the Lordord” to mean God Himself. (Read Genesis 22:11, 15–18; Genesis 31:3, 11, 13; Judges 2:1, 2; Judges 6:11–22; Zechariah 3:1, 2.) Jesus is God’s messenger. Jesus communicates the Father’s words to us.

`Read Exodus 3:7–12. How did God explain to Moses why He wanted to help the Israelites, who were slaves in Egypt?`

God’s people were suffering deeply. God heard them cry and wanted to help them (Exodus 2:23–25). God named Israel “my people” (Exodus 3:7, KJV). So, even before the Promise that God made to Israel at Sinai, the Israelites were His people. God will bless them and give them success in the Promised Land (if they will obey). God promised their fathers that He would do these things.

God told Moses to go to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to do a special job: “ ‘So now I am sending you to Pharaoh. Go! Lead my people, the Israelites, out of Egypt’ ” (Exodus 3:10, ERV). Again, as we see in this verse, God calls the Israelites “my people.”

For sure, God gave Moses a big job! Moses answered with a question: “ ‘Who am I to go to Pharaoh and bring the people of Israel out of Egypt?’ ” (Exodus 3:11, NLV). Moses understands what is about to happen. He understands what part he has in God’s plan. So, he wonders why God would choose him to do this important work. This question shows us early in the story who Moses is. He has no pride in his heart. He doesn’t feel that he is good enough to do what God asks him to do.

`Why must our hearts be empty of all pride? How does a heart with no pride help us to do the work that God asks us to do, as His followers?`