---
title:  The Name Of The Lord
date:   08/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 3:13–22. Why did Moses want to know God’s name? What does God’s name show us about Himself?`

God tells Moses that He is “ ’ehejeh ’asher ’ehejeh,” which means “I will be who I will be,” or “I Am Who I Am.” In Exodus 3:12, God uses the same word “ ’ehejeh,” in verse 14, when he says to Moses, “I will be” with you. What do these words tell us about God? God is everlasting. He gives life to everything. This same God promises to “ ‘live with those [people] who are sorry for their sins and have turned from them and are not proud’ ” (Isaiah 57:15, NLV).

From the beginning, God’s people knew Him as “Yahweh.” This name often is written as “the Lordord” in the English language. The Israelites may not have known the deeper meaning of this name for God. Moses also knew the name Yahweh. But he, too, didn’t know the real meaning. So, that’s why when Moses asks the Lord, “What is Your name?” he is really asking the Lord to explain its deeper meaning.

In Exodus 6:3, the Bible gives us a helpful hint about the meaning of God’s name. In this verse, God says, “ ‘I appeared to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob by the name, God All-Powerful. But they did not know me by my name, the Lord’ ” (Exodus 6:3, ICB). God is not saying that Adam, Noah, Abraham, and the other fathers of God’s people didn’t know the name “Yahweh” (read Genesis 2:4, 9; Genesis 4:1, 26; Genesis 7:5; Genesis 15:6–8, and so on). God is saying that these men didn’t know the full meaning of His name.

God’s name, Yahweh, shows us that He is the personal God of His people. He is the God of the Promise. He is a loving, caring God who helps His people when they are in trouble. The name Yahweh also shows us that God is the Almighty God (Genesis 17:1). His miracles show His power to save. But Yahweh is a God who shows His power with His love and care for His people. Yahweh is the same God as Elohim (“mighty, strong, the God above everything.” Yahweh is the “God of all people.” He controls heaven and earth. He made everything.) At the same time, the name Yahweh shows us different parts of His relationship with humans.

What does it mean to know God’s name? God’s name is not a magic word. Our knowing His name is an announcement to other people that we believe He will save everyone who comes to Him in faith (Joel 2:32).