---
title:  Four Excuses
date:   09/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Exodus 4:1–17. What set of signs did God give to Moses to show Pharaoh, the king of Egypt? How did these signs help convince everyone that God was with Moses?`

Moses again tries to excuse himself from doing the job God asked him to do (read Exodus 3:10, 11). Moses didn’t want to go to Egypt to challenge Pharaoh. Moses already failed when he tried to help the Hebrews on his own. His own people didn’t believe in him or accept him as their leader. So, he came up with a third excuse: “ ‘What if the people of Israel do not believe me or listen to me? What if they say, “The Lord did not appear to you”?’ ” (Exodus 4:1, ICB). Moses isn’t asking these questions to learn something new. Moses is trying to say “No” to the job God wants him to do.

God gives Moses two miracles to do in front of Israel’s leaders, and then, later, Pharaoh. The first miracle is Moses’ walking stick that turns into a snake and then back into a stick. The second miracle is that Moses’ hand becomes white with leprosy. Leprosy is a terrible skin disease. Then Moses’ hand is healed in an instant. Both miracles should convince the leaders that God is at work for them. But if they refuse to believe, God adds a third miracle: Moses will turn water into blood (Exodus 4:8, 9).

After God gives Moses these mighty signs, Moses makes a fourth excuse: he isn’t a good talker.

`Read the story in Exodus 4:10–18. How does the Lord answer Moses? What lessons can we learn from this story to help us in whatever work the Lord asks us to do?`

Moses makes four excuses. These excuses show us that Moses didn’t want to do what God asked. Moses uses four reasons to say no to God. These reasons are just excuses to get out of doing the work. The first three excuses are questions: (1) “Who am I?” (2) “Who are You?” (3) “What if they do not believe me?” The fourth excuse is the announcement: “I am not a good talker.” God answered all Moses’ excuses and gave a powerful promise to help him. But Moses didn’t want to do it. Then Moses asks God to send someone else (Exodus 4:13). God tells Moses that He is already sending his brother Aaron to meet him and give him support. Finally, Moses has no more excuses and agrees to go. He asks Jethro for his blessing. Then Moses goes to Egypt.