---
title:  The Sign Of God’s Promise
date:   10/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read the story in Exodus 4:18–31. How do we understand this strange story? What can we learn from this lesson?`

Bible students are surprised when they read this verse: “On the way to Egypt, Moses stopped at a place to spend the night. The Lordord met Moses at that place and tried to kill him” (Exodus 4:24, ERV). What is going on here? Didn’t God just ask Moses to work for Him? Why is God now trying to kill Moses? The story helps us to understand that the problem is about circumcision. Circumcision is the act of cutting the skin off the tip of the male sex parts. This act showed that the Israelite men accepted God’s Promise. The problem was that Moses didn’t circumcise or cut the skin off the tip of the sex parts of his youngest son after he was born to show that he belonged to God (Genesis 17:10, 11).

Moses was the leader of God’s people. So, he needed to obey God in everything. Then he could teach other people to obey God, too. Moses’ wife, Zipporah, moved quickly to save her husband’s life. She circumcised her son or cut the tip off his sex parts. Zipporah touched Moses with the blood-covered skin. This blood is a symbol for Jesus’ blood, His life, and His Promise.

We can learn an important lesson from this story: always do what is right.

“On the way from Midian, Moses got a terrible warning that showed him that the Lord wasn’t happy with him. An angel appeared to Moses and frightened him. Moses thought the angel wanted to destroy him. God didn’t explain to Moses what was happening. But Moses remembered that He didn’t do something God asked. . . . Moses didn’t circumcise his youngest son. Circumcision was necessary, or Moses’ son couldn’t get the blessings from God’s Promise with Israel. If Moses didn’t circumcise his son, then the people wouldn’t respect God’s law. Zipporah was afraid that the angel would kill her husband. So, she cut off the skin from her son’s sex parts. Moses would be in terrible danger when he went to visit Pharaoh. God’s angels saved Moses from death. But if Moses refused to do something God asked, then he wouldn’t be safe. God’s angels couldn’t protect him from danger.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 255, 256, adapted.