---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   11/07/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Moses,” pages 251–256, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

For sure, the burning bush story changed Moses’ life. All the other experiences in his life depended on his obedient answer to God’s call for Moses to serve Him. Moses must obey God in everything. God chose Moses to lead the Hebrews out of Egypt and to the Promised Land.

Sure, we know how the story ends. But imagine in your mind that you are Moses at the burning bush. Moses ran away from Egypt to save his life. Then 40 years later, many Hebrew people were alive who didn’t know much about Moses or who he was. Or maybe what they heard was wrong. But now God wanted him to lead this same people away from a powerful king. No wonder Moses didn’t want to do the job!

Yes, the job was very hard. Again, think what Moses would have missed if he told God a final “No.” Then Moses might have disappeared into history instead of helping Israel escape slavery in Egypt. Moses became one of the most powerful and important people in the Bible and on the earth that anyone has ever known.

**Discussion Questions:**

`In the quiet years in the desert, Moses did what God asked him to do: he was a good family man. He took care of sheep. He wrote two Bible books with the Holy Spirit’s help. Then God asked Moses to be the leader of His people. What does Moses’ experience teach us about our duty in life?`

`We may say that we understand why Moses made many excuses. “Why should people believe me?” “Who am I? I’m not an important person.” “I’m not a good speaker.” What will change in your life if you trust God to help you do the things He asks us to do?`

`Moses wrote the book of Genesis. The book of Genesis helps us to understand Bible history and God’s plan to save sinners. Why must we reject any idea that says that the book of Genesis (mostly its first 11 chapters) is make believe?`