---
title: 'Jesus Helps People In Need'
date: 10/08/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Luke 1:46–55; Luke 4:16–21; Matthew 12:15–21; Matthew 21:12–16; Isaiah 53:3–6.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘The Spirit of the Lord is on me. He has chosen me to tell good news to the poor. He sent me to tell prisoners that they are free and to tell the blind that they can see again. He sent me to free those [people] who have been treated badly [hurt by other people] and to announce that the time has come for the Lord to show his kindness [loving care]’ ” (Luke 4:18, 19, ERV).

JESUS came to show us who God is. Jesus’ teachings show us God. So does His death on the cross. He showed us God by the way He lived. Many things Jesus did made real changes in other people’s lives.

God’s special messengers, His prophets, wrote about Jesus’ life and His work. Jesus Himself told His people about the work He came to do (Luke 4). Jesus cared for the poor. He helped people who were hurt by their leaders. Jesus showed the people love. The Old Testament prophets did these same things too. 

But the religious leaders in Jesus’ day did not feel the same way about the poor. They feared Jesus. They were afraid He would take away their power. So, the leaders arrested Jesus. They put Him to death. Jesus’ death on the cross shows us that sin is very evil. But Jesus woke up from the dead. He won the war against sin. He saved us. His waking up from the dead gave us everlasting life.

*Jesus’ waking up from the dead gave us everlasting life.*