---
title: 'Mary S Song'
date: 11/08/2019
---

Make a picture of this story in your mind: the angel Gabriel comes to Mary. He tells her she will be the mother of Jesus, God’s own Son! Mary does not tell anyone. She goes to visit her cousin Elizabeth. Elizabeth is soon going to have a baby too. This baby is a miracle because Elizabeth is an old woman. The Holy Spirit tells Elizabeth about Mary’s baby before Mary says anything about it. Together, these women celebrate God’s promises to them.

`Read Luke 1:46–55. Do you see that Mary praises God in these verses? She says, “ ‘Yes, the Powerful One has done great things for me’ ” (Luke 1:49, ERV). Why should our worship of God include praises to Him? Why should we thank Him for both the big things and the little things?`

Mary’s song is beautiful. Mary is filled with thankfulness to God. She has seen God work in her life. But she also is aware of God’s bigger plan for her people and for all humans.

Mary understands that God loves to show His people mercy. He cares very much for poor people. God also cares about people that no one thinks are important. Soon after the angel tells Mary the good news about Jesus, she starts praising God. She sings, “ ‘He has taken rulers down from their thrones. He has put those [people] who are in a place that is not important to a place that is important. He has filled those [people] who are hungry with good things. He has sent the rich people away with nothing’ ” (Luke 1:52, 53, NLV).

Luke 1:43 tells us that Jesus is the Lord. But Jesus is not the same as other leaders. Jesus’ kingdom is different from the kingdoms on this earth too. In Jesus’ kingdom, rich and powerful people are not the most important people. In Jesus’ kingdom, God lifts up the poor and the needy. He fills them “with good things” (Luke 1:53, NLV).

`The church shows us who God is and the love that is in God’s heart. We also can learn about God’s kingdom from Mary’s song. How well does the church show us the kingdom that Mary sings about?`

*The angel Gabriel tells Mary that she will be the mother of Jesus, God’s own Son.*