---
title: 'Jesus Announces The Work He Will Do'
date: 12/08/2019
---

Jesus includes Isaiah 61:1, 2 in His first public sermon in Luke 4:16–21. Jesus’ sermon is short. When Jesus is done, He says, “ ‘While you heard me reading these words just now, they were coming true!’ ” (Luke 4:21, ERV). 

Jesus includes Isaiah 61:1, 2 in His sermon to help the Jews understand His work. Jesus’ sermon is another way of explaining what Mary said about Jesus 30 years earlier in her song. We see from Jesus’ sermon that both the poor and hurting people are important to Jesus. He brings His Good News to them.

In His sermon, Jesus says the verses in Isaiah 61 help to explain His special work on earth. Yes, Jesus’ work for God was spiritual. But His work also included making people’s lives better. Jesus wanted to show that our spiritual lives and our everyday lives are not as separate as many people think. Jesus wants our help in His plan to save people. He wants us to help Him take care of people too.

`Compare Luke 4:16–21 with Luke 7:18–23. In these verses, why do you think Jesus answered John the Baptist’s followers the way He did? If someone asks you about why Jesus is the Savior, how will you answer? What answer will you give for why you believe Jesus is God?`

Jesus sent out His followers to do His work on earth. He told them to announce that “ ‘ “God’s kingdom is now very near” ’ ” (Matthew 10:7, ERV). Jesus also told His followers to “ ‘Heal the sick. Bring the dead back to life. Heal the people who have leprosy [bad skin diseases]. And force demons out of people. I give you these powers freely, so help others freely’ ” (Matthew 10:8, ERV). Jesus wanted the work that His followers did to show the important rules of His kingdom. Jesus’ followers worked with Jesus to invite other people to join His kingdom. Jesus’ followers lifted up the people who were not important in other people’s eyes. Jesus’ followers lifted up the people who were poor and lost.

`We must preach the Three Angels’ Messages to the people on this earth. Why must we always remember this important duty while we take care of the needs of the poor?`

*Poor and hurting people are important to Jesus.*