---
title:  JESUS STOPS THE BUYING IN THE TEMPLE
date:   14/08/2019
---

What are some of your favorite stories about Jesus in the Bible? Do you like best the stories about how Jesus heals people? What about the stories that show Jesus’ love for children? Or do you like reading Jesus’ sermons the best? Or maybe you enjoy most what Jesus has to say about saving people and about God’s kingdom? All these stories show us the gentle and caring side of Jesus. But there also are stories about Jesus that show Him taking strong action against wrong practices. One example is the time that Jesus stops the people from buying and selling in the temple.

`Read about the story of Jesus clearing out the temple in Matthew 21:12–16; Mark 11:15–19; Luke 19:45–48; and John 2:13–17. Do you see that all four writers include this story about Jesus in their books? What does that tell us about this story? How important do you think it must be?`

This story is very powerful. Clearly, Jesus cared about the temple and worship. He was sad when His people replaced true worship with selling animals. Those animals were a word picture for Jesus’ own death on the cross. But the people selling the animals did not remember that. They cared more about making money.

Jesus is doing the same work in this story that God’s special messengers did in the Old Testament. Jesus is trying to change things for the better. He wants to turn the people back to God and true worship. Do you see that Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John write the words of Isaiah, Jeremiah, or Psalms in their stories about Jesus clearing out the temple? That is because Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John want to show people that Jesus is doing the work of one of God’s prophets. Prophets are special messengers. The people in the temple see that Jesus is a prophet (read Matthew 21:11). They come to Him after He chases the businessmen and bankers out of the temple. What does Jesus do after He chases these men away? He heals the sick and teaches the people. The people feel hope grow in their hearts as Jesus teaches them. The religious leaders see that Jesus is a prophet too. But the leaders are afraid that Jesus will end their power. So, they want to kill Jesus. That is just what the leaders in the Old Testament did to the prophets in their day.

*Jesus stops people from buying and selling in the temple.*