---
title: 'The Cross Of Jesus'
date: 15/08/2019
---

God cares about the poor. He hears their cries. That thought gives us comfort. Here is another wonderful thought. God the Father understands the worst that humans can do to each other. Our Father in heaven felt Jesus’ pain on the cross. So, He knows that this earth can be a very evil place that is not fair at all. Just look at what happened to Jesus. Jesus lived a holy life. He did good and showed people love. But evil people hated Him and killed Him. They killed Him because they were jealous of Him.

Make a picture in your mind of Jesus praying in the Garden of Gethsemane. It is night. Soon, evil men will arrest Him. Then He will stand in court. Mean men will judge Him. Jesus will be beaten. Soldiers will make fun of Him. Paul tells us, “He gave up his place with God and made himself nothing. He was born as a man and became like [the same as] a servant. And when he was living as a man, he humbled [became the same as a servant] himself and was fully obedient to God. He obeyed even when that caused his death—death on a cross” (Philippians 2:7, 8, ICB). The story about God’s plan to save us is beautiful. But we must remember it has ugly parts too. People were very mean and full of hate. They hurt Jesus and were not fair to Him.

`Read Isaiah 53:3–6. What do these verses tell us about what happened to Jesus? Jesus was innocent. But He died for the guilty. How does this idea help us understand better what He did for us on the cross?`

In Jesus, God knows how it feels to be someone who is hurt by evil people who are not fair. People get upset about an innocent man getting killed. But how should we feel when we think about what happened to Jesus? Jesus died to make us one with God again. Jesus’ death allowed God to join Himself to us in our weakness. That is why God can understand our weaknesses and help us. So, we cannot doubt His pity, love, and mercy to us. “Jesus, our high priest [religious leader], is able to understand our weaknesses. When Jesus lived on earth, he was tempted [Satan tried to get Jesus to sin] in every way. He was tempted in the same ways we are tempted, but he never sinned” (Hebrews 4:15, ERV). Wow! Look at everything Jesus did for us! Truly, He shows us how much God loves us.

*In Jesus, God knows how it feels to be someone who is hurt by evil people who are not fair.*