---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 16/08/2019
---

**Additional thought**

Ellen G. White, “In the Footsteps of the Master,” pages 117–124, in Welfare Ministry; “Days of Ministry,” pages 29–50, in The Ministry of Healing; “The Temple Cleansed Again,” pages 589–600; “In Pilate’s Judgment Hall,” pages 723–740, in The Desire of Ages. 

“God clearly shows us in the Bible that He will punish the people who break His law. Some people do not really believe this Bible truth. They think God is too full of mercy to punish the sinner. But these same people need to look at the cross of Calvary. The death of the innocent Son of God shows us that ‘when people sin, they earn what sin pays—death’ [Romans 6:23, ERV]. Every time we break God’s law, we must pay the price—death. But Jesus, who did not sin, became sin for us. He accepted the guilt of our sin on Himself. His Father hid His face from His Son when that happened. That broke Jesus’ heart. It crushed His life. Jesus made Himself an offering for our sins to save us. There was no other way for God to free us from the punishment of breaking His law. Every person who refuses to accept Jesus’ death on the cross must die for his own sins.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between God and Satan], pages 539, 540, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Read the Ellen G. White statement above. Talk with your class about how people on this earth are not fair. Think about Jesus who was innocent and who paid the price for the guilty! Why must we always remember this truth?`

`2.	Think about everything that the Father did to save us. He sent Jesus to this earth to die for us. Jesus was innocent. But He died for sinners anyway. That means He died for each one of us. Why should Jesus’ death on the cross for us make us new people? How does He make us new?`

*“Some people . . . think God is too full of mercy to punish the sinner. But these same people need to look at the cross of Calvary.”*