---
title:  How Jesus Loved People We Don’t Think Are Important
date:   11/02/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Luke 4:16–19; James 1:27; Leviticus 23:22; Matthew 19:16–22; Luke 19:1–10; Job 1:8.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘Then the King will say to those [holy people] who are at his right side, “Come! My Father has blessed you. The kingdom was made ready for you when the world [skies and earth] was first made. Come into it now” ’ ” (Matthew 25:34, WE).

The Bible often talks about strangers, the fatherless, and widows. Many people may think these persons are not very important. But Jesus cares for the “ ‘ “least [less] important of these brothers and sisters” ’ ” (Matthew 25:40, NIrV). Jesus says the strangers, the fatherless, and widows are His own.

Who are these people today? In Bible times, some strangers left home because of war or because there was no food. Today, the strangers are often the poor around us who lost their homes because bad things happened to them. The fatherless are orphans who have lost their fathers because of war, accidents, or sickness. This group may include children whose fathers are in prison or who are missing. We can do so many things to help the people in this group. Widows are women with husbands who have died. Many widows are single parents. They can use help from the church, too.

We are God’s managers. We must follow Jesus’ example and obey His commands. So, we must help the poor. We must help the strangers, the fatherless, and the widows, too.