---
title:  The Life and Work of Jesus
date:   12/02/2023
---

When Jesus first started His work, He traveled to Nazareth in Galilee. Nazareth was Jesus’ hometown. The local people there already knew about Jesus’ work and His miracles. On the Sabbath, Jesus went to the Jewish church. Someone gave Jesus the book of Isaiah and asked Him to read. Jesus read from Isaiah 61:1, 2.

`Read Luke 4:16–19. Compare it with Isaiah 61:1, 2. Why do you think Jesus chose to read Isaiah 61:1, 2 that Sabbath? What do these verses teach us about the promised Savior, God’s Chosen One? What do these verses teach us about the work the Savior will do? (Read also Luke 7:19–23.)`

The religious leaders paid no attention to the verses in Isaiah 53 that talk about a suffering Savior. The religious leaders only were interested in the promises about God’s kingdom. The leaders taught everyone to expect those promises to happen at the First Coming. (Their mistake should help us to remember that we must be careful to understand what the Bible really says and means.) So, most of the people in Jesus’ day believed a false idea about the Savior’s work. The people thought that the Savior was coming to free Israel from the Romans. But Jesus told them that Isaiah 61:1, 2 showed the Savior’s work. Jesus, the Savior, came to work for the poor. This news must have been a real shock of surprise for the Jewish people!

Tax collectors, businessmen, and rich Jews often didn’t like the poor. Many Jews felt that God cursed the poor. These Jews blamed the poor for having no money or land. Few people cared for the poor or their needs.

Jesus loved the poor. His love is powerful proof that He is the Savior. Look at how Jesus answers John the Baptist’s question when John asks Jesus if He is the promised Savior (read Matthew 11:1–6). Jesus’ answer shows that He cares so much for the poor. “John the Baptist didn’t understand about Jesus’ kingdom. John expected Jesus to sit on David’s throne. John felt worried and confused when Jesus didn’t try to become king.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 215, adapted.

`How should James 1:27 help us understand what God asks of us?`