---
title:  God Provides for the Poor
date:   13/02/2023
---

Many Bible writers include God’s commands for taking care of the poor, the strangers, widows, and orphans in their books. God gave Moses this special command that talks about the poor: “ ‘Plant seeds, harvest your crops, and work the ground for six years. But the seventh year must be a special time of rest for the land. Don’t plant anything in your fields. If any crops grow there, allow the poor to have it. And allow the wild animals to eat the food that is left. You should do the same with your vineyards [grape fields] and with your fields of olive trees’ ” (Exodus 23:10, 11, ERV).

`Read Leviticus 23:22 and Deuteronomy 15:11. What important rules can we learn from these verses?`

As we already saw, Jesus says the poor are “ ‘brothers and sisters of mine’ ” (Matthew 25:40, NIrV). The Psalms tell us what we should do for people in need: “Defend the poor and orphans. Protect the rights of [the things that by law belong to] the poor. Help those who are poor and helpless. Save them from those who are evil” (Psalm 82:3, 4, ERV). This verse shows us that we must give poor people more than just food. We also must stand against the ones who hurt the poor or are not fair to them.

God promises to bless the ones who help the needy. “Whoever gives to the poor will have plenty. Whoever refuses to help them will get nothing but curses” (Proverbs 28:27, ERV). “If a king judges the poor fairly [in a fair way], he will rule [control his kingdom] for a long time” (Proverbs 29:14, ERV). King David said, “Those [people] who help the poor succeed will get many blessings. When trouble comes, the Lord will save them” (Psalm 41:1, ERV).

In modern times, some thinkers said it was wrong to help poor people. The thinkers used science and nature to excuse their evil behavior. They argued that weak things in nature die. Only the strong live. So, when we help the poor, the poor will have weak and sick babies. These babies will make a country weak. This thinking is mean and nasty. These ideas come from replacing Bible truth with false science.

`Jesus died for everyone. What does this Bible truth teach us about why we should show love and kindness to all people?`