---
title:  The Rich Young Leader
date:   14/02/2023
---

We don’t know much about the rich young man who came to Jesus. We know he was young, had a lot of money, and was a leader. He was interested in spiritual things, too. This young man had so much energy! He didn’t just come to Jesus. He ran to Jesus! The young man was excited to learn more about everlasting life. This story is so important that we can read about it in three books of the Bible: Matthew 19:16–22; Mark 10:17–22; and Luke 18:18–23.

`Read about the rich young leader in Matthew 19:16–22. Why does Jesus say to the young man, “ ‘If you want to be perfect, then go and sell all that you own. Give the money to the poor, and you will have riches in heaven. Then come and follow me!’ ” (Matthew 19:21, ERV)?`

Jesus doesn’t ask most of us to sell everything we own and give the money to the poor. But money must have been very important to this young man, the same as an idol or statue of a false god. Jesus’ answer may seem tough to us. But Jesus knew that this young man’s only chance of being saved was to sell everything he owned and give the money to the poor.

The Bible says the young man went away very sad because he was very rich. We can see that the young man loved his money very much. Jesus offered the young man everlasting life. Jesus also invited the young man to join His close group of followers. How do we know this? Jesus said to him, “Come, follow Me.” These words are the same ones Jesus said to His 12 followers. But we never hear about this young man again. Why? He traded everlasting life for all the treasures and riches he had in this life.

This young man made a terrible choice! He did not want to give up his riches and follow Jesus. Riches may give us happiness now. But God will judge us by our behavior and everything we did in this life. So, we want to make good choices now. Then we will be ready to meet Him. Many rich people discover that their riches didn’t give them the peace and happiness they hoped for. Ecclesiastes shows us that riches do not make us happy. Money can’t “buy” us peace or happiness. (Read Ecclesiastes 5:13.)

`In Mark 8:35–37, Jesus says you must “‘give up your life for me and for the Good News’ ” (Mark 8:35, ERV). What does Jesus mean?`