---
title:  Zacchaeus
date:   15/02/2023
---

Zacchaeus was a rich Jew. He made a lot of money working as a tax collector for the Romans. The Jews hated the Romans. So, the Jews hated Zacchaeus, too. The Jews also hated Zacchaeus and other tax collectors because they collected more taxes from the people than was fair. That’s why the people called Zacchaeus a sinner.

Zacchaeus lived in Jericho. Jericho was a busy city. Many people did business there. Jesus and Zacchaeus didn’t meet by chance. Zacchaeus wanted to make some changes in his life. He heard about Jesus and wanted to see Him. Zacchaeus heard that Jesus was on His way to Jericho that very day! Jesus needed to pass through Jericho from Galilee on His final trip to Jerusalem. Jesus’ first words to Zacchaeus show us that Jesus knew all about Zacchaeus before He entered the town.

`Read the story about Zacchaeus in Luke 19:1–10. How is Zacchaeus’s story different from the story about the rich young man?`

Zacchaeus and the rich young man were the same in some ways. Both men were rich. Both men wanted to see Jesus. Both men wanted everlasting life. But they think about money in different ways.

Do you see that Zacchaeus says he will give half of everything he owns to the poor (Luke 19:8)? Jesus accepted this offer. Zacchaeus’s offer shows us that he is a changed man. Jesus doesn’t say to Zacchaeus, “Sorry, Zac, but you have to give Me everything, just as I asked the rich young leader. I won’t accept half.” No, Jesus doesn’t say this at all. Why not? Because Zacchaeus doesn’t worship his money. Sure, Zacchaeus likes his money, but money is not his idol. An idol is a statue of a false god. Jesus doesn’t need to tell Zacchaeus to give half his money to the poor. Zacchaeus tells Jesus that he will give an offering to the poor. But Jesus must tell the rich young leader to give up everything. If he didn’t do this, his riches would destroy him. Sure, Zacchaeus needed to be careful about the dangers of money. But he controlled his money problem better than the rich young ruler did.