---
title:  “ ‘have You Thought About My Servant Job?’ ”
date:   16/02/2023
---

`Read God’s words about Job in Job 1:8. What does God say about him?`

God says that Job is “ ‘without blame [does no wrong; is perfect], a man who is right [obeys God’s law] and good’ ” (Job 1:8, NLV). Wow! Job is so perfect and good that no one else on the earth at that time is as good as Job. This praise of Job comes straight from God.

Job has many terrible experiences. After all these disasters, God says again what He first said about Job. There is no one on earth the same as Job. Job is perfect and good. Then God adds some new information. Job “ ‘honors God and stays away from evil. You [Satan] caused me [God] to ruin [allow evil things to happen to] him [Job] for no good reason. But he [Job] continues to be without blame’ ” (Job 2:3, ICB).

Soon after, Job’s wife says these awful words to her husband: “ ‘Are you still holding on to your faith? Why don’t you just curse God and die!’ ” (Job 2:9, ERV). For sure, Job felt very hurt because of what his wife said. But then we learn something more about Job that shows us who he was before all these bad things started to happen to him.

`Read Job 29:12–16. What do these verses show us about Job and who he really is?`

Job says, “ ‘I was like a father to the poor. I helped people I didn’t even know win their case in court’ ” (Job 29:16, ERV). What does this verse show us? Job didn’t wait for needy people to ask him for help. Job went looking for people in need. Then he did everything he could to help them.

Ellen G. White says, “Don’t wait for the poor to tell you what they need. Do what Job did. He searched for needy and poor people to help. Go do the same thing. Learn what people need and figure out the best way to help them.”—Testimonies for the Church, volume 5, page 151, adapted.

`Read Isaiah 58:6–8. How can we follow the Bible truth in these verses today?`