---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   17/02/2023
---

“Jesus is the Son of Man. When He comes, all the holy angels will be with Him. At that time, Jesus will sit on His throne. All people will stand in front of Him. Then Jesus will separate all the people into two groups. Jesus explained this future happening to His followers on the Mountain of Olives. Jesus wanted His followers to understand how God will judge His people. When the people stand before God, there will be only two groups. God’s final decision will depend on what they have done for the poor and the suffering. What we do for poor and suffering people, we do the same for Jesus. What we fail to do for the poor and suffering, we also fail to do for Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 637, adapted.

“Jesus has many suffering and needy followers. When you open your homes to His needy ones, you welcome angels into your home. You can’t see these angels. But they are your companions. These angels bring joy and peace. The angels come with praise on their lips. Angels in heaven hear the angels on earth praise God. Then the angels in heaven praise God, too. Every time someone shows mercy to another person, the angels make music in heaven. The Father on His throne sees every unselfish act that His workers do. These workers are part of God’s most precious treasures.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 639, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`Some people use the first part of Deuteronomy 15:11 as an excuse not to help the poor. They say, “Well, God said in Deuteronomy 15:11 that poor people will always be with us. So, that’s normal. Why should I bother helping the poor when nothing will change?” What’s wrong with this thinking? (Read the second part of Deuteronomy 15:11 to answer the question.)`

`Read what Paul says about riches in 1 Timothy 6:17–19. Do you see what the danger from riches is? Paul warns us not to trust in riches. We must trust in the living God. Why do so many people trust in their riches when all their money won’t help them stay alive? Why must we all be careful to trust only in the living God?`