---
title:  Paul Becomes a Christian
date:   28/07/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 26:9–11; Deuteronomy 21:23; Acts 9:1–20; 1 Corinthians 9:1.  

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘Go! I have chosen Saul for an important work. I want him to tell other nations, their rulers, and the people of Israel about me’ ” (Acts 9:15, ERV).

ONE OF THE MOST AMAZING STORIES in the history of the New Testament church is the story about how Paul became a Christian. Paul is not the only enemy of the church who later became a Christian. But what makes Paul’s story so important and amazing are the many places he went to share the Good News about Jesus and the miracles that happened. Paul had been one of the strongest attackers of the church. He could have hurt the growing church very much. Paul wanted to destroy the church, and the Jewish leaders supported him. But then, on the road to Damascus, Paul chose to accept God’s plan for him and to become God’s most important apostle. Apostles were the men Jesus chose to lead the church after He went back to heaven. “Paul was one of the worst attackers of the Christian church. But later, Paul became its strongest protector. Paul also had more success than any other apostle in the work of sharing the Good News with other people.”—Ellen G. White, Sketches from the Life of Paul, page 9, adapted. 

Paul’s attacks against the church in the past always made him feel that he was not worthy to work for Jesus. But God’s forgiveness filled Paul with thankfulness. Paul’s change of heart changed the Christian religion forever.