---
title:  Paul Attacks The Church
date:   29/07/2018
---

Paul was a Greek-speaking Jew. He was born in Tarsus. Tarsus was the capital city of Cilicia (Acts 21:39). Paul went to Jerusalem to study with Gamaliel (Acts 22:3). Gamaliel was the most important teacher at the time. Paul was a Pharisee. Pharisees were a group of Jewish religious leaders. They followed the law very carefully. As a Pharisee, Paul sometimes went too far in doing what he believed was right (Galatians 1:14). That is the reason why Paul helped kill Stephen. Then Paul became the leader in the attacks on the church after Stephen’s death. 

`Read Acts 26:9–11. As these verses show us, how does Paul describe his actions against the church?`

In 1 Corinthians 1:23, Paul says the Good News about Jesus made the Jews “stumble.” Why? Because the Good News did not match their idea about who a Savior should be. The Jews wanted a king who would free them from the Romans. Many Jews could not accept the picture of a Savior dying on a cross. The Bible says that anyone who hangs on a cross is under God’s curse (Deuteronomy 21:23). So, the Jews thought Jesus’ death was proof He was not the Savior.

Acts 9:1, 2 shows Saul of Tarsus harming believers. Paul wanted to go to Damascus. It was an important city, about 135 miles north of Jerusalem. Many Jews lived in Damascus. Jews living in cites outside Judea continued to communicate with Jerusalem. Jerusalem was the center of the Jewish religion. The Sanhedrin was the Jewish ruling group in Jerusalem. The center of the Jewish cities were the synagogues. Synagogues were Jewish “churches.” Communication between Jerusalem and these synagogues happened often, mostly in letters. These letters were carried by a “shaliah.” The word shaliah means “a person who is sent.” A shaliah was someone chosen by the Sanhedrin to do a special job. Paul asked the president of the Sanhedrin for letters to take to the synagogue in Damascus. So, Paul was a shaliah. These letters gave him the power to arrest any Christians and bring them to Jerusalem (read also Acts 26:12). In Greek, the word for shaliah is “apostolos.” From this Greek word we get the word “apostles.” Apostles were the men Jesus chose to lead the church after He went back to heaven. So, before Paul became Jesus’ apostle, Paul was an apostle for the Sanhedrin.