---
title:  On The Damascus Road
date:   30/07/2018
---

`Read Acts 9:3–9. What do these verses say happens when Paul is on his way to Damascus? What is the meaning of Jesus’ words to Paul in Acts 9:5 (read also Acts 26:14)?`

Paul and his friends were near Damascus when something happened they did not expect. They saw a bright light from heaven and heard a voice speak. Paul and his friends did not dream this experience. They lived it. God meant this experience for Paul, not his friends. Paul’s friends saw the light. But the light blinded only Paul. Paul’s friends heard the voice. But only Paul understood what the voice said. The light was glory from Jesus. Jesus appeared to Paul on the road (Acts 22:14). Later, Paul writes in his letters about how he saw Jesus. This experience made Paul the same as the Twelve followers of Jesus, who said they saw Jesus alive after He died. 

Paul talked with Jesus. That talk with Jesus was more powerful for Paul than seeing the light was. Paul believed that he did God’s work by fighting the followers of Jesus. He felt he protected the Jewish religion from false beliefs. But then on the road to Damascus, Paul learned that Jesus was alive. Paul also learned that when he fought Jesus’ followers, he fought Jesus Himself.

Jesus said these words of wisdom to Paul: “ ‘You are only hurting yourself by fighting me’ ” (Acts 26:14). For sure, Paul knew these words of wisdom very well. These wise words come from a word picture of an ox trying to move against the sharp stick a farmer used to move the ox. When that happened, the animal only hurt itself even more. 

These wise words may point to a fight in Paul’s mind. The Bible names this fight the work of the Holy Spirit (John 16:8–11). This fight may have started when Stephen was killed. “Saul had a big part in the trial of Stephen. Paul helped make the decision to put Stephen to death. But Saul saw proof that God was with Stephen. This proof led Saul to feel unsure about his attacks against Jesus’ followers. Saul’s mind was deeply moved. He was confused. So, he went to the people that he trusted. These were people who were wise and had good sense. In the end, these religious leaders and rulers convinced Saul that Stephen was speaking against God and that Jesus was a false Savior.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 112, 113, adapted.