---
title:  Ananias’s Visit
date:   31/07/2018
---

When Saul knows he talks with Jesus Himself, Saul asks the question Jesus needs him to ask: “ ‘Lord, what should I do?’ ” (Acts 22:10, NLV). Saul’s question shows us what is in Saul’s heart. He is sorry for fighting against Jesus. More important, Saul’s question shows he is willing to let Jesus guide his life from now on. Jesus tells Saul to go to Damascus and wait there until he is told what to do. 

In Acts 9:10–19, the Bible shows us how the Lord worked to get Saul of Tarsus ready for his new life as Paul the apostle. An apostle was a leader and teacher chosen by Jesus to lead the church in New Testament times. So, what did Jesus do to get Saul ready? First, Jesus gave Ananias a vision. In this vision, Jesus told Ananias to visit Saul and lay his hands on him to give him back his sight. Ananias already knew who Saul was. Ananias also knew that many believers suffered and even died because of Saul. Ananias also knew the reason why Saul was in Damascus. So, we can easily understand why Ananias did not really want to go meet Saul. 

But what Ananias did not know was that Saul had a personal meeting with Jesus that changed his life forever. Ananias did not know that Saul no longer worked for the Jewish leaders. Ananias was very shocked and surprised to learn that Jesus asked Saul to work for Him. Jesus chose Saul to be the person to take the Good News to both the Jews and the non-Jews everywhere.

`Read Galatians 1:1, 11, 12. What does Paul say about his work as an apostle?`

In Galatians, Paul says that no human gave him his message or made him an apostle. But Jesus Himself gave Paul his message. When Ananias comes to visit Saul, Ananias says again what Jesus already told Paul about the work the Lord gave Paul to do as His apostle. The change in Saul’s life is so amazing that only God could have changed his heart. God’s power is the only explanation for why the one who fought Jesus the most becomes His most loving apostle. 

`We see Saul’s heart change. How does Paul’s change of heart give you hope for the people you pray for who act as if they have no interest in serving God?`