---
title:  Paul Starts To Work For God
date:   01/08/2018
---

Acts 9:19–25 hints that Paul may have stayed in Damascus for a while before going back to Jerusalem (Acts 9:26). But in Galatians 1:17, Paul adds that before he goes to Jerusalem, he goes to Arabia. There, Paul lives alone for some time. “Here, Paul was alone in the desert. He had lots of time to think about God and to study.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 125, adapted. 

`Read Acts 9:20–25. What does Luke tell us about Paul’s work for God in Damascus? What success does Paul experience?`

Paul’s went to Damascus to arrest Christians who hid in the city in Jewish synagogues (Acts 9:2). Synagogues are Jewish “churches” or places of worship. But now Paul’s reasons for going to Damascus changed. He went to the synagogues, but it was not to arrest Jesus’ followers. Now Paul went to the synagogues to help other Jews accept Jesus. Think about what people must have thought when they saw and heard Paul! Here was the same man who arrested Christians and killed them. Now, he was preaching about Jesus! What could these believers do? They were shocked and amazed about Saul of Tarsus and his change. Luke tells us “the Jews living in Damascus wondered about Saul’s preaching” (Acts 9:22, NLV). (Clearly, no one in the church has any idea about how much power Paul will have in the future in bringing other people to Jesus.)

Paul’s attackers cannot argue with his message. So, some of Paul’s attackers decide to kill him. Paul writes about their plan to end his life (2 Corinthians 11:32, 33). Paul’s story about what happens shows us that Paul’s attackers go to the local rulers to get their support for their plan to kill Paul. But Jesus’ followers help Paul escape from the city in a basket.

Paul knows from the start he will suffer many hard times and attacks from his enemies (Acts 9:16). But nothing can stop Paul’s faith or his wish to do his duty.

`Paul suffers many attacks in his new life with Jesus (2 Corinthians 4:8, 9). But he does not give up. How can we learn to do the same with our faith? How can we learn to keep going when we feel like giving up?`