---
title:  Paul Goes Back To Jerusalem
date:   02/08/2018
---

Paul went back to Jerusalem after he escaped from Damascus. This visit was Paul’s first time back in Jerusalem since he left that city to go to Damascus. Paul went back to Jerusalem three years after he became a Christian (Galatians 1:18). Paul’s visit to the city was not an easy one. Many problems waited for Paul inside and outside the church.

`Read Acts 9:26–30. What do these verses tell us happens to Paul when he arrives in Jerusalem?`

In Jerusalem, Paul tried to join the apostles. The apostles were the men Jesus chose to lead His church. By now, Paul was a Christian for three years. But the news about his becoming a Christian seemed so amazing that only a few of the apostles believed it was true. The apostles thought that Paul became a Christian to get Christians to trust him so that he could give their names to the Jews. But Barnabas helped the apostles to accept Paul. Barnabas was a Levite from Cyprus (Acts 4:36, 37). He introduced Paul to the apostles. Then the apostles believed that Paul was really a Christian. The apostles also must have been amazed by how God changed Paul.

Sadly, Paul always met people in the church who did not trust him because he hurt believers in the past. Some believers did not trust the message Paul preached. Paul preached that Jesus saves us from sin. But many Jews, including the apostles, were slow to understand that the old Jewish worship plan ended when Jesus died on the cross. Maybe that is why Paul’s closest friends in the church were the Greek-speaking believers: Barnabas; Philip; one of the Seven church leaders (Acts 21:8); and Mnason (Acts 21:16).

Paul stayed in Jerusalem for 15 days (Galatians 1:18). During that time, Paul decided to share the Good News about Jesus with the same Jews he had turned against Stephen. But these Jews refused to accept Paul’s message and even tried to end Paul’s life. Later, Jesus came to Paul in a vision. Jesus told Paul to leave Jerusalem for his own safety (Acts 22:17–21). Christians in Jerusalem helped Paul go to the city of Caesarea. From there, Paul went to his hometown of Tarsus in Cilicia. He stayed in Cilicia for several years before starting his many trips to share the Good News.