---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   03/08/2018
---

“When an army general is killed in war, the army loses its leader. But the general’s death does not make the enemy any stronger. But what happens when a powerful man joins the enemy’s side in war? The first thing that happens is that the side he was fighting for loses his special skills. Second, the other army gets this man’s wisdom and strength. The Lord easily could have killed Saul of Tarsus while he was on his way to Damascus. Then the Jewish group who hurt the church would have lost much of their power to hurt Christians. But God in His wisdom let Saul live. Then God changed Saul’s life. In this way, God took a champion who fought for the enemy and brought him over to fight for Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 124, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Think more about Jesus’ question to Paul on the Damascus road: “ ‘Why are you working so hard against Me?’ ” (Acts 9:4, NLV). For Paul, this question proved that Jesus of Nazareth woke up from the dead. This question also meant that there was a special tie between Jesus and His church (read also Matthew 25:34–45). Jesus was connected with His church. The meaning of Jesus’ question to Paul was clear: any harm done to the church was harm done to Jesus Himself. What does that truth mean to us today?`

`2.	Our witnessing for Jesus means that we must suffer for Jesus. The Greek word for “witness” is “martys.” A martyr is a person who suffers and dies for his or her faith. What does it mean for you to suffer for Jesus?`

`3.	There is an old Latin saying, “Credo ut intelligam.” It means, “I believe so that I may understand.” How does this idea help us understand what happened to Saul of Tarsus? Before Paul became a believer in Jesus, he did not understand the truth about Jesus. But Paul had his experience with Jesus on the Damascus road. Then Paul understood who Jesus was. What lesson can we learn from this story to help us when we are upset with people who do not believe in Bible truths that are so clear to us?`