---
title:  Final Events
date:  19/03/2020
---

`Read Daniel 11:40-45. What is happening here?`

The following phrases help us understand this text:

Time of the End: The expression “time of the end” appears only in Daniel (Dan. 8:17; Dan. 11:35, 40; Dan. 12:4, 9). Examination of Daniel’s prophecies indicates that the time of the end extends from the fall of the papacy in 1798 until the resurrection of the dead (Dan. 12:2). 

King of the North: This name first geographically designates the Seleucid dynasty, but then it refers to pagan and finally papal Rome. As such, it does not describe a geographical location but the spiritual enemy of God’s people. In addition, we should also note that the king of the North represents a counterfeit of the true God, who in the Bible is symbolically associated with the North (Isa. 14:13). 

King of the South: This name at first designates the Ptolemaic dynasty in Egypt, south of the Holy Land. But as the prophecy unfolds, it acquires a theological dimension, and is associated by some scholars with atheism. As Ellen G. White, commenting on the reference to Egypt in Revelation 11:8, says, “This is atheism.”—The Great Controversy, p. 269.

The glorious holy mountain: In Old Testament times this expression referred to Zion, the capital and heart of Israel and geographically located in the Promised land. After the Cross, God’s people are no longer defined along ethnic and geographical lines. Therefore, the holy mountain must be a symbolic designation of God’s people spread throughout the world. 

So, perhaps, we can interpret events like this:

1. The king of the South attacks the king of the North: the French Revolution attempted to eradicate religion and defeat the papacy but failed.
2. The king of the North attacks and defeats the king of the South: the forces of religion headed by the papacy and its allies will eventually overcome the forces of atheism and will form a coalition with the defeated enemy.
3. Edom, Moab, and the prominent people of Ammon will escape: some of those not counted among God’s true people will join the fold in the last hour.
4. The king of the North prepares to attack the holy mountain but comes to his end: the forces of evil are destroyed, and God’s kingdom is established. 

`How can we draw comfort from knowing that, in the end, God and His people will be victorious?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We have reached the period foretold in these scriptures. The time of the end is come, the visions of the prophets are unsealed, and their solemn warnings point us to our Lord’s coming in glory as near at hand.

The Jews misinterpreted and misapplied the word of God, and they knew not the time of their visitation. The years of the ministry of Christ and His apostles,—the precious last years of grace to the chosen people,—they spent in plotting the destruction of the Lord’s messengers. Earthly ambitions absorbed them, and the offer of the spiritual kingdom came to them in vain. So today the kingdom of this world absorbs men’s thoughts, and they take no note of the rapidly fulfilling prophecies and the tokens of the swift-coming kingdom of God.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 235.

In Christ is our only hope. God has daily victories for His people to gain… . By His heavenly gifts the Lord has made ample provision for His people. An earthly parent cannot give his child a sanctified character. He cannot transfer his character to his child. God alone can transform us. Christ breathed on His disciples, and said, “Receive ye the Holy Ghost.” This is the great gift of heaven. Christ imparted to them through the Spirit His own sanctification. He imbued them with His power, that they might win souls to the gospel. Henceforth Christ would live through their faculties, and speak through their words. They were privileged to know that hereafter He and they were to be one. They must cherish His principles and be controlled by His Spirit. They were no longer to follow their own way, to speak their own words. The words they spoke were to proceed from a sanctified heart, and fall from sanctified lips. No longer were they to live their own selfish life; Christ was to live in them… . He would give to them the glory that He had with the Father, that He and they might be one in God.—_Sons and Daughters of God_, p. 294.

Will man take hold of divine power, and with determination and perseverance resist Satan, as Christ has given him example in His conflict with the foe in the wilderness of temptation? God cannot save man against his will from the power of Satan’s artifices. Man must work with his human power, aided by the divine power of Christ, to resist and to conquer at any cost to himself. In short, man must overcome as Christ overcame. And then, through the victory that it is his privilege to gain by the all-powerful name of Jesus, he may become an heir of God and joint heir with Jesus Christ. This could not be the case if Christ alone did all the overcoming. Man must do his part; he must be victor on his own account, through the strength and grace that Christ gives him. Man must be a co-worker with Christ in the labor of overcoming, and then he will be partaker with Christ of His glory.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 4, p. 32.