---
title:  Further Thought
date:  20/03/2020
---

It is interesting that at least in reference to Daniel 11:29-39, Martin Luther identified the abomination of desolation in Daniel 11:31 with the papacy and its doctrines and practices. Thus, the correlation of Daniel 11 with Daniel 7 and 8 reinforces the view of Luther and many other Protestant commentators that the institution of the papacy and its teachings constitute the fulfillment of these prophecies in history. In this connection, Ellen G. White says: “No church within the limits of Romish jurisdiction was long left undisturbed in the enjoyment of freedom of conscience. No sooner had the papacy obtained power than she stretched out her arms to crush all that refused to acknowledge her sway, and one after another the churches submitted to her dominion”. — The Great Controversy, p. 62.

**Discussion questions**

`How can we be sensitive to the feelings of others yet not compromise on what the Bible teaches regarding the role of Rome in the last days?`

`Daniel 11:33 reads: “And those of the people who understand shall instruct many; yet for many days they shall fall by sword and flame, by captivity and plundering” (NKJV). What does this text say about the fate of some of God’s faithful people? What does the text say, too, about what some of these faithful people are doing before they are martyred? What message is there for us today?`

`Daniel 11:36 reads: “Then the king shall do according to his own will: he shall exalt and magnify himself above every god, shall speak blasphemies against the God of gods, and shall prosper till the wrath has been accomplished; for what has been determined shall be done” (NKJV). Of whom and what does this remind you? (See Isa. 14:12-17; see also 2 Thess. 2:1-4).`

`Daniel 11:27, 29, and 35 use the phrase in lammo‘ed, or “the appointed time”
                (NKJV). What does that tell us, again, about God’s control of history?`