---
title:  God, Our Savior
date:   30/09/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Genesis 3:9–15; Genesis 17:7; Matthew 1:18–23; John 3:16; John 14:1–3.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “The Lord God called to the man and said, ‘Where are you?’ ” (Genesis 3:9, NIrV).

When did God first give His people work to do for Him? Was the first time when God commanded Abram to leave his country (Genesis 12:1–4)? Or was it when Moses led God’s people out of Egypt? Or was it when Jesus came to this earth (Matthew 1:18–25)? Or when Paul traveled to preach the Good News about Jesus (Acts 13:4–14:26)? You may be surprised to learn that our work as a church started before any of these things happened. Our work for God started when He made the skies and earth and then made humans (Genesis 1:26, 27). God also is the reason for our work as a church.

The Bible tells us that God wants to communicate with His children and to be close to them in His heart. From the beginning, God started a special friendship with Adam and Eve. After they sinned, God continued His work for the human family. But now, God’s plan included saving people from sin and death. In the end, God’s saving plan will be a success (Revelation 21, 22). God’s future success helps us, as a church, to feel excited about sharing the Good News with everyone on earth (Revelation 14:6, 7).

So, we must be friends with God before we work for Him. We also must understand the work God wants to do in our lives. But first, we must try to answer the question, Who is this God who wants to save us and be our Friend?