---
title:  The God Who Comes Looking For Us
date:   01/10/2023
---

God made humans. He gave us this earth as our home. In the beginning, everything was perfect and beautiful. What was God’s plan for us back then? God wanted us to live in perfect peace with Him and with each other. God gave us a very precious gift: His love. But our love for Him needed to be real. So, God also gave us another precious gift: free choice. God made us free to choose good or evil. Of course, God told Adam and Eve about the danger of disobeying Him (Genesis 2:16, 17). Satan tricked Eve into thinking that nothing bad would happen when she ate the forbidden fruit. Satan lied to Eve and told her the fruit would make her as wise and smart as God: “ ‘You will learn about good and evil. Then you will be like [the same as] God!’ ” (Genesis 3:5, ICB). Sad to say, Eve chose to eat the forbidden fruit. Worse, she gave the fruit to Adam. Adam made the same poor choice as Eve. Sin ruined God’s perfect earth.

Adam and Eve’s sin changed God’s plan for this planet. Before God made the earth, He made a plan to save humans if they chose to sin. Now, God put His plan into action.

`Read Genesis 3:9–15. What were God’s first words to Adam after he and Eve sinned? Why are God’s words so powerful today? What do they teach us about God?`

Of course, God knew where Adam and Eve hid. God asked them where they were for a special reason. Adam and Eve needed to understand why their sin was so bad. God also wanted to end Satan’s control over humans. So, God shared with Adam and Eve His plan to save the human family (read Genesis 3:14, 15). What was His plan? God promised to send “Christ [Jesus] to make peace with us and to bring us back to himself” (2 Corinthians 5:19, WE).

Do you see that God went looking for Adam and Eve before He judged them and gave them His saving promise? God’s question to Adam, “ ‘Where are you?’ ” (Genesis 3:9, ERV), shows us two important ideas. (1) We are sinners, who are lost. (2) We need Someone to save us. God is the One who goes looking for lost sinners. He searches for us because He wants to save us and to be our Friend.

`God continues to ask us today, “Where are you?” What does this question mean to you? How have you answered God?`