---
title:  The God Who Wants To Be With Us
date:   02/10/2023
---

`Read Genesis 17:7; Genesis 26:3; and Genesis 28:15. In these verses, what did God promise Abraham and his future children?`

In the Old Testament stories, we see God and His saving plan at work: God continues to try to save humans. After the Flood, the people from the city of Babel decide to live in one place. There, they will build a city and a tower up to heaven. God stops their plan. He causes the builders not to understand each other. The builders stop their work and move far away from the tower (Genesis 11:1–9). Later, God chooses Abram (who later became Abraham) to serve Him. God plans to bless everyone on earth because of Abram and his future children (Genesis 12:1–3). God promises Abraham and his future children many things. God promises them: “ ‘I will be your God’ ” (Genesis 17:7, 8), and “ ‘I will be with you’ ” (Genesis 26:3, ERV; Genesis 28:15).

As history goes on, Joseph ends up in Egypt. God uses Joseph to save His people. The Bible tells us that the Lord was with Joseph during the hard times in his life (Genesis 39:2, 21, 23). Hundreds of years later, God sends Moses to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. God promises Moses, “ ‘I will be with you’ ” (Exodus 3:12). Moses trusts in this promise. With God’s help, Moses leads the Hebrew people out of Egypt to freedom. Again and again, God shows His people that He wants to be with them.

Read Exodus 29:43, 45. What was one of the reasons that God told Moses to build Him a holy tent in the desert? God wanted to be with His children. God told Moses that He very much wanted to live with the children of Israel. The plan for building the holy tent showed the Israelites the most important part of God’s plan to save them: Jesus Christ. “The offerings and the work of the priests or spiritual leaders showed the people the death of Jesus and His work to save them. The work the priests did had no meaning without Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, December 17, 1872, adapted.

`What are ways that God has been part of your life?`