---
title:  The God Who Became One With Us
date:   03/10/2023
---

The Old Testament shows us God’s plan to save sinners. God chose the Israelites to be His people and to teach other people about His plan and His love. Everything God did was part of His plan to save sinners. God told His special messenger Isaiah, “ ‘Remember what happened long ago. Remember, I am God and there is no other God. There is no other like [the same as] me. . . . When I plan something, it happens. I do whatever I want to do’ ” (Isaiah 46:9, 10, ERV). In the New Testament, the plan that was only a promise in Eden (Genesis 3:15) now becomes a Person: Jesus.

`In Matthew 1:18–23, the angel of the Lord announces to Joseph in a dream that Mary will have a special Baby. What important things does this story tell us about God?`

Immanuel means “God with us.” In the desert, God lived among His people in the Holy Tent. Now God lived with them in the Person of Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus’ coming to earth showed us that God continued to want to be with us. Jesus, God’s Son, was fully human and fully God. Jesus said, “ ‘I am the Way and the Truth and the Life. No one can go to the Father except by [because of] Me’ ” (John 14:6, NLV).

`Jesus was God. He became a Man and lived among us. What does His being born in a human body teach us about God’s work to save us? Read John 1:14–18 for the answer.`

God was in Jesus. In Jesus, God lived in a human body among His children. Jesus was “the only Son of the Father. The Word [Jesus] was full of [filled with] grace [mercy] and truth” (John 1:14, ERV). Jesus kept all the promises that God made in the Old Testament. God promised that Jesus would become one with us. So, that’s what Jesus did. Jesus became one with us. Jesus was God in human flesh. God in Jesus continued to do His work to save us.

`Think about God’s love for us. God loves us so much that He was born as a Human Baby. He came as one of us to live with us. How should this love make us feel? How does this love help us understand the work that God gives us to do to help Him save other people?`