---
title:  The God Who Continues To Be With Us
date:   04/10/2023
---

Jesus’ life and work were the best examples of God’s saving plan. Jesus’ work on earth lasted for 3½ years. During this short time, God showed us more about who He was and His saving plan than He had shown us at any other time in the past. Jesus was the perfect Example of the God that no human could see. All God’s mercy and strength lived in Jesus. Jesus made peace for us with God when He died for us on the cross (Colossians 1:15, 19, 20). In Jesus, God showed humans how much He loved them and wanted to save them. Jesus Himself told us about His saving work: “ ‘The Son of Man came to find lost people and save them’ ” (Luke 19:10, ERV).

`Carefully read John 3:16 and think about Jesus’ words. What is the connection in these verses between God’s love and His saving plan?`

Things happened during the final week of Jesus’ life that connected God’s promises from the past with our hope for the future. Jesus celebrated the Passover. This holy day helped the Jews remember the time when God led His people out of Egypt. During the Passover, Jesus gave up His life to make us free from sin. Paul wrote, “Christ didn’t have any sin. But God made him become sin for us. So we can be made right [accepted] with God because of what Christ has done for us” (2 Corinthians 5:21, NIrV).

`Read the command in Matthew 28:18–20 that Jesus gave to His followers. What promise does Jesus also give them? How does this promise give us hope while we do God’s work?`

Jesus’ death was only part of His plan to bring us back to God, and not the end of His work. Jesus won the war with sin and death. Then God gave Jesus “all power [control] in heaven and on earth” (Matthew 28:18, ERV). Because Jesus controls everything, He commanded His followers to make new followers for Him everywhere on earth. Then Jesus added this powerful promise: “ ‘You can be sure that I will be with you always. I will continue with you until the end of time’ ” (Matthew 28:20, ERV).

`Jesus promised to be “with you always.” How has Jesus kept His promise to you as you do God’s work?`