---
title:  The God Who Will Come Back For Us
date:   05/10/2023
---

`Read John 14:1–3. What is the connection between these verses and the Bible’s end-time message?`

During Jesus’ work on earth, He made us a very precious promise. Jesus promised to be with us forever. This promise is named the Blessed Hope. The Blessed Hope shows us how much God loves us and wants to live with us. Jesus said, “ ‘After I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back. Then I will take you with me, so that you can be where I am’ ” (John 14:3, ERV).

In Revelation, John tells us that Jesus will keep this promise. “I heard a loud voice from the throne. The voice said, ‘Now God’s home is with men. He will live with them, and they will be his people. God himself will be with them and will be their God’ ” (Revelation 21:3, ICB).

“God will finish His work to save humans. God’s mercy is more powerful than sin. Satan says the earth is his. God will take this earth away from Satan. . . . God will make the earth new. Then God will honor this earth in a special way. God will make His home on the earth with the people that He saved. . . . The saved people will live with God forever. God’s light will shine on them. God’s people will praise Him for His wonderful gift: Immanuel, which means ‘God with us.’ [Immanuel is another name for Jesus.]”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 26, adapted.

This quote from Ellen G. White is a beautiful picture of the future life of the saved. God finally will get His wish to be with His children forever. We can be a part of this exciting experience!

**This Week’s Tasks**: This quarter, we will invite you to do some special tasks. These tasks will give you the chance to better understand God and His work in your life. Also, the tasks will help you to be more involved in God’s work. Take the time to think about each task. Be ready to share what you learned with your class each week.

`Task #1: Pray this week for God to open your heart to Him. Ask Him to help you become part of His work.`

`Task #2: Is there someone you see every day at work or in your neighborhood whose name you don’t know? Learn this person’s name. Begin to pray for this person each day.`