---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   06/10/2023
---

God did not make His plan to save sinners after Adam sinned. God’s plan “is the secret truth that was hidden for long ages past, but is now made known” (Romans 16:25, [ICB]). God’s plan to save sinners shows the important rules of His government. From the beginning, God and Jesus knew that Satan would sin. God and Jesus knew that Satan would trick humans into sinning, too. God didn’t plan for sin to be a part of life. But God saw that sin would happen. So, God made a plan to solve the sin problem before Adam and Eve sinned. God loved humans so much. Because of His love, God gave His only Son to die for our sins. ‘Everyone who believes in him would not be lost but have eternal [everlasting] life.’ John 3:16 [ERV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 22, adapted.

“Jesus didn’t tell His followers that their work would be easy. . . . But Jesus would not leave them to fight alone. Jesus told His followers that He would be with them. If His followers do God’s work with faith, God will protect them. . . . So, God’s followers must obey Him. They must work with Him. Then they will not fail. Jesus told His followers, Go to every country and group of people on earth. Go to every faraway country. I will be with you wherever you go. Work in faith and don’t be afraid. I will never leave you. I will be with you always. I will help you do your work. I will guide you. I will comfort you. I will make you holy. I will support you and give you everything you need. I will give you success when you talk with other people. I will give you the words to say that will help them to think about heaven.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 29, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`God’s first words to Adam and Eve after they sinned were, “ ‘Where are you?’ ” (Genesis 3:9, ERV). How does this Bible truth help us to better understand God’s plan for us and for our loved ones?`

`Jesus became a Man. God the Father lived in Jesus when Jesus came to this earth to save us. How does this miracle make you feel? Jesus’ death on the cross helps us understand God’s plan for us. What does the Cross tell us about God’s love?`

`The church’s work belongs to God. So, God will help us do His work. What should you do when you feel afraid or not good enough to do the work?`