---
title:  Church-Wide Community Ministries
date:  03/08/2020
---

#### inTerpret

While individuals can do much in preparing the soil, the united work of the corporate body of Christ also avails much. Churches should be active in church-wide community ministries to minister to the needs of the people in their local territory. Church-wide means more than a few people running a community service center or a handful of people holding a cooking school. It means determining the needs of a community and engaging the entire church in community outreach. Here are some practical ways to get involved:

1.         ELECT a Community Services leader and Health Ministries leader to direct the church’s need-based ministries; if there isn’t one, volunteer!

2.         SCHEDULE regular health ministry events (health expos, cooking schools, monthly supper clubs, free clinics, etc.).

3.         DISCOVER other local community needs, which may involve contacting civic leaders (mayor, police chief, fire chief, etc.).

4.         CONDUCT projects to bless your community and build personal and digital relationships for further ministry.

5.         INVOLVE every member in some way—health ministries, community service projects, humanitarian ministries, felt-need ministries, finance seminars, online presence, etc.

6.         PROVIDE leadership support—promotion, financial support, and participation.

7.         PRAY for laborers and for the salvation of souls through community need-based ministries.

For more information on preparation and the Grow cycle, visit https://grow.adventist.org/prepare/.

``