---
title:  Safeguarding the Creator’s Gift
date:  09/05/2019
---

God had a special purpose in creating humankind as male and female (Gen. 1:26–28). While each bears His image, the joining of gender opposites in the “one flesh” of marriage reflects the unity within the Godhead in a special way. The union of male and female also provides for procreation of a new life, an original human expression of the divine image.

`What attitude does Scripture take toward sexual practices not in keeping with the Creator’s plan? Lev. 20:7–21, Rom. 1:24–27, 1 Cor. 6:9–20.`

Scripture disapproves of all that alters or destroys God’s image in humankind. By placing certain sexual practices off limits, God guides His people toward the right purposes of sexuality. When human experience is confronted by God’s precepts, the soul is convicted of sin.

`What guidance is given Christian believers for relating to their sexuality and that of others in a fallen world? Rom. 8:1–14; 1 Cor. 6:15–20; 2 Cor. 10:5; Gal. 5:24; Col. 3:3–10; 1 Thess. 5:23, 24.`

Believers wait for release from the corruption of sin at Christ’s return. They wait in faith, considering themselves dead to sin through Christ’s death on the cross and alive in Him through His resurrection. Through unceasing prayer, watchfulness, and the power of the Spirit, they treat their sinful nature as crucified and seek to obey Christ in their thoughts. They acknowledge God’s ownership of their bodies and sexuality and use them according to His divine plan.

God forgives those who repent of sin (1 John 1:9). The gospel enables individuals who formerly engaged in promiscuity and sinful sexual activity to be part of the fellowship of believers. Because of the extent to which sin has altered sexuality in humanity, some may not be able to know full restoration in this aspect of human experience. Some, for example, might choose a life of celibacy rather than get involved in any sexual relationships that are forbidden by God’s Word.

`How should we as a church relate to, for instance, homosexuals? How should their own attitude about their sexual orientation influence our response?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We are living in an age of licentiousness, and men and youth are bold in sin. Unless our youth are sacredly guarded, unless they are fortified with firm principles, unless greater care is manifested in choosing their associates and the literature which feeds the mind, they will be exposed to a society whose morals are as corrupt as were the morals of the inhabitants of Sodom. . . . Our youth will meet temptations on every hand, and they must be so educated that they will depend upon higher power, higher teaching, than can be given by mortals. There are despisers of our Lord everywhere, who habitually throw contempt upon Christianity.—_Sons and Daughters of God_, p. 232. 

Jesus took upon Himself man’s nature, that He might leave a pattern for humanity, complete, perfect. He proposes to make us like Himself, true in every purpose, feeling, and thought—true in heart, soul, and life. This is Christianity. Our fallen nature must be purified, ennobled, consecrated by obedience to the truth. Christian faith will never harmonize with worldly principles; Christian integrity is opposed to all deception and pretense. The man who cherishes the most of Christ’s love in the soul, who reflects the Saviour’s image most perfectly, is in the sight of God the truest, most noble, most honorable man upon the earth.—_Testimonies to the Church_, vol. 5, p. 235.

Sin is the greatest of all evils, and it is ours to pity and help the sinner. But not all can be reached in the same way. . . . There are others who are in the greatest need, yet they know it not. They do not realize the terrible destitution of the soul. Multitudes are so sunken in sin that they have lost the sense of eternal realities, lost the similitude of God, and they hardly know whether they have souls to be saved or not. They have neither faith in God nor confidence in man. Many of these can be reached only through acts of disinterested kindness. . . . As they see the evidence of your unselfish love, it will be easier for them to believe in the love of Christ. 

There are many who err, and who feel their shame and their folly. They look upon their mistakes and errors until they are driven almost to desperation. These souls we are not to neglect. When one has to swim against the stream, there is all the force of the current driving him back. Let a helping hand then be held out to him as was the Elder Brother’s hand to the sinking Peter. Speak to him hopeful words, words that will establish confidence and awaken love. . . .

Never should we pass by one suffering soul without seeking to impart to him the comfort wherewith we are comforted of God.—_Christ’s Object Lessons_, pp. 387, 388.