---
title:  Further Thought
date:  10/05/2019
---

“Marriage has received Christ’s blessing, and it is to be regarded as a sacred institution. True religion is not to counterwork the Lord’s plans. God ordained that man and woman should be united in holy wedlock, to raise up families that, crowned with honor, would be symbols of the family in heaven. And at the beginning of His public ministry Christ gave His decided sanction to the institution that had been sanctioned in Eden. Thus He declared to all that He will not refuse His presence on marriage occasions, and that marriage, when joined with purity and holiness, truth and righteousness, is one of the greatest blessings ever given to the human family.”—Ellen G. White, Daughters of God, pp. 180, 181.

As the Song of Solomon showed, sexual love can be a wonderful thing in marriage. But a lasting relationship cannot be based simply on the outward beauty and physical delights. Our bodies age and decay, and no amount of diet, exercise, or plastic surgery will keep us looking forever young. Solomon and the Shulamite’s marriage is a lifelong, committed relationship. Three times they affirm that they belong to each other (Song of Sol. 2:16, 6:3, 7:10). The first time it’s a recognition of mutual ownership (compare with Eph. 5:21, 33). The second time she reverses the order in affirmation of her submission (see Eph. 5:22, 23). The third time it expresses his desire for her (see also Eph. 5:24–32). Love like this cannot be drowned (Song of Sol. 8:7); it’s like a seal that cannot be broken (Song of Sol. 8:6).

**Discussion Questions:**

`How does Solomon’s description of his wife as perfect (Song of Sol. 4:1–5, 6:8, and 7:1–9) compare to Adam’s expression when he first saw Eve? (Gen. 2:23, CEV). How should husbands then relate to their own wives? (Eph. 5:28, 29).`

`Some have seen in the book of Song of Solomon an allegory of the relationship that exists between God and His people or between Jesus and His church. While one must be careful not to overallegorize, what features of the relationship between these two people can be compared to our relationship with God? Also compare to Isa. 54:4, 5; Jer. 3:14; 2 Cor. 11:2.`

`Read Proverbs 31:26, Song of Solomon 5:16, and Proverbs 25:11. How important are our words in tearing down or building up our spouse and weakening or strengthening our marriage? Use the following texts as further illustration: James 1:26, 3:5–11.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Reflecting Christ_, “The Temple of God,” p. 165;

_In Heavenly Places_, “The Widening Circle of Love,” p. 207.