---
title:  Take a Look Through the Open Door
date:  19/01/2019
---

**Introduction**: Rev. 4:1

Why did some people in ancient times bow down to a wooden statue or an idol made of metal? I just don’t get it. They thought that the object represented a spirit that could help them. “Oh Baal, hear us.” They wanted to see something they could pray to. But they had no proof of a god, and it seems so futile.

Contrast that with the scenes of Revelation 4 and 5. The apostle John describes his visit to see the throne room of the God we worship. John’s human limitations kept him from doing justice to the scene, but he gives it a valiant try.

In comparison to some other parts of Revelation, these chapters don’t have much action. They seem not to be part of a narrative that’s taking us somewhere. But they are a very important glimpse into the reality of what it is like to be physically in the presence of God. We need to look carefully at the picture God reveals of Himself and His Son Jesus in the sanctuary where the Godhead is working.

Visualize the moments described in Acts 1:9–11. Jesus lifted off the ground and left the earth, went up into the sky, and flew back to heaven. In Revelation 5:6 and onward, we see the place where Jesus went after He left us, even down to the details of where He is standing and who is with Him.

Among the things to look for in these chapters, you’ll want to find out who are the “elders” seated on thrones around the throne of God. And who are the four living creatures? Why are they in God’s presence all the time? They praise God constantly. Why would they do that? What do their praises signify? And what’s the deal with the emerald rainbow? In chapter 5, we read about the scroll that nobody can open, and who gets to open it. What is the scroll? Find out why it has seven seals and what happens when the Son of God opens it.

As the opening verses of the book of Hebrews tell us, God spoke to us through the prophets long ago. But Revelation 4 and 5 show us more than a message. They are as close as we get to a video of what God and Jesus look like and what they are doing. We get to see the Godhead working on our behalf and why He deserves our worship.

---

_Tim Lale, Bowie, Maryland, USA_