---
title:  And the Glory Goes To . . .
date:  20/01/2019
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 4:4

What has most fascinated me in this weird chapter is the 24 elders— strange in how normal they sound compared to the other more peculiar characters (Rev. 4:4). No semblance to precious jewels, no chimeric features, no 360-degree line of sight. Just white garments, golden crowns, and 24 thrones. Who are these elders? What is their purpose?

There is no indication in Scripture or Jewish tradition of angels taking the title of elder. But both sources reference humans as elders. The elders here also sit on thrones, suggestive of sharing God’s throne, while angels are usually depicted as standing in God’s presence. The elders’ white robes and victory crowns are characteristic of the victorious saints (cf. Rev. 3:4, 5; James 1:12). All this evidence suggests that the 24 elders are not angels but humans. The elders, then, are symbolic of humanity itself; namely, those who have experienced salvation.

Twelve is often used to represent completeness. The 12 tribes of Israel symbolize God’s people in the Old Testament, the 12 apostles symbolize God’s people in the New. And in the New Jerusalem, there are 12 gates—one for each of the 12 tribes of Israel—and 12 foundations—one for each of the 12 apostles (Rev. 21:12–14).

With the four living creatures and the heavenly host, the 24 elders join in the worship of God. They cast their victory crowns at His feet, acknowledging that their spiritual victory was all due to God. They praise the Father as the only One worthy of worship as Creator and Sustainer of all things. And in chapter 5, their praise extends to Jesus as the only One worthy to open the scroll as Savior of humanity.

The 24 elders remind us of our ultimate purpose as humans: to bring glory to our Creator and Redeemer (Rev. 14:7). How much of what we do brings glory to the One who brought us into existence and who gave His life for us? Think of who God really is to you, and let Him bring you to your knees in worship, giving Him all the glory.

**React**

`1. What areas in your life bring more glory to yourself than to God?`

`2. How can you give God glory as your Creator and Redeemer?`

---

_Chelsy Tyler, Westminster, Maryland, USA_