---
title:  “The Saviour of Dunkirk”
date:  22/01/2019
---

**Testimony**: Rev. 5:6

“Oh, that all could behold our precious Saviour as He is, a Saviour. Let His hand draw aside the veil which conceals His glory from our eyes. It shows Him in His high and holy place. What do we see? Our Saviour, not in a position of silence and inactivity. He is surrounded with heavenly intelligences, cherubim, and seraphim, ten thousand times ten thousand of angels.

“All these heavenly beings have one object above all others, in which they are intensely interested—His church in a world of corruption. All these armies are in the service of the Prince of heaven, exalting the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the world. They are working for Christ under His commission, to save to the uttermost all who look to Him and believe in Him. These heavenly intelligences are speeding on their mission, doing for Christ that which Herod and Pilate did against Him. They confederate together to uphold the honor and glory of God. They are united in a holy alliance, in a grand and sublime unity of purpose, to show forth the power and compassion and love and glory of the crucified and risen Saviour.”1

Time was running out. The Allied troops were stranded on the beaches of Dunkirk, France, and the German troops were closing in. From a vast network of top-secret tunnels underneath the medieval walls of Dover Castle, Vice Admiral Bertram Ramsay and his staff worked night and day in a desperate bid to rescue the troops before time ran out. In just 10 days, with only limited resources, Admiral Ramsay pulled off the impossible, organizing the evacuation of more than 338,000 Allied troops by a hastily assembled fleet of hundreds of fishing boats, yachts, lifeboats, and other small vessels.

It might sometimes feel as if God has left this world to its own devices. But behind the scenes, Jesus is working tirelessly on the greatest rescue mission in the history of the universe. All the resources of Heaven are focused on one thing: God’s people. No wonder the angels can only cry out, “ ‘Worthy is the Lamb, who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and praise!’ ” (Rev. 5:12, NIV).

**React**

`How does knowing what Jesus is doing in the heavenly sanctuary impact our daily lives?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White Comments, in Francis D. Nichol, ed., The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7, rev. ed. (Washington, DC: Review and Herald®, 1980), pp. 967, 968.</sup>

_Catherine Robinson, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA_