---
title:  Vindication by Proclamation
date:  23/01/2019
---

**How-to**: Rev. 4:11; 5:13

We do not deserve to hear God’s voice. To be His footstool in heaven for eternity is more than what we deserve; and yet, He has paradise and joys beyond our understanding in store for us, a treasure that is imperishable (1 Pet. 1:3–5).

The living creatures surrounding the Father’s throne proclaim that He is holy and worthy to receive glory (Rev. 4:11). After the slain Lamb opens the scroll, all creatures proclaim that the Father and the Lamb receive honor and glory forever (Rev. 5:13). They are fit to be witnesses because they dwell with God and the Lamb.

We, too, will proclaim God and our Savior are holy and worthy to receive glory and honor when we dwell with Him. This proclamation vindicates His character to the worlds because a lie has been spread by the enemy. This lie is whispered by the adversary, and though it manifests itself in many ways, it’s merely only one lie: God cannot be trusted. When we proclaim that God is holy, good, and worthy of praise, we vindicate His character, shriveling the authenticity of the enemy’s lie.

How can we more effectively vindicate His character and tell the world He can be trusted?

Spend time with God so that His character rubs off on you. Have you noticed that when you spend considerable time with a friend, you tend to adopt his or her mannerisms and phrases they tend to say frequently? The same will happen once you delight in God’s presence.

Get into the habit of allowing God to be your first counsel in all things. From choosing your attire to choosing a spouse, asking God’s advice and asking Him to have full control over your life will set you in motion to testify of His holiness. He will never withhold anything good from you (Ps. 84:11, 12), so you will witness for yourself how He picks only the best of the best for you. Praise God even when your plans don’t work out. When God shuts a door, we may question His intentions toward us. This is when the enemy tends to whisper that God is not who He says He is, that He cannot be trusted. Thank Him when plans come crashing down. He may have just saved you from unnecessary heartache.

**React**

`What do you think are the benefits of gradually discovering God’s character?`

---

_Kim Machado, Columbia, Maryland, USA_