---
title:  The Wonder of It All
date:  24/01/2019
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 4:1–11

“Remember that life is not measured by the number of breaths we take, but by the moments that take our breath away!” This quote, which has been attributed to many authors, resonates with me in a powerful way. These moments—moments of awe, wonder, and exhilarating joy— are experiences that often catch us by surprise and make a permanent mark on our memories.

Travel is a great way to explore the world and people, and it has often left me in wonder. I have been to grand concert halls, cathedrals, museums, government buildings, and eclectic structures in several countries. In the natural world, mountains and waterfalls, in particular, grab my attention. People and cultures also fascinate me, and I am often eager to interact and learn about them.

There is so much beauty in this world. And yet, I have learned that it is only a sample of the true beauty of the universe.

When I think about the throne room of God as described in Revelation 4, I find myself truly without words. There is nothing on this earth, natural or man-made, that compares to the majesty, glory, and wonder of this grand space somewhere in the universe.

A throne of precious stones, an emerald rainbow, decadently dressed individuals, mind-bending creatures, heavenly music, and of course, the awesome presence of God the Father.

This Father, full of might and grace, has proven through His Word that He considers us, human beings, His greatest creation. God loves us and has done everything in His power to restore His precious creation back to Himself in giving humanity His Son, Jesus.

Because of Jesus, His sacrifice, and His victory, I and all who claim Him as Lord are assured that one day we will able to join Him and the Father in heaven. We will see nature as God truly intended it and explore the universe in ways we can’t even imagine.

Most important, we will be in an everlasting love relationship with our Creator, Redeemer, and Friend. When I sit and think about that and all that it means, it simply takes my breath away.

---

_Juliana Baioni, Rockville, Maryland, USA_