---
title:  The Return of the King
date:  25/01/2019
---

**Exploration**: Rev. 5:8–14

**Conclude**

The triumph of Jesus over sin deserves a celebration. Heaven resounds with the songs of victory after a long and punishing war. As Jesus takes His place in the heavenly throne room, it is the happy ending of every movie all rolled into one. Now the good guy has come out on top, love wins, and everyone will live happily ever after.

**Consider**

- Finding the song in your music library that you think most closely approximates the kind of triumphant anthem that would accompany the scenes in Revelation 5.

- Planning a celebration for a friend or family member who has persevered to accomplish a goal. It could be a graduation, the finishing of a book, or the anniversary of establishing a business.

- Composing a poem or song of praise that follows the pattern of Revelation 5. Include praise for something specific God has done in your life.

- Studying to find the reason why the creatures in Revelation 5 have so many wings and so many eyes.

- Interviewing your older friends or family members about the most memorable celebrations in their lives.

- Creating a greeting card to thank and honor a person who has done something noble in your behalf and deserves your praise.

- Finding a video on the internet of a great ceremony—perhaps an inauguration, a coronation, or a royal wedding. What do you think the ceremony has in common with the celebration of the Lamb?

**Connect**

Exodus 15:1–21; Isaiah 6; Ezekiel 1. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pp. 673–678; Heaven, chap. 19, “The Music of Heaven.” Elizabeth Talbot, Jesus 101: Revelation: The Fifth Gospel (Pacific Press®, 2014). Kay Rizzo, On Wings of Praise: How I Found Real Joy in a Personal Friendship With God (Review and Herald®, 1996).

---

_Kim Peckham, Lincoln, Nebraska, USA_