---
title:  “Lord, How Long?”
date:   09/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The problem with evil is more than a problem we have today. Bible writers talked about the problem in their day, too.

`Read Job 30:26; Jeremiah 12:1; Jeremiah 13:22; Malachi 2:17; and Psalm 10:1. What do these verses say about the problem with evil? How much is this problem a part of the human experience?`

These verses ask many questions that we continue to ask and seek answers for today. Why do people who do evil seem as if they enjoy a lot of success, if not always but often enough? Why do God’s loyal followers suffer so much? Why does God sometimes seem to be so far away from us, or hidden?

Whatever we say about these questions, we must not think that the problem with evil is small or not important. Evil is very bad. God hates evil more than we do. So, we may join the Bible writers who cry out to God against the many evils in life: “Lord, how long will the wicked have their fun? How much longer?” (Psalm 94:3, ERV).

`Read Matthew 27:46. How do you understand Jesus’ words in this verse? How do His words help us understand that evil hurts God, too, in the most painful way?`

On the cross, Jesus asked the question, “ ‘My God, my God, why have you left me alone?’ ” (Matthew 27:46, ERV). In this verse, we see that evil hurt God. This amazing Bible truth is shown in the suffering and death of Jesus on the cross. All the evil on this earth fell on Jesus at that time.

This verse also gives us hope. On the cross, Jesus won the fight against evil and its cause, Satan. In the future, Jesus will end evil forever. The words Jesus said on the cross are a quote from Psalm 22:1. The rest of the psalm ends in success and with praises to God.

`On the cross, Jesus looked for a hope that He didn’t see at the time. How does Jesus’ experience on the cross give us hope when we, too, feel hopeless?`