---
title:  We Don’t Know So Many Things
date:   10/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

History will end when God’s love wins the fight against evil. But meanwhile, many questions about evil may continue to trouble us. How can we think and talk about the problem with evil in a way that is helpful?

`Read Job 38:1–12. How does God’s answer to Job help us to understand the bad things that happen? How much do we know about the bad things that are happening now? How much do we not understand?`

Job suffered much. He asked many questions about why so much evil and suffering happened to him. Job wanted to talk with God to get answers to his questions. Job didn’t understand that far more was happening in heaven than he could see (read Job 1; 2). One Bible translation writes: “ ‘Why do you talk so much when you know so little?’ ” (Job 38:2, CEV). After God asks Job this question, God says in Job 38:4, “ ‘Where were you when I made the earth? If you are so smart, answer me’ ” (ERV).

`Read Job 42:3. How does Job’s answer help us to know what we should understand about ourselves?`

God’s answer to Job shows that Job didn’t know and understand many things. We also should be the same as Job. We should empty our hearts of all pride and understand that many things are happening in life that we can’t see and don’t know anything about. We may not know the answers to all our questions. But that doesn’t mean that there are no good answers. We must believe that God will answer our questions in the future. Until then, we must trust in God.

`Think about how little we know about anything. Why, then, should we accept that there are questions that we can’t answer now about evil and suffering?`