---
title:  God Has Reasons We Don’t Know Anything About
date:   11/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God announces in Isaiah 55:8, 9, “ ‘The Lord says, “My thoughts are not like [the same as] yours. Your ways are not like mine. Just as the heavens are higher than [above] the earth, so my ways are higher [filled with more wisdom] than your ways, and my thoughts are higher than your thoughts’ ” (ERV).

`Our thoughts are not as wise as God’s thoughts. We can’t imagine in our minds God’s whole plan for history. So, why should we expect to know what God’s reasons are for what He does or doesn’t do?`

So, then, how can we, as humans, understand the problem with evil? Some people believe in something named skeptical theism. It means that God has good reasons for doing the things He does, even if we don’t always understand them. At the same time, our knowledge about God is limited. So, we shouldn’t expect to know just what His reasons are. A skeptical theist is someone who believes this way. The skeptical theist doubts that humans can understand fully God’s reasons for doing what He does or His decisions about evil on this earth. We can’t see germs moving around in the air. But that doesn’t mean germs aren’t moving in the air all around us. In the same way, we may not know what God’s reasons are, but that doesn’t mean God has no good reasons.

`Read Psalm 73. What does the poet who wrote Psalm 73 think and feel about the evil around him? What does the poet see that helps him to understand things in a new way?`

The poet was very troubled when he saw all the evil in life. The poet looked around him and saw evil people enjoying success. Nothing was fair. The poet had no answers for what he saw. He wondered if his believing and serving God was worth it. But then the poet looked in God’s holy temple.

God’s temple helped the poet understand the problem with evil better. How? The temple is the place where God does His work as Judge. As a holy Judge, God will do what is fair. He will punish evil in His own time.