---
title:  Free To Choose
date:   12/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

While we may not fully understand God’s ways or thoughts, the Bible does tell us some things that help us with the problem of evil. One view for helping us understand the problem with evil better is named the free will defense.

The free will defense is the view that evil happened because humans made the wrong choice. So, we must not blame God for evil. God gave us free will or free choice for good reasons. Why did God make us free to choose? Christian writer C.S. Lewis wrote, “Free choice makes evil possible. At the same time, free choice is the only thing that makes possible any love or joy worth having. A planet filled with robots is not worth making. God wants us to be happy. The only way we can be happy is to love God and each other. . . . We can love God and each other only if we are free.”—Mere Christianity (New York: MacMillan, 1960), page 52, adapted.

`Read Genesis 2:16, 17. What do these verses teach us about the freedom to choose?`

Why would God bother to command Adam and Eve to obey if they weren’t free to obey? Adam and Eve chose to eat the forbidden fruit. Since then, our planet became filled with evil. In Genesis 4, the next chapter after the story about the Fall, we read about Cain killing his brother Abel. The story about the Fall shows how the wrong choice brought sin and evil into the history of our planet.

All through the Bible, we read about free choice. (Read Deuteronomy 7:12, 13; Joshua 24:14, 15; Psalm 81:11–14; and Isaiah 66:4.) Every day of our lives, we make choices because God made us free to choose. Without the freedom to choose, we would not really be human. We would be more like a machine or a robot.

`Sony Company made a robot dog, named Aibo. But Aibo can’t get sick, can’t get fleas, won’t bite, doesn’t need shots or medicine, and doesn’t lose its fur. Would you trade your real dog for an Aibo? If no, how does your choice help you better understand why God made us free to choose?`