---
title:  Love And Evil
date:   13/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

God gave people free choice. Free choice is necessary for love. When we make bad choices, evil happens. Why does God allow evil to happen? God hates evil. But He allows evil to happen for a time. We must be free to choose evil or good. Without this choice, we cannot be free to love. If God destroyed evil too soon, people would serve God because of fear, and not because they loved Him.

“The people on the earth didn’t understand God. So, the earth was a dark place. God wanted people to understand who He really was. He wanted to end Satan’s lies. God wanted to bring people back to Himself. God couldn’t force people to accept Him. That goes against the important rules of God’s government. God wants people to serve Him because they love Him. Love can’t be commanded. Love can’t be won with control. We love God because God first loved us. When we know God, we will love Him back. God’s love must be shown to everyone on earth. Then people can compare God’s love for them with Satan’s plans to destroy them.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 22, adapted.

If we aren’t free to choose, we can’t be free to love. If God is love, then God must allow us the freedom to choose to love Him.

`Read Romans 8:18 and Revelation 21:3, 4. For sure, there is so much evil in this life. Even so, how can these verses help us to trust in God’s love and mercy?`

Often, we can’t understand why evil happens. But God sees the end from the beginning. He also promises happiness to everyone who has faith in Jesus. Romans 8:18 tells us, “Now I’m sure of this [amazing promise]: the sufferings we endure [have] now are not even [at all] worth comparing to the glory that is coming and will be revealed [shown] in us” (VOICE). Do we have the faith and trust to believe this amazing promise?

Jesus chose to die because He wanted us to be free to love. He knew what our freedom to choose would cost Him. Our free choice would send Him to the cross and cause Him to suffer much. But Jesus gave us our freedom anyway. Why must we always remember this important Bible truth?