---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   14/02/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Why Was Sin Permitted?” pages 33–43, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“God threw Satan out of heaven. But even then, God was very wise. He didn’t destroy Satan. God only accepts people who serve Him in love. God’s followers must believe He is fair and filled with mercy. The angels in heaven and the people on other planets weren’t ready to understand sin and the evil it would cause. So, they weren’t ready to understand that Satan should be destroyed. If God destroyed Satan right away, some people would serve God from fear and not love. Then Satan’s evil would not be fully destroyed. The spirit of fighting against God would continue. So, God did the best thing for everyone. God allowed Satan to show the rules of his kingdom. Then people would more fully understand the truth about Satan’s lies against God’s government. Then people would see that God was fair and filled with mercy. No one would doubt God or His law again.

“Satan’s war against God is a lesson to everyone in heaven and on earth. Satan’s war teaches us about the terrible things that happen when we break God’s law. We see what happens when people follow Satan. We see what sin does to both angels and people who refuse to obey God. We also see that God’s government wants what is best for everything He made. Sin is a terrible experiment. The history of sin will help the people on other planets to understand that sin is very evil and help them not to sin.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 42, 43, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`God gives us the freedom to choose. How does our freedom to choose help protect us from thinking that everything that happens is God’s plan?`

`Do you sometimes feel the same way as Job? Too many bad things happen at the same time. Do you sometimes think that there can’t really be a good explanation for the pain or hurt that you or your loved ones suffered? Job says, “ ‘I talked about things I did not understand’ ” (Job 42:3, ERV). How does this verse help you understand how limited we are in our understanding of God and His plans?`