---
title:  Do I Have Any Say in This?
date:  02/08/2025
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 9**

**Do I Have Any Say in This?**

One of the more difficult challenges faithful Christians face is figuring out what role God plays in their lives and in the world around them. Christians universally believe that our God is a powerful God who can and does answer the prayers of His followers. But how does that happen? Does God compel people to act against their will to answer another person’s prayer? Does God direct an individual’s decisions? Christians are often challenged to articulate when and how God displays His power relating to individual freedom.

The question of how much control we have over our lives and actions has been a subject of intense debate. Many Christian churches throughout history have taught the doctrine of predestination in a way that leaves little room for human free will. Augustine, the bishop of Hippo in North Africa argued that predestination means that God decides human destiny—that God’s grace, which He freely gives to those He chooses, is necessary to convert fallen humanity’s will into one that chooses God. Stated this way, God becomes the sole arbiter of who is saved.

The church in Augustine’s day ultimately did not accept his interpretation, but during the Protestant Reformation roughly a thousand years later, Martin Luther and especially John Calvin used Augustine’s ideas to formulate some of their understanding of God’s role in saving humanity. Calvin ultimately suggested that God chooses both to save the elect and to damn the wicked—that He predestines some to heaven and others to hell. Adventists see many problems with this view of predestination. This debate is directly connected with our passage this week, where we continue our study of God’s role in bringing the Hebrews out of slavery.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 9:29–35 from the translation of your choice. You may also compare and contrast this passage to other verses that describe the hardening of Pharaoh’s heart.

` `