---
title:  Who Hardened Pharaoh’s Heart?
date:  03/08/2025
---

#### inGest

When God first appeared to Moses in the burning bush at Mount Horeb, He warned him of the challenge that lay before him in dealing with Pharaoh: “I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, no, not even by a mighty hand” (Exod. 3:19). In the following chapter, God rephrased it: “When you go back to Egypt, see that you do all those wonders before Pharaoh which I have put in your hand. But I will harden his heart, so that he will not let the people go” (4:21). In these two statements, we find described both the free will of Pharaoh and the power of God. On the one hand, Pharaoh didn’t want to let the people go. On the other hand, God acted to harden his heart in this matter. So, who was in control?

We gain clearer insight if we continue following the narrative through the plagues. After Moses’ initial request, Pharaoh replied defiantly, “Who is the Lord, that I should obey His voice? I do not know the LORD, nor will I let Israel go” (5:2). Through the plagues, Pharaoh was about to find out. Before Moses and Aaron went to see Pharaoh again, God reiterated, “I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and multiply My signs and My wonders in the land of Egypt” (7:3). Then, after the miracle of the rod becoming a serpent, Moses described Pharaoh’s reaction by writing, “Pharaoh’s heart grew hard” (v. 13). Then “the Lord said to Moses: ‘Pharaoh’s heart is hard; he refuses to let the people go’ ” (v. 14). This continues with the narrative stating either that Pharaoh “hardened his heart” (8:15) or his heart “grew hard” (7:13, 22; 8:19). Neither of these expressions describes God as hardening Pharaoh’s heart. Pharaoh was doing it himself.

The narrative changes in Exodus 9:12, where we find God stepping in and hardening Pharaoh’s heart. What’s important to notice, though, is that this only happened after six plagues had fallen. After each of the first five plagues, Pharaoh hardened his own heart. God had given Pharaoh multiple opportunities to submit to His will, yet Pharaoh had stubbornly charted his own course counter to God’s demands. After the seventh plague, the text again describes Pharaoh as hardening his heart (9:34). Then, after plagues eight and nine and before the tenth plague, the narrative again says the Lord hardened Pharaoh’s heart (10:20, 27; 11:10). This was not an arbitrary act of God. When God’s presence comes close to a person, change happens. Either the heart becomes softer or harder. It’s impossible to remain neutral when a message comes from God. Pharaoh had repeatedly refused to soften his heart, and seeing God’s miracles only hardened his heart even more. Every appeal, every plague, every rebuke made his heart more stubborn.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 9. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Have you ever continued to disregard God’s instruction? How did this impact your relationship with Him?`