---
title:  Questions of Free Will
date:  04/08/2025
---

#### inTerpret

Questions of free will that are raised by the story of the hardening of Pharaoh’s heart receive more attention in the New Testament. In Paul’s letter to the Romans, when discussing the apparent failure of God’s promises, Paul culminated the argument about God’s knowledge and control of human actions with the story of Pharaoh. Paul first reminded the reader of how God told Rebekah regarding the twins she was bearing that, “ ‘The older shall serve the younger.’ As it is written, ‘Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated’ ” (Rom. 9:12, 13). Realizing his Roman audience might misconstrue these statements about God’s relationship with Jacob and Esau, Paul quickly added, “What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? Certainly not!” (v. 14). To support this conclusion, Paul quoted from Exodus 33:19, “I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion.” Here, Paul highlighted that God is above everyone else, ascribing to Him alone the prerogative to choose what to do with His own mercy and compassion.

As mentioned above, Paul brought in the story of Pharaoh to conclude his argument (Rom. 9:17, 18). Based on these verses, many Christians teach that humans don’t have a choice regarding their salvation—that God decides to whom He will show mercy and whom He will harden.

Several points can help clarify Paul’s meaning. First, in the passage about Jacob and Esau, Paul quoted from two separate Old Testament passages. The first is from Genesis 25:23 and the second from Malachi 1:2, 3—the first and last books of the Old Testament, respectively. God’s statements of the older serving the younger and of loving one and hating the other were separated by a thousand years. Paul knew this, but many readers do not. When we know the Old Testament story, we realize that God’s statement about hating Esau came after centuries of Esau and his descendants, the Edomites, acting as enemies instead of as brothers to Jacob and his descendants, the Israelites.

When trying to understand God’s role as Paul described it in Romans 9, it’s imperative to remember that Pharaoh was intent on refusing God’s command to let Israel go. God stepped in and hardened Pharaoh’s heart only after Pharaoh demonstrated that he would not under any circumstances humble himself and soften his heart to God—even when facing the possible destruction of his nation and his family.

Understanding the story in Exodus helps us see the point Paul was making in Romans. Paul wanted to be clear that nothing about God’s interactions with humans is accidental or outside of His knowledge and plan. When the Bible writers say God is in control, it does not diminish our own personal free will to respond to God’s prompting.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Do you wish you knew the future? Why?`

`If God knows the future, how much of it do you think He controls?`