---
title:  Am I Free?
date:  06/08/2025
---

#### inVite

Many people struggle with the story of Judas Iscariot, which shares a number of similarities with the story of Pharaoh and his hard heart. Judas was part of the innermost team of disciples who were to learn from their Master and become the leaders in God’s plan to take the good news to the world.

There’s a problem, however, in this disciple’s story. The Hebrew scriptures prophesied that someone would act as a betrayer in the Messiah’s life. Psalm 41:9 reads, “Even my own familiar friend in whom I trusted, Who ate my bread, Has lifted up his heel against me.” Zechariah also hinted at the betrayal of the Shepherd of Israel—Jesus (Zech. 11:12, 13). During the Last Supper, Jesus stated, “Most assuredly, I say to you, one of you will betray Me” (John 13:21). Judas’ actions were clearly prophesied and anticipated, so where does his free will come into play in this tragic story? Did he have to betray his Master?

In seeking to understand how Jesus and the Old Testament prophets knew what Judas would do long before the time came, it may be insightful to consider how Jesus treated Judas up until the moment Scripture tells us that Satan entered Judas (Luke 22:3). From John’s Gospel, we learn that Jesus and Judas were likely seated next to each other, as Jesus personally gave him bread to eat. Handing food directly to someone or feeding someone is a sign of sincere love and intimacy. Even today, at wedding receptions, many cultures have a tradition of the bride and groom feeding each other a piece of the wedding cake. So, when Jesus offered Judas food from His own hands, He was tangibly offering Judas love and friendship. Jesus’ prediction of Judas’ actions was not a formal declaration of predestination but rather a final plea—not unlike when Jonah preached to the Ninevites (Jonah 3:1–4). Otherwise, why would He have offered Judas a chance to make a different decision? Knowing this, we can see that the God-given prophecies of the Old Testament (and Jesus’ own statements) in no way forced Judas to do anything. In that piece of food, Jesus made a clarion call to repentance. Judas rejected the opportunity of his own free will, demonstrating that God knowing beforehand what decisions we’ll make does not mean He’s forcing us to choose a certain path.

God’s interactions with both Judas and Pharaoh remind us of the importance of how we respond to God’s invitations. Every time we reject the call of God we make it easier to reject Him again the next time. The converse is also true. Every time we follow God we gain more strength to make the right choice the next time.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 9 again and look for Jesus.`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What did Jesus do to try to save Judas? Why do you think it didn’t work? What does the outcome tell you about how God’s omniscience and our free will interact?`

`Prayer Response:`