---
title:  Resisting the Will of God
date:  07/08/2025
---

#### inSight

“God did not actually make Pharaoh stubborn and unyielding. He continued to give him light, and the king’s increasing stubbornness brought its sure result. By resisting the will of God, seeds of disobedience are sown, and a harvest of evil is reaped. One seed of unbelief generates another and a stronger seed. By submission to the will of God, seeds are sown that will produce a rich harvest of good. The seed that is sown is the seed reaped; for seed reproduces itself. ‘Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.’ As responsible agents, all are deciding for themselves what their harvest shall be.

“God never urges any one on in wickedness. He never leads man to become desperate in his rebellion. He will not that any should perish, but that all should be saved. But He forces no one to accept the light. If, after bearing long with man, God sees that he will not submit, He leaves him to work out his natural hatred. He gives him up to the worst of all tyrants,—self” (Ellen G. White, The Youth’s Instructor, May 25, 1899).

“The Lord said unto Moses, ‘When thou goest to return unto Egypt, see that thou do all those wonders before Pharaoh, which I have put in thine hand; but I will harden his heart, that he will not let the people go.’ That is, the display of almighty power before Pharaoh, being rejected by him, would make him harder and more firm in his rebellion. But the Lord would overrule the course of this haughty monarch, so that his obstinacy and perverseness would cause the name of God to be magnified before the Egyptians, and before His people also” (Ellen G. White, The Signs of the Times, February 26, 1880).

“Not that God had given him an existence for this purpose, but His providence had overruled events to place him upon the throne at the very time appointed for Israel’s deliverance. Though this haughty tyrant had by his crimes forfeited the mercy of God, yet his life had been preserved that through his stubbornness the Lord might manifest His wonders in the land of Egypt. The disposing of events is of God’s providence. He could have placed upon the throne a more merciful king, who would not have dared to withstand the mighty manifestations of divine power. But in that case the Lord’s purposes would not have been accomplished” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [1890], 267, 268).

#### Journal

`After this week’s study, do you know of any areas any your life where you have resisted God’s will and want to surrender?`

`How have you seen God overrule events and even use wicked people to accomplish His purposes?`

`Review your memorized verse. How did it apply to your life this week?`