---
title:  Up Late or Up Early?
date:   17/05/2025
---

### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Mark 1

**Up Late or Up Early?**

In my second year of college, I was looking forward to the upcoming intramural basketball season, when teams would be picked from guys on the campus and we would play each other in a fun tournament. I had honed my skills by playing on the hardscrabble courts where I grew up, but college was a different ballgame. With players from all over the country, I was determined to compete well on the court that year.

My friend Dee and I agreed to practice together. There was one problem with our plan, however: the basketball court was only available early—very early—in the morning. We decided to hit the court at 5 a.m. and practice for an hour each morning. When my alarm clock rang the first morning, I hopped out of bed, pulled on my gear, and headed to the court. We shot three pointers, practiced our layups, and made midrange shots. For two weeks, we maintained a consistent practice routine, but then something happened: I discovered the snooze button on my alarm clock. Five a.m. came so early. One day off wouldn’t hurt, would it? One morning, Dee called to see if I was coming. In a groggy voice, I answered, “Sorry bro, not today.” With that, I fell back asleep. A few days later, Dee also found the snooze button, and before we knew it, our dream of improving died on the altar of sleep.

Research has found convincing reasons to rise early in the morning. So long as we get enough sleep, rising early helps us concentrate better, allows more time to plan our day, provides time to exercise, and offers an opportunity for solitude. While some people naturally awaken early with the birds, others come alive at night and struggle to wake up in the morning. The Bible doesn’t say whether Jesus was an “early bird” or a “night owl,” but it does describe Him rising early in the morning to meet with His Father. This week, we will learn from Jesus, the early riser.

### inScribe

Write out Mark 1:35–39 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 35. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `