---
title:  A Ministry Life
date:   18/05/2025
---

### inGest

If you only had one chapter to describe who Jesus is, Mark 1 might be the perfect choice. The Gospel of Mark is a fast-paced book highlighting Jesus’ power over sin and human degradation, and chapter 1 presents four precious truths about Christ.

First, John the Baptist introduced Jesus as the long-anticipated Messiah. The book begins by quoting Isaiah 40:3, introducing the forerunner who would prepare the way for Christ. Verses 4–8 show how John the Baptist perfectly fulfilled this prophecy as he arrived preaching a baptism of repentance from sin. Jesus’ messiahship was made abundantly clear at His baptism, when the Holy Spirit descended on Him and the Father declared from heaven, “You are My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased” (v. 11).

The second thing we learn from Mark 1 is that Jesus has power over Satan and all that harms human beings. He overcame Satan’s temptations in the wilderness (vv. 12, 13), restored Peter’s sick mother-in-law (and many others) to good health (vv. 29–34), and cast demons out of those who were afflicted (vv. 21–28, 40–45). Jesus’ demonstration of power captured the people’s attention. His fame became widespread, and people took notice that even the unclean spirits obey Him (v. 27).

The third thing we see in Mark 1 is Jesus’ ministry of teaching and preaching and His desire to share this ministry with others. Jesus arrived in Galilee preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, urging His hearers to repent and believe this good news (vv. 14, 15). There, along the Sea of Galilee, Jesus began to call disciples to aid in His ministry, modeling for us the need for collaboration in the work of proclamation (vv. 16–20). The disciples immediately followed Jesus into the synagogue at Capernaum, where the crowds were astonished by the power and authority of Jesus’ teachings (vv. 21, 22).

The fourth lesson is that Jesus had a secret source of power. Having “risen a long while before daylight, He went out and departed to a solitary place; and there He prayed” (v. 35). Amid a busy life of ministry that no doubt exhausted Him, Jesus rose early in the morning to talk with His Father so He would be spiritually nourished and guided. Making time for close communion with the Father was the secret of Jesus’ success in ministry.

### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from Mark 1. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What does this week’s scripture tell you about the demands and burdens of a life dedicated to serving others?`

`What do you think it was like for the disciples to watch Jesus do ministry?`