---
title:  A Great While Before Day
date:   19/05/2025
---

### inTerpret

When we consider the reason Jesus came to earth, is it any wonder He rose early in the morning to spend time with His Father? In His personal mission statement, Jesus said, “The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, because He has anointed Me to preach the gospel to the poor; He has sent Me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed; to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord” (Luke 4:18, 19). Jesus understood His earthly mission, and while He was the Son of God, He understood that His humanity could not bear the weight of His call unless He was constantly sustained by communion with His Father.

In Mark 1:35, Jesus found a quiet, solitary place to pray while the disciples slept. At that time, Jesus was a guest at Simon Peter’s home. In the culture of the day, it was taboo for a guest to leave the house of their host under the cover of darkness without saying anything. Jesus broke this earthly custom to find a worship altar where He could meet with His Father. When Simon and the others realized He was gone, they began frantically searching for Him. “Everyone is looking for You,” they said when they found Him (v. 37). Jesus responded, “Let us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also” (v. 38).

Just the day before, Jesus had met the physical and spiritual needs of the entire city. A crowd awaited Him that morning, hoping to hear Him preach and see Him heal again. But Jesus did something unexpected: He refused to stay and minister to the multitudes who sought Him. Why did Jesus walk away from such a rich ministry opportunity? He had just received directions for the day from His Father. In His early morning session with God, plans had apparently changed. He was to go to the other cities to preach the gospel, no matter how perfect the present opportunity appeared.

This is one of the most important points in all of Mark 1. In that moment, Jesus demonstrated the fruit of time spent with God early in the morning, in solitude and seclusion. It is then that we begin the day with God and surrender the day’s plans to Him.

### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why did Jesus place such a high priority on His time alone with His Father?`