---
title:  In the School of Christ
date:   21/05/2025
---

### inVite

Jesus’ life offers the best insights into how we can live with meaning and purpose. As followers of Christ, we, too, have a divine calling that demands everything. The apostle Paul wrote, “Now all things are of God, who has reconciled us to Himself through Jesus Christ, and has given us the ministry of reconciliation, that is, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to Himself, not imputing their trespasses to them, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation” (2 Cor. 5:18, 19). To fulfill this sacred ministry that God has entrusted to us, we must offer ourselves to God entirely and continually.

God’s purposes and plans for our lives will challenge us to the core of our beings. Many of us are trying to launch our careers. Some of us have started families, and we feel the challenge of leading our children to God. Others are still searching for the partner God has in mind for them. When we consider the important events in our lives that require major decisions fraught with serious consequences, can we afford not to rise early to seek God before our day begins?

Choosing to rise early to seek God is saying that time with God is more important than extra sleep. Rising early to meet God is admitting we don’t have all the answers for our lives, and we want to begin our day by talking to the One who does. Rising early to meet God at our worship altars is acknowledging His claim on our lives. When we seek God early, we say to Him, “I surrender all my plans to You this day. Take complete control of my life. I trust You with everything.”

Ellen White says it this way:
Consecrate yourself to God in the morning; make this your very first work. Let your prayer be, “Take me, O Lord, as wholly Thine. I lay all my plans at Thy feet. Use me today in Thy service. Abide with me, and let all my work be wrought in Thee.” This is a daily matter. Each morning consecrate yourself to God for that day. Surrender all your plans to Him, to be carried out or given up as His providence shall indicate. Thus day by day you may be giving your life into the hands of God, and thus your life will be molded more and more after the life of Christ. (Steps to Christ [1892], 70)

Why not decide now to meet God early tomorrow morning?

### Journal

`Meditate on Mark 1 again and look for Jesus.`

`What motivated Jesus’ life and actions in Mark 1?`

`How did you see Jesus differently or see Him again in this week’s study?`

`Prayer Response:`