---
title: Michael, Our Prince
date: 3/15/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read about the end times in Daniel 12:1. Who changes history at the end of time? How do Romans 8:34 and Hebrews 7:25 help us understand Daniel 12:1?`

So far, every chapter in Daniel starts with a leader who worships false gods. Daniel 12 also starts with a leader. But this leader is different from the leaders we saw in the other chapters. This leader is a prince from heaven. He rises to save God’s people from their enemies.

As we saw in our study of Daniel 10, Michael is the same powerful Person from heaven who shows Himself to Daniel at the Tigris River. There we see Michael as the One who helps God’s people. Michael also is shown as the Son of Man (Daniel 7) and the Chosen One, or Prince (Daniel 9). Michael’s name means “Who is like God?” So, we can see that Michael is Jesus Himself.

It is important to know when Michael comes to help His people. Daniel 12:1 shows us that it happens “‘at that time’” (Daniel 12:1, ERV). What time is that? It is the time we read about in Daniel 11:40–45. This time starts when the Roman Catholic Church’s power ends in 1798. Then the time goes until the end of time (Daniel 12:2).

Daniel 12:1 shows us two important parts of Michael’s power. The verb written as “stand” shows us what Michael does. First, “stand” shows us a king who rises up to win and to control. The verb also shows us someone who acts the same as an army leader. This leader protects His people. He leads them in a special way during the final parts of the war between good and evil.

Second, the verb “stand” also shows us the work of a lawyer in a courtroom. Michael “stands” to act as a lawyer in heaven’s courtroom. He is the Son of Man. So, He comes in front of God the Father. Michael helps God’s people during God’s work as Judge (Daniel 7:9–14). So, when Michael stands, we see that He is both a General and a Lawyer. He has the power to beat God’s enemies. Michael has the power to defend God’s people in heaven’s courtroom too.

Michael helps God’s people during God’s work as Judge.
