---
title: Written In The Book
date: 3/23/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Daniel 12:1, ICB, says: “‘But your people will be saved. Everyone whose name is written in God’s book will be saved.’” The ERV also names this book “‘the book of life.’” What is the angel talking about in this verse?`

Michael stands up to help His people. At that time, there is an awful time of trouble. It is the worst time of trouble that anyone has ever seen on the earth. Why is it so bad? Because at this time God’s Spirit leaves the people who have turned away from God. Then God pours the seven last troubles on end-time Babylon (Revelation 16; Revelation 18:20–24). Then the powers of darkness will take full control of the evil people on this earth. “Satan will then cause the people on the earth to enter into one big, final time of trouble. God’s angels will stop holding back the human feelings. These feelings are the same as strong and awful winds. Then all the things that cause trouble will be let loose. The whole earth will fall into awful ruin. It will be worse than what happened to Jerusalem in Bible times.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 614, adapted.

God’s people will be saved during this time. In heaven’s courtroom, Jesus has acted as their Lawyer. He has defended them against Satan’s charges. He has saved everyone whose name is written in the book of life.

What exactly is this book? There are two books in heaven. One shows the names of the people who belong to God. This book is named the book of life (Exodus 32:32; Luke 10:20; Psalm 69:28; Philippians 4:3; Revelation 17:8).

The Bible also talks about books of record. These show human works or actions (Psalm 56:8; Malachi 3:16; Isaiah 65:6). God uses these books in His work as Judge. These books show every person’s work for the Lord. So, the books in heaven show the names and works of every human being. Some people do not like the idea of their names and their works being written in heaven. But when we give our lives to Jesus, He writes our names in the book of life. God erases our bad works as part of His work as our Judge. This record is proof to everyone in heaven that we belong to Jesus. It shows that we are safe to take into heaven. That is why Jesus can protect us during the time of trouble.

When we give our lives to Jesus, He writes our names in the book of life.
