---
title: Waking Up From The Dead
date: 3/24/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 12:2, 3. What is happening in these verses? Why is it so important to us?`

One of the most powerful statements in the Old Testament about the resurrection or waking up from the dead is in the book of Daniel. We read about it in Daniel 12:2, 3. These verses can teach us some very important truths. First, the verses talk about people who “‘sleep in the dust’” (Daniel 12:2, 3, NLV). “Sleep” is a word picture for death. It shows us that our human bodies do not have spirits that never die. When a person dies, his or her spirit does not stay alive. The person stops living. He or she stays asleep until the resurrection when God wakes up His people from the dead. Second, Daniel 12:2, 3 shows that the resurrection changes what happens to the body because of sin. Daniel 12:2, NLV, says: “‘Many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth will wake up.’” Do you see the words written as “dust of the earth”? In the Hebrew language those words are written as “earth of dust.” This strange wording helps us remember Genesis 3:19. That is the only other place in the Bible where the word “earth” comes before the word “dust.” That shows us something important. We know that Adam’s sin brought death to us all. But at the Second Coming, death will no longer be able to hurt us. As Paul says: death “‘has lost the battle’” (1 Corinthians 15:54, NIrV).

`Read Romans 8:18 and Hebrews 2:14, 15. What reasons do these verses give us for why we do not need to fear death?`

Death destroys and ends everything. But God offers us the promise that death does not get the final say in the lives of believers. Jesus broke the chains of death. He came out of the grave alive. At that time, Jesus beats death. Now we can look beyond death to the promise of everlasting life we have from God. He gives this gift to us because of everything Jesus did for us. Michael “stand[s] up” (read Daniel 12:1, KJV). So, we who belong to Him also will stand up. The dead will rise from the “earth of dust.” They will shine the same as stars forever.

Jesus broke the chains of death when He came out of the grave alive.
