---
title: The Locked Book
date: 3/26/2019
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Daniel 12:4 and John 14:29. As these verses show us, why is the book of Daniel locked until the end times?`

At the end of Daniel 10:1–12:4, the angel tells Daniel to seal, or lock, the book of Daniel. Its special messages must be kept secret until the end times. At that time, the angel says, “‘Many people will go here and there looking for true knowledge, and the true knowledge will increase [will be more and more]’” (Daniel 12:4, ERV). Some Bible students believe “‘true knowledge’” shows us a future time when humans will make many new discoveries in science. True, Daniel 12:4 may include these discoveries. But that is not all that the verse shows us. The words “‘here and there’” show us that people everywhere in the end times will be studying the book of Daniel itself. When we look back at history, we see that most people did not understand the book of Daniel for hundreds of years. Many of its important messages were mysteries to most people. Very few people understood the message about God’s cleaning the temple in heaven. They did not understand God’s work as Judge. They did not understand who the little horn was or what he did. They did not understand the special messages about time in Daniel 8.

In Martin Luther’s time, more and more people started to study the book of Daniel. But it was only in the end times that people understood the book more fully. As Ellen G. White writes, “Since 1798, the book of Daniel is no longer locked. From that time, our knowledge about the special messages in Daniel has grown. That is why many people have announced that the time for God’s work as Judge is near.”

—The Great Controversy, page 356, adapted. “People started to take new interest in the book of Daniel. That happened at the end of the 18th century and the start of the 19th century....Their study led to a worldwide belief that the Second Coming was near. Some of the people who announced this message were Bible students in England, Joseph Wolff in the Middle East, Manuel Lacunza in South America, and William Miller in the United States. These men and many other students of end-time Bible messages studied the book of Daniel. They said that Jesus’ coming was near. Today, this belief is the reason for the work that the Seventh-day Adventist Church does.”—The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, volume 4, page 879, adapted.

The angel tells Daniel to seal or lock the book of Daniel until the end times.
