---
title: The Waiting Time
date: 3/19/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read the ending of the book in Daniel 12:5–13. How does the book end?`

The ending of the book of Daniel happens at the “‘river’” (Daniel 12:6, ERV). The river is the Tigris River. Daniel’s last dream happened there (Daniel 10:4). In Daniel 12:6, Daniel does not write the Hebrew word for “river.” No, he writes the word “ye’or.” “Ye’or” means “the Nile River.” It helps us remember the Exodus and how God saved Israel from Egypt. In the same way, “ye’or” shows us that God will save His end-time people too.

At the end of Daniel, we read about three special messages about time. (1) The first one is “a time, times, and half a time” (Daniel 12:7, NKJV). It answers the question: “ ‘How long will it be before these amazing [surprising] things come true?’ ” (Daniel 12:6, ERV). The “amazing things” are the things we read about in Daniel 7; Daniel 8; and Daniel 11. We also read about the “time, times, and half a time” in Daniel 7:25; Revelation 11:3; Revelation 12:6, 14; and Revelation 13:5. The “time, times, and half a time” also is the same as the 1,260 years that the Roman Catholic Church was very powerful on the earth. That was from a.d. 538 to 1798. Daniel 11:32–35 shows us this same time in history. But the chapter does not tell us how long this time is.

The other two time messages are 1,290 days and 1,335 days. They are the angel’s answer to Daniel’s question in Daniel 12:8: “ ‘What will happen after all these things come true?’ ” (ERV). Both the 1,290 days and the 1,335 days start with the little horn’s work. The little horn removes the daily work that Jesus does for sinners in heaven’s temple (read Daniel 8:13). Both the 1,290 days and the 1,335 days start in a.d. 508. At this time, King Clovis becomes a Catholic. The 1,290 days end in 1798 when Napoleon’s army arrests the pope. The 1,335 days end in 1843. At this time, the students of William Miller start to study the special messages in the book of Daniel. They wait and hope for Jesus to come back.

Both the 1,290 days and the 1,335 days start with the little horn’s work in a.d. 508. At that time King Clovis of France becomes a Catholic.
