---
title: Additional Thought
date: 3/27/2020
---

 **This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:**

“The Bible’s special messages show many things that will happen. These happenings lead to the start of God’s work as Judge in heaven. We see this Bible truth in the book of Daniel. The angel tells Daniel to close and lock that part of his message about the end times. The angel tells Daniel to keep this part a secret ‘ “until the time of the end.” ’ [Daniel 12:4, ERV]. No one can announce the message about God’s work as Judge until after this time. At that time, people will see that many things in the book of Daniel happened just as God promised. In the end times, ‘ “Many people will go here and there looking for true knowledge, and the true knowledge will increase.” ’ Daniel 12:4 [ERV].

“Paul warned the church not to look for Jesus to come back in his time. ‘Do not let anyone fool you. For the Lord will not come again until many people turn away from God. Then the leader of those who break the law will come. He is the man of sin.’ 2 Thessalonians 2:3 [NLV]. Paul’s words tell us about the things that must happen before Jesus can come back. First, the ‘man of sin’ must stay in power for a long time. The ‘man of sin’ is a word picture for the leaders of the Roman Catholic Church. Next, the Bible shows us that the Roman Catholic Church will have power over kings and governments for 1,260 years. But then the church’s power ends in 1798. Jesus cannot come back before that time. That is why the message about Jesus’ coming cannot be announced until after 1798.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 356, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:**

`1. What risks do we take by setting dates for future end-time happenings? What happens to the faith of many people when these things do not happen? What does Jesus say in John 14:29 that should help us understand prophecies, or special messages, about the future? How can Jesus’ words also help us not fall into the trap of making and believing false prophecies?`

`2. Why is the Good News about Jesus our only hope of having our names written in the book of life in heaven? Without this promise, what hope do we have?`

“‘Many people will go here and there looking for true knowledge, and true knowledge will increase’” (Daniel 12:4, ERV).
