---
title:  Jesus the Davidic King
date:  02/01/2022
---

#### inGest

The main point of Hebrews is that Jesus is the Ruler who is seated at the right hand of the Father (Heb. 8:1). As God, Jesus has always been the ruler of the universe. But when Adam and Eve sinned, Satan became the ruler of this world (John 12:31; 14:30; 16:11). Jesus, however, came and defeated Satan at the cross, recovering the right to rule those who accept Him as their Savior (Col. 2:13–15).

The first two chapters of Hebrews focus especially on the inauguration of Jesus as King. Hebrews 1:5–14 is arranged in three sections. Each section introduces an aspect of the enthronement ceremony of the Son. First, God installs Jesus as the royal Son (Heb. 1:5). Second, God introduces the Son to the heavenly court, who worship Him (Heb. 1:6, 8) while the Father proclaims the eternal creatorship of the Son (Heb. 1:8–12). Third, God enthrones the Son—the actual conferral of power over the earth (Heb. 1:13, 14).

One of the most important beliefs of the New Testament is that in Jesus, God fulfilled His promises to David (see 2 Sam. 7:8–16 and Luke 1:30–33). Jesus was born from the line of David in the city of David (Matt. 1:1–16; Luke 2:10, 11). During His ministry people often called Him “son of David.” He was executed under the charge that He claimed to be “the king of the Jews” (Matt. 27:37, NKJV). Peter and Paul preached that Jesus had risen from death in fulfillment of the promises made to David (Acts 2:22–36; 13:22–37). And John identified Jesus as “the Lion of the tribe of Judah” (Rev. 5:5).

Hebrews, of course, concurs. God has fulfilled His promises to David in Jesus: God gave Him a great “name” (Heb. 1:4), installed Him as His own Son (Heb. 1:5), affirmed Him forever as Creator and Lord (Heb. 1:8–12), and seated Him at His “right hand” (Heb. 1:13, 14). Furthermore, according to Hebrews 4, Jesus leads the people into the rest of God, and He is the builder of the house of God (Heb. 3:3, 4). Jesus, then, is the legitimate ruler of earth engaged in a war with Satan, the usurper, for our allegiance.

An interesting concept of Old Testament theology is that the promised Davidic King would represent the nation before God. Israel was God’s son, and God would give them a place where they would rest from their enemies. God would also choose a place among them where His name would dwell. These promises for Israel were transferred to the promised Davidic King. He would be adopted as God’s son, God would give him rest from his enemies, and he would build a temple for God in Zion where God’s name would dwell. This means that God would fulfill His promises to Israel through the promised Davidic King. The Davidic King would represent Israel before God.

The insertion of a representative in the relationship between God and Israel made the perpetuation of their covenantal relationship possible. The Mosaic covenant required the faithfulness of all Israel to receive God’s protection and blessings (see Josh. 7:1–13). The Davidic covenant, however, secured God’s covenantal blessings upon Israel through the faithfulness of one person, the Davidic King.

Unfortunately, for the most part the Davidic kings were not faithful, and God could not bless Israel as He wanted. The Old Testament is filled with accounts of just how unfaithful many of those kings actually were. The good news is that God sent His Son to be born as the Son of David, and He has been perfectly faithful. Therefore, God is able to fulfill in Him all the promises He made to His people. When God blesses the king, all his people share in the benefits. This is why Jesus is the Mediator of God’s blessing to us. He is the Mediator in that He is the channel through whom God’s blessing flows. Our ultimate hope of salvation is found only in Jesus and what He has done for us.

` `