---
title:  Teacher Comments
date:  24/04/2026
---

#### Part I: Overview

**Key Text:** Hebrews 4:12

**Study Focus:** 2 Tim. 3:15–17, John 17:17, Eph. 1:13, Ps. 119:11, 1 Cor. 2:14.

The main role of the Word of God is to feed us spiritually to keep us alive. The Israelites learned this important spiritual lesson when they experienced physical hunger in the wilderness. Moses’ interpretation of God’s miracle of the manna reflects this notion: “ ‘That He might make you know that man shall not live by bread alone; but man lives by every word that proceeds from the mouth of the Lord’ ” (Deut. 8:3, NKJV). Jesus was famished in the wilderness when He uttered this principle to the devil (Matt. 4:4). We hear this same idea in Peter’s epistle in which he compares the Word of God to the milk that feeds and nourishes hungry newborn babes: “That you may grow thereby” (1 Pet. 2:2, NKJV; compare with Heb. 5:13). These biblical examples make us aware of an important condition that we must have in order to partake of spiritual nourishment from the Word of God. We must come to the Word with an awareness of our need. We must come hungering and thirsting; otherwise, we will not appreciate the vital necessity of spiritual sustenance. Nor will we likely enjoy it or profit from it.

In this study, we will try to understand two crucial truths about spiritual nourishment: (1) why and (2) how the process of feeding on the Word of God sustains us. The basis of our study will be 2 Timothy 3:14–17, the foundational passage from Paul in his second letter to Timothy. The first question—“Why?”—will permit us to examine, from a biblical perspective, the special qualities and effects that make 2 Timothy so powerful and life-changing. The second question—“How?”—will propose methods for reading the Scriptures. Such methods will allow for the miracle of feeding on God’s Word to happen in our own lives.

#### Part II: Commentary

**The “Why” of the Scriptures.** Why do the Scriptures possess the power to sustain life? Paul suggests two responses to this question. The first response has to do with Paul’s high view of the Scriptures, as well as the nature, or sacred quality, of the Scriptures. The second response has to do with the effect of the Scriptures, namely, the transformative power of the sacred writings in the life of Paul’s reader, Timothy (1 Tim. 3:15), whom Paul also calls the “man of God” (1 Tim. 6:11).

**1. The Quality of the Scriptures.** The Scriptures that formed the Bible were first commonly identified as “holy.” The phrase “holy Scriptures” (Greek: hiera grammata), which Paul uses, occurs only here in the New Testament. This phrase reflects the technical title Torah sebbiktav, “the written law,” that designated in ancient Judaism the writings that were considered as inspired, in opposition to the Torah sebbe‘al pe, “the oral Law,” which was not considered inspired. By this term, Paul here refers to the Old Testament, a title that some Christians will use much later as a derogatory term to suggest a lower (or even invalid) inspiration.

For Paul, the so-called Old Testament was the only Holy Scripture. At that time, the New Testament did not exist and was not yet a part of the instruction that Timothy would have received. The reason these writings are called “holy” derives from the fact that they are considered to be theopneustos, “inspired”—literally, “God breathed” in the passive form, implying God as its subject. This same verb is used to describe the process of God’s creation of man, in which God “breathed into his nostrils the breath of life” (Gen. 2:7, NKJV). From this exalted view of Scripture, Paul infers not only lessons concerning the effect of the Scriptures upon us but also lessons concerning the way that we should approach God’s Word.

**2. The Effect of the Scriptures.** The parallel between the inspiration of the Scriptures and the process of the creation of human beings is not accidental. This parallel is intended to suggest that the Word of God is life. As such, it brings life to its receiver, just as Adam received life from his Creator. Paul specifies that the Holy Scriptures “make you wise” (2 Tim. 3:15, NKJV). Paul does not mean that this effect is mechanical, that those who receive the Scriptures would immediately and magically become endowed with wisdom. Paul reminds us that the wisdom of which he speaks comes through faith in Jesus Christ. Then, in the next verse, Paul explains that this wisdom functions in four distinct ways in the life of the believer:

- The first function of the Scriptures is “doctrinal.” Scripture guides us in finding and understanding the truth.
- The second function of the Scriptures is “reproof”; that is, it makes us aware of errors we have committed, not only in doctrine but also in the way we behave in our personal lives.
- The third function of the Holy Scriptures is “correction.” It is not enough to realize our mistakes; we also must understand how to correct our course and determine the right direction to take.
- The fourth and final function of Scripture is for “righteousness.” The Scriptures ultimately lead us to repentance and obedience through the Holy Spirit. Paul then concludes that the goal of the Scriptures is the formation of the complete individual. Paul concludes his lesson on a practical level with the directive to take action. Thus, Scripture equips us “for every good work” (2 Tim. 3:17, NKJV), as well.

**The Approach to the Scriptures.** How do the Scriptures produce these extraordinary effects, taking us from where we are to a life of righteousness with all the “good works” it implies? To help us answer this question, four lessons, or principles, concerning our approach to the Scriptures may be drawn from Paul’s counsels to Timothy:

**1. All Scripture.** The first and most basic principle in our approach to biblical texts is the fact that their “holy” and inspired quality concerns the totality of Scripture. Paul insists that all Scripture is inspired (2 Tim. 3:16). This principle means that the whole corpus of the Bible is to be considered in our studies and in our quest for God’s revelation. Paul’s statement encourages us to read Scripture, trusting that its holy writings will guide us in our search for divine truth and for practical advice in our life. Not one book or single passage of the Bible is to be privileged over other books or other passages. All Scripture merits the same high degree of interest and attention. Paul suggests here an approach that has been defined in more recent biblical scholarship as the “canonical approach.” Thus, a particular text should be analyzed in light of other biblical passages that may refer to or allude to it (also called the inter-textual principle).

**2. Learn and Know.** Paul values the effort of learning and knowing (2 Tim. 3:14, 15). For this reason, ignorance of the Scriptures, or a superficial reading of the Bible, may have a serious impact, not only on our present existence but also on our eternal salvation. Within this framework, Paul’s call to learn and know implies that we must give particular attention to the biblical text that is the object of our study. As Ellen G. White reminds us: “The importance of [seeking a thorough knowledge of the Scriptures] can hardly be overestimated. ‘Given by inspiration of God,’ ‘able to make us wise unto salvation,’ rendering ‘the man of God perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works,’ the Book of books has the highest claim to our reverent attention. We must not be satisfied with superficial knowledge, but must seek to learn the full meaning of the words of truth, and to drink deep of the spirit of the holy oracles.”—Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, Oct. 9, 1883.

**3. Faithfulness.** Paul’s exhortation to Timothy to “continue” in the things he had learned (2 Tim. 3:14) echoes Jesus’ appeal to “abide” in His Word (John 8:31, NKJV). The same Greek verb menō, “continue,” appears in both verses. It is not enough to learn the biblical truth once; we should review it. There is a Hebrew proverb that says, “Someone who learns a lesson and does not review it is like a farmer who sows and does not reap.” For Timothy, and for many Christians, this training is not a one-time event; the work begins “from childhood” (2 Tim. 3:15, NKJV) and continues throughout life. Paul’s exhortation to continue in the Word is not just engaging in an intellectual recollection of abstract truths and doctrines. Nor is it a temporary sentimental remembrance. Paul calls Timothy to abide in the Word and practice it at all times. James thinks along these lines when he discusses the connection between faith and works (James 2:14–26).

**4. Impact of Teachers.** We cannot have access to the divine truth by ourselves. Because truth is given through revelation, as the Bible teaches, the testimony of human witnesses who have accepted that revelation as true is also needed. For this reason, we need teachers. From the very beginning of Israel’s history, God has urged His people to teach their children (Deut. 6:7). Paul alludes to that principle when he writes to Timothy about those “from whom” he had learned (2 Tim. 3:14, NKJV). Paul particularly has in mind Timothy’s mother, Eunice, and his grandmother, Lois, but also himself among the “many witnesses” of the Christian community (2 Tim. 2:2). Paul’s appeal, then, concerns not only the students or the children who are indebted to their parents and their teachers but also the parents and teachers themselves who have the responsibility to share what they have learned.

#### Part III: Life Application

**Teacher’s Tip:** How do we successfully apply the Scriptures to our lives? The following activities are intended to help us do just that. Ask for a volunteer to read the section below titled “For Reflection.” Then encourage class members to put into practice during the week one or more of the activities that follow and then report on their experience in class next Sabbath. Ask them to relate specifically how the activity strengthened their understanding of Scripture and how it deepened their relationship with the Lord.

**For Reflection:** There is the potential for misunderstanding how to apply the Scriptures in our own lives. The application of the Scriptures to our lives does not mean we are at liberty to manipulate God’s Word to accommodate our inclinations. Rather, to apply the Scriptures to our lives means that we should conform our lives to the teachings of Scripture.

**Activity 1:** Daily meditation: For a week or so, use a short text (one verse or one biblical passage) every morning for your devotional. Learn what this passage means in light of its context. Be creative. Look for new insights and lessons with each reading.

**Activity 2:** Learn a verse by heart: Every month, choose a Bible verse from your meditation texts and repeat it each morning until you have memorized it.

**Activity 3:** Teach: The best way to learn is to share with your spouse or a friend what you have learned and discovered in the Scriptures. Find someone with whom you may share and discuss your newfound knowledge and insights about the Bible.

**Activity 4:** Obey: It is not enough to know a verse by heart. The most important thing is to apply it to your life and obey its counsel. As Jesus said: “ ‘If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them’ ” (John 13:17, NKJV). As you read and study the Word, ask for the Holy Spirit to give you wisdom to know how to apply its truth in practical ways to your life.