---
title:  God’s Love Wins
date:   22/06/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
Revelation 22:11, 12; John 14:1–3; The Great Controversy, chapters 39–42.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “I heard a loud [mighty] voice in heaven. 
It said, ‘Look! God’s house is now set up among the people. God will live with them. They will be his people and God himself will be with them. He will wipe every tear from their eyes. No one will die. No one will ever cry or be sad for any reason. No one will ever have trouble. The old things are gone’ ” (Revelation 21:3, 4, WE).

We don’t need to fear the future. We have hope. For sure, we know that hard times are coming. We know we will suffer for our faith in Jesus. But because we have hope that a better day is coming, we can live today with joy.

Franklin D. Roosevelt was president of the United States from 1933 to 1945. Those years were some of the most difficult years in United States history. At that time, President Roosevelt’s legs were paralyzed with polio. He couldn’t walk without help. Roosevelt wrote, “We always have believed that a better life and a better future waits for us.” Albert Einstein was one of the smartest men who lived during the 1900s. He wrote, “Learn from yesterday. Live for today. Hope for tomorrow.”

In our final lesson, we will see Jesus’ love for us during the most exciting time in the history of heaven. Jesus’ love never fails. We also will see Jesus win the worldwide war between good and evil. The Bible’s last book, Revelation, gives us hope for today, tomorrow, and forever.