---
title:  Hope During The Time Of Trouble
date:   23/06/2024
---

`What final things happen just before the Second Coming? Read Revelation 22:11, 12; Daniel 12:1, 2; and Jeremiah 30:5–7 for the answer.`

We are now in a testing time. God tests everyone on earth. Soon everyone will make a final decision for Jesus or against Him. Then the testing time will end, and a time of trouble starts: “Things will be worse than at any time since nations [countries] began” (Daniel 12:1, NIrV). In Revelation 16, God’s anger is poured out in seven last troubles. These seven troubles are poured on everyone who rejected Jesus. The seven troubles help us remember the ten troubles that God poured on Egypt. God protected the Israelites from the ten troubles. In the same way, God will protect His loyal people from the seven last troubles. Notice God’s promise in Daniel 12:1: “ ‘Everyone whose name is written in God’s book will be saved’ ” (ICB). What book is Daniel 12:1 talking about? The “book of life” (read Philippians 4:3; Revelation 13:8; Revelation 20:12, 15; Revelation 22:19). If we stay loyal to Jesus, He will not erase our names from His book of life (Revelation 3:5).

`Read 1 John 3:1–3; John 8:29; and John 14:30. What is the only way we can be ready for the time of trouble?`

We must have a relationship with Jesus. Our love for Jesus must be so deep and strong that nothing can change our hearts. With the Holy Spirit’s help, we can please Jesus in everything. When we obey Bible truth, the Spirit makes our hearts clean and holy, the same as Jesus.

`What promises does God give us for the time of trouble? Read Psalm 27:5; Psalm 91:1–11; and Revelation 3:10–12 for the answer. How do these promises give us hope?`

Some people misunderstand the Bible truth about how we will live through the time of trouble without a Helper. Yes, Jesus stops His work in heaven’s temple after all people make their final decision for or against Him. But Jesus promises us He will be with us always (Matthew 28:20). During the time of trouble, His Holy Spirit lives in our hearts. He will send His holy angels to protect us.