---
title:  Jesus Is Coming Soon!
date:   24/06/2024
---

`Read John 14:1–3 and Titus 2:11–14. When we think about the coming time of trouble, why are these verses so encouraging to us?`

“Jesus said, ‘Don’t let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God. And trust in me’ ” (John 14:1, ICB). These words are a promise. Jesus never will leave us. He will come again to take us home. This earth isn’t our home. A better day is coming. Yes, soon the churches will work with the government to make laws that will cause us much suffering. In that dark time just ahead of us, Jesus’ soon coming will fill our hearts with hope.

`Read Revelation 6:15–17 and Isaiah 25:8, 9. Compare the saved with the lost in these verses. How do the two groups think and feel? How are they different? What is the reason for their different ways of thinking?`

The lost finally see that sin is awful, while the saved have accepted God’s gift of mercy. Sin leads to fear, guilt, and the loss of everlasting life. God’s mercy in the heart leads to our forgiveness and peace. We will feel joy at the Second Coming.

`Read Revelation 15:3, 4 and Revelation 19:7. What song do the saved sing about Jesus? How do they think and feel about His gift of mercy?`

“The saved will sing about the cross of Jesus and study His plan to save sinners forever. In Jesus the King, the saved will see the Savior who died for them. . . . Jesus made all the planets. He is in control of all life in heaven and on earth. This same Jesus gave up all His glory and honor to come to this earth. He loved humans so much. He chose to save them. All the people in heaven and on the different planets always will be filled with wonder and love for Jesus because He saved us.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 651, adapted.

`Read Revelation 12:17; Revelation 17:13, 14; and Revelation 19:11–16. What happens first in these verses? What comes next? What do these verses say about earth’s final fight and Jesus’ win over evil?`