---
title:  The Earth During The 1,000 Years
date:   25/06/2024
---

Revelation 19 ends with the Second Coming. The lost are destroyed at that time. But the story isn’t over. Revelation 20 introduces us to a period of time that continues for 1,000 years.

`What happens to Satan at the Second Coming? Read Revelation 20:1–3 for the answer.`

Revelation 20:1-3 contains word pictures. Satan is not really in chains and locked in a pit. For 1,000 years, Satan can’t leave the earth. No one is alive at this time except Satan and his angels. So, Satan has no one he can lie to or trick. In 2 Peter 2:4, we read about what happened to Satan and his angels after they lost the war in heaven. “When angels sinned, God did not let them go free without punishment. He sent them to hell” (ERV). So, after the Second Coming, Satan will not be allowed to leave the earth for 1,000 years. He will see the mess that his war made.

In 2 Peter 2:4, WE, the word written as “hell” comes from a Greek word that means “deep dark hole.” The Old Testament in the Greek language uses this same word to talk about how the earth looked before Jesus made everything: “The earth was completely empty. There was nothing on the earth. Darkness covered the ocean” (Genesis 1:2, ERV). In the Greek Old Testament, the word written as “ocean” is the Greek word “abyssos.” “Abyssos” helps us to understand that there was no life on earth. So, “the deep dark hole” is not some underground cave or a big black pit located in outer space. No, “abyssos” explains how Satan’s work of sin completely destroyed this earth before the Second Coming. Sin made this earth as empty and lifeless as it looked before God filled it with life and made everything in it in six days.

`Read Jeremiah 4:23–26; Jeremiah 25:33; and Isaiah 24:1, 3, 5. What do Jeremiah and Isaiah say about the earth and how it looks at the Second Coming?`

The earth is destroyed at the Second Coming. No person is left alive on the earth. Satan and his angels are left alone to think about all the evil that they caused.