---
title:  The 1,000 Years In Heaven
date:   26/06/2024
---

`What do the saved do in heaven for 1,000 years? Why is that work important? Read Revelation 20:4–6 for the answers.`

During the 1,000 years, the saved will get to examine how God solved the sin problem. Who doesn’t have questions they’d like to ask God? During the 1,000 years in heaven, the saved get to ask these questions. If a loved one or close friend is absent from heaven, the saved will get the chance to understand God’s decision more fully. In a new way, the saved will understand how much God tried to save every person who ever lived. The saved will understand that the lost missed out on heaven because of their own personal choice. When the saved finish inspecting God’s work as Judge, then, and only then, will God punish evil people with the second death. The second death means the lost will be destroyed forever. They won’t come back to life again.

`What happens at the end of the 1,000 years in heaven? What happens to Satan and his followers?`

For 1,000 years, Satan has no one to trick or lead into sin. Satan and his angels have been all alone during this time. They’ve had 1,000 years to think about sin and the evil that it causes. At the end of 1,000 years, God wakes up the evil dead (Revelation 20:5). Then God gives them their final reward.

When God wakes up the evil dead, Satan feels hope. Now he can build an army. Satan lost fight after fight in the worldwide war between good and evil. But with a big army, Satan thinks he can win the war against God. Satan goes out to lie to the lost who woke up from the dead. Satan tricks them into believing they can fight one final battle against God. Satan promises them that when they win, they can set up their own kingdom. The words “Gog and Magog” are a symbol for Satan and the lost from all ages in history. Satan and his army go “all around the camp of God’s people and the city his people loved” (Revelation 20:9, WE).

At the end of the 1,000 years, the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, comes down to earth from heaven (Revelation 21:2)! God also comes. So does Jesus, the angels, and all the saved. Everyone is there for the final fight between God and Satan. Sin is about to be destroyed forever!