---
title:  The Final Reward For The Lost
date:   27/06/2024
---

`Why does God wake up the lost from the dead? Read 2 Corinthians 5:10; Romans 14:10, 11; and Revelation 20:11–15 for the answer.`

God must solve the sin problem forever so that evil never happens again. Everyone must be convinced that God was a fair Judge. In the end, everyone shall bow to God in agreement that He was fair in everything He did in the fight between good and evil. Satan and his evil angels will bow down, too. They will agree that they had no reason to fight against God.

“The books of record are open. Jesus looks at the lost. The lost remember every sin they did. They know just where in their past they rejected a holy and clean life. They see how much their pride and fighting against God caused them to break His law. The lost see how much they loved to do sin. They see the wrong use of the blessings that God gave them. They remember how they hated God’s messengers. They hated His warnings. They see how they rejected His mercy because their hearts were stubborn. They were not sorry for their sins. The lost see all these things as if they were written in letters of fire. . . .

“All the lost from Adam’s time until the end times stand in front of God. They are guilty of fighting against the government of heaven. The lost have no one to help them. They have no excuse for their crimes. God announces their punishment: everlasting death.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 666, 668.

`Read Revelation 20:9; Psalm 37:20; and Malachi 4:1, 2. What do these verses tell us about the reward God gives to His people? What will be the end of sin and sinners?`

Satan and his evil angels will be destroyed in the lake of fire. Sin and sinners will burn up. Revelation 20:9, 10 tells us that Satan, his evil angels, and sinners “will be punished day and night forever and ever” (ICB). Does this mean that they will never stop burning? Of course not! Yes, “forever and ever” always means endless, but only until something is completely finished. So, “forever and ever” means that when the lost burn up, they can’t come back to life. They will be destroyed forever. But they don’t keep burning forever without end.