---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   28/06/2024
---

On the new earth “the plains are wide. They become hills that are beautiful. The mountains of God are tall. God’s people will make their homes on those peaceful plains, next to streams of water. . . .

“There, our minds will study the things God has made. Our joy will never end as we study about God’s saving love. Satan will not be there to cause us to forget God. We will use every skill and talent that God gave us. Our minds and bodies will not grow tired from our study. There, we will make plans and succeed at everything we choose to do. When we are done with those tasks, we will have new things to try and do. There will be new wonders for us to look at. We will discover new truths and new objects to study. We will need to use all the strength of our minds, spirits, and bodies to study these new things.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 675, 677, adapted.

“God’s children will talk with people from other planets. These people have never sinned. The feelings of hap­piness that God’s children feel when they talk with these perfect people is something that no one can put into words. These people from other planets will share their wisdom and joy with the saved from planet Earth. The people from other planets have many treasures of knowledge and understanding. They have gotten this knowledge from endless ages of thinking about all the beautiful things in nature that God has made. The saved now look with perfect eyesight at the beauty of all that God has made: suns, stars, and planets. All these things in outer space circle the throne of heaven. God’s name is written in all things, from the smallest to the biggest. The saved see God’s riches and powerful might in everything.”—The Great Controversy, pages 677, 678, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why do you think God allowed sin to go on so long?`

`How does the 1,000 years fit into God’s plan to save sinners? We saw that God will not punish the lost until all the saved have a chance to examine God’s decisions as Judge first. What does this Bible truth tell us about God’s love and how fair He is?`