---
title:  Jesus, Our Obedient Brother
date:  15/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Leviticus 25:25–27, 47–49; Hebrews 11:24–26; 1 Corinthians 15:50; Hebrews 12:1–4.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “God’s children all have a body. That is why Jesus himself had the same [body]. But because Jesus also had a body, he was able to die and stop the devil. The devil has power to make people die. But Jesus, by his own death, was able to stop the power of death” (Hebrews 2:14, WE).

HEBREWS 1 says that Jesus is the Son of God. Jesus is in charge of the angels. Jesus “shines as bright as God. He is just like [the same as] God himself” (Hebrews 1:3, WE). In Hebrews 2, Jesus is the Son of Man. For a short time, God made Jesus a little lower than the angels (Hebrews 2:7). Jesus became a Man with all our human weaknesses and dies.

In Hebrews 1, God says to Jesus: “ ‘You are My Son’ ” (Hebrews 1:5, NLV). In Hebrews 2, Jesus says that humans are “my brothers and sisters” (Hebrews 2:12, ERV).

In Hebrews 1, the Father announces that Jesus is God and King (Hebrews 1:8–12). In Hebrews 2, the Son says He will trust in God (Hebrews 2:13).

In Hebrews 1, Jesus is God, the One who made us, keeps us alive, and is our King. In Hebrews 2, Jesus is the human high priest, or religious leader. He will never fail us.

In short, Jesus the Son shows us Jesus our Brother. The work of Jesus our Brother shows us the most perfect picture of God, who loves us and made us (Hebrews 1:1–4).