---
title:  Brother And Savior 
date:  16/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read what Moses says in Leviticus 25:25–27, 47–49. In these verses, who does Moses say can free a person who sold himself to pay a loan? Who also can buy back land for the family member who sold his land to pay the money he owes?

The law of Moses talks about the person who must sell his land or himself because he is poor. The poor man will get back his land or his freedom in 50 years. The 50th year was a special Sabbath year. At this time, people freed their slaves and gave them back their land.

But 50 years is a long time to wait. That is why the law of Moses said that the nearest male family member can pay the money that the poor man owes. Then the poor man can be free from the loan or slavery much sooner.

When someone is killed, his nearest male family member also must become his avenger. Then the avenger must go after the killer and punish him (Deuteronomy 19:11–13).

`Read Hebrews 2:14–16. What do these verses say about both Jesus and us?`

Hebrews 2:14–16 and shows us that we are slaves of the devil. But Jesus is the One who buys us from slavery and makes us free. When Adam sinned, humans became the slaves of Satan. We no longer can do what is right and good on our own (Romans 7:14–24). Worse, the paycheck for sin is death. We cannot pay this penalty ourselves (Romans 6:23). So, on our own, we have no hope without Jesus.

Jesus became human, the same as us. He became our close male family member to save us. Jesus is not ashamed to say we are His “brothers and sisters” (Hebrews 2:11, ERV).

Here is an interesting thought: when Jesus became human, He also showed us, at the same time, that He was God. In the Old Testament, the real Savior of Israel, or close male family member, is Yahweh (read Psalm 19:14, Isaiah 41:14; Isaiah 43:14; Isaiah 44:22; Jeremiah 31:11; Hosea 13:14). Yahweh is another name for God.

`Just how close can Jesus be to you? What has been your experience? Why is your having this experience so important to your faith?`