---
title:  He Is Not Ashamed To Call Them Brothers 
date:  17/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Jesus is not ashamed to call us His brothers and sisters (Hebrews 2:11). Jesus is One with God. But He loved us so much He that made us part of His family in heaven. Compare this love with the public shame that the Christians suffered in their communities (Hebrews 10:33).

`Read about Moses in Hebrews 11:24–26. How do the decisions that Moses made show us what Jesus did for us?`

Moses was “called the son of Pharaoh’s [King of Egypt’s] daughter” (Hebrews 11:24, ERV). Moses was a powerful man in the most powerful kingdom on earth at the time. Moses got the best education and military training. Stephen tells us “ ‘the Egyptians taught Moses everything they knew. He was powerful in all he said and did’ ” (Acts 7:22, ERV). Ellen G. White says that Moses was “a favorite leader of the soldiers in the Egyptian army.” Pharaoh also loved Moses, his adopted grandson. Ellen White tells us that Pharaoh “wanted to make Moses king after him” (read Patriarchs and Prophets, page 245, adapted). Moses gave up all this honor and fame when he chose to be part of the people of God. The Israelites were slaves. They had no education. They were not a powerful people at all.

`What does God ask from us? For the answer, read Matthew 10:32, 33; 2 Timothy 1:8, 12; and Hebrews 13:12–15.`

The Christians suffered much. They were hurt and shamed in public. So, they started to feel ashamed of Jesus. Now, Paul warns the Christians they are in danger of “nailing him [Jesus] to the cross again, shaming him before everyone” (Hebrews 6:6). So, Paul keeps telling his readers to continue to trust in Jesus (Hebrews 4:14; Hebrew 10:23).

God wants us to accept Jesus as our God and our brother. As our Savior, Jesus paid the penalty for our sins. As our Brother, Jesus shows us the way we should live. God made us to “be like [the same as] His Son. Christ [Jesus] was first and all those [people] who belong to God are His brothers” (Romans 8:29, NLV).

`Jesus chose to do what was necessary to make us His brothers and sisters. What does His decision teach us about His wonderful love for us?`