---
title:  Flesh And Blood The Same As Us 
date:  18/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Hebrews says that Jesus became human. As a human, Jesus can help us and die for us (Hebrews 2:9, 14–16; Hebrews 10:5–10). This Bible truth is the most important part of the plan God made to save us. This Bible truth also gives us our only hope for everlasting life.

`Read Matthew 16:17; Galatians 1:16; 1 Corinthians 15:50; and Ephesians 6:12. These verses talk about human weakness. What are some weaknesses we as sinners have?`

“Flesh and blood” (Ephesians 6:12, KJV) is a word picture for sinners and their weaknesses. As sinners, we do not understand spiritual things as we should (Matthew 16:17; Galatians 1:16). Because of sin, we also die (1 Corinthians 15:50). Hebrews says that Jesus was made the same as His brothers “in all things” (Hebrews 2:17). These words show us that Jesus became completely human. Jesus did not only look human. He really was human, the same as us.

But Hebrews also says that Jesus was different from us: Jesus did not sin (Hebrews 4:15). Jesus “is holy. He is good. He has never done any wrong” (Hebrews 7:26, WE). As sinners, our hearts are evil. We are born the slaves of sin. Paul says “the Law is right and good, but I am a person who does what is wrong and bad. I am not my own boss. Sin is my boss” (Romans 7:14, NLV; read also Romans 7:15–20). Jesus came as our Savior. He offered Himself to God for our sins. “He is holy. He has no sin in him. He is pure [clean; without guilt]” (Hebrews 7:26–28, ERV).

Now God can forgive us and accept us because Jesus lived an obedient life and then offered Himself for our sins (Hebrews 2:14–17). Jesus also keeps the promises in the New Agreement. He writes His law in our hearts (Hebrews 8:10). He gives us the strength to live holy lives. Jesus beat the enemy for us, too. Jesus made us free from sin. He gives us power over sin in our lives. Now we can “serve the living God” (Hebrews 9:14, NIrV). Yes, Jesus beat the devil and sin. But we must wait for a time before Satan is destroyed. Satan will be destroyed forever when God finishes His final work as Judge (Revelation 20:1–3, 10).

`Jesus promises to help us win the war against sin. So, why do we fight against sin and fail? What are we doing wrong? How can we live the life that Jesus wants for us?`