---
title:  Jesus Is Made Perfect By Suffering 
date:  19/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 2:10, 17, 18 and Hebrews 5:8, 9. Why did Jesus suffer? How was His suffering an important part of the plan of God to save sinners?`

Paul says that God “made Jesus a perfect Savior through [by] his suffering” (Hebrews 2:10, ERV). This verse is surprising. Paul already told us that Jesus “shines as bright as God. He is just like [the same as] God himself” (Hebrews 1:3, WE). Paul also tells us that Jesus “did not sin” (Hebrews 4:15, NIrV). Jesus “is holy. He has no sin in him” (Hebrews 7:26–28, ERV). Jesus “gave Himself as a perfect gift to God” (Hebrews 9:14, NLV; read also Hebrews 10:5–10). So, if Jesus did not sin, why did He need to be made perfect by suffering?

The Bible tells us the answer: “Jesus was God’s Son. But by suffering he learned what it means to obey. In this way he was made perfect. Eternal [everlasting] salvation [the plan of God to save us from sin] comes from him. He saves all those [people] who obey him” (Hebrews 5:8, 9 NIrV). So, suffering made Jesus fit to save us.

Let us look at three ways that suffering made Jesus fit to be our Savior and High Priest, or religious leader:

1. God made “Jesus a perfect Leader by having Him suffer for men’s sins” (Hebrews 2:10). The death of Jesus allowed God to save us and show us mercy. Jesus is the only One who can make that mercy possible. As God, Jesus can judge us. As our sin offering, Jesus also can save us.
2. Suffering taught Jesus how to obey (Hebrews 5:8). Why did Jesus need to learn obedience? First, the obedience of Jesus made it possible for God to accept the death of Jesus for our sins (Hebrews 9:14; Hebrews 10:5–10). Second, the sufferings of Jesus helped Him to become our Example (Hebrews 5:9). So, Jesus “learned” obedience because obedience was a new experience for Him. As God, did Jesus need to obey anyone? Of course not! Everyone obeyed Jesus, the King of heaven and the everlasting Son. But to save us, the powerful Son of God became the obedient Son of Man.
3. The suffering of Jesus shows us that He is a High Priest we can trust (Hebrews 2:17, 18). He is full of mercy. Suffering did not fill Jesus with more mercy for us. The mercy already in His heart caused Jesus to volunteer to die for us (Hebrews 10:5–10; compare with Romans 5:7, 8). The suffering of Jesus shows us His love as a Brother.