---
title:  The Brother As Our Example 
date:  20/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Another reason why Jesus became human and lived as a Man was to be our Example. Jesus is the only One who can show us the right way to live.

`Read Hebrews 12:1–4. In these verses, Paul compares the Christian life to a race. How does Paul say we should run this race?`

In these verses, Jesus is the final name in a long list of people who show us faith. Paul says that Jesus “is the leader of our faith, and he is the one who makes our faith complete” (Hebrews 12:2, ERV). The word written as “leader” comes from the Greek word “archegos.” “Archegos” also can be written as “pioneer.” Jesus is the pioneer of the race we must run as Christians. Jesus runs ahead of us to show us the way. Hebrews 6:20 says that Jesus went ahead of us to make a way for us to God. The words “the one who makes our faith complete” teaches us that Jesus showed the strongest faith in God possible. Hebrews 12:1–4 also teaches us Jesus is the first one who ran the race with success. Jesus shows us what living by faith is all about.

In Hebrews 2:13, Paul writes words from Isaiah 8:17, 18. In these verses from Isaiah, Jesus talks to His Father: “And again He says, ‘I will put My trust in God.’ At another time He said, ‘Here I am with the children God gave Me’ ” (Hebrews 2:13, NLV; read also Isaiah 8:17, 18).

Isaiah says these words just before the kings of Northern Israel and Syria join their armies. Together, these kings planned to enter the Kingdom of Judah by force (Isaiah 7:1, 2). Isaiah showed faith in God at this time. But King Ahaz showed no faith in God (2 Kings 16:5–18). God promised to protect Ahaz as His own son. God says Ahaz may ask Him for a sign to show him that God will keep His promise. Ahaz refuses. Ahaz sends messengers to Tiglath-pileser, the king of Assyria, with a message: “ ‘I am your servant and your son’ ” (2 Kings 16:7, NLV). How sad! Ahaz wishes to be a son of his enemy and not the son of God.

Jesus is different than Ahaz. Jesus puts His trust in God and His promise. God promises Jesus that He will put His enemies under His control (Hebrews 1:13; Hebrews 10:12, 13). God makes the same promise to us. We need to believe God, too, just as Jesus did (Romans 16:20).