---
title:  Further Thought
date:  21/01/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Hebrews 2:13 shows us the words of Jesus. Jesus talks to His Father about His brothers and sisters: ‘Here I am with the children God gave Me” (Hebrews 2:13, NLV). Patrick Gray says that these verses show us that Jesus protects and takes care of His brothers and sisters. The Romans had a law that helps us understand this idea about Jesus. The Roman law is known as “tutela impuberum” in the Latin language. This law helped protect Roman children when their father died: “A schoolteacher became responsible for the children and their money until the children grew up. The schoolteacher was often an older brother of the children. This Roman law showed that the older brother had a duty to take care of his younger brothers and sisters.”—Godly Fear: The Letter to the Hebrews and Greco-Roman Critiques of Superstition [Atlanta: Society of Biblical Literature, 2003], page 126, adapted. This Roman law helps explain why Paul says we are both the brothers and sisters of Jesus and also His children. As our older Brother, Jesus is our Teacher. He is also the One who protects us.

“Jesus came to this earth as a Man. He became our Helper, who goes to the Father for us. Jesus did these things to show us an important Bible truth. In the worldwide war between God and Satan, we can obey every rule in the law of God if we connect ourselves with the Father and the Son.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 1, page 253, adapted.

“In His life and lessons, Jesus gave us a perfect example. He showed us how to work for God and not to be selfish. God does not live for Himself. Jesus made this earth and keeps everything going. These things show us that Jesus always works to help the people He made. ‘He makes his sun shine on both wrong and good people. He lets the rain fall on people who do right and on people who do wrong.’ Matthew 5:45 [WE]. God gave His Son this work of keeping everything alive. God also made Jesus our Leader. In these things, Jesus shows us how not to be selfish. The perfect example of Jesus teaches us how we should serve God and other people.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 649, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Hebrews tells us that Jesus became our Brother to save us. What does this Bible truth show us that God did to save us? How does your answer help you to see why refusing His mercy is an awful mistake?`

`How does the story about Moses help us understand, in a small way, what Jesus did for us and continues to do now?`