---
title:  Facing the Past
date:  08/08/2021
---

Eventually, things moved in the right direction for Joseph, big time. He not only got out of prison, but he also was made prime minister of Egypt after interpreting Pharaoh’s dreams (Genesis 41). He was married and had two children of his own (Gen. 41:50–52). The storehouses of Egypt were full, and the predicted famine had begun. And then, one day, Joseph’s brothers turned up in Egypt.

`Read about the first encounter between Joseph and his brothers since they sold him into slavery in Genesis 42:7–20. Why the elaborate plot? What was Joseph trying to do with this first meeting?`

Joseph had the power and could have taken his revenge on his brothers without having to justify himself. But, rather than revenge, Joseph was concerned about the members of his family at home. He was worried about his father. Was he still alive, or had a dysfunctional famil­y become a family without a patriarch? And what about his brother Benjamin? As his father’s delight and joy, Benjamin was now in the same position that Joseph had been. Had the brothers transferred their dangerous jealousy to Benjamin? Joseph was now in a position to look out for these vulnerable people in his family, and he did just that.

Practicing biblical principles in our relationships will not mean that we ever can or should accept abuse. Each one of us is precious in God’s sight. Jesus paid the ultimate price on the cross for each one of us.

`Why does Jesus take abuse or neglect of others so personally? Read Matthew 25:41–46.`

We have all been bought through Jesus’ blood, and legally we are all His. Anyone who is abusive is attacking Jesus’ property.

Sexual abuse and emotional or physical violence are never to be a part of family dynamics. This is not just private family business to be resolved internally. This will require outside help and intervention. If you or someone in your family is being abused, please get help from a trusted professional.

`What are some biblical principles that you need to apply to whatever difficult family relationships you are now experiencing?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Hearing of the abundant provision made by the king of Egypt, ten of Jacob’s sons journeyed thither to purchase grain. On their arrival they were directed to the king’s deputy, and with other applicants they came to present themselves before the ruler of the land. And they “bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth.” … As Joseph saw his brothers stooping and making obeisance, his dreams came to his mind, and the scenes of the past rose vividly before him. His keen eye, surveying the group, discovered that Benjamin was not among them. Had he also fallen a victim to the treacherous cruelty of those savage men? He determined to learn the truth. …

… He wished to learn if they possessed the same haughty spirit as when he was with them, and also to draw from them some information in regard to their home; yet he well knew how deceptive their statements might be.—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, pp. 224, 225.

The servants of Christ are not to act out the dictates of the natural heart. They need to have close communion with God, lest, under provocation, self rise up, and they pour forth a torrent of words that are unbefitting, that are not as dew or the still showers that refresh the withering plants. This is what Satan wants them to do; for these are his methods. It is the dragon that is wroth; it is the spirit of Satan that is revealed in anger and accusing. But God’s servants are to be representatives of Him. He desires them to deal only in the currency of heaven, the truth that bears His own image and superscription. The power by which they are to overcome evil is the power of Christ. The glory of Christ is their strength. They are to fix their eyes upon His loveliness. … And the spirit that is kept gentle under provocation will speak more effectively in favor of the truth than will any argument, however forcible.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 353.

Christ is our only hope. We may look to Him, for He is our Saviour. We may take Him at His word, and make Him our dependence. He knows just the help we need, and we can safely put our trust in Him. If we depend on merely human wisdom to guide us, we shall find ourselves on the losing side. But we may come direct to the Lord Jesus, for He has said: “Come unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy-laden, and I will give you rest. Take My yoke upon you, and learn of Me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.” It is our privilege to be taught of Him. …

We have a divine audience to which to present our requests. Then let nothing prevent us from offering our petitions in the name of Jesus, believing with unwavering faith that God hears us, and that He will answer us. Let us carry our difficulties to God, humbling ourselves before Him.—_Testimonies to Ministers and Gospel Workers_, pp. 486, 487.