---
title:  Setting the Stage
date:  09/08/2021
---

Joseph had forgiven his brothers. We don’t know exactly when Joseph forgave them, but it was obviously long before they showed up. Joseph probably would never have thrived in Egypt if he had not forgiven because, most likely, the anger and bitterness would have eaten away at his soul and damaged his relations with the Lord.

Several studies of survivors of tragedy inflicted on them by others have highlighted the fact that for victims of the most horrible suffering, forgiveness was a key factor to find healing and to get their lives together again. Without forgiveness, we remain victims. Forgiveness has more to do with ourselves than with the person or persons who have wronged us.

Even though Joseph had forgiven his brothers, he was not willing to let the family relationships pick up where he had left them—that is, at the dry pit at Dothan. He had to see if anything had changed.

`What did Joseph overhear? Read Genesis 42:21–24. What did he learn about his brothers?`

All communication had been taking place through an interpreter, and so Joseph’s brothers were unaware that he could understand them. Joseph heard his brothers’ confession. The brothers had thought that by getting rid of Joseph, they would be free from his reporting to their father. They thought that they would not have to put up with his dreams or watch him revel in the role of being their father’s favorite. But instead of finding rest, they had been plagued by a guilty conscience all those years. Their deed had led to restlessness and a paralyzing fear of God’s retribution. Joseph actually felt sorry for their suffering. He wept for them.

Joseph knew that the famine would still last several more years, and so he insisted that they bring Benjamin back with them the next time they came to buy grain (Gen. 42:20). He also kept Simeon hostage (Gen. 42:24).

After seeing that Benjamin was still alive, he organized a feast in which he obviously showed favoritism to Benjamin (Gen. 43:34) to see if the old patterns of jealousy were still there. The brothers didn’t show any signs of being jealous, but Joseph knew how cunning they could be. After all, they did deceive a whole town (Gen. 34:13), and he surely figured that they must have lied to their own father about his fate (Gen. 37:31–34). So, he devised one more major test. (See Genesis 44.)

`Read Genesis 45:1–15. What does this tell us about how Joseph felt about his brothers and the forgiveness he had given them? What lessons should we take away from this story for ourselves?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[Joseph’s] brothers stood motionless, dumb with fear and amazement. The ruler of Egypt their brother Joseph, whom they had envied and would have murdered, and finally sold as a slave! All their ill treatment of him passed before them. They remembered how they had despised his dreams and had labored to prevent their fulfillment. …

Seeing their confusion, he said kindly, “Come near to me, I pray you;” and as they came near, he continued, “I am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt. Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye sold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve life.” Feeling that they had already suffered enough for their cruelty toward him, he nobly sought to banish their fears and lessen the bitterness of their self-reproach. …

… “And he fell upon his brother Benjamin’s neck, and wept; and Benjamin wept upon his neck. Moreover he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them: and after that his brethren talked with him.” They humbly confessed their sin and entreated his forgiveness. They had long suffered anxiety and remorse, and now they rejoiced that he was still alive.—_Patriarchs and Prophets_, pp. 230, 231.

Although Joseph was exalted as a ruler over all the land, yet he did not forget God. He knew that he was a stranger in a strange land, separated from his father and his brethren, which often caused him sadness, but he firmly believed that God’s hand had overruled his course, to place him in an important position. And depending on God continually, he performed all the duties of his office, as ruler over the land of Egypt with faithfulness. …

[When his brothers] humbly confessed their wrongs which they had committed against Joseph, and entreated his forgiveness, [they] greatly rejoiced to find that he was alive; for they had suffered remorse, and great distress of mind, since their cruelty toward him. And now as they knew that they were not guilty of his blood, their troubled minds were relieved.

Joseph gladly forgave his brethren, and sent them away abundantly provided with provisions, and carriages, and everything necessary for the removal of their father’s family and their own to Egypt. Joseph gave his brother Benjamin more valuable presents than to his other brethren. As he sent them away he charged them, “See that ye fall not out by the way.” He was afraid that they might enter into a dispute, and charge upon one another the cause of their guilt in regard to their cruel treatment of himself. With joy they returned to their father.—_Spiritual Gifts_, vol. 3, pp. 152, 167.

Jesus knows the circumstances of every soul. You may say, I am sinful, very sinful. You may be; but the worse you are, the more you need Jesus. He turns no weeping, contrite one away. He does not tell to any all that He might reveal, but He bids every trembling soul take courage. Freely will He pardon all who come to Him for forgiveness and restoration.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 568.