---
title:  Further Thought
date:  13/08/2021
---

“As Joseph was sold to the heathen by his own brothers, so Christ was sold to His bitterest enemies by one of His disciples. Joseph was falsely accused and thrust into prison because of his virtue; so Christ was despised and rejected because His righteous, self-­denying life was a rebuke to sin; and though guilty of no wrong, He was condemned upon the testimony of false witnesses. And Joseph’s patience and meekness under injustice and oppression, his ready forgiveness and noble benevolence toward his unnatural brothers, represent the Saviour’s uncomplaining endurance of the malice and abuse of wicked men, and His forgiveness, not only of His murderers, but of all who have come to Him confessing their sins and seeking pardon.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 239, 240.

“Nothing can justify an unforgiving spirit. He who is unmerciful toward others shows that he himself is not a partaker of God’s pardoning grace. In God’s forgiveness the heart of the erring one is drawn close to the great heart of Infinite Love. The tide of divine compassion flows into the sinner’s soul, and from him to the souls of others. The tenderness and mercy that Christ has revealed in His own precious life will be seen in those who become sharers of His grace.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 251.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Someone once said, “Not forgiving is like drinking poison while hoping that the other person will die.” What does this statement mean?`

`What was the purpose of all the elaborate plans Joseph went through prior to the disclosure of his identity? What did this do for him and for his brothers?`

`Joseph’s steward must have been in on some of the plots regarding Joseph’s brothers (e.g., Gen. 44:1–12). How does the experience of forgiveness affect those who are just observers?`

`“God never leads His children otherwise than they would choose to be led, if they could see the end from the beginning, and discern the glory of the purpose which they are fulfilling as co-workers with Him.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 224, 225. Think of your own life as you contemplate this statement. How could understanding this help us work through many of the trials and struggles that we face?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Gospel Workers_, “How God Trains His Workers,” pp. 269, 270;

_Sons and Daughters of God_, “In Forgiveness,” p. 153.