---
title:  Further Thought
date:  27/10/2023
---

“Love for perishing souls inspired Abraham’s prayer. While he loathed the sins of that corrupt city, he desired that the sinners might be saved. His deep interest for Sodom shows the anxiety that we should feel for the impenitent. We should cherish hatred of sin, but pity and love for the sinner. All around us are souls going down to ruin as hopeless, as terrible, as that which befell Sodom. Every day the probation of some is closing. Every hour some are passing beyond the reach of mercy. And where are the voices of warning and entreaty to bid the sinner flee from this fearful doom? Where are the hands stretched out to draw him back from death? Where are those who with humility and persevering faith are pleading with God for him?

“The spirit of Abraham was the spirit of Christ. The Son of God is Himself the great Intercessor in the sinner’s behalf. He who has paid the price for its redemption knows the worth of the human soul. With an antagonism to evil such as can exist only in a nature spotlessly pure, Christ manifested toward the sinner a love which infinite goodness alone could conceive. In the agonies of the crucifixion, Himself burdened with the awful weight of the sins of the whole world, He prayed for His revilers and murderers, ‘Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.’ Luke 23:34.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 140.

“Abraham was honored by the surrounding nations as a mighty prince and a wise and able chief. He did not shut away his influence from his neighbors. His life and character, in their marked contrast with those of the worshipers of idols, exerted a telling influence in favor of the true faith. His allegiance to God was unswerving, while his affability and benevolence inspired confidence and friendship and his unaffected greatness commanded respect and honor.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, pp.  133, 134.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What other examples from Scripture show us an individual who fulfilled his call to mission? What about John the Baptist? Would you call him successful?`

`Read Genesis 19:30–36. What does this tell us about the character of some of those saved from Sodom?`

`What other lessons can we learn from the example of Abraham regarding mission and how it is done?`

`Think about this: Would you deem Abraham’s intercession for Sodom and Gomorrah successful or a failure?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Lift Him Up, “Love—The Evidence of Discipleship,” p. 298;\
The Upward Look, “Courage in the Lord,” p. 266.