---
title:  Further Thought
date:  01/09/2023
---

Ellen G. White, “Responsibilities of Married Life,” Testimonies for the Church, vol. 7, pp. 45–50, and “Mutual Obligations,” The Adventist Home, pp. 114–120.

Ellen G. White consistently urges marriage partners to turn away from efforts to control the other: “Do not try to compel each other to yield to your wishes. You cannot do this and retain each other’s love. Be kind, patient, and forbearing, considerate, and courteous.”—The Adventist Home, p. 118.

She comments directly on the interpretation and application of Colossians 3:18 (and Eph. 5:22–24): “The question is often asked, ‘Shall a wife have no will of her own?’ The Bible plainly states that the husband is the head of the family. ‘Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands.’ If this injunction ended here, we might say that the position of the wife is not an enviable one. . . . Many husbands stop at the words, ‘Wives, submit yourselves,’ but we will read the conclusion of the same injunction, which is, ‘As it is fit in the Lord’ [Col. 3:18]. God requires that the wife shall keep the fear and glory of God ever before her. Entire submission is to be made only to the Lord Jesus Christ, who has purchased her as His own child by the infinite price of His life. . . . There is One who stands higher than the husband to the wife; it is her Redeemer, and her submission to her husband is to be rendered as God has directed—‘as it is fit in the Lord.’ ”—The Adventist Home, pp. 115, 116.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Imagine someone arguing that Ephesians 5:21–33 is an outmoded passage that no longer addresses Christian relationships since it enforces a model of marriage focused on the authority and domination of the husband. How would you respond? What elements from the passage itself would inform your response?`

`What might Paul’s counsel in Ephesians 5:21–33 have to offer to those who find themselves in challenging and difficult marriage relationships?`

`Some Christians argue that the Creation story in Genesis 1 and 2 is a mere metaphor and that it doesn’t come close to depicting what really happened, which was billions of years of evolution. What does Paul’s use of the story teach us about how literally he took it?`

`Dwell more on the theme of “one flesh.” How does this help us better understand the sanctity of marriage and why married couples must do everything possible to protect that sanctity?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In Heavenly Places, “Would You Be Ready?” p. 356;\
Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, “Is It Lawful for a Man to Put Away His Wife?” pp. 63–65.