---
title:  What Is Jesus Doing Right Now in Heaven?
date:   28/04/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Romans 8:3; John 1:29; Revelation 5:12; Hebrews 7:1–28; Hebrews 9:11–15.  

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “God lifted Jesus high above everything else. He gave Him a name that is greater [above; more important] than any other name. So when the name of Jesus is spoken, everyone in heaven and on earth and under the earth will bow down before Him” (Philippians 2:9, 10, NLV).
 
The book of Hebrews talks about Jesus’ work in God’s sanctuary. God’s sanctuary is the place in heaven where God is worshiped and where His throne is. “That is where Jesus has gone” (Hebrews 6:20, NIrV). “He has become our Religious Leader forever and has made the way for man to go to God” (Hebrews 6:20, NLV). The Bible shows Jesus as our High Priest. A High Priest is someone who works to save His people. Jesus became our High Priest after He finished His work for us on earth (read Hebrews 10:12).

This week, we will learn about Jesus’ work as our High Priest. We will look at the work He does to help His people get ready for the last days. Ellen G. White writes: “What if God’s people do not understand Jesus’ work as their High Priest in the sanctuary? Then they will not be able to have the faith they need at this time. They will not be able to do the work God gave them to do.”—The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], page 488, adapted. 

What is Jesus doing for us right now in the sanctuary in heaven? And why is knowing about Jesus’ work there so important for us to understand in these last days?