---
title:  God’s Best Gift to Humans
date:   29/04/2018
---

We must study all about Jesus’ death for us. Studying about Jesus’ death will help get us ready for the Second Coming. Often humans look ahead to see how their plans will work out. That makes sense. But it is also good to understand that, as Christians, we need to look “behind” us too. We need to look behind us at the Cross. Jesus’ victory there for us can never be taken away from us. His victory helps us to be sure about our faith as we face what is ahead of us too.

`Read Romans 8:3; 1 Timothy 1:17; 1 Timothy 6:16; 1 Corinthians 15:33. Why did God send His Son to die?`

God sent Jesus to us to die for our sins. God sent Jesus in a human body to judge against sin. What does that mean? It means that Jesus had to become a human to save us. As God, Jesus could not die. So, He was born in a body the same as ours. The human body can die. So, Jesus became human so that He could win the war over sin for us and die in our place on the cross.

True, Jesus has always been God. He continued to be God, even after He “was born as a man” (Philippians 2:7, ICB). He “gave up His important place and obeyed by dying on a cross” (Philippians 2:8, NLV). How did that part of Jesus that was God not die when Jesus’ body died on the cross? The answer to that question is a mystery. Only God knows the answer. We also do not understand how that part of Jesus that was God stayed quiet during the nine months Jesus spent in Mary’s womb. The womb is the part of a woman’s body where her baby grows inside her until it is ready to be born. Here is something else about Jesus that is amazing: Jesus never used His power as God to help Him do His work when He lived as a Human on this earth.

`Read Luke 9:22. What does this verse tell us about why Jesus died for us?`

Jesus was born to die. His death for us comes from a love no other love can match. No one in heaven saw anything to match it. Even now, no one fully understands this love.

`What does the Cross tell us about how our own good works can never be good enough to save us?`
