---
title:  The Lamb of God
date:   30/04/2018
---

`Read John 1:29; Revelation 5:12; and Revelation 13:8. What word picture do we find in these verses? How does this word picture help us to understand God’s plan to save us?`

John the Baptist named Jesus the Lamb of God. This name points to the Hebrew sanctuary. The Hebrew sanctuary was the place where God was worshiped in Old Testament times. John also used the name “Lamb of God” to point the minds of God’s people to Jesus’ death for their sins. All the lambs and animals ever killed in the Hebrew plan of worship pointed to Jesus’ death on the cross. Jesus’ death was a perfect gift. It offered God everything He needed to forgive us for breaking His law and to accept us again as His children. We can read the story about how Jesus was the Lamb of God who takes away our sins. This story is found in the Gospels. The Gospels are the first four books of the New Testament: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.  

But Jesus’ story and His work to save us do not end in the Gospels. Jesus’ story does not end with His death and His coming back to life either. We can read more about Jesus’ story in the book of Hebrews.

The book of Hebrews talks about the work Jesus does as our High Priest (Hebrews 1:3). A High Priest is someone who works to save His people. As our High Priest, Jesus works to save us. Jesus became our High Priest after He took our place on the cross and died for our sins. Jesus was the Lamb that God offered on the cross for our sins. Then Jesus woke up from the dead. He went to heaven and entered the sanctuary. The sanctuary is the place in heaven where God is worshiped and where His throne is. There, Jesus now works to save us and get us ready to live with Him in heaven. Hebrews 7:1–28 talks more about Jesus’ work for us in the sanctuary and the things He is doing for us.

`What does Hebrews 7:1–28 tell us about Jesus?` 

These verses in Hebrews are deep and rich with meaning. The verses tell us that Jesus is better than all the priests who came from Aaron and who worked in the Hebrew sanctuary on earth. We now have God as our High Priest. So now, when we think about Jesus, we can think about Him as our High Priest working for us in heaven.