---
title:  Jesus Our Helper
date:   02/05/2018
---

Sin caused an awful separation between God and humans. But Jesus’ death on the cross brings humans back to God. Jesus’ death lets sinners come near to God again.

`“Our hope is certain [sure]. It is something for the soul to hold on to. It is strong and secure [safe]. It goes all the way into the Most Holy Room behind the curtain. That is where Jesus has gone. He went there to open the way ahead of us. He has become a high priest [the One who works to save us] forever, just like [the same as] Melchizedek” (Hebrews 6:19, 20, NIrV). Melchizedek was the king of Salem during Abraham’s time. As these verses show us, what has Jesus done for us?`

`Hebrews 9:24 talks about Jesus’ work for us right now in heaven. What is He doing for us right now?`

Jesus is the One who “stand[s] in front of God for us” (Hebrews 9:24, NIrV). After He woke up from the dead, Jesus entered heaven’s sanctuary. Heaven’s sanctuary is the place in heaven where God is worshiped and where His throne is. There, Jesus offers to the Father the gift of His cleansing blood. It is the price God paid to buy us back from sin.

When we accept Jesus, our sins are forgiven. We stand before God forgiven and with no sin. But even after we become Christians, we may sin. Why do we sin? We sin because we do not trust in Jesus’ wonderful promises for victory over sin. When we sin, Jesus helps us. He works in heaven as our High Priest. A High Priest is someone who works to save His people. As our High Priest, Jesus stands before God for us. Jesus points to His own blood that He spilled for us. He does not point to any good thing we have done. We have done nothing good that can save us. Jesus asks our Father to save us because of what He, Jesus, has done for us. “So Christ [Jesus] can save those who come to God through [by faith in] him. Christ [Jesus] can do this forever, because he always lives and is ready to help people when they come before God” (Hebrews 7:25, ERV).

`Yes, we have new life in Jesus. But as born-again Christians, we understand our need for Jesus’ mercy and forgiveness all the time, right? So, why is knowing that Jesus is our High Priest very important to us?`
