---
title:  The Day God Makes His People Clean
date:   03/05/2018
---

The book of Hebrews talks about the Old Testament sanctuary. The Old Testament sanctuary was the place where God was worshiped in the wilderness before Solomon built God a temple. The book of Hebrews teaches us that the sanctuary on earth was a copy of the sanctuary in heaven. Both sanctuaries had two rooms. The Jewish worship plan for the sanctuary on earth included killing animals. Their deaths pointed to Jesus’ future death on the cross for sinners. The blood of these animals also made it necessary for the sanctuary to be made clean.

In the Jewish worship plan, the religious leaders, or high priests, did work in both rooms of the sanctuary. These two rooms are named the Holy Room and the Holiest Room of All. In the same way, Jesus’ work in the sanctuary in heaven also happens in both rooms. The first part of Jesus’ work for us happens in the Holy Room. The second part of Jesus’ work happens in the Holiest Room of All. That is the room where Jesus has been doing His work, since 1844, as Judge and High Priest. A High Priest is someone who works to save His people.

In the sanctuary on earth, Jesus’ work as Judge and High Priest was shown by the special work that the Jewish priests did on the Day of Cleansing. The Day of Cleansing was the one time during the year that the Jewish high priest entered the Most Holy Room in the sanctuary on earth. There, the Jewish high priest made God’s people and His sanctuary on earth clean from sin (Leviticus 16:12–14).

`Read Hebrews 9:20–23. What are the things that need to be made clean with blood? How does this need for making things clean show Jesus’ work as our High Priest during the Day of Cleansing, which is happening right now in heaven?`

Many Bible experts are surprised by the idea that the sanctuary in heaven needs to be made clean. Hebrews 9:23 shows us that the work the high priests did to make the sanctuary on earth clean was only a copy or “shadow [example]” of the work Jesus does now to make the sanctuary in heaven clean and His people holy. When we study the book of Daniel, we learn that Jesus’ work to make things clean began in the year 1844. We are now living in that time.
