---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   04/05/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “Daniel’s visions show us that the end of human history is connected to the Day of Cleansing. That Day is the time when Jesus makes all of God’s people clean. Jesus will do this work just before His Second Coming. Daniel’s visions also give the time when Jesus’ work in heaven will happen in human history. Jesus’ work in heaven also includes His work as our Judge. As our Judge, Jesus will show everyone in heaven and on earth that God’s people are innocent. He will free God’s people from all sin and guilt. Jesus also will prove that all of Satan’s lies about God are false.”—Handbook of Seventh-day Adventist Theology [the study about God] (Hagerstown, Md.: Review and Herald© Publishing Association, 2000), page 394, adapted.

“Before Jesus died on the cross, the sins of God’s people were put on the animal offered in place of their sins. Their sins were then carried by the blood of the animal into the sanctuary on earth. [The sanctuary on earth was the place where God was worshiped in the wilderness before Solomon built God a temple.] The animals’ blood was a word picture for Jesus’ blood. But after Jesus died, God made a New Agreement with everyone who accepted Jesus and refused to continue sinning. In the New Agreement, our past sins are, by faith, put on Jesus. Then Jesus carries these sins into the sanctuary in heaven. Jesus is our High Priest. [A High Priest is someone who works to save His people.] Just as sin made the sanctuary on earth dirty, sin makes the sanctuary in heaven dirty too. The high priests made the sanctuary on earth clean by removing the sins. In the same way, Jesus makes the sanctuary in heaven clean by removing the sins that are written down in His books. But before Jesus can remove the sins, He must examine His books first to see who believed in Him and stopped sinning. These people are the only ones who will be made clean from guilt. They are the only ones who will receive the gift of everlasting life and Jesus’ blood. His blood removes their sins.”—Ellen G. White, The Great [big] Controversy [war between God and Satan], pages 421, 422, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1.	What two things does Ellen G. White say will show who will receive the gift of Jesus’ blood to take away their sins? Why must we understand this truth?`

`2.	Read Leviticus 16:15, 16. What did the blood mean back then? What does the blood mean for us today?`
