src/en/2019-02-er/02/01.md, before:

---
title: 'Our Choices'
date: 06/04/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 1:1–4; 1 Thessalonians 5:17; Proverbs 12:26; Psalm 37:27; Ecclesiastes 2:1–11.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘You must decide whom you will serve. You may serve the gods that your people worshiped when they lived on the other side of the Euphrates River. Or you may serve the gods of the Amorites who lived in this land. As for me and my family, we will serve the Lord’ ” (Joshua 24:15, ICB).

**LIFE IS FULL OF CHOICES**. We make choices all day from the time we wake up until the time we go to bed. Each day, we make so many choices. It is hard to remember them all! 

Some choices are very easy for us to make. We make them again and again. Other choices are big. They can change our lives and our families. So, it is very important to think about our choices before we make them. Big or small, our choices can change our lives forever.

Did you ever make a choice you wish you did not make? We all have. Some of us live for a long time with the bad things that happen because of our choices. But there is good news! God forgives us. He saves us. He heals us even when we make the worst decisions of our lives.

This week, we will look at our choices. How do we make good choices? What difference will our choices make in our own lives and in the lives of other people?

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/02/01.md, after:

---
title: 'Our Choices'
date: 06/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 1:1–4; 1 Thessalonians 5:17; Proverbs 12:26; Psalm 37:27; Ecclesiastes 2:1–11.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘You must decide whom you will serve. You may serve the gods that your people worshiped when they lived on the other side of the Euphrates River. Or you may serve the gods of the Amorites who lived in this land. As for me and my family, we will serve the Lord’ ” (Joshua 24:15, ICB).

**LIFE IS FULL OF CHOICES**. We make choices all day from the time we wake up until the time we go to bed. Each day, we make so many choices. It is hard to remember them all! 

Some choices are very easy for us to make. We make them again and again. Other choices are big. They can change our lives and our families. So, it is very important to think about our choices before we make them. Big or small, our choices can change our lives forever.

Did you ever make a choice you wish you did not make? We all have. Some of us live for a long time with the bad things that happen because of our choices. But there is good news! God forgives us. He saves us. He heals us even when we make the worst decisions of our lives.

This week, we will look at our choices. How do we make good choices? What difference will our choices make in our own lives and in the lives of other people?
