src/en/2019-02-er/02/02.md, before:

---
title: 'God Made Us Free To Choose'
date: 07/04/2019
---

Some Christians believe that God decides who will be saved or lost before a person is born. These Christians think that no one can do anything to change God’s decision.

Seventh-day Adventists do not agree with this idea. We believe that God wants everyone to be saved. Before He made the earth, God chose us to have everlasting life.

`Ephesians 1:1–4; Titus 1:1, 2; and 2 Timothy 1:8, 9 tell us that God chose to save us. What do we learn about that choice from these verses? When did God choose to save us?`

This is wonderful news! But sadly, some people will be lost in the end (Matthew 25:41). Why? Because God gave us freedom to choose. This choice is a gift that God gave humans.

`What does Matthew 22:35–37 teach us about God’s gift, the freedom to make choices?`

God does not force us to love Him. Love is a choice. We choose to love other people. What if you were forced to love someone? That is not real love. The Bible shows us this idea about love is true. The Bible is one long story about God. The story is about how God tries to win our hearts with His love. Jesus’ own life shows us this truth. Some people chose to love Jesus. Other people wanted to kill Him. 

Yes, God chose to save us. He wants everyone to be saved too. But in the end, we have to make the choice to accept God’s offer to save us. The most important choice we ever can make is the choice to serve God.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/02/02.md, after:

---
title: 'God Made Us Free To Choose'
date: 07/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Some Christians believe that God decides who will be saved or lost before a person is born. These Christians think that no one can do anything to change God’s decision.

Seventh-day Adventists do not agree with this idea. We believe that God wants everyone to be saved. Before He made the earth, God chose us to have everlasting life.

`Ephesians 1:1–4; Titus 1:1, 2; and 2 Timothy 1:8, 9 tell us that God chose to save us. What do we learn about that choice from these verses? When did God choose to save us?`

This is wonderful news! But sadly, some people will be lost in the end (Matthew 25:41). Why? Because God gave us freedom to choose. This choice is a gift that God gave humans.

`What does Matthew 22:35–37 teach us about God’s gift, the freedom to make choices?`

God does not force us to love Him. Love is a choice. We choose to love other people. What if you were forced to love someone? That is not real love. The Bible shows us this idea about love is true. The Bible is one long story about God. The story is about how God tries to win our hearts with His love. Jesus’ own life shows us this truth. Some people chose to love Jesus. Other people wanted to kill Him. 

Yes, God chose to save us. He wants everyone to be saved too. But in the end, we have to make the choice to accept God’s offer to save us. The most important choice we ever can make is the choice to serve God.
