src/en/2019-02-er/02/03.md, before:

---
title: 'How Do We Make Good Choices'
date: 08/04/2019
---

We all know that it is very important for us to make good choices. We also know that wrong choices can hurt us and other people. So, how do we make good choices?

**The verses below give us important Bible rules. These rules help us make good decisions. What are these rules?**

`1. 1 Thessalonians 5:17; James 1:5`

`2. Isaiah 1:19; Matthew 7:24, 25`

`3. Psalm 119:105; 2 Timothy 3:16`

`4. Proverbs 3:5, 6; Isaiah 58:11`

`5. Proverbs 15:22; Proverbs 24:6`

Before we make decisions, we must pray. We must ask God to help us. God will help us make right choices. God will help us not to break His law or go against the Bible. So, we must trust God. We must pray that the choices we make will give God glory. What if our wishes go against God’s plan for our lives? Then we must be ready to give up what we want. Wise people can help us make good decisions too. God wants what is best for us. So, we must give our lives to Him. Then we can trust in the choices we make. 

`How do you make big choices in life? How do prayer and trust in God’s promises help you make good choices?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/02/03.md, after:

---
title: 'How Do We Make Good Choices'
date: 08/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We all know that it is very important for us to make good choices. We also know that wrong choices can hurt us and other people. So, how do we make good choices?

**The verses below give us important Bible rules. These rules help us make good decisions. What are these rules?**

`1. 1 Thessalonians 5:17; James 1:5`

`2. Isaiah 1:19; Matthew 7:24, 25`

`3. Psalm 119:105; 2 Timothy 3:16`

`4. Proverbs 3:5, 6; Isaiah 58:11`

`5. Proverbs 15:22; Proverbs 24:6`

Before we make decisions, we must pray. We must ask God to help us. God will help us make right choices. God will help us not to break His law or go against the Bible. So, we must trust God. We must pray that the choices we make will give God glory. What if our wishes go against God’s plan for our lives? Then we must be ready to give up what we want. Wise people can help us make good decisions too. God wants what is best for us. So, we must give our lives to Him. Then we can trust in the choices we make. 

`How do you make big choices in life? How do prayer and trust in God’s promises help you make good choices?`
