---
title:  "HOW DO I CHOOSE THE RIGHT FRIENDS?"
date:   09/04/2019
---

One of the most important choices we will make is choosing our friends. Most of the time, we do not plan to be someone’s friend. Friendships happen when we spend time with people who like the same things we do.

`Proverbs 12:26; Proverbs 17:17; Proverbs 18:24; Proverbs 22:24, 25 give us some important Bible rules. These rules teach us how we should choose our friends. What are these rules?`

Do you want to have friends? Then first you “must be a friend” (Proverbs 18:24, NLV). Sometimes people are sad because they are alone. But often their sadness pushes other people away. “Even the best people, are not always perfect. So, we must choose friends who will love us when they learn we are not perfect. And we must love them in the same way too. We should love and respect our friends even when we see their faults. This love shows Jesus. We cannot help seeing our friends’ faults. But we must not let pride fill our hearts. We should not think we are always good and everyone else is wrong. We should be patient with people when they make mistakes. This behavior will help our hearts not to be selfish. Then we will want to help people as much as we can.”—Ellen G. White, Pastoral [about pastors] Ministry [work for God], page 95, adapted. 

Almost everyone knows about David’s friendship with Jonathan. Jonathan’s dad was King Saul. King Saul did not obey God. So, God took the kingdom of Israel away from Saul and chose David as the new king. This story shows us a powerful example of how one person’s wrong choices (Saul’s) hurt another person (Jonathan).

But was Jonathan angry or jealous of David? No. Jonathan chose to help David. Jonathan protected David from Saul’s anger. “Jonathan felt very close to David. He loved David as much as he loved himself” (1 Samuel 18:1, ICB). Wow! That is a beautiful example of true friendship!

`“Do not be fooled: ‘Bad friends will ruin good habits’ ” (1 Corinthians 15:33, ICB). Why is this true?`