src/en/2019-02-er/02/05.md, before:

---
title: 'Marriage How Do I Make The Right Choice'
date: 10/04/2019
---

You must choose your friends carefully. But you must be even more careful when you choose your husband or wife. God made Adam’s wife with His own hands. God made Eve using part of Adam. Adam’s choice for a wife was easy: (1) Eve was the only woman on earth. (2) Eve also was a perfect woman. The rest of us have a harder time finding the right person for us. None of us is perfect. Also, we have many more people to choose from than Adam did!

Our decision to get married is very important. So, God gave us some important rules to help us make the right choice. We looked at some of these rules already in Monday’s study. But God gives us some more rules to help us make the best choice about marriage. (We will look at the topic of marriage more closely in lesson 6.) Why does God give us these rules? Because it is the second most important decision we will make. The first and most impor-tant decision, of course, is our choice to serve the Lord. 

`What advice does God give us about marriage in Psalm 37:27; Psalm 119:97; 1 Corinthians 15:33; and James 1:23–25?`

Here is a good rule to follow: before you look for the right person to marry, first be the right person yourself. “ ‘Do for other people the same things you want them to do for you’ ” (Matthew 7:12, ICB). Let us say you find a really wonderful person to marry. This person is everything you want: loving, gentle, and giving. You should be these things too. If you are not, then you will have problems in your marriage. 

This truth is not new. Both Jesus and Paul say it is wrong for us to blame other people for doing bad things when we do the same things too (Matthew 7:3; Romans 2).

`We want people to show more love. But is it fair to expect them to show us love when we do not show it to them?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/02/05.md, after:

---
title: 'Marriage How Do I Make The Right Choice'
date: 10/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

You must choose your friends carefully. But you must be even more careful when you choose your husband or wife. God made Adam’s wife with His own hands. God made Eve using part of Adam. Adam’s choice for a wife was easy: (1) Eve was the only woman on earth. (2) Eve also was a perfect woman. The rest of us have a harder time finding the right person for us. None of us is perfect. Also, we have many more people to choose from than Adam did!

Our decision to get married is very important. So, God gave us some important rules to help us make the right choice. We looked at some of these rules already in Monday’s study. But God gives us some more rules to help us make the best choice about marriage. (We will look at the topic of marriage more closely in lesson 6.) Why does God give us these rules? Because it is the second most important decision we will make. The first and most impor-tant decision, of course, is our choice to serve the Lord. 

`What advice does God give us about marriage in Psalm 37:27; Psalm 119:97; 1 Corinthians 15:33; and James 1:23–25?`

Here is a good rule to follow: before you look for the right person to marry, first be the right person yourself. “ ‘Do for other people the same things you want them to do for you’ ” (Matthew 7:12, ICB). Let us say you find a really wonderful person to marry. This person is everything you want: loving, gentle, and giving. You should be these things too. If you are not, then you will have problems in your marriage. 

This truth is not new. Both Jesus and Paul say it is wrong for us to blame other people for doing bad things when we do the same things too (Matthew 7:3; Romans 2).

`We want people to show more love. But is it fair to expect them to show us love when we do not show it to them?`
