src/en/2019-02-er/02/06.md, before:

---
title: 'How Do I Choose The Right Work To Do In Life'
date: 11/04/2019
---

We all need to make the choice about the work we want to do in life. Some people are born rich. They do not need to work. But most people are not that lucky. They must choose what they will do in life to earn money.

Yes, certain things can limit our choices about the work we will do in life. But even with few choices, we can make decisions that make us happy. The work we choose can give our lives meaning too. Whatever we do, we should do it to give God glory.

`In Ecclesiastes 2:1–11, we read about Solomon’s mistake. What mistake did he make? What does his mistake teach us? Why must we be careful not to do the same thing?`

Most of us are not as rich as Solomon. But we can fall into the same trap he did. Paul warns us: our love for “money is the root [cause] of all evil” (1 Timothy 6:10, KJV). Paul continues: “Some people have turned away from what we believe because they want to get more and more money” (1 Timothy 6:10, ERV). Then they felt “a lot of pain and sorrow” (1 Timothy 6:10, ERV). A poor person can love money in the same way as a rich person.

Yes, we need to earn money to support ourselves and our families. But we must not make money a false god. Many families have been hurt by fathers who cared more about getting rich than spending time with their kids. What do you think those children will choose? A father who makes a lot of money and is never home? Or a father who is not very rich but spends a lot of time with his kids? Most kids will choose a father who will spend time with them.

God gave us work as part of our lives (Genesis 2:15). But we must not make our work the only reason for our lives. Solomon made this sad mistake. 
 
`Someone said: “How many people at the end of their lives wish they spent more time in the office than with their families?” What does the answer to this question teach us?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/02/06.md, after:

---
title: 'How Do I Choose The Right Work To Do In Life'
date: 11/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We all need to make the choice about the work we want to do in life. Some people are born rich. They do not need to work. But most people are not that lucky. They must choose what they will do in life to earn money.

Yes, certain things can limit our choices about the work we will do in life. But even with few choices, we can make decisions that make us happy. The work we choose can give our lives meaning too. Whatever we do, we should do it to give God glory.

`In Ecclesiastes 2:1–11, we read about Solomon’s mistake. What mistake did he make? What does his mistake teach us? Why must we be careful not to do the same thing?`

Most of us are not as rich as Solomon. But we can fall into the same trap he did. Paul warns us: our love for “money is the root [cause] of all evil” (1 Timothy 6:10, KJV). Paul continues: “Some people have turned away from what we believe because they want to get more and more money” (1 Timothy 6:10, ERV). Then they felt “a lot of pain and sorrow” (1 Timothy 6:10, ERV). A poor person can love money in the same way as a rich person.

Yes, we need to earn money to support ourselves and our families. But we must not make money a false god. Many families have been hurt by fathers who cared more about getting rich than spending time with their kids. What do you think those children will choose? A father who makes a lot of money and is never home? Or a father who is not very rich but spends a lot of time with his kids? Most kids will choose a father who will spend time with them.

God gave us work as part of our lives (Genesis 2:15). But we must not make our work the only reason for our lives. Solomon made this sad mistake. 
 
`Someone said: “How many people at the end of their lives wish they spent more time in the office than with their families?” What does the answer to this question teach us?`
