src/en/2019-02-er/02/07.md, before:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 12/04/2019
---

Everywhere in the Bible, we see what it means to be free to make choices. Even Adam and Eve (Genesis 3) were free to choose. Sadly, they made the wrong choice. If perfect people can make wrong choices, what about us sinners?

God made us free to make our own choices, even the wrong ones. But we do not need to make wrong choices. We are free to make the right choices. With God’s power in us, we can choose to do what is good. So, it is very important for us to think carefully about our choices before we make any decisions. We must ask: What will our choices do to our families? Cain chose to kill his brother. This choice hurt his family very deeply. Joseph’s brothers chose to sell Joseph into slavery. Their choice almost destroyed their father’s life. “His [Joseph’s] father saw the coat and knew that it was Joseph’s. He said, ‘Yes, that is his! Maybe some wild animal has killed him. My son Joseph has been eaten by a wild animal!’ Jacob was so sorry [sad] about his son that he tore his clothes. Then Jacob put on special clothes to show that he was sad. He continued to be sad about his son for a long time. All of Jacob’s sons and daughters tried to comfort him, but Jacob was never comforted. He said, ‘I will be sad about my son until the day I die.’ So Jacob continued to mourn [cry for] his son Joseph” (Genesis 37:33–35, ERV).

Everywhere in the Bible, we find examples of the free choices people made. Some of these choices were good. But some were bad. (Read more about some of these choices in Numbers 16:1–32; Daniel 6:23, 24; Genesis 18:19.)

**Discussion questions**

`1. What are some of the choices you made today? What do these choices tell you about yourself? What do they tell you about how close you are to God and to other people? Do you wish that you had not made some of the choices you made today? If so, which ones?`

`2. Who are some of the people in the Bible who made wrong choices? What can we learn from their mistakes? How did their wrong choices hurt their families?`

`3. Yes, we will feel bad about wrong choices we make. Why then is the Good News so wonderful? What Bible promises can help you heal from the wrong choices you made in the past?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/02/07.md, after:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 12/04/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Everywhere in the Bible, we see what it means to be free to make choices. Even Adam and Eve (Genesis 3) were free to choose. Sadly, they made the wrong choice. If perfect people can make wrong choices, what about us sinners?

God made us free to make our own choices, even the wrong ones. But we do not need to make wrong choices. We are free to make the right choices. With God’s power in us, we can choose to do what is good. So, it is very important for us to think carefully about our choices before we make any decisions. We must ask: What will our choices do to our families? Cain chose to kill his brother. This choice hurt his family very deeply. Joseph’s brothers chose to sell Joseph into slavery. Their choice almost destroyed their father’s life. “His [Joseph’s] father saw the coat and knew that it was Joseph’s. He said, ‘Yes, that is his! Maybe some wild animal has killed him. My son Joseph has been eaten by a wild animal!’ Jacob was so sorry [sad] about his son that he tore his clothes. Then Jacob put on special clothes to show that he was sad. He continued to be sad about his son for a long time. All of Jacob’s sons and daughters tried to comfort him, but Jacob was never comforted. He said, ‘I will be sad about my son until the day I die.’ So Jacob continued to mourn [cry for] his son Joseph” (Genesis 37:33–35, ERV).

Everywhere in the Bible, we find examples of the free choices people made. Some of these choices were good. But some were bad. (Read more about some of these choices in Numbers 16:1–32; Daniel 6:23, 24; Genesis 18:19.)

**Discussion questions**

`1. What are some of the choices you made today? What do these choices tell you about yourself? What do they tell you about how close you are to God and to other people? Do you wish that you had not made some of the choices you made today? If so, which ones?`

`2. Who are some of the people in the Bible who made wrong choices? What can we learn from their mistakes? How did their wrong choices hurt their families?`

`3. Yes, we will feel bad about wrong choices we make. Why then is the Good News so wonderful? What Bible promises can help you heal from the wrong choices you made in the past?`
