---
title:  Following the Clues
date:  01/03/2020
---

#### inGest

Daniel 7 is a repeat and enlargement of the timeline in the metal image of Daniel 2. This time, though, instead of metals there are beasts.

This is a review of the information presented in Daniel 2 but with new insight given. A little horn power arrives on the scene. Here are ten characteristics and clues that we can gather about the little horn power from Daniel 7:8, 25:

`This power comes from “among them,” meaning somewhere in divided Europe (v. 8).`

`If the power came up among the ten horns, then it would have to come up sometime after the fall of Rome ­­­­in 476 AD.`

`This power would be a little kingdom (v. 8).`

`This power would pluck out or uproot three kingdoms: Heruli, Vandals, Ostrogoths (v. 8).`

`There is a “man at its head,” and this man “speaks for it” (v. 8).`

`It would be different from the others (v. 8).`

`It would speak “pompous words against the Most High” (v. 25).`

`It would “persecute the saints of the Most High” (v. 25).`

`It would “intend to change times and law” (v. 25).`

`It would rule for a “time, times, and half a time” (v. 25).`

Daniel 7 adds an additional player to the lineup of world kingdoms, a world player that is a Christianized version of paganism. Through this power, God’s law would be changed. Through this power, millions would be persecuted and killed. Only one power meets all ten of the characteristics: the Roman Catholic papacy. Every Protestant reformer from Luther to Calvin to Wesley came to the same conclusion. God is giving a prophetic message that the papacy will play a critical role in history and in end-time events.

In the successive kingdoms from Babylon to Rome, Satan has sought to develop pagan practices such as sun worship and idolatry. With the inception of Christianity during the time of Rome, Satan sought to stamp out Christianity by persecution. However, the more Satan persecuted, the more Christianity grew. Satan changed his plans; as the saying goes, if you can’t beat them, join them. Christianity became the popular religion of Rome, and with it, the pagan practices such as sun worship and idolatry were rebranded into Christianity. Papal Rome became the vehicle through which Satan would move his agenda.

``