---
title:  A Deeper Look at Daniel 7
date:  02/12/2019
---

#### inTerpret

Does this mean that Catholics will not be saved?

The little horn power being identified as the Catholic Church does not have any bearing on the salvation of the members of the organization. God is identifying the papacy as a key player in world events. He is not making a statement about the eternal salvation of its members. However, this fact does not minimize the gravity of the fact that Satan will use the mode of paganism under the garb of Christianity as a means to an end.

What is “a time, times, and half a time”?

This time period comes up other places in Scripture, namely Revelation 12:14: “The woman was given the two wings of a great eagle, so that she might fly to the place prepared for her in the wilderness, where she would be taken care of for a time, times and half a time, out of the serpent’s reach.”

Notice that this is exactly the same time period as in Daniel 7:25 describing the little horn power that persecutes God’s people. In other words, while the little horn is persecuting for a time, times, and half a time, the women is on the run and hides in the wilderness for a time, times, and half a time.

Revelation 12:6 unlocks the meaning of “a time, times, and half a time.” In this verse, the woman fled into the wilderness to a place prepared for her by God, where she might be taken care of for 1,260 days. This verse says the same thing that verse 14 says, except it replaces “a time, times, and half a time” with 1,260 days.

Using the day-for-year principle (Ezek. 4:6; Num. 14:34), this comes to 1,260 years. This is the exact time period that the papacy dominated Europe during the Dark Ages from 538 AD (when Justinian eradicated the last of the remaining three kingdoms that stood in opposition to the papacy) to 1798, when Berthier, Napoleon’s general, took the pope captive, where he died in exile.

Similarities between the little horn of Daniel 7 and the sea beast of Revelation 13

Notice that the exact same beasts of Daniel 7 are mentioned in Revelation 13:1–3, except in reverse order. This sea beast is an amalgamation of the beasts of Daniel 7. This power is a synthesis of all the pagan kingdoms that have gone before it.

`Revelation 13:5 – Both speak great words and blasphemies.`

`Revelation 13:5 – Both rule for a prophetic 42 months, or 1,260 literal years.`

`Revelation 13:7 – Both make war with the saints.`

The little horn of Daniel 7 is the beast of Revelation 13. The two chapters are referring to the same power. However, Daniel 7 is, from our vantage point in the twenty-first century, a reference to the workings of the papacy in the past, while Revelation 13 is an indication of the workings of the papacy from now until the end of time.

``