---
title:  Wanting Much More
date:  04/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Corinthians 10:1–11; Leviticus 4:32–35; Hebrews 4:1–11; Psalm 95:8–11.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ And these things that happened are examples for us. These examples should stop us from wanting evil things like [the same as] those people did” (1 Corinthians 10:6, ERV).

IN NEW YORK CITY, in the United States of America, you can visit the Queens Museum of Art. This museum is the home of a model of New York city. This model is the biggest model of a city on earth. The model shows all the buildings in New York city. The model is almost 9,335 square feet (870 square meters). 100 skilled workers worked on the model for three years. They finished the model in 1964. The model has been changed over the years to show changes to the city up to 1990. The model is a wonderful copy of New York city.

In the end, the model is only a copy. The copy is an example of something bigger than itself.

All copies are made this way. They are not the real thing. They are only symbols or word pictures of something else. A model helps us understand better the thing that it shows us. But the model cannot replace the thing it copies. 	The Bible itself is full of models and examples. These examples show us bigger Bible truths. Hebrews 4 helps us see one of those Bible truths: the Bible truth about rest.