---
title:  Baptized Into Moses 
date:  05/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`What message does Paul want to communicate to his readers in Corinth when he talks to them about “examples”? For the answer, read 1 Corinthians 10:1–11.`

In 1 Corinthians 10:6, the word written as “examples” in most English Bibles comes from the Greek word “typos.” The word “type” in the English language comes from this Greek word. A type or example is not the same as the real thing. A type is always a copy, symbol, or word picture for the thing that it shows. So, a type is a model that shows us something else.

Hebrews 8:5 gives us a good example of a model or type. This model shows us a bigger Bible truth: “The work that these priests [holy leaders] do is really only a copy and a shadow of what is in heaven. That is why God warned Moses when he was ready to build the Holy Tent: ‘Be sure to make everything exactly like [the same as] the pattern I showed you on the mountain’ ” (Hebrews 8:5, ERV).

Hebrews 8:5 shows us that God uses things on earth to show us Bible truth about the things in heaven. In Hebrews 8:5, we read a quote from Exodus 25:9: “exactly like [the same as] the pattern.” This quote shows us that the Holy Tent on earth is an “example” or model for the temple in heaven. Jesus works in this temple right now to save us.

This example helps us better understand what Paul talks about in 1 Corinthians 10. In this chapter, Paul talks about some of the experiences of Israel in the desert on their way to the Promised Land. The words “our early fathers” (1 Corinthians 10:1, NLV) show us the Israelites who left Egypt. God led them by His cloud. God opened the Red Sea, and His people walked on dry land. That is why Paul says the Israelites were baptized into a new life.

Paul says that these important experiences in the desert are examples or types. These types show us baptism in Jesus. In the same way, the manna, or food from heaven, in Exodus 16:31–35 is a word picture for the “spiritual food” that Paul talks about in 1 Corinthians 10:3 (ERV). Israel drank water from the rock. Paul tells us this rock is Jesus (1 Corinthians 10:4). For sure, Jesus is the “bread that gives life” (John 6:48, ERV) and the “living water” (John 4:10, ERV). Paul uses examples from Old Testament history to show us Bible truth. This Bible truth has meaning for our lives as Christians today.