---
title:  More Old Testament Examples 
date:  06/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

When we read about worship in the Old Testament, we see many word pictures or symbols. These Old Testament examples show us New Testament truths. The book of Leviticus is filled with these examples. Today, modern readers of the Bible often feel these examples are boring. So, they do not read them. But that is a shame. These Old Testament examples can teach us important spiritual truths.

`Read the rules for the sin offering for a regular Israelite in Leviticus 4:32–35. What Bible truth does this sin offering teach us? What is the connection between this  sin offering and John 1:29 and 1 Peter 1:18–21?`

Offerings and other acts of worship show us important Bible truths. But we also need to know why people worshiped and gave these offerings. Then we will understand the offerings and acts of worship much better. Most offerings and acts of worship happened at a special time and place in the Old Testament. Other things also needed to happen, too. All these things helped make the religious act or offering pleasing to God. God gave the Israelites many rules about the gifts they offered Him. God told His people when and where they should offer their gifts to Him.

Blood was an important part of offerings. This part is not pretty and is not meant to be pretty. That is because the blood shows us the ugliest thing on earth: sin.

Why is blood important in Old Testament worship? Why must the holy leader put blood on the horns of the altar? Most of the rules about offerings in the Old Testament show how to offer an animal to God. But these rules often do not explain why the offering is made. Maybe that is because the Israelites already understood these things. We know that they understood that blood was important (Leviticus 17:11).

But we do find an important explanation in Leviticus 4:32–35 about blood. In these verses, the holy leader puts some blood on the altar and pours the rest at the bottom of the altar: “The priest [holy leader] will do this to make you pure [clean], and God will forgive you” (Leviticus 4:35, ERV). This verse shows that blood is an important part of our forgiveness. Blood is the way that God makes us right with Himself. So, the Old Testament offerings show us the death of Jesus for us. These offerings also show us His work in heaven right now to save us.