---
title:  The “example” Of Rest 
date:  07/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

What are some of the word pictures and symbols in the Bible that show us rest? Let us take a look at one example in the book of Hebrews.

`Read Hebrews 4:1–11. In these verses, what does it mean to enter into the rest of God? How does the experience of Israel when they left Egypt and lived in the desert for 40 years help us understand better the idea of entering the rest of God?`

Hebrews 4:1–11 talks about two important ideas: not giving up and staying loyal to God. Hebrews 4:1–11 is an invitation to the people of God to stay strong in faith. God invites us to stay loyal to the Good News about Jesus.

Hebrews 4:1–11 helps us see that we should learn lessons from the way God led us in the past. Then “none of us will be lost by following the example of those [people] who refused to obey God” (Hebrews 4:11, ERV). So, when God leads you, pay attention! God taught Israel the Good News during Old Testament times. But the Good News did not do these Israelites any good in the end. They turned against God (compare with Hebrews 3:7–15). So, the Israelites never had the rest God wanted them to have.

Hebrews 4:3 shows us the close connection between faith and rest. We can enter into the rest of God only when we believe and trust Him. Jesus promises us rest. We must believe and trust that He can keep His promise to us.

`Read Hebrews 4:3 again. As this verse shows, what problem do the Israelites in the desert have? The Good News has been preached to them and to us (Hebrews 4:2). So, what lesson can we learn from their mistake?`

The early Christians in New Testament times accepted the Old Testament. They believed that Jesus was the Lamb of God and the offering for their sins. The people also believed that their faith in this offering saved them. Their faith in Jesus also gave them rest. God offers us this same rest today.

`We are saved by the blood of Jesus. How does understanding this Bible truth help us enter into His promise of rest?`