---
title:  Do Not Let Your Hearts Become Stubborn 
date:  08/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Hebrews 4:4–7 and Psalm 95:8–11. What warning do you see in these verses from Hebrews and Psalms? What does this warning mean for us today?`

Hebrews 4:4–7 talks about how the Israelites did not show faith in God. That is why they did not enter into the rest God wanted for them. In Hebrews 4:4–7, we also see quotes from Psalm 95. Psalm 95:8–11 shows us a connection between the experience of Israel in the desert and the rest that God gives us from sin. Psalm 95 tells us that God makes a promise that Israel will not enter into His rest. At that time, people believed that this rest meant the Promised Land. But rest in Old Testament times included more than just the land the people lived on.

Of course, the people of Israel entered the Promised Land 40 years later. That happened after the old Israelites died in the desert because they did not trust God to give them rest. Then a new group of Israelites was born in the desert. This new group replaced the disobedient Israelites who died. The younger Israelites entered the Promised Land and lived there.

But as time passed, the future children of this new group of Israelites did not have an experience with Jesus as their Savior. They had no faith in His saving love. So, they did not really have rest. These Israelites broke the law of God. Their disobedience showed that they did not trust God.

`In Hebrews 4:6, we see that the people of God knew about His promise of rest. But they did not enter into His rest because they did not obey God. What is the connection between not obeying God and not entering into His rest?`

The Greek word for “today” in Hebrews 4:6 (ERV) is “semeron.” “Semeron” helps us see that we have no time to waste. “Semeron” or “today” shows us that God asks us to make a decision right now. He wants us to accept His rest.

Paul, the writer of Hebrews, shows us that if we really want rest, we must answer God “today.” Psalm 95:7, 8 warns us not to make the mistakes that the Israelites made. If we do, we will fail to enter into the rest that we can find only in God and His mercy.