---
title:  Another Rest For The People Of God 
date:  09/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In Hebrews 4:8–11, we read that Joshua did not give Israel rest. But God promised His people rest, and God does not lie. So, there must be another “rest” that the people of God will enjoy. This group of people are not only Jewish Christians. The people of God include everyone who accepts Jesus as his or her personal Savior.

`Galatians 3:26–29 shows us a picture of the people who accept Jesus. What does it mean that God “does not see you as a servant or as a person free to work. He does not see you as a man or as woman” (Galatians 3:28, NLV)?`

Some people say that Hebrews 4 shows that we should keep the seventh-day Sabbath holy. Other people disagree. They believe Hebrews 4 shows that we no longer need to keep the Sabbath holy at all because God promises us another end-time rest. Both of these views fail to show what Hebrews 4 really teaches. Hebrews 4 shows us that our Sabbath rest gives us a small taste of the end-time rest we will have in the future. The Jews saw the Sabbath as the ‘olam haba.’ The ‘olam haba’ in the Hebrew language means “the new earth.”

The promise of future rest for the people of God shows us that we do not need to work for everlasting life. We can trust God to save us. We can rest in His promise of mercy and forgiveness.

So, people are wrong who say Hebrews 4 shows that we no longer need to keep the fourth commandment. Yes, Jesus promises us rest from our sins. But this promise does not replace our need to rest on the seventh-day Sabbath. Of course not! Hebrews 4 really shows us the need to keep the Sabbath holy because of everything Jesus has done for us and is doing for us now.

We live in a time when people respect hard work and the success that comes from working hard. So, we must rest in Jesus more than ever in this time. We must trust that His mercy is enough to save us and change us. This belief goes against what most people on earth believe. But we must be brave enough to trust in the promise of Jesus at a time when other people trust in their own hard work and success.

`Some people feel that their sins are too awful to forgive. How can you help these people find rest in Jesus?`