---
title:  Further Thought
date:  10/09/2021
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“We are not always willing to come to Jesus with our troubles and difficult problems. Sometimes we pour out the troubles in our hearts to other people. We tell our problems to people who cannot help us. We fail to tell everything to Jesus. Jesus can change our sorrow into joy and peace. We must stop being selfish and say no to self. When we do this, we will give glory to the cross. The promises of God are very precious. We must study the Bible so that we may learn the plan of God for our lives. When we study the Bible carefully and obey its teachings, God will lead us. I wish that pastors and people will take their heavy loads and troubles to Jesus. Jesus is willing to accept them. He is waiting to give them peace and rest! He will not leave the ones who put their trust in him.”—Ellen G. White, The Signs of the Times, March 17, 1887, page 161, adapted.

“Dear young people, do you look with joy and hope to the time when the Lord shall confess your name before the Father and the holy angels? The Lord is your holy Judge. The best thing you can do to get ready for the Second Coming is to rest in the promise that Jesus brought to us at His first coming. You must believe in Jesus as your personal Savior.”—Ellen G. White, Our High Calling, page 368, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How does the Sabbath rest give us a “taste” of everlasting life?`

`Jesus brings us back to God and makes us one with Him again. (Read Romans 5:11.) If someone asks you, “What does it mean to be one with God? How has this made your life better?” What answer will you give?`

`How can we avoid making our problems bigger than they really are? What keeps our attention on the big picture that we see in the Bible?`

`Think again about all the mistakes that the children of Israel made in the desert. In what ways, do we face the same problems they did? How can we learn from their mistakes?`