---
title:  Giving and Receiving
date:   16/03/2025
---

### inGest

God longs to satisfy every thirsty soul (Isa. 55:1; 58:11). He’s waiting to come into our hearts and turn a lifeless desert into a lush paradise, but He cannot water our hearts without our cooperation. A happy heart is like a fresh lake where water is constantly flowing in one end and out the other. When a lake has no outlet, its water becomes stagnant and foul. So it is with the Christian, who must constantly give and receive to stay fresh. Notice the balance of giving and receiving. An inward-focused soul (i.e., an imbalance of receiving) can never be a satisfied soul. God has to broaden our focus and balance us to heal us. Caring about other people’s pain and responding to their needs gives us a new sense of meaning and purpose. As we encourage and uplift others around us, we discover joy and satisfaction. When we help others find healing, God helps us find healing. When we bring in the outcasts, God brings us in.

A hurting person does not need to wait until all their issues are resolved before helping others. The best thing to do is to find people who are suffering whom you can help and who can help you on your path of healing. Notice the sequence of ministry and healing in Isaiah 58. Once you begin “to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free,” to “break every yoke,” “to share your bread with the hungry,” and “bring to your house the poor who are cast out,” “then your light shall break forth like the morning, your healing shall spring forth speedily” (vv. 6–8). “If you extend your soul to the hungry and satisfy the afflicted soul, then your light shall dawn in the darkness, and your darkness shall be as the noonday” (v. 10). Though God looks to help us all, He wants especially to help people who seek to help others. God could accomplish His work entirely through angels, but He wants to share the work with us so that we can share in the joy of it.

Of course, experiencing healing also means you’re open to accepting and seeking help from others when you need it. This is just as much about receiving as it is about giving (again, it’s a balance). Seeking healing from God while isolating yourself from the fellowship of God’s people is foolish. “A man who isolates himself seeks his own desire; he rages against all wise judgment” (Prov. 18:1). Sometimes we can isolate by being around people or even serving them without truly being connected and without any reciprocity. There’s always some risk in letting friends into our safe spaces. Especially if we’ve been hurt before, it can be difficult to be vulnerable and lower our defenses. It can be even more challenging to ignore our personal pride. If we could be humble, we might admit that we need the encouragement of others. Sometimes we need a friend who will speak encouraging words that “are like a honeycomb, sweetness to the soul and health to the bones” (16:24). Kind words spoken at the right time save marriages, jobs, churches, and lives. “Death and life are in the power of the tongue” (18:21). Whether words or actions, we need to receive from others as much as we need to give. As Paul says in Galatians, “share each other’s burdens” (6:2). Each of us has a measure of influence. We can all lift each other up.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Isaiah 58. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What might help you better discover your purpose in life?`

`What makes it hard for you to accept and seek help when you need it? What can you do to overcome these obstacles?`