---
title:  Saving the Worst Sinner
date:   19/03/2025
---

### inVite

The book of Proverbs lists seven things the Lord hates. We have no reason to believe that Mary’s seven demons were any better or worse in God’s eyes than these seven sins. However, the sins from Proverbs are much more relatable than we would like to admit: “a proud look, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that are swift in running to evil, a false witness who speaks lies, and one who sows discord among brethren” (Prov. 6:17–19). Let that sink in! How many of us have a negative attitude that shows in our facial expressions? How many of us have cheated on a test at school? How many of us have indulged the imagination with evil things, especially with the aid of video games, movies, and books? How many of us have lied? How many of us have stirred up bad feelings about certain people?

The more we reflect on the seven sins from Proverbs, the more relatable Mary’s story becomes. Mary’s story can be hard to identify with when we’re blind to how much God has forgiven us. Multitudes have convinced themselves that they need only a tiny bit of forgiveness because they think their sins are so few and so minor. However, Jesus said, “No one is good but One, that is, God” (Matt. 19:17), Solomon said, “There is no one who does not sin” (1 Kings 8:46),and Paul said, “For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God” (Rom. 3:23). All of us are completely dependent on God’s grace and love. We all have issues, pain, and brokenness, but Jesus came to heal the brokenhearted. He gives new life to the unlikeliest people. With Jesus, no case is hopeless. No matter what’s behind our tears, Jesus has come to connect us to heaven. That’s a reason to rejoice!

Regardless of our past, with God, we have a bright and promising future. In God’s “presence is fullness of joy” and “pleasures forevermore” (Ps. 16:11). When we reach heaven, God will say to us, “Enter into the joy of your lord” (Matt. 25:21). Yet this promise of joy is not just for the future. Even now, God wants to fill us with a deep and satisfying joy that will bubble up and flow out to refresh those around us (John 4:14; 7:38). Mary found this joy; the last time we see her in the Bible, she’s proclaiming the message of a risen Savior (John 20:18). Jesus renewed her mind and turned her tears of sorrow into tears of joy—the same thing He wants to do for each of us.

Meditate on John 20 again and look for what it reveals about Jesus, His character, His priorities, and His work.

`How do you personally relate to Mary?`