---
title:  The Problem With The Non-Jews
date:   19/08/2018
---

From the beginning, the church at Antioch in Syria has both Jewish members and non-Jewish members who are not circumcised (Acts 11:19–21; Galatians 2:11–13). Remember, circumcised means the extra skin on the end of the male sex organ is cut off. The two different groups of people live in peace with each other. But then that peace is broken when some believers arrive in Antioch from Jerusalem.

`Read Acts 15:1–5. From what these verses show us, what is the problem in the Antioch church?`

The believers from Jerusalem are known as Judaizers. Judaizers believe that non-Jews needed to be circumcised first. Then the non-Jews must obey all the laws of Moses before they can join the church. The Judaizers may have been the same group of people Luke talks about in verse 5, who are Pharisees. Pharisees were a group of Jews who were very strict about obeying the law. No one from the church in Jerusalem sends the Judaizers to Antioch (Acts 15:24). But later on, something happens in the church that shows many Jews and church leaders are not very happy. They do not want non-Jews to join the church (Galatians 2:11–13).

In his letter to the Galatians, Paul does not say nice things about the Judaizers. Paul says the Judaizers are troublemakers (Galatians 1:7; Galatians 5:10) and people who “pretended [behaved as] to be believers” (Galatians 2:4, NIrV). Paul says these false Christians wanted to take away the Galatians’ freedom that they found in Jesus and make the Galatians slaves to obeying the Jewish laws.

The Judaizers say that non-Jews need to be circumcised first and keep all the Jewish laws before they can be saved. The Judaizers believe being circumcised is the only way to become a member of God’s people (Genesis 17:9–14; Exodus 12:48). The Judaizers say non-Jews can be saved only if they become Jews first. 

Paul and Barnabas do not agree with the Judaizers’ teaching because it does not match the Good News. But the Judaizers’ visit leads to a very angry discussion in the church about the problem. The problem is too important to be solved only by the church in Antioch. The peace of the whole Christian church is in danger of becoming broken. So, the leaders in Antioch send Paul and Barnabas, along with other believers, to Jerusalem to solve the problem.