---
title:  The Reason For The Fight
date:   20/08/2018
---

One of the reasons for the fight between the believers in Antioch and the Jews from Jerusalem was circumcision. Circumcision means that the extra skin on the end of the male sex organ is cut off. Jewish males had the extra skin cut off eight days after they were born to show they belonged to God. Circumcision was not something the Jews added to their plan of worship. God Himself commanded circumcision. Circumcision was a word picture for God’s special agreement with Abraham’s future children. Circumcision showed that the Jews were God’s people. 

`Read about circumcision in Exodus 12:43–49. Who else must be circumcised? To be circumcised means having the extra skin on the end of the male sex organ cut off.`

The promises in God’s special agreement with His people are not only for the Israelites. God’s promises also include any slave or stranger who wishes to experience God’s promises. But the slave and the stranger need to be circumcised first. After circumcision, God will then accept the stranger in the same way He accepts someone who is born a Jew. “He [the non-Jew] will be like [the same as] one who is born in the land” (Exodus 12:48, NLV).

So, in Bible times, a man needs to be circumcised so that he can be a part of God’s special agreement with His people. That is why the Jewish teachers from Jerusalem say that no non-Jews can be saved until they become Jews first.

`Read what Paul says about circumcision in Romans 3:30; 1 Corinthians 7:18; Galatians 3:28; and Galatians 5:6. What does Paul believe about circumcision?`

The false teachers say that non-Jews can be saved only if they became Jews first. But just because someone is a member of God’s people does not mean that person is saved. God saves Abraham by faith before he is circumcised, not after. The problem is that the Jewish teachers believe that being circumcised makes them right with God. So, to force non-Jews to be circumcised is to twist the Good News. Paul can never agree with this idea.

`What is the danger of thinking that being saved comes from just joining the right church?`