---
title:  The Long Talk
date:   21/08/2018
---

`In Acts 15:7–11, Luke tells us about the long group discussion that church leaders in Jerusalem have about the non-Jews. What does Peter say about the problem?`

Luke does not tell us everything that people said in the meeting. It would be interesting to know what else the false teachers said (Acts 15:5) and how Paul and Barnabas answered them (Acts 15:1). Luke gives us only Peter’s and James’s sermons. But that fact shows us that both men were very important among the apostles. The apostles were the men Jesus chose to lead His church after He went to heaven. 

Peter talks to the apostles and other church leaders. He reminds them about his experience with Cornelius, a non-Jew, many years before. God Himself showed Peter that He approved of Cornelius’s becoming a Christian. Cornelius was not circumcised. Circumcised means the extra skin on the end of the male sex organ is cut off. Jewish males were circumcised eight days after they were born to show they were part of God’s chosen people. God showed the Jewish Christians that He accepted Cornelius by giving him the same gift of the Holy Spirit that He gave the apostles at Pentecost. Remember, Pentecost was the time when God poured His Spirit on the church after Jesus went to heaven. 

God uses Peter to show the believers from Judea that He saves both Jews and non-Jews. No one can say anymore that the non-Jews are not clean. Why? Because God Himself makes their hearts clean. Peter’s final words sound almost the same as what Paul might say: “ ‘We believe it is by the loving-favor of the Lord Jesus that we are saved. They [the non-Jews] are saved from the punishment of sin the same way’ ” (Acts 15:11, NLV). 

`In Acts 15:13–21, James suggests a way to solve the problem with the non-Jews. What does James think will help solve the problem?`

James’s talk shows us that he was a leader with lots of power (read also Acts 12:17; Acts 21:18; Galatians 2:9, 12). James wanted to show everyone that God already allowed non-Jews to join the people of God and to become a part of Israel. So, James decided that the church should not force non-Jews to follow Jewish rules.