---
title:  The Four Rules For Believers
date:   22/08/2018
---

`Read Acts 15:28, 29. The Jerusalem Group was a group of leaders who made big decisions for the church. What four things does the Jerusalem Group say that believers must not do?`

The Jerusalem Group said that humans are saved by God’s loving favor, not by their own works. So, believers did not need to be circumcised. To be circumcised means that the extra skin on the end of the male sex organ is cut off. But the Jerusalem Group said that believers must not do four things: (1) They must not eat meat offered to statues and then sold in the markets. (2) They must not eat blood. (3) They must not eat the meat of animals that had been strangled. That means the meat from animals whose blood had not been drained from their bodies. (4) They should not have any sex that breaks God’s law. 

The first three rules about food were things that the Jews really hated. So, these laws were meant to help the Jews and the non-Jews to get along better. Most Christians today feel that the first three laws about food no longer need to be followed. Also, some Christians today say that the Sabbath commandment (Exodus 20:8–11) no longer needs to be followed because it is not on this “new” list of rules. They say the food laws in Leviticus 11 do not need to be followed either, because they are not on this “new” list.  

These four laws were not a new set of rules for Christians that threw out all other rules in the Old Testament. Clearly, the Holy Spirit led the church leaders to write these four laws (Acts 15:28). The four laws came from the rules found in Leviticus 17–18 that talk only about foreigners living in the land of Israel. 

When we read these chapters in Leviticus, we see that the rules are about foreigners giving up their worship of nature and false gods. Any foreigner from another country who wanted to live in Israel had to give up his or her beliefs in false gods (Leviticus 18:30). In the same way, any believing non-Jews who wanted to join the church had to give up their worship of false gods. They needed to keep God’s law holy. They also needed to follow the rules about clean and unclean foods. In the same way, we must follow these rules always.  

`How can we solve church problems in a spirit of love?`