---
title:  The Letter From Jerusalem
date:   23/08/2018
---

`Read Acts 15:22–29. As these verses show us, how does the Jerusalem church follow the decision made by the Jerusalem Group? The Jerusalem Group was a group of leaders who made big decisions for the church.`  

First, the leaders of the Jerusalem church wrote a letter to the non-Jewish believers about their decision. This letter was written in A.D. 49. It is one of the oldest church papers today. The Jerusalem church also chose Judas Barsabas and Silas to go with Paul and Barnabas to Antioch. Their job was to carry the letter from the leaders to Antioch and to tell the church that the letter was true.

`Read Acts 15:30–33. How does the church in Antioch answer the letter?`

The church in Antioch was filled with joy because the message in the letter gave them hope. The letter said none of the non-Jewish believers needed to be circumcised. To be circumcised means that the extra skin on the end of the male sex organ is cut off. The church in Antioch agreed with the four rules in the letter that the Jerusalem church sent them. 

Then the meeting in Jerusalem ended. The church leaders in Jerusalem accepted Paul’s teaching about Jesus. The leaders now accepted and trusted Paul and Barnabas fully (Galatians 2:9). But there were some Jewish Christians who continued to try to earn God’s gift of being saved. These Jewish Christians would have a hard time eating at the same table with non-Jewish believers. Why? Because under the new rules, the non-Jewish leaders did not need to be “clean” to be saved. Ellen G. White says, “Not all of Jesus’ followers were ready to accept the decision of the Jerusalem Group.”—The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 197, adapted. 

`Be honest: Is it hard for you to eat with believers who are different from you? These believers may be from different countries, race groups, or they may follow different ways of life. How can you let go of your wrong feelings and learn to get along with these believers?`