---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   24/08/2018
---

“God opens up the way for the Jewish Christians to do His work. But they do not do the work as fast as God wants them to. The work that the church leaders do among the non-Jews clearly shows that the number of non-Jewish believers will be a lot bigger than the number of Jewish believers. The Jews worry about what will happen if the non-Jews do not keep Jewish laws. Then the special laws, beliefs, and behaviors that make the Jews different will be gone. And those special things will not be seen in the lives of the non-Jewish believers who accept the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [leaders and teachers], page 189, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1.	In class, go back to Monday’s last question. We know that belonging to the “right” church does not mean we are saved, right? Think about Israel’s example in the Old Testament. Clearly, Israel was the “right church.” But that does not mean that every person in Israel was saved. Our being members of the true church does not mean we will be saved either. So then, what is the real reason why we should belong to the true church?`  

`2.	One of the most important decisions the church in New Testament times made was about how to accept non-Jewish believers in the church. Should these non-Jewish believers be circumcised? To be circumcised means the extra skin on the end of the male sex organ is cut off. What problems do we see in the church today? What do the church leaders in Acts 15 teach us about how to solve these problems?`

`3.	In class, ask some people to be the Jews in the book of Acts who say that non-Jews must become Jews first before they can join the church. Now ask these “Jews” to give reasons to support their beliefs. Why do they say that non-Jews must become Jews first before they can join the church? How do you answer them? How does this experience show us that the problems in the early church were harder to solve than we think?`