---
title: Receiving to Give
date: 17/08/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Luke 13:6–9**

**Receiving to Give**

As we look around us in nature, we find a recurring pattern: living organisms receive so they can give. The cycle of life is all about receiving and giving; one typically does not exist without the other. There are, however, some examples of what happens when something only receives without having an outlet to give.

In Israel, you can visit the Salt Sea, commonly known as the Dead Sea. The Jordan River is the only major water source that flows into the Dead Sea, though small recurrent springs under and around the Dead Sea form pools and quicksand pits along the edges. However, there are no outlet streams. With the exception of bacteria, the Dead Sea’s extreme saltiness cannot support any form of life. Fish die quickly when carried in by the Jordan or by smaller streams during floods. No wonder it’s called the Dead Sea.

Unfortunately, too many church members today are just like the Dead Sea. They receive, but they do not give. Our world is consumer-driven and we expect to receive, often without thinking of how we can contribute. Jesus desired His hearers to receive in order to bear fruit. Bearing fruit is an expression that’s closely connected to being a disciple and follower of Jesus. Fruit bearing is a responsibility, but it’s also a tremendous joy. Jesus described the gospel as living water that springs up within us (John 4:14), like a fountain that refreshes those we encounter. The parable of the barren fig tree reminds us of the call to bear fruit, reveal God’s goodness, and display His character. In doing so, we fulfill the purpose of our creation.

#### inScribe

Write out Luke 13:6–9 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `