---
title: A Tree Without Fruit
date: 18/08/2024
---

#### inGest

Jesus’ parable of the barren fig tree was given in the context of a wider discussion. A group of Jews had approached Jesus and told Him about the death of some Galileans who were in the wrong place at the wrong time. An insurrection had arisen in Jerusalem, and the Roman governor Pilate had quelled the uprising with violence. On one occasion, his soldiers had invaded the precincts of the temple and cut down some Galilean pilgrims who were in the very act of bringing their sacrifices. The Jews regarded all calamity as the judgment of God incurred because of the sufferer’s sin. The group of Jews who believed they were the most favored by God described this event with secret satisfaction. They presumed that these Galileans had deserved this calamity. Jesus discerned their elitist mindset and explained that the poor Galileans were no greater sinners than any others. He appealed to all those listening to repent. Through this parable, Jesus sought to make the Jews aware of the privileges and responsibilities they had as a nation.

The fig tree represented the generation to whom Jesus was speaking. Isaiah had written, “The vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, And the men of Judah are His pleasant plant” (Isa. 5:7). Because of their hard hearts, the Jews had failed to bear fruit by not revealing God’s character to the surrounding nations. Instead, they had misrepresented God, and in doing so, the nation became a hindrance to God’s purpose. A prophetic message of judgment hung in the air. Not many years after Jesus spoke this message, the Roman armies destroyed the city of Jerusalem and the gospel message went to the Gentile world. Before this took place, however, the Jewish nation would receive yet another opportunity to repent. As the owner and keeper of the vineyard gave the barren fig tree another chance by nourishing it once again, so Israel was once again the place where God revealed Himself. Even after Jesus was crucified, the disciples were told to wait in Jerusalem. The Holy Spirit was first poured out and manifested in Jerusalem. The disciples were clearly told by Jesus Himself to first proclaim His resurrection in the very place He had been put to death. God’s love and patience are on display in the parable and in Israel’s history.

In a broader interpretation, the fig tree represents God’s people throughout the world. God is looking for fruit, but sadly, He doesn’t always find it in His church. Too often, we have become consumers instead of producers. We cannot produce the fruit of the Spirit in our own strength, but as we abide in Christ, His life will flow through ours. God has chosen people like you and me to reflect His character of love to the world.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`What are some similarities between Israel in Jesus’ day and the church today?`

`How can we avoid repeating the same mistakes as ancient Israel?`