---
title: A Prosperous Life
date: 19/08/2024
---

#### inTerpret

Psalm 1 compares the righteous person to a fruit-bearing tree planted by a river: “But his delight is in the law of the Lord, And in His law he meditates day and night. He shall be like a tree Planted by the rivers of water, That brings forth its fruit in its season, Whose leaf also shall not wither; And whatever he does shall prosper” (Ps. 1:2, 3). Bearing fruit is linked with prospering in life, and this is connected to delighting in God’s commandments. When we view the Ten Commandments as ten promises of what God wants to do in our lives, we will experience an abundant life full of purpose and true happiness. Jesus summed up the Ten Commandments in two commandments: love God and love your neighbor (Matt. 22:37–40). Our interactions with others will reveal a true love for God. We receive love from Him and share this love with those we meet. A fruitful life requires both receiving and giving.

On another occasion, Jesus approached a fig tree looking for figs. Fig trees naturally grow fruit before the leaves open, so this tree in full leaf gave promise of well-developed fruit within it. However, its appearance was deceptive. Upon searching its branches, Jesus found “nothing but leaves” (Mark 11:13). It was a mass of pretentious foliage, nothing more. Jesus pronounced judgment on the tree, saying, “Let no one eat fruit from you ever again” (Mark 11:14). The next day, the fig tree had withered away. A spiritual lesson emerges from this story. We can look good on the outside, but only close examination of our lives will reveal if we are bearing any fruit. Many Christians appear religious, but not all who profess the name of Jesus actually reveal Him in their lives. Just like a tree has roots that nourish and sustain the tree, allowing it to bear fruit, so we must abide in Christ. Jesus said, “Abide in Me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in Me. I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in Me, and I in him, bears much fruit; for without Me you can do nothing” (John 15:4, 5).

It’s significant that the parable is open-ended. “But he answered and said to him, ‘Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and fertilize it. And if it bears fruit, well. But if not, after that you can cut it down’ ” (Luke 13:8, 9). The parable ends here, and we never hear what happened after the year ended. We know that ancient Israel as a nation failed to be the example God intended it to be. What about spiritual Israel today? We are all trees planted by the river. God does all He can to connect Himself with us so we can bear fruit. Ultimately, we must allow Him to do this work within us. We will each individually finish this parable.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What areas of your life are barren, and how can you begin bearing fruit in them?`