---
title: New Opportunities
date: 21/08/2024
---

#### inVite

Jesus does everything He possibly can to develop His character in us.

The owner and the dresser of the vineyard are one in their interest in the fig tree. So the Father and the Son were one in their love for the chosen people. Christ was saying to His hearers that increased opportunities would be given them. Every means that the love of God could devise would be put in operation that they might become trees of righteousness, bringing forth fruit for the blessing of the world. (Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons [1900], 216)

Jesus spares no effort to help His people flourish so they can give to the world what they have received from Him. He declared that the gospel will go into all the world as a witness before the end comes (Matt. 24:14). This means that the gospel will be both lived and preached by God’s people. God’s blessings must be both proclaimed and experienced. We receive so we can give.

Fortunately, Jesus does not easily give up on His chosen people. After the disciple Peter had been with Jesus for three and a half years, he still had a lot to learn and unlearn. When under pressure, he capitulated and denied Jesus three times. Still, Jesus did not cast Peter away. He saw the potential of what Peter could become once restored. Jesus predicted Simon Peter’s fall but added, “Simon, Simon! Indeed, Satan has asked for you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for you, that your faith should not fail; and when you have returned to Me, strengthen your brethren” (Luke 22:31, 32). Peter confessed his sin, and Jesus restored him so he could bear fruit to God’s glory. Christ’s mercy, compassion, and power made Peter into a mighty apostle.

The gospels recount many stories of Jesus giving people second chances and new opportunities to bear fruit. Through all our ups and downs, Jesus is not just idly waiting until we get our act together. He is investing in us, just like the vinedresser nourished the tree. He does everything in His power to save us and make us witnesses to others.

The book of Acts tells the story of Paul and Barnabas as they set out on their first missionary journey. They took a young man named John Mark with them. Because of the difficulties and trials the three men faced, John Mark abandoned the mission. Later, he reconsidered and expressed his desire to rejoin the two apostles on another mission trip. While Paul emphatically denied the young man a second chance, Barnabas was ready to take John Mark under his wing once again. Though Paul and Barnabas parted because of this very issue (Acts 15:39), Paul later acknowledged that John Mark became a useful disciple (2 Tim. 4:11). The name Barnabas means “son of encouragement.” Like the vinedresser, Barnabas was patient with John Mark, despite his early discouragement and burnout. Thanks to the encouragement received from Barnabas, John Mark again became a fruitful worker for God.

`In what way do you sense Jesus is nourishing you spiritually so you can bear fruit?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you personally through the text of the week?`

`Prayer Response:`