---
title:  The Fuel that Caused Rapid Expansion
date:   11/11/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Malachi 3:1–10**

**The Fuel that Caused Rapid Expansion**

In the early days of Adventism, leaders often supported their travels and preaching by doing any jobs they could find. In the first years of their marriage, James and Ellen White struggled financially as they sacrificed nearly all their possessions to fund the printing of books and periodicals. James would often lay railroad tracks or cut grass by hand to earn just a few dollars to live on and purchase printing supplies. Their diet was very limited. They could not afford potatoes or butter. Beans were a staple in their house, much to the dismay of Uriah Smith, one of over a dozen volunteers living with the Whites in Rochester, New York, in 1852. At age 20, Uriah Smith sacrificed a very lucrative job to join the unpaid team helping James White publish biweekly editions of the Advent Review and Sabbath Herald. These were trying times for the early pioneers who were willing to work without pay because they valued the message they published above all else.

In the mid-1850s, J.N. Andrews and J.N. Loughborough moved their families to Waukon, Iowa to start spreading the gospel among the new farming community, but shortly after arriving, they both stopped working in full-time ministry and resorted to manual labor to support their families. The preachers were startled when in the coldest part of winter James and Ellen White unexpectedly arrived in town. After reconnecting with the Whites and some deep heart searching, both men returned to preaching. Ministry was a very difficult life without a system in place to provide financial support.

It wasn’t until 1859 that the church officially adopted Systematic Benevolence (also known as “Sister Betsy”), a system that encouraged each person to give every week. It wasn’t necessarily a tenth of their income as we’re accustomed to today; tithe didn’t support ministers until 1878. As the system for tithing was put into practice, the church rapidly grew in North America and spread to other continents. God blessed the biblical model of systematic giving to support a worldwide mission. This week’s lesson will further explore the reasons to give our tithes and freewill offerings for the support of God’s work and the blessings that come from it.

#### inScribe

Write out Malachi 3:1–10 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `