---
title:  Systematic Benevolence
date:   12/11/2023
---

#### inGest

Systematic Benevolence, the system of offerings that the Adventists used for almost two decades just after the church was founded, was based primarily on 1 Corinthians 16:2 and 2 Corinthians 9:5–7. J.N. Andrews, James White, and J.B. Frisbie were key in developing this system, which instructed men to set aside between five and twenty-five cents, women to set aside between two and ten cents, and those who owned property to set aside between one and five cents for every $100 in property they owned. This money was to be used to spread the three angels’ messages.

Ellen White was in favor of the plan and wrote in 1859 that “there is order in heaven, and God is well pleased with the efforts of His people in trying to move with system and order in His work on earth. . . . God is leading His people in the plan of systematic benevolence” (Testimonies for the Church, vol. 1 [1855], 191). James White promoted the plan in the Review and many people adopted it, but God still had more to teach His people.

In 1876, D.M. Canright published two articles in the Advent Review and Sabbath Herald showing from the Bible that that God requires His people to give one tenth of their income. Canright’s articles paid special attention to Abraham and his family paying tithe in Genesis and the tithing requirements of the Mosaic law (Gen 14:20; 28:22; Lev. 27:30–32). The General Conference convened a special session that same year to discuss this matter and voted that they would not only accept the change but would also prepare a tract to explain it. James White, D.M. Canright, S.N. Haskell, J.N. Andrews, and Uriah Smith wrote the tract, which taught that believers should return 10 percent of their income (a tithe) to God and give free will offerings in addition to this 10 percent.

The third chapter of Malachi had a huge influence on the direction the church took regarding its system of financial support—decisions that still impact us today. This passage of scripture is one of the clearest in highlighting the importance of returning tithes and offerings to God and revealing our guilt when we withhold resources from God. It also promises profound blessings to those who are faithful to God—blessings that our church has benefitted from greatly since adopting this practice. Implementing the biblical model of tithes and offerings has financially fueled the global mission of the church, the preaching of the gospel, the sending of missionaries, and the planting of churches all around the world. Today, those who believe in the mission and the message of the Seventh-day Adventist Church will be faithful with tithes and offerings so that we may see God’s work prosper.

The message of Malachi is an invitation to return to God in a time of severe backsliding. The book of Malachi was most likely written after 515 b.c. while the Persian Empire was still in power. Malachi references the temple and its ceremonies, indicating that the temple had been rebuilt and was functioning again (Mal. 1:7–10; 2:11; 3:1). He exposes the unfaithfulness of God’s people during this time and challenges his audience to return to faithfulness regarding intermarriage with idol worshippers, corruption of the priesthood, and robbing God of tithes and offerings. Just as God was eager to bless His people in Malachi, so God wants to bless His people today if we will be faithful to Him.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`Seventh-day Adventists were slowly led to the biblical model of tithes and offerings over a period of two decades. What does this teach us about how God reveals truth to us?`