---
title:  A Stewardship Witness
date:   13/11/2023
---

### inTerpret

God gave us the tithing system as a gift. Not only does it enrich our faith but it also supports God’s work on earth. The tithe is holy and belongs to God; to withhold it is to rob Him, and robbing God has dire consequences. Malachi 3:8 is very clear with both the question it poses and the answer it provides: Will a man rob God by withholding tithe and offerings and get away with it? No, certainly not.

God holds us accountable for only the truths we know (Acts 17:30). The truth about tithing goes back to the days of Abraham; the Israelites (for whom Malachi was written) certainly knew better than to withhold their giving. This is why God called them out so pointedly, for they were robbing Him. However, the early Adventists didn’t know the importance of the practice, so God allowed time for them to grow in their understanding of this truth before holding them accountable for its application.

Malachi 3:9 reveals that robbing God results in a curse, which in the Israelites’ case was crop failure (v. 11). This warning is followed by a promise in verse 10: when we faithfully bring all the tithes into God’s house, He will pour out such a great blessing that there will not be enough room to receive it all.

Verse 12 furthers this promise, saying “all nations will call you blessed.” God wants His people to be witnesses in the area of stewardship. When we recognize God in our tithes and offerings as the Giver of wealth, He in turn blesses us all the more, which is a witness to others. Tithing is not something we do to gain more wealth. We do it because we love God and recognize that all that we have belongs to Him. He has given us the ability to work and blesses us in so many different ways. Returning 10 percent is a simple recognition of God’s provision in our lives. God blesses us so that we can bless others (Gen. 12:2). Giving our tithes and offerings for the advancement of God’s work shows that we are sharing the blessings God has given us for others’ benefit. Faithfulness in tithes and generosity in offerings is one way to set the tone for an outward-focused life motivated by gratitude to God.

It is interesting to note that some great businessmen in modern history have ascribed their prosperity to being faithful in returning tithe. John D. Rockefeller, famous oil tycoon and the world’s first billionaire, began tithing when he was earning only $3.50 a week. Other extremely wealthy industrialists such as H.J. Heinz of the condiment company, H.P. Crowell of Quaker Oats, J.L. Kraft of Kraft Foods, F.W. Woolworth of Foot Locker, William Wrigley of Wrigley’s chewing gum, and William Colgate of Colgate toothpaste and soaps, all put God first in their finances and found that tithing was a blessing to both themselves and the businesses they founded.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How has God blessed you when you have given?`