---
title:  A Thousand Ways to Provide
date:   15/11/2023
---

### inVite

God gave His life for us on the cross; returning 10 percent of what we earn is the least we can give Him. The better we understand Jesus’ sacrifice, the more we realize that any gift we give is like a tiny drop of water compared to the ocean of God’s love. And the more we drink of God’s love the more we want to give in response. Jesus promises in Matthew 6:33 that when we seek God and His righteousness first, our heavenly Father will take care of us. The key is to get our priorities right and place God first.

Malachi 3 expounds on a key aspect of God’s character that is often overlooked: His desire to show His strength on our behalf. We often focus on Christ’s humility, which is frequently emphasized in Scripture, but there is a strong side of God that takes pleasure in blessing His people in visible ways. 2 Chronicles 16:9 supports this idea, saying God searches the earth for people through which He can show His strength. When we give our tithes and freewill offerings, we give God a chance to do amazing things in our lives that will strengthen our faith and be a powerful witness to others. When we keep everything for ourselves, we rob God of two things: the resources that belong to Him, and His opportunity to show Himself strong through us. Those who do not return tithes and offerings are doubly guilty of robbing God. We also rob ourselves when we aren’t faithful in our giving, for we miss out on the faith-building experiences God will lead us through when we put Him first.

God challenges us to test His faithfulness by returning an honest tithe. It’s our privilege to experience His blessings in response to our giving—blessings so abundant that we can’t receive all of it (Mal. 3:10). This isn’t a prosperity gospel (a teaching that says we are guaranteed riches when we follow God) since it doesn’t specify what form the blessings will come in. For Israel, it likely would have been a bountiful harvest, but today, these blessings can come in many forms. They are not restricted to financial ones.

Sadly, God’s desire to bless us is often greater than our desire to be faithful to Him. Malachi 3 identifies two motivations for giving to God: sustaining the provisions in the house of God, and experiencing God’s generosity toward those who give. The former is the result of what is physically brought and the latter is the result of what God will do in response. Have you ever tested God’s faithfulness? Have you ever made a sacrifice but seen God come through and bless you in ways you couldn’t have imagined? God “has a thousand ways to provide for us of which we know nothing” (Ellen White, The Ministry of Healing [1905], 481). If tithing is a habitual part of our lives, receiving blessings will be as well! We know from Malachi 3:2, 3 that Jesus is coming back and those whom He will take with Him to heaven are those who have been refined and purified in the refiner’s fire. Returning a faithful tithe is one method Jesus uses to refine our characters and prepare us for His return.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What does Jesus’ sacrifice teach us about true giving?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`