---
title:  The Suffering Of Jesus
date:  17/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Luke 2:7, 22–24; Leviticus 12:6–8; Matthew 2:1–18; Matthew 12:22–24; Luke 4:21–30; John 8:58, 59; Mark 14:34; Matthew 26:39; Mark 14:33–36; Luke 22:41–44; Mark 15:38; Matthew 27:45, 51, 52; Acts 14:22; Philippians 1:29; 2 Timothy 3:12; John 10:28; Romans 6:23; Titus 1:2; and 1 John 2:25.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “About three o’clock Jesus cried out loudly, ‘Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?’ This means ‘My God, my God, why have you left me alone?’ ” (Matthew 27:46, ERV).

ANYTIME WE STUDY THE TOPIC OF SUFFERING, we must ask the question: How did sin and suffering first start? The Bible gives us good answers. Sin and suffering happened because angels didn’t respect the gift of freedom that God gave them. This answer leads us to ask another question: Did God know ahead of time that the angels were going to sin? Yes, but as C. S. Lewis wrote, God felt that giving the angels the freedom to choose was “worth the risk.”

Worth the risk? For what? For us, while God sits on His throne in heaven? Not exactly. In God’s eyes, freedom is so precious. That is why He made us free. God also chose to accept our punishment and suffer for us if we chose to sin. We see this suffering in the life and death of Jesus. Jesus suffered as a human. His suffering connects humans on earth with God in heaven forever.