---
title:  Hated And Rejected By Men 
date:  19/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read these verses: Matthew 12:22–24; Luke 4:21–30; and John 8:58, 59. As you read, remember that Jesus was God. Remember also that He made the skies and the earth. Remember that Jesus came to offer Himself for the sins of everyone, too. How do these verses help us understand the pain that Jesus suffered on this earth?`

People everywhere always misunderstood Jesus. They didn’t understand His life, acts, and teachings. The leaders didn’t understand Jesus. Sometimes the people didn’t understand Him, too. Later, their misunderstanding caused the people to hate Jesus and reject Him. Think about it: Jesus was hated and rejected by the very people He came to save! Parents with disobedient children may understand a little bit about what Jesus felt. Parents understand that their children need help. The parents are willing to give everything to help their children. But the children reject the parent. The sad thing is that the parents may be the only ones who can keep their children’s lives from being destroyed. This example helps us understand Jesus’ own experience on earth. That experience must have been very painful for Him.

`Read Matthew 23:37. What does this verse tell us about how Jesus felt about being rejected? As you read, ask yourself, Was Jesus feeling bad for Himself (as we often do when we are rejected)? Or was Jesus feeling bad for another reason? If yes, what was it?`

We have all felt rejected before. Maybe we felt pain for the same reason Jesus felt pain. We are hurt because of what we are losing. We feel hurt because we know what the person will lose when they reject us. Now think about how Jesus felt when many Jews hated him. Jesus knew what would happen to the people when they rejected Him. “Jesus was innocent. Because He was not guilty of doing any sin, He suffered deeply when Satan hurt Him and attacked Him.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 3, page 129, adapted.

`What can you learn from Jesus that can help you live with the pain when someone rejects you?`