---
title:  Jesus In Gethsemane 
date:  20/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

“He said to them, ‘My heart is very sad. I am almost dying! Stay here and watch’ ” (Mark 14:34, WE).

Whatever pain Jesus suffered in His 33 years here on earth, none of it compared to the pain He suffered in His final hours before He died on the cross. Before anyone sinned, God planned for Jesus to become the offering for our sins (Ephesians 1:1–4; 2 Timothy 1:8, 9; Titus 1:1, 2). Now that plan was happening.

`Read Matthew 26:39; Mark 14:33–36; and Luke 22:41–44. What do these verses tell us about Jesus’ suffering in Gethsemane?`

“Jesus stepped away, just a little, from His followers. But He did not go too far away so that they couldn’t see or hear Him. Then Jesus fell on the ground. Jesus felt that sin separated Him from His Father. The separation was so big that Jesus shook with pain. But He did not use His power as God to escape this suffering. As a man, Jesus must suffer for man’s sin. As a man, Jesus must suffer God’s anger against sin.

“Now Jesus had an experience He never had before. Maybe better than anyone else, Zechariah explains what Jesus suffered at that time: ‘The Lordord All-Powerful says, “Sword, wake up and strike [kill] the shepherd, my friend! Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will run away. And I will punish those little ones.” ’ Zechariah 13:7, [ERV]. Jesus was the substitute for man. As his substitute, Jesus now suffered God’s punishment against sin. Jesus saw what God’s punishment meant. Before this time, Jesus helped people by going to God for them. Now Jesus deeply wanted someone to go to God for Him.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 686, adapted.

`Think about what happened to Jesus in Gethsemane. God already started to put on Jesus the sins from everyone. Try to make a picture in your mind of that heavy experience. God has never asked any human before then or since that time to do what Jesus did. What does this story about Jesus tell us about God’s love for us? What hope does God’s love give you?`