---
title:  Jesus On The Cross 
date:  21/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Dying on a cross was one of the most terrible punishments the Romans gave to anyone. The cross was the worst way to die. So, we can feel sorry for anyone who died on a cross. Most of all, we can feel sorry for Jesus. He didn’t do anything wrong!

We must always remember that Jesus came in a human body the same as ours. He was beaten. He was whipped. Nails were hammered into His hands and feet. As Jesus hung on the cross, His own body weight pulled Him down against the nails and tore at His deep cuts. The pain must have been awful! This was a terrible death, even for the worst criminal. But Jesus was innocent of any crimes. So, it was not fair at all that He should die on a cross.

**What happened during the time Jesus died? How do these things show us that more was going on than most people there understood at the time?**

`Matthew 27:45`

`Matthew 27:51, 52`

`Mark 15:38`

For sure, much more was happening in this story than just the death of an innocent man. The Bible tells us that God’s anger against sin, our sin, was poured on Jesus. Jesus on the cross suffered a holy God’s holy anger against sin, the sins of all humans. So, we can be sure that Jesus suffered something far more painful than any human can ever know.

`Jesus suffered for you personally on the cross. What hope and comfort does His suffering give you?`