---
title:  The Suffering God 
date:  22/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

We may as well get used to it: we will suffer until the Second Coming. We suffer when we choose to sin. The Bible does not promise us anything different.

`Read Acts 14:22; Philippians 1:29; and 2 Timothy 3:12. What do these verses tell us about suffering?`

For sure, we will suffer in this life. At the same time, we must remember two things.

First, Jesus our Lord suffered worse than any of us ever have or will. At the cross, Jesus “took [accepted] on Himself our troubles and carried [suffered] our sorrows [the same painful experiences we have in life]” (Isaiah 53:4, NLV). When we suffer punishment, we don’t suffer for anyone else. But Jesus suffered for everyone. He who never sinned became “sin for us” (2 Corinthians 5:21, KJV). Jesus suffered in a way that we, as sinners, can’t begin to understand.

Second, as we suffer, we need to remember that Jesus suffered for us. That is, we must remember what God promises to give us because of Jesus’ offering for us on the cross.

`Read John 10:28; Romans 6:23; Titus 1:2; and 1 John 2:25. What do these verses promise us?`

Whatever we suffer in this life, we can stand perfect in Jesus right now. How is that possible? Jesus accepted our punishment on the cross. So, by faith we have the promise of everlasting life. Thanks to Jesus, His perfect life, and His perfect offering, a better future awaits us. Thanks to Jesus, we will live forever on a new earth. Sin will be no more. Suffering and death will be destroyed forever. God promises all these things to us because of Jesus and everything He suffered for us. We have so much to be thankful for because of our Savior!