---
title:  Further Thought
date:  23/09/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Gethsemane,” pages 685–697, and “Calvary,” pages 741–757, in The Desire of Ages.

“Three times Jesus said that prayer. Three times His human side pulled back from giving Himself up as an offering for our sins. But now our Savior sees a vision of the whole history of humans. He sees that sinners will be destroyed if no one helps them. Jesus sees that humans are helpless. Jesus sees that sin is powerful. Jesus sees the pain and suffering of humans. Jesus sees that humans must die. So, He makes His decision. He will save humans no matter what price He must pay. Jesus accepts that He must spill His blood to save us. Because of Jesus, millions of people will have everlasting life. Jesus left the courts in heaven. There, everything is clean, happy, and full of glory. Jesus left all that glory to save the one lost sheep. That is, Jesus came to save the one planet that sinned by breaking God’s law. Jesus will not reject that work. He will become the sin offering for the people on this earth. He will offer Himself for people who chose to sin. Jesus’ prayer now changes. He prays only that He will do what God sent Him to do: ‘My Father, if it is possible, don’t make me drink from this cup [death on the cross]. But do what you want, not what I want’ [Matthew 26:42, ERV].”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 690, 693, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How does it help us in our sufferings to know that God Himself suffered more than any of us ever can suffer? What must we remember about sufferings?`

`Review the things that Jesus suffered. What were the tests that Jesus took and passed for us? How are these tests the same as the ones we take? How are they different? What can we learn from Jesus about how He behaved and acted during His times of suffering?`

`What are some of your favorite Bible promises? How do they help you when you suffer? Share the promises with the class.`

`What important Bible truths did you learn this quarter? What questions did you have that got answered? What questions do you have? How can we help each other find answers to the questions?`