---
title:  Human-made Theocracies
date:   10/02/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Ezekiel 21**

**Human-made Theocracies**

When John Calvin was a young adult, he happened to be passing through a town just as a man was being burned at the stake, paying the ultimate price for his faith. Calvin was deeply impressed by the expression of peace and hope on the dying man’s face and decided to investigate the Scriptures in hopes of discovering what would inspire a person to prioritize faith over life itself. Calvin’s study of the Bible eventually led him to look to Jesus as his only source of salvation, abandoning the church traditions taught in Catholicism.

At twenty-eight, Calvin moved from France to Geneva, Switzerland, where he found a robust community of people from across Europe who had fled the severe religious persecution in their countries. Geneva provided a place where the people could follow the Bible’s guidelines for study and worship, for the city had freed herself from Rome’s rule and was the perfect place for a new form of church and government. Rather unfortunately, however, this new order followed the same old spirit of religious control. Having gained political power, Calvin instituted another human-made theocracy in which every citizen was expected to publicly swear allegiance to Christianity. With Calvin becoming the leader of both church and state, there was very little distinction between civil and religious institutions. Calvin succeeded in passing many laws geared toward enforcing Christian practices.

Calvin’s religious intolerance is especially exemplified in how he handled Michael Severtus, a man he deemed a heretic for denying the doctrines of the Trinity and infant baptism. Even though Severtus had narrowly escaped death at the hands of Roman Catholics in France and was therefore a fellow escapee from persecution, Calvin ordered that he be immediately arrested upon his arrival in Geneva. In 1553, a general council condemned Severtus and burned him at the stake on a pile of his own books. The persecuted had again become the persecutor. This week’s lesson examines why believers should reject the theocratic form of government and why God hasn’t appointed another theocracy since Israel.

### inScribe

Write out Ezekiel 21 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 24–27. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._