---
title:  Overthrown, Overthrown, Overthrown!
date:   11/02/2024
---

### inGest

Throughout history, God has implemented various kinds of human government that satisfied the needs of the time. God used His servant Moses to establish Israel as a theocracy, which can be defined as “a form of government in which all the affairs of men, whether temporal or spiritual, civil or religious, are united under the control of God” (A.G. Daniells, Liberty Magazine, vol. 12, [1917]). The theocracy became an extension of God’s kingdom in heaven where God’s laws and judgments are absolute. Under ancient Israel’s theocracy, Sabbath breaking, cursing parents, sexual sins, communicating with the dead, disregarding annual feast days, blasphemy, and idolatry were all punishable by death (Exod. 35:2; Lev. 20:9–16, 27; 23:30, 24:16; Deut. 13:6–10), penalties which foreshadowed God’s verdict against sin in the final judgment (Rev. 20:11–15). The laws in the books of Moses make no distinction between government and church. The Levitical priesthood exercised both religious and civil authority, enforcing both religious and civil laws.

Centuries later, when Israel begged for a king, God established the throne of David as an extension of His throne in heaven. 1 Chronicles 29:33 says, “Then Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord as king instead of David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him” (emphasis added). The king of Israel sat on God’s earthly throne and enforced God’s laws. As in Moses’ time, David’s kingdom derived its power directly from God. However, the kings who followed David formed a long history that was largely characterized by disloyalty to God. In the days of Ezekiel and Jeremiah, prophets gave multiple severe warnings that God was terribly displeased with the abuse of power and lack of responsibility demonstrated by Israel’s leaders.

One such prophet, Ezekiel, was among the captives taken to Babylon in the days of Jehoiachin, the second-to-last king in Jerusalem. In Babylon, God gave Ezekiel visions and dreams that revealed the total disaster destined for Jerusalem and its inhabitants. The destruction of their nation served as a painful warning of how far the people had departed from their covenant with Him. As the leaders held the most responsibility for the people’s unfaithfulness, the judgments were first and foremost against them. The unfaithful king and princes in Jerusalem, who were direct descendants of David and represented God’s throne on earth, were conquered and taken captive to Babylon. The throne that belonged to David’s descendants was permanently overthrown never to be reestablished on earth.

Ezekiel 21:18–26 clearly identifies Babylon as the power that would take the crown from the king in Jerusalem. The prophecy then specifies that three powers would be overthrown following Babylon: “Overthrown, overthrown, I will make it overthrown!” (v. 27). Sure enough, Medo-Persia eventually overthrew Babylon, Greece overthrew Persia, and Rome overthrew Greece. Each of those powers, from Babylon to Rome, prevented the throne from being reestablished in Jerusalem. The prophetic chapter also says the royal family in Jerusalem would remain overthrown until the Messiah came: “It shall be no longer, until He comes whose right it is” (v. 27). The throne in Jerusalem would remain unoccupied until Messiah came. Humanity had corrupted the form of government used under the Old Covenant, necessitating that it be completely replaced under the New Covenant.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`Do you think it was God’s mercy, justice, or both that led to His decision to overthrow David’s throne? How so?`

`What does this prophecy teach about the mission of the Messiah?`