---
title:  One Kingdom Commission
date:   12/02/2024
---

### inTerpret

God promised David that his throne would be “established forever” three times in 2 Samuel 7:12–16, and Psalm 89:34–37 again promises that David’s descendants would continue to reign forever. However, in fulfillment of Ezekiel 21’s prophecy, Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon, ended the Davidic line of kings when he removed Zedekiah from the throne (Jer. 52). So what do we do with the many promises that David’s throne would continue forever?

Long before the earthly line of kings was broken, Isaiah foretold in the well-known prophecy about Christ’s birth that the Messiah would ultimately fulfill these promises: “Of the increase of His government and peace there will be no end, upon the throne of David and over His kingdom, to order it and establish it with judgment and justice from that time forward, even forever” (9:7). The angel Gabriel later assured Mary, Jesus’ mother, of the same thing: “The Lord God will give Him the throne of His father David. And He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of His kingdom there will be no end” (Luke 1:32, 33).

At the end of Revelation, Jesus identified Himself as both the Father and Son of David. He said, “I am the Root and the Offspring of David, the Bright and Morning Star” (22:16), showing that His throne in heaven fulfilled all the promises David received. Revelation 4 and 5 reveal that Jesus was crowned King in heaven after His resurrection and ascension. Only Jesus could be both David’s Father and his Son, for He was David’s Father before He came to earth (Luke 3:31–38) and his Son after (Matt. 22:41–46). No angel could fill that role.

When Jesus took David’s throne to heaven, He eliminated all legitimate forms of earthly government that claim to have been directly commissioned by God. The kingdom Jesus commissioned after His resurrection is a heavenly kingdom, not an earthly one, and it is from this heavenly kingdom that Christ delegated legal power to His disciples. Jesus told them this, saying, “Assuredly I say to you, that in the regeneration, when the Son of Man sits on the throne of His glory, you who have followed Me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel” (Matt. 19:28). In fulfillment of Christ’s commission, the disciples were to go no further in building an earthly kingdom than Jesus went. Christ gave the disciples leave to build only one kingdom commission, not multiple: “And I bestow upon you a kingdom, just as My Father bestowed one upon Me, that you may eat and drink at My table in My kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel” (Luke 22:29, 30). Therefore, any form of government that claims a direct commission from God directly affronts the government Jesus established when He moved David’s throne to heaven.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why did God choose to overthrow David’s throne if He promised it would last forever?`