---
title:  The Nature of the Commission
date:   15/02/2024
---

### inSight

“The commission that Christ gave to His disciples just before His ascension is the great missionary charter of His kingdom. In giving it to the disciples, the Saviour made them His ambassadors and gave them their credentials. If, afterward, they should be challenged and asked by what authority they, unlearned fishermen, went forth as teachers and healers, they could reply: ‘He whom the Jews crucified, but who rose from the dead, appointed us to the ministry of His word, declaring, “All power is given unto Me in heaven and in earth.” ’ ” (Ellen White, _Testimonies for the Church, vol. 8_ [1904], 14.)

“Just before leaving His disciples, Christ once more plainly stated the nature of His kingdom. He recalled to their remembrance things He had previously told them regarding it. He declared that it was not His purpose to establish in this world a temporal kingdom. He was not appointed to reign as an earthly monarch on David’s throne. When the disciples asked Him, ‘Lord, wilt Thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?’ He answered, ‘It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in His own power.’ Acts 1:6, 7. It was not necessary for them to see farther into the future than the revelations He had made enabled them to see. Their work was to proclaim the gospel message.” (Ellen White, _Acts of the Apostles_ [1911], 30.)

“During His ministry, Jesus had kept constantly before the disciples the fact that they were to be one with Him in His work for the recovery of the world from the slavery of sin. When He sent forth the Twelve and afterward the Seventy, to proclaim the kingdom of God, He was teaching them their duty to impart to others what He had made known to them. In all His work He was training them for individual labor, to be extended as their numbers increased, and eventually to reach to the uttermost parts of the earth. The last lesson He gave His followers was that they held in trust for the world the glad tidings of salvation.” (Ibid., 32.)

“When Christ was on this earth, He chose twelve disciples to be constantly with Him. These it was His purpose to train for His work. He did not call their attention to the purposes and laws of the kingdoms of the world, but to a higher, holier theme—the purposes and laws of the kingdom of God. He did not speak to them of politics, but of the subjects that concerned them as stewards of His grace. He gave them a general idea of the character of His kingdom, and of its working, as a kingdom of grace in this world and a kingdom of glory in the future world. He told them that it was not an earthy, temporal kingdom, but a kingdom that would endure forever. He revealed to them the covenant of peace, the great charter that declares the principles of His kingdom.” (Ellen White, _Letter 65_, 1902, para. 12.)

`After this week’s study of the passage, what are some personal applications you are convicted of in your life?`

`What are practical applications you must make in your school, family, workplace, and church life?`

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`