---
title:  Contrary Passages?
date:  19/11/2022
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Luke 16:19–31, Luke 23:43, John 20:17, Phil. 1:21–24, 1 Pet. 3:13–20, Rev. 6:9–11.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “ ‘You search the Scriptures for in them you think you have eternal life; and these are they which testify of Me’ ” (John 5:39, NKJV).

Peter warns us: “Always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you” (1 Pet. 3:15, NKJV). Paul adds, “Preach the word! Be ready in season and out of season. Convince, rebuke, exhort, with all longsuffering and teaching. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine” (2 Tim. 4:2, 3, NKJV). This being the case, we should look not only at those passages that easily can be explained to fit our beliefs but also at passages that are commonly used to teach something different from what we believe.

As we do, we should follow the inspiring example of Jesus. “Christ Himself did not suppress one word of truth, but He spoke it always in love. . . . He was never rude, never needlessly spoke a severe word, never gave needless pain to a sensitive soul. He did not censure human weakness.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, p. 353.

This week we will study some intriguing passages that people use to justify the natural immortality of the soul. These reflections should strengthen our own convictions and help us to answer kindly those who question this crucial teaching.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, November 26._---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

A correct understanding of “what saith the Scriptures” in regard to the state of the dead is essential for this time. God’s Word declares that the dead know not anything, their hatred and love have alike perished. We must come to the sure word of prophecy for our authority. Unless we are intelligent in the Scriptures, may we not, when this mighty miracle-working power of Satan is manifested in our world, be deceived and call it the workings of God; for the Word of God declares that, if it were possible, the very elect should be deceived. Unless we are rooted and grounded in the truth, we shall be swept away by Satan’s delusive snares. We must cling to our Bibles. If Satan can make you believe that there are things in the Word of God that are not inspired, he will then be prepared to ensnare your soul. We shall have no assurance, no certainty, at the very time we need to know what is truth.—_Advent Review and Sabbath Herald_, December 18, 1888.

Every species of delusion is now being brought in. The plainest truths of God’s Word are covered with a mass of man-made theories. Deadly errors are presented as the truth to which all must bow. The simplicity of true godliness is buried beneath tradition.<br/>
The doctrine of the natural immortality of the soul is one error with which the enemy is deceiving man. This error is well-nigh universal.<br/>
This is one of the lies forged in the synagogue of the enemy, one of the poisonous drafts of Babylon. “All nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies. And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, My people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.”—_Evangelism_, p. 247.

The question of the non-immortality of the soul also needs to be treated with great care, lest in introducing the subject there be started a deep and exciting controversy, which will close the door to further investigation of the truth.<br/>
Great wisdom is required in dealing with human minds, even in giving a reason of the hope that is within us. . . . What is the hope of which we are to give a reason?—the hope of eternal life through Jesus Christ. . . .<br/>
. . . You dwell too much upon special ideas and doctrines, and the heart of the unbeliever is not softened. To try to impress him is like striking upon cold iron. . . .<br/>
. . . We are in constant need of wisdom to know when to speak and when to keep silent. But there is always perfect safety in talking of the hope of eternal life. And when the heart is all melted and subdued by the love of Jesus, the inquiry will be, “Lord, what must I do to be saved?”—_Letter 12_, 1890.