---
title:  “To Depart and Be With Christ”
date:  22/11/2022
---

`Read Philippians 1:21–24 and 1 Thessalonians 4:13–18. When did Paul expect to be “with Christ” (Phil. 1:23) and “with the Lord” (1 Thess. 4:17)?`

Paul was driven with the passion to live “in Christ” now (2 Cor. 5:17) and “with Christ” after His second coming (see 1 Thess. 4:17). For the apostle, not even death could break the assurance of belonging to his Savior and Lord. As he said in the epistle to the Romans, “neither death nor life” can “separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord” (Rom. 8:38, 39, NKJV). “For if we live, we live to the Lord; and if we die, we die to the Lord. Therefore, whether we live or die, we are the Lord’s” (Rom. 14:8, NKJV).

With this certainty in mind, Paul spoke of the believers who already had died as “those who sleep in Jesus” (1 Thess. 4:14, NKJV) and who will be raised at Christ’s second coming to receive eternal life (1 Cor. 15:16–18, 1 Thess. 4:13–18).

When Paul mentioned his “desire to depart and be with Christ” (Phil. 1:23, NKJV), did he imply that after death his soul would depart to live consciously with Christ? Not at all. In this text, “Paul verbalizes his desire to leave this present troubled existence and be with Christ, without reference to any lapse of time that may occur between the two events. This verse does not teach that Paul expected to go to heaven at death. He was very clear that he would not receive his reward until the Second Coming (2 Tim. 4:8).”—Andrews Study Bible, p. 1555, note on Philippians 1:23.

In short, Paul “is saying that the next thing he would know after departing (death) would be Christ coming in the clouds of heaven to raise the dead, when he would ‘be with the Lord’ (1 Thess. 4:17). It also should be noted that the Bible writers at times refer to two events together that may be separated by a long period of time.”—Andrews Study Bible, p. 1555, note on Philippians 1:23.

But why would Paul prefer to die than to live? Because then he could finally rest from all his troubles, without needing any longer to suffer pain in his body (1 Cor. 9:27, NRSV). And he would do so with the full certainty that he would receive “the crown of righteousness” at the Second Coming (2 Tim. 4:6–8, NKJV). Though Paul certainly didn’t want to die, he knew what would follow when he did.

`Particularly in hard times, who hasn’t thought about how nice it would be to close your eyes in death and, the next thing you know, “be with Christ”? How does this thought help us understand what Paul was saying in Philippians?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When the apostle Paul, through the revelation of Christ, was converted from a persecutor to a Christian, he declared that he was as one born out of due time. Henceforward Christ was all and in all to him. “For to me to live is Christ,” he declared. This is the most perfect interpretation in a few words, in all the Scriptures, of what it means to be a Christian. This is the whole truth of the gospel. Paul understood what many seem unable to comprehend. How intensely in earnest he was! His words show that his mind was centered in Christ, that his whole life was bound up with his Lord. Christ was the author, the support, and the source of his life.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 7, p. 903.

There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing. 2 Timothy 4:8.<br/>
Paul kept ever in view the crown of life which was to be given to him, and not to him only, but also to all those who love Christ’s appearing. But it was victory through Jesus Christ that made the crown of life so desirable to him. Jesus would not have us ambitious to obtain reward, but ambitious to do God’s will because it is His will, irrespective of the reward we are to receive.—Lift Him Up, p. 343.

All along the path that leads to death there are pains and penalties, there are sorrows and disappointments, there are warnings from God’s messengers not to go on, and God will make it hard for the heedless and the headstrong to destroy themselves. All the way up the steep path leading to eternal life are wellsprings of joy to refresh the weary. The true, strong joy of the soul begins when Christ is formed within, the hope of glory. If you now choose the path where God leads, and go forward where the voice of duty calls, the difficulties which Satan has magnified before you will disappear.<br/>
No path is safe, save that which grows clearer and firmer the farther it is pursued. The foot may sometimes slip upon the safest path. In order to walk without fear, you must know that your hand is firmly held by the hand of Christ. . . .<br/>
. . . Look at Paul; listen to his words sounding along the line to our time: “I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith: henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love His appearing” (2 Timothy 4:7, 8). Here is the battle shout of victory from Paul. What will be yours?—Selected Messages, book 2, p. 169.