---
title:  Preaching to the Spirits in Prison
date:  23/11/2022
---

`Read 1 Peter 3:13–20. How did Christ preach “to the spirits in prison . . . in the days of Noah”? (See also Gen. 4:10.)`

Commentators who believe in the natural immortality of the soul usually point out that Christ preached “to the spirits in prison” (1 Pet. 3:19, NKJV) while He was still resting in the tomb. For them, His disincarnated spirit went into hell and preached to the disembodied spirits of the antediluvians.

Yet, this fanciful notion is biblically unacceptable because there is no second opportunity of salvation for the dead (Heb. 9:27, 28). So, why would Jesus preach to those who had no more chance of salvation?

Meanwhile, and most important, this theory contradicts the biblical teaching that the dead remain unconscious in the grave until the final resurrection (Job 14:10–12; Ps. 146:4; Eccles. 9:5, 10; 1 Cor. 15:16–18; 1 Thess. 4:13–15).

Also, if this verse were really saying that Jesus, while bodily in the tomb, went down to hell and preached to the wicked antediluvians, why did only they hear His message? Were no other lost people burning in hell with them? Why did only the antediluvians hear Him preach?

It also is senseless to suggest that Christ preached to the fallen angels who had been disobedient in Noah’s day. While the “spirits in prison” are described as having been disobedient “formerly” (1 Pet. 3:19, 20, NKJV), the Bible speaks of the evil angels as still disobedient today (Eph. 6:12, 1 Pet. 5:8). Furthermore, the fallen angels are “kept in darkness, bound with everlasting chains for judgment on the great Day” _(Jude 6, NIV)_, without any opportunity of salvation.

We should notice that in 1 Peter 3 the “spirits in prison” of verse 19 are identified in verse 20 as the “disobedient” antediluvians in the “days of Noah.” The term spirit (Greek pneuma) is used in this text, and elsewhere in the New Testament (1 Cor. 16:18, Gal. 6:18), in reference to living people who can hear and accept the invitation of salvation. The expression “in prison” obviously refers not to a literal prison, but to the prison of sin in which the unregenerate human nature is found (Rom. 6:1–23, Rom. 7:7–25).

Christ’s preaching to the impenitent antediluvians was accomplished through Noah, who was divinely instructed by God (Heb. 11:7) and became a “preacher of righteousness” to his contemporaries (2 Pet. 2:5). Peter’s verses were written in the context of what it means to be faithful; they are not a commentary on the state of the dead.---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God granted [the antediluvians] one hundred and twenty years of probation, and during that time preached to them through Methuselah, Noah, and many others of His servants. Had they listened to the testimony of these faithful witnesses, had they repente­d and returned to their loyalty, God would not have destroyed them. . . .<br/>
“For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that He might destroy the works of the devil.” Christ was engaged in this warfare in Noah’s day. It was His voice that spoke to the inhabitants of the old world in messages of warning, reproof, and invitation. He gave the people a probation of one hundred and twenty years, in which they might have repented. But they chose the deceptions of Satan, and perished in the waters of the Flood.—Ellen G. White Comments, in The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 1, p. 1088.

Sins that have not been repented of and forsaken will not be pardoned and blotted out of the books of record, but will stand to witness against the sinner in the day of God. He may have committed his evil deeds in the light of day or in the darkness of night; but they were open and manifest before Him with whom we have to do. Angels of God witnessed each sin and registered it in the unerring records. Sin may be concealed, denied, covered up from father, mother, wife, children, and associates; no one but the guilty actors may cherish the least suspicion of the wrong; but it is laid bare before the intelligences of heaven. The darkness of the darkest night, the secrecy of all deceptive arts, is not sufficient to veil one thought from the knowledge of the Eternal. God has an exact record of every unjust account and every unfair dealing. He is not deceived by appearances of piety. He makes no mistakes in His estimation of character. Men may be deceived by those who are corrupt in heart, but God pierces all disguises and reads the inner life. . . .<br/>
As the features of the countenance are reproduced with unerring accuracy on the polished plate of the artist, so the character is faithfully delineated in the books above. Yet how little solicitude is felt concerning that record which is to meet the gaze of heavenly beings. Could the veil which separates the visible from the invisible world be swept back, and the children of men behold an angel recording every word and deed, which they must meet again in the judgment, how many words that are daily uttered would remain unspoken, how many deeds would remain undone.—The Great Controversy, pp. 486, 487.