---
title:  Further Thought
date:  25/11/2022
---

Read Ellen G. White, “ ‘A Great Gulf Fixed,’ ”pp. 260–271, in Christ’s Object Lessons; “Calvary,” pp. 749–752, in The Desire of Ages; and “Teachers as Examples of Christian Integrity,” p. 504, in Fundamentals of Christian Education.

“In the parable of the rich man and Lazarus, Christ shows that in this life men decide their eternal destiny. During probationary time the grace of God is offered to every soul. But if men waste their opportunities in self-pleasing, they cut themselves off from everlasting life. No afterprobation will be granted them. By their own choice they have fixed an impassable gulf between them and their God.”—Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons, p. 260.

“When those early Christians were exiled to mountains and deserts, when left in dungeons to die with hunger, cold, and torture, when martyr­dom seemed the only way out of their distress, they rejoiced that they were counted worthy to suffer for Christ, who was crucified for them. Their worthy example will be a comfort and encouragement to the people of God who will be brought into the time of trouble such as never was.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 213.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How can the overall biblical view of human nature help us better understand some of the passages we studied during this week?`

`Reflect on the contrast between the unnegotiable religion of the Christian martyrs and the flexible religion of our post­modern generation. In other words, what are things worth dying for? However, if one has a view that all truths are merely relative, or cultural, then why die for any of them? At the same time, what can we learn from those who were willing to die for causes that we believe are false?`

`Dwell more on the parable of the rich man and Lazarus. When Jesus had been raised from the dead, many believed on Him. Yet, many, having the same evidence, didn’t believe. What does this teach us about how hardened human hearts can be to truth? What can we do to protect ourselves from a similar kind of hardness?`

`Jesus talked about the time when the dead will live: “ ‘those who have done good, to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil, to the resurrection of condemnation’ ” (John 5:29, NKJV). These two events are a thousand years apart, even though they sound as if they are happening at the same time. How might this help us understand what Paul is saying in Philippians 1:23?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Lift Him Up, “In the Father’s Arms,” p. 103;<br/>
Fundamentals of Christian Education, “Teachers as Examples of Christian Integrity,” p. 504.