---
title:  inGest
date:   24/08/2026
---

### Convicting an Innocent Man

The Jews brought Jesus before Pilate, accusing Him of stirring up sedition by teaching people not to pay taxes to Caesar and claiming to be a king. Pilate asked Jesus, “Are You the King of the Jews?” Jesus replied, “It is as you say” (Luke 23:3). Pilate quickly turned back to the chief priests and said, “I find no fault in this Man” (Luke 23:4). The brevity of this exchange is almost humorous—Pilate clearly saw no threat and wanted the problem to go away. However, Christ’s enemies became more determined to secure His condemnation.

Pilate took Jesus into a private meeting and again asked Him if He is a king. Jesus affirmed that He is, but explained that His kingdom is not of this world. He added, “I have come into the world, that I should bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears My voice” (John 18:37). Pilate famously responded, “What is truth?” (John 18:38). Though the moment was brief, it suggests a flicker of introspection—though Pilate clearly didn’t linger on it.

Although Pilate recognized Jesus’ innocence, he also wanted to be popular with the people and win the favor of the crowd. Hoping to appease their anger, Pilate offered repeatedly to have Jesus whipped and released (Luke 23:16, 22). If Jesus was innocent, as Pilate said, then even having Jesus whipped was an injustice. Once Pilate showed a willingness to indulge their demands even a little bit, the crowd became bolder.

The suggestion that Jesus should go free made the crowd more frenzied. Looking for a way out, Pilate offered to release a prisoner, as was customary during the Passover week. Seeking to appeal to their sense of justice, Pilate asked the crowd to choose between Jesus and Barabbas, a notorious criminal who had been arrested for robbery, murder, and leading a rebellion. These two men stood in striking contrast: a criminal guilty of the worst crimes versus the sinless Son of God. Everyone saw the contrast, yet no one stood to advocate for Jesus. The crowd showed zero mercy. Catching Pilate off guard, the crowd and the religious leaders immediately cred out, “Away with this Man, and release to us Barabbas” (Luke 23:18). They demanded that Jesus be crucified and Barabbas be released.

This exchange sounds outrageous and offensive to us, but we must recognize that every time we choose our favorite sins over Jesus, we’re essentially saying the same thing: “We will not have this Man as Lord over us! We have no king but Caesar! Give us Barabbas!” The sad reality is that we are no better than they were.

**Questions to consider:**

`What are some ways you are tempted to choose Barabbas over Jesus? Ask the Holy Spirit to help you identify and resist those things next time you face the temptation.`

`What lessons can we learn about how to interact with angry crowds?`