---
title:  inTerpret
date:   25/08/2026
---

### The Turning Point

During this chaotic trial, a messenger interrupted Pilate with a startling message from his wife. She had seen Jesus in a dream and urged him not to condemn this “just Man” (Matt. 27:19). Moreover, the crowds demanded Jesus’ death because He claimed to be the Son of God. These two things deeply unsettled Pilate (John 19:7, 8). He questioned Jesus again but received no answer. Pressing further, Pilate reminded Jesus of his authority to release or crucify Him. Jesus replied, “You could have no power at all against Me unless it had been given you from above. Therefore the one who delivered Me to you has the greater sin” (John 19:11). Pilate was reluctant to condemn Jesus but was also afraid to go against the crowd. He distrusted the religious leaders and discerned their envious motives (Matt. 27:18), but despite his correct analysis, he lacked the resolve to stand for what was right.

The turning point came when the crowd questioned Pilate’s loyalty to Caesar. They suggested that Pilate could not be Caesar’s friend if he released someone who claimed to be a king. Pilate was forced to choose between risking his position by staying true to his conscience or protecting his position by compromising his integrity. It was a choice between truth and popularity. Feeling cornered and fearful of weakening his position with Rome, Pilate asked, “Shall I crucify your King?” The chief priests responded with chilling irony, “We have no king but Caesar” (John 19:15)—a shocking statement from men who despised Roman rule.

Pilate had made multiple attempts to defend Jesus’ innocence: “I find no fault in this Man” (Luke 23:4); “neither did Herod” (Luke 23:15); “I have found no reason for death in Him” (Luke 23:22). In a final gesture, Pilate washed his hands before the crowd, saying, “I am innocent of the blood of this just Person” (Matt. 27:24). Undeterred, the crowd shouted back, “His blood be on us and on our children” (Matt. 27:25). Clearly, they were under heavy satanic influence at this point. What they didn’t realize is that this self-inflicted curse would bring terrible consequences. The destruction of Jerusalem in A.D. 70 was a tragic fulfillment of this declaration.

Pilate finally conceded to the demands of the crowd and permitted Jesus to be crucified. He ordered a sign in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin to be placed on the cross that stated the charges against Him: “JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWS” (John 19:19). The leaders objected, but Pilate responded, “What I have written, I have written” (John 19:22). Pilate recognized truth. Nevertheless, when faced with one decision that really mattered, Pilate caved to the demands of the religious leaders for whom he had no respect.

`Why didn’t Pilate stay true to his convictions?`

`In the here and now, when our decisions may not be so life or death, how can we guard against making the wrong choice when it really matters?`

`Memorize your favorite passage from Luke 23:1–31. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`