---
title:  inVite
date:   27/08/2026
---

### Collapsing Under the Cross

After Pilate symbolically washed his hands in front of the people and declared, “I am innocent of the blood of this just Person” (Matt. 27:24), Jesus was handed over to the will of the crowd. At this point, Jesus hadn’t had food or drink since the Last Supper with His disciples. He had wrestled intensely with demonic forces in the Garden of Gethsemane while beginning to bear the eternal weight of sin. He had endured the pain of being betrayed by Judas, denied by Peter, and abandoned by the rest of the disciples. He had received two separate floggings and suffered other violent abuses from both the priests and the Roman soldiers. Covered in lacerations and utterly exhausted in body, mind, and spirit, Jesus was then forced to carry the cross that had been prepared for Barabbas. With the cross on His shoulders, He began the journey to Golgotha.

He walked a few steps but collapsed under the weight of the wooden beams. Though He was mocked and yelled at, He got back up and lifted the cross once more. Yet again, He fell under its humiliating load. His human nature could bear no more. Recognizing that He wouldn’t make it much farther, the soldiers singled out Simon from the North African city of Cyrene. They compelled him to carry the cross for Jesus. This moment proved to be a blessing for Simon and ultimately led to his conversion.<sup>1</sup>

John’s account says Jesus carried His own cross while the other Gospel accounts say Simon of Cyrene ended up carrying it. These aren’t contradictions; they’re chronological details. Jesus began by carrying His own cross, but as His body weakened, the soldiers called Simon to carry the load.

In His human strength, Jesus could not carry the cross alone. He depended on someone to come alongside Him and assist Him. This is a picture of what Christ’s followers can expect. Earlier in His ministry, Jesus invited His disciples to deny themselves, take up their crosses, and follow Him (Matt. 16:24). What did it look like when Jesus took up His cross? He collapsed. He was exhausted. He had nothing left to give and couldn’t carry it anymore.

That’s precisely the point.

That Jesus collapsed under the weight of His cross shows us that we are not failures when we collapse under the weight of our own. He understands. We were never meant to carry our crosses alone. We need help—help that comes from a source outside of ourselves. Even Jesus needed help carrying His cross. If the Savior, the Son of God, needed help, we can accept help in carrying our own crosses and following Him.

**Questions to consider:**

`Have you ever found yourself collapsing under the weight of a cross you’ve been given? Think about what you felt in that moment. How does today’s lesson help you process that?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 742.