---
title:  Overcoming Sin
date:   11/11/2017
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Romans 6, 1 John 1:8–2:1.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace” (Romans 6:14).

If works can’t save us, why bother with them at all? Why not just keep on sinning? Chapter 6 is Paul’s answer to this important question. Paul here is dealing with what commonly is understood as “sanctification,” the process by which we overcome sin and, more and more, reflect the character of Christ. The word sanctification appears only twice in Romans. It appears in Romans 6:19, 22 as the Greek word *hagiasmos*, which means “sanctification.” In English, it appears in these two texts as the word holiness.

Does this mean that Paul has nothing to say about what commonly is understood by sanctification? Not at all.

In the Bible “to sanctify” means “to dedicate,” usually to God. Thus, to be sanctified often is presented as a past completed act. For example, “all them which are sanctified” (Acts 20:32). The sanctified ones in this definition are the ones who are dedicated to God.

But this biblical usage of “sanctify” in no way denies the important doctrine of sanctification or the fact that sanctification is the work of a lifetime. The Bible strongly endorses this doctrine, but it generally uses other terms to describe it.

This week we’ll look at another side of salvation by faith, one that easily can be misunderstood: the promises of victory over sin in the life of one saved by Jesus.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, November 18._
