---
title:  It’s Contagious
date:  05/07/2021
---

`Read Numbers 12:1–3. What were Miriam and Aaron upset about?`

Ostensibly, Miriam and Aaron were unhappy about Moses’ Cushite wife. Zipporah was an outsider hailing from Midian (see Exod. 3:1). Even among Israel’s “elite,” the fallenness of their nature was revealed, and not in a very pleasant way, either. (Is it ever?)

The biblical text, however, clearly shows this to be a pretext. The main focus of their complaint is about the prophetic gift. In the previous chapter God had told Moses to appoint 70 of Israel’s elders who would help Moses carry the administrative burden of leadership (Num. 11:16, 17, 24, 25). Aaron and Miriam had been playing key leadership roles, as well (Exod. 4:13–15, Micah 6:4), but now they felt threatened by the new leadership development and said, “ ‘Has the Lord indeed spoken only through Moses? Has He not spoken through us also?’ ” (Num. 12:2, NKJV).

`How does God respond to this complaint? Read Numbers 12:4–13. Why do you think God responds so decisively?`

God’s response was immediate and leaves no room for interpretation. The prophetic gift is not a weapon to be used to wield more power. Moses was well suited for leadership because he had learned how extremely dependent he was on God.

The fact that Miriam is mentioned before Aaron in Numbers 12:1 suggests she may have been the instigator of the attack on Moses. At this time, Aaron was serving as Israel’s high priest. If he had been struck with leprosy, he would not have been able to enter the tabernacle and minister on the people’s behalf. God’s punishment of Miriam with temporary leprosy communicates vividly His displeasure with both of them and helps bring about the attitude change that this family needs. Aaron’s plea for her affirms that he, too, was involved (Num. 12:11), and now instead of criticism and restlessness, we see Aaron pleading for Miriam, and we see Moses interceding on her behalf (Num. 12:11–13). This is the attitude that God wants to see in His people. He hears, and He heals Miriam.

`Though it’s always easy to be critical of church leadership at any level, how much better would our church and our own spiritual life be if, instead of complaining, we would intercede in behalf of our leaders, even when we disagree with them?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

After Miriam became jealous, she imagined that Aaron and herself had been neglected, and that Moses’ wife was the cause—that she had influenced the mind of her husband—that he did not consult them in important matters as much as formerly.

The Lord heard the words of murmuring against Moses, and he was displeased. . . . And the anger of the Lord was kindled against them, and he departed. And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle, and behold Miriam became leprous, white as snow.” . . . And Moses cried unto the Lord, saying, Heal her now, O God, I beseech thee.” “And Miriam was shut out from the camp seven days; and the people journeyed not till Miriam was brought in again.” . . .

[By] the complaints of Miriam against God’s chosen servant, she not only behaved irreverently to Moses, but toward God himself, who had chosen him. Aaron was drawn into the jealous spirit of his sister Miriam. He might have prevented the evil if he had not sympathized with her, and had presented before her the sinfulness of her conduct. But instead of this, he listened to her words of complaint. The murmurings of Miriam and Aaron are left upon record as a rebuke to all who will yield to jealousy, and complain of those upon whom God lays the burden of his work.—_Spiritual Gifts_, vol. 4a, pp. 20, 21.

We are to direct the weapons of our warfare against our foes, but never to turn them toward those who are under marching orders from the King of Kings, who are fighting manfully the battles of the Lord of lords. Let no one aim at a soldier whom God recognizes, whom God has sent forth to bear a special message to the world and to do a special work.

The soldiers of Christ may not always reveal perfection in their step, but their mistakes should call out from their fellow comrades not words that will weaken, but words that will strengthen, and will help them recover their lost ground. They should not turn the glory of God into dishonor, and give an advantage to the bitterest foes of their King.—_Selected Messages_, book 3, p. 344.

Let not fellow soldiers be severe, unreasonable judges of their comrades, and make the most of every defect. Let them not manifest satanic attributes in becoming accusers of the brethren. We shall find ourselves misrepresented and falsified by the world, while we are maintaining the truth and vindicating God’s downtrodden law; but let no one dishonor the cause of God by making public some mistake that the soldiers of Christ may make, when that mistake is seen and corrected by [the] ones who have taken some false position.

God will charge those who unwisely expose the mistakes of their brethren with sin of far greater magnitude than he will charge the one who makes a misstep. Criticism and condemnation of the brethren are counted as criticism and condemnation of Christ.—_Letter 48_, 1894.