---
title:  Teacher Comments
date:  09/07/2021
---

#### Part I: Overview

This week’s lesson, “Restless and Rebellious,” focuses on the relationship between the sinfulness of our fallen human nature and a lack of inner peace. Restlessness is that nagging discontent with life. Restlessness fights against life’s circumstances when they are not going as expected. Restlessness has tragically failed to accept life on any other terms but its own. It is not satisfied with what it has, and it grasps for more.

This discontent is revealed in Israel’s attitude of rebellion in the wilderness. God had graciously provided them with manna to satisfy their hunger as they wandered in the wilderness on their way to Canaan. Dissatisfied, they complained to Moses, and pleaded for the “flesh pots” of Egypt (Exod. 16:3). Their restlessness and rebellion led them to beg to return to Egypt. Rebellion leads to restlessness, and restlessness leads to further rebellion.

These twins, restlessness and rebellion, are often the result of a lack of faith. In this week’s lesson, we will consider the experience of the 10 spies that searched out the Promised Land. They saw the amazing bounties of the land, recognized it as a land flowing with milk and honey, but did not have the faith to believe that God could defeat their enemies who occupied the land. This lack of faith burst forth in open rebellion. Then as God outlined the consequences of their rebellion, they rushed headlong into battle, contrary to God’s instructions, and suffered a terrible defeat. In this week’s lesson, we also will carefully consider the difference between faith and presumption.

Restlessness and rebellion lead to rash decisions and dire consequences. We also find this in the experience of Aaron and Miriam, who rebelled against God’s authority in the leadership of Moses. Rather than letting these two leaders suffer the full impact of the consequences of their rebellion, Moses interceded for them. God heard his prayers. Intercession makes a powerful difference in the controversy between good and evil.

#### Part II: Commentary

There is a fascinating story about a devout king who was disturbed by the ingratitude of his royal court. He prepared a large banquet for them. When the king and his royal guests were seated, a beggar shuffled into the hall (by prearrangement), sat down at the king’s table, and gorged himself with food. Without saying a word, he then left the room. The guests were furious and asked permission to seize the tramp and tear him limb from limb for his ingratitude. The king replied, “That beggar has done only once to an earthly king what each of you does three times each day to God. You sit there at the table and eat until you are satisfied. Then you walk away without recognizing God or expressing one word of thanks to Him.”

This was precisely Israel’s problem. Ingratitude is at the very heart of this week’s lesson, “Restless and Rebellious.” When we forget what God has done for us in the past, is doing for us in the present, and will do for us in the future, the natural result is discontent. In a remarkable statement, Ellen G. White speaks directly to the problem of forgetting the blessings of God in our lives.

“They forgot their bitter service in Egypt. They forgot the goodness and power of God displayed in their behalf in their deliverance from bondage. They forgot how their children had been spared when the destroying angel slew all the firstborn of Egypt. They forgot the grand exhibition of divine power at the Red Sea. They forgot that while they had crossed safely in the path that had been opened for them, the armies of their enemies, attempting to follow them, had been overwhelmed by the waters of the sea. They saw and felt only their present inconveniences and trials; and instead of saying, ‘God has done great things for us; whereas we were slaves, He is making of us a great nation,’ they talked of the hardness of the way, and wondered when their weary pilgrimage would end.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 293; emphasis supplied.

Ingratitude denotes spiritual immaturity. Have you ever noticed how babies have very short memories? They want their needs to be met immediately. They don’t have a lot of patience. They don’t remember how their parents met their needs yesterday or have the confidence that they will meet them tomorrow. They live for the present. The Israelites were in some ways like immature children. They wanted their needs met immediately and forgot what God had done for them in the past.

Wandering in the barren desert, traversing the burning sands, winding through narrow mountain gorges and crossing the rough hilly terrains, the exhausted, weary Israelites thought only of their immediate needs. They forgot the abundance of God’s blessings. They lacked spiritual maturity. Ingratitude always leads to restlessness. Discontent rises when we are not grateful and is largely caused by a lack of faith. Because Moses had married Zipporah, who was an outsider from Midian, Miriam and Aaron were discontent. They failed to trust God’s guidance. When God supplied manna in the wilderness, many of the Israelites were discontent and wanted to return to Egypt. We become restless when we lose focus. The psalmist David encourages us to “forget not all His benefits” (Ps. 103:2). Keeping God’s goodness prominently in mind brings peace to our hearts. Every day for 40 years in their wilderness wanderings, the Israelites had the opportunity to rejoice in God’s goodness as the manna fell.

**Manna: A Symbol of the Bread of Life**

The falling of the manna in the wilderness was a powerful symbol of God’s constant care. It also was a reminder of the Messiah who was to come to satisfy the Israelites’ spiritual hunger and give them true rest. In the imagery of bread, the Jewish prophets saw a symbol of the coming Messiah who would meet all of Israel’s needs. Isaiah the prophet declared, “ ‘Ho! Everyone who thirsts, come to the waters; and you who have no money, come, buy and eat. . . . Why do you spend money for what is not bread, and your wages for what does not satisfy? Listen carefully to Me, and eat what is good, and let your soul delight itself in abundance’ ” (Isa. 55:1, 2, NKJV). Here bread is obviously a symbol of spiritual food that satisfies the soul. After feeding the 5,000 seated on a hillside in Galilee, in a mira­cle reminiscent of Israel’s being divinely fed by the manna, Jesus declared, “ ‘I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he shall live forever’ ” (John 6:51, NKJV). The manna falling daily in the wilderness to satisfy the physical needs of God’s people had a deeper message. Just as God had satisfied their physical hunger, He would satisfy the hunger of their souls. He longed to give them rest of mind and body as by faith they trusted His provisions to meet their needs. But they failed to appreciate the blessings of heaven, and their restless spirits led them to rebel against God’s plans for their lives.

The account of Israel’s wanderings in the wilderness is a classic story of ingratitude, discontent, and lack of faith. Restlessness, crippling anxiety, and excessive worry are often signs of a lack of faith. There are exceptions. Sometimes, deep-seated emotional distress stems from a physical or mental condition and requires a medical solution. But most often, as in the case of Israel, it is a lack of faith that leads to our restlessness and anxiety.

**Ten Spies: Restlessness and Presumption**

This is certainly true of the spies that Moses sent to spy out the land of Canaan. Their investigative analysis was to be thorough. Israel’s attacking armies must be fully informed. A positive report would spur them on to a courageous conquest. They followed Moses’ instructions carefully. They were faithful at their assignment. They explored the land for 40 days, then returned home. They gave a glowing report. They excitedly told of a land that was rich and fertile with abundant crops. But then with fearful anxiety they told of what they perceived to be giants in the land, impenetrable fortresses, and massive enemy armies. They were restless and lacked the faith to believe God could deliver them. They became so frustrated that they threatened to stone the two spies, Caleb and Joshua, who brought back a positive report about their chances for conquest. Eventually, in one rash act, after God forbade the people to move forward, they rushed into battle and suffered a crushing defeat.

Faith would have led them forward, trusting God for victory. Presumption led them forward, trusting their own abilities to accomplish the task, and they were utterly defeated. Faith trusts God, takes Him at His word, and moves forward to victory. Presumption trusts human impulse, substitutes human feelings and judgments for faith, and moves forward to defeat.

**Moses: Intercession**

One of the major emphases in this week’s lesson is Moses’ intercession for his people. Despite the Israelites’ restless rebellion, Moses did not abandon them. He interceded in their behalf until he had the assurance that God would spare His people and ultimately lead them to the Promised Land. Moses is a type of Christ. Jesus leads us from the bondage of the Egypts of this world, through the wilderness, and on to the Promised Land. He will never abandon us. He will not forsake us when we fail Him. This day He is interceding for you. You are in His mind. You are on His heart. If we let Him, our mighty Intercessor will take us home to live with Him forever.

#### Part III: Life Application

Ellen G. White makes this insightful comment revealing the underlying cause for all discontent and ingratitude: “Do we well to be thus unbelieving? Why should we be ungrateful and distrustful? Jesus is our friend; all heaven is interested in our welfare; and our anxiety and fear grieve the Holy Spirit of God. We should not indulge in a solicitude that only frets and wears us but does not help us to bear trials. No place should be given to that distrust of God which leads us to make a preparation against future want the chief pursuit of life, as though our happiness consisted in these earthly things. It is not the will of God that His people should be weighed down with care.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 294. The apostle Peter invites us to cast “all your care upon Him, for He cares for you” (1 Pet. 5:7, NKJV).

How do we learn truly to trust in God and His promises other than acting by faith on those promises? Share examples of your experiences doing just that, acting on God’s promises.