---
title:  Decide to Choose
date:  06/04/2019
---

**Introduction**: 2 Tim. 3:16

According to the butterfly effect, one small local decision has the potential to alter outcomes elsewhere. This emphasizes the influence of our choices and the impact that they carry. When we’re younger, our decisions tend not to be well thought out because children do not often think long-term. However, as we grow older, we tend to fear spontaneity and opt to plan every step of our lives. Take the example of picking an outfit. As children, if we could help it, we’d wear our Superman costume or princess dress every day. But as adults, when picking an outfit we factor in the weather outside, anticipated activities, and whether we’ll be mostly indoors or outside.

Hitler’s choice to invade Poland resulted in death and destruction and the start of a world war—one choice that had severe repercussions. Eve’s decision to yield to Satan’s temptation and persuade Adam to do likewise birthed the downfall of all humanity. The suffering of the entire world could have been averted if she had made the choice to obey God. Each of us is afraid of making the wrong decision. But how much easier would making the right choices be if we would just lay them at the feet of Jesus?

As Christians, we understand the Word of God as our guideline for life on Earth. We may know the difference between what He wants for us and what He warns us against, but still we find ourselves at a crossroads. We battle with following the path God set out for us because we consciously make decisions that separate us from Him. We cannot do as we please and then ask God to help us only when a great dilemma comes our way. If we do this, we’ll never be able to discern the voice of God from that of the one trying to distract us. Every day, every choice should be made with the counsel of Jesus. We should be building a tolerance against the temptations of the enemy.

Regardless of any wrong decisions that we have made in our lives, Jesus made the choice to die on a cross for us. He ensures there is and will be forgiveness for all the mistakes we have made and are sure to make in the future. Each time we hurt Him and let Him down, He still does not eliminate the opportunities He gives us to repent. He has blessed us with Scriptures that will teach us to make the right choices that He wants for us (2 Tim. 3:16).

---

_Kerzia Naidoo, KwaZulu Natal, South Africa_