---
title:  One Does Not Simply Choose
date:  07/04/2019
---

**Evidence**: Prov. 13:20; Isa. 55:2

All around us, we see the product of choices. Choice of food, words, friends—the saying is true, “Show me your friends, and I will show you your future.” As the Bible puts it, “He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of fools shall be destroyed” (Prov. 13:20). That’s how great the impact our choice of friends has on our future. Moses understood this and chose to suffer with God’s people rather than enjoy the pleasures of sin. Thus, Moses was instrumental in God’s plan and is found in the hall of faith (Hebrews 11). When it comes to food, we can learn from Daniel, who chose not to defile himself with King Nebuchadnezzar’s food and wine. It’s worse in this era. Most of the diseases, obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and osteoporosis are due to unhealthy food choices. If we choose to eat what is good as the Lord instructs us (cf. Isa. 55:2), we will indeed prosper in health.

The prophet Jeremiah says, “When your words came, I ate them; they were my joy and my heart’s delight” (Jer. 15:16, NIV). The Hebrew term meaning “to eat” is akhal, which can also be translated as “to devour, consume, feast.” The prophet did not just nibble but indulged on the Word of God, and for him it was joy and his heart’s delight. Indulging in the Word of God is something that we can never overdo.

Good choices seem costly and difficult to make. And they are. Sometimes you think hard and long only to eventually make a bad choice. James 1:5 says, “If any of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to you” (NIV). King Solomon asked God for wisdom, and it was granted to him. He managed to accomplish much as king of Israel but also chose to indulge his lust, only to find that it was all meaningless (Eccles. 2:1–11).

When God gives us wisdom, we must be consistent with what He has plainly taught us in His Word and must continue in a pattern of making good choices. One bad choice can bring to ruin a long life of good choices. The opposite is also true; if you have been making one bad choice after another, with one choice to truly change today, you can live with purpose.

**React**

`1. What do you do when you realize you have made a bad choice?`

`2. How can you make good choices consistently?`

---

_Blessed Chakauya, KwaZulu Natal, South Africa_