---
title:  Build a Fortress,Not a Sandcastle
date:  09/04/2019
---

**Testimony**: Matt. 7:24, 25

Building on a solid foundation is not a foreign concept to Christians because we strive to build our spiritual lives on Christ, our solid Rock. This translates to ensuring that the basis on which we make our choices is strong because every other decision we take from that point onward stems from the previous decision.

Take the example of finding a career path. First, we determine which university to attend. That decision forms a foundation to stand on. Building on this foundation includes selecting a course of study and discovering the people we wish to associate with on campus. Our environment now depends on that initial decision—the foundation—because we cannot study what the university does not offer, nor can we be classmates with those who are not enrolled.

Every aspect of our lives is a plot where we are about to break ground. We experience different phases in these areas in which we are required to make initial decisions; it is here that we begin to lay a foundation. After this point, each choice we make is another brick we add to this foundation as we try to build a life for ourselves.

“A chain is no stronger than is its weakest link. We might pronounce such a chain good on the whole, but if one link is weak the chain cannot be depended on.”1 A weak link in a chain is the measure of the chain’s strength. Similarly, a weak foundation cannot house a solid structure. How then can we, weak and lowly, expect to make decisions that will influence our lives without the input of Him who knows the end from the beginning?

The choices we make impact our lives in one way or another. By looking to Jesus for guidance, by realizing that He is very much concerned about each choice that we make, we have a greater possibility of making the correct decisions and developing a character like that of the Son of Man.

**React**

`1. Find an example of a biblical character who heeded God’s counsel in his or her decisions and an example of someone who did not. What are the differences in their outcomes?`

`2. Jesus made the choice to die for us knowing that not all would accept Him. How should we handle decisions where we may not see a positive outcome for everyone, ourselves included`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Messages to Young People, p. 91.</sup>

_Kemika Naidoo, KwaZulu Natal, South Africa_