---
title:  The Greatest Choice
date:  10/04/2019
---

**How-to**: Judg. 16; Prov. 12:26; 17:17; Eccles. 2:1–11; James 1:5–8

The greatest choice we can ever make is the choice to follow Jesus to develop our relationship with Him. Through prayer and through studying His Word, we see that He has great plans for us (Jer. 29:11), plans to bless us to have life more abundantly (John 10:10). A part of His plan for us is to bless us with relationships with our fellow humans as well. Friendship and marriage are blessings from God because He created us to be social beings. It should be no surprise, then, that the people we choose as friends and the person we choose as a life partner are also things He cares about.

When we read about David and Jonathan, and Paul and Silas, we are reminded that friends can be a great source of strength and comfort (Prov. 17:17). However, the opposite is also true. We are warned by Solomon in Proverbs 12:26 that we are to choose our friends very carefully because their influence can lead us astray. It is true that birds of a feather flock together, and the company we keep becomes a reflection of who we are.

Have you ever noticed the ever-rocketing divorce rates in our world today? Perhaps people are not putting careful thought into this choice of whom to marry. As you read Genesis 24 and understand why Abraham went to such painstaking lengths to ensure the right person was selected as a wife for Isaac, you begin to understand why God is concerned about this choice in our lives as well. God knows the end from the beginning, and He knows that certain people can serve as catalysts to bring us closer to Him while others can pull us further away, so who better to ask when making these decisions than God?

We can find comfort in the fact that God wants to bless us with wisdom to make these decisions. James 1:5–8 reminds us that all we need do is ask. We don’t have to feel scared or confused or burdened by impending choices. Wisdom is learning from the mistakes of others, so we should pay attention to the advice of older, seasoned Christians because often their advice comes from experience. Ecclesiastes 2:1–11 shows us, in no uncertain terms, how selfishly pleasing the desires of our flesh will leave us still feeling unfulfilled. We stand in front of two roads, and the choice we make today will determine who we are tomorrow.

**React**

`Evaluate the emotions you feel before making a decision. Do you feel confidence in God, or do you feel fear?`

---

_Anastashia Piyarilal, KwaZulu Natal, South Africa_