---
title:  Choosing Right
date:  11/04/2019
---

**Opinion**: Phil. 4:6; James 1:5

It is not easy being a young person in this mixed-up world. Temptations and challenges are tremendous. It sometimes seems as though our faith is not strong enough to handle daily stresses, and we despair for want of courage, guidance, and endurance.

We have been drilled on how extremely important our choices are. Our future is determined by the choices we make in our youth. We have a myriad of decisions to make, and each one leads to a different outcome. We feel pressured in our tasks, but then again, we have been pressured since we made the choice to allow Jesus to be King of our lives.

We have seen many of our youth move away from God and eventually leave the church when the pressures of youth become overwhelming. Many slip away easily when faced with worldly options and embrace the value system of the world.

In this world of shifting sand, it is important to stick with people who will add value to our lives. Our greatest insecurity should be that of making big decisions which will lead us away from Christ and the mission He has entrusted to us. Each decision we make can take us either closer or further away from our goal to grow in Christ. It all depends on whether we allow Him to be at the center of our lives. Some choices are no-brainers; however, that shouldn’t stop us from asking for God’s guidance.

God does not make impulsive decisions, and neither should we. Patience is key. Career and life partner choices are not the only ones that can be considered tough; real tough choices can includee whether to remain friends with someone who goes against our morals and values.

The best part about being a child of God is that we are never alone. One of my favorite scriptures, Philippians 4:6, reads, “Don’t worry about anything; instead, pray about everything” (NLT). This scripture gives hope and has seen me through character-breaking challenges in my life. Making the right choice isn’t always easy, but take courage, my friend; we serve an all-knowing God who is willing to advise us whenever we are faced with a “toughie” (James 1:5). Faith is scary, but when the going gets tough, the tough hold on to Jesus.

**React**

`We serve a God who knows our future, yet we seek advice from earthly professionals before we seek His.`

---

_Liscka Nirell Govender, KwaZulu Natal, South Africa_