---
title:  Choose This Day
date:  12/04/2019
---

**Exploration**: Josh. 24:14, 15; 1 Kings 18:21

**Conclude**

Job, Daniel, and Stephen all have one thing in common: they chose to follow God. Life wasn’t always easy, though. They faced many trials along the way, but their faith never wavered. When trials come, we cannot falter between two opinions. There is no grey area. There are only two options for us to choose from: one is the Way, the Truth, and the Life, while the other is the path that leads to destruction. The question remains to us as it did to them. Do we choose to stay faithful with eternity in mind or to pursue the fleeting pleasures of this world?

**Consider**

- Writing down the points you consider before deciding anything. Do you seek God’s opinion? Would He approve of your choice?
- Evaluating future decisions by asking whether the choice you’re making is worth eternity.
- Reflecting on your past and the decisions you made. Think about WWJD (What would Jesus do?).
- Thinking about Ellen White’s statement that “we should choose the right because it is right and leave the consequences with God.”1 While we know our decisions have consequences, how do we ensure that we look at this in a positive light?
- Writing out a prayer young people can use when faced with making tough decisions.
- Thinking about the hymn “All to Jesus I Surrender” and the hymn “Live Out Thy Life Within Me.” How can we truly surrender to Jesus without holding back even an iota of ourselves?


**Connect**

Genesis 13:5–18; Matthew 6:33; 7:13.

Ellen G. White, Christ Triumphant, p. 13; Steps to Christ, chap. 5

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 460.</sup>

_Kimberley Govender, KwaZulu Natal, South Africa_