---
title:  Salvation In Jesus
date:  18/11/2018
---

Although as Seventh-day Adventists we have much in common with other Christian bodies, our set of beliefs form a unique system of biblical truth that no one else in the Christian world is proclaiming. These truths help define us as God’s end-time remnant.

`Read Acts 4:8-12, 10:43. What importance does Peter give to the place of Jesus Christ in his understanding of the plan of salvation?`

The apostle Paul told the Corinthians that the good news is “that God was in Christ reconciling the world to Himself ” (2 Cor. 5:19, NKJV). Christ’s death is the means of our reconciliation with the Father, bridging the chasm left by sin and death. For centuries, Christians have pondered the meaning of Jesus’ death, resurrection, and the reconciliation He came to accomplish. This process of reconciliation has been termed atonement, an old English word that originally meant “at-onement.” This is a state of being “at one,” or in agreement. Accordingly, atonement denotes harmony in a relationship, and when there has been estrangement, this harmony would be the result of reconciliation. Church unity is thus a gift of this reconciliation.

**What do the following passages teach about the meaning of Jesus’ death and resurrection?**

`Rom. 3:24, 25`

`1 John 2:2`

`1 John 4:9, 10`

`1 Pet. 2:21-24`

Though we hold this belief in Christ’s death and resurrection in common with many other Christian bodies, we proclaim it in the context of the “everlasting gospel” (Rev. 14:6), part of the three angels’ messages of Revelation 14:6-12. As Seventh-day Adventists, we place an emphasis on these messages that no other Christian body does.

`How can you learn to keep before you at all times the reality of Christ’s death and resurrection and the hope that it offers?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ came to this world to show us what God can do and what we can do in cooperation with God. In human flesh He went into the wilderness to be tempted by the enemy. He knows what it is to hunger and thirst. He knows the weakness and the infirmities of the flesh. He was tempted in all points like as we are tempted.

Our ransom has been paid by our Saviour. No one need be enslaved by Satan. Christ stands before us as our divine example, our all-powerful Helper. We have been bought with a price that it is impossible to compute. Who can measure the goodness and mercy of redeeming love.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 6, p. 1074.

He who would become a child of God must receive the truth that repentance and forgiveness are to be obtained through nothing less than the atonement of Christ. Assured of this the sinner must put forth an effort in harmony with the work done for him, and with unwearied entreaty he must supplicate the throne of grace, that the renovating power of God may come into his soul. Christ pardons none but the penitent, but whom He pardons He first makes penitent. The provision made is complete, and the eternal righteousness of Christ is placed to the account of every believing soul.—_Selected Messages_, bk. 1, pp. 393, 394.

We are now upon the field of conflict. . . . 

Let the Word of God be our study. . . . 

To as many as believe in Him, Christ gives power to become the sons of God. Those who are thus denominated as members of the royal family will live for Him who is the propitiation for their sins. As they follow on to know the truth, their feet are planted on the sure foundation. Neither flood nor storm can sweep away their foundation.—_This Day With God_, p. 265.

Christ, our Saviour, in whom dwelt absolute perfection, became sin for the fallen race. He did not know sin by the experience of sinning, but He bore the terrible weight of the guilt of the whole world. He became our propitiation, that all who receive Him may become sons of God. The cross was erected to save man. Christ lifted on the cross was the means devised in heaven for awakening in the repenting soul a sense of the sinfulness of sin. By the cross Christ sought to draw all to Himself. He died as the only hope of saving those who, because of sin, were in the gall of bitterness. Through the agency of the Holy Spirit, a new principle of mental and spiritual power was to be brought to man, who, through association with divinity, was to become one with God.—_The Upward Look_, p. 191.

What a theme for meditation is the sacrifice that Jesus made for lost sinners! . . . How shall we estimate the blessings thus brought within our reach? Could Jesus have suffered more? . . . Should it not melt the hardest heart when we remember that for our sakes He left the happiness and glory of heaven and suffered poverty and shame, cruel affliction and a terrible death? . . . We cannot measure how much deeper our afflictions would have been, how much greater our woes, had not Jesus encircled us with His human arm of sympathy and love, and lifted us up.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 5, p. 316.