---
title:  Paul, a God-called Apostle of Jesus
date:  28/06/2026
---

Paul begins his letter to the Corinthians by identifying himself as an apostle of Jesus, called “through the will of God” (1 Cor. 1:1; compare with 2 Cor. 1:1). His conviction regarding who he is in relation to Jesus is so firm that, with a few exceptions, this is the way he opens all his letters.

`Read 1 Corinthians 1:1 and Romans 1:1. What two elements of Paul’s ministry are emphasized in these passages? (See also Gal. 1:1.)`

Paul speaks of his calling and apostleship as fulfilling God’s will. He is convinced that his calling is not from men but from God (Gal. 1:1). Paul was called by God from his mother’s womb like Jeremiah (Jer. 1:5) as an act of God’s grace (Gal. 1:15), and it happened so that he would proclaim the gospel of Christ among the Gentiles.

In 1 Corinthians 15:8, Paul includes himself among those to whom Christ appeared after the Resurrection (1 Cor. 15:5–7). A few verses later, he implies that his calling to be an apostle resulted from that encounter with Jesus (1 Cor. 15:9–11).

The title “apostle of Jesus” encompasses a series of concepts. Primarily, it conveys the idea of one whom Jesus sends. Nevertheless, Paul also uses this phrase to identify himself as a servant of Christ (Rom. 1:1, Titus 1:1, Gal. 1:10), as well as a preacher and a teacher (1 Tim. 2:7, 2 Tim. 1:11). Whether Paul preaches or teaches, Christ is always in evidence. In short, Paul is an apostle of Jesus.

Jesus is not only the center of Paul’s apostleship; He is the center of Paul’s life. Paul’s thoughts and feelings were filled with the presence of Jesus. Evidence of this fact is that he refers to Jesus repeatedly in the opening and in the thanksgiving section of 1 Corinthians (nine times in nine verses). Paul loved Jesus so much that he couldn’t stop thinking and talking about Him. He wanted to share Jesus with those under his care so that their lives would be Christ-centered, too. While he was called to be an apostle, they were called to be faithful followers of Jesus in whatever capacity to which the Lord called them.

`Paul was called to be an apostle. What is your calling, and how do you know that it is your calling? If you don’t think you have one, why not go right now and ask Him to show you the work He chose you to do?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The solemn charge that had been given Paul on the occasion of his interview with Ananias rested with increasing weight upon his heart. When, in response to the invitation “Brother Saul, receive thy sight,” Paul had for the first time looked upon the face of this devout man, Ananias under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit said to him: “The God of our fathers hath chosen thee, that thou shouldest know his will, and see that Just One, and shouldest hear the voice of his mouth. For thou shalt be his witness unto all men of what thou hast seen and heard. And now why tarriest thou? arise, and be baptized, and wash away thy sins, calling on the name of the Lord” (Acts 22:13–16).\
These words were in harmony with the words of Jesus Himself, who, when He arrested Saul on the journey to Damascus, declared: “I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee; delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom I now send thee, to open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me” (Acts 26:16–18).\
As he pondered these things in his heart, Paul understood more and more the meaning of his call to be “an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God” (Ephesians 1:1). His call had come “not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father” (Galatians 1:1). The greatness of the work before him led him to give much study to the Holy Scriptures, in order that he might preach the gospel “not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect” (1 Corinthians 1:17), “but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,” that the faith of all who heard “should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God” (1 Corinthians 2:4, 5).—Ye Shall Receive Power, p. 279.

In the records of those who have done and suffered for the name of Jesus, there is no name that shines with a brighter or purer luster than the name of Paul, the apostle to the Gentiles. The love of Jesus, glowing in his heart, made him self-forgetful, self-denying. He had seen the risen Christ, and the Saviour’s image was impressed upon his soul, and shone forth in his life. With faith, courage, and fortitude, that would not be daunted by danger or stayed by obstacles, he pressed his way from land to land to spread the knowledge of the cross.—Our Father Cares, p. 122.