---
title:  Further Thought
date:  03/07/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Corinth,” pp. 243–254, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“In preaching the gospel in Corinth, the apostle followed a course different from that which had marked his labors at Athens. . . . He determined to avoid elaborate arguments and discussions, and ‘not to know anything’ among the Corinthians ‘save Jesus Christ, and Him crucified.’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 244.

“Paul had a measure of success,” but he “doubted the wisdom of building up a church from the material he found there. He considered Corinth a very questionable field of labor, and determined to leave it. . . .

“As he was contemplating leaving the city for a more promising field, . . . the Lord appeared to him in a vision of the night, and said, ‘Be not afraid, but speak, . . . for I have much people in this city.’ Paul understood this to be a command to remain in Corinth, and a guarantee that the Lord would give increase to the seed sown. . . . A large church was enrolled under the banner of Jesus Christ.”—Ellen G. White, Sketches From the Life of Paul, pp. 106, 107.

“It is recorded that Paul labored a year and six months in Corinth. His efforts, however, were not exclusively confined to that city. . . . He made Corinth his headquarters. . . . Several churches were thus raised up. . . . The absence of Paul from the churches of his care was partially supplied by communications weighty and powerful, which were received generally as the word of God. . . . These epistles were read in the churches.”—Ellen G. White, Sketches From the Life of Paul, p. 109.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Paul was convinced that he was an apostle of Jesus and that this calling was from God. Why is it so important to know who we are and what our call is?`

`For a moment, Paul felt like giving up his missionary work in Corinth and leaving the city. What caused him to change his mind? How can this help us when we feel like giving up a missionary project? Might there be, though, a time we should?`

`The church members in Corinth were significantly influenced by the surrounding culture. This is also a stark reality among us today. How can we be in the world (John 17:11, 15) and not be influenced by what “is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride of life” (1 John 2:16, ESV)? What are other ways that our church is being influenced negatively by the surrounding culture?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God’s Amazing Grace, “More Than Conquerors,” September 29, p. 280.\
Lift Him Up, “The Plan of Redemption a Gift,” September 21, p. 278.\