---
title:  The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe like Revelation?
date:  29/12/2018
---

**Introduction**: Rev. 1:1

In 2005 the blockbuster movie The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, based on the children’s series by C. S. Lewis, was released worldwide with an interesting public relations dilemma. The titular Lion was originally marketed widely among Christian communities as a representation of Jesus, but when they tried to reach the wider audience, they backed off the religious analogy that C. S. Lewis was making. The Lion is an allusion to Jesus; at the allegory’s climax he lays down his life to save Edmund, the betrayer, and to undo the ever-winter curse cast on Narnia by the witch.

Revelation was similarly written with analogies clearly intended for the church. It has been dubbed the most mysterious book of the Bible. Varying interpretations have been made and dispensed by differing faiths, causing quite a bit of confusion in the Christian community. Some churches have chosen to ignore this important book entirely because they find it too mysterious and difficult to understand.

In order to understand Revelation and its various symbols, one needs to have a good knowledge of the other sixty-five books of the Bible. Only in the context of Scripture can we get an accurate rendering of the symbolism in Revelation. Remember that John wrote this book for the church, people already schooled in the basic teachings of the Bible.

Can Revelation be understood? Yes! Study with a willingness to dig deeper into Scripture, and God’s truth will be revealed to you in the book of Revelation. “Those who desire light must search the Scriptures, comparing scripture with scripture and pleading with God for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. The promise is that those who seek shall find.”1 And Jesus promised, in the Beatitudes, that those who hunger and thirst after righteousness will be filled. May you be filled as your eyes are opened to the mysteries of Revelation by diligent study and the guidance of the Holy Spirit, who will guide you into all truth.

---

_1. Ellen G. White, “Sanctify Them Through Thy Truth,” The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, July 6, 1911._