---
title:  “Sealed Book”?
date:  31/12/2018
---

**Testimony**: Rev. 1:1–3

“Many have entertained the idea that the book of Revelation is a sealed book, and they will not devote time and study to its mysteries. They say that they are to keep looking to the glories of salvation, and that the mysteries revealed to John on the Isle of Patmos are worthy of less consideration than these.

“But God does not so regard this book. He declares: ‘I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book: and if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book. He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly’ [Rev. 22:18–20].

“The book of Revelation opens to the world what has been, what is, and what is to come; it is for our instruction upon whom the ends of the world are come. It should be studied with reverential awe. We are privileged in knowing what is for our learning. But do we treat the word of God with the reverence which is his due, and with the gratitude which God would be pleased to see? ‘All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness: that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works’ [2 Tim. 3:16].

“The Lord Himself revealed to His servant John the mysteries of the book of Revelation, and he designs that they shall be open to the study of all. In this book are depicted scenes that are now in the past, and some of eternal interest that are taking place around us; other of its prophecies will not receive their complete fulfillment until the close of time, when the last great conflict between the powers of darkness and the Prince of heaven will take place.”1

**React**

`1. In the contemporary world that we live in, what can you do to study and share the book of Revelation in an innovative way?`

`2. How are we blessed when we hear and read the words of prophecy?`

`3. If we are counseled on the importance of studying the book of Revelation, why do we see so little understanding of this book today?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, “What the Revelation Means to Us,” Review and Herald, August 31, 1897.</sup>

_Dawn Forde Murphy, Weirsdale, Florida, USA_