---
title:  Vision From the Volcano
date:  01/01/2019
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 1:3

The rocky landscape of Patmos, a volcanic island off the coast of modernday western Turkey, would experience its mightiest eruption in the form of a supernatural delivery of a message from the Son of God. In the Aegean Sea, on one of the northernmost islands of the Dodecanese (literally meaning “twelve islands”), the disciple at the heart of Jesus’ inner circle was in exile because of his unwavering commitment to the Lord. At the time, John was a figurative island on a literal island, separated from the other eleven apostles because he was the sole survivor.

Most historians believe Revelation was written in a.d. 95, near the end of Emperor Domitian’s rule. Unlike the emperors of his time who waited until after death to be hailed as gods, Domitian wanted his worship while he was alive. While championing an effort to get Christians to renounce their faith, he came face to face with a bulwark who refused to bow down. John had walked with Jesus and wouldn’t deny Him to elevate an earthly emperor’s ego.

Roman historian Tacitus mentioned a Roman policy of exiling political prisoners to the small islands. At the time of banishment to Patmos, John was a very senior citizen, which would have made the terrain of this location difficult to navigate. Yet he knew God would see him through the trials (Rev. 1:9).

At the base of the mountain on Patmos John was separated from the familiar. However, halfway up the mountain lies the Cave of the Apocalypse, where it is believed that John resided when he received the visions. Today, it is a World Heritage site.

Fellow believers suffering persecution deeply desired hope, and Jesus would not fail to deliver a sure word. In fact, Revelation 1:3 gave immediate encouragement to John, who was enduring exile because he read, heard, and kept the Word of God. Verse three additionally initiates the first promise in a series of seven blessings, or “beatitudes,” occurring throughout Revelation.

In the book of Luke, the blind man desperately wanted his vision restored. Through the book of Revelation, Jesus maximized that singular opportunity to restore sight to invite the entire world to heed spiritually eye-opening instruction that would lead to permanent restoration to Him and the Father.

**React**

`1. What are some ways to decode biblical symbols?`

`2. Should any of Revelation’s language be taken literally?`

`3. Is Revelation’s mysterious message still relevant for Christians today?`

---

_Tamra Clarke, Weirsdale, Florida, USA_