---
title:  Is Your Heart Ready?
date:  02/01/2019
---

**How-to**: John 14:1–3; Rev. 1:1, 2; 22:16

From the beginning, God has had a plan of salvation for us all. His Word does not return void, neither is He slack in His promises (Isa. 55:11; 2 Pet. 3:9). John 14:1–3 presents Jesus’ promise to return and take us to a prepared place where we will live with Him forever. This is in stark contrast to the state of the earth now, a place that has lost its color, vibrancy, and life. Just as in climates where trees with green leaves lose their chlorophyll, change color, and fall, sin has caused us to do the same.

Only plants that are rooted and grounded in good soil are able to thrive against strong winds, rain, or other severe weather. In this same way, as Christians we must be rooted and grounded in Christ. He is the only thing that can keep us strong in times of trouble.

A little pruning is good for our “branches.” Thinning out the thick leaves of a tree can help increase air and sunlight, which results in increased plant health. We must be willing to open our hearts completely to Christ, thereby letting Him remove our sin and those elements that block His light to our lives. God gave John the revelation and the words of Jesus Christ. Those words, when applied to our lives, work to cut out those parts of our lives that keep us resistant to Him (Heb. 4:12). His pruning is a necessary component to our spiritual growth. Jesus admonishes us to follow His example and have love for humankind but not to take on or love the things of this world (1 John 2:15–17). Pruning helps us remove those things while keeping us bound to Christ.

Daily sunlight and water allow the process of photosynthesis to occur, which feeds the plant and allows it to thrive in all its beauty. Our daily sunlight and water are the things that we let into our hearts. Jesus cautions us not to let our hearts be troubled (John 14:1). If we pour in prayer and Bible study, then we will have peace and bear good fruit that testifies of Christ and is a witness to others.

**React**

`1. Revelation 22:16 says that Jesus is the “bright and morning star.” How can you let His Word penetrate the dense canopy of your life and shine through? Reflect upon what needs to be removed so that He can come in and give you His peace.`

`2. We know that God is preparing a place for us. Will you be ready to go?`

---

_Opal Leighvard, Orlando, Florida, USA_