---
title:  Is It Real?
date:  03/01/2019
---

**Opinion**: John 14:1–3, 29;2 Pet. 3:4

We often hear the words we are living in the end times, but some of us struggle to understand the concept of these words. Some may even argue that history is repeating itself or that it didn’t end then, why will it end now? In 2 Peter 3:4 we see mockers and scorners say, “ ‘Where is this “coming” he promised? Ever since our ancestors died, everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation’ ” (NIV).

What makes this time any different? Well, the difference lies in the fact that the book of Revelation is a gift that God promises to those who read, hear, and obey (see Rev. 1:3). The ultimate gift is Jesus Christ, on whom all prophecy centers. Here, history is exclusively revealed to His people, enabling us to understand the past, acknowledge the present, and prepare for the future. Jesus prophesied many times in the Bible, but one instance that caught my attention is that of Him comforting His disciples before His crucifixion. He reassures them, telling them not to worry because He will return to take us home, to a place He will prepare for us. Further, He informs them—and us—“ ‘before it happens, so that when it does happen you will believe’ ” (John 14:1–3, 29, NIV). This statement illustrates the significance of prophecy. God did not give the gift of prophecy to satisfy our curiosity about the future but to solidify our faith in Him so that when it does come to pass, we shall believe.

Revelation further allows us to exercise our faith through His servant John, by whom we are warned of the end times and given hope for our future. Prophecy informs us of the trials, tribulations, and persecutions to come, through the letters written to the seven churches and the three angels’ messages. The book also reveals to us that a new earth will be created as a reward for those who persevere. Christ wants each and every one of us to be saved. He doesn’t want us to be in darkness or to be deceived. This was His mission while on earth. Therefore, He grants us the opportunity to be aware of the future so that when it happens, not only will we believe, but we will be ready.

**React**

`1. If you were able to have a vision of your week, would you be better equipped to face the challenges ahead?`

`2. Are you among the mockers and scorners? If you are, what can you do to change that?`

---

_Ugochi Nkoronye, Orlando, Florida, USA_