---
title:  One Set of Footprints
date:  04/01/2019
---

**Exploration**: Revelation 1–3

**Conclude**

It was a critical time for the church, and most of John’s followers had already suffered martyrdom. John was exiled, presumably in an effort to silence him. All appeared to be lost, but the Lord Himself was in control. John was given a vision of the conditions of the church; the problems they would endure; and insight of God’s authority, power, and love at each period. He who preserved the early witnesses continued to sustain those who keep the faith, for we will encounter the same suffering (Rev. 2:10). Now we can look back in hindsight at the words of this prophecy (Rev. 1:3). Do we have enough evidence to determine whether Christ is able to meet our every need? Yes. There is no situation where He has not made sufficient provision to help us.

**Consider**

- Applying daily affirmations that will remind you that no matter what you face, of yourself you can do nothing, but with Christ you can do everything!

- Getting charged through prayer and staying connected by reading, listening to, or watching related media or text. Like. Share. Subscribe to any additional sources that you find relevant and encouraging.

- Starting a daily blog or other type of media that speaks to the blessings in store for those who overcome, for instance, a new name, unlocked doors that no human can shut. Collaborate and share the message with others.

- Meditating on the goodness of God in your test of endurance. Encourage others along the way. Think: When I’m going through my test, I know I will have a testimony in the end. Listen to or read the words of a song that inspires you to hold fast.

- Prayerfully reading to understand and analyze prophecy. Note the things that surprise you or key details that you need to remember. What are some things you still don’t understand? Get clarity. Don’t give up.

- Journaling all experiences in which our all-sufficient God took care of you. Compare and contrast your growth out of the experiences. What do you need to start, stop, or save?

**Connect**

Ezekiel 33:13; Matthew 18:21–35; 24:13; Luke 8:12, 13; 12:42–46; John 15:1–6; Colossians 3:4; Hebrews 10:38; Revelation 3:5.

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chap. 57, “The Revelation.” Joe Crews, Can a Saved Man Choose to Be Lost? (Amazing Facts, 2013).

Doug Batchelor, Compromise, Conformity and Courage (Amazing Facts, 2007).

---

_Althea Dixon, Orlando, Florida, USA_