---
title:  God Always Helps in Times of Trouble
date:   25/05/2025
---

`Read Psalm 46. What message of hope does this psalm give us now and for the future during the end times?`

Psalm 46 talks about a topic we read about in the book of Hebrews: the idea of something better. Jesus is a better high priest than the top religious leader on earth. Jesus’ death is better than all the animal offerings. The temple in heaven is better than the temple on earth.

Psalm 46 doesn’t talk about good things and compare them with better things. The writer of the poem compares life on this sin-filled earth with the promise of the better things God plans for us.

Psalm 46 is filled with hope and promise. When we suffer because of hard times or wars, “God says, ‘Stop fighting and know that I am God!’ ” (Psalm 46:10, ERV). God wants us to have faith that someday all this evil will end. Then God “will be honored in the earth” (Psalm 46:10, NLV).

Notice, too, what else the writer of Psalm 46 says: “So we will not be afraid if the earth shakes, or if the mountains fall into the sea” (Psalm 46:2, ICB).

This verse helps us think about what will happen at the Second Coming: “The sky was split in the middle and both sides rolled up like a scroll [rolled up piece of paper]. And every mountain and island was moved from its place” (Revelation 6:14, ERV). Also, “You should look for the day of God to come. You should do what you can to make it come soon. At that time the heavens will be destroyed by fire. And the sun and moon and stars will melt away with much heat” (2 Peter 3:12, NLV). This life, with all of its evils, isn’t going to continue forever. What comes after this earth ends promises to be something that we can’t make a picture of in our minds. For now, we need to hold on with faith to the understanding about God that we have. We must believe in Jesus and everything He did for us on the cross.

`Sometimes, things may be very bad on this earth. (We know they are going to get worse.) What hope does the Cross give you when you suffer during the hard times in life?`