---
title:  Hope During Hard Times
date:   26/05/2025
---

Much of the writing in the book of Psalms uses word pictures and symbols. But when the book of Psalms talks about how God will make the earth new, we know this promise is not a word picture or symbol. The promise of a new earth is real. Psalm 46 helps us remember that the Second Coming will change this earth. More than the rocks and the sea will change. The history of this earth will end with the total breakdown of the kingdoms on this earth. These human governments have caused many people to suffer over the thousands of years of human history.

In the end, all these kingdoms and the suffering and evil they caused people will come to a complete end.

`Read Jeremiah 4:23–26. What do these verses tell us about what will happen to this earth, at least until Jesus makes a new earth and skies (Revelation 21:1)?`

The Bible shows us what will happen to this earth. Daniel’s dream in Daniel chapter 7 shows us a stormy sea. The nations or people groups on this earth come from this sea. The winds of war blow across the Gentile or non-Jewish sea (a symbol for the people on the earth). One kingdom after another kingdom comes up from the sea. Not one of these kingdoms can solve the very real problems that cause human suffering. The leaders of these kingdoms always disappoint us. The leaders are as selfish and filled with sin as the rest of us.

In his dream, Daniel sees many kingdoms on this earth. None of these kingdoms is a safe home for God’s people. But we have hope in the promise that we are citizens of God’s kingdom (Philippians 3:20). God on His throne is more powerful than the leaders of any kingdom on earth. Jesus told us that things on this earth will become more and more evil before He comes back (Matthew 24). But we can trust that God hasn’t lost control. God will keep His promises: “Nations will shake with fear and kingdoms will fall when God shouts and makes the earth move. The Lord All-Powerful is with us. The God of Jacob is our place of safety” (Psalm 46:6, 7, ERV).

`Life on our earth looks out of control. How should the dream in Daniel 7 give us hope that God will work things out if we trust in Him?`