---
title:  Under His Feet
date:   27/05/2025
---

`Read Psalm 47:1–4. What do these verses tell us about God’s kingdom?`

In the end, our future is filled with hope. Until then, life is filled with suffering because we gave the control over our planet to Lucifer. When Satan showed up at the meeting hall in heaven, he bragged to God that the earth belonged to him. “The Lord said to Satan, ‘Where have you come from?’ Satan answered, ‘From traveling all around the earth. I’ve been going from one end of it to the other [end]’ ” (Job 1:7, NIrV).

What was Satan really planning? He was announcing that the earth belonged to him. In Old Testament times, the foot was used to show that someone owned something. That’s why God told Abraham, “ ‘Go! Walk through the land. See how long and wide it is. I am giving it to you’ ” (Genesis 13:17, NIrV.

`Compare 1 Thessalonians 4:13–17 and Zechariah 14:4. How are these two sets of verses different? What do these verses teach us about these two different but connected parts of Jesus’ control over this earth?`

Ellen G. White talks about what Jesus will do at the end of the Thousand Years: “Jesus comes down on the Mount of Olives. Jesus was lifted up from this same place when He went back to heaven after He woke up from the dead. On this same spot, angels told Jesus’ followers that He would come back again. God’s special messenger Zechariah says, ‘Then the Lord my God will come. And all the holy ones will be with him. On that day he will stand on the Mount of Olives, east of Jerusalem. The Mount of Olives will split in two. . . . Then the Lord will be king over the whole world. At that time there will be only one Lord. And his name will be the only name.’ Zechariah 14:5, 4, 9, ICB. The New Jerusalem will come down to the earth from heaven. The shining city will rest on the place that God made clean and ready for it. Jesus, with His people and the angels, enters the Holy City.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 662, 663, adapted.

`How hard would this life be if everything ended forever with death? What hope does God give us in Jesus?`