---
title:  Wine and Blood
date:   28/05/2025
---

`Read Psalm 75. What does this psalm teach us about some of the evils that God will correct when He judges the people on this earth? Also read Matthew 26:26–29 and Revelation 14:9–12. How do these other verses help us understand the work that God will do?`

Some Bible thinkers believe that the Jews sang Psalm 75 when God destroyed Sennacherib’s army (2 Chronicles 32; 2 Kings 19). This story shows us the final end of the lost people in Revelation 20. God’s people are inside the Holy City with their holy King when the armies of evil come around them. God Himself destroys the army of lost people.

When God judges the earth, one of the things He corrects is the wrong use of power and control. Many people no longer live for other people or for God’s glory, but for self. Today in many ways, we are living with the terrible problems that come from choosing to believe that no real meaning or law governs heaven and earth. The thinker Friedrich Nietzsche said that we must invent meaning for ourselves. Each person behaves as if he or she is a god.

You may ask, How well did this thinking work out for Nietzsche? Not too well, really. Nietzsche went crazy. He fell down on a street in Italy after he tried to stop a man from beating a horse. Then Nietzsche spent the next 11 years of his life with a confused mind before he died in 1900.

Our problems may be very bad at times. But as Christians, we must live with hope. We must not judge the future by the bad things that are happening now. Sure, we can feel upset when people, who don’t know God, destroy beliefs we hold dear in our hearts. We now live in a time when ideas as basic as male and female are under attack, at least in some parts of the earth. Some sins that many people were ashamed to talk about privately in the past are now praised in public. That’s how bad things are getting in some parts of the earth.

`We all must do our part now to try to make life better for other people. Why is it always important to remember that God must first destroy this earth and then make it new before all things can be made right or corrected?`