---
title:  All People Will See You Can Save Sinners
date:   29/05/2025
---

`Read Psalm 67. How does this praise hymn help you understand the special work God’s people must do? Read Revelation 14:6–12 for the answer.`

Scientists at MIT invented a new black paint. When objects are covered with this black paint, you almost can’t see them anymore. This new paint is many times darker than any other black material invented in the past. This new paint can soak up nearly 99.995% of all light that we can see. The brightest light can’t make visible the objects covered in this black paint.

Psalm 67 starts with the poet’s asking God to “have mercy on us and bless us. May you be pleased with us. Then your ways will be known on earth. All nations [people] will see that you have the power to save” (Psalm 67:1, 2, NIrV). God’s plan to save people includes a way for Him to accept them into His light without His glory destroying them. Even now, in this life, the Cross of Jesus permits God’s love to shine on us.

But there is more good news: God wants us to show His love to the rest of the people on this earth. God gave this job to Israel. God wanted His temple to be a house of prayer for all the people on the earth: “ ‘Then I will bring them to my holy mountain of Zion. I will give them joy in my house. They can pray there. I will accept their burnt offerings and sacrifices [animals] on my altar. My house will be called [named] a house where people from all nations [people groups] can pray’ ” (Isaiah 56:7, NIrV).

In Psalm 67, David tells us that God wants people on the earth to know that He can save them (verse 2). Sad to say, God’s people often failed Him in this task. Israel’s history in the Old Testament contains some dark chapters. So does the history of the Christian church over the past 2,000 years. Did we paint our hearts with the same dark paint we talked about earlier? We feel good when we stand in God’s light. But we must share it with other people.

God’s end-time church in Revelation 14 doesn’t just stand on Zion with Jesus. They go everywhere on earth to invite other people to join them on God’s holy mountain.

`What personal duty should we feel to teach other people about the Bible truths we love so much?`