---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   30/05/2025
---

Read Psalm 133; Acts 1:4–9; and Revelation 5:4–7.

“During Old Testament times, people plainly saw the Holy Spirit at work in special ways. But no one saw the full power of the Holy Spirit before. Now the followers of Jesus prayed for this gift as Jesus commanded them to do. In heaven, Jesus added His prayers to His followers’ prayers. Jesus asked the Father for the gift of the Holy Spirit to pour on His people.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 37, adapted.

Jesus told His followers to share the Good News about His saving mercy with everyone on earth (Acts 1:8). This work must happen before Jesus comes back (Matthew 24:14). Jesus asks us to continue the work that His first followers started.

When Jesus told us to share the Good News with other people, He didn’t leave us alone to figure out how to do that. Jesus controls the work on earth from heaven’s temple. Our work is connected to Jesus in every way. Jesus guides us and gives us strength. The work is His, not ours. Jesus asks us to follow Him. You will remember how Jesus worked with Israel in Bible times. The Lord asked the Israelites to follow His commands. Then God made miracles happen. The Holy Spirit is already at work in the hearts of our neighbors. God asks us to be there the moment the Holy Spirit asks them to give their lives to Jesus. Then we can invite them to join God’s people as they stand with the Lamb on Zion. We don’t need to invent new plans or ways to save people, because we were never in charge of God’s work.

**Discussion Questions**:

`We preach the Three Angels’ Messages all over the earth. But many people don’t know about Jesus. How can we, as a church, do the work better that Jesus gave us?`

`In Revelation 5, John sees someone give the locked book to the Lamb, who is Jesus. When the locks are broken in Revelation 6, we see the history of the church down to the end of time. What does this chapter teach us about how God will finish His work?`

`What is happening now that could cause the end of this earth’s history to come that we read about in Revelation 13 and 14?`