---
title:  The Anger Pandemic
date:  08/02/2025
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: James
1:19–21**

**The Anger Pandemic**

The anger pandemic has arrived, and it is fierce. As a society, we’re facing increasing levels of stress caused by everything from job loss to social unrest, from growing fears about the direction this world is heading to the feeling that the end of life as we know it is near. Frustrations are erupting into rage that’s being unleashed at alarming rates. Social media feeds and other media outlets are filled with hateful rants directed at governments, institutions, and other various groups—even anger at those who are angry! At home, at school, and even sometimes at church, hot tempers, short fuses, and explosive outbursts are becoming much more common.

Unrestrained anger has enormous risks. It not only harms relationships, family dynamics, and mental well-being but also negatively impacts physical health. It’s been shown to weaken the immune system, and a study in the journal Circulation found that people who are more prone to anger have twice the normal risk of coronary heart disease (Janice E. Williams et al. “Anger Proneness Predicts Coronary Heart Disease Risk,” [2000], doi.org/10.1161/01.CIR.101.17.2034). Research in the European Heart Journal shows that people are at three times greater risk of having a stroke in the two hours following an angry outburst (Elizabeth Mostofsky et al. “Outbursts of Anger as a Trigger of Acute Cardiovascular Events: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis,” [2014], doi.org/10.1093/eurheartj/ehu033). What do we do with anger? That will be the focus of this week’s lesson.

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

#### inScribe

Write out James 1:19–21 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `