---
title:  Beneath the Surface
date:  09/02/2025
---

#### inGest

Writing to fellow believers in the early Christian church, James provided advice on how to handle anger. He was addressing an issue that presumably had been causing some problems among the early community of believers. He was cautioning them to check their anger and encouraging them to become better listeners—counsel we still need today!

Anger often reveals a deeper problem. When we examine our hearts, we might find layers of sadness, disappointment, embarrassment, helplessness, pain, insecurity, grief, anxiety, stress, exhaustion, jealousy, shame, contempt, or bitterness lying behind our anger. Anger can be easier to express, so it tends to mask other emotions that are harder to identify and communicate. We also utilize anger because it’s an emotion that makes us feel “powerful” and protected in contrast with the more vulnerable, rawer emotions listed above. As anger is just the tip of a much larger iceberg of problems hidden beneath the surface, we must first get to the core of the issue to meaningfully address the anger. When our anger is disproportionate to what’s happening, we should ask ourselves, “What is this connected to?” Often the anger comes from a past event that may have little obvious connection to the current situation. Sometimes it may be helpful to work with a therapist to find out where the anger is coming from and how to address it.

We will never have the time to process our experiences and emotions unless we follow James’ counsel to “be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath” (James 1:19). James would spare us from the quick, angry reaction that we deeply regret later. It’s important to apply this biblical counsel to “be slow” as soon as we first recognize the signs of anger: increased heart rate, faster and shallower breathing, sweaty palms, tense muscles, or feeling warm, defensive, or like hurting someone.

It’s also helpful to focus on regulating our accelerated breathing by taking some deep breaths, even if it’s in the middle of a conversation. If you need to, disengage entirely for a while. Go outside, take a walk, clear your mind. Think about a boiling pot of water. You have to remove it from the burner for it to cool down. When your breathing normalizes and your heart rate comes back down, the brain has a better supply of oxygen that allows clearer thinking, and you have better control over yourself. Taking time to cool down enables you to begin processing what’s happening and to respond appropriately instead of simply reacting to the situation. Most importantly, taking time to clear our minds gives room for the Holy Spirit to work inside you. Once you are calmer, you can return to the situation to resolve it.

#### Journal

`Memorize your favorite verse from James 1:19–21. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why is uncontrolled anger a dangerous thing? How have you seen anger impact relationships?`

`Are there people you respect who do a good job of managing anger? How have you seen them handle it?`