---
title:  Appropriate Anger
date:  10/02/2025
---

#### inTerpret

Many are surprised to see how the Bible answers the question, “Is anger sin?” In the Bible, we see that even God gets angry when people sin (Deut. 1:34, 37; 3:26; 4:21; 9:8, 19, 20). This shows us that anger is not necessarily a bad thing; sometimes it can be a righteous response to evil. When we get angry about something that’s wrong, it can motivate us to take action and make things right. That said, of course, anger leads to problems if not managed properly. When our anger is out of control, it can lead to violence and destruction.

The Bible provides instructions for how to control anger. For example, we are told to “be angry, and do not sin” (Eph. 4:26). This tells us two things: anger is not a sin, and it’s possible to express our anger in positive ways without letting it turn into hatred or revenge. We also see from James 1:19 that God desires us to be “slow to anger” (ESV), which means we should think before we react in moments of frustration or rage. In the book of Proverbs, we are told that “a fool vents all his feelings, but a wise man holds them back” (29:11). This means wise people have strong feelings too, but can shape them in the right way and express them at the right time. When trying to control anger, the goal is not to never feel angry again or even to stop feeling angry in the moment or shove it aside; instead, it’s learning how to express anger in constructive ways so it doesn’t destroy relationships or hurt people—ourselves included.

If you find yourself struggling with anger, know that you’re not alone. The first step is to admit that you have a problem and need help. Next, go to God for healing and strength. Finally, find friends who can help you stay close to God. Never be ashamed to lean on friends for support in taking you to Christ. We all eventually dry up spiritually when we try to be a solo Christian with no community or support. Spiritually successful people surround themselves with friends who will “exhort [encourage, plead with, appeal to] one another daily” (Heb. 3:13). Remember, though, that while you need friends, your ultimate healing and strength come from God. He wants to do for you what no human friend ever could.

Victory over anger usually takes time. If you don’t get it all right the first time or even the tenth, don’t give up—keep moving forward in the mercy, love, forgiveness, grace, and power of God. Don’t allow the enemy any foothold in your walk, even when you slip. When we do fall, God has promised and is faithful to forgive us. Remember God’s promises, talk to Him, and try again.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What are appropriate ways and times to express anger?`

` `