---
title:  Applying the Principles
date:  12/02/2025
---

#### inVite

The Bible uses the word “anger” over two hundred times! Clearly, God knows the challenge of anger. He wants us to understand how to deal with our emotions in a healthy way. Let’s consider seven steps to help us apply the biblical principles we’ve discussed.

Know and focus on your goals. If you want loving relationships with your family and friends, write this goal down and review it daily. Throughout the day, ask yourself, “Are my reactions and behavior building God-honoring relationships?” If the answer is yes, praise the Lord. If the answer is no, note where you need to improve, ask forgiveness where needed, and strategize with God’s Word in your hand (and maybe with a trusted accountability partner) on ways you can improve. It’ll get easier with time and practice.

Keep track of when you get angry. Use an anger log to learn as much as possible about the situations where you get angry. Identify your vulnerable times so you can learn from them and either seek to avoid them or work through them more effectively in the future. Try to find the roots or the true sources of the anger. For example, much of anger is due to unresolved trauma, anger toward God, parents, perpetrators, etc. Anger can also come from pride, from thinking we’re better than others and therefore judging them (e.g. road rage, “They should drive better [like I do]”).

Breathe. Whenever you start to feel angry or irritated, take control of your breathing. Even before we’re conscious of being upset, our breathing becomes faster and shallower, making us more likely to lose control of our behavior. When you start feeling irritated, practice deep breathing (5 seconds in through the nose, hold for 2 seconds, then slowly breathe out through the mouth for 5 seconds). Repeat that pattern about ten times. This will provide plenty of oxygen to your brain so you can make a thoughtful decision.

Make a list. Write out and keep a list of ten things you can do when you get upset. Healthy distractions and outlets can be powerful anger management techniques. Common choices include taking a walk, working out, calling a friend, saying a prayer, claiming your favorite Bible promises, drawing, writing, or creating something, and baking or cooking. All of these can be helpful as long as it doesn’t become permanent avoidance. You have to get back to the issue causing the anger.

Think it through. Ask yourself: “If I react angrily to this situation, what will happen to my relationships, to the goal I’m trying to accomplish here, to the people I love?” Think about the immediate and long-term effects of how you respond. Thinking things through is a strength of the human brain. Use your God-given reasoning power to keep anger under control.

Be responsible. Prepare for potential moments of anger by taking care of yourself. Get plenty of sleep, exercise, water, and proper nutrition. It’s also beneficial to take time to engage in healthy hobbies. All these things reduce our vulnerability to unhealthy anger and other unpleasant emotions.

Seek help when you need to. If you’re having trouble controlling your anger and it’s causing significant problems in your relationships or with your job, it may be time to get professional help—and that’s okay! We’re not meant to go through life alone. It is not a mark of failure to see a professional for help, just as it’s not a letdown to see a doctor when you’re sick.

Take the steps the Holy Spirit is asking you to take today to overcome anger or help someone with anger.

#### Journal

`Meditate on James 1:19–21 again to see where Jesus is and how you can apply this passage in your daily life.`

`How can you prepare so you can apply biblical principles when you feel yourself getting angry?`

`Do you know someone who struggles with anger? How can you help them without seeming condescending?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you personally through the text of the week?`

`Prayer Response:`