---
title:  The Kingdom of Seeds
date:  19/12/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 6:25–34

The Kingdom of Seeds

We must make no mistake about it—God is intent on launching a revolution. Through the prophet Daniel, He clearly stated His goal to King Nebuchadnezzar that “in the days of these kings the God of heaven will set up a kingdom which shall never be destroyed; and the kingdom shall not be left to other people; it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever” (Dan. 2:44).

“ ‘Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? or with what comparison shall we compare it?’ In earthly governments there was nothing that could serve for a similitude. No civil society could afford Him a symbol. ‘It is like a grain of mustard seed,’ He said, ‘which, when it is sown upon the earth, though it be less than all the seeds that are upon the earth, yet when it is sown, groweth up, and becometh greater than all the herbs, and putteth out great branches; so that the birds of the heaven can lodge under the shadow thereof.’ (R.V.)” (Christ’s Object Lessons, 76).

The kingdom of Jesus Christ is not illustrated in brute force, military strength, or the caprice of man. Instead it is based on the immeasurable results produced through the life of a seed that has found fertile ground. When the faded glory of earthly kingdoms perishes with the leaders who established them, the power of Christ’s revolution against sin remains forever in the lives of those He came to claim.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 6:25–34 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``