---
title:  God Is Love
date:  23/12/2020
---

#### inVite

“ ‘God is love.’ 1 John 4:16. His nature, His law, is love. It ever has been; it ever will be. ‘The high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity,’ whose ‘ways are everlasting,’ changeth not. With Him ‘is no variableness, neither shadow of turning.’ Isaiah 57:15; Habakkuk 3:6; James 1:17.

“Every manifestation of creative power is an expression of infinite love. The sovereignty of God involves fullness of blessing to all created beings. . . .

“The history of the great conflict between good and evil, from the time it first began in heaven to the final overthrow of rebellion and the total eradication of sin, is also a demonstration of God's unchanging love” (Patriarchs and Prophets, 33).

It was to prove this message true that God sent His only Son into this world to save the human race. Jesus became flesh and tabernacled with us because that is the nature of His kingdom. Satan’s accusation against God was that He was selfish and that His unkeepable law was the means by which God chose to separate Himself from humanity.

By launching his attack on the human family, Satan thought to create an eternal separation between us and God, thus ruining the principles of heaven’s government forever. God must either change His law which He declares to be founded on love, or He must destroy His children whom He claims to love. However, when it comes to measuring the love of God, only one outcome is possible: our estimation of it will always fall short of its grandeur. God so loved the world that He gave His Son to be one with the human race and to die the death that we deserved so that we might obtain the life that He deserves.

God’s purpose from the beginning of creation has always been the same. He has always desired communion with us. Our sin, separating God from us, has created a chasm that seemed insurmountable. How could the divine purpose in us be fulfilled now that sin had marred the image of God in our characters and introduced death to our experience? Through Jesus, all things are possible. For this reason, His life, death, and resurrection were, are, and forever will be the only object worthy of our affection and study.

“The great controversy is ended. Sin and sinners are no more. The entire universe is clean. One pulse of harmony and gladness beats through the vast creation. From Him who created all, flow life and light and gladness, throughout the realms of illimitable space. From the minutest atom to the greatest world, all things, animate and inanimate, in their unshadowed beauty and perfect joy, declare that God is love” (The Great Controversy, 678).

``