---
title:  Ending Slavery
date:  22/07/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Leviticus 4:27–31**

**Ending Slavery**

When the book _Uncle Tom’s Cabin_ came out in 1852, it sold more copies than any other book on the planet except the Bible. The book’s primary purpose was to highlight the evils of slavery and inspire an end to its atrocities, but it was also about forgiveness. The protagonist is a Christian slave named Uncle Tom who lived under several different slave masters. In secret, Tom helped his fellow slaves escape through the Underground Railroad. He was also a prayer warrior who, inspired by Jesus’ teachings, prayed for his enemies, the worst of whom was Simon Legree, his final and cruelest slave master. Legree hated Black folk _and_ Christianity, putting Uncle Tom in the crosshairs of horrific abuse. Tragically, Legree and several other slaves beat Uncle Tom to death, but shortly before he died he said his own version of Jesus’ plea when He hung dying on the cross: “Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do” (Luke 23:34). At the end of the day, _Uncle Tom’s Cabin_ was a call to forgive even your worst enemies.

Forgiveness is not always easy. It’s one thing if someone wrongs you in a minor way, but it’s entirely different when someone causes you harm in a major, destructive, and painful way. No, forgiveness is not always easy! But when we forgive, we display one of the beautiful attributes of God Himself (Luke 23:34). Unsurprisingly, forgiveness is the next great value in Leviticus.

God’s promise of forgiveness is as strong in Leviticus as in any book of the Bible. If we miss God’s desire to forgive in Leviticus, the book is completely misunderstood. While Exodus gives us ten commandments, Leviticus gives us ten promises of forgiveness (Lev. 4:20, 26, 31, 35; 5:10, 13, 16, 18; 6:7; 19:22). The Ten Commandments convict the sinner, but the blood of the lamb in Leviticus frees the sinner.

#### inScribe

Write out Leviticus 4:27–31 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 31. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `