---
title:  A Path to Forgiveness
date:  23/07/2023
---

#### inGest

Unlike the three offerings we have already discussed (the burnt, grain, and fellowship offerings), the sin offering found in Leviticus 4 was not optional; it was mandatory. Interestingly, before the sin offering was introduced to Israel, the burnt offering had served in its place for hundreds of years. God in His wisdom created this distinct sacrifice to help us better understand the high value He places on forgiveness. It became the most important of all the sacrifices, and it most beautifully described Jesus’ future work!

If an Israelite wanted their sins forgiven and covered (atonement), and if they wanted to be restored to a right relationship with God, they needed to bring a sin offering and present it “before the Lord” (Lev. 4:4, 7, 15, 18, 24). It had to be offered before the Lord because sin is in essence an act of disobedience and rebellion against God and His law. Yes, sin hurts our fellow human beings, but it is first and foremost an atrocity against God.

Leviticus 4 shows again and again that God defines sin as breaking the Ten Commandments (vv. 2, 13, 22, 27). This definition is found in both the Old and New Testaments, for in 1 John 3:4 we learn that “sin is contrary to the law of God” (NLT). It is in complete opposition to God’s beautiful, loving character (Matt. 22:37–40; 1 John 4:8).

In His great mercy God offered complete forgiveness to all who came to Him with a repentant heart, confessed their sins, and made a sacrifice (Lev. 4:20, 26, 31, 35). Whether it was a member of the Israelite community, a leader, or a priest, a person could offer a sacrifice at any time and receive complete forgiveness and peace in the presence of the Lord. The process was simple but intense. The person would bring a goat, lamb, or bull to the Lord, lay their hand upon the animal, confess their specific sin (Lev. 5:5) and thereby transfer it to the sacrifice, which became their substitute. They would then take the life of the innocent animal, which, as we have discovered in our study of the previous sacrifices, represented our wonderful Savior (John 3:16).

Throughout this incredible chapter we see glimpses of Jesus everywhere: Just as the sacrifices were to be without defect, Jesus is our perfect and spotless Savior (Lev. 4:3, 23, 28). Just as the sin offering—minus its fat—was taken outside the camp of Israel and burned, so Jesus was taken outside the city of Jerusalem and experienced the burning wrath of God (against sin) in our place at Calvary (vv. 12, 21). Just as Christ’s sacrifice was a pleasing aroma to God, the sin offering was too (v. 31). And just as Jesus suffered the penalty of our sins, which is death (Rom. 6:23), and freely gave us forgiveness, the sacrifices did the same (Lev. 4:20, 26, 31, 35). Like the sin offerings, Jesus is “the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for the whole world” (1 John 2:2; see also Heb. 2:17).

**Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`What do we learn about forgiveness from the sin offering?`

`What feelings of guilt and shame do you need to lay at Jesus’ feet today?`