---
title:  Gone Forever
date:  24/07/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Despite all these similarities between Jesus and the sacrifices, the sacrifices in the Old Testament always fell short of Christ’s work. Notice that the sin offerings covered only unintentional sins, not intentional ones (Lev. 4:2–4, 22). This kind of forgiveness was possible only through the shed blood of Christ Himself, which was in the distant future. The Israelites had access to this depth of forgiveness only by faith in the coming Savior. It could never be supplied by the sacrificial animals, even symbolically. Notice that both confession and repentance were necessary, but were not enough to warrant God’s forgiveness. They were essential, but not until the blood was shed did the offeror have assurance of forgiveness. The Bible is clear that “without the shedding of blood there is no remission” (Heb. 9:22). This is because “the wages of sin is death” (Rom. 6:23), and the sacrifices that symbolized Jesus had to die the death the offeror should have died.

Perhaps you are wondering how you might receive forgiveness and right standing with God today. Leviticus 4 makes it crystal clear: First, you must be aware of your guilt (vv. 14, 23, 28). In other words, when you come before the Lord, you need to confess the specific sin you are wanting forgiveness for. By faith, you are in essence placing your hand upon Jesus’ head and transferring your guilt to Him. On the cross 2,000 years ago Jesus took your guilt and with His own blood paid your debt in full. Both your unintentional and intentional sins have been forgiven! Shout “Amen!” with me!

Sadly, there are many people in the world today who do not know this simple fact. Many suffer psychological disorders as a result of the effects of guilt, real or perceived. So often they attempt to find freedom from that guilt on a professional’s couch without realizing that freedom from deep spiritual guilt as a result of sin is found only at the foot of the cross. The Bible teaches that Jesus’ blood can cleanse the guilt from our consciences (Heb. 9:14). Of course, this does not mean there is no place for counselors, psychologists, or psychiatrists, but as wonderful as these individuals are, they are unable to do what only the blood of Christ can do.

Just like the offeror in Leviticus 4, after laying our sins by faith upon Jesus, we can walk away knowing our sins have been forgiven and we are free from their guilt and shame. There are sadly many who have trouble believing this because their feelings of regret and shame hold them in continual bondage to their sins, but when sinners realize and understand that forgiveness is a promise and is therefore based on faith, not feelings, they then begin to experience the joy of having their sins truly taken away.

Micah 7:19 says God throws our sins “into the depths of the sea” (see also Ps. 103:12) when we repent. Corrie ten Boom put it like this: “When we confess our sins, God casts them into the deepest ocean, gone forever. And even though I cannot find a scripture for it, I believe God then places a sign out there that says, ‘No fishing allowed’ ” (Tramp for the Lord [1971], p. 53). Again, shout “Amen!” with me!

`What questions emerge after studying Leviticus 4:27–31? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can we help those who are trapped in their guilt and shame escape those bonds?`