---
title:  Forgiven to Forgive
date:  26/07/2023
---

#### inVite

God has given us helpful tools to alert us when we have committed or are about to commit a sin and unleash shame, pain, and death into both our own lives and the lives of others: First, God has given us a conscience; when not continually ignored, it tells us when our actions “fall short of the glory of God” (Rom. 3:23). The Holy Spirit speaks to our conscience and convicts us “of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment” (John 16:8). In other words, the Spirit alerts us to sin and warns us of the coming judgment, but also empowers us to live righteously for God. Second, God has given us His Word, including the Ten Commandments in Exodus 20, and the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5–7, in which Jesus expands and deepens our understanding of God’s law so that we can identify sin more clearly. If you really want to know how a disciple of Jesus should live, carefully read these three chapters of Matthew.

Have you ever wondered what happened to the sins when the Israelites confessed them and laid them upon their sacrifices? According to Leviticus 4, a person’s sins were transferred into the sanctuary by the shed blood of the sacrifice (vv. 5–7). Put simply, the blood both cleansed and contaminated—it cleansed the sinner but contaminated the sanctuary! The priest went into the sanctuary with the blood and sprinkled it before the curtain that divided the Holy place from the Most Holy Place seven times before anointing the horns of the altar of incense. Because of this practice, while the people were being cleansed and forgiven by the blood of the sacrifices, the sanctuary was becoming more and more contaminated by the people’s sins as the year went on. That’s why a special Day of Atonement was necessary in order to cleanse the sanctuary (Lev. 16).

God models forgiveness and values it in His people. Although forgiveness is not easy and often requires incredible sacrifice, God expects His people to pay it forward—to forgive others because He forgives us (Matt. 6:14, 15; Luke 11:4). In fact, in Luke 17:3, 4, He commands it! Before we think God harsh in making this a requirement, let’s remember that we are not just victims—we are also victimizers. If you are a sinner (and we all are), then we have not only wronged God but hurt others as well. This does not mean your pain is not real and forgiveness is easy, but it does mean that in light of Calvary, the way in which we must live has been clearly mapped out. Remember His heartbroken words on the cross: “Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do” (Luke 23:34). This prayer was not just for the Romans or the Jews, but for you and me as well. To take up the cross and follow Jesus most certainly includes forgiving those who have wronged us.

When we discover the good news of forgiveness found in the gospel, we have an obligation to return the same to the people around us. It is nearly impossible to find an unforgiving person who has experienced the depth of God’s grace and forgiveness in their lives.

**Meditate on Leviticus 4:27–31 again and look for where Jesus is.**

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`If we find it particularly difficult to forgive a certain person or a certain sin, how can we work toward forgiveness?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`