---
title:  Balance Transfers
date:  27/07/2023
---

#### inSight

“The most important part of the daily ministration was the service performed in behalf of individuals. The repentant sinner brought his offering to the door of the tabernacle, and, placing his hand upon the victim’s head, confessed his sins, thus in figure transferring them from himself to the innocent sacrifice. By his own hand the animal was then slain, and the blood was carried by the priest into the holy place and sprinkled before the veil, behind which was the ark containing the law that the sinner had transgressed. By this ceremony the sin was, through the blood, transferred in figure to the sanctuary. In some cases, the blood was not taken into the holy place; but the flesh was then to be eaten by the priest, as Moses directed the sons of Aaron, saying, ‘God hath given it you to bear the iniquity of the congregation.’ Leviticus 10:17, KJV. Both ceremonies alike symbolized the transfer of the sin from the penitent to the sanctuary.

“Such was the work that went on day by day throughout the year. The sins of Israel being thus transferred to the sanctuary, the holy places were defiled, and a special work became necessary for the removal of the sins. God commanded that an atonement be made for each of the sacred apartments, as for the altar, to ‘cleanse it, and hallow it from the uncleanness of the children of Israel.’ Leviticus 16:19, KJV” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Assn., 1890, 1908], pp. 354, 355).

“As Christ at His ascension appeared in the presence of God to plead His blood in behalf of penitent believers, so the priest in the daily ministration sprinkled the blood of the sacrifice in the holy place in the sinner’s behalf. The blood of Christ, while it was to release the repentant sinner from the condemnation of the law, was not to cancel the sin; it would stand on record in the sanctuary until the final atonement; so in type the blood of the sin offering removed the sin from the penitent, but it rested in the sanctuary until the Day of Atonement” (Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 357).

“Important truths concerning the atonement were taught the people by this yearly service. In the sin offerings presented during the year, a substitute had been accepted in the sinner’s stead; but the blood of the victim had not made full atonement for the sin. It had only provided a means by which the sin was transferred to the sanctuary” (Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 355, 356).

`Review the memory verse. How does it apply to your life this week?`

`After this week’s study of the passage, how is God speaking to you?`

`How is God speaking to you to deal with others?`