---
title:  A Picture of Love
date:   08/08/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
1 Corinthians 13; Galatians 5:22, 23; John 13:1, 34; 1 John 4:8; 2 Timothy 1:7, 13.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The three most important things to have are faith, hope and love. But the greatest [most important] of them is love” (1 Corinthians 13:13, NIrV).

Love is very powerful. That’s why Paul wrote so much about this topic. ‘Agapaō’ is a word for ‘love’ in the Greek language. Paul uses _‘agapaō’_ (or other words for love connected with it) more than 135 times in his letters. That’s almost half of all the words for love in the New Testament. Wow! That should tell us that ‘love’ is an important topic in Paul’s letters to the Corinthians.

We can read many wonderful verses about love in the New Testament. Some of these verses include Romans 8:35–39; 1 Corinthians 2:9; 1 Corinthians 8:3; Galatians 2:20; Colossians 1:13; 1 Thessalonians 3:12, and more.

But none of these verses compares to 1 Corinthians 13.

Last week, we saw that without love, everything we have is worth nothing. That includes our spiritual gifts. This week, we will look closely at 1 Corinthians 13 and the beautiful picture of love it shows us.

As we will see, love is more than a feeling. We must show love in our lives. We show love with the words we say and the things we do. Without love, our words and actions have no worth.

What is love? How does love behave? The life of Jesus fully shows us the answers to these questions.