---
title:  Why Love Matters
date:   09/08/2026
---

Last week we looked at the topic of love in 1 Corinthians 13. This week we are going to study Paul’s words on the topic more deeply.

`Read 1 Corinthians 13. What is Paul saying in this chapter about love?`

Paul isn’t saying that the gift of speaking in different languages isn’t important (1 Corinthians 13:1). Paul also isn’t saying that special messages from God, spiritual understanding, wise words, faith, and helping people are useless gifts (1 Corinthians 13:2, 3). But those skills do not help anyone if we don’t have love in our hearts.

What type of love is Paul talking about in 1 Corinthians 13? Is it the same as the love in the sentence, “I love strawberries”? Or “I love my friends or children”? Paul isn’t talking about these types of love. Yes, 1 Corinthians 13 often is read at many weddings. But Paul is not talking about the love between a husband and wife.

The love that Paul talks about in 1 Corinthians 13 is more than a feeling, good behavior, or helping people. For sure, these things show us some part of the love Paul talks about. But the love in 1 Corinthians 13 is a special gift from the Holy Spirit. The Spirit also helps us to be loving and not selfish. Real love includes giving our thoughts, feelings, and actions completely to Jesus. Then He will live in us and help us to love other people.

`What warning does Jesus give us in Matthew 24:12?`

As this verse shows, love is so important and necessary. We must not let the love in our hearts for other people grow ‘cold.’ We need Jesus’ help to keep our hearts ‘warm’ and filled with love for our families, churches, and neighbors. Jesus is our example. He died for us on the cross. What better and more powerful example of love can there be? Of course, we can’t match Jesus’ love. But with His help, we can do our best to show His love in our lives.

`Think of times when people need to see an example of Jesus’ love more than they need anything else. What are some of these times?`