---
title:  What Love Does
date:   10/08/2026
---

In 1 Corinthians 13:4–7, Paul helps us understand what love does and doesn’t do. In Paul’s ‘picture’ of love, he uses words of action. For Paul, love is more about actions than feelings.

So, what does love do? How does it behave?

**1. Love is patient (_‘makrothymeō’_).** _‘Makrothymeō’_ means to be patient, even in hard times. We must be patient with each other (Ephesians 4:2).

**2. Love is kind (_‘chrēsteuomai’_).** The only time that the New Testament uses the word _‘chrēsteuomai’_ is in 1 Corinthians 13:4–7. Elsewhere in the New Testament, writers use words connected with _‘chrēsteuomai_.’ In the Greek language Bible, writers of the Psalms often use words connected with _‘chrēsteuomai’_ to talk about God’s love (Psalm 145:9). Paul wants us to understand that our love for other people must show God’s love and forgiveness for us.

**3. Love is happy (_‘synchairō’_) when good things happen.** The word _‘synchairō’_ means that we can feel happy for other people when good things happen to them (Luke 1:58; Luke 15:6, 9; 1 Corinthians 12:26; Philippians 2:17, 18).

**4. Love never gives up (_‘stegō’_) on people.** _‘Stegō’_ can mean to keep something private and not tell anyone. _‘Stegō’_ also can mean to stay strong to the end. We see this second idea in 1 Corinthians 9:12. So, most Bible thinkers believe that in this verse _‘stegō’_ means to stay strong to the end.

**5. Love never stops trusting or believing (_‘pisteuō’_).** _‘Pisteuō’_ comes from the same Greek word for faith (_‘pistis’_). In 1 Corinthians 13, love never stops believing the best about God and each other.

**6. Love never loses hope (_‘elpizō’_).** In the New Testament, the word _‘elpizō’_ always means that we will believe or expect that something good will happen.

**7. Love never quits (_‘hypomenō’_).** How is the word _‘hypomenō’_ different from _‘stegō’_? We just saw _‘stegō’_ means “to stay strong to the end.” The two words are not very different. They mean much the same thing: to stay strong during hard times. Paul uses a new word to teach the same idea and to help us pay attention to how love stays strong. Love stays strong when it believes and hopes.

`Compare 1 Corinthians 13:4–7 to Galatians 5:22, 23. What same ideas do you see in both sets of verses? How can we show this love in our own lives?`