---
title:  What Love Does Not Do
date:   11/08/2026
---

`Read again 1 Corinthians 13:4–7. In these verses, why does Paul tell us what love doesn’t do?`

Yesterday, we looked at seven things that love does. Today, we will look at eight things love doesn’t do.

What does love not do?

**1. Love doesn’t get jealous (_‘zēloō’_).** _‘Zēloō’_ can mean something good: “But above all, you should want [_‘zēloō’_] the more important gifts” (1 Corinthians 12:31, NIrV). Also, “Brothers and sisters, you should want [_‘zēloō’_] to ­prophesy [to speak special messages from God]” (1 Corinthians 14:39, NIrV). But in 1 Corinthians 13:4–7, and also in Acts 7:9, the word _‘zēloō’_ is used to show us what we shouldn’t do. So, we should want spiritual gifts. But we should not be jealous of people and their spiritual gifts. Jealousy causes separation (1 Corinthians 3:3).

**2. Love doesn’t brag (_‘perpereuomai’_).** Bible writers use _‘perpereuomai’_ to show us someone whose heart is filled with pride. This person also wants praise from other people. Real love isn’t selfish in that way.

**3. Love doesn’t say, “I am important! (_‘physioō’_).”** Paul also uses the word _‘physioō’_ in 1 Corinthians 8:1: “When you know about something, that can make you proud” [EASY]. _‘Physioō’_ shows us someone who feels he is very important.

**4. Love isn’t mean (_‘aschēmoneō’_).** _‘Aschēmoneō’_ can mean many different things. Often it means to misbehave or do what is wrong. Paul may be talking about the mean behavior of strong church members toward weak members in the church (1 Corinthians 4:10; 1 Corinthians 8).

**5. Love isn’t selfish (_‘zēteo’_).** Love tries to do what is good for other people, not just for self (read 1 Corinthians 10:24). Love helps other people (read Lesson 5). When everyone tries to do what is best for other people, we all win.

**6. Love doesn’t get mad easily (_‘paroxynō’_).** Paul uses _‘paroxynō’_ to show us someone who gets mad easily.

**7. Love doesn’t remember (_‘logizomai’_) the wrong things people do.** The word ‘logizomai’ means that we don’t keep a record of the wrong things that other people do. So, love means to forgive.

**8. Love isn’t happy (_‘chairō’_) when people do wrong.** When we really love other people, we aren’t happy when they make mistakes. We try to help them.