---
title:  A Picture of Jesus
date:   12/08/2026
---

We may get upset with ourselves when we don’t always show love in all the ways that Paul talks about in 1 Corinthians 13. For sure, Paul was thinking about Jesus when he wrote 1 Corinthians 13. Only Jesus can show love in all the ways Paul talks about. So, Paul’s picture of love is really a picture of Jesus.

`Read John 13:1, 34; John 15:9, 12; 1 Timothy 1:14; 2 Timothy 1:7, 13; 1 John 3:16; and 1 John 4:7–12, 19–21. What can we learn about love from these verses?`

God is love (1 John 4:8). God loves us so much that He gave us His only Son (John 3:16). Jesus shows us this love (Hebrews 1:3). If we want to know how to show love, we must look at Jesus. Then we will see that Jesus shows us the love in 1 Corinthians 13.

**Jesus is patient.** Paul says, “Christ Jesus showed that he was completely patient [_‘makrothymia’_] with me, the worst person. That was an example to those people who would later believe in him. They would believe and receive [get] life for ever with God” (1 Timothy 1:16, EASY).

**Jesus is kind.** The Bible says that “the Lord is kind” (1 Peter 2:3, LEB). The word “Lord” in this verse is Jesus.

The word “kind” in this verse is also connected to the Greek word for being kind in 1 Corinthians 13:4.

**Jesus is happy when good things happen.** Jesus felt joy when He followed His Father’s plan and felt His Father’s love for Him (John 15:9–11; John 17:12–14).

**Jesus stays strong to the end.** Hebrews 12:3 says, “Think carefully about how Jesus lived on earth. Bad people did very bad things against him, but he continued to be strong” (EASY). Jesus suffered more than anyone else (Philippians 2:8). Jesus did these things because He ­wanted to do what He needed to do so that we could live with Him forever. That thought filled Him with joy!

**Jesus always trusts and believes.** When Ananias wondered if Paul was really a Christian, Jesus answered, “ ‘I have chosen him to work for me!’ ” (Acts 9:15, EASY). Jesus sees people for who they really are. More than that, He sees who they can become with His love.

`What are other ways that Jesus shows us what love is?`