---
title:  Faith, Hope, and Love
date:   13/08/2026
---

So far, we learned that love is patient, kind, joyful, trusting, and hopeful. Love never quits and stays strong. Jesus is all these things. When we understand these things about Jesus, our next job is to copy His life. Paul wanted the Corinthians to copy Jesus.

But the Corinthians needed to learn a lot. So do we. After Paul tells us what love does and doesn’t do, he ends with a talk about how real love is everlasting. Paul wants to encourage us to show this love in our lives.

The time will come when we won’t need special ­messages about the future anymore. We will speak only one language. Human wisdom will be replaced with God’s wisdom (1 Corinthians 13:12). The gifts that the Holy Spirit gives us will stop when we finish the work that God gave us the gifts to do (1 Corinthians 13:10). But “love will always continue” (1 Corinthians 13:8, EASY).

In the same way, faith will be replaced with sight when Jesus comes back (2 Corinthians 5:7). We will finally have everything we hoped for (Romans 8:24). Most of all, love will continue. Love shows us the heart of our Three-in-One God. The Three-in-One God is God the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit. At the same time, faith and hope will also continue forever in a way. God’s people will always remember the faith and hope they had in their hearts. They had faith that Jesus would save them (Romans 4:3). They hoped for a better life in the new earth. God’s love is the strongest gift of all. God’s love will continue forever.

Very soon, we will see our Lord face-to-face (1 Corinthians 13:12). Until that day comes, we must show these three things in our lives: faith, hope, and love. These three gifts show us the life we can have with God’s Spirit. These three gifts were very important to the Christian life (Romans 5:1–5; Galatians 5:5, 6; Ephesians 1:15, 18; Ephesians 4:1–5). Love is the most important gift of all (1 Corinthians 13:13). That’s because God is love (1 John 4:8).

`Think about the idea that “God is love” (1 John 4:8, ERV). What does this idea mean exactly? We can understand this idea only in part now. At the same time, why is this verse very good news for us?`