---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   14/08/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Need of Love,” pages 545, 546, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, August 28, 1888.

“If you say you are a Christian, then your heart will be filled with love for God and for people. If your heart isn’t filled with this love, then you aren’t a true follower of Jesus. Maybe you have enough faith and power to do miracles. But without love, your faith is useless. Maybe you give big offerings to the church and help many people. But if you don’t have love in your heart, then all your gifts won’t earn you God’s favor. Even if you gave away all of your belongings to feed the poor. Maybe you are willing to die for God. But if you don’t have love for God in your heart, God will not reward you for giving up your life.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 318, 319, adapted.

“We have many sermons. What we need most is love for people who are lost. This love comes from the throne of God. Real Christianity will fill our whole lives with love. Love changes every part of us: our brain, the heart, our helping hands, and the feet. Love helps us to stand strong for God. Love keeps us from being weak or walking on the wrong road in life. Jesus’ love for lost people gives strength to the whole Christian life.”—Ellen G. White, Lift Him Up, page 134, adapted.

“What is the only love that can heal? The love that comes from the heart of Jesus. Only Jesus can heal our hurting and suffering hearts.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 114, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Do you think Paul’s list about love is complete? If no, what else would you add to the list?`

`What do you think Paul meant when he said, “Love is the thing you should want more than anything else” (1 Corinthians 14:1, WE)? How does this command help us to understand what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 13:4–7?`

`Which parts of love do you need to show more in your daily life? Which parts of love does your local church need to show? Why do you think Paul compares love with the gifts of special messages; different languages; and wise words (1 Corinthians 13:8)?`