---
title:  Preparation for the Flood
date:  17/04/2022
---

`Read Genesis 6:13–7:10. What lesson can we learn from this amazing account of early human history?`

Like Daniel, Noah is a prophet who predicts the end of the world. The Hebrew word for the “ark” (tevah) (Gen. 6:14) is the same rare Egyptian loanword that was used for the “ark,” in which the infant Moses was hidden, who was preserved in order to save Israel from Egypt (Exod. 2:3).

Also, some have seen in the general structure of the ark parallels to the ark of the tabernacle (Exod. 25:10). Just as the ark of the Flood will permit the survival of humankind, so the ark of the covenant, a sign of God’s presence in the midst of His people (Exod. 25:22), points to God’s work of salvation for His people.

The phrase “Noah did; according to all that God commanded” (Gen. 6:22, NKJV) concludes the preparatory section. The verb ‘asah, “did,” referring to Noah’s action, responds to the verb ‘asah, “make,” in God’s command, which began the section (Gen. 6:14) and is repeated five times (Gen. 6:14–16). This echo between God’s command and Noah’s response suggests Noah’s absolute obedience to what God had told him to do, to _‘asah_. It is interesting that this phrase also is used in the context of the building of the ark of the covenant (Exod. 39:32, 42; Exod. 40:16).

“God gave Noah the exact dimensions of the ark and explicit directions in regard to its construction in every particular. Human wisdom could not have devised a structure of so great strength and durability. God was the designer, and Noah the master builder.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 92.

Again, the parallel between the two “arks” reaffirms their common redemptive function. Noah’s obedience is thus described as a part of God’s plan of salvation. Noah was saved simply because he had that faith to do what God commanded him to do (see Heb. 11:7). He was an early example of a faith that manifests itself in obedience, the only kind of faith that matters (James 2:20).

In short, though Noah “found grace in the eyes of the Lord” (Gen. 6:8), it was in response to this grace, already given him, that Noah acted faithfully and obediently to God’s commands. Isn’t that how it should be with all of us?

`Read 2 Peter 2:5–9. Why was only Noah’s family saved? What lesson can we learn from the Noah story regarding our role in warning the world about coming judgment?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

More than one hundred years before the Flood the Lord sent an angel to faithful Noah to make known to him that He would no longer have mercy upon the corrupt race. But He would not have them ignorant of His design. He would instruct Noah and make him a faithful preacher to warn the world of its coming destruction, that the inhabitants of the earth might be left without excuse. Noah was to preach to the people, and also to prepare an ark as God should direct him for the saving of himself and family. He was not only to preach, but his example in building the ark was to convince all that he believed what he preached.<br/>
Noah and his family were not alone in fearing and obeying God. But Noah was the most pious and holy of any upon the earth, and was the one whose life God preserved to carry out His will in building the ark and warning the world of its coming doom.—The Story of Redemption, pp. 62, 63.

Noah stood like a rock amid the tempest. He was surrounded by every species of wickedness and moral corruption; but amid popular contempt and ridicule, amid universal wickedness and disobedience, he distinguished himself by his holy integrity and unwavering faithfulness. While the world around him were disregarding God, and were indulging in all manner of extravagant dissipation which led to violence and crimes of every kind, the faithful preacher of righteousness declared to that generation that a flood of water was to deluge the world because of the unsurpassed wickedness of its inhabitants. He warned them to repent and believe, and find refuge in the ark. . . .<br/>
. . . A power attended his words; for it was the voice of God to man through His servant. Connection with God made him strong in the strength of infinite power, while for one hundred and twenty years his solemn warning voice fell upon the ears of the men of that generation in regard to events, which, so far as human wisdom could judge, seemed impossible. . . . How simple and childlike, amid the unbelief of a scoffing world, was the faith of Noah. . . . He gave to the world an example of believing just what God said.—Reflecting Christ, p. 322.

It is a fearful thing to treat lightly the truth which has convinced our understanding and touched our hearts. We cannot with impunity reject the warnings which God in mercy sends us. A message was sent from heaven to the world in Noah’s day, and the salvation of men depended upon the manner in which they treated that message. Because they rejected the warning, the Spirit of God was withdrawn from the sinful race, and they perished in the waters of the flood. . . . Looking down to the last days, the same infinite power declares, concerning those who “received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved,” “For this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie: that they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.” As they reject the teachings of His Word, God withdraws His Spirit, and leaves them to the deceptions which they love.—Early Writings, p. 45.