---
title:  The Event of the Flood
date:  18/04/2022
---

The verb _‘asah_, “make,” which refers to Noah’s actions, also is a keyword in the Genesis Creation account (Gen. 1:7, 16, 25, 26, 31; Gen. 2:2). Noah’s acts of obedience to God are like God’s acts of creation. What we can take from this link is that the Flood is not just about God punishing humanity, but about God saving us, as well.

`Read Genesis 7. Why does the description of the Flood remind us of the Creation account? What lessons can we learn from the parallels between the two events?`

An attentive reading of the text covering the Flood reveals the use of many common words and expressions within the Creation story: “seven” (Gen. 7:2, 3, 4, 10; compare with Gen. 2:1–3); “male and female” (Gen. 7:2, 3, 9, 16; compare with Gen. 1:27); “after its kind” (Gen. 7:14, NKJV; compare with Gen. 1:11, 12, 21, 24, 25); “beasts,” “birds,” “creeping things” (see Gen. 7:8, 14, 21, 23; compare with Gen. 1:24, 25); and “breath of life” (Gen. 7:15, 22; compare with Gen. 2:7).

The Flood story reads, then, somewhat like the Creation story. These echoes of the Creation accounts help reveal that the God who creates is the same as the God who destroys (Deut. 32:39). But these echoes also convey a message of hope: the Flood is designed to be a new creation, out of the waters, which leads to a new existence.

The movement of waters shows that this event of creation is, in fact, reversing the act of Creation in Genesis 1. In contrast to Genesis 1, which describes a separation of the waters above from the waters below (Gen. 1:7), the Flood involves their reunification as they explode beyond their borders (Gen. 7:11).

This process conveys a paradoxical message: God has to destroy what is before in order to allow for a new creation afterward. The creation of the new earth requires the destruction of the old one. The event of the Flood prefigures the future salvation of the world at the end of time: “ ‘I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away’ ” (Rev. 21:1, NKJV; compare with Isa. 65:17).

`What in us needs to be destroyed in order to be created anew? (See Rom. 6:1–6.)`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Bible record is in harmony with itself and with the teaching of nature. Of the first day employed in the work of creation is given the record, “The evening and the morning were the first day.” Genesis 1:5. And the same in substance is said of each of the first six days of creation week. Each of these periods Inspiration declares to have been a day consisting of evening and morning, like every other day since that time. In regard to the work of creation itself the divine testimony is, “He spake, and it was done; He commanded, and it stood fast.” Psalm 33:9. . . .<br/>
. . . Before the Flood the development of vegetable and animal life was immeasurably superior to that which has since been known. At the Flood the surface of the earth was broken up, marked changes took place, and in the re-formation of the earth’s crust were preserved many evidences of the life previously existing. The vast forests buried in the earth at the time of the Flood, and since changed to coal, form the extensive coal fields, and yield the supplies of oil that minister to our comfort and convenience today. These things, as they are brought to light, are so many witnesses mutely testifying to the truth of the word of God.—Education, p. 129.

God’s love for the world was not manifest because He sent His Son, but because He loved the world He sent His Son into the world that divinity clothed with humanity might touch humanity, while divinity lays hold of divinity. Though sin had produced a gulf between man and his God, a divine benevolence provided a plan to bridge that gulf. And what material did He use? A part of Himself. The brightness of the Father’s glory came to a world all seared and marred with the curse, and in His own divine character, in His own divine body, bridged the gulf. . . . The windows of heaven were opened and the showers of heavenly grace in healing streams came to our benighted world.—Our High Calling, p. 12.

There is need that much time be spent in secret prayer, in close communion with God. Thus only can victories be won. Eternal vigilance is the price of safety.<br/>
The Lord’s covenant is with His saints. Everyone is to discern his weak points of character and guard against them with vigor. Those who have been buried with Christ in baptism, and been raised in the likeness of His resurrection, have pledged themselves to live in newness of life. “If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with Him in glory.” Colossians 3:1-4.—Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students, p. 258.