---
title:  'The Covenant: Part 2'
date:  21/04/2022
---

`Read Genesis 8:21–9:1. What is the significance of God’s commitment to the preservation of life? How does God’s blessing fulfill that commitment?`

God’s commitment to preserve life was an act of grace; it was not a result of human merits. God decided to preserve life on earth in spite of human evil (Gen. 8:21). Genesis 8:22 reads, literally, “all the days of the earth” (DRA); that is, for as long as this present earth remains, the seasons will come and go and life will be sustained. In short, God has not given up on His creation.

In fact, the following text, which talks about God’s blessing, takes us back to the original Creation, with its blessing (Gen. 1:22, 28; Gen. 2:3). The Lord, in a sense, was giving humanity a chance to start over, to start fresh.

`Read Genesis 9:8–17. What is the significance of the rainbow? How does this “ ‘sign of the covenant’ ” (Gen. 9:13, NKJV) relate to the other sign of the covenant, the Sabbath?`

The phrase “establish . . . covenant” is repeated three times (Gen. 9:9, 11, 17), marking the climax and fulfillment of God’s initial promise (Gen. 6:18). Following the preceding section, which parallels the sixth day of the Creation account, this section parallels the section covering the seventh day of the Creation account, the Sabbath. Inside the text, the repetition, seven times, of the word “covenant” resonates with the Sabbath. Like the Sabbath, the rainbow is the sign of the covenant (Gen. 9:13, 14, 16; compare with Exod. 31:12–17). Also, like the Sabbath, the rainbow has a universal scope; it applies to the whole world. Just as the Sabbath, as a sign of Creation, is for everyone, everywhere, the promise that no other worldwide flood will come is for everyone, everywhere, as well.

`Next time you see a rainbow, think about all of God’s promises to us. Why can we trust those promises, and how does the rainbow show us that we can trust them?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It is not because of inherent power that year by year the earth produces her bounties and continues her motion round the sun. The hand of God guides the planets and keeps them in position in their orderly march through the heavens. It is through His power that summer and winter, seedtime and harvest, day and night follow each other in their regular succession. It is by His word that vegetation flourishes, that the leaves appear and the flowers bloom. Every good thing we have, each ray of sunshine and shower of rain, every morsel of food, every moment of life, is a gift of love.<br/>
While we were yet unloving and unlovely in character, “hateful, and hating one another,” our heavenly Father had mercy on us. “After that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to His mercy He saved us.” Titus 3:3-5. His love received, will make us, in like manner, kind and tender, not merely toward those who please us, but to the most faulty and erring and sinful.—Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, pp. 74, 75.

As we look upon this bow, the seal and sign of God’s promise to man, that the tempest of His wrath should no more desolate our world by the waters of a flood, we contemplate that other than finite eyes are looking upon this glorious sight. Angels rejoice as they gaze upon this precious token of God’s love to man. The world’s Redeemer looks upon it; for it was through His instrumentality that this bow was made to appear in the heavens, as a token or covenant of promise to man. God Himself looks upon the bow in the clouds, and remembers His everlasting covenant between Himself and man. . . . The bow represents Christ’s love which encircles the earth, and reaches unto the highest heavens, connecting men with God, and linking earth with heaven.<br/>
As we gaze upon the beautiful sight, we may be joyful in God, assured that He Himself is looking upon this token of His covenant, and that as He looks upon it He remembers the children of earth, to whom it was given. Their afflictions, perils, and trials are not hidden from Him. We may rejoice in hope, for the bow of God’s covenant is over us. He never will forget the children of His care. How difficult for the mind of finite man to take in the peculiar love and tenderness of God, and His matchless condescension when He said, “I will look upon the bow in the cloud, and remember thee.”—Our High Calling, p. 314.

We are to send our petitions through the darkest clouds that Satan may cast over us, and let our faith pierce to the throne of God encircled by the rainbow of promise, the assurance that God is true, that in Him is no variableness neither shadow of turning. . . .<br/>
We are to come before the mercy seat with reverence, calling up to our mind the promises that God has given, contemplating the goodness of God, and offering up thankful praises for His unchangeable love. We are not to trust in our finite prayers, but in the word of our heavenly Father, in His assurance of His love for us.—In Heavenly Places, p. 125.