---
title:  Daniel and the End Time
date:   07/04/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “The king answered Daniel, and said, ‘Truly your God is the God of gods, the Lord of kings, and a revealer of secrets, since you could reveal this secret’ ” (Dan. 2:47, NKJV).

**Loyalty in Captivity**

**Introduction**: Luke 16:10

Imagine the scene: Daniel, a young man beaming with energy, intelligence, ambition, and hope. At the height of his dreams and plans, the Babylonian army takes him captive along with the most promising of his compatriots. They finally find themselves in a foreign land, far away from their native country. They experience culture shock, as everything in this land is different. From their food to their worship, Daniel finds everything distasteful.

Faithfulness to God . . . is a requirement for Christians of all ages.

In a twist of fate, the Babylonian officials recognize the potential in him. He is assimilated into their governance structure, with his first assignment at the king’s palace. However, opposed to the sorcery, idolatry, and pagan life in Babylon, with his three friends Daniel resolves to remain faithful to God—the Owner of the universe and everything it. Through his faithfulness, God blesses him, and he rises to the position of a prime minister in a foreign land.

Daniel’s colleagues are angry at his political achievements and faithfulness to God, in light of his foreign background. They plot to make him renounce his faith, adopt their worship, and bend his values. But Daniel resolves to stick to his faith. This leads to a sequence of events where even his life is in danger. In the end, God’s faithfulness prevails as pagan kings come to recognize the true God of Israel, who is able to deliver his faithful servants from the worst of circumstances.

Faithfulness to God, as shown in the life of Daniel, is a requirement for Christians of all ages down to our time. The life of Daniel in Babylon illustrates what can happen to any Christian who maintains faithfulness to God. While Daniel’s life was endangered several times, he was used to reveal the true God to a kingdom that did not know Him. His faithfulness ultimately led the pagan kings to recognize the God of Israel (Dan. 4:2, 3; 6:26, 27).

The story of Daniel and his three friends provides a significant lesson that faithfulness is a key virtue in the life of a Christian. Daniel was consistent in his faith, and he maintained faithfulness even in his old age. As the world nears the close of history, we should recognize our role as Christians to uphold our principles and maintain faithfulness in every situation. That is the basis of our study this week.

_Siprose Ngina, Nairobi, Kenya_