---
title:  Consequences of Commitment
date:   08/04/2018
---

**Evidence**: Dan. 2:48

The story of Daniel and his three comrades brings several lessons to mind for the twenty-first-century Christian. First off, each day in the life of Daniel began with a prayer to the Lord (Dan. 6:10). Every day he communicated with God. Christ echoed the same sentiment when He instructed His disciples to “keep watching and praying” (Matt. 26:41, NASB).

Daniel maintains his faithfulness to the end, even if it costs him his life.

Prayer guards Christians from the snares of temptation. God described Daniel as “greatly beloved” (Daniel 10:11, 19). The character of Daniel matches the description that Christ gave to God’s beloved sons in John 14:21, 23. In addition, it is evident that Daniel developed a prayer habit similar to what we see in the life of Christ (Mark 1:35), Abraham (Gen. 19:27), and David (Ps. 5:3).

As Christians living in the end time, we should have a personal commitment to prayer. We must meditate on God’s Word, which provides a strong foundation of faith and faithfulness to stand the hardest of times.

Daniel’s life also teaches us that faithfulness has a reward. Daniel’s faithfulness led him to a higher position in the kingdom. After the fall of Babylon, Darius recognized him and appointed Daniel to a key government position.

In Daniel’s faithfulness, he saw a solution to the corruption in his government.

When we are faithful to God, we can be faithful to man as well. Daniel’s constant faithfulness to God made him the best among his peers. Since he maintained a consistent daily devotion with God, he succeeded in his career.

But his peers saw Daniel as a threat. “The chief problem they have with Daniel is that their ability to unduly profit from their positions has been ground to a halt. . . . If he is made to rule over all, they foresee the possibility that ALL corruption in the kingdom could be halted.”*

Finally, they found no earthly weakness in Daniel, so they decide to tarnish his spiritual image. They want Daniel to compromise his faith in the true God. Daniel maintains his faithfulness to the end, even if it costs him his life.

**React**

`1. What prevents us from being faithful to God today? What similar situations are we likely to face in the end time?`

`2. How did Daniel not cave to peer pressure? What does this teach us about our position in the world?`

<sup>* “Daniel 6: Not Just a Test of Faith, but Faithfulness,” Walk With the Word, accessed March 16, 2017, http://www.walkwiththeword.org/Studies/01_OT/27_Daniel/27_Daniel_06.html</sup>

_Josephine Nduku, Makueni, Kenya_