---
title:  A Test of Faith in God
date:   09/04/2018
---

**Logos**: Deut. 4:6–8; Daniel 3; Acts 17:28; Gal. 6:14

**Heeding the Voice of God** (Deut. 4:6–8)

The Israelites were to be God’s chosen people, showing His love and power to the rest of the world. The love that God had for Israel applies to everyone who accepts Christ as his or her personal Savior today. For the Israelites, the law of God was a sign, between the Almighty and them, that they were partakers of His eternal kingdom.

Given to the Israelites through Moses, the law was to guide the people through the temptations that surrounded them and the corrupt desires that lurked in their midst so that they could remain pure and loyal to God. During the captivity in Babylon, idolatry stared them in the face. They had to choose between serving worldly kings and obeying the instructions of the true God.

The fourth Person will always be there.

The story of Daniel and his three Hebrew companions teaches Christians today what it means to have the faith of a Christian tested. When they were commanded to pay homage to the whims of human leaders, Daniel and his companions stood for their faith and defended it at all costs. Today, we too have a covenant with God. As Christians, God expects us to follow His instructions as written in the Bible. The degree of our faithfulness to Him and His laws will make the difference between eternal life and eternal death.

**To God Be the Glory** (Gal. 6:14)

In the New Testament, Paul asserts that his glory is not in men or in what they do. Nor is his glory in himself. With all his achievements and success, he attributes his successes to a higher Power. He chooses to glory in Christ.

While many people fail to recognize Christ, Paul chooses to glory in Him and determines to know more about Him (Phil. 3:8). In addition, Paul embarks on a journey of hundreds of miles to make God known to others. He is concerned about salvation, which Christ has brought by His death on the cross. The effect of Christ’s death gives him peace, pardon, righteousness, and eternal glory. “The doctrine of grace, of a crucified Christ, taught him to deny the riches, honours, pleasures, profits, and applause of the world; which were to him as dross, in comparison of the knowledge of Christ Jesus his Lord.”1

The same situation is evident when Daniel, in the palace of Babylon, glories in God rather than in earthly kings. Even after major accomplishments such as interpreting the king’s dream, Daniel chooses to remain humble (Dan. 2:49).

As we near the end of the world, we can draw important lessons from the experiences of Daniel. Similarly, the teachings of Paul speak to us. Regardless of the accomplishments, successes, and prosperity that we may see in this world, our glory should be in Christ, His death on the cross, and our salvation.

**Forced Worship and Amazing Delivery** (Daniel 3)

Daniel 3 points readers to a golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar sets up, demanding that all worship it. However, true to their faith, the three Hebrew sons refuse to worship the golden image, which represents worldly power (Dan. 3:12). The king becomes angry, and he orders the capture and death of Meshach, Shadrach, and Abednego.

Death by furnace was a form of punishment in Babylon (Jer. 29:22). The three Hebrew sons are thrown into a fiery furnace in the hope that the temperature would char them to the bones. Contrary to what the king thinks, and to the amazement of the people, God delivers the victims from the furnace.

The king confesses, “Lo, I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire, and they have no hurt; and the form of the fourth is like the Son of God” (Dan. 3:25). The king finally yields to the power of the true God and orders the men to come out of the furnace.

For those who maintain their allegiance to God, the fourth Person will be present in every situation. Today it may not be a fiery furnace, but we can undergo similar situations that test our loyalty. When we trust God, we surrender our all to Him, including our lives, with no condition (Dan. 3:17, 18).

The world may try to defile the vessels of God, but the fourth Person will always be there to deliver the faithful in all situations.

**Making God Known** (Acts 17:28)

While in Athens, Paul continues to shed light on the omnipotent One—the God above all gods. The people of Athens are deeply into idolatry (Acts 17:23), just as the Babylonian kingdom. In this situation, Paul becomes a vessel of God to people who do not recognize Him. He asserts that God is everywhere and all our actions, both physical and intellectual, stem from Him.

God sees through the darkest souls, and when people turn away from His love, they can meet Him in His displeasure. When we turn from our sins, we still meet a loving and forgiving God. The realization that we are of God implies that we have nothing to call our own.

“To claim any gift of God as our own is to rob God. . . . How much holier, deeper, more blessed, more full of love, is it to draw every breath of our lives in Him, . . . to move around Him as the centre of our being, and who gives us power to move.”2

**React**

`1. What are the benefits of adhering to God’s instructions?`

`2. What are the consequences of bowing to worldly pressure?`

`3. How can we make God known in difficult situations?`

<sup>1. John Gill, “Galatians 6:14,” John Gill’s Exposition of the Bible, Bible Study Tools, accessed March 16, 2017, http://www.biblestudytools.com/commentaries/gills-exposition-of-the -bible/galatians-6-14.html.</sup>
<sup>2. E. B. Pusey, Sermons, vol. 2., p. 372, quoted in William Robertson Nicoll, “Commentary on Acts 17:28,” Sermon Bible Commentary, StudyLight.org, accessed March 16, 2017, http://www.studylight.org/commentary/acts/17-28.html.</sup>

_Florence Mweni, Machakos, Kenya_