---
title:  The Present-Day Daniel
date:   10/04/2018
---

**Testimony**: Isa. 43:10

“As the Lord co-operated with Daniel and his fellows, so He will co-operate with all who strive to do His will. . . . Those who walk in the path of obedience will encounter many hindrances. Strong, subtle influences may bind them to the world; but the Lord is able to render futile every agency that works for the defeat of His chosen ones; in His strength they may overcome every temptation, conquer every difficulty.”1

“A noble character is not the result of accident.”

“In the life of the true Christian, there are no nonessentials; in the sight of Omnipotence every duty is important. The Lord measures with exactness every possibility for service. The unused capabilities are just as much brought into account as those that are used. We shall be judged by what we ought to have done, but did not accomplish because we did not use our powers to glorify God.

“A noble character is not the result of accident; it is not due to special favors or endowments of Providence. It is the result of self-discipline, of subjection of the lower to the higher nature, of the surrender of self to the service of God and man.

“There is need of men who like Daniel will do and dare for the cause of right. Pure hearts, strong hands, fearless courage, are needed; for the warfare between vice and virtue calls for ceaseless vigilance.”2

“The spirit that possessed Daniel, the youth of today may have; they may draw from the same source of strength, possess the same power of selfcontrol, and reveal the same grace in their lives, even under circumstances as unfavorable. Though surrounded by temptations to self-indulgence, especially in our large cities, where every form of sensual gratification is made easy and inviting, yet by divine grace their purpose to honor God may remain firm. Through strong resolution and vigilant watchfulness they may withstand every temptation that assails the soul. But only by him who determines to do right because it is right will the victory be gained.”3

**React**

`In what situations do we need to apply the example of Daniel, whether as a church or as individuals?`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, p. 487.</sup>
<sup>2. Ibid., p. 488.</sup>
<sup>3. Ibid., pp. 489, 490.</sup>

_Rose Ndanu, Makueni, Kenya_