---
title:  Pulling Off the Mask
date:   11/04/2018
---

**How-to**: John 3:7

Before we accept Christ as our personal Savior, we wear a mask that we often accept as our real face. This mask must drop off in order for us to become one with God (Acts 9:18). In the new life with Christ, we begin to experience an inner peace and joy, knowing that our lives belong to God.

In the book of Daniel, various leaders acknowledge the existence of God— but only after seeing His works through Daniel. Many people today operate on the same principle of “seeing is believing.” However, as followers of Christ, the Lord expects us to believe even before we see (John 20:29). The work of God through Daniel reminds everyone that we can achieve nothing by our own power. But when we humble ourselves before Him, God is able to lift us to greater heights.

Our Father in heaven has the last word.

The Bible explains that the greatest requirement to prepare us for the end time is to be born again. The conversation between Jesus and Nicodemus (John 3:1–9) shows Christians that salvation is possible for all, Jew and Gentile. Once we accept Christ as our personal Savior, He can grant us the power to overcome all the challenges that we experience in the end time.

King Nebuchadnezzar believed in his personal might, power, and majesty.

In his mind, he knew that only he had the final word. However, it came to pass that God had the last word. As the world reels to its end, it is time to believe that our Father in heaven has the last word. We can see fear, despair, frustration, or even death, but God finally delivers His faithful servants.

The best way to be closer to God is to accept Christ as your Savior, through baptism. Once born again, we can be the true branches of the vine (John 15:5). With a born-again experience, our hearts remain repentant in Christ no matter what comes our way. Here are tips to follow to help us pull off the mask and accept Christ as our Savior.

Do not have a hard heart. God has provided means by which we can recognize His existence. Just as Daniel was an agent in Babylon, we have agents with the same message today. When we hear the message, we should allow it to take its course in our lives (Heb. 3:7, 8).

Decide once and forever. The journey to salvation allows no back and forth. Once we decide, we focus on one prize of eternal life, and there is no looking back (Phil. 3:14).

Acknowledge God above everything else. Worldly success and accomplishments should not lead us to leave God. Instead, they should provide the means to help us move closer to God (2 Cor. 3:5).

_Joseph Wambua, Nairobi, Kenya_