---
title:  'Faithfulness: Benefits and Consequences'
date:   12/04/2018
---

**Opinion**: Dan. 6:3

Each time we do anything for God, the devil is unhappy. With his agents on earth, he tries very hard to dissuade us from doing the right thing. This tug of war between good and evil has existed for many years.

In Daniel 6, the faithfulness of Daniel leads him to a place of honor. King Darius sees Daniel as a person he can trust with leadership in his kingdom. However, the other presidents in the region are envious of Daniel. They try to find fault in all sectors under Daniel without success (verse 4). Eventually, they hatch a plan that would make the difference between good and evil, light and darkness, life and death. “We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God” (Dan. 6:5).

God’s church must stand out.

As it was with Daniel, so it is with us today. Our enemy looks for every opportunity to find fault in us as both individuals and as a church. He looks into our morals, modesty, diet, relationships, and more to find out how to antagonize our loyalty. In addition, if he finds nothing to accuse us of, he turns to affect our allegiance to God.

As followers of Christ, particularly in the Seventh-day Adventist Church, we meet opposition on every hand. However, we should remain steadfast in our faith and trust God. Sometimes it may require that we make difficult choices. When our employers demand that we work on Sabbath, or our schools hold exams and sporting events on the Sabbath, we need the faithfulness of Daniel.

In the end time, we find ourselves in the shoes of Daniel in many ways.

The church should maintain its role as the remnant institution of God (Rev. 12:17). When people bow down to worldly powers, God’s church must stand out. When people worship the dragon and praise him (Rev. 13:4), God’s true servants must make choices in favor of their faith.

In the character of Daniel, we learn that faithfulness is a quality that every Christian needs. Daniel maintained his loyalty to God even in captivity. Even though he could no longer find himself in the Jerusalem temple, he made it his tradition to pray facing the direction of the Promised Land three times “as he did aforetime” (Dan. 6:10). Even in the face of death, he stuck with the practice.

**React**

`1. Was there a way Daniel could avoid being thrown into the lions’ den? What can we do if we find ourselves in a similar situation?`

`2. What does the relationship between Daniel and King Darius teach us about faithfulness?`

_William Mutunga, Nairobi, Kenya_