---
title:  'Daniel: Our Template of Faithfulness'
date:   13/04/2018
---

**Exploration**: Isa. 11:5

**Conclude**

As we read Daniel 1 through 6, we learn that God stands with those who honor Him before anything else. Daniel is an example of how God fulfills the desires of those who have faith in Him. In Daniel and his three companions, we see that God can still find people who heed His Word even in the worst adversity. The humility, the faithfulness, and the prayerfulness of Daniel are the guiding qualities to emulate in the end time. Above all, loyalty to God’s statutes, as witnessed in the life of Daniel, is what will determine the difference between the true followers of Christ and pretenders.

**Consider**

- Listening to the song “A Shelter in the Time of Storm” by Vernon J. Charlesworth. Rewrite the lines of the verses by replacing we with I. After this revision, sing all verses of the song again.
- Writing your loyalty pledge to God. Memorize the pledge and recite it whenever you face any adversity.
- Starting a born-again campaign in your community, in which you discuss with young adults the importance of accepting Christ as a personal Savior. Recruit as many members as possible and forward the names to your church pastor for a possible baptismal exercise.
- Role-playing Daniel and the fiery furnace. With some of your Sabbath School class members, form a group and perform the play one Sabbath afternoon. Note the inspiration that you derive when you play the character of Daniel, Meshach, Shadrach, or Abednego.
- Writing a poem about how you feel when you are persecuted for your faith. Think about sharing your poem with members of your church and community on suitable occasions such as music Sabbaths.
- Forming a social media group (e.g., Facebook or Whatsapp) for Adventist young adults who will stand up for their faith at all costs. Make a personal effort to reach out to every member with encouraging words through texts, Bible quotes, or pictures.
- Running an online blog where you and your Sabbath School class members can share your faith experiences and post stories of spiritual encouragement. Occasionally, meet for a joint prayer to affirm your faith in God.

**Connect**

1. James 2:14–25; Matthew 5:5.
2. Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pp. 479–490, 539–548.