---
title:  God’s Cup of Wrath
date:   20/05/2018
---

**Evidence**: Rev. 14:6

In chapter 14 of the book of Revelation, the three angels’ messages are revealed to us in the most mesmerizing way. The eternal gospel is to be proclaimed to all who live on earth that all who inhabit this place will worship the One who made the heavens and earth.

The three angels’ messages given in Revelation 14:6–12 are some of the foundational beliefs of our church! This is especially true for all of those who are living in the last days, waiting for the second coming of Christ. It is the fulfillment of all of our hopes as believers. Furthermore, in verse 6, the word gospel actually means “good news.” This good news is not simply the announcement that God is delivering and restoring His people, it is also the announcement that He is bringing forth judgment on His enemies and the wicked nations.

Furthermore, in verse 8, the second angel says, “She has fallen! Great Babylon has fallen! She made all the people drink her wine—the strong wine of her immoral lust!” (GNT). The word fallen refers to Babylon. The Israelites referred to Babylon as a symbol of idolatry, lust, and immorality because they had previously experienced exile in Babylon.

Verses 9 and 10 declare that those who worship the beast will drink wine from God’s cup of wrath. Scripture regularly uses the symbol of the cup to represent a measured out portion of God’s anger against sin and the wicked nations. But don’t worry, there is a promise in verse 13.

The good news is that those who die in the service of the Lord will enjoy rest from their hard work. The promise goes out to all who love God and will be saved for eternal life. Those who are wicked will be unable to touch you, and God’s cup of fury will be poured out to torment the wicked.

I don’t know about you, but I don’t want to be among those who will drink from God’s cup of wrath. I want to fear God and give glory to the One who made the heavens and the earth—the same One who died on the cross for my sins. If that is what you want, then God calls for your endurance to obey His commandments and be faithful to Jesus.

**React**

`1. What does the “everlasting gospel” carried by the three angels mean?`

`2. “Babylon is a symbol of idolatry, lust, and immorality.” Discuss specifically what Babylon signifies in today’s modern context.`

`3. In what way can we as Adventists avoid the wine of God’s fury that is poured out of God’s cup of wrath (Rev. 14:10)?`

_Komal Nunfeli Swansi, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_