---
title:  Going to Share a Global Gospel
date:   21/05/2018
---

**Logos**: Rev. 14:6; 2 Pet. 1:12

**Present Truth** (Rev. 10:1; 14:6)

The messages of the three angels in Revelation 14 are the fulfillment of what was commissioned by the angel in Revelation 10. The mention of “another angel” refers the reader back to the seven angels who introduced the trumpet judgment and is a reminder of judgment. The progressive unfolding of truth is a recurring biblical theme throughout Scripture.

**The Gospel** (Matt. 24:14; Rom. 1:1)

Revelation 14:6 is the fulfillment of Matthew 24:14. The gospel is not a different gospel but the same Christ-centered message that the whole Bible is all about. The final proclamation of this gospel began at Pentecost. It includes the good news about Christ’s life, death, resurrection, and ascension to heaven.

Revelation 14:6 is the only place this word gospel appears in the book of Revelation (although the verb form is also found in Rev. 10:7).

The accompanying verb “to preach” gives special force to the importance of what is proclaimed. This is the first of three angels who proclaim God’s final message to the world. Most commentators, including non-Adventist ones, agree that this is “a final chance to repent” that is “being given the nations.”1 Thus in the overall context of Revelation, the gospel includes the good news about Christ’s second advent when He rescues His people.

**Those Who Dwell on the Earth** (Rev. 1:6; 13:8; 14:6)

The phrase “those who dwell on the earth” occurs frequently in the book of Revelation. It “functions almost as a technical expression for the wicked, namely, those who resist the gospel and persecute God’s faithful people (cf. 3:10; 6:10; 8:13; 11:10; 13:8, 14; 17:2).”2 They are those who worship the beast, whose names are “not written in the book of life” (Rev. 13:8). This picture stands in contrast to “those who dwell in heaven” (Rev. 13:6, NASB) and reign in heavenly places (cf. Rev. 1:6; 5:9, 10). This message is not for believers but is, instead, a final warning message to unbelievers.

**Global Reality** (Matt. 24:14; Rev. 10:11; 13:7, 8)

The message of the “everlasting gospel” is global in scope. The reference to “every tribe and people and tongue and nation” relates to Revelation 10:11, where John is commissioned to prophesy again “concerning many peoples and nations and tongues and kings” (NASB).

Thus this earlier commission means that there is a continuing reality for the church. This global warning comes as the sea beast is given authority “over every tribe and people and tongue and nation” when all render their allegiance to Satan to worship him (Rev. 13:7, 8, NASB).

Since Satan’s work is global in scope, in the same way the end-time gospel message is just as much a global message. Jesus through this message is warning the world about the fulfillment of Matthew 24:14, “And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come.” The combined message of the three angels, at its very core, is a special invitation for the whole world to worship the living God before it is too late.

**React**

`1. In what way can you help share the good news of the gospel?`

`2. In what ways have you grown in your understanding of truth?`

`3. How do God’s end-time people have a special message for the world?`

1. Grant R. Osbourne, Revelation, Baker Exegetical Commentary on the New Testament (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2002), p. 535.
2. Ranko Stefanovic, Revelation of Jesus Christ: Commentary on the Book of Revelation, 2nd ed. (Berrien Springs, MI: Andrews University Press, 2009), pp. 245, 451.

_Michael W. Campbell, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_