---
title:  Preparing for the End Times
date:   23/05/2018
---

**How-to**: Rom. 12:2; 2 Cor. 7:1

In Matthew 24, during the last days of Jesus’ ministry on this earth, Jesus gathered His small group of believers on the Mount of Olives to relay His last message before He returned to His father in heaven. He told them that He would be going away, but before He returned there would be different kinds of signs that would happen. Jesus told them that in order to identify the signs of His coming, they must be faithful to Him.

He foretold many others who would try to deceive them by claiming that they were sent by God. Every corner of this earth would hear of wars and fighting, but it would not be the end of the world just yet. Different natural disasters would cause pain on the earth, and the sins of the people of the earth would increase. There would be hunger and diseases that would contribute to heartaches and sorrows, but the end would not come until every person had heard the Word of God.

The signs are there to help us realize that Jesus’ coming is very soon and these are indeed the end times. How do we prepare?

Renew our minds. Our minds are channels that store information that helps us make decisions in life. Many things in this world affect us through our minds. When we renew our minds and allow the Holy Spirit to work through us, we are running in the right direction. To renew your mind and enrich your relationship with Jesus, read the Bible and the Spirit of Prophecy, which show us the signs that will happen in the end times.

Purify ourselves. In 1 Corinthians 6:19, 20, it mentions that our bodies are the temples of God, and to keep our bodies pure, we must not participate in the sins of this world by breaking the law of God. To purify our lives we need to keep the commandments of God with the help of the Holy Spirit.

Perfect holiness. When we love God, we will keep His law, because the law is holy and His will for us is nothing but the best. We cannot be completely faithful followers of God if we are not conscious of being faithful to God. To love Him and be faithful to Him, we are not to break His law.

**React**

`1. How can you stand strong in the midst of trials and temptations?`

`2. How can you live a holy life in this world?`

_Loloma Gairo, Silang Cavite, Philippines_