---
title:  God’s Picture in the Mind
date:   24/05/2018
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 14:7

People are always expecting to hear news. Citizens expect presidential addresses. Fans follow their star’s latest announcements. Rarely does the news come in the form of a command. However, Revelation 14 shares endless good news, or the eternal gospel, for each person to take heed to and follow. What is it about? Verse 7 states, “Fear God and give him glory.”

People picture God differently. Some see Him as a close Friend with whom they can joke or laugh. Others say that He is far away, judging wrongdoings and sending blessings to the holy ones and curses to the wicked. Yet others may see Him as a compassionate King who has power and uses it to help them in their great trials. Our picture of God will determine whether we decide to worship Him or to be afraid of Him.

What does it mean to fear God? Fear is not usually used as a nice word. However, the word fear in Revelation has another connotation. It stands for respect, admiration, recognition, reverence, honor, praise, and worship. This fear and exaltation has its foundation in love and thankfulness from humanity to the Hero, Creator, and Savior of all.

God has the power to do as He pleases. Through His Word, works, and nature, God reveals His choice to love and care for humanity. For that reason, to worship God is not just to attend a meeting in the church or to bow down the head. It is to bow down the heart before Him and give Him the glory and the best in terms of honor, time, resources, abilities, and service. From the giving of His Son and descriptions in His Word to the everyday miracles, God shows His desire to be with us. Even nature is a living witness of His care for the details of our lives. Seeing all that He does, there is no other response but to be thankful and return that love. The good news of Revelation 14 becomes just a reminder of our solemn duty to Him. This joy in people’s hearts to respect and reverence the One they most admire and recognize as the Sovereign of the universe has no end. Their worship is centered in completely giving their lives to His honor.

**React**

`1. How do you picture God in your mind?`

`2. How does this picture help you to honor Him?`

_Francis Gabriela Correa Carrión, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_