---
title:  “I Am With You Always”
date:   25/05/2018
---

**Exploration**: Matt. 28:19, 20

**Conclude**

As time grows short on earth, we hear of wars, we see disasters and violence, and we may, at times, feel afraid. But Jesus assures us that we are not to be afraid but, rather, to draw closer and closer to Him. Jesus is not only our Rescuer; in the end, He is also our Judge, so we do not need to be afraid. Jesus calls us to action rather than to fear—to care for those who are disadvantaged and to reach out to those who have not heard of His plan to save us. For Christians, the end-time events are not to be terrifying days but days of joyful anticipation knowing that Jesus will come soon to take us away from this sinful world of sorrow to live forever with Him and to wipe every tear from our eyes. He will be with us always, even to the end. So let us have confidence in Him and praise Him for His wonderful rescue plan for us.

**Consider**

- Listening to the song “How Great Is Our God,” by Chris Tomlin, and reflecting on God’s mercy in His plan of salvation.
- Writing a prayer praising God for each of His blessings to you, especially the gift of salvation. Be specific.
- Reading blogs by missionaries who share Jesus with others around the world. Investigate ways that you can become involved through fund-raising for specific projects, short-term mission work, praying for the missionaries, or sending care packages to student missionaries.
- Volunteering to share the gospel either locally in the church, at an evangelistic series, through Bible studies, or internationally as a missionary.
- Making a card for a shut-in or a person in a nursing home. Focus on sharing with the person a message of God’s love for him or her.
- Painting a picture depicting the three angels of Revelation. Consider including images of their messages in the picture and how different cultures might envision the angels. Share it in Sabbath School.
- Writing a poem or a song giving glory to God for His creation. Consider sharing the poem or song in Sabbath School or church.

**Connect**

1. Matthew 25:31–46; John 5:22–30; 14:1–6.
2. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chapter 86, “Go Teach All Nations”; The Great Controversy, chapter 38, “The Final Warning.”
3. Derek Morris, The Radical Teachings of Jesus, chapter 6, “What Jesus Taught About the Judgment.”

_Heidi Campbell, Silang, Cavite, Philippines_