---
title:  Job’s Redeemer
date:   10/12/2016
---

### Job’s Redeemer


### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON:
Job 19:25–27; John 1:1–14; Job 10:4, 5; Luke 2:11; Galatians 4:19; Luke 9:22.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE:</p>
> “He [Jesus] suffered the things we should have suffered. He took on himself the pain that should have been ours. But we thought God was punishing him. We thought God was wounding him and making him suffer” (Isaiah 53:4, NIrV).

THE LORD SUDDENLY APPEARS TO JOB in chapter 38. God’s appearance is the climax or the high point of the book of Job. The climax or high point is the most exciting and powerful part of a story. It comes right before the story ends. God shows Himself to Job in a powerful and miraculous way. And this leads Job to confess and repent (to show sorrow for his sins). The Lord then rebukes (scolds) Job’s three friends for their wrong words. And Job prays for them. “The Lord made him [Job] successful again. He [God] gave him [Job] twice as much as he had before” (Job 42:10, NIrV), and Job lives a long and full life afterward.

There is something unsatisfactory about the story and how it ends. God and Satan argue in heaven and battle it out here on earth in the life and flesh of poor Job. It just does not seem fair and right that Job would be an innocent victim in this war while the Lord remains in heaven and simply watches it. 

There must be more to the story. And there is. It is shown, many centuries later, in Jesus and His death on the cross. In Jesus alone we find wonderful and comforting answers to the questions that the book of Job does not answer fully.

DEFINITIONS

1.	**Redeemer**—a person who buys back something. Jesus bought our lives with His blood when He paid the price for our sins on the cross.