---
title:  MY REDEEMER (SAVIOR) LIVES
date:   11/12/2016
---

### MY REDEEMER (SAVIOR) LIVES

(Job 19:25–27)

When God appears to Job in chapter 38, He makes Himself known to Job as the Creator, who “ ‘tells the rain where it should fall,’ ” and the One who makes “ ‘paths for the thunderstorms’ ” . . . and who brings “ ‘water to places where no one lives’ ” (Job 38:25, 26, NIrV). But our Lord is not only the Creator. He has another important title and job too.

`Read Job 19:25–27. What do these words teach us about Job’s hope of salvation?` 

With these famous verses, Job shows that he has some knowledge of the Redeemer (Savior). He knows that people die but that there is hope beyond the grave. And this hope is found in the Redeemer, who is to come to the earth one day. 

These words of Job point to what is the most important truth in the Bible: God as our Redeemer. Yes, God is our Creator. But we live in a world of sin, in a world of sinners, who are doomed to die eternally in their sins. So we need more than a Creator. We need a Redeemer too. And that is exactly who our God is: He is both our Creator and our Redeemer (read Isaiah 48:13–17). And it is from Him in both those jobs (Creator and Redeemer) that we have the great hope of eternal life.

`Read John 1:1–14. In these verses, how does John tie together Jesus as Creator with Jesus as our Redeemer?` 

John 1:1 clearly hints at or brings to mind Genesis 1:1, which points to God as Creator. And John 1:10–12 shows a connection between Jesus as Creator and His work as Redeemer. “The Word [Jesus] was in the world that was made through him. . . . But his own people did not accept him. Some people did accept him. They believed in his name. He [Jesus] gave them the right to become children of God” (John 1:10–12, NIrV). It is because Jesus is the Creator that He can be our Redeemer too. 

`If we had only a Creator but no Redeemer, what hope would we have? What does your answer say about why Jesus as Redeemer is so important to us?` 