---
title:  THE SON OF MAN
date:   12/12/2016
---

### THE SON OF MAN

(Job 10:4, 5)

In the earliest chapters of Job, we are given a quick view of just how real the great controversy (war between Christ and Satan) is. As we know, it is a battle that starts in heaven. Later, it comes to the earth (read Revelation 12:7–12). In the book of Job we find that same theme: a war in heaven that comes to earth. Unhappily, for Job, that war on earth centers on him.

`Read Job 10:4, 5. What is Job’s complaint? And what point does he make?`

Job’s point is simple. You are God, the Ruler of the universe, the Creator. How can You know what it is like to be a human, to suffer the things that we suffer? 

`Read Luke 2:11; John 1:14; Luke 19:10; Matthew 4:2; 1 Timothy 2:5; and Hebrews 4:15. How do these verses answer Job’s complaint?` 

Job’s complaint is that God is not a human and for that reason could not know human suffering. But God answers these charges2 fully and completely when Jesus comes into the world as a human. Jesus never loses His divine (godly) nature. But He is also fully human. And while in human form, He knows what it is like to suffer and struggle, just as Job and all humans do. In fact, all through the Gospels,3  we read about how real Jesus is in His human form and the sufferings that He went through as a human. So Jesus answers Job’s complaint.

“It was not make-believe [not real] human form that Christ took upon Himself. He took human nature and lived human nature. . . . He was made flesh, and He was made in the likeness of sinful flesh.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 5, page 1124. 

`Think what it means that Jesus accepted human nature. What should this tell you about how closely He can relate to you in any of the struggles that you are facing right now?`

##### DEFINITIONS

2. **charges**—words that blame someone for wrongdoing.
3. **Gospels**—the first four books of the New Testament: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.