---
title:  THE DEATH OF CHRIST
date:   13/12/2016
---

### THE DEATH OF CHRIST

(1 John 2:6)

`Read 1 John 2:6 and Galatians 4:19. What do these verses tell us about Jesus and how we are to think about Him?` 

Without question, Jesus is the model Man. His life—His character (thoughts; feelings; actions)—is the example that all who follow Him should copy with the help of God’s grace (godly power and strength). Jesus is the only perfect example we have of how to live the kind of life to which God calls us.

Still, Jesus does not come to this earth just to give us an example. Our situation as sinners called for more than just character growth. Yes, changing our characters and forming us into His image is important work for Jesus as our Redeemer. But we need more than that. We need a Substitute, Someone to pay the price for our sins. Jesus came not just to live a perfect life as an example to us all. He came also to die the death that we deserve so that His perfect life can be given to us as our own.

`Read Mark 8:31; Luke 9:22; Luke 24:7; and Galatians 2:21. What do these verses teach us about why Christ’s death for us is necessary?` 

Obedience to the law is important. But it does not save sinners. For this reason, Christ had to die for us. “So is the law opposed to God’s promises? Certainly not! What if a law had been given that could give life? Then people could become right with God by obeying the law” (Galatians 3:21, NIrV). If any law could save a sinner, it would be God’s. But even that law cannot save us. Only the perfect life of our perfect Example, Jesus, could save us. And so Christ came to offer Himself as “one sacrifice for sins forever” (Hebrews 10:12, NKJV).

`How does your own record of law keeping show you why you need a Substitute?`