---
title:  THE SUFFERINGS OF THE SON OF MAN (JESUS)
date:   14/12/2016
---

### THE SUFFERINGS OF THE SON OF MAN (JESUS)

(Isaiah 53:1–6)

`Read Isaiah 53:1–6. What do these verses tell us about the sufferings of the Lord on the cross?`

Isaiah 53:4 says that Jesus carried (accepted) our griefs and sorrows. That must include Job’s griefs and sorrows too. And not just Job’s alone but the whole world’s also. It was for the sin of all humans who ever lived that Jesus died on the cross.

Only at the cross can we better understand the book of Job. Here we have the same God who shows Himself to Job. He is the God who teaches the eagle to fly. He is the God who sets all the atoms working together for the good of all humans. How He suffered more than any human, even Job, ever suffered or could suffer! The griefs and sorrows that each one of us knows, He accepted them all together. No one, then, can lecture4 God on suffering, not when He as a human carries in Himself the full load of all the suffering that sin has spread around the world. We know only our own private griefs, only our own private sorrows. But at the cross, Jesus experienced them all.

God asks Job, “ ‘Do you know the laws that govern [rule] the heavens? Can you rule over the earth the way I do?’ ” (Job 38:33, NIrV). God becomes more amazing (wonderful) when we understand that He created the “ ‘laws that govern the heavens.’ ” And He also took upon Himself human form, and as a human He dies so that He “could destroy the one who rules over the kingdom of death. I’m [I am] talking about the devil” (Hebrews 2:14, NIrV).  

The book of Job makes more sense with the Cross than it does without it. The Cross answers many questions the book of Job leaves unanswered. And the biggest question of all deals with how fair it is for God to be up in heaven while Job is forced to suffer in order to help deny Satan’s charges. The Cross shows that our Lord voluntarily suffered so much worse than any of us could in order to give us the hope of salvation. 

Job sees God as Creator. After the Cross, we see Him as Creator and Redeemer. More exactly, we see Him as the Creator who became our Redeemer (Philippians 2:6–8). And to do that, Jesus had to suffer from sin in ways that no human being, Job included, would or could ever suffer. So, like Job, what can we do but say: “I hate myself. I’m [I am] really sorry for what I said about you. That’s [that is] why I’m [I am] sitting in dust and ashes” (Job 42:6, NIrV)?

###### DEFINITIONS

4. **lecture**—to give a talk, or a series of talks, that teaches a lesson or subject.