---
title:  SATAN UNMASKED (EXPOSED)
date:   15/12/2016
---

### SATAN UNMASKED (EXPOSED)

(John 12:30–32)

`Read John 12:30–32. What is Jesus saying will happen to Satan as a result of the Cross and the great controversy?`

Ellen G. White in The Great Controversy talks about the death of Jesus on the cross. Then she explains the powerful influence His death has in heaven and for the watching universe. “Satan’s lying charges against God’s character and government appeared in their true light. Satan had accused God of glorifying [honoring and praising] Himself by requiring surrender and obedience from His people. Satan also had claimed that the Creator required self-denial from all others. But He Himself practiced no self-denial and made no sacrifice. Now angels and heavenly beings could see that it was love that encouraged the Ruler of the universe to make the greatest sacrifice to save all sinners. It was God ‘bringing the world back to Himself through Christ.’ 2 Corinthians 5:19, NIrV. It was seen also that Lucifer had opened the door for the entrance of sin by his desire for glory [praise] and his desire to rule over God. Christ had, in order to destroy sin, humbled Himself and become obedient unto death.”—Adapted from The Great Controversy, page 502. 

`Read 2 Corinthians 5:19. How does Christ’s death bring the fallen world back to God?` 

The world had fallen into sin, into rebellion (war against God). It had left itself open to the evil plans of Satan as we understand so clearly in the book of Job. But Jesus volunteered to become a human while never losing His nature as God. While so doing, He made an unbreakable bond between heaven and earth. And with His death, He guaranteed the final destruction and removal of sin and Satan. At the cross, Jesus paid the legal price for sin, bringing the fallen world back to God. We are sinners. Our sins are punishable by death. But by faith we can have the promise of eternal life in Jesus.

`Whatever sins you have done, Jesus paid the full price for them at the cross. Why should this amazing (wonderful) truth change your life and cause you to want to live in obedience to Him?`