---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   16/12/2016
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT:

“ ‘ “Now it is time for the world to be judged,” ’ Jesus said. ‘ “Now the prince of this world [Satan] will be thrown out. But I am going to be lifted up from the earth. When I am, I will bring all people to myself.” He said this to show them how he was going to die’ (John 12:31–33, NIrV). This is the crisis of the world. Jesus thought to Himself, ‘If I become the sacrifice for the sins of men, the world will be lighted up. Satan’s hold upon the souls of men will be broken. The spoiled image of God will be restored [made new; brought back] in humans. And a family of believing saints finally will receive the heavenly home.’ This newness is the result of Christ’s death. The Saviour is lost in deep thought over the glorious [beautiful; wonderful] scene that appeared before Him in the near future. He sees the cross, the cruel cross, with all its horrors. But it is lighted up with glory [beauty and praise]. 

“But the work of human salvation is not all that is done by the cross. The love of God is shown to the universe. The prince of this world is thrown out. The charges that Satan has brought against God are proven false. The stain that Satan has thrown upon heaven is forever removed. Angels and humans are attracted to the Redeemer.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pages 625, 626.

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`What other ways can you think of that show how the life and death of Jesus answered questions that the book of Job left unanswered?`

`Think over what the Cross teaches us about the character of God. This is especially true when we realize that the One who created us was the One who died for us on the cross. Why should this give us so much hope and comfort, no matter what troubles we are now facing? How can this wonderful truth teach us to trust in God and in His goodness? (Read Romans 8:32.)`

`The book of Job shows that the great controversy between Christ and Satan has been going on both in heaven and on the earth itself. Imagine what it must have been like for angels, who knew Jesus only in His heavenly glory (great honor and praise), to see Him go through what He did on the cross. How can thinking deeply about this amazing idea help us to better appreciate what we have been given in Jesus?`
