---
title:  Rules for War
date:   01/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Lesson:

Daniel 10:1–14; Revelation 13:1–8; Job 1:1–12; John 12:31; Mark 6:5.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “The person who keeps on sinning belongs to the devil. The devil has sinned from the beginning. But the Son of God came to destroy the works of the devil” (1 John 3:8, NLV).

1 Kings 18:19–40 is a powerful story. This story shows us what the worldwide war between God and Satan is all about. In this story, Elijah goes to Mount Carmel to help God win a fight against evil. Here, God wins a contest against the foreign gods that King Ahab and Queen Jezebel worship. Who were these gods? Were they make believe? Behind these “gods” that the non-Jews worshiped was something else.

The Bible gives the answer: “The people sacrificed [gave gifts] to those false gods, not to God. They hadn’t known [didn’t know] anything about those false gods. Those gods were new to them. Their people of long ago didn’t worship them” (Deuteronomy 32:17, NIrV). Paul explains, “When food is sacrificed [offered] to idols, it is an offering to demons, not to God. And I don’t want you to share anything with demons” (1 Corinthians 10:20, ERV).

So, the false “gods” that non-Jews worshiped were really demons. This information helps us to understand better the worldwide war between God and Satan and the problem with evil.