---
title:  The Angel Who Was Delayed
date:   02/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

`Read Daniel 10:1–14. Pay special attention to verses 12, 13. What do these verses teach us about the worldwide war between God and Satan? The angel tells Daniel that “the prince of Persia opposed [fought against] me for 21 days” (Daniel 10:13, NIrV). What does the angel mean when he says “opposed” or fought against?`

How can anyone fight against an angel from God for three whole weeks?! God is all-powerful. He chose to answer Daniel right away. God had the power to make an angel appear to Daniel right away, too. But the angel from God met with trouble. The prince of Persia fought against him for three whole weeks. How is that possible?

“For three weeks, the angel Gabriel fought against evil powers. These evil angels tried to stop God’s work with King Cyrus. . . . God did everything He could do to help His people. God won the fight. God stopped the evil angels from doing anything bad to His people during the time of King Cyrus and during the time his son Cambyses was in control.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 572, adapted.

This fight between Gabriel and the evil angels happened because God wasn’t using all His power to stop it. Why not? God must allow Satan to be free to work. At the same time, God limits Satan’s actions. So, this story shows us that in the worldwide war between God and Satan there are rules. God made the rules. We will name these rules the rules for war. These rules say what Satan can and can’t do.

As we already saw, God does everything because of love. Love is the foundation of His government. That is why God puts limits on the things Satan can and can’t do. These ideas help us better understand the worldwide war between God and Satan.

`Think of a time when you worked with a difficult person, whose heart was filled with anger or hate. Maybe this person was mean and nasty to you. But you showed them love. What did this experience teach you about the limits of power and what you can and can’t do as a Christian?`