---
title:  The Dragon In The Book Of Revelation
date:   03/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The book of Revelation tells us more about the powers in the worldwide war between God and Satan. In this war, the devil is the same as the big red dragon who fights against God. The dragon “fooled [tried to trick] the whole world [everyone on earth] (Revelation 12:9, NLV).

`Read Revelation 13:1–8. What do these verses teach us about how much control the dragon has?`

As we saw, the dragon (Satan) wars against God (Revelation 12:7–9) and His servants (read Revelation 12:1–6 for an example). The dragon is the power behind the kings who hurt God’s people all through history.

The dragon shares his control with the wild animal from the sea. This wild animal is a symbol of a kingdom. The Bible says, “The dragon gave this wild animal his own power and his own throne as king” (Revelation 13:2, NLV; compare with Revelation 13:5; Revelation 17:13, 14). The wild animal from the sea “was given a mouth which spoke words full of pride and it spoke very bad things against the Lord. It was given much power for forty-two months” (Revelation 13:5, NLV).

So, Satan (the dragon) gives power and control to a wild animal (a word picture for a religious kingdom on this earth). The wild animal steals worship that belongs to God. The wild animal lies about God and wars against Him. The wild animal also hurts God’s people for hundreds of years during the Dark Ages. The dragon gives this worldwide power control over the earth. The dragon stole this power from God.

But God puts limits on Satan and the wild animal power. That’s why the Bible says, “ ‘So be happy, you heavens and all who live there! But it will be terrible for the earth and the sea, because the devil has come down to you! He is filled with anger. He knows that he does not have much time’ ” (Revelation 12:12, ICB).

Satan “knows his time is short” (Revelation 12:12, NIrV). The happenings in the book of Revelation show certain limits to Satan’s power (read Revelation 12:14; Revelation 13:5). In the end, God wins. Then “God will wipe every tear from their eyes. No one will die. No one will ever [anymore] cry or be sad for any reason. No one will ever have trouble. The old things are gone” (Revelation 21:4, WE).