---
title:  Job
date:   04/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The book of Job gives us some interesting information about the worldwide war between God and Satan.

`Read Job 1:1–12 and Job 2:1–7. What important rules about the worldwide war between God and Satan do we read about in these verses?`

We can learn many important things from these verses. First, a meeting is happening in heaven between God and Satan. Angels and people from other planets are also at the meeting.

Second, God asks Satan what he thinks about Job. That question tells us that Satan is arguing with God about something. Why does God ask Satan this question? We understand why God asks the question when we learn more about what Satan is arguing with God about.

Third, God announces that Job is holy and obeys God. Satan says that Job obeys God because God protects him. Satan’s words are lies about Job and God (compare with Revelation 12:10; Zechariah 3).

Fourth, Satan says that God’s protection of Job isn’t fair. Satan says this protection stops him from showing everyone in heaven that he is right that God does not give everyone free choice. Satan’s words show us that God puts limits on Satan (the rules for war), and that Satan tried to hurt Job.

God answers Satan at the meeting in heaven. God allows Satan time to show that what he says about Him is correct. Satan is allowed to give Job a test. But there are limits to the things Satan can do to Job. God gives Satan permission to destroy everything Job owns. But Satan must not hurt Job (Job 1:12). Later, after Satan says that Job cares about no one but himself, God allows Satan to hurt Job. But Satan must not kill Job (Job 2:3–6).

Satan causes terrible troubles and disasters to happen to Job and his family. Each time something bad happens, Job continues to bless God’s name (Job 1:20–22; Job 2:9, 10). When Job blesses God, he shows that Satan’s words against God are lies.

We learn many things from this story. We learn that there are rules for fighting in the worldwide war between God and Satan. There are limits, too, to what Satan can do. God also has limits. His love limits what He may do to show that He is innocent and to show that Satan is guilty.