---
title:  The One Who Controls This Earth For A Short Time
date:   05/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

As we saw already, God gives Satan and his followers control over some of the things that happen on this earth. God allows Satan this control for a short time. The rules for war limit Satan’s control.

The rules for war limit both Satan’s actions and God’s. God is limited for a time in the way that He can solve the problem of evil that Satan causes and controls. The Lord agreed to follow the rules for war. The Lord can’t break His promises. So, because of the rules, the Lord must permit Satan some limited control of the earth for a short time.

`Read John 12:31; John 14:30; John 16:11; 2 Corinthians 4:4; and Luke 4:6. What do these verses teach about Satan’s control over this earth?`

The New Testament tells us about the fight between two kingdoms: the kingdom of light and the kingdom of the dark. Satan controls the kingdom of the dark. Part of Jesus’ job is to destroy Satan’s kingdom: “The person who keeps on sinning belongs to the devil. The devil has sinned from the beginning. But the Son of God came to destroy the works of the devil” (1 John 3:8, NLV).

Yes, Jesus came to destroy Satan’s works. At the same time, the rules for war limit what God can do. God must honor the rules of His government. The rules that limit God include (1) the freedom God gives to everyone to decide and (2) the rules for war that God and Satan agreed to. For now, these rules are secret. As humans, we don’t know fully what these rules are. What we do know is that the rules that limit God’s actions have a big part in what God can do to reduce and/or destroy evil on this earth. That is why many people doubt God or His love. So, we need to understand that a worldwide war between God and Satan is being fought. We also must understand that God puts limits on how He solves the problem of evil. Then we can better understand why things are the way they are right now.

`Jesus says that Satan is the “king” of this earth, at least for now. How does this information help us understand the evil that is on this earth now? We should be happy knowing that Satan’s control will end soon!`