---
title:  Limits And Rules
date:   06/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

The worldwide war between Christ and Satan is a fight about God’s love and who He is. Satan started the fight when He said God and His government weren’t good or fair. The worldwide war between Christ and Satan is the same as there being a court case in heaven.

This court case can’t be solved with might or strength. Satan and God must offer proof to show who is correct.

If someone accuses a person in power of crimes, the best (and maybe only) way to show that the person is innocent is to hold a trial. This trial must be fair.

How do all these ideas help us better understand the worldwide war between God and Satan? Let us answer this question with another question. If God makes a promise, will He break it? Of course not! So, whatever rules God agrees to will limit His actions in the future.

`Read Mark 6:5 and Mark 9:29. What do these verses show us about how God’s actions are connected to our prayers and our faith?`

In both verses in Mark, we see some limits or rules for war. Our prayers and faith can give God permission to do certain things that He couldn’t do if we didn’t ask. Every day we can see proof that prayer changes things on this earth. But we shouldn’t think that prayer and faith are the only things that give God permission to act. There may be other things we don’t know about.

`Read Romans 8:18 and Revelation 21:3, 4. We don’t know many things. How do these verses give you hope that we can trust that God knows and wants what is best for us anyway?`