---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   07/03/2025
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “The Power of Satan,” pages 341–347, in Testimonies for the Church, volume 1.

“Sinners are Satan’s prisoners. They are under his control because they broke God’s law. Jesus came to save sinners from Satan. As sinners, we want to follow Satan’s advice. We can’t stand against Satan’s power without Jesus. Jesus must live in our hearts. Jesus must control our feelings and give us strength. Satan goes everywhere on the earth. He doesn’t sleep for a moment. He doesn’t want to lose a chance to destroy people. God’s people must understand this important Bible truth. If we do, we may escape Satan’s traps. Satan is getting his lies and tricks ready. His final fight against God’s people will be to trick them into not knowing who he really is. 2 Corinthians 11:14 says we shouldn’t be surprised that ‘the devil makes himself look like [the same as] an angel of light.’ [NLV]. Some people are fooled and tricked into believing that Satan isn’t real. While they believe this lie, Satan makes them his prisoners. Then Satan uses them to do his work. Satan knows better than God’s people that they can have much power over him when Jesus gives them strength. When we ask Jesus for help, Jesus will give us the strength to say no to Satan. Then the weakest Christian can win the fight against Satan and all his followers. Satan is too sneaky to appear to us in person and try to get us to sin against God. If Satan did that, the Christian would see the danger he was in. So, Satan comes to us in a way that is very sneaky. He uses Christians who don’t obey God to lead God’s loyal followers away from Him.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 1, page 341, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`We are Satan’s prisoners. What does that mean? Can Satan do anything he wants to us? How is our being Satan’s prisoners connected with the rules for war in the worldwide war between God and Satan?`

`Why does God give Satan any control in the worldwide war between good and evil? What does God’s decision tell us about how He chooses to answer Satan’s lies?`

`What can you say to help someone who doesn’t believe that Satan is real?`