---
title:  Salvation and the End Time
date:   21/04/2018
---

> <p></p>
> “This is love: not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins” (1 John 4:10, NIV).

**Introduction**: John 10:28; Phil. 2:5–8

**Love and Sacrifice**

Imagine this: Your best friend is dying. As you sit by her hospital bed clutching her hand, you try to lift her spirits, but tears are streaming down both of your faces.

During a moment of silence, she softly asks, “Will you take my babies? Will you do this for me?”*

Is the love you have for her deep enough that you would make that sacrifice of raising her children as your own?

What if she needed a heart transplant instead and you were the perfect match? Would you give her your heart so she could live and raise her own children?

We live in a world filled with more violence, immorality, and suffering than ever before. People are seeking comfort and hope from the perils and deceptions of the last days—comfort and hope that Christianity can provide. But to an unbelieving world, what Christians can or cannot do often crowds out what Jesus taught. And for those who pause long enough to consider what He actually taught, many forget the two most important lessons: love and sacrifice.

Jesus not only taught love and sacrifice, He embodied it. While other religions may have their wise men and women who taught great stuff, Christianity has a God who was willing to degrade Himself to become human. Not only that, He had the full knowledge that His life on earth would culminate with being rejected and despised by the masses and that He would die the most excruciating death known to humankind at that time.

And He did all that just so that we can spend all of eternity with God. He paid the penalty for the disobedience of our first parents so that the human race could be saved. It is through the ultimate sacrifice of His death on the cross and His subsequent resurrection and ministry in heaven that we are saved from condemnation.

Christianity is about seeking forgiveness from God and accepting that what Jesus has done for us has earned us that forgiveness. It’s not about what we can or cannot do.

And in essence, Jesus didn’t simply agree to raise His best friend’s children as His own; He agreed to give up His own life so that His best friend can live.

<sup>* Valerie Edwards, “ ‘ Will You Take My Babies?’ Dying Mother’s Heart-Breaking Plea for Her Best Friend to Take in Her Six Children After Her Partner ‘ Left Her When She Was Diagnosed With Cancer,’ ” Daily Mail.com, June 5, 2016, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3626388/Dying-mother -begs-friend-six-children-losing-battle-breast-cancer.html.</sup>

_Rislyn Soo, Wahroonga, New South Wales, Australia_