---
title:  The Miniseries of Salvation
date:   22/04/2018
---

**Evidence**: Exod. 34:6, 7

One of the most interesting texts in the lesson this week is the description of God’s love in Exodus 34:6, 7. The text is part of a larger story in which God restores the tables of stone that were destroyed by Moses out of disappointment over the apostasy of the Israelites (Exodus 32).

Descriptions of God’s love are abundant in all parts of the Bible. But the description in Exodus 34 is given after one of the harshest circumstances ever recorded in the Bible. The Israelites were openly worshiping another god while God was meeting with Moses on Mount Sinai (Exod. 32:17–19). The Ten Commandments, written in stone, the symbol of His authority, mercy, and power, were given to Moses (Exod. 31:18; 20:1–21). However, just a moment later that symbol was destroyed because the Israelites were worshiping another god.

Worse, the idol worship was sanctioned by Moses’ own brother, Aaron (Exod. 32:21, 22). The Israelites were openly rebelling against God while His presence was in one of the closest proximities ever recorded in the Old Testament.

Between the story of Israel’s rebellion (Exodus 32) and God’s renewed love for them in Exodus 34, Exodus records the story of Moses standing before God as a mediator on behalf of the people (Exod. 32:30–32) and receiving God’s grace (Exod. 33:12, 13). Moses continually refers to himself as “ us.” The expression of Moses as mediator closely resembles the role of Jesus for humanity as well. Likewise, it is the merit of Jesus that makes us acceptable in the presence of the Father.

This is the context in which God expresses His unfailing love as recorded in Exodus 34:6, 7. It began with a severe rebellion against God. But then, mediated by someone who found favor with God, God’s love to Israel was affirmed. The love that God had for the Israelites was not only endless, it was reliable. He not only loves but is willing to forgive the sins committed by His people.

The story in Exodus 32–34 is like a mini version of the whole plan of salvation, which is the main theme of the Bible. A painful rebellion against a loving God resulted in a broken relationship between the Creator and His creation However, through the presence of a Mediator who found favor with God, the broken relationship is restored.

**React**

`How do you see the role of Jesus as Mediator to be relevant to your own personal relationship with God?`

_Lerie Paculanang, Singapore, Singapore_