---
title:  The Everlasting
date:   23/04/2018
---

**Logos**: Ps. 143:8; John 14:9; 16:8–13; Eph. 1:4, 5; Phil. 2:5–8

There is this tendency among some Christians to compartmentalize the meaning of the sacrifice on the cross and the message of the last days. Somehow, it seems Jesus’ death on the cross has nothing to do with what Jesus will do at His second coming. However, a more careful examination of the Bible leads us to realize that the last days are all about what happened on the cross and vice versa. In order for us to understand the relationship between salvation and the last days, however, we have to reconstruct a few other concepts in the Bible to see how salvation and the last days are interconnected.

**Reconstruction No. 1: God’s Love Is Everlasting**

The God of the Old Testament is often described as a God whose interest is more in inflicting as much punishment as possible on His subjects. However, a closer look at Scripture reveals that the God of the Old Testament is full of compassion and love toward His people (Exod. 34:6, 7). Further, His love is unfailing (Ps. 143:8, NIV), and His plan is to see us far away from harm (Jer. 29:11).

Such descriptions are what you would expect of a loving father. Jesus mentioned that these characteristics of a loving father were precisely what He was trying to show His disciples that God is all about (John 14:9). Therefore, the Father’s love remains the same in both the Old and the New Testaments. This gives us our first construct: God’s love is everlasting.

**Reconstruction No. 2: Salvation in Christ Is Everlasting**

John describes Jesus as the Word, who has been since the beginning of time (John 1:1–3). While there may be many aspects to what John means in this text, one thing that is apparent is that John recognizes the existence of Jesus as going beyond the limits of our time. Even more important is the fact that this infinite Being became flesh (John 1:14).

Jesus came in the flesh to fulfill the plan of salvation for humanity (Phil. 2:5–8). By becoming human, Jesus reconnected heaven and earth, the Creator with His creation. Through His mission He eliminated the sin that separated God from humanity. This reconnection established by a Being who is not limited by time forever guarantees salvation to all who will receive it. In other words, salvation in Christ is everlasting because nothing can ever separate us from the love that God has given us sinful beings, not even death (Rom. 8:38, 39).

**Reconstruction No. 3: The Presence of the Holy Spirit Is Universal**

The everlasting love of the Father and the everlasting salvation that Jesus has given us are then finalized in the presence of the Holy Spirit. As Jesus told His disciples that He would depart one day, He promised them that another Comforter would come (John 16:7–13). This Comforter would not be limited by space and, as such, would facilitate the spread of the God’s everlasting love to the whole world (Acts 1:8).

**Assembling It All Together**

We must now answer the question, “When will humanity finally embrace ‘the limitless’?” The answer is in the Bible message of the last days. The everlasting gospel carried by the angels of Revelation 14:6–11 is none other than the message of good news—that a God of everlasting love has given us a chance at everlasting life (Eph. 1:4, 5). This message is carried universally to all people so that the day will come when there will be no more separation between God and His creation. The message of the last days is necessary to proclaim God’s everlasting love and salvation to all.

**React**

`Imagining something everlasting is quite challenging with our human limitations. How best can we describe the everlasting love of God to people who do not know Jesus, let alone His everlasting salvation?`

_Bayu Kaumpungan, Singapore, Singapore_