---
title:  For the Love of God
date:   24/04/2018
---

**Testimony**: Ps. 143:8; John 16:8–13; Phil. 2:5–8

“In order to fully realize the value of salvation, it is necessary to understand what it cost. In consequence of limited ideas of the sufferings of Christ, many place a low estimate upon the great work of the atonement. The glorious plan of man’s salvation was brought about through the infinite love of God the Father.”1

“We are not our own. We do not belong to ourselves. But we have been purchased with a dear price. We have cost an immense sum, even the suffering and death of the Son of God.”2

“There are many whose hearts are aching under a load of care because they seek to reach the world’s standard. . . . The continual worry is wearing out the life forces. Our Lord desires them to lay aside this yoke of bondage. . . . He bids them seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and His promise is that all things needful to them for this life shall be added. Worry is blind, and cannot discern the future; but Jesus sees the end from the beginning. In every difficulty He has His way prepared to bring relief. Our heavenly Father has a thousand ways to provide for us, of which we know nothing. Those who accept the one principle of making the service and honor of God supreme will find perplexities vanish, and a plain path before their feet.”3

“Not by painful struggles or wearisome toil, not by gift or sacrifice, is righteousness obtained; but it is freely given to every soul who hungers and thirsts to receive it.”4

“None are so sinful that they cannot find strength, purity, and righteousness in Jesus, who died for them.”5

“God takes men as they are. . . . They are not chosen because they are perfect, but notwithstanding their imperfections, that through the knowledge and practice of the truth, through the grace of Christ, they may become transformed into His image.”6

**React**

`No matter how bad your day, month, or years have been, are you able to see some glimmer of how God was always there for you? Elaborate.`

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 2, p. 200.</sup>
<sup>2. Ellen G. White, “Christian Temperance,” Signs of the Times, September 18, 1879, par. 2.</sup>
<sup>3. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 330.</sup>
<sup>4. Ellen G. White, Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, p. 18.</sup>
<sup>5. Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, p. 53. 6. White, The Desire of Ages, p. 294.</sup>

_Faith Toh, Singapore, Singapore_