---
title:  How to Know God’s Love
date:   25/04/2018
---

**How-to**: Ps. 103:10–12

Every Christian knows the love of God . . . don’t they? What about you? Do you believe that God loves you? Jonathan Edwards said, “There is a difference between having a rational judgment that honey is sweet, and having a sense of its sweetness.”1 You can know that honey is sweet because someone told you, but you will never really know its sweetness until you’ve tasted it for yourself.

Likewise, you can know that God loves you because someone told you, but you won’t really know God’s love until you’ve tasted His love for yourself. Here are two things you can do to begin to taste God’s love for yourself:

Be dissatisfi ed with your current spiritual involvement. As A. W. Tozer says, “We have been snared in the coils of a spurious logic which insists that if we have found Him, we need no more seek Him. . . . In the midst of this great chill there are some who will not be content with shallow logic. They want to taste, to touch with their hearts the wonder that is God. I want deliberately to encourage this mighty longing after God.” 2 Choose to continually pursue a deeper experience, a clearer glimpse of the love of God and the patience of Christ.

Pray to be pruned. Jesus said, “ ‘I am the true vine, and my Father is the gardener. He cuts off every branch in me that bears no fruit, while every branch that does bear fruit he prunes so that it will be even more fruitful’ ” (John 15:1, 2, NIV). Ask God to search all of you: your thoughts, attitude, words, actions, priorities, responsibilities, relationships, hobbies, job, and everything you do or hold dear. Then ask Him to prune the areas that are not bearing fruit.

Pruning protects our hearts from independence and pride, allowing us to refocus on abiding in the Vine. It removes the distractions that prevent us from abiding in Christ. God becomes our wonderful obsession, and the first commandment of loving God is repositioned in its proper, primary place.

**React**

`What are you doing in your life right now? Why are you doing it? Are you secure in your identity as one loved by God and as a lover of God?`

<sup>1. Jonathan Edwards, “ A Divine and Supernatural Light, Immediately Imparted to the Soul by the Spirit of God, Shown to Be Both Scriptural and Rational Doctrine,” accessed March 21, 2017, https://www.monergism.com/thethreshold/articles/onsite/edwards_light.html.</sup>
<sup>2. A. W. Tozer, The Pursuit of God, quoted in Colin Smith, “To Experience God’s Love,” The Gospel Coalition, April 21, 2014, https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/article/to-experience-gods-love.</sup>

_Jimmy Quek, Singapore, Singapore_