---
title:  Going to Hell?
date:   26/04/2018
---

**Opinion**: Eph. 1:4, 5

“You are going to hell,” the girl told me matter-of-factly. “Unless, of course, you start coming to church.”

I stared at her, incredulous and slightly offended. She had approached me while I was waiting for my bus at the station. All smiles, she struck me as warm and friendly—until she opened her mouth. She followed up her statement with others that contained the words sin, love, sacrifice, Jesus, and more; but by then, I had stopped listening to her. In fact, I just wanted her to go away.

When I met the girl, I had not yet been introduced to Christianity, but I led what I thought was a “good” life. I was honest and kind, and while I knew I wasn’t perfect, I also didn’t think I was heading for hell! If the Christian God sent to hell everybody who didn’t go to church, I wasn’t interested in getting to know Him!

Years later, I met a very different Christian God. His first interest was not whether I went to church but that I knew He loved me. I was headed toward certain death, but He had already provided an extremely simple escape plan. In reality, it was the same message the random girl at the bus station gave me—but delivered differently, very differently. In this message, the focus was not on what I had to do, but on what God had done for me.

As a sinful human being, I was destined to be separated from God forever, but I was not told that I was going to hell if I didn’t go to church but that I had a God who loved me so much that He sent His only Son to die for my sins. Jesus was God who volunteered to become human and chose to die on the cross for the sins of all humans, past, present, and future. Time is running out. Bible prophecy is proving that the world is fast headed toward destruction, but Jesus has provided a means of escape— and all because He loves and accepts me just as I am.

**React**

`1. Why do you go to church, knowing you do not have to in order to earn God’s grace?`

`2. How would you tell nonbelievers sensitively about their fate if they choose not to accept Jesus’ forgiveness?`

`3. If the real focus of the end time is on Jesus, is it still important to know about end-time events? Why?`

_Melody Tan, Wahroonga, New South Wales, Australia_