---
title:  Changing Focus
date:   27/04/2018
---

**Exploration**: Ps. 143:8; John 16:33; 1 Cor. 13:8

**Conclude**

Christians know what to expect when it comes to the end of the world: natural disasters, wars, famines . . . the list of terrible things goes on. And sometimes, when faced with such knowledge, we can be either overcome with fear or filled with an insatiable need to see the fulfilment of prophecy in every event. But the focus on the end of the world should not be on the occurrence itself; it should be on the One who loved us so much that He made certain of our eternal existence by dying for our sins.

**Consider**

- Drawing an alternate to the “The End Is Nigh” posters streetcorner evangelists usually hold. How would you help unbelievers connect the end times with what Jesus did for humanity?
- Researching what the Bible says about the love of the Father, Christ, and the Holy Spirit. How are they different? How are they similar?
- Visiting the sick in the hospital and sharing with them the hope of Jesus.
- Thinking about what you are most afraid of or worried about when it comes to the end of the world and how you can focus on Jesus to ease your fears or worries.
- Observing in nature the beauty of God’s creation and hope, despite the impending doom.

**Connect**

1. Romans 8:38, 39; Philippians 2:5–8; Ephesians 1:4, 5.
2. Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, chapter 69, “On the Mount of Olives”; chapter 79, “ ‘It Is Finished.’ ”
3. Max Lucado, Fearless, chapter 1; C. S. Lewis, The Last Battle.

_Daniel Bell, Wahroonga, New South Wales, Australia_