---
title:  Further Thought
date:   06/04/2018
---

Read Revelation 12:9–12 and Ellen G. White, “Why Was Sin Permitted?” pp. 33–43, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

> <p></p>
> “So long as all created beings acknowledged the allegiance of love, there was perfect harmony throughout the universe of God. It was the joy of the heavenly host to fulfill the purpose of their Creator. They delighted in reflecting His glory and showing forth His praise. And while love to God was supreme, love for one another was confiding and unselfish. There was no note of discord to mar the celestial harmonies. But a change came over this happy state. There was one who perverted the freedom that God had granted to His creatures. Sin originated with him who, next to Christ, had been most honored of God.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 35. 

Notice Ellen White’s words, the “allegiance of love.” This powerful phrase, full of meaning, points to the fact that love leads to allegiance, to faithfulness. A spouse who loves his or her mate will manifest that love through allegiance. It was that way with these beings in heaven, and it should be that way with us now in our relationship to God. 

**Discussion Questions**

`1. What scriptural evidence do we have that points to the reality, not just of Satan but of his role in the great controversy? How can we help people understand the reality of Satan as a personal being and not just a symbol of the evil in the human heart?`

`2. As Seventh-day Adventists, we have been blessed with an incredible amount of knowledge in regard to biblical truth. As wonderful as it is, though, why is this knowledge not enough to save us? What more do we need than just intellectual knowledge?`

`3. What are ways that you have experienced the presence of Jesus in your life even now? How can these experiences help you in whatever time of trouble you have to face?`

`4. In class talk more about the phrase, “the allegiance of love.” How can this idea help us better understand the relationship between law and grace and between faith and obedience? What does it teach about the freedom inherent in the whole idea of love? What are ways, even now, that we can reveal the “allegiance of love”?`