---
title:  Of Immense Value
date:  13/05/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 20:8–11 and Deuteronomy 5:12–15**

**Of Immense Value**

The essence of humanity’s dignity is a common creation. The fact that we are uniquely created by God places value on every human being. The unborn in the mother’s womb, the quadriplegic teenager, the young adult with Down syndrome, and the Alzheimer-afflicted grandmother all have immense value to God. He is their Father. They are His sons and daughters. “God, who made the world and everything in it, since He is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands. . . . And He has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth” (Acts 17:24–26).

Ours is a shared heritage. We belong to the same family. We are brothers and sisters fashioned, shaped, and molded by the same God. Creation provides a true sense of self-worth. When the genes and chromosomes came together to form the unique biological structure of your personality, God threw away the pattern. There is no one else like you in all the universe. You are unique, a one-of-a-kind creation, a being of such immense value that the God who created the cosmos took upon Himself our fleshly bodies and offered Himself as a sacrifice for you and your sins!

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 20:8–11 and Deuteronomy 5:12–15 from the translation of your choice. If you are pressed for time, write out Exodus 20:11 and Deuteronomy 5:15. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `