---
title:  The Judgment and the Sabbath
date:  14/05/2023
---

#### inGest

If we are merely a collection of randomly formed cells, nothing more than the product of chance and an advanced ape, then life has little meaning beyond mere survival. If we are merely one of the estimated 8 billion people clawing at one another for living space on a planet called earth, life loses its purpose. In contrast, the biblical Creation provides a reason to live and a moral imperative for living. We have been created by God and are accountable to Him for our actions. The One who made us holds us responsible. He has established absolutes, even in a world of moral relativism.

The message of the three angels flying in midair in Revelation 14 announces that “the hour of His judgment has come” (verse 7). Since we were created by God with the capacity to make moral choices, we are responsible for the decisions we make. If we were merely a random collection of cells, products of our heredity and environment alone, our actions would largely be determined by forces over which we have no control.

However, judgment implies moral responsibility. In this crisis hour of earth’s history, the judgment hour, God calls us to make decisions in light of eternity. The first angel’s earnest appeal to “worship Him who made heaven and earth, the sea and springs of waters” (verse 7) acknowledges that the basis of all worship is the fact that we were created by God.

Meanwhile, our adherence to the seventh-day Sabbath demonstrates our belief that Jesus is worthy to be worshiped as our Creator. It reveals our acceptance of His law as divinely inspired principles for living life to the fullest. Because the law is the foundation of God’s government and is a revelation of His character, it becomes the standard of judgment. Our faithfulness to the Sabbath commandment is an acknowledgment of our commitment to live according to His principles.

It is because our world so desperately needs the reassuring message of Creation that God gave us the Sabbath. In the mid-1800s, when the evolutionary hypothesis was taking the intellectual world by storm, God sent a message of incredible hope. We have been studying this message, found in Revelation 14:6, 7.

Satan has made every attempt to distort the idea of Creation because he hates Jesus and does not want Him to receive the worship He is due as our Creator and Redeemer. The Sabbath is at the center of the great controversy over Christ’s worthiness to receive worship as our Creator. God’s last-day message is one that calls all humanity back to worshiping Christ as the Creator of heaven and earth. The basis of all worship is the fact that He created us.

Sabbath is a symbol of our rest in Him, and it is a special sign of loyalty to the Creator (Ezek. 20:12, 20). Rather than an arbitrary legalistic requirement, it reveals that true rest from righteousness by works is found in Him. The Sabbath speaks of a God who has achieved for us what we could never do for ourselves.

Scripture calls us to rest in His love and care each Sabbath. The Sabbath day is a symbol of rest, not works; of grace, not legalism; of assurance, not condemnation; of dependence upon Him, not ourselves. Each Sabbath we rejoice in His goodness and praise Him for the salvation that can be found only in Christ.

The Sabbath is also the eternal link between the perfection of Eden in the past and the glory of the new heavens and the new earth in the future (Isa. 65:17; Rev. 21:1). It calls us back to our roots; it’s a link to our family of origin. The Sabbath has been continuously observed since time began. It is an unbroken connection back through time to our creation, and therefore keeps us focused on the glorious truth that we are children of God. It invites us into an intimate, close relationship with Him.

Journal:

`Think about how our society operates based on moral relativism. What does biblical judgment imply about issues such as accountability and responsibility?`

`How does the overwhelming size of the Creation only amplify the reality of God’s love? Think about how it shows that despite how small we are compared to the Creation, Christ died for us anyway.`

` `