---
title:  Deception and Usurpation
date:  15/05/2023
---

#### inTerpret

In an attempt to destroy the uniqueness of our creation, the devil has introduced a not-so-subtle counterfeit. The counterfeit, accepted by even some among us, goes like this: God is the prime cause of Creation, but He took long ages to bring life into existence because He used evolution to do it. This approach attempts to harmonize scientific “data” with the Genesis account. It asserts that the days of Creation were long, indefinite periods of time and that life on earth is billions of years old.

The biblical account is clear: God “spoke, and it was done; He commanded, and it stood fast” (Ps. 33:9; see also Heb. 11:3). The first chapter of Genesis affirms that God created the world in six literal days of 24 hours each and rested on the seventh. The linguistic structure of Genesis 1 and 2 does not permit anything else. Even scholars who don’t believe in the literal six-day Creation acknowledge that the author’s intent was to teach the six-day Creation.

The Hebrew word for “day” in Genesis 1 is yom. Throughout the Bible, every time a number modifies the word yom as an adjective (third day, first day, etc.), it limits the time period to 24 hours. Without exception, it is always a 24-hour period.

Additionally, and to the immediate point, if God did not create the world in six literal days, what significance does the seventh-day Sabbath have? Why would God command it? It would make absolutely no sense at all to leave the Sabbath as an eternal legacy of a six-day Creation week if a six-day Creation week never existed to begin with. To accept long ages of creation is to challenge the very need for the seventh-day Sabbath. It also raises serious questions regarding the integrity of Scripture.

By attacking the Sabbath, Satan is challenging the very heart of God’s authority, and what could be more effective in destroying the memorial of the six-day Creation than by denying the reality of the six-day Creation? No wonder so many people, Christians included, ignore the seventh-day Sabbath. What a setup for the final deception.

The great controversy, which began in heaven millennia ago, is over the question of God’s authority. In the last days the central issue in the conflict between good and evil, Christ and Satan, is worship. Do we worship the Creator or the beast? And because Creation forms the ground of all our beliefs (after all, what do we believe that makes any sense apart from God as our Creator?), the seventh-day Sabbath, embedded in the Genesis Creation account itself (Gen. 2:1–3), stands as the eternal and immutable sign of that Creation. It’s the simplest symbol of the simplest teaching. The only thing more fundamental to it is God Himself.

Hence, to usurp the seventh-day Sabbath is to usurp the Lord’s authority at the most prime level possible, that of Him as Creator. It’s to get behind everything and uproot it at the core. It is, indeed, to seek to take the place of God Himself (2 Thess. 2:4).

Of course, the real issue in the last days is our love and loyalty to Jesus, but according to the Bible, this love is expressed in obedience to the commandments (1 John 5:3; Rev. 14:12)—and the Sabbath alone among the commandments gets behind everything because it alone points to God as Creator (Exod. 20:8–11). No wonder it will be the outward symbol of the final divide between those who worship the Lord and those who worship the beast (Rev. 14:11, 12). Considering how fundamental the Sabbath is to everything else, it’s hard to see how the final issue of worshiping the Creator could be about anything else.

“The reason provided . . . to worship God is that He is the Creator. In the heavenly liturgy, celestial beings expressed the idea in a very succinct way: ‘For You created all things’ ([Rev.] 4:11). On earth, God’s creatorship needs to be emphasized as much as possible, so the angel says, ‘Worship Him who made the heaven and the earth and sea and springs of waters’ ([Rev.] 14:7, NKJV). It has been correctly indicated that the angel is using the language of the fourth commandment to justify the call to worship God (Exod. 20:11). . . .

“Within the Decalogue the Sabbath commandment stands as its seal in that it identifies who God is—the Creator; confirms the territory over which He rules—everything He created; and reveals His right to rule—for He created everything. In order for the dragon to succeed, he had somehow to set aside this memorial” (Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, “The Closing of the Cosmic Conflict: Role of the Three Angels’ Messages,” unpublished manuscript, 40, 41).

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How are the judgment, the commandments of God, and worship linked?`

` `