---
title:  The Sabbath and Eternal Rest
date:  17/05/2023
---

#### inVite

The Sabbath is a place of refuge in a weary world. Every week, we leave the cares of this world and enter God’s retreat center: the Sabbath. In his work The Sabbath: Its Meaning for Modern Man, famed Jewish author Abraham Heschel calls it “a palace in time” ([New York: Farrar, Straus, and Giroux, 2005], 12). Each seventh day, God’s heavenly palace descends from heaven to earth, and the Lord invites us into the glory of His presence for this 24-hour period to spend a time of intimate fellowship with Him.

In the introduction to Heschel’s book on the beauty and solemnity of the Sabbath, Susannah Heschel, his daughter, writes of the significance of the Sabbath in these words: “The Sabbath is a metaphor for paradise and a testimony to God’s presence; in our prayers, we anticipate a messianic era that will be a Sabbath, and each Shabbat prepares us for that experience: Unless one learns how to relish the taste of Sabbath . . . one will be unable to enjoy the taste of eternity in the world to come” (XV).

At Creation, Jesus built a special dwelling for us. We can find refuge there. We can be safe there. His work is complete. It is finished. When we rest on the Sabbath, we are resting in His loving care. We are resting in anticipation of our eternal rest in the new heavens and the new earth that is soon to come.

The same God who created the earth the first time will create a new one, and the Sabbath remains an eternal reminder of Him as the Creator (see Isa. 66:23). In fact, the Jews saw the Sabbath as a symbol, a foretaste of what in Hebrew was called the olam haba, the world to come.

The message of three angels flying through the heavens commanding to worship the Creator is heaven’s answer to the hopeless despair of many in the twenty-first century. It points us to our Creator, the one who first made all things, and to our Redeemer, the one who will, after the judgment, after sin is eradicated, make all things new. “Then He who sat on the throne said, ‘Behold, I make all things new.’ And He said to me, ‘Write, for these words are true and faithful’  ” (Rev. 21:5).

Journal:

`Meditate on Exodus 20:8–11 and Deuteronomy 5:12–15 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How can you personally make the Sabbath a foretaste of heaven in your own life and in your family?`

`How do you see Jesus differently in the light of this week’s lesson?`

` `