---
title:  THE HOLINESS OF GOD
date:   05/02/2017
---

### THE HOLINESS OF GOD

(1 Peter 1:14–16)

`Read 1 Peter 1:14–16. Why is God’s holiness the greatest reason we have for living a holy life? What causes you to live a holy life? What does it mean that God is holy?`

Today it is popular to talk about God’s love without mentioning His holiness. It is true that God is love. At the same time, the name of God is connected in the Bible with the idea of holiness more than it is connected with any other idea (Psalm 89:18; Isaiah 40:25; Jeremiah 51:5; Ezekiel 39:7; Revelation 4:8). This is because the word holiness describes how pure God’s heart and mind are. God’s holiness shows that He is perfectly good. And it means that He is completely free from evil. 

God has power without limits. He has perfect knowledge. And He has the power to be everywhere at once. But suppose He had all that power but was not holy. Then we would be right to be afraid of His power. 

His power is holy power. His mercy is holy mercy. His wisdom is holy wisdom. And His love is holy love. So, holiness is the word that describes God best. More than any other word, it describes who He is. To say that God is not pure or holy may be worse than even rejecting God Himself. To reject the Living God is the same as saying there is no God. But to say God is not pure or holy is to say He is ugly and hateful.

God’s holiness separates Him from sin. God desires to do and think only what is good, which is what He is. In other words, holiness means having a pure heart and making only good and pure choices. It means being separate from sin. And for us, it means giving God glory.

Isaiah 6:3 and Revelation 4:8 describe God as “Holy, holy, holy.” Bible writers will repeat a word that is important. They repeat the word in order to point our attention to what is said. Jesus also points our attention to important ideas by repeating words. For example, He repeats “ ‘truly, truly’ ” (John 5:24; John 6:47, NASB) and “Jerusalem, Jerusalem” (Matthew 23:37). He also repeats a person’s name twice: “Martha, Martha” (Luke 10:41). God’s holiness is the only thing that is repeated three times in a row, and it is about God Himself. Repeating the word holy three times in the verses means that this idea of holiness is very important. And God is indeed holy. He is pure and good.

`How scared would you be of God if He were not holy and loving? What does your answer tell you about why we should be so thankful that God is as He is?`