---
title:  WHAT IT MEANS TO BE HOLY
date:   06/02/2017
---

### WHAT IT MEANS TO BE HOLY

(Ephesians 5:25–27)

“Come closer to Jesus. Next to Jesus, you will see how sinful you really are. Seeing yourself so clearly is proof that Satan’s lies have lost their power. It is proof that the life-giving power of the Spirit of God is working in your life.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, pages 64, 65. 

`Read Ephesians 1:4; Ephesians 5:25–27; and Hebrews 12:14. In these verses, what is God’s purpose for all His people and for the church?` 

Holiness is both God’s gift and His command. We should pray for holiness every day. And we should ask God to help us live holy lives each and every day too. After all, holiness is the fruit of the Spirit. And it is shown by our lives. It also is shown when we walk by the Spirit with Christ every day (Galatians 5:16, 22, 25). Holiness, in one word, is Christlikeness. It means being like Christ and living the unselfish life He led. It means belonging to Jesus. It is living as His child. It means to love Him and obey Him. And it means growing more and more like Him. In other words, the basic definition of holiness means being set apart for a special purpose for God. 

In the New Testament, believers are called holy. Their special relationship to Jesus sets them apart for a special purpose. Being holy does not make the believers perfect and sinless. But it changes them so that they can begin to live a pure and holy life. (Read 1 Corinthians 1:2, where Paul calls the Corinthians “holy people” [NIrV] or “saints”. But they are not sinless and perfect.) 

In other words, believers are told to pursue holiness. Why? Because without it, no one will see the Lord (Hebrews 12:14). God accepts each believer into His perfect love when he or she comes to Him. But our growth in holiness is a lifelong process. It means choosing to be filled every moment with God’s Spirit. It means living every moment in His presence. Then we will be changed into the likeness of Him who has saved us. 

`God makes it possible for sinners to be holy. So why must they still pursue holiness or living a holy life? These two ideas seem to be opposite from each other. But we know that we already belong to God. And we know that He accepts us because of Jesus’ death for us on the cross. So how does knowing these two things make our need to live a holy life easier to understand?`