---
title:  THE ONE WHO MAKES US HOLY
date:   07/02/2017
---

### THE ONE WHO MAKES US HOLY

(1 Corinthians 6:11)

`What do 1 Corinthians 6:11; Titus 3:5; and Hebrews 13:12 tell us about sanctification?`

We become holy by faith (Hebrews 11:6) through the power of the Holy Spirit (2 Thessalonians 2:13; 1 Peter 1:2). The apostle (leader; teacher) Paul writes, “But your sins were washed away. You were made holy. You were made right with God. All of this was done in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. It was also done by the Spirit of our God” (1 Corinthians 6:11, NIrV). So, Jesus causes us to grow in holiness throughout our whole lives. He causes the fruit of the Spirit to grow within us. He changes us into His likeness. And this change “comes from the Lord, who is the Holy Spirit” (2 Corinthians 3:18, NIrV). 

`Read Galatians 5:16, 17. What does Paul tell us in these verses?`

There is a battle going on in every believer. The war we all face comes from the fact that sin dwells (lives) in us (Romans 7:20). 

`Read Hebrews 12:1, 2. In these verses, what is the fight of faith that we are to wage (carry on; make) against sin?` 

We are called to fight a battle against sin. We can win only if we “keep looking to Jesus. He is the one who started this journey of faith. And he is the one who completes the journey of faith” (Hebrews 12:2, NIrV). But too often our religious experience is centered on self. We focus (put our attention) more on our wins and losses than on God. God alone can help us win the battle over sin. This is because the Holy Spirit helps us to look to Jesus. When we look at Jesus, we will have no desire for sin. Then everything that so easily causes us to fall into sin is put aside (Hebrews 12:1). We must not, then, focus on our sins and shortcomings (faults). We must not look at ourselves. We must look to Jesus. Looking at ourselves causes us to be defeated. Looking at our mistakes causes us to get discouraged. But by looking at Jesus, we will be encouraged to live a holy life in His power.  

`Suppose someone were to ask you, “How do I defeat sin in the way the Bible promises me I can?” What would you answer, and why? Bring your answer to class on Sabbath.`

##### DEFINITIONS

1. **sanctification**—the act of being made holy. Jesus makes us holy by cleansing us and forgiving our sins and by giving us His Spirit. The more we give ourselves to God, the more He changes us to be like Him. Sanctification is a process that takes place over a lifetime.