---
title:  THE RULE OF HOLINESS IS GOD’S LAW
date:   08/02/2017
---

### THE RULE OF HOLINESS IS GOD’S LAW

(Romans 7:12)

We know that God asks us to keep His law. But this fact raises a question. Why should we keep His law if we cannot be saved by it? The answer is found in the idea of holiness.

`Read Romans 7:12 and 1 Timothy 1:8. What words does Paul use to describe the law in these verses? How does the law show the character (thoughts; feelings; actions) of God?`

The law is holy, fair, and good. Together, these three words can describe only God and His law. So, the law shows us who God is. 

To live a Spirit-filled life means that we live by the law of God. The law does not change. God does not change. He is always holy. So is His law. Jesus tells us that He did not come to get rid of the law. Instead, He came to show us that every part of His law must be kept (obeyed) (Matthew 5:17–19). Yet, keeping the law is not about trying to save yourself by your own good works. Keeping the law is an act of faith. The law does not save us. It never can. The law is never our way to salvation. Instead, it is the path of the saved. The law shows us how to live our lives and how to love others. After all, Jesus warns us about what will happen when people turn away from His law: “ ‘Because evil will grow, most people’s love will grow cold’ ” (Matthew 24:12, NIrV). In other words, love grows cold when the law is not appreciated.

`Read Romans 13:10 and Matthew 22:37–40. In these verses, why is love the fulfillment of the law?`

God’s law is the standard, or rule, for holiness. And at the heart of His holiness is love. So, love is our answer to God’s act that saved us. And it is shown by a life of faithful obedience to Him. You cannot be a true disciple of Jesus without being a keeper of the law. It is possible to appear to keep the law and to do so without love. But to show true love, you must keep the law. True love desires to be faithful. Love does not get rid of the law. It fulfills (keeps) it. 

`Why is the law a description or picture of God’s love for us? How are love and obedience connected?`