---
title:  PURSUING HOLINESS
date:   09/02/2017
---

### PURSUING HOLINESS

(Ephesians 4:22–24)

`Read Psalm 15:1, 2; Ephesians 4:22–24; and 2 Timothy 2:21. What do these verses tell us about holiness?`

Holiness is what we must have first before we can truly enjoy happiness and fellowship with God. We need to have holiness in order to serve God truly and be useful to Him. 

We cannot develop new and better habits and new and better characters on our own. We cannot make ourselves holy. Forming new habits is the way that the Spirit leads us to become holy. Habits, then, are very important in our Christian walk. Habits that help us develop virtues (good behaviors) are deeply important. These virtues include being patient, loving, and faithful. They include being kind and good and gentle and having control of oneself. 

What happens when the Holy Spirit fills our hearts? We become workers for God. But too often we do His work and forget that it is God who makes us holy. We forget who will finish the “good work” that He has begun in us (Philippians 1:6). We get busy doing all kinds of things for God. And then we forget to enjoy time with Him in prayer. But being too busy to pray really means we are too busy to be Christians. 

Knowledge and success are important. But we must not forget that we can do nothing without Christ and the Holy Spirit. This is because doing great things is not holiness. There will be people who think that they have done great works for the Lord. But they really were not following God at all. Jesus says, “ ‘Many will say to me on that day [of judgment], “Lord! Lord! [Did we not] prophesy [tell the future] in your name? [Did we not] drive out demons in your name? [Did we not] do many miracles in your name?” ’ ” (Matthew 7:22, 23, NIrV). This is to say that there are those who are led by God. And then there are those who are led by self. And there is a big difference between the two. 

How do we know God is leading us? Here are two things we need to do that will help us know that He is leading in our lives. First, we must take the time to listen to the call of God. Suppose we do not listen. Then we stand in danger of being led by self to do whatever we want. But our work must come from God. Suppose our work does not. Then there will be no strength, no power, no peace, and no lasting blessing in our work. Second, our greatest need is to spend time with God. And we must listen for His voice. We will receive new strength from the Bible then. And the Holy Spirit will lead us. His leading and our listening to Him will give our work power and will turn others to Him.