---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   10/02/2017
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

Read Ellen G. White, “Like Unto Leaven [Yeast],” pages 95–102, in Christ’s Object Lessons. 

How do we even begin to understand the holiness of God? It is so hard for us to understand it. We are sinful, and God is so perfect. His holiness makes Him who He is. He is not a part of the world of sin and death that we humans experience. And here is the most amazing thing: God offers us the opportunity to take part in His holiness. This opportunity is part of what a covenant2 relationship with Him is about. “ ‘Speak to the whole community of Israel. Tell them, “Be holy, because I am holy” ’ ” (Leviticus 19:2, NIrV). Or, as the book of Hebrews says, “ ‘The days are coming, announces the Lord. I will make a new covenant  with the people of Israel. I will also make it with the people of Judah. . . . This is the covenant I will establish [make] with the people of Israel after that time, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their minds. I will write them on their hearts. I will be their God. And they will be my people’ ” (Hebrews 8:8, 10, NIrV). In these verses, we can see the connection between holiness, covenant, and law. We cannot be holy without obeying God’s law. And we obey His law because the Holy Spirit writes it in our hearts and minds. 

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`In class, go over your answers to the question at the end of Tuesday’s study. What would you tell those who want to know how to win the battle over sin in their own lives?`

`What does it mean to have God’s law written in our hearts and minds? Why is this different from having it written only on tablets of stone?`

`When you think of God’s holiness, of what do you think? What does Jesus show to us about God’s holiness?`

`What is the foundation for our holiness? How do we become holy?`

`Earlier in the week, we read in Wednesday’s study: “The law does not save us. It never can. The law is never our way to salvation. Instead, it is the path of the saved.” How do these thoughts help us to understand how important the law should be for Christians in whom the Holy Spirit is working?`

##### DEFINITIONS

2. **covenant**—having to do with the promise or agreement God made with His people. The people agreed to keep God’s law. And God agreed to bless them.