---
title:  Pressing Societal Issues
date:   09/12/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 25:31–46**

**Pressing Societal Issues**

Early Adventist pioneers were vocal advocates for the total abolition of slavery in America. Adventists were so interconnected with the abolitionist movement that to be an Adventist also meant being an abolitionist. Only an incomplete understanding of our history would lead someone to say the church today should focus solely on preaching the gospel and avoid the pressing societal issues impacting our communities.

Our first General Conference president, John Byington, used his farm as a stop on the Underground Railroad, helping slaves escape to freedom. The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald was banned in the southern states due to the strong anti-slavery stance it took in its articles. James White, J.N. Andrews, J.N. Loughborough, and Uriah Smith all strongly denounced the U.S. government for its stance on slavery and for how the 3.5 million African Americans living in the country were treated.

Ellen White advocated for breaking the 1850 Fugitive Slave Act that required anyone to return an escaped slave to their master regardless of whether they were in a slave or free state: “The law of our land requiring us to deliver a slave to his master, we are not to obey; and we must abide the consequences of violating this law” (Ellen White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 1 [1855], 201). Ellen White also believed that people who sympathized with the institution of American slavery should be disfellowshipped from the church so that the church’s reputation might be protected, saying, “We must let it be known that we have no such ones in our fellowship, that we will not walk with them in church capacity” (Ibid., p. 359). Our early pioneers were countercultural not only in their beliefs about the Sabbath and the sanctuary but also in practical areas of concern, pressing for societal reforms that had a biblical mandate. The church later got involved in the temperance movement, which advocated for the banning of alcohol.

This brief overview of our history paints a picture of a church that was both theologically and practically wholistic. It’s important to learn from our spiritual heritage and, more importantly, from how they lived according to biblical mandates to see how we can identify, adapt, and apply those principles to our own lives.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 25:31–46 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `