---
title:  Rebellion versus Christian Conviction
date:   10/12/2023
---

#### inGest

As our early pioneers looked forward to Jesus’ return, they recognized that they were already living in the time of judgment during which every person will be called to give account of their lives before God. Regarding the cruelty of the slave trade in light of the judgment, Ellen White wrote, “All heaven beholds with indignation human beings, the workmanship of God, reduced by their fellow men to the lowest depths of degradation and placed on a level with the brute creation.... Angels have recorded it all; it is written in the book. The tears of the pious bondmen and bondwomen, of fathers, mothers, and children, brothers and sisters, are all bottled up in heaven” (Early Writings [1882], 275). Their belief in Jesus’ soon return and God’s imminent judgments motivated them to oppose American slavery. Though it was a very tense period in U.S. history that of course erupted into a bloody civil war in the 1860s, our early pioneers were unswerving in their public criticism of the slave trade. In 1857, J.N. Andrews wrote, “In the institution of Slavery is more especially manifested, thus far, the dragon spirit that dwells in the heart of this hypocritical nation” (“The Three Angels of Rev. XIV,” in Advent Review, and Sabbath Herald, vol. 9, no. 20 [19 March], 156). For J.N. Andrews and other Adventist pioneers, slavery was evidence that although America was full of Christians who went to church every week, it was also being driven by the wrong spirit.

While slavery existed, Adventists confronted the issue with a call to repent and repair what was broken. Ellen White even advocated breaking the law of the land in helping slaves escape when possible. In the 1890s, after slavery had been abolished, Ellen White wrote The Southern Work, a book that called the church to serve emancipated slaves. In the 1890s, the United States was a most unwelcoming mission field, with racial hostility sparking violence and injustice against people of color. White people who started schools or other facilities for blacks were also targeted. At age 44, in the midst of all this tension and violence, Ellen White’s wayward son, Edson, converted and felt convicted to respond to the need in the south. Risking everything, Edson moved south to help pioneer the gospel work amongst the recently freed slaves by establishing schools, publishing houses, and churches throughout the region.

Those who got involved in helping the downtrodden were following the instructions Jesus gave to His disciples in His last sermon, recorded in Matthew 25. Beginning in the previous chapter, this message was an answer to a question the disciples had asked: “What will be the sign of Your coming?” (24:3). Chapter 25 has three parables, each related to the Second Coming in some way. First is the parable of the ten virgins, which we looked at in lesson one. It talks about the personal preparation needed for Christ’s return. This is followed by the parable of the talents, which places emphasis on the importance of laboring for others’ salvation.

The last parable, in which the King separates the wicked goats from the righteous sheep, explains in a simple and practical way the criteria by which we will be judged. Our active ministry will profit us little if it has not been authentic and selfless, always seeking the good of society’s downtrodden. So much of today’s religious activity is public. People often seek outward acknowledgment, but this is not the kind of service Jesus looks for. Both groups in the parable of the sheep and the goats were surprised that their service or lack of service was even noticed. The people represented by the goats were not expecting to be condemned by their neglect of seemingly unimportant people, and those represented by the sheep were not expecting to be rewarded for the ways they helped the outcasts of society, for they didn’t do it to gain public favor.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`How does the parable of the sheep and goats teach us to get ready for Jesus’ second coming? `

`How can we move beyond helping people just because we want others to notice?`