---
title:  Back to Basics
date:   11/12/2023
---

### inTerpret

The parable of the sheep and goats begins with judgment language: we see a throne, and the sheep and goats are physically separated from each other. These animals represent all nations, not just one area of the world, and they’re gathered before the Son of Man in a typification of the final judgment on the earth. A clear distinction is drawn between the sheep on the right hand, signifying honor and blessing, and the goats on the left, indicating disfavor.

Verses 34–36 outline the reward given to the righteous—inheriting the kingdom—and then explain why they’re granted the inheritance. This passage lists six examples of practical service they’ve done: feeding the hungry, providing drink to the thirsty, taking in the stranger, clothing the naked, visiting the sick, and visiting those in prison. However, in verses 37–39, the righteous answer in bewilderment, wondering when they did all those things.

Today’s world is saturated with social media, the goal of many is to get more likes, comments, and followers or subscribers—where good deeds are often recorded and posted with the intention of “influencing” others to do good as well. While broadcasting good deeds can have a positive influence, the fact remains that public displays of benevolence are often motivated by the hope of gaining attention.

The beauty of this parable is that the righteous don’t even know what they’ve done to deserve a reward. It’s such a regular part of their lives that they no longer think about it—they’ve simply been responding automatically to others’ needs. To answer their question in verses 37–39, Jesus compares Himself to those in need, the lowest of society, declaring that when we serve them, we have served Him. Similarly, those who ignored those in need ignored Jesus. Too often our society values serving people of importance while ignoring the lowest classes, but through this parable, Jesus flips that whole mindset.

The importance of serving is reiterated in The Desire of Ages: “When the nations are gathered before Him, there will be but two classes, and their eternal destiny will be determined by what they have done or have neglected to do for Him in the person of the poor and the suffering.” (Ellen White [1898], 637).

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How can we find a balance between posting about the work we’re doing for God to influence and inspire others and posting to gain attention and shed light on how good we are?`