---
title:  Being Countercultural
date:   13/12/2023
---

### inVite

Our love for God is manifested in how we love those around us. Jesus’ work and ministry highlight this truth as He was the epitome of selfless love for others. This parable in Matthew 25 is a recognition of those who truly serve God by doing what Jesus did. There are numerous descriptions of Jesus spending time with various socially despised people groups in an effort to teach His disciples what true service is. Jesus’ followers emulate this behavior, but it’s such an intrinsic part of who they are that they do it without realizing the significance of their actions.

Jesus went further than just ministering to outcasts. Christ identified Himself with them so closely that He declared that however we treat these outcasts is how we have treated Him. Here Jesus stands out as a countercultural God, likening Himself to the poor, sick, imprisoned, hungry, thirsty, and naked. This is so different to the way almost every earthly leader sees themselves since achieving status means escaping the drudgery and stigma of poverty, but Jesus sees no shame in identifying Himself with this people group.

Christ did these countercultural things so often that people drew conclusions about His character, and His followers are to serve in the same culturally radical way. We are to engage with the downtrodden so often that it becomes an integral part of who we are. When the day of judgment comes and all the professionalism, hierarchy, structure, and organization of this world are swept away, God will look for those who have shown genuine, selfless service to others.

It’s often said that we can tell who someone is by who they spend time with. Some of us try to make friends with people above us on the social or corporate ladder to get ahead and improve our self-esteem. In trying to advance our careers, education, and financial aspirations, we often seek out mentors who are more successful. Jesus isn’t against any of us being successful in life, but this parable redefines true success. For Jesus, success was about serving others. The mission statement for His whole life centered around service: “For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life a ransom for many” (Mark 10:45). The most valuable mentors are those who teach us how to successfully live a life of devotion to God and service to others.

Service for those in need rarely results in an immediate conversion, but this is possibly exactly why Jesus placed so much emphasis on it. Our true motives in serving are laid bare. Are we doing it to get attention or notoriety, or are we doing it out of love—for no earthly gain whatsoever? Put simply, Jesus came to earth because He is love, and the saved will demonstrate this same characteristic because they’ll reflect who Jesus is.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`What is true success in God’s eyes?`

`How can we be sure we’re serving for the right reasons even if we’re praised or rewarded for that service?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`