---
title:  The Power of Giving
date:   17/02/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Mark 16:15; 1 Peter 3:8, 9; 1 Corinthians 9:14; Romans 3:19–24. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Surely you know that those who work at the Temple get their food from the Temple. And those who serve at the altar get part of what is offered at the altar. It is the same with those who tell the Good News. The Lord has commanded that those who tell the Good News should get their living from this work” (1 Corinthians 9:13, 14, ICB). 

AS WE SAW LAST WEEK, the Bible teaches that we must pay tithe. Paying tithe means giving back to God 10% of all the money we get.Paying tithe is the same as passing a test.When we pay tithe, we show our faith. So, we pass the test when we pay tithe (2 Corinthians 13:5, NLV). 

The first time we read about tithe in the Bible is in the story about Abraham in Genesis 14:18–20. In this story, Abraham gives tithe to Melchizedek. The Bible also tells us the Levites took tithe for the work they did in the temple (2 Chronicles 31:4–10). Today, tithe is used to support those who share the Good News. 

Tithe is God’s plan. So, we need to understand the importance of paying tithe and how the money is used in the church to do God’s work. God made this plan to help us grow stronger in our spiritual lives. Paying tithe is God’s way for us to support the preaching of the Good News about Jesus. So, every loyal manager should pay tithe.Yes, paying tithe is the first work managers must do. This week we continue to study God’s plan for tithe. 