---
title:  Our money helps God’s work go forward
date:   18/02/2018
---

Jesus tells us to “ ‘preach the Good News’ ” (Mark 16:15, NLV). Healsotellsusto“ ‘go and makefollowers’ ”andto“‘teachthem to do all the things I have told you’ ” (Matthew 28:19, 20, NLV). Yes, God wants us to be part of the most important work on earth.That work is bringing people to Jesus.We are responsible for providing the money for this work. So, we must support God’s work with our money. Then we will grow closer to God. We will want to tell other people more about Jesus too. 

Every follower of Jesus is a manager of everything God gives to him or her. God’s gifts to us include our money. So, we must bring God our tithe. Tithe is 10% of all the money we get. Our tithe is used to help finish God’s work on earth. This work is holy. So, we must pray that we will be loyal to God with our money. We must pray that we will all help support God’s holy work. Then our faith will grow strong. 

`Read Malachi 3:10.As this verse shows us, what is God’s plan for supporting and finishing His work on earth? What does the “ ‘entire tenth [10%]’ ” (Malachi 3:10, NIrV) mean? What does the wording “ ‘so that there may be food in My house’ ” (Malachi 3:10, NLV) mean?` 

People have paid tithe since the time of Abraham and Jacob (Genesis 14:20; Genesis 28:22). Maybe people paid tithe long before this time, too. God provided this plan to support His church. 

Today, many Christians give very little to help the work of God. That is very sad. But what would happen if every Christian gave a loyal tithe? Something powerful would happen! A miracle too wonderful to put into words! 

God always has people who are willing to provide money to support His work on earth. All of us must work together to support this important work. But we must support God’s work in the right way. We must not be careless. We have much more important work to do today than the people and the Levites had when they said to Nehemiah, “ ‘We will not forget to take care of the house of our God’ ” (Nehemiah 10:39, NLV). We must work together to support God’s work. 

`God’s plan to save the people of this earth is very big (read Revelation 14:6, 7). So, what part do we each have in using our tithe to support this work?`