---
title:  Good things for you
date:   19/02/2018
---

Yesterday, we saw in Malachi 3:10 that God promises to pour out “ ‘good things’ ” (NLV) on His followers who are loyal to Him with their money. But we should not think that this verse means we will receive only more things from Him. That idea is very limited. It shows we fail to understand the true meaning of God’s promise to us. 

The good things Malachi talks about are not just things we can touch and see. They include spiritual things, too. What are these things? They are the gifts of happiness, peace, and believing God always is doing the best for us. Did you know that when God pours out His gifts upon us we must share those good gifts with people in need? So, God gives to us so that we also may give to others. 

`Read 1 Peter 3:8, 9. In these verses, Peter says there is a connection between getting good things from God and sharing them with others. What is the connection?` 

Paying tithe is a two-in-one gift: (1) God gives to us; then (2) we give to others. God’s gifts fill our hearts with the desire to share with people the things God gives us. Then God’s gifts touch their lives in ways we can see. “ ‘Give, and you will receive. . . . The way you give to others is the way God will give to you’ ” (Luke 6:38, ICB). 

`Read Acts 20:35. How can the truth of this verse also be used to help us understand better what tithing means?` 

The best gift we get from paying tithe is that it teaches us to trust in God (Jeremiah 17:7). “God built the plan of paying tithe on a rule that was everlasting. The tithe plan was a gift to the Jews, or God would not have given it to them. This tithe plan also will be a gift to those who follow it to the end of time. Our Father in heaven did not make this plan to make Himself rich. Instead, this plan is God’s wonderful gift to man. God saw that this plan was exactly what man needed.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 3, pages 404, 405, adapted. 

`Think of how God has shown you His favor by what other people have done for you. How can you do this same thing for others too?`