---
title:  The purpose of giving
date:   20/02/2018
---

Paul writes: “ ‘When a cow is walking on the grain to break it open, do not stop it from eating some,’ ” and “ ‘A person who works should be paid’ ” (1 Timothy 5:18, NLV). Here, Paul says what Moses said in Deuteronomy 25:4 about the ox and what Jesus said in Luke 10:7 about the worker. The saying about the ox means that it is good and right for the ox to eat grain while working. In the same way, Paul says that those who preach the Good News should be paid. 

Have you ever noticed that God takes the separate things that He makes and then arranges them together in groups to do special work? He made the stars to give light. He filled forests with everything needed to support life: trees, plants, soil, rocks, sunlight, and water. He made your stomach to make use of the food you eat. In the same way, He also made the plan of tithe. The plan of tithe is God’s command for us to give back to Him 10% of all the money we get. The plan of tithe supported the work of the Levites (Numbers 18:26) in God’s place of worship. Modern-day Levites are pastors.They give their whole lives to the work of preaching the Good News. So, God made the plan of tithe to support pastors in their work. 

`What does Paul mean in 1 Corinthians 9:14? How does this verse and 2 Corinthians 11:7–10 show that we must support those who spread the Good News?` 

Paul received money from a poor church in Macedonia while he worked in a rich church in Corinth. Paul tells the Corinthians that those who preach the Good News should be paid for their work. 

Tithe should be used only for one special purpose. And we always must follow this plan. “God has a special use for our tithe. Tithe must not be used as money for the poor. Tithe should be used to support workers who are spreading God’s message over all the earth. Tithe should be used for no other purpose.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels [Advice] on Stewardship [Taking care of the gifts God gives us], page 103, adapted. 

`Read Leviticus 27:30. How is the rule found in this verse important for us to follow today?`