---
title:  The storehouse
date:   21/02/2018
---

Did you know God has a storehouse for wind (Jeremiah 10:13)? And one for water (Psalm 33:7)? And one for snow and hail (Job 38:22)? God has total control over them all. But God’s most precious storehouse is the one for tithe. Tithe is the money we give back to God. It is 10% of all the money we get. “ ‘The people of Israel will give a tenth [10%] of what they make. I give that tenth to the Levites. This is their payment for the work they do serving at the Meeting Tent’ ” (Numbers 18:21, ICB).This verse is the first time the Bible tells us where the tithe is kept. From this verse, we get the idea named “the Storehouse Rule.” The Storehouse Rule explains what should be done with the tithe. The Bible says God told the Israelites to bring the tithe to the place He chose (Deuteronomy 12:5, 6). During the time of Solomon, tithe was sent to the temple in Jerusalem. So, the Israelites knew exactly what and where the “storehouse” was when God’s special messenger Malachi told them: “ ‘Bring to the storehouse a tenth [10%] of what you gain [get]’ ” (Malachi 3:10, ICB). Storehouse was a word picture. It meant the place where God was worshiped. 

`Read 1 Chronicles 26:20; 2 Chronicles 31:11–13; and Nehemiah 10:38. As these verses show us, what other names does the Bible use for storehouse?` 

The Seventh-day Adventist Church has members all over the earth. They accept and practice the Storehouse Rule. Seventh-day Adventists are encouraged to send back their tithes to the local church where they are members. From there, the tithe is sent to the church treasury. Then pastors are paid out of this treasury. 

“God’s work will spread. Then many workers for God will ask for money to help to spread the Good News. More and more, workers everywhere will ask for money to help them do God’s work. So, it is important for Christians to obey the command in Malachi 3:10. People who say they are Christians should bring to God their tithes and gifts of money. Then God’s treasury will be full.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders], page 338, adapted. 

`What if people sent their tithe anywhere they wanted? Then what would happen to God’s work? Why is it important to send our tithe to God’s treasury, where it belongs?`