---
title:  Giving to God and God’s plan to save us
date:   22/02/2018
---

`Read Romans 3:19–24. What important truth is taught in these verses? Why is this teaching important to all our beliefs?` 

The most important idea of these verses is that no one is worthy to be saved (Romans 3:23). But what if we were worthy? Then that would mean we could be saved by the good works we do. But that idea is wrong. 

`Read Romans 4:1–5. What do these verses teach us about the truth that we are saved by God’s loving-favor and not by our own good behavior?` 

The Bible teaches us that being saved is a gift from God (Ephesians 2:8, 9). We cannot do anything to earn this gift. We are saved because Jesus died for us on the cross. God gives us His favor because of what Jesus did on the cross. So, that means we do not earn points for any special favor from God because we pay our tithe. After all, the tithe already belongs to God. So, how can we earn God’s favor by giving back to Him what already belongs to Him? 

Paying tithe does not save us. And we cannot be saved by any other good works that we do. But God made us for that very reason: we were made to do good works. The Bible tells us, “[God] has made us to belong to Christ Jesus so we can work for Him. He planned that we should do this” (Ephesians 2:10, NLV). 

Paying tithe does not save us. But paying tithe shows the faith in our hearts. When we give back tithe, we also show we are not proud. We show that we serve God. Paying tithe shows we understand that we owe God everything. Giving back tithe shows we know we are only managers of the things we have in this life. The Sabbath helps us understand this truth about tithe too. Each week the Sabbath helps us remember that God made us and saves us. Paying tithe helps us remember these things too. How does paying tithe do that? Paying tithe shows we understand we did not make ourselves. Paying tithe shows we know that our lives and our being saved are gifts from God. 

`What does Luke 21:1–4 say to us about what it means to live a life of faith?`