---
title:  Additional thought
date:   23/02/2018
---

It is so easy to forget that every breath and every pump of our hearts and each moment of our lives comes only from the Lord. In Acts 17, Paul talks to the people ofAthens.Athens is a city in Greece.Paul talks to the people of Athens about the true God. Paul says that God is the One who made us: “He is the God who made the world [the earth]. He also made everything in it” (Acts 17:24, NIrV). Also, God is the One who keeps us alive. His power helps us “live and move and keep on living” (Acts 17:28, NLV). The people of Athens did not know about the true God. But we know because we are Christians. How we live our lives must show this truth. God asks us to do many things for Him. So, our lives need to show we are doing those things that God wants us to do. 

“God puts His treasures in the hands of men. But He commands that we separate 10% of all the money we get. This 10% is for His work. God orders that this money should be placed in His treasury. We give this money to God because it belongs to Him. This money is holy. It is to be used for holy purposes. It is to be used to support those workers who spread the Good News to all parts of the earth. God commands that 10% of all we earn should be put to this use. And so, there always will be money in God’s treasure house. Then the truth can be spread to everyone near and far away. God’s loyal followers will give back to Him 10% of all the money they get. In this way, they show that everything belongs to God.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 6, page 386, adapted. 

**Discussion questions** 

`1 Ellen G. White says, “We must not hold back from God what belongs to Him.”—The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders and Teachers], page 566, adapted. What do these words mean? What do we lose when we do not pay tithe? Paying tithe is giving back to God 10% of all the money we get.` 

`2 Think more about church members doing whatever they want with tithe. Some members might send it to help people instead of sending it to God’s “storehouse.” Why is that a bad idea? Why would sending the tithe wherever we want cause the church to become weak?`