---
title:  Further Thought
date:  05/06/2026
---

The Bible often uses agricultural metaphors to describe our spiritual condition. Hosea 10:12 is one example that captures what we have discussed this week:

`“Sow for yourselves righteousness;`

`Reap in mercy;`

`Break up your fallow ground,`

`For it is time to seek the Lord,`

`Till He comes and rains righteousness on you” (NKJV).`

We sow, reap, break up the hard soil, and seek God to come close to us. The hard soil of our hearts must be prepared and ready for the rain (Holy Spirit) to fall on it. God can give us the desire to prepare the soil, but, ultimately, a relationship with Him is a partnership (see Phil. 2:12, 13). We have to turn our heads toward Him, reach out to Him, and cling onto Him. Then He works in us to do the rest.

One great example of what clinging to God means can be found in these verses: “Your eyes have seen what the Lord did because of Baalpeor: for all the men that followed Baalpeor, the Lord thy God hath destroyed them from among you. But ye that did cleave unto the Lord your God are alive every one of you this day” (Deut. 4:3, 4).

**Discussion Questions**:

`“Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil” (Matt. 6:13). Jesus specifically taught His disciples to pray this way, but do we keep this line of thought in our daily prayers? How regularly do you pray for protection against temptation and sin?`

`How would you explain the precious gift of Christ’s robe of righteousness to a non-Christian or a new believer?`

`How does Christ’s robe of righteousness connect to the message of the sanctuary, which is all about God forgiving and cleaning the repentant sinner? How well do you understand the beauty and richness of this message?`

**Summary**: Identifying our sins in response to the Holy Spirit’s promptings and surrendering self in repentance are vital parts of having a thriving relationship with God. Knowing that we are completely forgiven and covered by Jesus’ robe of righteousness is the most transformative experience for a human being. Not only do we feel the weight of sin lifted, but we feel the love of God surround us as we are drawn closer to Him. This binds us to God, strengthens us spiritually, and compels us to love Him with every fiber of our being.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Faith I Live By, “The Test of Character,” April 23, p. 119.\
The Faith I Live By, “The First Steps in Justification,” April 14, p. 110.\
