---
title: 'Integrated Beings'
date: 21/08/2021
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 7:1–5**

**Integrated Beings**

Human beings are not segmented in their experience of life. For clarity, we may discuss mental and physical health separately, but the two are clearly connected. Poor physical health can lead to feelings of depression, and depressive spells, in turn, can lead to a lack of motivation to achieve positive physical health outcomes. Sometimes the remedy for a mental health challenge may lie in a physical health intervention. An excessive focus on one aspect can blind a person to the best solution for a situation.

In academia, interdisciplinary studies are an attempt to remedy the problem of overspecialization. In most educational systems, the more educated you become, the more specialized you become in one particular area, often at the sacrifice of an awareness of other fields of study and how they may relate to yours. Interdisciplinarity brings together individuals with specializations in different fields, or the expertise from various fields, and applies it to a particular topic. The problems associated with climate change, for instance, would require input from various disciplines to resolve.

As individuals, we too tend to compartmentalize the various aspects of our lives. We may not often consider how our water intake impacts the quality of our hair, or how our screen time affects our eating habits, which affects our hair quality; yet they are all interconnected. God created us as integrated beings so that every choice we make affects us holistically. So it is with our sexuality, that the choices we make with respect to our sexuality impact all other areas of our lives.

Clearly, the inverse is true. Sexuality is simultaneously physical, emotional, relational, social, and spiritual. Denying any one of these aspects of sexuality leads to an impaired experience of sexuality.

•           Deny the importance of the physical aspect of sexuality and you fail to experience sexuality in its intimacy, as in the case of ascetism.

•           Deny the emotional element and you fail to experience sexuality in its intensity, as in the case of the “hooking-up” culture.

•           Deny the relational aspect and you fail to experience sexuality in its depth, as in the case of masturbation.

•           Deny the social ramifications and you fail to experience sexuality in its breadth, as in the case of adultery.

•           Deny the spiritual import and you fail to experience sexuality at its height, as in the case of any and all sexual expression that is not blessed by God.

The intimacy, intensity, depth, breadth, and height of sexuality can only be experienced when we submit our sexual expression to the dictates of God’s Word.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 7:1–5 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `