---
title: 'Choose Life'
date: 22/08/2021
---

#### inGest

Movies of all genres are based on the theme of the battle between good and evil. Whether it is a drama, a romantic comedy, a thriller, a horror flick, or a documentary, the viewer is captivated by the question of whether the good, as defined by the film, will triumph in the end. This theme is so captivating and pervasive because it resonates with our experience of life. We yearn for justice, joy, peace, and harmony, but all around is strife. Even without the biblical context, everyone can recognize that we live in a world filled with controversy.

The Bible defines the origins and nature of this controversy. Our concept of good derives from the Creator who is good (Ps. 100:5). Everything that came from the Creator’s hand was good (Gen. 1:31). At some point in time, one of God’s created beings, an angel, independently and mysteriously chose to deviate from God’s design (Ezek. 28:15). This angel convinced a third of heaven’s angels to rebel against God’s government, and they were subsequently cast out of heaven (Rev. 12:4, 7–9).

Banished to the earth, the fallen angel, the devil, sought to recruit humanity to his rebellion (Gen. 3:1, 5). When the first humans, Adam and Eve, ate of the fruit (Gen. 3:6), they placed humanity on the side of the rebellion in this cosmic conflict (Rom. 5:12). God interposed to create an innate revulsion toward evil and offer the opportunity for humanity to choose to follow Him again (Gen. 3:15) and live (Rom. 6:23). Thanks to God’s intervention, we want good to prevail, but our inclination is to do evil (Rom. 7:18). So the battle between good and evil rages around and within us (2 Cor. 10:4, 5).

A critical point in the Bible’s definition of the cosmic conflict is that it is not just an external war between celestial beings, but that it is personal to every human being. The weapons in this spiritual battle are to bring “every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ” (2 Cor. 10:5). Our minds are the epicenter of this warfare. Anything that affects our mental acuity is a disadvantage. But perhaps more to the point of the verse, “Casting down arguments and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God” refers to any erroneous ideas that challenge God’s established will. Such ideas are a stronghold for the devil and must be eliminated. Our views of sexuality fit squarely here.

In His Word, God has presented the picture of what humanity was intended for when He created us. While sin has marred even our experience of sexuality, to align ourselves with God’s government means to accept His ideal as the model to aspire to. The enemy knows that the battle is based in our minds, so we are inundated with false notions of human sexuality at every turn. If he can win our thoughts on this matter, then behavior that is contrary to divine wisdom will follow.

In some respects, it is impossible to avoid altogether these false ideas. They are being propagated in the music we are passively exposed to as we go about our daily duties. They are infused in our textbooks and newspapers. Our politicians proclaim them, and sometimes even our ministers imitate them. Unless you are going to live under a rock, you will be exposed to unbiblical views of human sexuality. For those instances, we must trust to God to shield our minds from adopting the falsehood (Prov. 30:5).

There are, however, some things that lie within our control. We can choose to watch that movie or not. We can choose whether or not to read that book. We can choose to excuse ourselves from that raunchy conversation. We can decide what music is on our playlist, what podcast we are listening to, and which YouTube channels we subscribe to. Not only can we choose, but given that our eternal destiny depends on what choice we make, we must choose, and choose aright (cf. Deut. 30:19).

` `