---
title:  Further Thought
date:  10/09/2021
---

“We are not always willing to come to Jesus with our trials and difficulties. Sometimes we pour our troubles into human ears, and tell our afflictions to those who cannot help us, and neglect to confide all to Jesus, who is able to change the sorrowful way to paths of joy and peace. Self-denying, self-sacrificing gives glory and victory to the cross. The promises of God are very precious. We must study his word if we would know his will. The words of inspiration, carefully studied and practically obeyed, will lead our feet in a plain path, where we may walk without stumbling. Oh, that all, ministers and people, would take their burdens and perplexities to Jesus, who is waiting to receive them, and to give them peace and rest! He will never forsake those who put their trust in him.”—Ellen G. White, The Signs of the Times, March 17, 1887, p. 161.

“Can you, dear youth, look forward with joyful hope and expectation to the time when the Lord, your righteous Judge, shall confess your name before the Father and before the holy angels? The very best preparation you can have for Christ’s second appearing is to rest with firm faith in the great salvation brought to us at His first coming. You must believe in Christ as a personal Saviour.”—Ellen G. White, Our High Calling, p. 368.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What’s so special about the seventh-day Sabbath that it prefigures God’s heavenly rest for His people? That is, how does the Sabbath rest give us a foretaste of eternity?`

`Atonement means reconciliation and indicates the way back to God. Think about this important statement found in Romans 5:11: “And not only that, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation” (NKJV). If someone were to ask you, “What does it mean to be reconciled to God, and what difference has this reconcilia­tion made in your life,” what would you answer?`

`How can we avoid majoring in minors in our Christian life? What keeps us focused on the big picture offered in God’s Word?`

`Think again about all the mistakes made and the lack of faith the children of Israel manifested in the wilderness. Though the details of their challenges are different from ours (we’re not wandering through a vast desert), what common principles are there? That is, how in our own Christian walk might we be confronted with the same challenges they were, and how can we learn from their mistakes?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We apologize that the daily quotes by Ellen White are temporarily unavailable. We are working toward providing supplemental quotations again in the very near future!