---
title:  Being Together, Doing Together
date:  27/10/2018
---

**Introduction**: Acts 2:44

It started with a direct question to me: “Where do you fellowship?” After a long conversation, we arranged for a face-to-face meeting in her church one Sabbath. Today, Abby is a great friend of mine. We meet quite often, share ideas, and participate in activities together. She introduced me to her friends, and I did the same for her. Meeting her opened a completely new world to me: the world of fellowship, the world of unity, the world of being together, and of doing together.

James Stalker said, “Where two or three are met together, the prayers of one strikes fire from the soul of another; and the latter in his turn leads the way to nobler heights of devotion. And lo! As their joy increases, there is One in their midst whom they all recognize and cling to.”1

The subject of fellowship is rampant in today’s Christian churches. It has led to the creation of fellowship halls, dinners, retreats. However, in many cases, the so-called fellowships do not reflect the true meaning of the word. According to Greek translations, the word fellowship implies “to hold something in common.” In other words, it means unity.

Unity of the church has been an important subject for both the early church and present-day Christians. The Bible takes us to the initial experiences of unity, when believers in Christ “continued steadfastly in the apostles’ doctrine and fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and in prayers” (Acts 2:42, NKJV). Therefore, fellowship is a means by which God accomplishes His will through the church. Believers need to know the meaning of true fellowship, why it is important, and how they can participate in it through their local churches. Going by the words of Stalker, fellowship denotes a relationship that involves more than one person. In fellowship, we develop an inner unity with Christ and show outward solidarity with our fellow believers. In fellowship, we contribute, we share, we participate.

The early church experienced unity through fellowship. We can do the same today. Christian fellowship is not necessarily about having dinners, watching or playing games, or participating in activities with other believers. These activities have their places—but only to the extent that they help accomplish God’s will. Christian fellowship is about doing God’s will together, which breeds church unity.

---

<sup>1. James Stalker, in “59 Quotes About Unity,” Christian Quotes, accessed November 2, 2017, https://www.christianquotes.info/quotes-by-topic/quotes-about-unity/#axzz4ox6zlMe3.</sup>

_Patience Joyner, Nairobi, Kenya_