---
title:  Unity in Diversity
date:  29/10/2018
---

**Testimony**: Acts 2:5

The coming of the Holy Spirit upon believers was a significant experience. Ellen White, in The Acts of the Apostles, offers important insights to help us digest the concept.

“Christ’s ascension to heaven was the signal that His followers were to receive the promised blessing. For this they were to wait before they entered upon their work. When Christ passed within the heavenly gates, He was enthroned amidst the adoration of the angels. As soon as this ceremony was completed, the Holy Spirit descended upon the disciples in rich currents, and Christ was indeed glorified, even with the glory which He had with the Father from all eternity.”1

“During the dispersion the Jews had been scattered to almost every part of the inhabited world, and in their exile they had learned to speak various languages. Many of these Jews were on this occasion in Jerusalem, attending the religious festivals then in progress. Every known tongue was represented by those assembled. This diversity of languages would have been a great hindrance to the proclamation of the gospel; God therefore in a miraculous manner supplied the deficiency of the apostles. The Holy Spirit did for them that which they could not have accomplished for themselves in a lifetime.”2

“Pentecost brought them the heavenly illumination. The truths they could not understand while Christ was with them were now unfolded. With a faith and assurance that they had never before known, they accepted the teachings of the Sacred Word. No longer was it a matter of faith with them that Christ was the Son of God. They knew that, although clothed with humanity, He was indeed the Messiah, and they told their experience to the world with a confidence which carried with it the conviction that God was with them.”3

**React**

`1. What hindrances in spreading the gospel can we have if we don’t allow the Holy Spirit to work with us?`

`2. What did the early believers do differently after they received the Holy Spirit?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 38, 39.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., pp. 39, 40.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., pp. 45, 46.</sup>

_Brian Ongeri, Nairobi, Kenya_