---
title:  Resources for Church Unity
date:  30/10/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 2:47

By singing “May we dwell in unity,”1 a line in the Kenya national anthem in English, the citizens get the inspiration that they are one, regardless of their individual differences. In the church, unity is equally important, which is why the early Christians showed unity with Christ and among themselves.

After the ascension of Christ, the subject of unity became more real for the apostles. The climax came on the Day of Pentecost when Christ unleashed the Holy Spirit upon them (Acts 2:1–13). Through steadfast fellowship and prayer, they experienced a sense of unity that allowed the Holy Spirit to enable them to perform miracles and wonders.

Some may think that church unity is impossible to achieve, given our diverse cultures, backgrounds, and different things that we enjoy. However, God has provided resources through which believers can accomplish and maintain church unity. These resources are mentioned in Paul’s epistle to the Philippians, an early church that faced disunity (Phil. 2:1, NLT).

Encouragement in Christ. One of the things we have in common as believers is the encouragement we have from our relationship with Christ. We may go through various challenges in this world, but we have Christ by our side to comfort us through the pains and to encourage us through difficult times. As believers, we have the greatest promise from Christ: “ ‘I am with you always, to the very end of the age’ ” (Matt. 28:20, NIV).

The love of Christ. Once we accept Him as our Savior, we are assured of Christ’s undivided love. The church cannot remain united if individual churches do not embrace the love of Christ. The love of Christ gave the early church the spirit to continue in fellowship and in prayer. In the absence of the love of Christ, fear sets in (1 John 4:18). We fear rejection; we fear losing our possessions or our lives. However, when we experience the love of Christ, we can surge on in unity, knowing that “if God be for us, who can be against us?” (Rom. 8:31).

Fellowship with the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit came upon the early church on the Day of Pentecost. He directed their actions and enabled them to understand one another even though they came from different backgrounds. Christians today receive the Holy Spirit at baptism. Paul writes, “For we were all baptized by one Spirit so as to form one body—whether Jews or Gentiles, slave or free” (1 Cor. 12:13, NIV). With the Holy Spirit in our midst, we are one body in Christ, with spiritual gifts that we use to glorify Him and to edify one another.

---

<sup>1. “The Kenya National Anthem,” Kenya-Advisor.com, accessed August 6, 2017, http://www.kenya-advisor.com/kenya-national-anthem.html.</sup>

_Dorothy Atieno, Nairobi, Kenya_