---
title:  Keeping Disunity at Bay
date:  31/10/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 5:1, 2

Nearly every church today suffers from the sickness of disunity. It is common to see churches split into factions, fighting among members, and a divided leadership. However, for every sickness, there is a preventive measure, so we need not wait until we are deep in problems to find a solution. Before we dwell much on the subject of disunity in our local churches, it is important to understand that the virus of disunity has evolved over a long time. Disunity existed in the early church just as it exists today.

It is also important to note that church unity begins to wane when members fail to seek guidance from God. Unity does not mean uniformity. We don’t have to be of the same race, tribe, or educational standard to maintain unity. We may have divided opinions on different issues, but if we seek guidance from the Holy Spirit, we can use the rainbow of our diversity to arrive at the best answers.

Church unity was an important ingredient in the early church. It was one of the ingredients that helped propel the gospel after the ascension of Christ. To the church in Ephesus, Paul emphasized the importance of unity in Christ and encouraged Christians there to “keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace” (Eph. 4:3).

In our churches today, we can keep away the virus of disunity by implementing the following steps:

Embrace prayer and Scripture. Where two or more people are involved, divergent views are bound to arise. However, where the Spirit leads, you are more likely to make the right decision.

Respect opinions of others. Every person is entitled to his or her opinion. With that in mind, we should not lose focus on God’s guidance in every discussion.

Be positive. Being optimistic helps us contribute positively to arising matters. If we are yearning for change, we should be part of that change we would like to see. Avoid gossip—talk to people.

Respect church leadership. Support church leadership for the advancement of the mission of the church. Stop comparing your church to other churches. Focus on what you can do to improve the situation.

**React**

`What else do you think could help eliminate church disunity?`

---

_Alphonce Mwaka, Nairobi, Kenya_