---
title:  Generosity—an Ingredient for Church Unity
date:  01/11/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 4:32

To guard the unity of the church, believers should share joyfully the resources that God gives them. An act of generosity among believers is recorded in Acts 4:32–37, when the believers sold their possessions and shared the proceeds with members who lacked. They used their possessions to meet the temporal and financial needs of the church.

One of the characteristics of a healthy believer is to give generously and joyously. “God loves a cheerful giver” (2 Cor. 9:7, NIV) is one of the best principles of generosity. The word cheerful is an adjective, with synonyms such as happy, buoyant, enthusiastic, or upbeat. God wants us to give joyfully, with love. However, how do you and I become joyful givers? “God’s economy has always been around and it will exist long after this world’s economies have been forgotten. God’s economy is never subject to a bull or a bear market; it’s always up!”1

In our local churches, we have members with various financial needs. The entire church body needs financial assistance from time to time, to help propel mission and activities. How can we cheerfully give toward these causes? It is upon us to see that we move together as one body of Christ, regardless of our differences. Generosity is one way to achieve that unity. It worked for the early church, and it’s possible for us to achieve the same results.

“Not only does generosity reduce stress, support one’s physical health, enhance one’s sense of purpose, and naturally fight depression, it is also shown to increase one’s lifespan.” 2 All the same, there is a lot more to generosity in the spiritual perspective. As believers, we should know that God has put us in charge as managers of His wealth.

Everything we possess, including money, belongs to God (Ps. 24:1; Hag. 2:8). God has given us the opportunity to be vessels through which His wealth flows from one cause to another. When we learn the art of giving back to God, He gives us more (Luke 6:38; 1 Sam. 2:30).

**React**

`What are some of the financial and temporal needs that you should address in your church?`

---

<sup>1. David O. Dykes, “The Beauty of Unity and Generosity,” part 3, Ten Habits of Healthy Believers, January 17, 2016, http://www.gabc.org/wp-content/uploads/s011716.pdf.</sup>

<sup>2. Lisa Firestone, “The Benefits of Generosity,” Huffpost, June 13, 2014, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lisa-firestone/the-benefits-of-generosit_b_5448218.html.</sup>

_Fanice Khadira, Nairobi, Kenya_