---
title:  The Unity Factor
date:  02/11/2018
---

**Exploration**: Eph. 1:13

**Conclude**

When Christians unite for a noble cause, it is a good unity. The oneness that early believers experienced is possible for us today. However, for a Spirit-filled unity to take place among us, we need to welcome the Holy Spirit to guide us in our communion with Christ and with one another. The ultimate aim of Christian unity is to glorify the name of Christ with the actions, gifts, and resources we have at our disposal.

**Consider**

- Listing some of the things that distract us from achieving unity as Adventists and then writing some of the ways in which we could avoid such distractions.
- Memorizing Acts 2:42 and using it as the default opening verse whenever you fellowship with your fellow believers. Share experiences with them about the benefits of being united as one body in Christ.
- Writing a poem entitled “Christian Fellowship.” Think of the lines you can include in the poem to make it relevant to your church or community. Recite the poem at home and in church on Sabbath.
- Creating a fellowship group on a social media platform such as Facebook or Whatsapp. Recruit as many members as possible and share your personal experiences on how you can solidify your relationship with Christ.
- Composing a song for unity in your church. Sing it along with members during prayer meetings or on Sabbath.
- Creating a support box for the less fortunate people in your church. Collect shoes, clothes, funds, and other materials to distribute to the members. Share the satisfaction and fulfillment you derive from the project with members of your Sabbath School class.
- Collecting information from various people on their definition of fellowship. Note the differences or similarities to the description of fellowship in Acts 2:42.


**Connect**

Psalm 133:1; 1 Corinthians 1:10; Galatians 3:26–28.

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 13, “Days of Preparation”; chapter 4, “Pentecost.”

---

__