---
title:  God Wins
date:  23/02/2019
---

**Introduction**: Rev. 13:8

Living in the world today, it’s easy to get overwhelmed by the sin and evil that meets us at every turn. It’s easy to think that there is no possible way truth could overcome the sheer weight of error that is propagated throughout our world on a daily basis. And when we turn to Scripture, this seems to be affirmed.

In Revelation 13, we find a beast rising up out of the sea (verse 1), empowered by the dragon, Satan (verse 4; cf. Rev. 12:9), to blaspheme God and everything He stands for (Rev. 13:5). To make matters worse, this beast is even given power to persecute God’s faithful people (verse 7). This beast, the very instrument of Satan on earth, is not only approved of by the inhabitants of the world; it is worshiped—by all the world (verses 3, 4). What hope do God’s people have of remaining faithful through such catastrophe? Has evil triumphed beyond the point of no return? Is God unable to stem the tide of humanity’s rebellion?

We discover the beautiful answer in verse 8, where Scripture tells us that all humanity will worship the beast—all, we find, except those whose names are “written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world.” What a beautiful promise: Satan will never subdue those who are redeemed by the blood of Christ.

Yes, Satan is certainly active in our world today. Yes, the forces of error and evil may appear overwhelming at times. Yes, it may often seem as though truth cannot triumph. But the beautiful and reassuring truth we find in Scripture is that those who trust in God have no reason to despair, for God will preserve them.

In fact, when we turn back a chapter to Revelation 12, we discover that God has already won the victory over Satan (verses 7, 8). The very being who wreaks so much havoc in our world today, who leads us to believe that evil will surely triumph—he’s a defeated foe! In fact, it is precisely because he is defeated, because he knows that his clock is ticking, that he is so intent on deceiving and destroying humanity (verse 12). He’s trying to take us down with him.

The battle may appear overwhelming at times, but from Scripture, we know who will win. God has already gained the victory. The only choice we have to make is whether to remain faithful to the Victor or to give up in despair and join the losing side. As we explore the unfolding story of this great battle between Christ and Satan, let us choose to remain faithful to the One who sacrificed all to lead us to victory.

---

_Seth D. Roberts, Walla Walla, Washington, USA_