---
title:  A Pestilence
date:  25/02/2019
---

**Testimony**: Rev. 13:1–4

“In chapter 13 . . . is described another beast, ‘like unto a leopard,’ to which the dragon gave ‘his power, and his seat, and great authority.’ This symbol, as most Protestants have believed, represents the papacy, which succeeded to the power and seat and authority once held by the ancient Roman Empire. . . .

“ ‘Power was given unto him to continue forty and two months.’ And, says the prophet, ‘I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death.’ And again: ‘He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity: he that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword.’ The forty and two months are the same as the ‘time and times and the dividing of time,’ three years and a half, or 1260 days, of Daniel 7—the time during which the papal power was to oppress God’s people. This period, as stated in preceding chapters, began with the supremacy of the papacy, a.d. 538, and terminated in 1798. At that time the pope was made captive by the French army, the papal power received its deadly wound, and the prediction was fulfilled, ‘He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity.’ ”1

The first few verses in Revelation 13 pack in a lot. For those living in the late 1700s and early 1800s, the French had just captured the pope. It seemed impossible that Rome would recover. Yet, little by little, so slowly that it was almost imperceptible, relations were repaired.

Today, how often do we make little choices or compromises that seem not to matter much, but before we know it we are neck deep in a bad habit or an ill-advised friendship? It is important, especially in the little things of life, that we make sure to stick to the Word of God and what He has told us. It is important to prepare ourselves for what is to come but also to keep the devil and sin from sneaking into our lives and changing us from the image of Christ to the image of Satan.

**React**

`Think of a time when you gave in just a little bit to sin. Did it feel good? Did it make you think that it was not so bad and you would sin again just in this one area if the opportunity came again? Because of that slipup, did you rationalize in your mind that it was OK to sin just a little bit in another area?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 439.</sup>

_Seth Shaffer, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_