---
title:  "Doppelgängers: The Satanic Counterfeit"
date:  26/02/2019
---

**Evidence**: Daniel 7

As we learned in the Logos section, the thirteenth chapter of the Revelation of Jesus is quite an essential part of the book. It reveals the satanic triad. This section shows that Satan, the old serpent, and dragon, is looking to imitate the heavenly Trio’s work. It focuses first on revealing the character and work of the sea beast. Some identifying factors for this beast are the 1,260 days, the mortal wound, and the claim for worship. It is clearly trying to be a doppelgänger of Christ—a duplicate of sorts.

It is important to note the similarity between this beast and the horn from Daniel 7. They are identical in timeframe, purpose, and boastfulness. When you analyze the characteristics of this beast, you can identify it as the apostate church from a.d. 538 to a.d. 1798. It tries to duplicate Christ as the source of authority and power (monitoring of the Scriptures), convinces others that it is the only way to heaven (indulgences), persecutes the saints, and speaks of itself boastfully. Thus, one can see through history the fulfillment of this vision. The second accomplice is described in Revelation 13:11–18. This second beast is representing another power. As with the first beast, the second beast is also trying to duplicate the work of another member of the Trinity—the Holy Spirit. Primarily, it points to the first beast (the Christ counterfeit) and exalts it. Moreover, it has power and makes sure to demonstrate it in an attempt to copycat the miracles performed by one of the Persons of the Godhead. Also, it marks those who worship the beast, in a similar manner that the Holy Spirit seals those who keep the commandments of God and have the faith of Jesus. The earth beast can be identified as another entity in history, the United States of America (USA)—a country that looks like a lamb but speaks like a dragon. With the proclamation of so-called religious liberty, the collaboration with ecumenical movements, and plurality, the USA is a fit candidate to play an important role at the end of the great controversy. Its function and influence will bring attention to the sea beast and its purposes in the future.

All in all, Revelation 13 is about how the doppelgängers are trying to emulate Christ and the Holy Spirit. We ought to be acquainted and full of knowledge about the Godhead in order to recognize these sophisms from the enemy and his associates.

**React**

`How can we teach the ministry of the Holy Spirit in a more concrete way?`

---

_Jose N. Briones, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_