---
title:  Loving the Truth
date:  27/02/2019
---

**How-to**: 2 Thess. 2:9–11; Rev. 13:11–14

In the thirteenth chapter of Revelation, John sees two very different beasts: one that comes up out of the sea, and another that arises out of the earth. The second beast is presented as a deceptive and controlling power whose influence results in many people giving homage to the first beast. At the end of the chapter, John notices that anyone who is deceived by the second beast receives a mark, either in their right hand or in their forehead.

While probably no one wants to receive the mark of the beast, most people are unaware of how to protect themselves from deception. After all, if a person is deceived, is it really his or her fault? How can an individual avoid being taken in by lies? Here are a few practical ideas:

Cultivate a love for truth. 2 Thessalonians 2:9–11 describes the reason why so many people will be deceived by the beasts of Revelation 13. Paul states clearly that God allows people to be deceived if they refuse to love the truth when it is shown to them. If we don’t love the truth, the only other option is to love a lie.

Respond to the convicting power of truth. Have you ever felt as though you needed to do something, but for one reason or another, you never acted on that conviction? 1 Corinthians 6:9, 10 points out that a key area of deception is believing that we can continue to live a life of sin and still experience salvation. Truth will sanctify us if we are willing to respond to its conviction (John 17:17).

Exercise belief and faith in Jesus. Jesus said that He is “the way, the truth, and the life” (John 14:6). Failure to love and respond to truth is failure to love and respond to Jesus. He alone is able to transform our lives and cover us with His righteousness. When we love and believe in Jesus, He assures us that we will experience eternal life (John 11:26).

Experience assurance of salvation every day. Paul states that the Holy Spirit is able to assure us that we are children of God (Rom. 8:16). If we continue to love and respond to the truth that is Jesus, we continue to hold on to our position as heirs of the kingdom of heaven. Jesus encourages us to abide and remain in Him so that we bear fruit that testifies of a Christian life (John 15:4). Salvation is an experience that will keep us from deception only as long as we remain in the experience.

**React**

`Why, do you think, is deception such a central aspect of the mark of the beast in Revelation 13?`

---

_Esther Louw, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_