---
title:  Lessons From the Beast
date:  28/02/2019
---

**Opinion**: Rev. 13:1–18

In studying Bible prophecy, it’s easy to get bogged down by dates, times, and figures and thus lose sight of the message of the prophecy. Revelation 13 actually describes two beasts with multiple characteristics. What does God want us to learn from the descriptions of these beasts?

One of the lessons God teaches through this prophecy is the fact there is a right and a wrong way to worship. While we know that the first beast represents the papacy, this question of worship goes far beyond which church holds our membership records. This prophecy teaches us that no matter how sincere we may be, there are certain forms of worship God cannot accept. This principle is also brought out in the experiences of Cain and Abel (Gen. 4:1–7), the prophets of Baal and Elijah on Mount Carmel (1 Kings 18:20–39), and even in such straightforward proverbs as “There is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way of death” (Prov. 14:12; 16:25, NKJV). Revelation 13 revolves around questions of worship and is a call to examine whether our worship is right.

The collision of true and false worship in the passages above also clarifies that in the end there will be only two sides—either we worship God or we worship the beast. There will be no middle ground. But this is true even now. Matthew 6:24 reminds us that “no one can serve two masters” (NKJV). God wants wholehearted surrender. If we aren’t completely committed to God, we really aren’t committed at all. On the other hand, Revelation 13:16 tells us that the beast accepts partial commitment. The symbolism of the forehead and hand represents our thoughts and actions. The beast is fine with either one— you don’t really have to be convinced his way is right, as long as you live like it.

The warnings of Revelation 13 are followed by a complementary message in the next chapter. Revelation 14 repeats many of the cautions of Revelation 13 and expands on the consequences of our decision. However, it also reminds us that it is possible to live a truly committed and faithful life. May God help us to be counted among the faithful.

**React**

`Revelation 13 reveals that there can be different motivators in worship. What is the basis of true worship, and how can we be sure that our attitude toward spiritual things is not based on tradition, pride, fear, or force?`

---

_Daniela Pusic, Keene, Texas, USA_