---
title:  Action = Truth
date:  01/03/2019
---

**Exploration**: Revelation 13

**Conclude**

John the revelator identifies the sea beast (Rev. 13:1) as a power that “opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme His name, His tabernacle, and those who dwell in heaven” (verse 6, NKJV). The land beast is also described as a false teacher (verse 14). What is specified even more than these beasts’ blasphemies are their violent and forceful actions against the world and the people of God (verses 7, 10, 13, 14, 16, 17). For John, a lack of correct Christian doctrine is important, but even more emphasized and repeated in Revelation 13 is the fact that these beasts act contrary to the character of God, which gives human beings freedom, even if that freedom is against Him. As Christians, it is important that we not only speak the truth but act the truth. Our God is not merely a collection of beautiful ideas; He is a Person of beautiful action, freedom, and love.

**Consider**

- Pondering ways that we may appear freedom-giving or forceful to those we are trying to reach. How can we continue to offer truth in a mission- driven, intentional way and also extend God’s love and freedom to those we are trying to reach?

- Making two lists: One list of the things that you feel that you could compromise or agree with nonbelievers on, and another list of things that you cannot compromise on because of your faith in Jesus. How might you be able to utilize both of these lists to converse in a friendly, winsome way with nonbelievers?

- Going online and looking for stories of people who are currently oppressed by persecution. What would your faith look like in their circumstance?

- Watching “Skit Guys - God’s Chisel” on YouTube. Compare and contrast God’s working in our lives with Satan’s working. What is the difference?

- Writing a prayer of thanksgiving to God for all of the positive ways that you enjoy the freedom He extends to you.

**Connect**

Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, chap. 2, “Persecution in the First Centuries,” and chap. 39, “The Time of Trouble”; Steps to Christ, pp. 18–22.

Francis A. Schaeffer, How Should We Then Live? The Rise and Decline of Western Thought and Culture (F. H. Revell Co., 1976), chap. 1.

David Kinnaman, unChristian (Baker Books, 2007), chap. 8.

---

_Samuel Smith, Berrien Springs, Michigan, USA_