---
title:  Living With Christ
date:  07/03/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Col. 3:1–17, Rom. 1:18, Rom. 6:1–7, Eph. 4:22–24, Deut. 7:6–8, 1 Sam. 16:23.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “But above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfection” (Colossians 3:14, NKJV).

It’s commonly urged not to be so heavenly-minded; otherwise, we’ll be of no earthly good. While true in some sense, there’s an equally important concept that Paul highlights in Colossians 3: if we are too earthly-minded, we will be of no heavenly use to the Lord.

Paul draws our attention to many practical, real-life principles that are born of heaven and can be understood only by those who are “risen with Christ” (Col. 3:1).

Paul’s counsels are very down-to-earth principles that will enhance all our relationships, and not just within the church.

Jesus said, “ ‘Love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you . . . that you may be sons of your Father in heaven; for He makes His sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust’ ” (Matt. 5:44, 45, NKJV).

Sound impossible? It is, humanly speaking. We need to die before we can really live for God. It’s why we must be heavenly-minded if we hope to be of any earthly use to our heavenly Father.

This week we’ll see ways in which living with Christ can make a difference, now and eternally.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, March 14._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We must rise to a higher standard on the subject of faith. We have too little faith. The Word of God is our endorsement. We must take it, simply believing every word. With this assurance, we may claim large things, and according to our faith it will be unto us. . . . If we humble our hearts before God, if we seek to abide in Christ, we shall have a higher, holier experience. . . .\
True faith consists in doing just what God has enjoined, not manufacturing things He has not enjoined. Justice, truth, mercy, are the fruit of faith. We need to walk in the light of God’s law; then good works will be the fruit of our faith, the proceeds of a heart renewed every day.\
We must not in any way make self our god. God has given Himself to die for us, that He might purify us from all iniquity. The Lord will carry on this work of perfection for us if we will allow ourselves to be controlled by Him. . . .\
The work of righteousness cannot be carried forward unless we exercise implicit faith. Move every day under God’s mighty working power. The fruit of righteousness is quietness and assurance forever. If we had exercised more faith in God and had trusted less to our own ideas and wisdom, God would have manifested His power in a marked manner on human hearts. By a union with Him, by living faith, we are privileged to enjoy the virtue and efficacy of His mediation. Hence we are crucified with Christ, dead with Christ, risen with Christ, to walk in newness of life with Him.\
We are not to hold ourselves in our own hands. We are to drop self into the hands of God. . . . Our lack of faith is the reason that we have not seen more of the power of God. We exercise more faith in our own working than in God’s working for us. God designs that everything possible shall be done to enable us to stand heart to heart, mind to mind, shoulder to shoulder. This lack of love and confidence in one another weakens our faith in God.\
We need to pray as we never have prayed before for the baptism of the Holy Spirit, for if there was ever a time when we needed this baptism, it is now. There is nothing the Lord has more frequently told us He would bestow upon us, and nothing by which His name would be more glorified in bestowing, than the Holy Spirit. When we partake of this Spirit, men and women will be born again. . . . Souls once lost will be found, and brought back.—The Upward Look, p. 346.