---
title:  Heavenly-Mindedness
date:  08/03/2026
---

`Read Colossians 3:1–4. What condition does Paul indicate is necessary for us to be heavenly-minded? What do you think that means?`

From a mountaintop, it is possible to survey a vast landscape that is all around you. From time immemorial, mountains have been frequented by those seeking a closer experience with God (see Ps. 121:1, 2). Even human-made mountains, called ziggurats, have been constructed by pagans for a similar purpose—to meet with the gods. Interestingly, the city of Ur, which Abram was called to leave, had a very large ziggurat visible from miles around. But changing one’s elevation will never by itself draw anyone closer to heaven in a spiritual sense. Human effort never could.

Instead, only through a miracle of grace, whereby we died with Christ and were raised with Him (figuratively pictured by baptism [Col. 2:12, 13]), is it possible to draw nearer to heaven.

Notice that from the beginning of Colossians 3, the repeated emphasis on what is above, that is, what there is in heaven: “those things which are above,” “where Christ is,” “things above,” “with Christ in God,” “with Him in glory” (Col. 3:1–4, NKJV).

Admittedly, there is much in the Christian life that defies explanation. How can a person really “die” and “be raised” when, to all ap­pearances, he or she is the same person and has had no such life-and-death experience? There is much that does not make sense to the natural mind, uninfluenced by the Holy Spirit. But to those who are spiritually-minded, because they have received the new heart promised by God, death to sin and being raised with Christ are genuine realities. As the hymn affirms: “You ask me how I know He lives? He lives within my heart.”

Nevertheless, Paul gives these commands because there is a constant need for this spiritual life to be renewed (see 2 Cor. 4:16). We can, indeed, fall away and be lost! And we are never safe from temptation in this life.

We must, therefore, choose daily to “seek those things which are above” (Col. 3:1). Our eternal life is safely “hidden with Christ in God” (Col. 3:3, NKJV), but the outward expression of that life will be anything but hidden.

`Where are your thoughts: usually above or usually below? If the latter, how do you change their direction?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Even Christians of long experience are often assaulted with the most terrible doubts and waverings. . . . You must not consider that for these temptations your case is hopeless. . . . Hope in God, trust in Him and rest in His promises.\
When the devil comes with his doubts and unbeliefs, shut the door of your heart. Shut your eyes so that you will not dwell upon his hellish shadow. Lift them up where they can behold the things which are eternal, and you will have strength every hour. The trial of your faith is much more precious than gold. . . . It makes you valiant to fight the battle of the Lord. . . .\
Satan connects with everyone that will connect with him. If he can get those that have had an experience in religion, they are his most effectual agents to reach just such men and compass their souls with unbelief. You cannot afford to let any doubts come into your mind. Do not please the devil enough to tell about the terrible burdens you are carrying. Every time you do it, Satan laughs that his soul can control you and that you have lost sight of Jesus Christ your Redeemer. . . .\
We are to show forth Him who hath called us out of darkness into His marvelous light. It is by living faith that we rest in that light. It is by living faith that we rejoice in that light every day. We are not to talk our doubts and trials, because they grow bigger every time we talk them. Every time we talk them, Satan has gained the victory; but when we say, “I will commit the keeping of my soul unto Him, as unto a faithful witness,” then we testify that we have given ourselves to Jesus Christ without any reservation, and then God gives us light and we rejoice in Him.\
The soul that loves God, rises above the fog of doubt; he gains a bright, broad, deep, living experience, and becomes meek and Christlike. His soul is committed to God, hid with Christ in God.—Our High Calling, p. 86.

Cultivate a kind, tender, sympathetic heart, and never call these attributes weakness, for they are the attributes of Christ. Be careful of your influence. Let it be of so pure and fragrant a character that you will never be ashamed to have it reproduced in others.\
As drops of water make the river, so little things make up life. Life is a river, peaceful, calm, and enjoyable, or it is a troubled river, always casting up mire and dirt. In this life you may place yourself under the discipline of the Holy Spirit. Through the sanctification of the Spirit you will thus grow more and more like Christ.—That I May Know Him, p. 209.