---
title:  End Earthliness
date:  09/03/2026
---

We hear many slogans today: “End war!” “End deforestation!” “End nuclear weapons!” But one we have probably never heard is “End earthliness!” That just doesn’t fit with the sensibilities of our world. Not that any of the other slogans are wrong or what they advocate is wrong. They’re just very shortsighted, considering the nearness of eternity. Our focus needs to be higher, eternally higher.

`Read Colossians 3:5, 6 (see also Rom. 6:1–7). How do we experience what it means to be dead to self and to earthliness and alive to “those things which are above” (Col. 3:1)?`

Even though spiritually we have died with Christ, our “members”—that is, the temptations that our body and mind present us—need to be put to death.

But we should realize two things in connection with this command.

First, in Colossians 3:1, the Greek form that Paul uses assumes that we have, in fact, been raised with Christ. Second, the command in Colossians 3:5 is a consequence of that fact (“Therefore”). We can put to death earthly things (fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, covetousness, etc.) only because we have been raised with Christ and have His spiritual life and power to put these things out of our minds and lives.

Interestingly, the only other occurrence in Greek of the exact phrase that appears in Colossians 3:6, “the wrath of God,” is in Romans 1:18. God “gives” people up to their own wicked ways, and so His wrath is also “coming” (see Rev. 6:16, 17) “on those who are disobedient” (Col. 3:6, NRSV). In Romans 1:18, Paul refers to “ungodliness and unrighteousness,” equating “uncleanness” (using the same Greek word found in Colossians 3:5) very specifically with people who indulge “the lusts of their hearts, to dishonor their bodies” (Rom. 1:24, NKJV).

How do they dishonor their bodies? First, because they refuse to recognize the Creator but also by “vile passions. For even their women exchanged the natural use for what is against nature. Likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust for one another, men with men committing what is shameful” (Rom. 1:26, 27, NKJV).

`How do we follow the words “mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth” (Col. 3:5)?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Praise the Lord, that we have a compassionate, tender High Priest that can be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. We do not expect rest here. No, no. The way to heaven is a cross-bearing way; the road is straight and narrow, but we will go forward with cheerfulness knowing that the King of glory once trod this way before us.\
We will not complain of the roughness of the way, but will be meek followers of Jesus, treading in His footsteps. He was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. He for our sakes became poor that we through His poverty might be made rich. We will rejoice in tribulation and keep in mind the recompense of reward, the “far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory.”\
We will not have a murmuring thought because we have trials. God’s dear children always had them, and every trial well endured here, will only make us rich in glory. I crave the suffering part. I would not go to heaven without suffering if I could, and see Jesus who suffered so much for us to purchase for us so rich an inheritance; and to see the martyrs who laid down their lives for the truth, and the sake of Jesus. No, no. Let me [be] perfected through sufferings. I long to be a partaker with Christ of His sufferings, for if I am, I know I shall be a partaker with Him of His glory. Jesus is our pattern. Let us study to have our lives as near like Christ’s as possible.\
My soul cries out after the living God. My very being longs after Him. Oh, for to reflect His lovely image perfectly! Oh, for to be wholly consecrated to Him! Oh, how hard it is for dear self to die. We can rejoice in a whole Saviour; one who saves us from all sin. We can be shut in with God where we can daily say, “I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me” “to will and to do of his good pleasure.” Glory be to God. I know that my life is hid with Christ in God.\
The curtain has been lifted. I have seen the rich reward laid up for the saints. I have had a taste of the joys of the world to come, and it has spoiled this world for me. My affections, my interests, hopes, my all is in heaven. I long to see the King in His beauty, Him whom my soul loveth. Heaven, sweet heaven. “I long to be there; and the thought that ‘tis near, makes me almost impatient for Christ to appear.” Praise the Lord for a good hope through Jesus Christ of immortality and eternal life.—Reflecting Christ, p. 350.