---
title:  Renewed in Knowledge
date:  10/03/2026
---

`Read Colossians 3:6–11. How does Paul continue with this train of thought?`

The initial words of Colossians 3:8 signal the dramatic and decisive change from death to life: “But now.” The word “now” in Greek is emphatic. Now, that is, because you are risen with Christ and seek those things that are above, your present life is to show a marked contrast with your former life. Having put to death “what is earthly in you” (Col. 3:5, ESV), “now you must get rid of all such things—anger, wrath, malice, slander, and abusive language from your mouth” (Col. 3:8, NRSV).

Both anger and wrath can describe God’s righteous response to sin (touched on yesterday) as it can for Jesus (Mark 3:5, Rev. 6:16). By contrast, we are urged to “be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath; for the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God” (James 1:19, 20, NKJV). Malice wishes misfortune on another. Slander is designed to defame. Paul also condemns language that is abusive and obscene. Finally, lying to one another is forbidden (compare Lev. 19:11, 18), “since you have put off the old man with his deeds” (Col. 3:9, NKJV).

`What does Paul mean by the “old man” in contrast with the “new man”? See Romans 6:6 and Ephesians 4:22–24.`

The verbs Paul employs for this transformation from the old to the new allude to clothing, as if one took off old filthy garments and was clothed with new white garments (compare Zech. 3:4). A similar old/new distinction is made in regard to the old and new covenants, which are characterized respectively by the external letter of the law and by the law inscribed by the Spirit in the heart (2 Cor. 3:4–18).

These metaphors describe conversion and its effects, which Paul calls a “new creation” (2 Cor. 5:17, NKJV). We are “renewed in knowledge according to the image of Him [Christ]” (Col. 3:10, NKJV), who is the image of the invisible God (Col. 1:15). Gaining a knowledge of Christ through His Word transforms us “into the same image from glory to glory” (2 Cor. 3:18). This places us above all ethnic, geographical, and social boundaries (Col. 3:11), because we are citizens of a higher kingdom.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When Adam came from the Creator’s hand, he bore, in his physical, mental, and spiritual nature, a likeness to his Maker. . . .\
Through sin the divine likeness was marred, and well-nigh obliterated. Man’s physical powers were weakened, his mental capacity was lessened, his spiritual vision dimmed. He had become subject to death. Yet the race was not left without hope. By infinite love and mercy the plan of salvation had been devised, and a life of probation was granted. To restore in man the image of his Maker, to bring him back to the perfection in which he was created, to promote the development of body, mind, and soul, that the divine purpose in his creation might be realized—this was to be the great work of redemption.\
Though the moral image of God was almost obliterated by the sin of Adam, through the merits and power of Jesus it may be renewed. Man may stand with the moral image of God in his character; for Jesus will give it to him.\
It was a wonderful thing for God to create man, to make mind. The glory of God is to be revealed in the creation of man in God’s image and in his redemption. One soul is of more value than a world. . . . The Lord Jesus Christ is the author of our being, and He is also the author of our redemption, and everyone who will enter the kingdom of God will develop a character that is the counterpart of the character of God.\
The Lord, by close and pointed truths for these last days, is cleaving out a people from the world and purifying them unto Himself. Pride and unhealthful fashions, the love of display, the love of approbation—all must be left with the world if we would be renewed in knowledge after the image of Him who created us.\
By the transforming agency of His grace, the image of God is reproduced in the disciple; he becomes a new creature.\
It is the Holy Spirit, the Comforter, which Jesus said He would send into the world, that changes our character into the image of Christ; and when this is accomplished, we reflect, as in a mirror, the glory of the Lord.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 246.

Christ’s love in the heart, revealing through the life its wondrous power—this is the greatest miracle that can be performed before a fallen, quarreling world. Let us try to work this miracle, not in our own power, but in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, whose we are and whom we serve. Let us put on Christ, and the miracle-working power of His grace will be so plainly revealed in the transformation of character that the world will be convinced that God has sent His Son into the world to make men as angels in character and life.\
Those who truly believe in Christ sit together with Him in heavenly places. Let us accept the badge of Christianity. This is not an outward sign, not the wearing of a cross or a crown, but it is something that reveals the union of man with God. Let us “put off the old man with his deeds; and . . . put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him” (Colossians 3:9, 10). The beauty of holiness is revealed as Christians draw near together, blending in Christlike love.—Our Father Cares, p. 306.