---
title:  Character of the New Life
date:  11/03/2026
---

Having described the bad habits and negative qualities that are removed and put away when we come to Christ, Paul proceeds to the positive—like moving from darkness to light.

`Read Colossians 3:12–14. How are believers described, and how do you think it relates to the qualities they are to “put on”?`

Like Israel, called by God to be His special people and reflect His character, believers in Jesus are “the elect of God” (Col. 3:12, NKJV), His “chosen ones” (ESV). Not all, though, live up to this calling. As Jesus said, “ ‘Many are called, but few are chosen ’ ” (Matt. 22:14; compare Matt. 24:22, 24, 31). Paul’s references to the elect have a similar meaning (Rom. 8:33, 2 Tim. 2:10). Also, like Israel, believers are “loved” by God and “holy” (Deut. 7:6–8). This privilege carries with it an important responsibility: to “proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light” (1 Pet. 2:9, NKJV). And we do that by how we live now.

The eight qualities mentioned by Paul are quite a list! “Tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, longsuffering; bearing with one another, and forgiving one another,” and “above all . . . love” (Col. 3:12–14, NKJV). These can spring only from a heart united with Christ, because they describe His character and how He has dealt with us. We are to forgive others “even as Christ forgave you” (Col. 3:13). Love is “the bond of perfection” (Col. 3:14, NKJV), because it is His love toward us that binds us to Him and enables us to truly love others (1 John 4:11, 12).

These qualities impact our relationships in two ways. First, showing love, mercy, kindness, and forgiveness toward others blesses us and others. It is fulfilling to love and bless others. People will normally respond to us in kind, and we continue to receive God’s mercy and forgiveness (Matt. 5:7, Matt. 6:14). Second, and more important, it glorifies God and may encourage others to believe and follow Jesus, because it shows the power of divine grace. “No other influence that can surround the human soul has such power as the influence of an unselfish life. The strongest argument in favor of the gospel is a loving and lovable Christian.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, p. 470.

`How well are you representing Jesus in the way you treat others, especially those who may be unkind to you?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We seldom find two persons exactly alike. Among human beings as well as among the things of the natural world, there is diversity. Unity in diversity among God’s children—the manifestation of love and forbearance in spite of difference of disposition—this is the testimony that God sent His Son into the world to save sinners.\
The unity that exists between Christ and His disciples does not destroy the personality of either. In mind, in purpose, in character, they are one, but not in person. By partaking of the Spirit of God, conforming to the law of God, man becomes a partaker of the divine nature. Christ brings His disciples into a living union with Himself and with the Father. Through the working of the Holy Spirit upon the human mind, man is made complete in Christ Jesus. Unity with Christ establishes a bond of unity with one another. This unity is the most convincing proof to the world of the majesty and virtue of Christ, and of His power to take away sin.\
The powers of darkness stand a poor chance against believers who love one another as Christ has loved them, who refuse to create alienation and strife, who stand together, who are kind, courteous, and tender-hearted, cherishing the faith that works by love and purifies the soul. We must have the Spirit of Christ, or we are none of His.\
In unity there is strength; in division there is weakness.\
The closer our union with Christ, the closer will be our union with one another. Variance and disaffection, selfishness and conceit, are striving for supremacy. These are the fruits of a divided heart, open to the suggestions of the enemy of souls. Satan exults when he can sow seeds of dissension.\
In unity there is a life, a power, that can be obtained in no other way.—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 286.

Those who love Jesus will bring all in their lives into harmony with His will. . . . Through the grace of God they are enabled to keep their purity of principle unsullied. Holy angels are close beside them, and Christ is revealed in their steadfast adherence to the truth. They are Christ’s minutemen, bearing, as true witnesses, a decided testimony in favor of the truth. They show that there is a spiritual power that can enable men and women not to swerve an inch from truth and justice for all the gifts that men can bestow. Such ones, wherever they may be, will be honored of heaven because they have conformed their lives to the will of God, caring not what sacrifices they are called upon to make.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 247.