---
title:  Living the New Life
date:  12/03/2026
---

Paul’s concern for peace and harmony in the church appears clearly in the last verses of Colossians 3. We’ve already looked at God’s peace in some detail (see Lesson 7). Unlike the pax Romana, the pax Christi is not a peace imposed from the outside but is to “rule” us from within. That can happen only if Christ is in control.

`Read Colossians 3:16, 17. What specifically enables Christ to be in control, and what role does music play in all this?`

The language is very descriptive. It pictures the word of Christ making its home in us. That happens when we read the Bible attentively in order to listen and learn from God’s wisdom. Apparently, though the Greek text is somewhat ambiguous, music plays an important role in “teaching and admonishing one another” (Col. 3:16).

But not just any music. Paul uses very specific terminology both here and in Ephesians 5:19: “psalms and hymns and spiritual songs.”

Though we can’t be certain, it seems a distinction is made here between the existing Old Testament collection of psalms and a growing New Testament collection of hymns. “Spiritual songs” may be a more general term for any song of praise related to the spiritual life or the life of the church. The words of the songs are the means of teaching the truth and giving instruction on living the new life of a Christian. Many great hymns of the past few centuries have powerfully uplifting messages of hope and assurance, so needed in a world that so easily drags us all down.

Music’s influence is powerful. David’s playing of the harp had a soothing effect on King Saul (1 Sam. 16:23). But when David became his rival, Saul’s anger and resentment rose (1 Sam. 18:10, 11). Calm classical music has been clinically shown to reduce anxiety, optimize brain function, increase relaxation, help with pain, and increase sociali­zation.

Who among us has not seen for themselves the powerful influence music, for good or bad, can have on our emotions and thoughts? Music—the right music—can be spiritually uplifting.

`We are told that whatever we do, “do all in the name of the Lord Jesus” (Col. 3:17). Can you truly say that you do that? If not, how can you change; that is, what must you stop doing if you cannot do it in the name of the Lord?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Bible religion is not a garment which can be put on and taken off at pleasure. It is an all-pervading influence, which leads us to be patient, self-denying followers of Christ, doing as He did, walking as He walked. . . .\
If no one ever came under your notice who needed your sympathy, your words of compassion and pity, then you would be guiltless before God for failing to exercise these precious gifts; but every follower of Christ will find opportunity to show Christian kindness and love; and in so doing he will prove that he is a possessor of the religion of Jesus Christ.\
This religion teaches us to exercise patience and long-suffering when brought into places where we receive treatment that is harsh and unjust. . . . “Not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing: but contrariwise blessing; knowing that ye are thereunto called, that we should inherit a blessing” (1 Peter 3:9). . . . When Christ was reviled, He reviled not again. . . . His religion brings with it a meek and quiet spirit. . . .\
There is constant need of patience, gentleness, self-denial, and self-sacrifice in the exercise of Bible religion. But if the word of God is made an abiding principle in our lives, everything with which we have to do, each word, each trivial act, will reveal that we are subject to Jesus Christ. . . . If the word of God is received into the heart, it will empty the soul of self-sufficiency and self-dependence. Our lives will be a power for good, because the Holy Spirit will fill our minds with the things of God. . . .\
Of ourselves, we can neither obtain nor practice the religion of Christ; for our hearts are deceitful above all things; but Jesus. . . has shown us how we may be cleansed from sin. “My grace is sufficient for thee” (2 Corinthians 12:9), He says. . . . Looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, we shall catch the light of His countenance, reflect His image, and grow up unto the full stature of men and women in Christ Jesus. Our religion will be attractive, because it will possess the fragrance of the righteousness of Christ. We shall be happy; for our spiritual meat and drink will be to us righteousness and peace and joy.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 248.