---
title:  Further Thought
date:  13/03/2026
---

“When the Spirit of God controls mind and heart, the converted soul breaks forth into a new song; for he realizes that in his experience the promise of God has been fulfilled, that his transgression has been forgiven, his sin covered. He has exercised repentance toward God for the violation of the divine law, and faith toward Christ, who died for man's justification. ‘Being justified by faith,’ he has ‘peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.’ Romans 5:1.

“But because this experience is his, the Christian is not therefore to fold his hands, content with that which has been accomplished for him. He who has determined to enter the spiritual kingdom will find that all the powers and passions of unregenerate nature, backed by the forces of the kingdom of darkness, are arrayed against him. Each day he must renew his consecration, each day do battle with evil. Old habits, hereditary tendencies to wrong, will strive for the mastery, and against these he is to be ever on guard, striving in Christ’s strength for victory. . . .

“The power of a higher, purer, nobler life is our great need. The world has too much of our thought, and the kingdom of heaven too little.

“In his efforts to reach God’s ideal for him, the Christian is to despair of nothing. Moral and spiritual perfection, through the grace and power of Christ, is promised to all. Jesus is the source of power, the fountain of life. . . . In our behalf He sets in operation the all-powerful agencies of heaven. At every step we touch His living power.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 476–478.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What has been your own experience with the promise that you have been “justified by faith”? How has this wonderful promise changed your life? How is that promise linked to the idea that you also “have been raised with Christ”?`

`What does it mean to you to be heavenly-minded? Is it more important than doing earthly good? Where is the balance?`

`Think about the kind of influence your life has on others. And though we tend to think of this in the context of our individual influence, what about our influence as a church? How does your local church impact your local community?`

`Read Colossians 3:11. What should this tell us about the unity we should have in Christ?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

That I May Know Him, “Dare to Be Different!” November 8, p. 318.\
Sons and Daughters of God, “Our Life Is Hid With Christ in God Through Baptism,” October 20, p. 299.\