---
title:  The Far Better Option
date:  22/10/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Philippians 1:19–26**

**The Far Better Option**

Paul wrote Philippians during his first imprisonment in Rome (cf. Phil. 1:7, 13, 14) around the year AD 62. At this point, he was not totally certain about what awaited him, although he hoped to visit the Philippians once more. He was not sure whether he would die at the hand of the Romans or be released and allowed to live. Most Protestant commentators use these verses to “prove” that Paul wanted to die so his immortal soul could go directly into the presence of Jesus. Here is one example from the writings of John Calvin: “What Paul now says is this; ‘I desire to die, because I will, by this means, come into immediate connection with Christ.’ ” (From Calvin’s Commentaries, PC Study Bible formatted electronic database. Copyright © 2005-2006 by Biblesoft, Inc. All rights reserved.)

In our last lesson (2 Cor. 5:1–10) Paul described three options. He could be absent from the Lord in the “tent,” be present with the Lord in the “building,” or be “unclothed.” In this lesson we will study Philippians 1:21–24, which is similar to 2 Corinthians 5:1–10. The options in both passages are three: to live here, to die, or to be translated. Explanatory notes have been added in brackets to show the link between the two passages:

“For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But if I live on in the flesh [in the tent], this will mean fruit [do what is pleasing] from my labor; yet what I shall choose [to live or to die] I cannot tell. For I am hard pressed between the two [living in the tent or dying], having a desire to depart and be with Christ [at translation], which is far better [than the other two options]. Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh [to live in the tent] is more needful for you” (emphasis supplied).

#### inScribe

Read Philippians 1 from the translation of your choice. Write out Philippians 1:19–26. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `