---
title:  Paul’s Unselfish Choice
date:  23/10/2022
---

#### inGest

In the immediately preceding context of our passage (Phil. 1:15–18), the apostle rejoiced because the gospel was being preached. He realized that some were preaching out of selfish ambition and gain and others out of good will and love. Nevertheless, the important thing was “that in every way, whether from false motives or true,” Christ was being preached. And because of this he rejoiced (Phil. 1:18, NIV).

In verse 20, the apostle described his earnest expectation and hope: “I will in no way be ashamed, but will have sufficient courage so that now as always Christ will be exalted in my body, whether by life or by death” (NIV). Then the apostle explained, “For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain” (v. 21). Paul realized that if he continued to live for Christ in the flesh he would be able to continue his labors and bear more fruit (v. 22). On the other hand, if he died, he would be able to rest from the burden of his labors (cf. Rev. 14:13) and in death, glorify God. About ten years earlier Paul had written to the Corinthians about his trials and labors:

Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? So am I. Are they ministers of Christ?—I speak as a fool—I am more: in labors more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequently, in deaths often. From the Jews five times I received forty stripes minus one. Three times I was beaten with rods; once I was stoned; three times I was shipwrecked; a night and a day I have been in the deep; in journeys often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils of my own countrymen, in perils of the Gentiles, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren; in weariness and toil, in sleeplessness often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness—besides the other things, what comes upon me daily: my deep concern for all the churches (2 Cor. 11:22–28).

Paul faced a dilemma. Would it be best to continue living in the flesh and bearing fruit to the glory of God or die and rest from his hard labors? Paul then considered a third option, translation without seeing death, which would be far better than the other two. He could be caught up in the clouds and taken to heaven with those who “are alive and remain” (1 Thess. 4:17).

Nevertheless, Paul was not selfish, and therefore he wrote that to remain in the flesh was more needful for the Philippians (Phil. 1:24). “And being confident of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of faith, that your rejoicing for me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ by my coming to you again” (vv. 25, 26).

**Memorize your favorite verse in Philippians 1. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How can we calibrate our life values so that we address life- death questions as Paul did?`

`If Paul’s life revolved around the gospel preached to others, what purpose does your life revolve around?`