---
title:  With the Lord—When?
date:  24/10/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Sadly, most Christians read their personal opinions into the text as follows: “For I desire for my _immortal soul_ to depart the body at the _very moment of death_ to be in _heaven_ with Christ.” Some Christians even use Near Death Experiences (NDEs) in an attempt to prove that the souls of the righteous depart the body and go to heaven at death. The Bible is clear about when God’s people will depart to be with the Lord, however. It is never at death but rather at translation. Elsewhere, the apostle Paul assures us that the dead in Christ do not go to heaven before the living:

For this we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive and remain shall be caught up _together with them_ in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And thus we shall always be _with the Lord_ (1 Thess. 4:15–17, emphasis supplied).

Paul’s view is clear. The righteous dead will go to the Father’s house at the second coming, not at death! Jesus promised His disciples that He was going to heaven to prepare a place for them and _then_ He would come back to receive them unto Himself (John 14:1–3).

Let’s compare Paul’s three options in 2 Corinthians 5:1–10, 1 Thessalonians 4:15–17, and Philippians 1:21–24:

* 2 Corinthians 5: Alive, unclothed, translated (the better option)
* 1 Thessalonians 4: Alive, asleep, translated (the better option)
* Philippians 1: Alive, dead, translated (the better option)

Paul wrote 2 Timothy during his second imprisonment in Rome. At this point he was certain that a martyr’s death awaited him. He was equally certain, however, that because he had fought the good fight, finished the race, and kept the faith, Jesus would give him the crown of righteousness, not at death but at His appearing: “For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Finally, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will give to me on that Day, and not to me only but also to all who have loved His appearing” (2 Tim. 4:6–8).

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How is translation a real factor in your life? Why or why not?`