---
title:  In Life and Death—God’s Glory
date:  26/10/2022
---

#### inVite

In Phil. 3:20, 21 the apostle Paul explained _when_ he expected to be with the Lord. We presently live on earth, but our citizenship is in heaven, and when Jesus returns, He will transform our lowly body into the likeness of His glorious body, and we will ever be with Him.

The key question, however, is this: What should we be doing while we live in our present body? The apostle Paul serves as a living example. As noted before, seven years earlier (in the time period between writing 2 Corinthians and Philippians, see 2 Cor. 11:22–29), he had described the severe trials and tribulations he had suffered during his missionary journeys. In the Corinthians passage he uses the word _labor_ twice, and in the context of his writings it generally describes hard evangelistic toil. Paul magnified Christ in his life, and he knew that by living in the flesh, his labor of preaching would bear fruit (Phil. 1:22). His preaching had already produced fruit in the whole world (Col. 1:5, 6). In fact, “he wrote to his Philippian brethren that his imprisonment had resulted in the furtherance of the gospel.” (Ellen G. White, _The Acts of the Apostles_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1911), 480.)

Paul wanted to magnify Christ in his body “whether by life or by _death_” (Phil. 1:20, emphasis supplied). At this point in his life, Paul was exhausted, and he knew that death would be gain because it would give him a well-deserved rest from wearisome toil (cf. Rev. 14:13). In what sense would Paul’s death magnify Christ? The martyrdom of Peter illustrates how Christ can be magnified even in death. Shortly before His ascension, Christ told Peter that he would be crucified and his death would glorify God (John 21:18, 19). Peter’s faithfulness in death no doubt convicted many of those who were present at his crucifixion. Stephen’s martyrdom also reveals how God can be glorified even in death. Stephen’s serenity and peace impressed Saul and led to his conversion. Who knows how many millions will rise and thank Peter, Paul, and Stephen for glorifying Christ in death!

While we live in the flesh, we are to bear fruit to the glory of Christ. By our demeanor, our words, and our actions we can bring precious souls to the feet of Jesus. Furthermore, in the testing times ahead, many of God’s faithful children will bear witness at the cost of their lives (Rev. 20:4, 5). Jesus predicted that “they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons. You will be brought before kings and rulers for My name’s sake. But it will turn out for you as an occasion _for testimony_. Therefore, settle it in your hearts not to meditate beforehand on what you will answer; for I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries will not be able to contradict or resist. You will be betrayed even by parents and brothers, relatives and friends; and they will put some of you to death. And you will be hated by all for My name’s sake” (Luke 21:12–17, emphasis supplied).

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you through these texts?`

`How has God been glorified through the seemingly negative experiences of your life?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`