---
title:  A Name Better Than of Sons and Daughters
date:  21/04/2019
---

**Evidence**: Isa. 56:3–7; Matt. 19:12

Some cultures place little value on having children. Perhaps it is because of commercialism’s drive, materialistic values, or postmodern ideas on social structure. On the other hand, other cultures have a heightened value in having children. Self-esteem, self-worth, and self-identity are entirely contingent upon bearing offspring.

When Isaiah 56:3 speaks about eunuchs saying, “Behold, I am a dry tree,” it is evoking the grief, heartache, and pain associated with the inability to have children. Just as a dry tree cannot produce more trees, the eunuch cannot produce children. Personal questions on existence, purpose, identity, and destiny naturally arise. Jesus outlines three types of eunuchs: “There are some eunuchs, which were so born from their mother’s womb: and there are some eunuchs, which were made eunuchs of men: and there be eunuchs, which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven’s sake” (Matt. 19:12). In other words, some are childless by nature, some by external causality, and some by personal choice.

Eunuchs are denied this particular and special relationship: biological children. Just as eunuchs are unable, many others are similarly unable to have particular relationships. Whether it be by nature, by external causality, or by personal choice, there are eunuchs among us today who are single, widowed (no spouse by external causality), orphaned, refugees (no state), or alone for other reasons.

God promises that if these eunuchs “keep my Sabbaths, and choose the things that please me, and take hold of my covenant” (Isa. 56:4), they have a place in His house and “a name better than of sons and of daughters . . . , an everlasting name, that shall not be cut off” (Isa. 56:5). Furthermore, the passage describes other children from other lands, other folds, and other families coming to join the Lord in prayer and worship (Isa. 56:6, 7).

What Isaiah is describing here is that though the circumstances of nature, chance, or choice have resulted in persons being alone, God offers mourners a special opportunity to be part of the covenant promise, to spread the gospel, and to be part of God’s family that transcends genetic lines. Rather than having only biological children and the “name of sons and of daughters,” the Lord promises a better name, an abundance of spiritual children, disciples from all lands, a climactic spiritual experience in God’s own house, and the end of loneliness and isolation as a dry tree.

---

_Kesslyn Jervatski, Franklin Township, New Jersey, USA_