---
title:  Connection Through Him
date:  22/04/2019
---

**Logos**: Gen. 2:18; Eccles. 4:9–12; Matt. 6:33; 19:1–10; John 11:35; 16:32, 33; Gal. 1:10; Phil. 4:11–13; James 5:16

**Companionship (Eccles. 4:9–12; John 16:32, 33; Phil. 4:11–13)**

True companionship entails fellowship and friendship. There are times in this Christian life that we may feel like there are not many like-minded people who truly understand. We might even feel like we are still not quite sure about fully committing to Christ, so we would rather keep our distance from other Christians so that we don’t mess anybody else up. Yet others of us might have the mind-set that it is better to be alone and handle life on our own.

However, when we are alone, it is easy to be discouraged and confused and to stay down when we fall. Ecclesiastes 4 tells us it is better for there to be two people rather than one. When the right two people are together, healthy encouragement, help, and prayer are available! Proverbs 27:17 states, “Iron sharpens iron” (NKJV). There will be times in life when nobody is able to be there. In His great love, Jesus sent us the gift of the Holy Spirit as our Comforter so that we will never be alone (John 16:32)!

**The Unmarried Life (Matt. 6:33; Gal. 1:10; James 5:16)**

It can be hard and lonely when we are trying to follow God while looking for a spouse. It is very easy to search for the values the world offers in a partner instead of the biblical values the Word counsels us to seek. Men ought to look for a woman who displays the values described in Proverbs 31. Women should look for a man who knows true biblical love instead of sinful and selfish love; a man who does not look to please people rather than God, tells the truth, and will pray with his wife. Men and women should seek a spouse who is seeking the kingdom of God first.

**When a Marriage Ends (Matt. 19:1–10)**

Divorce is a tough subject. It was never God’s intention for the marriage relationship. Sin brought the first rift in the unity of marriage, and since then, humans have sometimes chosen the separation of what God made to become one flesh. Because it is a sensitive subject, there are many different opinions and scenarios of divorce. We can only go by what the Bible says. The Bible says the only lawful reason for divorce is sexual immorality (Matt. 19:9, NIV). I know this might not make sense compared to what we believe in today and there are many scenarios where this logic is questioned, but we must trust God’s wisdom that there is a reason why Jesus said this. We may not understand, but we must trust in His love and intentionality.

**Death and Loneliness (Gen. 2:18; 37:34; John 11:35)**

When Adam was created, God said it was not good for man to be alone. As a result, He put Adam to sleep and, from his rib, formed Eve (Gen. 2:18, 21). It is worth noting that while Adam was so close to the Godhead, God still said it was not good for man to be alone. Adam was feeling the emotions God put in him. As living beings made with emotions, we also feel the pains of death. Because of sin, death is a part of life. When Jesus was on earth, even He felt the death of His cousin John the Baptist and His friend Lazarus (John 11:35). Death hurts, but the good news is that we can look to the second coming of Jesus for a grand reunion! Paul reminds us of this hope in 1 Thessalonians 4, writing of when the dead in Christ will rise from their sleep and we all will be able to go back to heaven with Him!

**Spiritually Single (Gen. 2:18; Matt. 6:33)**

It is possible to successfully grow in our spiritual walk while single. The first priority should always be to get closer to God and seek Him first, to learn more about His character and His love for us. Yet, even though Adam was whole in His relationship with God, he still felt a need for human companionship. Genesis 2 shows us that God made Eve for Adam because He knew it was not good for man to be alone (verse 18). While marriage is the ultimate human relationship, it is not the only type of human companionship. As we seek a relationship with God, we may not immediately, or ever, have the marriage relationship (because of the sinful world we live in), but we can be sure that God knows our needs—just as He knew Adam’s need.

---

_Elijah Walters, Huntsville, Alabama, USA_