---
title:  Another Study of Marriage
date:  23/04/2019
---

**Testimony**: Gen. 2:18

“Instituted by God, marriage is a sacred ordinance and should never be entered upon in a spirit of selfishness. Those who contemplate this step should solemnly and prayerfully consider its importance and seek divine counsel that they may know whether they are pursuing a course in harmony with the will of God. The instruction given in God’s Word on this point should be carefully considered. Heaven looks with pleasure upon a marriage formed with an earnest desire to conform to the directions given in the Scripture.”1 Companionship, even marriage, is very important, for it sometimes helps people overcome external and internal challenges that one person cannot overcome alone.

With the many benefits that marriage has that make people want to get married, it also has its challenges. These challenges are amplified when people rush to get married when not prepared for it at all. Many single people rush into relationships they are unprepared for. “A youth not out of his teens is a poor judge of the fitness of a person as young as himself to be his companion for life. After their judgment has become more matured, they view themselves bound for life to each other and perhaps not at all calculated to make each other happy.”2 It’s better to remain single than to be poorly matched in marriage (1 Cor. 7:8, 9).

“The choice of a life companion should be such as best to secure physical, mental, and spiritual well-being for parents and for their children—such as will enable both parents and children to bless their fellow men and to honor their Creator.” 3 Most people think that marriage is all about honoring their wives and husbands but forget that it’s also about honoring God above all. It’s a mistake to think that marriage is all about the couple, not God (1 Cor. 7:32, 33). Marriage is not only about what the husband or wife want from each other but also what God wants from them.

**React**

`1. How can I prepare myself to be with a wonderful person who will one day love me?`

`2. What makes a marriage wonderful according to biblical standards?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, p. 70.</sup>

<sup>2. Ibid., p. 79.</sup>

<sup>3. Ibid., p. 45.</sup>

_Kent Earl Taylor III, Coral Springs, Florida, USA_