---
title:  Not Meant to Be Alone
date:  24/04/2019
---

**How-to**: Gen. 2:18; Eccles. 4:9–12

Have you ever felt lonely? Ever felt like no one is in your corner? Well, truth be told, a lot of people have felt like that. That is why God created companionship. He doesn’t want us to feel alone and distant from other people. In the Garden of Eden, Adam started to feel lonely because he saw each of the animals had a companion. God made sure that he didn’t feel alone for long, and He created Eve. Adam had found his companion. Usually, we meet our friends, and often our best friends, when we are young. Later in life, we find that one person who becomes our companion for life, and we get to live the rest of our days with that person. But what should we do at times when we feel lonely?

Rely on the ones you trust. If you ever feel alone, try to find someone with whom you can talk about your issues. It could be your significant other (Gen. 2:18), the friends in your circle that you absolutely know that you can trust, or even your parents. Most important, remember that you can come to God as well. He understands what you are going through, and He’ll help you through it. Ecclesiastes 4:9–12 says, “Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour. For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him that is alone when he falleth; for he hath not another to help him up. Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can one be warm alone? And if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.”

Remember that the only thing stopping you is you. Sometimes, you are just in a funk that you do not want to be near anybody or even go outside your room. Your friends will try their best to get you out of your funk, but there’s only so much they can do. You have to will your way and focus on the positive, and remember God is always listening.

Do not let your feelings overcome you. At times, feeling alone feels so unbearable, but Deuteronomy 31:6 says, “Be strong and of a good courage, fear not, nor be afraid of them: for the Lord thy God, he it is that doth go with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.”

**React**

`1. What should we do when we feel detached from everyone?`

`2. Why does God want us to have companionship?`

---

_Everett Scott, Sunrise, Florida, USA_