---
title:  Alone, Yet Not Alone
date:  25/04/2019
---

**Opinon**: Ps. 72:12; Isa. 57:1, 2

The Bible affirms that we are not meant to be alone (Gen. 2:18). But before we are ready to commit to a lifelong relationship in marriage, we should allow God to mold and make us the best version of ourselves. One of the best times to learn about ourselves is when we are by ourselves.

What is your family like? Funny? Serious? Smart? Musically inclined? In my family, we have some of everything. Sometimes we may not understand why God put us in the family we are in, but our unique family is there to build us. Have you ever felt as if God took away all the good people in your family? Don’t worry. At some point in our lives, we all will feel lonely, but do not allow that loneliness to lead to depression or other chronically negative emotions. God gave us family to build one another up through love. More than your biological family, you have a family in Christ—brothers and sisters who understand that God is our Father.

God walked on this earth just like we do. He understands what it’s like to feel lonely (Heb. 4:15). In Psalm 72:12, God says that “he will rescue the poor when they cry to him; he will help the oppressed, who have no one to defend them” (NLT). We can go to God in prayer and talk to Him. The Bible admonishes us to ask that we may receive. So talk to God. Tell Him all about your loneliness.

If you struggle with loneliness, know that God cares. His Word tells us that “good people pass away; the godly often die before their time. But no one seems to care or wonder why. No one seems to understand that God is protecting them from the evil to come. For those who follow godly paths will rest in peace when they die” (Isa. 57:1, 2, NLT).

God has never left us. The devil tries to get us to think God has forsaken us, but given the love that God has for us, it would hurt Him to leave us and watch us cry. Talk to God; and whenever you feel alone, remember that God understands and cares.

**React**

`Why do I feel alone? Has God forgotten me? Have I added to someone else’s loneliness?`

---

_Alaysia Bookal, Dania Beach, Florida, USA_