---
title:  Embrace the Loneliness
date:  26/04/2019
---

**Exploration**: John 16:32

**Conclude**

Loneliness is confirmation that we were created by a relational God. It is also evidence that sin has marred God’s original plan for our lives. In that sense, we ought to embrace our loneliness as an experience that could deepen our relationship with God (cf. Rom. 5:3). Rather than pretending that we are not lonely, we need to acknowledge the feeling and allow God to minister to us through it. As we find our primary companionship in Christ, He will lead us to Christian fellowship that will ease the feelings of isolation we may face.

**Consider**

- Journaling about the times when you have felt lonely.
- Listening to the song “That’s What the Lonely Is For” by David Wilcox and “Alone Yet Not Alone” by Joni Eareckson Tada.
- Reflecting on the times in the life of Christ when He was lonely. Consider especially His 40-day fast in the wilderness and His experience in Gethsemane.
- Writing a letter/email/message to someone you know to be lonely, such as a single person, a widow/widower, an orphan, or someone who has recently relocated.
- Spending a weekend alone with God. Ask Him to reveal areas of your life that He needs to shape.
- Composing a song that reflects the lessons you have learned during this week’s study.
- CONNECT


- Ellen G. White, Counsels for the Church, chap. 1, “A Vision of the Reward of the Faithful,” pp. 33–36; Daughters of God, pp. 229–230; The Desire of Ages, chap. 22, “Imprisonment and Death of John,” pp. 214–224.

---

_Nompilo Hlatshwayo, Bulawayo, Zimbabwe_