---
title:  A Walk to Remember
date:   02/03/2026
---

### inGest

Some people assume the Bible is a collection of fairy tales. Many skeptics have never had anybody open the Word to them and show them why the Bible is reliable and trustworthy. Until somebody shows them otherwise, they will think of the Bible only in terms of fiction. Where would you start with a skeptic who is open to hearing why you believe the Bible?

After Christ’s death, the disciples were filled with doubts, fear, and discouragement. To them, the idea of the resurrection was like “idle tales, and they did not believe” (Luke 24:11). The crucifixion had dashed their hopes for the future.

On Sunday afternoon, two heartbroken disciples walked from Jerusalem to Emmaus. Jesus longed to help these disciples consider new possibilities and realities. Jesus could have begun His interaction with these disciples by revealing Himself as the risen Christ who had conquered the grave, but He instead began by using the same tools that are available to us. Rather than working an impressive miracle, He gave them a simple Bible study. In this conversation, Christ demonstrated how we can help skeptics find faith.

Beginning in the books of Moses and proceeding to the Psalms and all the prophets, Jesus explained to them from the prophecies why the Messiah had to suffer and die. Their understanding was awakened as they saw how multiple prophets had foretold the events of the crucifixion many centuries before. These ancient prophecies built their faith in the Scriptures and in Jesus as the Messiah.

After the Bible study, the two disciples recognized that it was Jesus who was speaking with them. Before they could ask further questions, Jesus “vanished from their sight” (Luke 24:31). Perhaps Jesus did not want to begin another conversation that would detract from the Bible study they had just finished. He wanted to leave them with what mattered most. These Scriptures had to continue to be the foundation of their faith. The words of Scripture caused their hearts to burn within them (Luke 24:32), and these same words of Scripture would sustain them in the future.

This story has been repeated countless times in the centuries since. Powerful things happen when the Scriptures are explained to people who seek truth and are open to the moving of the Holy Spirit. Many modern doubters have found faith when somebody clearly explained Bible prophecy to them so they could see why the Bible is trustworthy. Today, people are still confused and struggle to understand the truth. They are waiting for somebody to give them a topical Bible study that will clearly answer their questions from Scripture.

### Questions to explore

`When has your own faith been rekindled by a fresh examination of Scripture?`

`Which of your beliefs do you feel confident in explaining from the Bible? What parts of your faith do you feel weak or unsure about? How can you strengthen what you feel is missing?`