---
title:  Transformed Lives
date:   05/03/2026
---

### inVite

Imagine walking down a dark alley at night with blinking neon lights of motels and shops flickering off and on. As you hurriedly make your way through a sketchy alley, you notice several big figures walking your way. They clench their fists and move toward you. How would you react?

Let’s replay the situation but with some new details. Imagine walking down the same dark alley at night with blinking neon lights of motels and shops flickering off and on. As you hurriedly make your way through the sketchy alley, you notice several big figures walking your way. In their hands are… Bibles. _Did you say… Bibles?_

You didn’t expect that, right? Asked to choose one scenario over the other, most people (believers or not) would gladly pick the second situation over the first. Why? It’s generally accepted that those who read the Bible have experienced transformation on many levels. Whether people admit or not, the Bible (to be more precise, Jesus) changes people.

The Center for Bible Engagement researched this topic in a study that involved 100,000 participants ages eight to eighty from various backgrounds.<sup>1</sup> The research revealed that people who read Scripture four or more times a week were:
- 62% less likely to get drunk
- 59% less likely to view pornography
- 59% less likely to engage in sex outside of marriage
- 28% less likely to struggle with loneliness
- 228% more likely to share their faith with others
- 407% more likely to memorize Scripture

Their findings suggest that four times a week is a tipping point for the study of the Word to become truly transformative in the lives of believers. Those who read Scripture two or three times a week did not have the same protective benefits as did those who read it at least four times a week.

These tips can help you engage with Scripture in a more meaningful way:

**Start with any two Psalms.** Whatever emotional state you’re in, the psalms draw you toward a God who knows your heart.

**Read one chapter of Proverbs a day.** There are thirty-one chapters in Proverbs, one for every day of the month. You will find practical, customized, heavenly wisdom for your day.

**Do character studies.** Start with Abraham (Gen. 12) and read one chapter a day.

**When reading the Bible, ask yourself these questions:**

1. What is the context of the story/text?
2. Why are the events happening or the instructions being given?
3. What does this teach about God?
4. Who in the story/text can you identify with?

Focus on Jesus as the hero of scripture. Not Moses, David, or you—Jesus is the hero.

### Questions to consider

`When speaking with skeptics about the Bible, what would you tell them the Bible has done for you personally or for the people in your family?`

`For somebody who has never read the Bible before, how or where would you suggest they begin?`

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Arnold Cole and Pamela Caudill Ovwigho, _Bible Engagement as the Key to Spiritual Growth: A Research Synthesis_ (2012).