---
title:  inQuire
date:   07/03/2026
---


As we journey through this study, it is important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful study discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Overcoming doubts:**

1. What kind of doubts and questions were Christ’s disciples struggling with after His death? _Luke 24:8–24_
2. How did Jesus use Bible prophecy to rekindle the faith of two doubting disciples? _Luke 24:25–27_
3. Why do you think Jesus used multiple books of the Bible to support His teachings rather than just Psalms or just Isaiah?

`Personal reflection: How has prophecy built your confidence in the Bible and in Jesus?`

**Trusting the Bible:**

1. For somebody who is exploring Christianity, what reasons might you offer to explain why you believe the Bible is true?
2. In what ways is the Bible different from any other book in human history?

`Personal reflection: How has the Bible transformed your life or the lives of your friends and family?`

**Encountering God:**

1. Who is behind Scripture? _2 Pet. 1:20, 21; 1 Thess. 2:13_
2. How does recognizing Jesus as the fulfillment of the Scriptures deepen your worship and relationship with Him? _John 5:39_
3. What can Scripture do for each of us individually? _Ps. 119:105; John 17:17; Heb. 4:12_

`Personal reflection: What are some of the most powerful Bible study experiences you’ve had alone or with friends? How did this impact you?`

### Key takeaways to remember

- Fulfilled Bible prophecy provides some of the strongest evidence in favor of the Bible and Jesus.
- Archeology and history also support the reliability of the Bible.
- Scripture changes lives when people have an encounter with God through the Bible.