---
title:  Daniel, Nebuchadnezzar, and Babylon
date:  02/06/2020
---

In July 2007, a scholar from the University of Vienna was working on a project in the British Museum when he found a tablet from the time of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. On the tablet, he found the name “Nebusarsekim,” the name of a Babylonian official mentioned in Jeremiah 39:3. Nebusarsekim is one of many individuals, both kings and officials, who (thanks to archaeology) have been rediscovered from the time of Daniel and Nebuchadnezzar.

`Read Daniel 1 and Daniel 5. How do the early decisions of Daniel correspond to the acts of God in using him as His servant and prophet to impact millions of people through history?`

Daniel “purposed in his heart” (Dan. 1:8) to remain faithful to God in regard to what he both ate and prayed. These good habits, formed early in his experience, became the pattern that would give him strength for his long life. The result was clear thinking, wisdom, and understanding that came from on high. This was recognized by Nebuchadnezzar and Belshazzar, so that he was elevated to the highest positions in the kingdom. But, perhaps more important, it resulted in the conversion of King Nebuchadnezzar himself (Dan. 4:34–37).

Nebuchadnezzar was the son of Nabopolassar. Together they built up a glorious city, unsurpassed in the ancient world (Dan. 4:30). The city of Babylon was enormous, with more than 300 temples, an exquisite palace, and surrounded by huge double walls 12 and 22 feet thick. The walls were punctuated by eight major gates, all named after the major Babylonian deities. The most famous is the Ishtar gate, excavated by the Germans and reconstructed in the Pergamom Museum in Berlin.

In Daniel 7:4, Babylon is described as a lion with eagle wings. The processional way leading up to the Ishtar gate is lined with images of 120 lions. An image of a huge lion pouncing on a man also was found during excavations and still stands today outside the city. These all testify to the lion as an appropriate symbol for Babylon the Great. Biblical history and its prophetic message are confirmed.

`Daniel 1:8 said that Daniel “purposed in his heart.” What does that mean? What are some things that you need to “purpose in your heart” about doing or not doing?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Daniel and his companions … were courteous, kind, respectful, possessing the grace of meekness and modesty. And now as Daniel and his fellows were brought to the test, they placed themselves fully on the side of righteousness and truth. They did not move capriciously, but intelligently. They decided that as flesh meat had not composed their diet in the past, neither should it come into their diet in the future. And as the use of wine had been prohibited to all those who should engage in the service of God, they determined that they would not partake of it. …

Daniel and his companions knew not what would be the result of their decision. They knew not but that it would cost them their lives, but they determined to keep the straight path of strict temperance, even in the courts of licentious Babylon. … The good behavior of these youth obtained for them favor. They rested their case in the hands of God, following a discipline of self-denial and temperance

in all things. And the Lord cooperated with Daniel and his

fellows.—In Heavenly Places, p. 261.

Our first duty toward God and our fellow beings is that of self-development. Every faculty with which the Creator has endowed us should be cultivated to the highest degree of perfection, that we may be able to do the greatest amount of good of which we are capable. Hence that time is spent to good account which is directed to the establishment and preservation of sound physical and mental health. We cannot afford to dwarf or cripple a single function of mind or body by overwork or by abuse of any part of the living machinery. As surely as we do this, we must suffer the consequences.—Child Guidance, p. 395.

When a soul is truly converted, old habits and natural evil besetments are done away in Christ Jesus and all things become new. Among those who profess to be servants of Christ an earnest purpose should be cultivated, such as Daniel manifested in the courts of Babylon. He knew that God was his strength and his shield, his front guard and his rear guard. Amid the corruptions that surrounded him in the courts of Babylon he kept himself free from those sights and sounds which would allure him and draw him into temptation. When his duties required that he be present at scenes of revelry, intemperance, and basest idolatry, he cultivated the habit of silent prayer, and thus he was kept by the power of God. To have the mind uplifted to God will be a benefit in all times and in all places.

Let the soul cultivate the habit of contemplating the world’s Redeemer. … Help has been laid upon One that is mighty. Jesus has given His life, that every soul might have abundant help in Him.—That I May Know Him, p. 247.