---
title:  Further Thought
date:  05/06/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “David and Goliath,” pp. 643– 648, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “Hezekiah,” pp. 331–339; “Deliverance From Assyria,” pp. 349–366, in Prophets and Kings; section 4.k., in “Methods of Bible Study,” which can be found at http://www.adventistbiblicalresearch .org/materials/bible-interpretation-hermeneutics/methods-bible-study.

“The Bible is the most ancient and the most comprehensive history that men possess. It came fresh from the fountain of eternal truth, and throughout the ages a divine hand has preserved its purity. It lights up the far-distant past, where human research in vain seeks to penetrate. In God’s word only do we behold the power that laid the foundations of the earth and that stretched out the heavens. Here only do we find an authentic account of the origin of nations. Here only is given a history of our race unsullied by human pride or prejudice.”—Ellen G. White, Education, p. 173.

“He who has a knowledge of God and His Word has a settled faith in the divinity of the Holy Scriptures. He does not test the Bible by man’s ideas of science. He brings these ideas to the test of the unerring standard. He knows that God’s word is truth, and truth can never contradict itself; whatever in the teaching of so-called science contradicts the truth of God’s revelation is mere human guesswork.

“To the really wise, scientific research opens vast fields of thought and information.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 8, p. 325.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Flesh out the question asked at the end of Wednesday’s study. Yes, it’s good when we find archaeological evidence that confirms biblical history. But what happens when archaeological evidence is found that is interpreted in ways that contradict the biblical story? What should this tell us about the fact that we must depend on the Word of God as the Word of God and trust it as such, regardless of the claims of archaeology or any other human science?`

`Think about all biblical prophecies that have been fulfilled in the past that, from today’s vantage point, we can see as having been fulfilled. Think, for example, of most of the kingdoms of Daniel 2 and Daniel 7. How can we learn from these prophecies, which have been fulfilled in history, and to trust the Lord about the prophecies that are yet for the future?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Our High Calling, “The Reward of Temperate Habits,” p. 269;

Patriarchs and Prophets, “David and Goliath,” pp. 643–648.