---
title:  The Gathering Time
date:   14/10/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Isaiah 58:1–14**

**The Gathering Time**

The movement that had been so united splintered into various factions in the years following the Great Disappointment, creating a need for the believers to be gathered together again. God chose to use the doctrinal truth of the Sabbath to unite His believers, impressing this precious truth on various people after the time of disappointment. We cannot ignore the influence of the Seventh-day Baptists on this movement. One prime example is Rachel Oakes Preston, who shared the Sabbath truth with Pastor Frederick Wheeler, after a sermon he preached one Sunday. When Pastor Wheeler embraced the Sabbath message, a small Sabbath-keeping congregation formed in Washington, New Hampshire, where the first Sabbath-keeping Adventist church still stands today.

Thomas Preble, another influential Baptist, was the first Millerite-Adventist minister to advocate for the Sabbath in print. Sadly, he only kept the Sabbath for three years, but his piece entitled, “A Tract, Showing that the Seventh Day Should be Observed as the Sabbath, Instead of the First Day” made a huge impact. Joseph Bates read this tract, accepted the truth, and in early 1845 became arguably the most important advocate for the seventh-day Sabbath. Bates authored his own Sabbath tracts, which convinced James and Ellen White to keep the Sabbath as well.

Thomas Preble’s tract also reached Lewis B. Stowell in Paris Hill, Maine. He set it aside, but his fifteen-year-old daughter Marian read it and was convinced to keep the Sabbath. She shared it with her brother Lewis and later with J.N. Andrews, who was also fifteen years old. Both young men accepted the teachings she shared.

The origins of Sabbath keeping within the Adventist movement are humble and scattered, but perhaps that’s what lends it the most power. God used people from wildly different backgrounds, geographical locations, and ages to illuminate a vital truth—a truth that defined the movement and that has since spread to every corner of the world.

#### inScribe

Write out Isaiah 58:1–14 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out a portion of the primary passage. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `