---
title:  The Core Reason
date:   15/10/2023
---

#### inGest

The Seventh-day Baptists believed that truth was self-revelatory—that people would eventually hear about it because it was the truth. They didn’t actively preach about the Sabbath for this reason. In contrast, the Advent believers saw the Sabbath as not just an alternate day for worship but an issue that would have major significance in the end times. This view was first expressed by Joseph Bates, who connected the seventh-day Sabbath to Jesus’ final work in the heavenly sanctuary using Revelation 14:9–13 and Revelation 11:19. He expressed this connection as follows: the judgment takes place in the Most Holy Place of the Sanctuary, where the ark of the covenant is kept, and the law of God, which includes the Sabbath, is kept within the ark. The believers realized that to ignore the Sabbath would lead to ignoring God’s law, the temple in heaven where the law is kept, and the judgment taking place in that temple. Each of the Ten Commandments were at the heart of God’s temple in heaven, but the Sabbath commandment carried special significance because it was the commandment that had been forgotten by so many.

Just like the Sabbath needed to be restored when the Adventist church was founded, it needed to be restored in Isaiah’s time, too. When Isaiah wrote our key passage (Isaiah 58:1–14), he was fervently calling both Israel and Judah back to the true worship of God after years of wandering after idols. There are many appeals, solemn messages, and warnings throughout the book, and chapters 57 to 59 in particular are a call to reformation—for Israel to return to God, rediscover the true spirit of personal religion, and forsake sin once and for all. The Sabbath was trampled again during the 1,260-year prophecy (a.d. 538– a.d. 1798), when the papacy was at its strongest and declared Sunday to be God’s holy day. Isaiah 58 gives hope that the Sabbath will be restored to its rightful place at the end of time.

Isaiah 58 compares and clarifies true and false fasting. The chapter begins by exposing the hypocritical and self-absorbed motives behind Israel’s fasting (vv. 3, 4). This is contrasted with what God expected from them: a life of joyful service motivated by love that culminates in the weekly observance and experience of the Sabbath. This chapter shows that keeping the Sabbath while failing to relieve oppression and serve those in need is not true worship. The Sabbath that God wants to restore in the last days is a wholistic Sabbath experience that involves selfless service, not just a debate about Sunday versus Saturday. God isn’t just looking for people who keep the right day; He’s looking for people who keep the Sabbath the right way.

Sometimes we can get caught up doing what’s right for the wrong reason. Isaiah 58 is an appeal to embrace the Sabbath for all the right reasons—to make it a priority to share God’s blessings with hurting people. May God help our homes, schools, and churches rediscover the deeper significance of the Sabbath.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`While the Sabbath is more widely known today, in what ways does it still need to be restored even amongst those who profess to keep it?`

`Why do you think the Sabbath was chosen as the truth to unite the early Advent believers? Why this doctrine and not another one?`