---
title:  Authentic Worship
date:   16/10/2023
---

### inTerpret

Isaiah 58 highlights aspects of the Sabbath that Revelation later expands on. It’s both a rest and a test of our love for God and our motives in worship, service, and obedience. Faithfully keeping the Sabbath every week at the expense of other weekend opportunities demonstrates our commitment to prioritizing God over every other consideration. Through our Sabbath keeping, people can see that our devotion to God takes priority over sports, parties, work, or even family. Keeping the seventh-day Sabbath rather than another day shows the trust that we put in the supremacy of God’s Word above every form of human tradition and authority.

Unfortunately, it doesn’t seem like Israel really caught on to what Isaiah was trying to teach them about the true meaning of the Sabbath since they reacted with hostility when Jesus healed on the Sabbath many years later (Luke 14:1–6; John 5:1–18). God’s end-time people also need to relearn the basics of Sabbath keeping, such as its full meaning and how we can correctly experience it so we can explain its significance to others.

God desires us to be authentic in all we do. The Israelites had lost that authenticity, especially when it came to the Sabbath. They were busy doing the external (Is. 58:3, 4), which is often the skeleton or structure of religion, but they had allowed their actions to become the sum total of their faith. They had become blind to the reality of who they were, and that lack of self-awareness is the greatest deterrent to the authenticity God seeks.

Isaiah 58:6, 7 introduces a solution that provides the spiritual antidote to their dead, empty forms of religion. This solution, a new fast, includes an outward-focused ministry that Israel had neglected. Their homes were to be places of healing for the oppressed, the hungry, the outcast, and the poor. Jesus reiterated many of the same points to His disciples in Matthew 25, where He emphasized the importance of how they treat “the least of these.” Ellen White’s commentary in The Desire of Ages says, “When the nations are gathered before Him, there will be but two classes, and their eternal destiny will be determined by what they have done or have neglected to do for Him in the person of the poor and the suffering” ([1898], 637). Keeping the Sabbath while neglecting to alleviate suffering and pain is superficial and empty in God’s eyes; it means nothing to Him.

Verses 13 and 14 directly address practical Sabbath keeping by mentioning three things we should avoid doing on the holy day: engaging in idle talk, seeking our own pleasure, and going our own way. In short, don’t be selfish. The Sabbath is about making loving service to God and others a habit, for it is this kind of Sabbath keeping that pleases God, and it is this kind of Sabbath keeping that will change our hearts and root out sin.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying Isaiah 58:1-14? Which parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`In what ways does the practice of just going to church, sometimes all day, and sitting and listening to services not constitute real Sabbath worship?`

`If Isaiah 58:3, 4 were written personally for you today, what types of religious service would be listed in place of fasting?`