---
title:  To Give is to Live
date:   18/10/2023
---

### inVite

The Sabbath is truly one of God’s best gifts to humanity. It’s a period of time dedicated to communion with Him, fellowship with other believers, and selfless service to our Master. Our earthly relationships are very often tested in life, and in the same way, our love for God and commitment to Him is tested through the Sabbath. Jesus asked Peter if he loved Him three times, and He asks us the same question today through the Sabbath: Do we love God more than the opinions of those who don’t share our convictions? Do we love Him more than our family who may not agree with us? Do we love Him more than our jobs and entertainment?

Isaiah highlights that the Sabbath is about living an outward-focused life in which we prioritize loving God and loving others. The lifestyle and worship that Isaiah 58 describes is what Jesus endeavored to show humanity when He was on earth. Jesus embodied the true spirit of the Sabbath every time He served others, especially when He chose to heal on the Sabbath.

In Isaiah 58:6, 7, Jesus asks Israel to do eight things to make their light shine. None of these eight things are difficult to do, but that may be the problem. Sometimes we find it easier to do a “tough” task for Jesus than to do an easy task that lies nearby. Christ asked them to feed the hungry and to bring the poor into their houses so that when they prayed, the Lord would answer (v. 9). Sometimes we travel to the other side of the world to tell people about Jesus when we haven’t even spoken to our neighbors. Jesus challenges this attitude. When we listen to the cries of the poor and minister to their needs, we’re doing for the poor what we hope God will do for us when we cry out to Him. Too often we act like the spoiled child who is very demanding of their parents but unwilling to help with household chores. God is eager to answer our prayers and bless us abundantly, but those blessings will do us no good unless we listen to the needs of others and share God’s blessings with them. The true meaning of the Sabbath captures an outward-focused living in which we are open to receiving God’s fullest blessings and are eager to share them with those around us.

How we live all week is part of how we worship, for by living in obedience to His will we experience the purest joy. The word “delight” is used twice at the end of Isaiah 58 in stark contrast to seeking our own pleasure. God does not want to restrict our joy; He wants us to experience the delight of true Sabbath keeping that not only nurtures a vibrant connection to Him but also a generous spirit toward others.

`Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`In what ways do we see Jesus finding delight in His own Sabbath experience?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response: `