---
title:  Final Words
date:   28/12/2017
---

`Read Romans 15:1–3. What important Christian truth is found in this passage?`

`In what way does this passage capture so much of what it means to be a follower of Jesus?`

`What other verses teach the same idea? Most important, how can you yourself live out this principle?`

`As Paul brought his letter to a close, what varied benedictions did he utter? Rom. 15:5, 6, 13, 33.`

The God of patience means the God who helps His children to endure steadfastly. The word for “patience,” *hupomone*, means “fortitude,” “steadfast endurance.” The word for “consolation” may be translated as “encouragement.” The God of encouragement is the God who encourages. The God of hope is the God who has given hope to humankind. Likewise, the God of peace is the God who gives peace and in whom one may have peace.

`After numerous personal greetings, how does Paul bring his letter to a close? Rom. 16:25–27.`

Paul ends his letter in a glorious ascription of praise to God. God is the one in whom the Roman Christians, and all Christians, can safely put their trust to confirm their standing as redeemed sons and daughters of God, justified by faith and now led by the Spirit of God.

We know that Paul was inspired by the Lord to write this letter in response to a specific situation at a specific time. What we don’t know are all the details regarding what the Lord had revealed to Paul about the future.

Yes, Paul did know about the “falling away” (2 Thess. 2:3), although how much he knew, the text doesn’t say. In short, we don’t know if Paul had any inkling of the role he and his writings, especially this letter, would have in final events. In one sense, it doesn’t matter. What matters is that in these texts Protestantism was born, and in them those who seek to stay faithful to Jesus have had and will have the scriptural foundation upon which to base their faith and commitment, even as the world wonders “after the beast” (Rev. 13:3).
