---
title:  Everlasting and Unquenchable
date:   10/03/2026
---

### inTerpret

If God does not torment people in hell forever and ever, what about the verses that speak of an everlasting fire? For example, Matthew 25:41 says, “Then He will also say to those on the left hand, ‘Depart from Me, you cursed, into the everlasting fire prepared for the devil and his angels.’” First, it is important to note that this fire is prepared for the devil and his angels, which does not need to include any of us. God has made full provision to save people from sharing in the devil’s punishment. This fire is everlasting because its results are irreversible. Nothing can undo the destruction of this fire.

The book of Jude gives an example of everlasting fire, where the author describes the annihilation of the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Verse 7 says they “are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire.” These cities, which were destroyed by eternal fire, were turned to ashes and were never rebuilt. The results of these fires are eternal and will never be reversed. None of this means that the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah are still smoldering or that the inhabitants of these cities are still suffering today. Eternal fire is about eternal destiny, not eternal punishing. The cities of Sodom and Gomorrah were completely destroyed (Gen. 19:29). All the inhabitants of these cities perished and became ashes.

The ancient cities of Sodom and Gomorrah provide a biblical model for what will happen to the wicked when they are destroyed by everlasting fire. The punishment is eternal (Matt. 25:46), but the punishing is temporary. The wicked perish in the flames and are turned to ashes forever. The destroying fire makes their doom eternal.

Also, it is the fire that continues forever, not the wicked. The wicked vanish away, never to return (Ps. 37:20). “Indeed, you will look carefully for his place, but it shall be no more” (Ps. 37:10). The eternal fire consumes them.

Some people misunderstand what the Bible teaches about unquenchable fire (Matt. 3:12). Unfortunately, some people use the term unquenchable fire to claim that the people in the fire never burn up. However, the Bible uses this phrase to teach that nobody can put the fire out. For example, the prophet Jeremiah describes the city of Jerusalem being burned by unquenchable fire. “Then I will kindle a fire in its gates, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be quenched” (Jer. 17:27). This describes a powerful fire that no firefighter can extinguish. This does not mean that Jerusalem is still burning today. It means that nobody could stop the fire.

`What other questions have you encountered about the doctrine of hell? What answers can you provide?`

`Which motivates you more––the love of God or the fear of hell? Why?`

_Memorize Malachi 4:1–3. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._