---
title:  The Fire of God
date:   12/03/2026
---

### inVite

The Bible repeatedly describes God as a “consuming fire” (Heb. 12:29). His holiness and overwhelming glory are so powerful that they purify those who stand before Him. Consider how the glory of a single angel completely overwhelmed the mighty Roman guards at Jesus’ tomb (Matt. 28:2–4). If one angel could have such an impact, imagine the radiant power of Christ in His full glory! At Christ’s second coming, His brightness will destroy the wicked (2 Thess. 2:8), while the righteous will bask in His light.

Moses’ journey of experiencing God’s glory shows how he acclimated to God’s presence over time. First, in Exodus 3:2–6, Moses encountered God in the burning bush, where he saw God’s holiness through a fire that did not consume. Later, in Exodus 24:9, 10, Moses ascended Mount Sinai and saw a vision of God’s feet standing on a sapphire pavement. His exposure to God’s glory deepened in Exodus 33:18–23, when God allowed Moses to see His back, while shielding him from His full radiance. This journey shows how, as Moses spent time with God, he became able to endure greater measures of divine light and glory.

Isaiah 33:14 asks the question: “Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? Who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings?” The following verse states that only the righteous can live in God’s presence. God’s glory, while overwhelming to the unrepentant, gives life to those who trust in Him. Daniel 12:3 paints a beautiful picture of the righteous: “Those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the firmament, and those who turn many to righteousness like the stars forever and ever.” Rather than being burned up, the righteous dwell in the light of Christ’s glory for eternity. Their lives will reflect His glory forever, like the stars in the heavens. This eternal life is a gift from Jesus, who invites us to stand in His presence, purified and ready for the life that He offers to all who believe.

It is the righteous, not the lost, who will dwell forever in the fire of God’s presence! The light of God’s holiness is destruction to the wicked, but for the righteous, it is life giving. The glory of God that purifies and sustains the righteous will forever be their source of light and joy. Ultimately, both the wicked and the righteous will meet their eternal destiny when they encounter the full glory of God’s presence—a glory that brings death to one group and life to the other.

### Questions to consider

`How would your priorities shift if you knew “the day of the Lord” described by Malachi was about to occur?`

`How could you make the love of God be the focus of a Bible study on the destiny of the wicked?`