---
title:  inQuire
date:   14/03/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**The wicked perish:**

1. How will the wicked be destroyed? _Mal. 4:1–3_
2. What is Satan’s punishment? _Ezek. 28:18, 19_
3. What are the only two destinies available to people? _John 3:16; Rom. 6:23_
4. Does the soul continue to live after the body is destroyed in hell? _Ezek. 18:4, 20; Matt. 10:28_
5. How does the Bible describe what ultimately happens to the wicked? _Ps. 37:10, 20; Obad. 1:16_

`Personal reflection: How does the teaching of eternal torment slant people’s view of God and their attitude toward religion? How can a correct understanding of hell help our witness to others?`

**Answering objections:**

1. How does the example of Sodom and Gomorrah help us understand what is meant by eternal fire? _Jude 7_
2. How does the example of Jerusalem help us understand what is meant by unquenchable fire? _Jer. 17:27_

**A universe without pain:**

1. How does God feel about the death of the wicked? _Ezek. 33:11; 2 Pet. 3:9_
2. How would eternal torment of the wicked make it impossible for the saved to enjoy eternity? _Rev. 21:4_
3. In a very ironic way, how do the righteous ultimately get the same thing as the wicked? _Isa. 33:14, 15_

`Personal reflection: When has the topic of hell come up in your conversations with people? How have you been able to share the truth about hell?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- The Bible teaches that the wicked will perish, will be destroyed, turned to ashes, and will be no more.
- Claiming that God torments the wicked forever is incompatible with the character of a loving God.
- The false teaching about hell has resulted in many people turning towards atheism.