---
title:  The Example of Jesus
date:  06/09/2026
---

The context of 2 Corinthians 8 and 9 has to do with Paul’s encouraging members in Corinth to complete a fundraiser for the impoverished churches in Judea. Apparently, they had already committed to doing that (2 Cor. 8:10, 11; 2 Cor. 9:5; see also 1 Cor. 16:1–4), but relationship issues between them and Paul had complicated things. After dealing with these issues (2 Corinthians 1–7), Paul now turns to the conclusion of that task (2 Corinthians 8–9).

Initially, Paul appeals to the example of the Macedonians (2 Cor. 8:1–7), whose extreme poverty did not prevent them from overflowing “in a wealth of generosity” (2 Cor. 8:2, ESV). Yes, poverty and generosity can walk together. However, this admirable generosity of the Macedonians is but a replication of Jesus’ generosity in giving Himself for us (2 Cor. 8:8–15).

`Read 2 Corinthians 8:9. What does this passage tell us about the example of Jesus?`

Paul’s statement in 2 Corinthians 8:9 is one of the most astonishing, powerful, and profound passages in the whole Bible. Paul tells the story of Jesus’ mission but with an incredible economy of words. There is so much theology here. This is the story of redemption but in only one verse.

Even more impressive is that this story is told through financial language. Yes, Jesus was rich. His richness refers to His pre-existence in heaven (John 17:5). He decided to become poor by giving up the heavenly glory and coming to this world of sorrows. He became literally poor (Luke 9:58). Although He was equal with God, He “emptied Himself by taking the form of a bond-servant and being born in the likeness of men” (Phil. 2:7, NASB). “And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross” (Phil. 2:8, ESV).

Jesus gave His own life so that we might live forever with Him. His offering had a purpose: our salvation. Stewardship and mission go together. Second Corinthians 8–9 tells the story of a particular money offering, but this story is based upon Jesus. During this week, we will see theological principles related to the practice of offering gifts that are based on Christ’s offering of Himself.

`Dwell on the birth, life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. When you realize that all this was done for you so that you can have hope of something beyond this miserable existence here, what should your reaction be?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Those who would at last be received into heaven as members of the royal family must here give themselves, body, soul, and spirit, to the service of Him who paid the price of their redemption. All that we have and are belongs to the Lord. “Ye are not your own,” the apostle declares. “For ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God’s” (1 Corinthians 6:19, 20). . . .\
Have you consecrated yourself wholly to the Lord? Can He use you as a vessel unto honor? Are you faithfully acting your part in His cause? To every man God has given his work. He expects every believer to cooperate with Him in the work of soul-saving. When His cause is suffering for means, how can anyone set a price on his services, refusing to take up the cross daily, and practice self-denial for Christ’s sake?\
The fulfillment of the promise that we shall be joint-heirs with Christ rests upon our willingness to deny self. When Christ takes possession of His kingdom, it will be those who on this earth have followed Him in self-denial and sacrifice who will receive the reward of everlasting life.\
Christ’s call to sacrifice and unreserved surrender means crucifixion of self. In order to obey this call, we must have unquestioning faith in Him as the perfect Example, and we must have a clear realization that we are to represent Him to the world. Those who work for Christ are to work in His lines. They are to live His life. His call to unreserved surrender is to be to them supreme. They are to allow no earthly tie or interest to prevent them from giving Him the homage of their hearts and the service of their lives. Earnestly and untiringly they are to labor with God to save perishing souls from the power of the tempter.\
Those who are thus connected with Christ learn constantly of Him, passing through the successive stages of progress in Christian experience. Difficulty and perplexity come to them, that they may learn more perfectly the will and way of Christ. But they pray and believe, and by exercise their faith increases.\
“Take my yoke upon you,” Christ said, as in human nature He lived and worked upon this earth. Constantly He wore the yoke of submission, meeting the difficulties that human beings must meet, bearing the trials that they must bear. The enemy will continually assault us as he assaulted Christ, bringing against us strong temptation. But for everyone there is a way of escape.—The Upward Look, p. 235.