---
title:  Motivation
date:  07/09/2026
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 8:1, 5 and 2 Corinthians 9:7, 9, 13, 15. What is the central message of these passages?`

The language of giving pervades 2 Corinthians 8 and 9: “The grace of God . . . has been given” (2 Cor. 8:1, ESV); “They gave themselves” (2 Cor. 8:5, ESV); “Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart . . . , for God loves a cheerful giver” (2 Cor. 9:7, NIV); “He has given to the poor” (2 Cor. 9:9, ESV); “They will glorify God because of . . . the generosity of your contribution” (2 Cor. 9:13, ESV); “Thanks be to God for his inexpressible gift!” (2 Cor. 9:15, ESV). Second Corinthians 8 and 9 begin and end with the language of giving (2 Cor. 8:1 and 2 Cor. 9:15). We must read these two chapters with the idea of giving in mind. They present at least four major reasons for giving our offerings.

Gratitude for God’s grace (2 Cor. 8:1; 2 Cor. 9:14, 15). Second Corinthians 8–9 begins with a reference to “the grace of God” (2 Cor. 8:1). A little further, Paul says, “You know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ” (2 Cor. 8:9, ESV). The grace of God and Christ is presented here as one’s primary reason for the practice of offering. God did so much for us by giving us Christ. By offering our gifts in return, we recognize the grace of God in our lives.

As with the concept of giving, the term “grace” (in Greek, charis) also occurs repeatedly in 2 Corinthians 8–9. Likewise, the word charis occurs at the beginning and the end of this passage (2 Cor. 8:1; 2 Cor. 9:14, 15). Paul applies this term with different meanings in the passage to emphasize that the grace of Christ in our lives results in grace for others and for thanksgiving.

Desire to follow the example of Jesus (2 Cor. 8:9). Jesus was rich and became poor (remember that these are symbols for His eternal pre-existence and then coming into humanity, respectively). There is only one way for that to have happened: He gave all. As for us, by sharing our offerings, we provide means for others to know Christ.

Desire to share God’s blessings (2 Cor. 9:10, 11). We give to others only because we first received from God. He enriches us so that we can be generous.

Sincere love (2 Cor. 8:8, 24). Giving is the test of sincere and genuine love. It is the most substantial evidence that love dwells in one’s heart. To use an English expression, it is to “put your money where your mouth is.”

`How generous are you? In light of the Cross, how much do you give in contrast to what you could give?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The life of Christ was an ever-widening, shoreless influence, an influence that bound Him to God and to the whole human family. Through Christ, God has invested man with an influence that makes it impossible for him to live to himself. Individually we are ­connected with our fellow men, a part of God’s great whole, and we stand under mutual obligations. No man can be independent of his fellow men; for the well-being of each affects others. It is God’s purpose that each shall feel himself necessary to others’ welfare, and seek to promote their happiness. . . .\
By the atmosphere surrounding us, every person with whom we come in contact is consciously or unconsciously affected. . . .\
Our words, our acts, our dress, our deportment, even the expression of the countenance, has an influence. . . . If by our example we aid others in the development of good principles, we give them power to do good. In their turn they exert the same influence upon others, and they upon still others. Thus by our unconscious influence thousands may be blessed. . . .\
Character is power. The silent witness of a true, unselfish, godly life carries an almost irresistible influence. By revealing in our own life the character of Christ we co-operate with Him in the work of saving souls. It is only by revealing in our life His character that we can co-operate with Him. And the wider the sphere of our influence, the more good we may do. When those who profess to serve God follow Christ’s example, practicing the principles of the law in their daily life; when every act bears witness that they love God supremely and their neighbor as themselves, then will the church have power to move the world.\
But never should it be forgotten that influence is no less a power of evil. To lose one’s own soul is a terrible thing; but to cause the loss of other souls is still more terrible. . . . It is only through the grace of God that we can make a right use of this endowment.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 231.

The religion of Jesus Christ works a reformation in life and character. The true Christian seeks constantly for the grace that changes the objectionable features of the natural character. Instead of speaking sharp, dictatorial words, he speaks the words of encouragement that Christ would speak were He in his place. He shows benevolence to all, not only to the few who may flatter him and exalt his wisdom. The purity and holiness revealed in Christ’s life radiates from the life of the true Christian.\
Christians are to be light bearers in the world, shining amid the darkness of sin and crime. In the kingdom of this world, the principalities and powers that take Satan as their leader must constantly be met. Following Christ’s example of cross bearing and self-denial makes those who receive Christ children of God. “As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name” (John 1:12). They are victors in the battle of life; for they have put on the new man, “which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him” (Colossians 3:10).—The Upward Look, p. 75.