---
title:  Planning
date:  08/09/2026
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 9:7. What does this passage say about the act of offering?`

God’s decision to save the world took place even before the world fell into sin. Christ’s coming to die for us was part of an ancient plan (Rev. 13:8). God was not caught by surprise. He had made plans to give Himself through Jesus. In 2 Corinthians 8 and 9, planning is an essential theological principle that concerns the act of giving. This can be seen in at least two ways:

First, planning involves previous decision. Paul says that “each of you should give what you have decided in your heart” (2 Cor. 9:7, NIV). The Greek word translated as “decided” is the verb proaireō. This verb is a compound form. The particle pro means “beforehand” or “in advance,” and aireō means in this context “to decide.” Thus, proaireō points to a decision made beforehand. Also, by starting his statement with “each of you,” Paul indicates that the given amount will not be the same for everyone. His point was simply that whatever people decide to give, they should do it with careful reflection. They should give what they believe is the right amount for them to give.

Second, planning involves the principle of proportionality. Paul reports that the Macedonians “gave according to their means” (2 Cor. 8:3, ESV). Next, he applies this principle of proportionality to the Corinthians, as well. Encouraging them to finish the task that they had already committed to, he urges them to complete that project by using the resources that they possess (2 Cor. 8:11). He concludes this thought by saying that the offering is given “according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have” (2 Cor. 8:12, ESV). Whereas the Bible defines the proportionality of the tithes, namely, 10 percent, the same does not apply to the offerings. “Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart” (2 Cor. 9:7, NIV) by applying the principle of proportionality. In other words, each one decides which proportion of earnings that he or she will give as an offering. Each one is supposed to give in proportion to what one has. This cannot be done without planning.

`How faithful are you with tithes and offerings, no matter how rich or poor you are? What excuses do you use to hold back from giving when you know that you can do more?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Those who receive Christ by faith will be looked upon by Heaven as precious pearls for which the merchantman has paid an infinite price, and the human agents who find Christ will realize that they have found a heavenly treasure. They will be anxious to sell all that they have in order to buy the field which contains this treasure. As they contemplate the love of God, as the plan of salvation opens to their view, as the mystery of Christ’s condescension becomes plainer to them, as they see the sacrifice that He made for them, they count nothing too dear to give up for His sake. The more they dwell upon the wonderful love of God, the vaster becomes its proportion, and the brightness of the glory of God becomes too glorious for mortal vision.\
The Lord God of heaven collected all the riches of the universe, and laid them down in order to purchase the pearl of lost humanity. The Father gave all His divine resources into the hands of Christ in order that the richest blessings of heaven might be poured out upon a fallen race. God could not express greater love than He has expressed in giving the Son of His bosom to this world. This gift was given to man to convince him that God had left nothing undone that He could do, that there is nothing held in reserve, but that all heaven has been poured out in one vast gift. The present and eternal happiness of man consists in receiving God’s love, and in keeping God’s commandments.\
Christ is our redeemer. He is the Word that became flesh and dwelt among us. He is the fountain in which we may be washed and cleansed from all impurity. He is the costly sacrifice that has been given for the reconciliation of man. The universe of heaven, the worlds unfallen, the fallen world, and the confederacy of evil cannot say that God could do more for the salvation of man than He has done. Never can His gift be surpassed, never can He display a richer depth of love. Calvary represents His crowning work.... The Lord would have His followers enraptured with God through the knowledge of His paternal character.—Our High Calling, p. 13.

Whenever God’s people, in any period of the world, have cheerfully and willingly carried out His plan in systematic benevolence and in gifts and offerings, they have realized the standing promise that prosperity should attend all their labors just in proportion as they obeyed His requirements. When they acknowledged the claims of God, and complied with His requirements, honoring Him with their substance, their barns were filled with plenty.—Counsels on Stewardship, p. 347.