---
title:  Attitude
date:  09/09/2026
---

`Read 2 Corinthians 8:1–5. What possible reason could have been behind the Macedonians’ willingness to give their offerings with such generosity?`

The positive attitude of the Macedonians can be seen in several ways.

First, they gave with abundant joy (2 Cor. 8:2). Paul says that the Macedonians’ “abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity” (2 Cor. 8:2, ESV). He later mentions that “God loves a cheerful giver” (2 Cor. 9:7, NKJV). The Greek word rendered as “cheerful” occurs only here in the New Testament. A term from the same family occurs elsewhere: “The one who does acts of mercy [must do it] with cheerfulness” (Rom. 12:8, ESV). Terms from this word family sometimes appear in extra-biblical literature, with a sense of gladness and happiness. In 2 Corinthians 9:7, being a cheerful giver means giving without reluctance.

Second, they gave with generosity (2 Cor. 8:2). Before Paul mentioned the Macedonians’ generosity, he first referred to their “extreme poverty” (ESV). The word “generosity” (in Greek, haplotētos) appears twice more in 2 Corinthians 8 and 9. Paul says, “You will be enriched in every way so that you can be generous on every occasion” (2 Cor. 9:11, NIV; emphasis supplied), meaning that we are given so that we can then give. A little further, he mentions “the generosity of your contribution” (2 Cor. 9:13, ESV; emphasis supplied). In this passage, being generous in contributing is a way of confessing Christ’s gospel.

Third, they gave “of their own free will” (2 Cor. 8:3, NLT). This means that they gave voluntarily. This becomes even more admirable when one sees they did not give out of their surplus, for their resources were extremely limited. Paul uses the same idea to characterize Titus’s willingness to visit the Corinthians. He went to Corinth voluntarily (2 Cor. 8:17).

Fourth, they gave with a sense that giving is a privilege (2 Cor. 8:4). This attitude is perceptible in the Macedonians’ request to participate in the collection. “They urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in this service” (2 Cor. 8:4, NIV).

Finally, they participated in the collection as an act of total consecration (2 Cor. 8:5). Paul says, “They gave themselves first to the Lord and then by the will of God to us” (2 Cor. 8:5, ESV). Giving oneself to the Lord results in giving oneself to others. The Macedonians expanded their mission involvement beyond financial assistance. That is, giving and being generous is not limited to money alone.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The psalmist’s words, “The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver,” state that which is true from other than a religious point of view. They state an absolute truth, and one that is recognized in the business world. Even in this age of passion for money-getting, when competition is so sharp, and methods are so unscrupulous, it is still widely acknowledged that, for a young man starting in life, integrity, diligence, temperance, purity, and thrift constitute a better capital than any amount of mere money. . . .\
That which lies at the foundation of business integrity and of true success is the recognition of God’s ownership. The Creator of all things, He is the original proprietor. We are His stewards. All that we have is a trust from Him, to be used according to His direction.\
This is an obligation that rests upon every human being. It has to do with the whole sphere of human activity. Whether we recognize it or not, we are stewards, supplied from God with talents and facilities, and placed in the world to do a work appointed by Him.\
To every man is given “his work” (Mark 13:34)—the work for which his capabilities adapt him—the work which will result in greatest good to himself and to his fellowmen, and in greatest honor to God.\
Thus our business or calling is a part of God’s great plan, and, so long as it is conducted in accordance with His will, He Himself is responsible for the results. “Labourers together with God” (1 Corinthians 3:9), our part is faithful compliance with His directions. Thus there is no place for anxious care. Diligence, fidelity, care-taking, thrift, and discretion are called for. Every faculty is to be exercised to its highest capacity. But the dependence will be, not on the successful outcome of our efforts, but on the promise of God. The word that fed Israel in the desert, and sustained Elijah through the time of famine, has the same power today. “Be not therefore anxious, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink?” (Matthew 6:31, RV). . . .\
He who gives men power to get wealth has with the gift bound up an obligation. Of all that we acquire He claims a specified portion. The tithe is the Lord’s. . . . “Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse” (Malachi 3:10) is God’s command. No appeal is made to gratitude or to generosity. This is a matter of simple honesty. The tithe is the Lord’s; and He bids us return to Him that which is His own.\
“It is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful” (1 Corinthians 4:2). If honesty is an essential principle of business life, must we not recognize our obligation to God—the obligation that underlies every other?—Lift Him Up, p. 304.