---
title:  Unity
date:  10/09/2026
---

We have seen that Paul encourages the members in Corinth to get involved in a collection for the impoverished churches in Judea. One of his purposes is to kindle a sense of unity. He wants them to participate, to be part of the mission. He wants to show that the Gentile churches are part of the same family of God as are the Jewish believers in Jerusalem. That is, these people, who were once their opponents, are now, indeed, fellow members with them in God’s new covenant remnant. Paul wants to see the whole Christian family, Jew and Gentile, united in a powerful way that can bear a witness to the church in generations to come.

Titus and two other acclaimed brothers were in charge of the funds. God put this care for the church into the heart of Titus (2 Cor. 8:16). Through the churches, God also chose the two other brothers (2 Cor. 8:18–23). They are called “messengers of the churches, the glory of Christ” (2 Cor. 8:23, NKJV). Whether “the glory of Christ” describes these two faithful brothers or the churches themselves does not matter. Giving offerings is ultimately a signal of loyalty to Christ, the Head of the church (Eph. 4:15).

Second Corinthians 8–9 indicates that the offerings should be given to people appointed by God through the church. The phrases “all the churches” (2 Cor. 8:18, NKJV), “chosen by the churches” (2 Cor. 8:19, NKJV), and “messengers of the churches” (2 Cor. 8:23, NKJV) suggest precisely that. Thus, the following exhortation is not surprising, “Give proof before the churches of your love” (2 Cor. 8:24, ESV).

Bringing offerings to the church—God’s appointed instrument on earth—promotes unity and, at the same time, is the result of a sense of unity (2 Cor. 8:13, 14). Money can be a great unifier. On the other hand, if people’s eyes are not single to the glory of God, money can create division, as well.

`How does Romans 15:26, 27 reveal Paul’s desire for unity here?`

Finally, Paul depicts the collection as service or ministry, as an act of grace, as a blessing, as an act of worship, and also as fellowship. All that from an offering? Think about it.

`How does our giving to fellow churches and missions overseas, often in faraway places, help bring unity to our world church?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Wherever there is life, there is increase and growth; in God’s kingdom there is a constant interchange—taking in, and giving out; receiving, and returning to the Lord His own. God works with every true believer, and the light and blessings received are given out again in the work which the believer does. Thus the capacity for receiving is increased. As one imparts of the heavenly gifts, he makes room for fresh currents of grace and truth to flow into the soul from the living fountain. Greater light, increased knowledge and blessing, are his. In this work, which devolves upon every church member, is the life and growth of the church. He whose life consists in ever receiving and never giving, soon loses the blessing. If truth does not flow forth from him to others, he loses his capacity to receive. We must impart the goods of heaven if we desire fresh blessings.\
As the knowledge of truth is imparted, it will increase. All who receive the gospel message into the heart will long to proclaim it. The heaven-born love of Christ must find expression. Those who have put on Christ will relate their experience, tracing step by step the leadings of the Holy Spirit—their hungering and thirsting for the knowledge of God and of Jesus Christ whom He has sent, the results of their searching of the Scriptures, their prayers, their soul agony, and the words of Christ to them, “Thy sins be forgiven thee.”\
It is unnatural for any to keep these things secret, and those who are filled with the love of Christ will not do so. In proportion as the Lord has made them the depositaries of sacred truth will be their desire that others shall receive the same blessing. And as they make known the rich treasures of God’s grace, more and still more of the grace of Christ will be imparted to them. They will have the heart of a little child in its simplicity and unreserved obedience. Their souls will pant after holiness and more and more of the treasures of truth and grace will be revealed to them to be given to the world.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 63.

The graces of Christ’s Spirit must be cherished and revealed by the sons and daughters of God. By their humility, their penitence, their desire to be like Jesus, to be conformed to His will by practicing His lessons in their daily life, they honor Him. . . .\
“Ye are God’s husbandry” (1 Corinthians 3:9). As one takes pleasure in the cultivation of a garden, so God takes pleasure in His believing sons and daughters. A garden demands constant labor. The weeds must be removed; new plants must be set out; branches that are making too rapid development must be pruned back. So the Lord works for His garden, so He tends His plants. He cannot take pleasure in any development that does not reveal the graces of the character of Christ. The blood of Christ has made men and women God’s precious charge. Then how careful should we be not to manifest too much freedom in pulling up the plants that God has placed in His garden! Some plants are so feeble that they have hardly any life, and for these the Lord has a special care.\
In all your transactions with your fellow men, never forget that you are dealing with God’s property. Be kind; be pitiful; be courteous. Respect God’s purchased possession. Treat one another with tenderness and courtesy. Exert every God-given faculty to become examples to others.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 65.