---
title:  Further Thought
date:  11/09/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “A Liberal Church,” pp. 335–345, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“Those whose hearts are filled with the love of Christ, will follow the example of Him who for our sake became poor, that through His poverty we might be made rich. Money, time, influence—all the gifts they have received from God’s hand, they will value only as a means of advancing the work of the gospel. Thus it was in the early church; and when in the church of today it is seen that by the power of the Spirit the members have taken their affections from the things of the world, and that they are willing to make sacrifices in order that their fellow men may hear the gospel, the truths proclaimed will have a powerful influence upon the hearers.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, p. 71.

“The Lord does not need our offerings. We cannot enrich Him by our gifts. Says the psalmist: ‘All things come of Thee, and of Thine own have we given Thee.’ Yet God permits us to show our appreciation of His mercies by self-sacrificing efforts to extend the same to others. This is the only way in which it is possible for us to manifest our gratitude and love to God. He has provided no other.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, pp. 18, 19.

“How great was the gift of God to man, and how like our God to make it! With a liberality that can never be exceeded he gave, that he might save the rebellious sons of men and bring them to see his purpose and discern his love. Will you, by your gifts and offerings, show that you think nothing too good for Him who ‘gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life’?”—Ellen G. White, in The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, May 15, 1900.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Dwell more on 2 Corinthians 8:9. Why is the example of Jesus so crucial as far as stewardship is concerned?`

`John 3:16 hints that the language of heaven is one of giving. Read John 15:13; Ephesians 5:2, 25; Galatians 2:19, 20; and 1 John 3:16. What do these passages and John 3:16 have in common, and what message can we take from them?`

`Based on your reading of 2 Corinthians 8–9, what are the personal benefits of giving?`

`In addition to giving systematic offerings, what other things can you do to imitate Jesus’ self-giving example?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Our Father Cares, “The Meaning of Communion With God,” October 25, p. 310.\
Reflecting Christ, “What the Spirit of Liberality Will Do,” September 13, p. 270.\