---
title:  "“Sola Scriptura”: Only the Bible"
date:   25/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

### Read for this week's lesson
1 Corinthians 4:1–6; Titus 1:9; Matthew 21:42; Luke 24:27, 44, 45; Isaiah 8:20.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “God’s word is alive and working. It is sharper than the sharpest sword and cuts all the way into us. It cuts deep to the place where the soul and the spirit are joined. God’s word cuts to the center of our joints and our bones. It judges the thoughts and feelings in our hearts” (Hebrews 4:12, ERV).

PROTESTANTS BELIEVE in the “sola Scriptura” rule. “sola Scriptura” means “only the Bible.” This rule shows us that only the Bible teaches us the truth about God and gives us our beliefs. In the Roman Catholic religion, the Bible and tradition, or the teachings of church fathers, decide what is truth. But in the Protestant faith, only the Bible should decide our beliefs and teachings about God.

The Bible helped Protestants to break away from Rome and its false teachings. One of those false teachings was the belief that the Bible was not a true record of history. The Protestants taught that we should believe what the Bible says and the way it says it.

This week, we will look at the teaching of “sola Scriptura,” or only the Bible. We will see that “sola Scriptura” shows us some important rules about understanding the Bible. These rules are necessary. They help us to understand God’s Word, the Bible, clearly. As Protestants, we must remember that only the Bible should decide our beliefs.

_In the Protestant faith, the Bible has the final say in deciding what we believe and teach about God._
