---
title:  THE BIBLE ONLY
date:   26/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

As Seventh-day Adventists, we see ourselves as the “people of the Book,” or the Bible. That is, we are Bible-believing Christians. We accept and teach that the Bible is God’s Word. Only the Bible has the final say about our beliefs. That is why we accept only the Bible, or “sola Scriptura,” as the reason for our faith. The Bible shows us how to live. Experience, human reason, and tradition, or the way the church has done things for a long time, are powerful reasons for our faith. But these reasons do not have the Bible’s power to decide what we believe. God gave us the Bible to keep us safe from false teachings in the church. The “sola Scriptura” rule also protects us from deciding what the Bible teaches without the Bible’s help.

`In 1 Corinthians 4:1–6 (ICB), Paul says we should “ ‘Follow only what is written in the Scriptures.’ ” Why is Paul’s advice so important to our faith?`

Paul’s advice does not mean you cannot learn from history or archaeology. Archaeology is the study of past human life. It includes studying the bones and tools of people from long ago. When we study these subjects, we can learn things that help us to understand the Bible better. Also, Paul’s words do not mean that we cannot use dictionaries and other books to help us to understand the Bible. But in the end, the Bible has the final say over science, history, and dictionaries. The Bible helps us to judge all information to see if it is true or false.

What happens if something we learn does not agree with the Bible? Then we allow the Bible to have the final say about what we should believe. That is part of “sola Scriptura” rule too. We should not go against what the Bible says. Our success in preaching the Good News depends on our staying loyal to this important rule.

“Only the Bible is the true Lord and Master of all writings and teachings on earth.”—Martin Luther, Luther’s Works: Career of the Reformer II, eds. Hilton C. Oswald and Helmut T. Lehmann, (Philadelphia: Fortress Press, 1999), volume 32, pages 11, 12, adapted.

`Read Acts 17:10, 11. How do these verses show us that the Bible has the final say about what we believe?`

_The Bible helps us to judge all information to see if it is true or false._
