---
title:  THE BIBLE AGREES WITH ITSELF
date:   27/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The Bible says that “All Scripture is given by God” (2 Timothy 3:16, ERV). The Bible also says, “No prophecy [special message from God] in the Scriptures [the Bible] comes from the prophet’s [special messenger’s] own understanding. No prophecy ever came from what some person wanted to say. But people were led by the Holy Spirit and spoke words from God” (2 Peter 1:20, 21, ERV). God is the real writer of the Bible. So, we can expect the different parts of the Bible to agree and fit with each other.

`Read Titus 1:9 and 2 Timothy 1:13. Why do all books in the Bible need to agree and fit with each other? How does this help our faith in God grow strong?`

The Bible explains itself. That is because the different parts of the Bible agree with each other. The Bible’s agreement with itself is important. It helps us as a church to have agreement in all our teachings and beliefs. It allows us to understand what is true and what is false. The Bible’s agreement helps us as a church to refuse to accept false teachings and lies. The Bible’s agreement also allows us to correct teachings that go against God’s truth.

Jesus and the Bible writers believe that there is agreement between the different parts of the Bible. They also believe that the Bible came from God. Jesus and the Bible writers show their belief in the Bible’s agreement and value. They often say or write verses from Old Testament books. As an example, Paul in his letters writes verses from Ecclesiastes 7:20; Psalm 14:2, 3; Psalm 5:9; Psalm 10:7; and Isaiah 59:7, 8.

The Bible writers believe that the different parts of the Bible cannot be separated. They believe that the Old Testament and the New Testament agree fully. The New Testament does not teach a new religion. The Old Testament is shown in the New Testament. The New Testament builds on the Old Testament. In this way, the two Testaments are connected. They help explain each other.

The agreement in the Bible between the Old and New Testaments teaches us an important rule. When we study a topic in the Bible, we should look at everything the Bible says about that topic. We should not build our teaching on only one verse or idea.

_When we study a topic in the Bible, we should look at everything the Bible has to say about it._
