---
title:  THE BIBLE IS CLEAR ABOUT WHAT IT TEACHES
date:   28/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

`Read Matthew 21:42; Matthew 12:3, 5; Matthew 19:4; Matthew 22:31; Mark 12:10, 26; Luke 6:3; Matthew 24:15; and Mark 13:14. Jesus talks many times about the Bible. What do His words tell us about its clear message?`

The Bible is clear about what it teaches. The Bible is so clear that it can be understood by children and by adults alike. At the same time, the Bible offers us endless chances to learn new things. Our understanding will grow deeper as we study the Bible more. We do not need a group of Bible experts or holy leaders to explain the Bible to us. As believers, all of us can understand the Bible for ourselves. So, we are encouraged by the Bible to study the Bible for ourselves. We can understand God’s message to us.

“The agreement between Bible writers shows us that we can trust the Bible to mean exactly what it says. Of course, sometimes the Bible will use a symbol or a word picture. Then we can expect the word picture to stand for something else. . . . At the same time, we can expect the Bible to explain its own symbols and word pictures too. Their meanings are not something that only very smart people or Bible experts can understand.”—Handbook of Seventh-day Adventist Theology (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 2000), page 65, adapted. The reason why the Bible is clear is because it uses clear language and words to show us the truth. The Bible writers did not try to give their verses a “private” meaning or a lot of different meanings.

Of course, we will read verses and ideas in the Bible that we do not fully understand. We must remember that we are reading God’s Word, and we are fallen humans. Even so, God’s Word is clear on the things we need to know and understand. This is very true when it comes to the topic of being saved.

Think about a time when you did not understand some verses in the Bible. Later, you understood them better. What did you learn from this experience that can help others who are having the same problem?

_The Bible is so clear that it can be understood by children and adults alike._
