---
title:  THE BIBLE EXPLAINS ITSELF
date:   29/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

The Bible explains the Bible. The Bible can do that because there is agreement between the different books of the Bible. Without this agreement, the Bible could not explain its own meaning. Because of the Bible’s agreement, we can use one part of the Bible to explain another part.

`Read Luke 24:27, 44, 45. How does Jesus use the Bible to explain who He is? How can we use the Bible in the same way to help us to understand its meaning?`

When we let the Bible explain the Bible, we will understand its truth. The Bible shows us what it means. When we let the Bible explain itself, we will not use verses to prove our own ideas. We will think carefully about what each verse is saying and why. We also should look at the verses before and after the verse we are studying. Then we should study the book of the Bible where we found that verse. Also, we must remember what Paul says when we study the Bible: “Everything that was written in the past was written to teach us” (Romans 15:4, ERV). Paul’s words help us to understand that we should study everything that the Bible says about a topic.

“The Bible explains itself. So, we must compare verse with verse. The Bible student should learn to see the different books of the Bible as part of one large book. The student also should see how the different parts of the Bible connect to each other. The student should learn about the Bible’s most important ideas: God’s plan for this earth before sin, the worldwide war between good and evil, and His work to save humans.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 190, adapted.

When we compare verse with verse, we must remember to study the Bible carefully. If possible, we should study the Bible in its original languages. At the very least, find a copy of the Bible that stays true to the meaning of the Hebrew and Greek. We do not need to know Greek and Hebrew to understand the Bible. But our studying the Bible languages can help us to understand a lot. The most important thing we must have when we study is a heart with no pride. We must surrender our hearts to God. Then we must pray and ask Him to make the Bible clear to us. When we do these things, we will have success for sure.

_We must pray and ask God to make the Bible clear to us._
