---
title:  "ELLEN G. WHITE AND “SOLA SCRIPTURA,” OR ONLY THE BIBLE"
date:   30/04/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

Isaiah 8:20 (NLV) gives us advice about the Bible’s teachings and the Law. Why is it always important for us to “ ‘put [our] faith in the teaching and the Law’ ”? What does this verse teach us about how we should view the writings of prophets, or special messengers, that are not part of the Old and New Testaments?

As we saw, “sola Scriptura” is the teaching that only the Bible should decide our beliefs. This causes us to ask an interesting question about Ellen G. White. Her writings are not part of the Bible. At the same time, we believe that God gave her messages for His end-time church. So, the question we must ask is: How do we compare her writings to the Bible?

When we read Ellen G. White’s writings, we see that the Bible is the foundation for everything she taught about God. Again and again, she says that the Bible is God’s Word. In her view, only the Bible should decide our teachings, our faith, and our practices. Most important, Ellen G. White supported the Protestant rule of “sola Scriptura” (read The Great Controversy, pages 9 and 595).

In Ellen G. White’s own view, her writings were a “small light. God used this small light to lead men and women to the bigger light.”—Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, January 20, 1903, adapted. What is the bigger light? The Bible is. Ellen G. White’s writings are not a “shortcut” to our understanding the Bible. Her writings do not replace the Bible. She herself wrote to someone, “You do not know the Bible as well as you should. What if you had studied the Bible with the wish to have a perfect heart? Then you would not have needed my messages in the Testimonies at all. But you failed to study the Bible. So, that is why God sent you the simple messages in the Testimonies. He wanted to touch your heart.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 2, page 605, adapted. Ellen G. White’s writings come to us from the same God who gave us the Bible. But her writings are different from the Bible too. God gave them to us for a different reason. So, her writings are not a new part of the Bible. The Bible has the final say over her writings. Ellen G. White herself never expected her writings to take the place of the Bible. No, she said only the Bible should decide our beliefs and practices.

_We believe that God gave Ellen G. White special messages for His end-time church._
