---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   01/05/2020
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen** 

**ADDITIONAL THOUGHT**:

Read “The Analogy of Scripture,” pages 64–66, in the Handbook of Seventh-day Adventist Theology. Read chapter 20, “Bible Teaching and Study” in the book Education, pages 185–192; “The Primacy of the Word,” in Selected Messages, book 3, pages 29–33.

“Bible students should be taught to study the Bible with the heart of a learner. We must search the Bible’s pages for truth. But we must not search its pages for proof of our own ideas. No, we must study the Bible to know what God says. We can get a true knowledge of the Bible only with the help of the Holy Spirit. The Spirit gave Bible truth to the Old and New Testament writers. Also, we cannot get Bible knowledge unless we live what we learn. So, we must obey everything that the Bible commands us to do....When we study the Bible, we will need to work hard and very carefully to understand it. We must not give up. We must work the way a gold miner works. A miner works hard to dig for gold deep in the ground. In the same way, we also must hunt for the treasure in the Bible.”—Ellen G. White, Education, page 189, adapted.

“You must make the Bible your food and your drink. You must make Bible truth and its rules a part of your life. Then you will know better how to get advice from God. I hold God’s Word, the Bible, in front of you today. God’s Word is precious. Do not say ‘Sister White said this’ and ‘Sister White said that.’ Read in the Bible for yourselves what the Lord God of Israel says to you. Then do what He says.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 3, page 33, adapted.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. What wrong beliefs do people have because they look at only a few verses from the Bible and not everything the Bible says about an idea?`

`2. In Matthew 11:11, (NIrV), Jesus says these words about John the Baptist: “ ‘What I’m about to tell you is true. No one more important than John the Baptist has ever been born.’ ” Jesus says these words about a prophet, or special messenger, who has no writings in the Bible. So, what should Jesus’ words tell us about why a prophet can be a true prophet even if he did not write any book in the Bible?`

_“A miner works hard to dig for gold deep in the ground. In the same way, we also must hunt for the treasure in the Bible.”_
