---
title:  Rules about the Rules
date:  17/09/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Mark 2:23–28**

**Rules about the Rules**

Following their exile and the rebuilding of Jerusalem, the Jews determined not to repeat their forefathers’ errors that had led them into captivity—in particular, Sabbath observance, returning a faithful tithe, and marrying unbelievers (Nehemiah 13). They made rules about the rules to make sure that they would not fall into those sins again. Not only would they refrain from marrying unbelievers, but they would avoid interacting with Gentiles altogether (cf. Luke 10:25–37). They would be meticulous in returning their tithe (cf. Matt. 23:23). And they made rules to guide what was and was not permissible behavior on the Sabbath (cf. John 5:10).

By the time Jesus came to earth, the Sabbath was so weighed down by humanity’s requirements that He had to ask so rudimentary a question as, “Is it lawful on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy it?” (Luke 6:9, KJV). The Sabbath was, for the Pharisees, more about what you ought not do than it was about what you should experience.

Throughout this study we have highlighted the importance of the Sabbath. We end the study by reorienting ourselves to the purpose of Sabbath. This week, we consider Christ’s assertion that the Sabbath was made for humanity and not the other way around.

#### inScribe

Write out Mark 2:23–28 from the translation of your choice. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `