---
title:  Principle and Practice
date:  18/09/2022
---

#### inGest

At the close of the creation week, God rested “from all his work which he had made” (Gen. 2:2). Yet God did not cease from all activity because He holds everything together (Col. 1:17). While He ended His work of creation, He continued His work of sustaining all life. From His example we learn that Sabbath is not a day for complete inactivity. Rather, we must consider what activity is appropriate. Clearly, at a bare minimum, activities that sustain life are appropriate on the Sabbath day.

On any other day, the Pharisees would have found no fault with the disciples’ actions because it was permissible for someone hungry who was passing through a field to eat from said field. The Pharisees’ contention was that the action of preparing the grain for consumption constituted work and was thus forbidden on the Sabbath day (Luke 6:1, 2). To eat the grain was permissible, to take grain from a field you do not own was permissible, but in an attempt to guard the sanctity of the Sabbath, the Pharisees had made it impossible for the grain to satiate its harvester, leading to a miserable Sabbath experience.

It was likely a Sabbath when David reached Nob in 1 Samuel 21. The showbread was replaced once a week on the Sabbath day (1 Chron. 9:32), and the priests would eat the one that had been removed from the sanctuary. Since holy bread was all that Ahimelech had on hand (1 Sam. 21:4), it was likely the Sabbath day. God had instructed that the showbread was to be eaten by the priests (Lev. 24:5–9), yet here were hungry men in need of nourishment.

The Sabbath and the sanctuary service were instituted for the benefit of humanity. In fact, after Christ fulfilled its services, there was no longer a need for the sanctuary rituals (Heb. 7:27). As has been discussed in lesson 4, the Sabbath is a reminder of our place in creation order. How we keep it, then, is subsidiary to its intended purpose. A correct observance of God’s statutes cannot contravene His very nature as the Giver of life. The practice must follow the principle, and not vice versa.

Outside of the context of a loving relationship with the Creator, the Pharisees found themselves serving the Sabbath instead of benefiting from its blessings. No rest can be experienced when the mind is perpetually taxed with the burden of ensuring compliance with a set of rules. In their attempts to keep the Sabbath holy with their supplementary rules, they disregarded what was plainly required in the commandment—to rest.

Ahimelech had it right. The ceremonial law was not the principle but the practice. The disciples were not wrong. To sustain life on the Sabbath day is very much in harmony with God’s own example. Care must be taken not to contravene the principle in the name of preserving the practice.

**Memorize your favorite verse in Mark 2:23–28. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`How do you distinguish between principle and practice?`

`What are situations where it is unclear what the principle is behind a practice required by God or by your church?`