---
title:  Freedom in Action
date:  19/09/2022
---

#### inTerpret

Many hold the misguided view that surrender to God automatically results in a restriction of their freedom, a curtailing of “fun.” This springs from the notion that serving God is nothing more than enslavement to an endless list of “thou shalt not” rules. It requires a mere review of the brief but dense preamble to the Ten Commandments to topple this view.

The sacred record states, “I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage” (Exod. 20:2, KJV). The “land of Egypt” and “house of bondage” are effectively the same thing (as in the case of “Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham”; Israel is Jacob, and Egypt is the land of Ham [Ps. 105:23, KJV]). In these words, God outlines His justification for requiring their obedience: He freed them! He did for them what they could not do for themselves.

Forty years later, in recalling the Ten Commandments from memory, Moses adds this comment regarding Sabbath observance, “And remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out from there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm; therefore the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day” (Deut. 5:15).

God freed the enslaved Israelites first, then He required of them compliance with His entire holy law of righteousness. He freed them so that they might obey Him. Obedience to God is freedom in action at the highest level. Of the Ten Commandments, the freedom component is specifically attached to the fourth, thus associating it with the Israelites’ history.

After healing a woman from severe curvature of the spine, Jesus (who liberated the enslaved Israelites) said, “And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day?” (Luke 13:16, KJV). The sons and daughters of Abraham, bound and bent over by Satan in Egyptian bondage, were loosed by Moses (a type of Christ) that they might serve their liberator. The Sabbath is a weekly celebration of God-given freedom from the ultimate bondage—sin!

Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy and to celebrate the freedom that is found only in Christ. “Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage” (Gal. 5:1, KJV).

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do you reconcile God’s requirement for strict obedience to His law with His promise of perfect freedom?`