---
title:  All Vacancies Filled
date:  21/09/2022
---

#### inVite

The Greek philosopher and polymath Artistotle is credited with saying, “Nature abhors a vacuum.”

Nature certainly does!

After the summary statement of creation in Genesis 1:1, the Bible describes the condition of the raw matter that existed: “And the earth was without form, and void” (Gen. 1:2, KJV). Without form (tohu) and void (bohu). Chaos and emptiness! Creation introduced order and symmetry where there was chaos, and vibrant life where there was emptiness. Creation week lists three shining examples of God filling emptiness.

On the second day of creation, God made the firmament, and on the third day of creation, God separated land from water. On the fourth day, God filled the firmament with heavenly bodies (sun, moon stars). After creating fish and birds on the fifth day, God said “Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth” (Gen. 1:22, KJV). Clearly, the seas, separated from dry land on day three of creation, were empty, as was the firmament that appeared on day two. God filled the seas with fish and filled the skies with birds.

On days three and six, God filled the earth with three forms of life: plant, animal, and human. All vacancies filled!

Physical creation was made with spiritual lessons built into it, which is why Christ (God’s active agent in creation) taught mainly by parables. Ellen White writes, “In the natural world God has placed in the hands of the children of men the key to unlock the treasure house of His Word. The unseen is illustrated by the seen; divine wisdom, eternal truth, infinite grace, are understood by the things that God has made.” (White, Child Guidance, 46.)

The God of creation, the God of the seventh-day Sabbath, knows how to fill vacancies, and He stands ready to fill vacancies in the lives of His children. The vacancy may have been created by death, by divorce, by unemployment, by romantic breakups, or by educational disappointment. The situation may seem to be “without form and void,” but the loving Creator can fill those voids. Nature abhors a vacuum, and so does God!

`In what ways can Sabbath observance make your life more fulfilling?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer: How do you respond to seeing Jesus in this way?`