---
title:  Further Thought
date:  15/08/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “From the Red Sea to Sinai,” pp. 291–302, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

Not long after the incident with the water, the nation faced a new danger (see Exod. 17:8–16)—a fierce and warlike tribe, the Amalekites, attacked them. “The Amalekites were not ignorant of God’s character or of His sovereignty, but instead of fearing before Him, they had set themselves to defy His power. The wonders wrought by Moses before the Egyptians were made a subject of mockery by the people of Amalek, and the fears of surrounding nations were ridiculed. They had taken oath by their gods that they would destroy the Hebrews, so that not one should escape, and they boasted that Israel’s God would be powerless to resist them. They had not been injured or threatened by the Israelites. Their assault was wholly unprovoked. It was to manifest their hatred and defiance of God that they sought to destroy His people. The Amalekites had long been high-handed sinners, and their crimes had cried to God for vengeance, yet His mercy had still called them to repentance; but when the men of Amalek fell upon the wearied and defenseless ranks of Israel, they sealed their nation’s doom.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 300.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Dwell more on the idea of how Jethro learned about the true God from what God did for His people. (See Exod. 18:8–10.) Why does that principle hold true today? Ask yourself and your class: What kind of witness does our church present to the world? What do we say to the world about the nature and character of our God?`

`Read again 1 Corinthians 10:4. What should this teach us about the ancient heresy, which some believe today, that says the Old Testament God was vengeful, hateful, and unforgiving, in contrast to what we see in Jesus? How does this verse show why that belief is wrong?`

`Read again what Ellen G. White wrote above about how the Amalekites had the opportunity to learn about the true God. Contrast their attitude to Jethro’s. What lessons can we learn about why God brought judgment upon not just them but upon many of the tribes in the ancient world that Israel came in contact with?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Hands Toward Heaven,” Conflict and Courage, March 30, p. 95.\
“The Bread of Life,” Youth’s Instructor, November 11, 1897, par. 1–7.\