---
title:  Undesirable
date:  20/04/2022
---

#### inVite

In one of the most famous prophecies of the Messiah, Isaiah painted a picture of One who was to come:

“For He shall grow up before Him as a tender plant,

And as a root out of dry ground.

He has no form or comeliness;

And when we see Him

There is no beauty that we should desire Him.

He is despised and rejected by men,

A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief.

And we hid, as it were, our faces from Him;

He was despised, and we did not esteem Him” (Isaiah 53:2, 3).

Though no explicit physical features are mentioned, the evaluation is: without beauty and comeliness, nothing outward to draw exaltation or attraction. Instead, He is despised and without esteem, rejected and ignored.

By human standards, there is nothing in Jesus for humanity to desire Him. He walked this earth with the lowly fishermen and hated tax collectors, the loose women and the fringes of society. When He gave up His life on the cross, He died the most humiliating death possible, seeming to have failed at every turn: no friends, no power, no money. He was not rich, and His power was never demonstrated in a way that met the standards of worldly greatness.

Jesus didn’t display favoritism. He accepted the fellowship of rich and poor alike, whoever would have Him with sincerity of heart. He instructed both in the kingdom of God, even revealing coveted truths to an ostracized woman while at the well and to a convicted religious leader by night. He didn’t love people more if they did more ministry or religious activities. He seemed to completely ignore the comparative hierarchy He saw around Him, and instead insisted on living the kingdom of God on earth.

The world may see some people as undesirables. But Jesus came as someone apparently undesirable in order to demonstrate the intense desire He has for all to be redeemed by His grace. Whether someone is rich or poor, talented or less so, does not matter. What matters is one’s view of the rich or the poor. Neither one validates or invalidates, elevates or pushes down. All are equal recipients of His unrelenting love and grace in the kingdom of God. He invites His followers to continue living out this reality.

` `