---
title:  You Want Me to Do What?
date:  19/07/2025
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: Exodus 5, 6

**You Want Me to Do What?**

Sometimes God calls people to do extraordinary things, which brings increased responsibility to live faithfully for God. Before leading others, we need to get our own house in order.

Moses faced this. After leaving his father-in-law’s house to fulfill God’s command, the Lord interrupted Moses’ with a startling message (v. 24). This meeting was entirely different from the one at the burning bush. Moses had obeyed and set out for Egypt to lead the Israelites out of slavery, but that didn’t mean God blessed everything Moses was doing. When we see the Lord confront Moses this time, it’s quite shocking to discover that God intended to kill him.

This abrupt and brief interruption in the story’s flow should not diminish its significance. The text doesn’t even pause to say why God came to kill Moses. However, Moses’ wife, Zipporah, knew what the problem was, and rushed to make it right by circumcising her son. With that sign of the covenant completed, the Lord let Moses go (vv. 25, 26). Moses was well aware that “he had failed to comply with the condition by which his child could be entitled to the blessings of God’s covenant with Israel; and such a neglect on the part of their chosen leader could not but lessen the force of the divine precepts upon the people” (Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets [1890], 256). Zipporah’s role in this brief segment suggests she may have been involved in her son not being circumcised. She and Moses were confronted by God’s requirements and the significance of following even what seems to be something trivial. God could not appoint Moses as leader of His people while he was neglecting a known duty.

#### inScribe

Write out Exodus 5:1–5 from the translation of your choice, or write out the passage in your own words. You may also outline or mind-map all of Exodus 5 and 6.

` `