---
title:  “Let My People Go!”
date:  20/07/2025
---

#### inGest

Once his son was circumcised and the covenant fulfilled, Moses returned to the mountain of God and there met his brother, Aaron. The bigger problem was what they were called to do in Egypt: demand that the most powerful man in the world let the Israelite slaves go free. Egypt was the most powerful nation on earth and already had an impressive history many centuries old. It was the most significant culture of antiquity. It supplied much of the wealth and food of the ancient world up until the time of the Roman Empire. Moses and Aaron were called to an enormous challenge!

God instructed Moses and Aaron to ask only for permission to take the Hebrews for a three-day journey into the wilderness to sacrifice to the Lord their God (Exod. 3:18). We don’t know why Israel’s liberation began with a request for only three days. Some scholars suggest Moses was being dishonest in asking for three days, since he knew the plan was to free the Israelites entirely. However, the Bible is clear that Moses was doing what God told him to do. So then why did God tell Moses to ask for this three-day journey? Perhaps He was trying to soften the blow of removing Pharaoh’s workforce. It’s also possible that this refers to the original sign God gave Moses back at Mount Horeb—that the Israelites would worship Him at Horeb, the mountain of God. In any case, Pharaoh clearly saw this request for exactly what it was: an opportunity to rest from their work.

The ensuing controversy was about much more than the Israelites’ right to rest from their labors. It was about their right to worship God. For Pharaoh this was an intolerable challenge from some unknown, competing god. The pharaohs were fixated on portraying their close connection to the gods. The monuments we’ve found indicate that they even claimed to have descended from the gods themselves. In Pharaoh’s mind, if the Israelites were mere slaves under his control, then why should he fear their God? With an attitude of disbelief and disdain, Pharaoh listened to Moses and Aaron explain that the Lord God of Israel had said, “Let My people go, that they may hold a feast to Me in the wilderness.” He defiantly shot back, “Who is the Lord”? (Exod. 5:1, 2). Moses expected this question, even from his own people. It was no surprise that Pharaoh, too, questioned the identity of this unfamiliar God.

#### Journal

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse from Exodus 5, 6. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How do you think Moses felt while on his way to confront the most powerful man in the world?`

`What seemingly impossible task is God calling you to do?`