---
title:  Things Get Worse
date:  21/07/2025
---

#### inTerpret

The request for a three-day journey into the wilderness to offer sacrifices to God was reasonable, yet Pharaoh showed his hard character in response to even this simple proposal. He had no interest in allowing the Hebrew slaves to worship their God or give them a break from their work. Pharaoh angrily exclaimed, “You are idle! Idle!” (Exod. 5:17). Things then went from bad to worse for the Israelites. Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters to stop providing straw for the slaves but to still require the same production level as before. Their work became harder and more demanding. Their taskmasters became crueler than ever. When God showed up promising freedom, it seems their lives got worse.

The Israelite officers went to Moses and Aaron and expressed their dismay: “Let the Lord look on you and judge” (v. 21). Pharaoh’s unfortunate and cruel response convinced the Jewish leaders that God was not working through Moses. They blamed Moses for making their situation worse. They feared that Pharaoh would kill them because his anger had been stirred up. At this point, the Israelites did not respect Moses and were not planning to follow his directions (6:12).

God’s people often come to wrong conclusions when facing trials. When we can’t control the events in our lives, especially the bad ones, we turn to a greater Power to help us. If things get worse, our conclusion is often that our God is weak and unable to help. However, God’s people are not supposed to measure how present God is in our lives based on how well life is going for us. In fact, from this story, it seems the opposite is true. If things are going poorly for you, it may be a sign that God is near and is working for your salvation. The devil is a busy enemy always seeking to annoy and discourage God’s people. Things often get worse before they get better.

From the confines of our peaceful lives, it’s easy to look back on the Israelites’ struggles and consider them weak in their faith. They had many important lessons of trust and patience to learn. In our own lives, we must expect resistance and setbacks when we follow God. The most difficult part of a pregnancy is right before delivery. The mother can feel deliverance coming when the pain increases. Take heart, for suffering may well be a sign of God’s presence rather than an indicator of His absence.

#### Journal

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How do you feel when you do what God commands and things get worse in your life?`

`How do you fight the temptation to measure God’s presence in your life by how well things are going?`