---
title:  Why Have You Forsaken Me?
date:  23/07/2025
---

#### inVite

In Exodus 5:22, 23, Moses cried out, “Lord, why have You brought trouble on this people? Why is it You have sent me? For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in Your name, he has done evil to this people; neither have You delivered Your people at all.” Discouraged by the adversity and apparent failure of his mission, he questioned whether God was even present.

We find parallel experiences in Jesus’ life. Jesus, our High Priest who can sympathize with our weaknesses, “was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin” (Heb. 4:15). In Jesus’ life, at pivotal moments when it would seem God the Father should have been the closest, He seemed very far away.

Jesus’ time in the wilderness is one example. Matthew’s Gospel describes Jesus’ baptism by John at the beginning of His ministry. His Father spoke from heaven, and the Holy Spirit descended on Him in the form of a dove. We might this call a mountain-top experience. Then, that same Spirit led Him straight into the wilderness, where He was exposed to terrible temptations by the devil. He went forty days without food, and then, when His body could be no weaker, the devil showed up. Satan himself came to harass Jesus. Imagine if Jesus were to base His relationship with and trust in His Father on whatever His current experience was!

Later, when Jesus’ mission took Him to Jerusalem and a Roman cross, we again find Him in a situation where it would have been very easy to become discouraged and succumb to thoughts of doubt regarding God’s love for Him. In Gethsemane, He cried out to His disciples, “My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death” (Matt. 26:38). Instead of encouraging and supporting Him, His best friends abandoned Him.

On the cross, Jesus was brought to the ultimate test when it appeared that all He had attempted to do had failed. One of His most respected disciples had betrayed Him, one of His closest disciples had denied Him, and the rest had deserted Him. On the cross, everyone looked at Him as a failed messiah, “smitten by God” (Isa. 53:4). In the end, Jesus cried out, “My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?” (Matt. 27:46). Very little is worse than feeling forsaken. It’s one thing to be punished, it’s another thing to be abandoned. Everything seemed to be telling Jesus that He was on His own. Nobody _was_ there for Him. Yet His Father was there, hidden in the darkness.

These things that Jesus experienced assure us that when we face difficult life circumstances, we can trust that there’s more around us than we can see. We can trust that God is still present, even in our darkest moments (Ps. 18:11). We can know that more are for us than against us (2 Kings 6:16). We don’t have to judge our relationship with our God based on what we are currently experiencing in life.

#### Journal

`Meditate on Exodus 5 and 6 again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What do you think Jesus was experiencing when He cried out to His Father, “Why have You forsaken Me?”`

`Prayer Response:`