---
title:  I Carried You The Same As An Eagle 
date:  09/05/2021
---

While the Israelites are slaves in Egypt, they learn all about the Egyptian gods and religion. No doubt this experience causes the Israelites to forget about God, His plan, and His love for them.

How can the Lord win His people back to Himself?

First, the Lord will show His people how much He loves them. He will make them free from slavery. The Lord also will offer them a wonderful agreement at Sinai.

**What two word pictures show us how God brought His people from Egypt to Sinai?**

`Exodus 19:4; Deuteronomy 32:10–12`

`Deuteronomy 1:29–31; Hosea 11:1`

These two word pictures show us an eagle and a parent carrying his child. Together, these word pictures show that God knows we are helpless. Read Psalm 103:13, 14. These word pictures also show us that God cares about our needs and our happiness. God is tender. He supports and protects us. He loves to encourage us. Most of all, He wants us to become everything we are meant to be in Him.

“Eagles care deeply for their babies. Eagles also live high on the tops of mountains. The father-eagle teaches his babies to fly by carrying his young on his back to the mountaintops above the plain of Sinai. Then the eagle drops the baby eagle and lets it fall. If the baby is too young to fly, then the father-eagle will fly under the baby. The father-eagle will catch the baby on his back. Then he will fly up again with the baby to the nest on the rocks above. And that, says God, is ‘how I brought you out of Egypt to be mine.’ ”—George A. F. Knight, Theology of Narration (Grand Rapids, MI: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1976), page 128, adapted.

`Compare the love that God has for us with our love for each other. How should the love that the Lord has for us help us to love other people more deeply?`

`Think of some word pictures from your own experience that show that God cares for us. Share your ideas with the class.`