---
title:  The Plan Of God To Save Humans 
date:  10/05/2021
---

`Read Exodus 6:6, 7. What important rule do we see in these verses? Do you see how often the word “I” is written in these verses too? What does this show us about how much God does for us in the agreement?`

Moses writes about two important stories that show how God saves His people: (1) Moses writes about how God saves Noah and his family from the Flood. (2) Moses also writes about how God makes Israel free from slavery in Egypt. Both stories show us more fully the plan of God to save humans from sin. But the second story helps us understand the most about this saving plan. Let us look at it more closely.

God says to Israel, “ ‘I will save you’ ” (Exodus 6:6, ERV). What God really says is “I will be the family member who saves you.”  In Hebrew this word for “family member” is “go’el.”

“The word written as “saves” in Exodus 6:6 shows us the idea of a family member who buys back another member of his family from slavery. The person is in slavery because he or she owes money and cannot pay it. Or the person is about to go into slavery because of money he or she owes. The people of Israel have no family member who can buy them back from slavery and free them from owing money. But God will be their family member. He will buy His people back from slavery.”—Bernard L. Ramm, His Way Out (Glendale, CA: Regal Books Division, G/L Publications, 1974), page 50, adapted.

`How do you understand the idea of God “buying back” His people from slavery? What price must God pay? What does the cost tell us about how much we are worth in the eyes of God? (For the answer, read Mark 10:45; 1 Timothy 2:6; Revelation 5:9).`

In Exodus 3:8, NIrV, God says that He has “ ‘come down’ ” to save Israel from Egypt. This verb “come down” shows us what God does for humans. God is in heaven. We are on the earth. So, God must “come down” to earth so that He can save us. In the same way, Jesus comes down, lives, suffers, dies on the cross, and then wakes up from the dead. He does all this for us. “The Word [Jesus] became a man and lived among us” (John 1:14, ERV). This verse is another way of saying that God “came down” to save us.