---
title:  The Sinai Agreement 
date:  11/05/2021
---

The book of Exodus tells us about three important things: (1) the freedom of Israel from slavery in Egypt, (2) the special agreement of God, and (3) the building of a place of worship where God can live among His people. In Exodus 19–24, Moses writes about the special agreement that God makes with His people. Let us look at a short outline of chapters 19–24. This outline will show us the different parts of the special agreement. We also will see how the different parts of the agreement connect together.

Maybe you do not have time to look up all the verses in the list below. Then be sure to read the list to see how the different parts of the agreement connect together:

1. Israel arrives at Sinai and camps there after God makes them free from slavery in Egypt (Exodus 19:1, 2).
2. God offers to make a special agreement with Israel (Exodus 19:3–6).
3. Israel agrees to enter into the agreement with God (Exodus 19:7, 8).
4. Israel does special things to get ready to accept the agreement (Exodus 19:9–25).
5. God gives Moses the Ten Commandments (Exodus 20:1–17).
6. Moses stands between God and Israel. Moses gives the agreement of God to the people (Exodus 20:18–21).
7. God explains important rules of the agreement (Exodus 20:22–23:22).
8. The agreement is finally accepted and made legal (Exodus 24:1–18).

The Sinai agreement is an important part of the plan of God to save humans from sin. This agreement is the 4th agreement that God makes with humans. (Before this, God makes agreements with Adam, Noah, and Abraham.) In the Sinai agreement, God shows Himself more fully to humans than ever before. How does God do this? God uses the sanctuary. The sanctuary is the place of worship that God asks Moses to build. The sanctuary shows Israel how God will save sinners. The different parts of the sanctuary show us the work that the coming Savior will do. God wants His people to share this plan with everyone on the earth. That is what the Sinai agreement with God is all about: sharing with other people the plan of God to save humans from sin. God showed Adam and Eve this same plan in Eden.