---
title:  God And Israel 
date:  12/05/2021
---

**‘ “Now obey me completely. Keep my covenant [agreement]. If you do, then out of all the nations [countries] you will be my special treasure. The whole earth in mine. But you will be a kingdom of priests [religious leaders] to serve me. You will be my holy nation.” That is what you must tell the Israelites’ ” (Exodus 19:5, 6, NIrV).**

In these verses, the Lord explains His agreement with the children of Israel. Sure, God chooses Israel to be His people. But the Israelites must accept that choice too. They must work together with God. God cannot make them free from slavery in Egypt without their help. So, the Israelites must do everything that God asks. They must put blood on the sides of the doors of their houses. If the Israelites do not do this, God cannot save them. It is that simple.

Do you see that the Lord does not say to the Israelites, “Too bad for you if you do not want to be my special treasure or my kingdom of religious leaders. You are going to be what I want you to be no matter what you want!” That is not what the Bible says. God does not work that way.

`Read Exodus 19:5, 6 again. The Lord commands His people to obey Him. Does this command to obey the Lord show that we are saved by our good behavior and not saved by the mercy of God? How do these verses help you to understand the answer: Romans 3:19–24; Romans 6:1, 2; Romans 7:7; Revelation 14:12?`

“We do not earn everlasting life by our obedience. God saves us. His saving us is a gift He freely gives us. We get this gift by faith. Our faith makes us obedient.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, page 61, adapted.

Think about everything that the Lord wants to do for Israel after He makes them free from slavery in Egypt. The Lord wants to make Israel His special treasure. He also wants to make them a kingdom of religious leaders. The Lord wants to honor them high above every country on the earth too. Why? So, that Israel can preach the Good News about freedom from sin to everyone on earth. The only thing that Israel needs to do to make this happen is to obey God.