---
title:  Promises, Promises . . . 
date:  13/05/2021
---

At first, everything looks good. The Lord makes His people free from slavery in Egypt. Then the Lord offers His people the agreement promises. The people accept the offer from the Lord. Israel will do everything that the Lord asks them to do. It is a deal “made in heaven,” as we say, right?

**Read the verses below. What do they show us about the answer of Israel to the agreement?**

`Romans 9:31, 32`

`Romans 10:3`

`Hebrews 4:1, 2`

Whatever God asks us to do, our connection with Him must start with faith. Then our good behavior will follow. Good behavior cannot make us holy in the eyes of God. This was true in the time of Israel; it is true in our time too.

`The Bible tells us again and again that our good behavior is very important. So, why do our good works not make us good in the eyes of God? For the answer, read Isaiah 53:6; Isaiah 64:6; and Romans 3:23.`

Sadly, the Hebrew people in Bible times believe that their obedience saves them. They do not understand that their being saved will cause them to be obedient. So, the Israelites try to become holy by obeying the law. They do not know that only faith in the holy life of God can save them. Our being saved by faith is what the Sinai agreement is all about. The Sinai agreement shows the mercy and loving favor of God. This loving favor is a gift. God gives this gift freely to everyone who believes in Him. This gift of mercy changes the heart. This change of heart causes the sinner to become obedient. The Israelites have no trouble obeying. Their problem was understanding that their obedience and good behavior do not save them.

`Read Romans 10:3. What is Paul saying in this verse? What happens to people who try to become right with God in their own way? Why does that behavior lead to sin?`