---
title:  Further Thought
date:  14/05/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Exodus,” pages 281–290; “From the Red Sea to Sinai,” pages 291–302; “The Law Given to Israel,” pages 303–334; in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“We become slaves when we try to save ourselves by our own good behavior and obedience. This is a legal religion. We cannot obey the law in our own strength. So, we must accept the agreement God made with Abraham. That is our only hope. The agreement with Abraham shows that we are saved by our faith in the mercy of God by Jesus Christ. God preached this Good News to Abraham. This news gave Abraham hope. This is the same Good News that the Bible preaches to us today. This Good News gives us hope, too. Abraham looked to Jesus to save Him. Our faith comes from Jesus. He also is the One who makes our faith complete.”—Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 6, page 1077, adapted.

“When the Israelites are slaves in Egypt, many of them lose their knowledge about the law of God. The Israelites mix the important rules from the law of God with the way of life around them. God brings the Israelites to Sinai. There, with His own voice, God announces His law.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 314, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In what ways does the Sinai agreement help keep Israel free? How does it help keep their bodies and their spirits free? (For the answer, read Leviticus 26:3–13; compare Deuteronomy 28:1–15.)`

`Read again Exodus 19:5, 6. The Lord announces: “ ‘The whole earth is mine’ ” (NIrV). Why does the Lord say this to the Israelites? How does the Sabbath commandment help us to understand this Bible truth more fully?`

`We understand that God forgives our sins only by our faith in His loving favor. How does the loving favor of God help us to live a life of faith and obedience?`

**Summary**: The agreement that God makes with Israel at Sinai shows His loving favor and mercy. God invites Israel to accept this agreement. It will keep Israel free in every way. Israel accepts the offer. But they do not have the faith that comes from love. As their later history shows, they fail to understand what the Sinai agreement is really about. They turn away from the saving plan of God. They believe they can be saved by their own works. Let us learn from the mistakes of Israel. Only our faith in the loving favor of God can save us.