---
title: Using What We Have
date: 24/08/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 25:14–30**

**Using What We Have**

Nick Vujicic was born in 1982 in Melbourne, Australia, with a rare disorder called tetra-amelia syndrome, characterized by the absence of all four limbs. In other words, Nick was born without arms or legs. He had two small feet, one of which had two toes. Nick became one of the first physically disabled students to integrate into a mainstream school. However, his lack of limbs made him a target for bullying, and he fell into a severe depression. At age ten, he contemplated suicide and even tried to drown himself in the bathtub, but his love for his parents prevented him from following through.

A key turning point came when his mother showed him a newspaper article about a man dealing with a severe disability. Nick realized he wasn’t unique in his struggles and began to accept his lack of limbs. He realized his accomplishments could inspire others, and he became grateful for his life. Gradually, he learned how to live a full life without limbs, adapting many of the daily skills limbed people accomplish without thinking.

When Nick was seventeen, he began giving talks at his prayer group and later founded a non-profit organization, Life Without Limbs. This ministry reaches out to the brokenhearted and shares the good news of Jesus Christ around the world. Nick, as a preacher and motivational speaker, has inspired millions of people. He famously said, “If God can use a man without arms and legs to be His hands and feet, then He will certainly use any willing heart!” (Anugrah Kumar, “Nick Vujicic on Why God Made Him Limbless,” The Christian Post, September 3, 2012, www.christianpost.com/news/nick-vujicic-on-why-god-made-him-limbless.html). In this lesson, we will look at how God desires to use our talents, though they may seem few and insignificant, to bless and inspire people around us.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 25:14–30 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 29. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the text.

` `