---
title: Entrusted with Talents
date: 25/08/2024
---

#### inGest

During the last few days of His earthly ministry, Jesus told His disciples about various signs that will indicate when His return and the end of the world are imminent. He explained the challenges that end-time believers will face and what they must do to prepare. Through a series of parables, Jesus elaborated on various spiritual hazards that the church will encounter as the Second Coming approaches. The parable of the talents is a story about unexpected delay. Two other parables, which also feature delay as a central part of the storyline, precede this narrative. Jesus stressed that nobody can pinpoint the time of His return: “Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming” (Matt. 25:13). Some people have lost their faith because they expected Jesus to return before now, but Jesus warned of a significant delay that will test people’s faith. Jesus wanted His disciples to be ready for His return at any time, no matter how long or short the wait.

In the parable of the talents, a man went on a long journey to a faraway country but promised his servants that he would return. When Jesus ascended to heaven, He went on a long journey to a faraway country, but He too promised His disciples that He would indeed return. Before he left, the man in the parable entrusted each of his servants with a different number of talents. The talents in this story had monetary value. One talent was roughly equivalent to six thousand denarii. One denarius was equivalent to one day’s pay for an unskilled laborer. To put this into perspective, one talent represented about twenty years of labor. One talent was an extraordinary amount, let alone five talents! The servants in the parable were entrusted with large amounts of resources to manage wisely. The servants with greater ability were entrusted with more money. In the spiritual application of the parable, we see how Jesus made us stewards of His resources and His work while He journeys to a far country—a heavenly one. He has entrusted us all with talents, which represent the abilities and resources we have and can improve to bless people around us.

When studying parables, it’s important to note that one character might represent a particular aspect of Christ’s work, but His complete role is never fully represented by a simple story. Though the man who gave the talents and traveled to a faraway land represents Jesus, there are significant differences. As the man in the parable entrusted his servants with talents and required an increase, so Christ expects us to use the talents He has given us. However, while the man in the parable had no contact with his servants while he was away, Jesus has not left us on our own (Matt. 28:20). Not only do the talents come from Jesus but He also provides us with the ability to increase these talents! Jesus wants to work in us to develop the very talents He has created us with.

`Memorize your favorite verse in the primary passage. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why is it important to acknowledge that all our talents come from God?`

`How do we increase or improve our talents?`