---
title: Buried Talents
date: 26/08/2024
---

#### inTerpret

The servant in the parable who received one talent was not required to produce five. He only had to increase what he was entrusted with. God does not require more from us than we are able to develop and improve. Though God’s love for each of us is equal, His gifts vary from person to person. Without this understanding, we will either live in continual frustration or in self-satisfaction. Frustration arises when we live with the constant expectation that we should be doing something we were never gifted or equipped to do. We think we should produce five talents when we have only received one. On the other hand, there’s a danger of falling into self-satisfaction. We compare ourselves to others who are doing less, and we only put forth the minimum effort while God has given us resources and talents to do far more. Many bury their talents because they are satisfied with too little.

Both extremes are easy to fall into, but we can optimize our service by keeping our eyes on Jesus. He provides the strength we need to work in the sphere where He has placed us, with the opportunities He has provided. In the end, no one can boast, as all comes from Him.

The parable talks about the settling of accounts. The man in the parable returned to examine what his servants had done with the entrusted talents. Salvation comes by faith and not works, but our relationship with Jesus results in a desire to serve and to maximize our talents to reach others. Our works are the fruit of our faith in Christ. The choices of the man who received one talent reveal how he viewed his master’s character: “Lord, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you have not sown, and gathering where you have not scattered seed. And I was afraid, and went and hid your talent in the ground. Look, there you have what is yours” (Matt. 25:24, 25). The servant with the one talent was afraid of his master’s harshness. His fear of failing his master crippled his effectiveness. When we fear we are not good enough for God to use us, we are doubting His power. We’re saying He can’t do in us what He has promised to do. Our picture of God’s character is directly connected to our potential for service. We must remember that we don’t serve a harsh master but rather a loving Savior who wants us to flourish and be a blessing to others.

Often, when we feel we have little to give, we retreat and bury what little we have. We think our contribution is pointless, but the truth of the parable is irrefutable: the smallest talent matters! You, with the one talent, matter! When the most insignificant part of the body suffers, the whole body suffers (1 Cor. 12:20–26). Just as each part of the body is essential, so each member of the body of Christ is indispensable. The entire church becomes defective when one talent is buried.

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How does your picture of God impact your service for Him?`