---
title: Enter the Joy of Your Lord
date: 28/08/2024
---

#### inVite

The master in the parable richly rewarded his faithful servants: “Well done, good and faithful servant; you were faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord” (Matt. 25:21). God has an immeasurable reward waiting for all who live faithfully for Him, but we don’t need to wait until Jesus returns to enter His joy. Today, the joy of the Lord is already accessible. True joy comes when we invest our talents for God. Those who join Jesus in the mission of seeking and saving the lost share in His joy of seeing souls saved. Ellen White writes, “By living to minister for others, man is brought into connection with Christ. The law of service becomes the connecting link which binds us to God and to our fellow men.... Not more surely is the place prepared for us in the heavenly mansions than is the special place designated on earth where we are to work for God” (Ellen G. White, Christ’s Object Lessons [1900], 326, 327). Just as joy awaits us in the heavenly mansions prepared for us, so we experience joy today by knowing God is using us to uplift others. The rewards of service are both future and present.

As David Livingstone (1813–1873), the legendary pioneer missionary to Africa, reflected upon his own life of service, his greatest sacrifices seemed small compared to the high privilege of serving.

People talk of the sacrifice I have made in spending so much of my life in Africa.... Away with such a word, such a view, and such a thought! It is emphatically no sacrifice. Say rather it is a privilege. Anxiety, sickness, suffering or danger now and then, with a foregoing of the common conveniences and charities of this life, may make us pause and cause the spirit to waver and sink; but let this only be for a moment. All these are nothing when compared with the glory which shall hereafter be revealed in and for us. I never made a sacrifice. (David Livingstone, Livingstone’s Private Journal: 1851–53 [1960)], 108, 132)

As we see what Jesus has done for us, we realize that increasing our talents and using them for God is not really a sacrifice after all. Yes, it involves commitment, but it’s also a joy and a privilege! Jesus promised His disciples He would be with them as they went into the world spreading the gospel. He gave them power through the Holy Spirit and equipped them for service. God’s blessing on their work brought great joy to the church. Even amid persecution and opposition, no tribulation could take away their joy. After they were expelled from one region, the Bible records their unrepressed joy: “And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit” (Acts 13:52). As we serve the Lord, may we each discover a deep joy and trust in God that will sustain us through any hardship.

`Why is our connection with Christ stronger when we serve others?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What is He saying to you personally through the text of the week?`

`Prayer Response:`