---
title: King of the Jews
date: 14/12/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 19**

**King of the Jews**

In the last lesson, we observed that Pilate’s actions can be divided into seven scenes. This week, we’ll explore the final four scenes (John 19:1–3; 19:4–7; 19:8–11; 19:12–16) and their results. The culmination of Pilate’s choices led to Jesus’ condemnation and death.

The fourth scene is concise. Pilate was back within the Praetorium with Jesus. The Jews met Pilate’s suggestion to free Jesus with derision and the demand to release Barabbas (18:38–40). Pilate instead decided to flog the prisoner, despite no official condemnation (19:1). The soldiers mocked Jesus and forced Him to wear a thorny crown and what was likely an officer’s cloak (v. 2, 3). The Gospel draws our attention more closely to the description of Christ as King of the Jews. For the Romans, to mock Jesus in this way was also to ridicule the Hebrew faith, but in doing so, they were inadvertently acknowledging Jesus as the king He is.

The fifth scene then began, and from here on, everyone was involved. Pilate brought Jesus out still dressed as a king (19:5). He claimed that his purpose was to show that he found no guilt in Jesus (19:4; 18:38). Pilate’s responsibility as a governor and judge was to simply free Jesus. Perhaps Pilate’s motive was to elicit sympathy for Christ, who stood bruised and bleeding. If so, the idea failed spectacularly. For the first time, the word “crucify” appears in the storyline. It was not the crowd who first demanded it. The chief priests and their servants cried out, “Crucify Him!” (v. 6). Possibly fearing Jesus’ influence on the crowd, they took the lead. The single word, crucify, became an easy one-word chant for the multitude to repeat.

#### inScribe

Take some time to enter a relaxed and prayerful state of mind. Slowly read John 19. If you’re short on time, focus on verses 1–6. Imagine being there, hearing and seeing the unfolding events. How would you react? Create a drawing or a mind map of what you discovered. Share it with your study group.

` `