---
title: The Verdict
date: 15/12/2024
---

#### inGest

At last, the religious leaders expressed to Pilate their true motive: they wanted Jesus crucified because of His claim to divinity (John 19:7). Pilate feared divine retribution if Jesus was indeed the Son of God. In the common thinking of the day, the gods could take human form (see Acts 14:11). Pilate’s reaction reflected his dark terror of meeting a divine being who could take vengeance on anyone who mistreated him.

Motivated by growing dread, the governor withdrew into the palace, opening the sixth scene (John 19:8, 9). Pilate was anxious to know Christ’s origin—is it of earth or heaven? Jesus did not respond. Pilate then flaunted the authority he had to free Christ (v. 10). Jesus made it clear that He, not Pilate, has the power over life and death (v. 11; 10:18). Jesus’ final words stirred Pilate deeply, and he redoubled his efforts to release the Prisoner (19:12). Thus opens the seventh and final scene in this part of the drama.

Pilate returned to the crowd, which attacked his weak point: unfaithfulness to the emperor (v. 12). The Jews insisted that Jesus was antagonistic toward Caesar, and Pilate’s anxiety escalated. He feared jeopardizing his political career by protecting this Man who claimed to be a king.

Pilate brought Jesus before the crowd and sat on the judgment seat (v. 13). We can read the Greek as indicating that either Pilate sat on the seat or he sat Jesus down on the seat. John was most likely indicating that Pilate sat down, but those reading the entire narrative can see that ultimately, Jesus is the true King who holds the right to exercise the power of judgment. Finally, the priests made their choice clear: they would have no king but Caesar (v. 15).

Pilate sat down in the judgment seat to issue the verdict at about the sixth hour, which was noon (v. 14). The people should have been ceasing from work, removing leaven from their homes, and preparing for the paschal meal. Instead, they were calling for a crucifixion. As Passover was about to begin, the religious leaders, who should have been celebrating God’s deliverance and recognizing His kingly authority, were instead choosing the Roman emperor as their king.

The priests’ final declaration, “We have no king but Caesar!” (v. 15) is preposterous. They claimed God as their king but rejected Him to His face. For the Jewish reader of the day, this contradiction was especially obvious. The Eighteen Benedictions, which were recited three times a day, underscore this. The eleventh says, “May you be our King, you alone” (Whitacre, R. A., John, vol. 4, [1999], 456). This contradiction is further emphasized by a hymn sung at the conclusion of the Passover meal. A portion reads, “From everlasting to everlasting thou art God; Besides thee we have no king, redeemer or savior.... We have no king but thee” (Meeks, Wayne A., The Prophet-King: Moses Traditions and the Johannine Christology, [1967]). When Pilate declared, “Behold your King!” (John 19:14), he unwittingly gave the Jews their last chance to accept Jesus as such. Casting aside centuries of waiting for this very moment, the Jewish leaders made their rejection of Jesus official, emphatically declaring, “We have no king but Caesar!” (v. 15).

#### Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 19. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Pilate had very mixed feelings about Jesus’ trial. What tipped him in the wrong direction? How can we avoid this same pitfall in our own battles?`

`How did the religious leaders compromise their own values and beliefs in their frenzy to condemn Jesus? In what ways are we tempted to do something similar today?`