---
title: Crucifixion
date: 16/12/2024
---

#### inTerpret

At the beginning of Christ’s ministry, John the Baptist introduced Jesus as “the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world” (John 1:29). Every spring, worshipers traveling to Jerusalem for the Passover Feast were reminded of the saving blood of the lamb (Exod. 12:12, 13, 21–28). As the worshipers gathered for another Passover ceremony, the true Passover Lamb was being led to His death. Christ’s death coincided with the Passover sacrifice. Jesus is the I AM, the King, and the Passover Lamb. We can only begin to understand the significance of Christ’s death on our behalf if we see the whole of who He is.

Having gained Pilate’s approval, the religious leaders were in a hurry to see Jesus led away to His death. John specified that Jesus carried His cross (John 19:17). This is specific to his Gospel, as the others include the role of Simon of Cyrene (Mark 15:21). By highlighting the time that Jesus carried His own cross, John reminded us that Jesus was in complete control of events (John 10:17, 18). He Himself brought salvation to the world (1:29).

John glossed over the agony and details of the crucifixion. He simply recorded that Jesus was crucified (19:18). Crucifixion was a despised and cruel execution. The idea that the King, the Messiah, could be crucified was absurd and highly offensive (1 Cor. 1:18–25). For the unbelieving Romans, Greeks, and Jews, that Jesus was crucified provided clear evidence that He was a fraud. However, Jesus ultimately infused this horrific death with victory and triumph.

Crowds gathered to watch. Pilate wrote out the charges against Jesus in three languages so everyone would know that this Man claimed Israel’s throne (John 19:19, 20). This ensured widespread knowledge of Jesus and His death (vv. 16–20; see also 3:14; 12:32). It was written in Hebrew so the Jews would know, in Latin so the Romans would know, and in Greek, the lingua franca of the world, so all other nations would know. In doing this, Pilate unwittingly testified that Jesus is the true King and enthroned Christ as King of a very different kind of kingdom.

Following custom, the soldiers divided Jesus’ garments, unknowingly fulfilling prophecy (19:23, 24). This image is reminiscent of how Jesus laid aside His garments at the foot washing (13:1–4), which points to Jesus laying aside His glory for the work of redemption.

Jesus was not entirely forsaken. A group of women stood near the cross with the beloved disciple (19:25, 26). Jesus’ mother, who was with Him at the beginning of His ministry (2:1–11), is here shown standing by Him at the end. Seeing her among the crowd, Christ entrusted her to the care of the beloved disciple (19:26, 27). Taking up the charge given to him (v. 27), John fulfilled Jesus’ commandment to love one another and demonstrated the unity for which Jesus prayed (17:11, 22). The family of faith that formed by the cross gives ongoing witness to Jesus’ life and death (1:12).

#### Journal:

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks seem to point to overall?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why was the idea of the Messiah dying on a cross so completely absurd to the Greeks and Jews? (1 Cor. 1:18–25.) Has this changed today?`