---
title: Death and Burial
date: 18/12/2024
---

#### inVite

After caring for His mother, Jesus knew everything had been accomplished (John 19:28). He had fully finished the work God gave Him to do. Naturally, John skipped many details, choosing instead to focus on Jesus’ death as the final great achievement of His life. Jesus continued to demonstrate His control over events as they unfolded. In His final two statements on the cross, He took the initiative.

By stating “I thirst!” (v. 28), Jesus took the lead in asking for a drink. This contrasts with the Synoptic Gospels’ description of the bystanders or soldiers offering the wine to Jesus (Matt. 27:48; Mark 15:36; Luke 23:36). This scene fulfills the prophecy in Psalm 69:21. Of the Gospel writers, John alone indicated that the sponge was placed on hyssop to reach Jesus (John 19:29). The height of a crucified man was not very high; hyssop or some maize-like grass would have been sufficient to reach His lips. Moreover, the mention of hyssop directly connects these events to the Passover, reminding us that Jesus is the true paschal offering (Exod. 12:22).

Having received the sour wine and fully accomplished His work, Jesus triumphantly cried out, “It is finished!” (John 19:30). The cross immediately became a place of victory and triumph, and the results reverberate through time. Then Jesus bowed His head (v. 30). This phrase was used in the context of going to bed (Matt. 8:20). Indeed, no one took Jesus’ life; He laid it down of His own will (John 10:18).

At this point, the Jews requested that the bodies be removed from the crosses because that Sabbath was special—it coincided with the feast Sabbath (see Deut. 21:23). Recognizing that Jesus was dead, the soldiers chose not to break His legs as they did with those crucified beside Him (John 19:31–33). Death on the cross occurred by asphyxiation and often took days. Breaking the victims’ legs prevented them from lifting their bodies to breathe, thus hastening the process. As confirmation of His death, a soldier pierced Jesus’ side, and water and blood flowed out (v. 34). John didn’t explain why the water and blood were significant other than to say he personally saw it and it provided proof of Jesus’ death. (Some scholars think the separation of fluid [water] from blood indicates that Jesus died of a ruptured heart.)

Two timid disciples appeared to care for Jesus’ body. The reader has no prior information about Joseph of Arimathea—John’s introduction is abrupt. He was a disciple, but a secret one (v. 38). At the moment the Jews’ power over Jesus peaked, Joseph showed his support of Christ. Nicodemus has appeared several times in the storyline, but always hesitatingly. Here we see him too show his support in a tangible way (v. 39).

The quantity of spices used for Jesus’ body reflected a royal burial (2 Chron. 16:14). In His first meeting with Nicodemus, Jesus spoke of His kingdom. Here we see Nicodemus and Joseph provide lavish arrangements for Jesus’ burial (John 19:38–42). This too reflects His role as King. Like Mary, these two disciples demonstrated their deep love for Christ as they prepared Him for entombment (12:1–8).

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 19 again and look for where Jesus is.

`With all that was on Jesus’ mind, what can we learn from His tender care for His mother?`

`How much was Jesus in control of His death, and how much was His death controlled by others?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`