---
title:  inTro
date:   13/09/2026
---

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Luke 24

### Doubt and Despair

When Jesus was buried in the grave, all the disciples’ hopes and dreams were buried with Him, revealing how fragile hope can feel in moments of waiting. They could not see past the darkness of the tomb. They forgot His promises and were overwhelmed with doubt and confusion. Only weeks before, the disciples had seen Jesus resurrect a man who had been dead and sealed in a grave for four days. However, the disciples despaired as if Jesus had never demonstrated His power over the grave and hadn’t promised His own resurrection.

The parallels between Lazarus’ burial and resurrection and Jesus’ are striking. The experience with Lazarus should’ve given the disciples faith and courage to sustain them while Christ was in the grave.

Like Jesus’ death, the death of Lazarus was for the glory of God (John 11:4). Like Jesus, Lazarus was much loved (John 11:5). With Lazarus, there was also a time of unexplained delay (John 11:6). Lazarus’ sisters, Mary and Martha, were some of Jesus’ close friends. When He finally arrived four days after Lazarus died, they were deeply hurt and confused. Jesus assured them: “I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in Me, though he may die, he shall live” (John 11:25). They agreed that this is true. Then Jesus commanded them to “take away the stone” (John 11:39). Martha expressed concern, but Jesus reminded her, “Did I not say to you that if you would believe you would see the glory of God?” (John 11:40). Jesus prayed and then called Lazarus to come forth from the tomb.

Indeed, Jesus received great glory from this situation. However, the dark period before Lazarus’ resurrection was very real. For days, Lazarus’ sisters must have wrestled with doubt—questioning Jesus’ love, wondering whether He really was who they thought He was. His delay seemed so out of character. However, in the long run, this tougher road brought more glory to God than if Jesus had simply healed their brother.

After Jesus’ death, the disciples experienced a similarly painful trial. Their “Brother,” in a very real sense, had also died unexpectedly (though He had warned them). They too had to endure the sorrow of seeing Him in a tomb for days, trying to make sense of it. “Is He really who we thought He was?” “Have we made a mistake in following Him?” “It wasn’t supposed to look like this.” Later, like Martha, they expressed hesitancy about the idea of the resurrection. However, the very One who had promised Martha that He is “the resurrection and the life” proved it on Sunday morning. He too came forth from the tomb, bringing far more glory to God than if He had never died. He proved once and for all that He has defeated Satan and death.

This parallel teaches us yet another valuable lesson: there are times in our lives when it’s hard to understand what God’s doing. Sometimes it feels like He’s allowing things close to our hearts to die with no concern for what we’re feeling. However, He’s deeply acquainted with our pain and our stories and He’s working for us, even when we can’t see it. “To all who are reaching out to feel the guiding hand of God, the moment of greatest discouragement is the time when divine help is nearest.”<sup>1</sup> Jesus Himself endured spiritual silence while on the cross. God the Father was right beside Him, but Jesus couldn’t feel it. Indeed, the silence of God does not mean the absence of God.

This week, we will finish Jesus’ earthly story and cover His resurrection, the empty tomb, the road to Emmaus, and His ascension.

### inScribe

Make an outline or mind map of Luke 24. Especially focus on verses 25–35, writing them out from the translation of your choice or rewriting them in your own words.

Review your scribed passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [Arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`What special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 528.