---
title:  inGest
date:   14/09/2026
---

### An Empty Tomb

Jesus’ followers did not sleep well over the weekend. The women rose early on Sunday morning while it was still dark, prepared their spices and perfumes, and hurried to the tomb to finish caring for Jesus’ body. However, before the mourners arrived, there was a great earthquake, and an angel from heaven was commissioned to roll the stone back and open the tomb. The Roman soldiers who had been stationed to guard the tomb fell back like dead men because of the overpowering brightness of the angel that appeared on the scene.

The women were shocked and dismayed to find the tomb unsealed and empty. Assuming the body had been stolen, their plans were shattered. Then, two brightly shining angels appeared to them and said, “Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen!” (Luke 24:5, 6). They reminded the women of Jesus’ words—how He had told them this would happen.

The angels’ declaration is the greatest news imaginable! The crucifixion without a resurrection is a death sentence, but the resurrection changes everything. If Jesus can burst through that tomb, anything is possible, and there truly is hope for us as sinful humans. Death no longer has the final word.

Christ’s resurrection gives us a hope that extends beyond the grave. As Paul said, “If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable” (1 Cor. 15:19). In other words, if there is no hope of the resurrection, our religion is pointless. Praise God, our hope in Christ extends beyond this life!

The angels instructed the women to go and tell the disciples this good news. You’d probably expect the disciples to warmly receive such a glorious message, but instead, “Their words seemed to them like idle tales, and they did not believe them” (Luke 24:11). Imagine the disappointment these sincere women felt. They communed with angels and received the best news imaginable only to be met with unbelief and rejection when they shared it with their fellow followers of Christ.

Jesus had already explained to the disciples that He had to be “delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again” (Luke 24:7). However, the disciples hadn’t wanted to hear that message, so when it was fulfilled, they didn’t want to hear it then either. This point teaches us something important: our preconceived ideas can blind us in our greatest time of need. The disciples desperately needed to hear that Jesus was alive, yet they struggled to accept it. May God give us truly open hearts to hear what He has to say—and to fully receive His words.

**Questions to consider:**

`How does the resurrection story impact you? What assurance does it give you?`

`Which of God’s promises have you struggled to believe because they seem “too good to be true”?`