---
title:  inTerpret
date:   15/09/2026
---

### The Greatest Bible Study Ever

After Jesus’ resurrection, He walked alongside two sorrowful disciples on the road to Emmaus. These men were discussing Jesus’ death and the empty tomb, trying to make sense of it. Jesus asked them what they were talking about, and they seemed surprised that He hadn’t heard about the recent events in Jerusalem. They expressed their hopes and confusion about what had happened over the last few days.

Jesus gently rebuked them for their lack of belief and understanding of what the prophets revealed about these very events. Then, “beginning at Moses and all the Prophets, He expounded to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning Himself” (Luke 24:27). All the Scriptures! Can you imagine what a Bible study that must have been? Scholars have identified anywhere from 300 to 574 Old Testament prophecies foretelling the Messiah. We don’t know how many Jesus spoke of to the two men that afternoon, but we can imagine He made connections that would blow our minds today.

The men invited Jesus to rest in their home, and He accepted. While sharing a meal together, they suddenly recognized who was speaking to them, and in that very moment, Jesus disappeared. They reflected on just how powerful that Bible study was and exclaimed, “Did not our heart burn within us while He talked with us on the road, and while He opened the Scriptures to us?” (Luke 24:32). Jesus moved their hearts, not with an impressive miracle but with a simple Bible study. In using the Bible to strengthen their faith, He employed the same tools available to us today.

If these two men had recognized Jesus at the beginning of the conversation, they might have been too excited to listen to a Bible study. Perhaps Jesus restrained their eyes (Luke 24:16) and delayed their excitement so that their faith could first be anchored in Scripture.

Jesus appeared next to a group of believers, among which were the eleven disciples, who had gathered in a closed room (Luke 24:33). They too needed to hear the Scriptures explained to calm their fears and restore their faith. The disciples were skeptical about whether Jesus was real and not just a spirit (Luke 24:37). He repeatedly tried to convince them, showing them His wounds and even eating food in their presence.

What ultimately convinced them is when Jesus opened the Scriptures and explained the prophecies concerning Himself, things they had never before understood (Luke 24:44, 45). He showed them that His suffering, death, and resurrection fulfilled the Old Testament Scriptures. Then He commissioned them to take this news to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. To do this, they would need to follow Christ’s perfect example in opening the Scriptures and explaining the meaning of the things written in them.

`What parts of this story are difficult to understand? Did you notice new details or perspectives this time?`

`How can we use Scripture the way Jesus did?`

`Memorize your favorite passage from Luke 24. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`