---
title:  inVite
date:   17/09/2026
---

### A Difficult Mission

Christ’s death may have felt like the end to the disciples, but it was really the beginning. The good news of salvation, made possible by Christ’s death and resurrection, must go to the whole world (Luke 24:47). Jesus will not complete this mission Himself; He returned to heaven and commissioned His disciples, entrusting them with this great responsibility.

It would’ve been natural for the disciples to flee Jerusalem and never return after the religious leaders had Christ unjustly killed. Their homes were in Galilee. They grew up in Galilee and spoke with a Galilean accent (Mark 14:70). They were well known as Christ’s disciples, meaning Jerusalem was not a safe place for them to be. Nevertheless, Christ told them their mission would not begin in Galilee, but in Jerusalem. The city where Christ was killed was the city where the proclamation of Christ’s resurrection had to begin. Christ did not call them to an easy work. Their call to repentance would stir up fierce opposition. They would not be rewarded with riches or popularity. They would sacrifice everything for the sake of this mission.

Christ often calls us to uncomfortable missions, sometimes far from home, where the risks are high and there are many unknowns. The disciples’ initial mission was a prototype of the missions Christ gives His people today. There are many Jerusalems today—cities that seem unpromising and hostile. Jesus calls us not to stay in our comfortable homes and follow the most convenient path but to go where He leads and make ourselves available for His work.

Jesus took His disciples about two miles outside Jerusalem to a location near the town of Bethany. As he spoke His last words of blessing to them, His feet began to lift off the ground, and He ascended into the sky until He vanished from their sight. Jesus was going to be reunited with His Father! How little the disciples had comprehended Christ’s relationship with His Father. As Ellen White noted, “The loneliness of Christ, separated from the heavenly courts, living the life of humanity, was never understood or appreciated by the disciples as it should have been.”<sup>1</sup>

Christ’s departure did not mean He was abandoning them to struggle alone. When the Son of Man ascended in victory, “the family of heaven and the family of earth”<sup>2</sup> became one. He gave full provision for their success, promising they would be “endued with power from on high” (Luke 24:49). He promised to send the Holy Spirit to enable them to accomplish their great mission.

**Questions to consider:**

`What difficult, surprising mission has Christ called you to?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 565.

<sup>2</sup> White, _The Desire of Ages_, 835.