---
title:  inQuire
date:   19/09/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**An empty tomb:**

1. How did the women react when they discovered an empty tomb on Sunday morning? Luke 24:1–5
2. What reminder did the angels give the women to help them make sense of the empty tomb? Luke 24:6–8
3. How did the disciples respond to the women bringing news of an empty tomb? Luke 24:9–12

`Personal reflection: How do you keep your faith in times of disappointment or when you don’t have all the answers?`

**Struggling with doubts:**

1. What kinds of questions were the two followers of Jesus struggling with on the road to Emmaus? Luke 24:13–24
2. How did Jesus answer their questions and explain the meaning of the recent events? Luke 24:25–27
3. How did that Bible study impact those men? Luke 24:32

`Personal reflection: What’s the most impactful Bible study you’ve experienced? How can we replicate Jesus’ model of Bible study today?`

**Rekindling faith:**

1. How prepared were the disciples to see their risen Lord? Luke 24:36–43
2. How did Jesus help His doubting disciples believe? Luke 24:44–46
3. What mission did Jesus give His disciples? What’s the significance of their mission beginning in Jerusalem? Luke 24:46–49

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- The disciples were very slow to believe the resurrection because of their many preconceived ideas.
- Jesus helped His doubting disciples believe, not by working another impressive miracle but by giving them a simple yet persuasive Bible study.
- Rather than calling us to something comfortable and easy, God often calls us to difficult missions, like telling the disciples to begin in Jerusalem, the most hostile, dangerous place for them at the time.