---
title:  'The Church: God’s Army'
date:   17/09/2023
---

`Read Ephesians 6:10–20. In these verses, what does Paul say about the types of war that the church fights? Is Paul talking about his own personal fight against evil? Or is Paul talking about the war against evil that the whole church fights?`

In Bible times, Greeks and Romans won wars because all the soldiers in their armies supported and helped each other. The soldiers worked together to win. Greek or Roman army leaders taught their soldiers not to behave the same as the wild men from the foreign armies they fought. These wild men didn’t follow orders and tried to do things their own way. Their behavior and actions caused their armies to lose against the Greeks and the Romans.

When we understand this idea, we can better understand what Paul is talking about in Ephesians 6:10–20. There are three reasons why we can say that Paul is talking about the church’s fight against evil and not his own fight or someone else’s personal fight: (1) Ephesians 6:10–20 is the final part of a letter that is all about the church. So, it would be strange for Paul to end his letter talking about a Christian warrior fighting against evil all by himself. (2) At the end of Ephesians 6:10–20, Paul asks the Ephesian Christians to join together in prayer for “all of God’s people” (Ephesians 6:18, ERV, also, read Ephesians 3:19, 20). (3) Most important, earlier in his letter, Paul talks about the war that the whole church fights against evil (Ephesians 3:10). This war isn’t fought only by one person.

So, Ephesians 6:10–20 doesn’t show us a picture of a warrior all by himself fighting alone against evil. Paul talks to the church the same as a general talks to his army. Paul orders the church to put on God’s battle suit and to go fight together as one army.

So far, Paul has used many word pictures to talk about the church. Paul compared the church to Jesus’ body (Ephesians 1:22, 23; Ephesians 4:1–16), a building/temple that belongs to God (Ephesians 2:19–22), and Jesus’ bride (Ephesians 5:21–33). What is the last word picture that Paul uses in Ephesians? Paul uses the word picture of the church as the army of God. We are nearing the evil day (Ephesians 6:13) when God’s people will fight the final war in the battle against evil. We are all soldiers in Jesus’ army. So, we need to be loyal to God and to each other.