---
title:  Belt and Chest Covering
date:   18/09/2023
---

`Paul shows us a picture of Christians getting ready for the fight against evil. What do they do to get ready? Read Ephesians 6:14 for the answer. Also, read 1 Peter 4:1; 1 Peter 5:8; Romans 8:37–39 to help answer the questions.`

Paul warns us about the final fight that is coming in the future (Ephesians 6:13). This fight will be the last battle between good and evil, just before Jesus comes back. Paul wants Christians to be ready for this fight (Ephesians 6:14–17). Paul tells us what to do to get ready. “So then, stand and hold on tight to the truth like [the same as] you put on a belt” (Ephesians 6:13, WE; compare Isaiah 11:5). In Bible times, clothes were long and loose-fitting. So, people needed to tie their clothes up around their waists before they started working or fighting (compare Luke 12:35, 37). Paul says Christians must do the same thing that a Roman soldier did. A Roman soldier put a military belt around his waist. The belt was made from leather. Leather straps hung from the belt. Before the soldier went to war, he tucked the ends of his clothes into the belt and strapped them tight. The soldier did this so he wouldn’t trip over his clothes when he fought.

As we see, Paul compares the truth to a belt. We must understand that we don’t own this “belt.” This belt belongs to God. The truth is a gift from God, just the same as His saving mercy is His gift to us (Ephesians 2:8). This gift of mercy is more than an idea. We must accept God’s gift and make it a part of our lives. So, we must “put on” God’s truth the same as clothes. We don’t own God’s truth. We belong to God’s truth, and it protects us.

Next, Paul tells Christians to put on Jesus’ holy life the same as a chest covering or battle suit (compare 1 Thessalonians 5:8). This chest covering is from God, the same as the belt. In Paul’s day, many Roman battle suits were made from small iron rings that were connected together. The Roman covering protected the heart and other parts of the chest and belly from the enemy. In the same way, Christians must accept the spiritual protection that God offers them when He gives them His holy life as a covering. Jesus’ holy life includes His good deeds, His mercy, and Bible truth (Ephesians 4:24; Ephesians 5:9). Our lives will change when we let Jesus live in our hearts. Then we will respect other people and be fair to them.