---
title:  Shoes that Help Us Bring God’s Peace
date:   19/09/2023
---

A Roman soldier tied on a pair of military shoes before he went to war. The bottom of his shoes was very thick. Special nails covered the bottom of the shoe. These nails helped the shoe to grip the ground better when the soldier stood and fought the enemy (Ephesians 6:11, 13, 14). The nails also helped a Roman soldier not to slip and fall during a fight.

`Review the eight times that Paul talks about “peace” in Ephesians: Ephesians 1:2; Ephesians 2:14, 15, 17; Ephesians 4:3; and Ephesians 6:15, 23. Why does Paul use a word picture about war to talk about peace?`

Paul says Jesus “Christ is the reason we are now at peace. . . . Christ came and brought the message of peace to you non-Jews who were far away from God. And he brought that message of peace to those who were near to God” (Ephesians 2:14–17, ERV). Jesus “Christ made both Jews and non-Jews one people. They were separated as if there were a wall between them. But Christ broke down that wall of hate by giving his own body. . . . Christ’s purpose [plan] was to make the two groups of people become one new people in him” (Ephesians 2:14, 15, ICB). Christians are messengers for Jesus. They announce Jesus’ peace and His win in the fight against sin. That is what Paul means when he says that Christians put on shoes the same as peace. These shoes help Christians stand ready to fight.

At the same time, we must understand that Paul doesn’t want us to pick up real weapons and fight against our enemies. The shoes are only a word picture for the good news that fills hearts with God’s peace (Ephesians 6:15). Paul also doesn’t want Christians to argue and fight with their friends, coworkers, and family members. Paul wants us to work together. He wants us to show each other mercy, respect, and love (read Ephesians 4:25–5:2). The church must fight. But we fight against evil with peace. Our “weapons” are a heart empty of all pride, a patient heart, forgiveness, love, and mercy. Our “weapons” also include prayer, worship, and praise to God. When we use these “weapons,” we show other people God’s wonderful plan to make all things new in Jesus (Ephesians 1:9, 10).