---
title:  Shield, Helmet, and Sword
date:   20/09/2023
---

`When should Christians, as God’s soldiers, use God’s shield, helmet, and sword in the war between good and evil? Read Ephesians 6:16, 17 for the answer.`

Paul uses a Roman shield as a word picture. The Roman shield was a large piece of wood that a Roman soldier carried in front of him to protect him from his enemy’s sword and arrows. The wood was covered with leather. The edges of the shield curved back to protect the soldier from blows to his side. In Roman times, arrows were covered in a sticky mixture made from tar and then lit on fire. Roman shields were soaked in water to stop burning arrows. In the same way, God’s shield “can stop all the burning arrows that come from the Evil One” (Ephesians 6:16, ERV).

Paul’s picture of the “shield of faith” (Ephesians 6:16, ERV) helps us remember that Old Testament writers used shields as word pictures for God. God is the same as a shield because He protects His people (Genesis 15:1, NIrV; Psalm 3:3). When Paul orders Christians to pick up “the shield of faith” (Ephesians 6:16, ERV), he wants us to trust God in our fight against evil. God fights for us (Ephesians 6:10). God gives us the best weapons (Ephesians 6:11, 13). God also helps us win the fight.

Another part of God’s battle suit, as we saw, is the helmet or head covering. The helmets that Roman soldiers wore can help us understand God’s helmet. Roman helmets were made from iron or brass. A Roman soldier’s helmet had a bowl-shaped covering that protected his head. A metal flap at the back protected his neck. The helmet also had metal parts that protected the soldier’s ears, the top of his head, and his cheeks. Paul uses this word picture to help us better understand God’s saving mercy (Ephesians 2:6–10). When we put on the helmet of God’s saving mercy, we choose to trust in God. We refuse to be afraid of the spiritual evil that makes so many people afraid in the end times (compare Ephesians 1:15–23; Ephesians 2:1–10).

The last piece of God’s battle suit is a powerful weapon. This weapon is the “sword of [from] the Holy Spirit. The sword is God’s word [Bible]” (Ephesians 6:17, NIrV). A Roman soldier’s sword was short with two sharp edges. In the same way, the Bible is a sharp weapon that “cuts” through Satan’s lies. The Bible, with all its promises, is the most important weapon in our fight against evil.