---
title:  Praying on the Battlefield
date:   21/09/2023
---

At the end of his war sermon, Paul asks his readers, as God’s soldiers, to pray for all Christians everywhere (Ephesians 6:18). Paul also asks his readers to pray for him because he is in jail for being God’s messenger (Ephesians 6:19, 20). In Roman times, armies prayed to their gods on the battlefield to help them win the war. We can read about many examples of battlefield prayers in the Old Testament. After Jahaziel orders God’s people to fight, King Jehoshaphat leads all the people in Judah and Jerusalem in prayer. The king and his people bow to the Lord and worship Him (2 Chronicles 20:18). Of course, prayer isn’t a 7th piece of God’s battle suit. But prayer is an important part of Paul’s war sermon and an important part of his military word picture (Ephesians 6).

If the church wants to have success in the fight against evil, the church must depend fully on God for strength. Prayer is one way that church members show God that they depend on Him.

As we just saw, Paul also asks church members to pray for him (Ephesians 6:19). Paul asks that the church will pray for God to give him the words to say at the right time. Paul wants their prayers to help him do the work that God gave him to do. God commanded Paul to announce the Good News about Jesus and to explain its wonderful mysteries (Ephesians 6:19). Part of this mystery is God’s plan to save non-Jews along with Jews (read Ephesians 3:1–13). Together, these saved ones will be part of God’s new human family (Ephesians 2:15; also, read Ephesians 2:11–22). This work is part of God’s plan to bring everything into agreement and put all things under Jesus (Ephesians 1:10).

`At different times, God’s messengers invite His people to come together and pray. Read in Luke 18:1–8; Philippians 4:6; Colossians 4:2; and 1 Thessalonians 5:16–18 about some of these invitations to pray. Which invitation do you like the most? Why?`

Why does the Bible so often invite us to pray with all our hearts? Paul’s word picture about God’s battle suit gives us two possible answers: (1) Prayer helps protect us in the fight against Satan. (2) God’s battle suit shows us His promise to make us strong and help us win (Ephesians 6:10–17). Prayer helps us trust in God’s promises.