---
title:  Additional thought
date:   22/09/2023
---

“An army in battle became confused and weak unless all its soldiers worked together in agreement. If the soldiers did whatever they wanted, without caring about each other, then the army could not do its work. In the same way, God’s soldiers must act and work together in agreement. No one in the army must think that he is more important than anyone else. When God’s people work together, they will be in perfect agreement. If they do not work together, they will waste time and effort. Their skills will be wasted. Agreement is strength. When a few people work together, under one leader, they will have much success in everything they try to do.”—Ellen G. White, Spalding and Magan Collection, page 121, adapted.

“During times of war, governments often sent peace messengers to talk to the enemy. The peace messenger tried to solve the problems between their country and their enemy so that their two armies didn’t need to fight. Paul named himself as God’s messenger for peace. This name fits well with Paul’s military word picture in Ephesians 6. In Bible times, governments were expected to show respect to the peace messenger from a foreign country. But the Romans didn’t show Paul respect as God’s messenger. They put him in chains. Peace messengers wore a special chain that showed everyone who they were. The Romans saw the chains they made Paul wear as something to be ashamed of. But Paul saw his chains as something to wear with pride and honor because he got them while he served Jesus.”—David J. Williams, Paul’s Metaphors: Their Context and Character (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson, 1999), page 152, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Paul names himself God’s messenger in chains (Ephesians 6:10, NKJV). What is Paul saying?`

`What does it mean for you and your church to bring God’s peace to an earth divided by war? How can we be messengers for peace in communities that are filled with hate and pain?`

`What “arrows of fire” does Satan shoot at you? How can the shield of faith help you put out the fire?`

`What does it mean to be a “prayer warrior”? What helpful advice does Ephesians 6:18–20 give to help us start a prayer group?`