---
title:  Reasons for Thanksgiving and Prayer
date:  03/01/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Phil. 1:1–18, 1 Cor. 13:1–8, Jer. 17:9, Col. 1:1–12, 1 Pet. 1:4, Ps. 119:105, Isa. 30:21.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Being confident of this very thing, that He who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ” (Philippians 1:6, NKJV).

Paul quite intentionally begins his epistles with words of ­greeting—and thanksgiving. “Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ” (Col. 1:2, 3, NKJV).

We, like Paul, have much to be thankful for. We have experienced God’s grace in profound ways—ways that even angels cannot comprehend. The same is true of God’s gift of peace, which embraces harmony with God and the hope flowing from God’s love.

On a human level, we can give and show appreciation to others and hope that people appreciate the things we do for them. Parents pray that their children will love God and appreciate someday, if not now, the real sacrifices they’ve made to give them the best upbringing they could. But, as human beings, we make many mistakes, and we learn from them (or at least we should).

This week we’ll consider Paul’s opening words of thanksgiving and prayer in Philippians and Colossians, which may enrich and strengthen our own prayer life.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, January 10._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Perseverance in prayer has been made a condition of receiving. We must pray always if we would grow in faith and experience. We are to be “instant in prayer,” to “continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving.” Romans 12:12; Colossians 4:2. Peter exhorts believers to be “sober, and watch unto prayer.” 1 Peter 4:7. Paul directs, “In everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God.” Philippians 4:6. “But ye, beloved,” says Jude, “praying in the Holy Ghost, keep yourselves in the love of God.” Jude 20, 21. Unceasing prayer is the unbroken union of the soul with God, so that life from God flows into our life; and from our life, purity and holiness flow back to God.\
There is necessity for diligence in prayer; let nothing hinder you. Make every effort to keep open the communion between Jesus and your own soul. Seek every opportunity to go where prayer is wont to be made. Those who are really seeking for communion with God will be seen in the prayer meeting, faithful to do their duty and earnest and anxious to reap all the benefits they can gain. They will improve every opportunity of placing themselves where they can receive the rays of light from heaven.\
We should pray in the family circle, and above all we must not neglect secret prayer, for this is the life of the soul. It is impossible for the soul to flourish while prayer is neglected. Family or public prayer alone is not sufficient. In solitude let the soul be laid open to the inspecting eye of God. Secret prayer is to be heard only by the prayer-hearing God. No curious ear is to receive the burden of such petitions. In secret prayer the soul is free from surrounding influences, free from excitement. Calmly, yet fervently, will it reach out after God. Sweet and abiding will be the influence emanating from Him who seeth in secret, whose ear is open to hear the prayer arising from the heart. By calm, simple faith the soul holds communion with God and gathers to itself rays of divine light to strengthen and sustain it in the conflict with Satan. God is our tower of strength.\
Pray in your closet, and as you go about your daily labor let your heart be often uplifted to God. It was thus that Enoch walked with God. These silent prayers rise like precious incense before the throne of grace. Satan cannot overcome him whose heart is thus stayed upon God.—Steps to Christ, pp. 97, 98.