---
title:  Fellowship in the Gospel
date:  04/01/2026
---

`Read Philippians 1:3–8. What is Paul thankful for? What reas­surances does he give the Philippians, and why is that important?`

Paul established the church in Philippi; thus, we can see the warmth of Christian fellowship pervading his letter. Though separated by hundreds of miles, Paul, chained and imprisoned, carries the church and its members on his heart; he longs for them “with the affection of Jesus Christ” (Phil. 1:8, NKJV); he gives thanks to God for them. Paul’s prayer of thanksgiving even gives a glimpse of Jesus’ intercession for us in heaven.

On the high priest’s breastplate were 12 stones representing the 12 tribes of Israel. The people were to be “on his heart” as he interceded for them (Exod. 28:29, ESV). In an even greater way, as our High Priest in the heavenly sanctuary, Jesus carries the names of His people with Him before the Father.

Interestingly, the wording of Philippians 1:3 is ambiguous, underscoring the close relationship between Paul and the Philippians. It’s usually translated that Paul remembers them in prayer, but it could also refer to their remembrance of him. In any case, it underscores the close mutuality they share, which the word “fellowship” (Greek: koinonia) also underscores. As Paul had fellowship in Christ’s sufferings (Phil. 3:10), the Philippians “shared” (Greek: sunkoinōneō) in Paul’s sufferings and shared financially to support Paul’s ministry (Phil. 4:14, 15). This mutuality, which was “from the first day until now” (Phil. 1:5), leads him to thank God for them and to pray for them “with joy” (Phil. 1:4).

Interestingly, Paul describes his prison setting quite positively—as providing opportunity for “the defense and confirmation of the gospel” (Phil. 1:7, NKJV). His use of these two legal terms suggests his trial is imminent, but also that Paul is actively engaging soldiers and visitors with the gospel. Defending it (Greek apologia) against attacks and confirming its eternal verities are both essential. Paul seems to care less about his own future than about vindication of the gospel itself. Whether he lives or dies, Paul is confident that God will finish the “good work” He has begun in all who trust in Him (Phil. 1:6).

`How do you understand the promise that God will finish the “good work in you” (Phil. 1:6)? What does that mean? Will this work ever end before the Second Coming?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Paul’s labors at Philippi resulted in the establishment of a church whose membership steadily increased. His zeal and devotion, and, above all, his willingness to suffer for Christ’s sake, exerted a deep and lasting influence upon the converts. They prized the precious truths for which the apostles had sacrificed so much, and gave themselves with wholehearted devotion to the cause of their Redeemer.\
That this church did not escape persecution is shown by an expression in Paul’s letter to them. He says, “Unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on Him, but also to suffer for His sake; having the same conflict which ye saw in me.” Yet such was their steadfastness in the faith that he declares, “I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy, for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now.” Philippians 1:29, 30, 3–5.\
Terrible is the struggle that takes place between the forces of good and of evil in important centers where the messengers of truth are called upon to labor. “We wrestle not against flesh and blood,” declares Paul, “but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world.” Ephesians 6:12. Till the close of time there will be a conflict between the church of God and those who are under the control of evil angels.\
The early Christians were often called to meet the powers of darkness face to face. By sophistry and by persecution the enemy endeavored to turn them from the true faith. At the present time, when the end of all things earthly is rapidly approaching, Satan is putting forth desperate efforts to ensnare the world. He is devising many plans to occupy minds and to divert attention from the truths essential to salvation. In every city his agencies are busily organizing into parties those who are opposed to the law of God. The archdeceiver is at work to introduce elements of confusion and rebellion, and men are being fired with a zeal that is not according to knowledge.\
Wickedness is reaching a height never before attained, and yet many ministers of the gospel are crying, “Peace and safety.” But God’s faithful messengers are to go steadily forward with their work. Clothed with the panoply of heaven, they are to advance fearlessly and victoriously, never ceasing their warfare until every soul within their reach shall have received the message of truth for this time.—The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 218–220.