---
title:  Paul’s Prayer Requests
date:  05/01/2026
---

Some years ago, there was a pastor who talked about prayers that revolve around me, me, me, and my needs or desires. He aptly characterized them as “selfish little prayers,” because God has bigger things in mind.

`Read Paul’s prayer in Philippians 1:9–11. What is its focus, and what big requests does he make? What does it tell you about prayer?`

This prayer is only forty-three words in Greek, but it encapsulates all of Paul’s concerns, which he will expand on in the rest of the epistle: love, knowledge, discernment, being sincere, not causing offense, and the righteousness we have through Jesus Christ. Underlying this prayer, as well as Paul’s previous expressions of thanksgiving, is an emphasis on the church as a whole. Paul’s prayer is completely others-focused, on behalf of the whole church and for its well-being. Let’s look more closely at some of the individual elements of the prayer:

Love to abound more and more. Paul doesn’t just pray for more love but for love guided in a specific direction: “in knowledge and all discernment” (Phil. 1:9, NKJV). The reference to knowledge is not to merely intellectual knowledge but implies a knowledge of spiritual things that can be gained only by fellowship with God and study of His Word (see Eph. 1:17, Eph. 4:13, 1 Tim. 2:4).

Discernment. This is explained by Paul as being able to “approve what is excellent” (distinguishing it from what is morally harmful) “and so be pure and blameless” (Phil. 1:10, ESV).

Being sincere. The word in Greek means “judged by the sunlight” and refers to an untainted purity of action: “Everything that Christians do should be as transparent as the sunlight.”—Ellen G. White, Reflecting Christ, p. 71.

Not causing offense. This means not being a stumbling block, not saying or doing anything that would make it more difficult for a person to believe.

Righteousness through Christ. Paul dwells at length on this in the epistles of Romans and Galatians and will expand on it also in Philippians 3. We have no righteousness of our own but only what we receive through Christ.

`Whatever else we do, how can our love “abound still more and more” (Phil. 1:9, NKJV)? Why is that so important for the Christian life? (See also 1 Cor. 13:1–8.)`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

By Epaphroditus, Paul sent the Philippian believers a letter, in which he thanked them for their gifts to him. Of all the churches, that of Philippi had been the most liberal in supplying Paul’s wants. “Now ye Philippians know also,” the apostle said in his letter, “that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity. Not because I desire a gift: but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. But I have all, and abound: I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing to God.”\
“Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy, for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now; being confident of this very thing, that He which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ: even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace. For God is my record, how greatly I long after you all. . . . And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment; that ye may approve things that are excellent; that ye may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ; being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.”\
The grace of God sustained Paul in his imprisonment, enabling him to rejoice in tribulation. With faith and assurance he wrote to his Philippian brethren that his imprisonment had resulted in the furtherance of the gospel. “I would ye should understand, brethren,” he declared, “that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel; so that my bonds with Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places; and many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.”\
There is a lesson for us in this experience of Paul’s, for it reveals God’s way of working. The Lord can bring victory out of that which may seem to us discomfiture and defeat. We are in danger of forgetting God, of looking at the things which are seen, instead of beholding by the eye of faith the things which are unseen. When misfortune or calamity comes, we are ready to charge God with neglect or cruelty. If He sees fit to cut off our usefulness in some line, we mourn, not stopping to think that thus God may be working for our good. We need to learn that chastisement is a part of His great plan and that under the rod of affliction the Christian may sometimes do more for the Master than when engaged in active service.—The Acts of the Apostles, pp. 479–481.