---
title:  Gospel Fruit
date:  07/01/2026
---

Paul’s relationship with the Colossians was different from his relationship with those in Philippi. He included them among those who “have not seen my face in the flesh” (Col. 2:1). Nevertheless, Paul assures them, as he did the Philippians, that he thanks God for them and is “always” praying for them.

`Read Colossians 1:3–8. What three things does Paul thank God for?`

Paul brings together the three virtues that he mentions in other places: faith, hope, and love (see 1 Cor. 13:13, 1 Thess. 1:3, 1 Thess. 5:8). Notice that Paul doesn’t credit the Colossians for these things. He thanks the Father for them, because as James says they are among the “good and perfect” gifts that we receive from Him (James 1:17, NIV). When we see the love God has for us, it leads us to faith in Christ (Eph. 2:4–8), and we receive the hope of heaven. Peter describes it as “an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled and that does not fade away, reserved in heaven for you” (1 Pet. 1:4, NKJV).

Paul also emphasizes that the gospel is trustworthy because it is based on “the word of truth.” This is an expression Paul uses elsewhere in reference to the inspired word of God (see 2 Cor. 6:7, 2 Tim. 2:15). Unlike “the word of men,” it works “effectually” in those who believe (1 Thess. 2:13) and accomplishes God’s will (Isa. 55:11). So, when the gospel is proclaimed, the power of God is manifested through the work of the Holy Spirit on the hearts of the hearers, and people respond. The gospel itself produces the fruit because it is “the word of life” (Phil. 2:16).

Perhaps what is most amazing is the spread of the gospel in such a short period of time. Within about thirty years of Christ’s death and resur­rection, Paul could already say it had spread “in all the world” (Col. 1:6). A little later in the same chapter, he says the gospel “was preached to every creature under heaven” (Col. 1:23, NKJV). The extensive Roman road system made possible rapid communication and travel, which is how Paul’s epistles could be circulated so widely and quickly. But it is the power of God working through the word that gives birth to spiritual life in a person (James 1:18, 1 Pet. 1:23), making them a new creature in Christ (2 Cor. 5:17).

`In Colossians 1:5, Paul writes about “the hope which is laid up for you in heaven.” What is your understanding of that hope, and why does it apply to you personally, even though you are truly unworthy?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The experience of the apostle Paul in meeting the philosophers of Athens has a lesson for us. In presenting the gospel before the court of the Areopagus, Paul met logic with logic, science with science, philosophy with philosophy. The wisest of his hearers were astonished and silenced. His words could not be controverted. But the effort bore little fruit. Few were led to accept the gospel. Henceforth Paul adopted a different manner of labor. He avoided elaborate arguments and discussion of theories, and in simplicity pointed men and women to Christ as the Saviour of sinners. Writing to the Corinthians of his work among them, he said:\
“I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you, save Jesus Christ, and Him crucified. . . . My speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man’s wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power: that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.” 1 Corinthians 2:1–5.\
Again, in his letter to the Romans, he says:\
“I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.” Romans 1:16.\
Let those who work for the higher classes bear themselves with true dignity, remembering that angels are their companions. Let them keep the treasure house of mind and heart filled with, “It is written.” Hang in memory’s hall the precious words of Christ. They are to be valued far above gold or silver. . . .\
There are miracles to be wrought in genuine conversion, miracles that are not now discerned. The greatest men of the earth are not beyond the power of a wonder-working God. If those who are workers together with Him will do their duty bravely and faithfully, God will convert men who occupy responsible places, men of intellect and influence. Through the power of the Holy Spirit, many will be led to accept the divine principles. . . .\
When converted to Christ, many will become agencies in the hand of God to work for others of their own class. They will feel that a dispensation of the gospel is committed to them for those who have made this world their all. Time and money will be consecrated to God, talent and influence will be devoted to the work of winning souls to Christ.\
Only eternity will reveal what has been accomplished by this kind of ministry—how many souls, sick with doubt and tired of worldliness and unrest, have been brought to the great Restorer, who longs to save to the uttermost all that come unto Him. Christ is a risen Saviour, and there is healing in His wings.—The Ministry of Healing, pp. 214–216.