---
title:  Prayer Power
date:  08/01/2026
---

`Read Colossians 1:9–12. What specific requests do you find in Paul’s prayer?`

Paul prays “that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will.” Paul describes knowing God’s will as “wisdom and spiritual understanding” (Col. 1:9, NKJV). Wisdom comes, first of all, by trusting God fully, being willing to do His will (John 7:17), and not leaning on our own understanding (Prov. 3:5). But the question often arises, “What is God’s will for me in this situation?” There are four main sources from which we may learn God’s will as we seek it prayerfully:

1.	The most important source of wisdom is the Bible. “Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path” (Ps. 119:105, NKJV).

2.	God has given us special wisdom for the last days through the Spirit of Prophecy (Rev. 12:17, Rev. 19:10) as manifested though the writings of Ellen White. The Bible encourages us to “believe in the Lord your God, and you shall be established; believe His prophets, and you shall prosper” (2 Chron. 20:20, NKJV).

3.	God’s will and leading may also be known through providential circumstances, by asking Him to open or close doors (see Col. 4:3).

4.	The Holy Spirit guides us once we have learned to recognize His voice: “Your ears shall hear a word behind you, saying, / ‘This is the way, walk in it,’ / Whenever you turn to the right hand / Or whenever you turn to the left” (Isa. 30:21, NKJV).

Paul prays that the Colossians may “walk worthy of the Lord” (Col. 1:10, NKJV). Of course, no one is inherently “worthy,” but God counts us worthy by His grace and calls us to live in accordance with that high calling (Eph. 4:1, 1 Thess. 2:12, NKJV). Paul uses the verb “walk” or “walked” three more times in this letter alone (Col. 2:6, Col. 3:7, Col. 4:5). It means to live and act in accordance with God’s law (Exod. 18:20), which is possible only through the work of the Holy Spirit (Ezek. 36:27).

Paul also prays that their (and our) lives may be “fully pleasing” to the Lord and then lists several ways to do that: “Being fruitful in every good work” (Col. 1:9, 10, NKJV); then “increasing in the knowledge of God” (Col. 1:10, NKJV); and, finally, in “giving thanks” (Col. 1:12, NKJV).

`If someone were to ask you, “How do you know that God is leading you in one direction or another?” how would you answer—and why?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The great apostle Paul was firm where duty and principle were at stake; but courtesy was a marked trait of his character, and this gave him access to the highest class of society. Paul never doubted the ability of God or His willingness to give him the grace he needed to live the life of a Christian. . . . He does not live under a cloud of doubt, groping his way in the mist and darkness of uncertainty, complaining of hardship and trials. A voice of gladness, strong with hope and courage, sounds all along the line down to our time. Paul had a healthful religious experience. The love of Christ was his grand theme, and the constraining power that governed him.\
When in the most discouraging circumstances, which would have had a depressing influence upon half-way Christians, he is firm of heart, full of courage and hope and cheer. . . . The same hope and cheerfulness is seen when he is upon the deck of the ship, the tempest beating about him, the ship going to pieces. He gives orders to the commander of the ship and preserves the lives of all on board. Although a prisoner, he is really the master of the ship, the freest and happiest man on board. . . .\
When before kings and dignitaries of the earth, who held his life in their hands, he quailed not; for he had given his life to God, and it was hid in Christ. He softened, by his courtesy, the hearts of these men in power, men of fierce temper, wicked and corrupt though they were in heart and life. . . . Propriety of deportment, the grace of true politeness, marked all his conduct. When he stretched out his hand, as was his custom in speaking, the clanking chains caused him no shame or embarrassment. He looked upon them as tokens of honor, and rejoiced that he could suffer for the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ. . . . His reasoning was so clear and convincing that it made the profligate king tremble. . . . Grace, like an angel of mercy, makes his voice heard sweet and clear, repeating the story of the cross, the matchless love of Jesus.—Conflict and Courage, p. 352.

Paul knew that the higher Christian attainments can be reached only through much prayer and constant watchfulness, and this he tried to instill into their minds. But he knew also that in Christ crucified they were offered power sufficient to convert the soul and divinely adapted to enable them to resist all temptations to evil. With faith in God as their armor, and with His word as their weapon of warfare, they would be supplied with an inner power that would enable them to turn aside the attacks of the enemy.—The Acts of the Apostles, p. 307.