---
title:  Further Thought
date:  09/01/2026
---

“Many are unable to make definite plans for the future. Their life is unsettled. They cannot discern the outcome of affairs, and this often fills them with anxiety and unrest. Let us remember that the life of God’s children in this world is a pilgrim life. We have not wisdom to plan our own lives. It is not for us to shape our future. ‘By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither he went.’ Hebrews 11:8.

“Christ in His life on earth made no plans for Himself. He accepted God’s plans for Him, and day by day the Father unfolded His plans. So should we depend upon God, that our lives may be the simple outworking of His will. As we commit our ways to Him, He will direct our steps.

“Too many, in planning for a brilliant future, make an utter failure. Let God plan for you. As a little child, trust to the guidance of Him who will ‘keep the feet of His saints.’ 1 Samuel 2:9. God never leads His children otherwise than they would choose to be led, if they could see the end from the beginning and discern the glory of the purpose which they are fulfilling as co-workers with Him.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pp. 478, 479.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about the past week and list things you are thankful for. Might you have more to be thankful for than you realize?`

`Dwell on the last line of the Ellen G. White quote above. That’s a very powerful statement of faith. How can you learn to trust God in such a deep way?`

`In light of Colossians 1:6, 23, discuss the following statement: “For forty years did unbelief, murmuring, and rebellion shut out ancient Israel from the land of Canaan. The same sins have delayed the entrance of modern Israel into the heavenly Canaan. In neither case were the promises of God at fault. It is the un­belief, the worldliness, unconsecration, and strife among the Lord’s professed people that have kept us in this world of sin and sorrow so many years. Had the church of Christ done her appointed work as the Lord ordained, the whole world would before this have been warned and the Lord Jesus would have come to our earth in power and great glory.”—Ellen G. White, Last Day Events, p. 38. In what ways might we today be guilty of the same things?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Ye Shall Receive Power, “Developing Spiritual Discernment,” April 5, p. 104.\
In Heavenly Places, “Prayer in the Home,” March 24, p. 90.\