---
title:  Commander Of The Lord’s Army
date:  19/10/2025
---

`Read Joshua 5:13–15. What does this verse say happened before Israel started to fight for the Promised Land?`

Israel just crossed the Jordan River. The people now stand on the enemy’s land. The city of Jericho lies in front of them. Its gates are closed (Joshua 6:1). The Israelites don’t have a battle plan. Worse, they have only stone throwers, spears, and arrows to fight with.

Then a stranger comes to visit Joshua. Joshua asks this man who he is. The visitor’s answer shows that He is not anyone Joshua thinks He is. In other words, the important question is not if He is on Joshua’s side. But is Joshua on His side?

`Compare Joshua 5:14, 15 with 2 Kings 6:8–17; Nehemiah 9:6; and Isaiah 37:16. What do these verses tell us about who the Commander of the Lord’s army is?`

The only time in the Bible that we read about the “Commander of the Lord’s army” (NKJV) is right here. We won’t find these words anywhere else in the Bible. Together, the words “Commander” and “army” always mean a military leader. The word “army” in the Bible can mean soldiers, angels, or the sun, moon, and stars.

Jesus appears to Joshua as a Friend and Helper. Jesus is the true Captain of Israel’s army. More than all these things, Jesus is the Commander of the unseen army of angels. These angels help in the fight that is the biggest fight of all: the worldwide war between good and evil. Joshua’s answer shows that he understands that the Commander is the Lord God. Joshua falls down in front of Him to show his respect and to worship Him (Joshua 5:14; Genesis 17:3; 2 Samuel 9:6; 2 Chronicles 20:18). Joshua is ready to follow the Lord’s battle plan. Their fight for the Promised Land is part of a bigger war that includes God Himself and heaven’s army.

`The Commander of heaven’s army is at work. He works hard to protect His people on earth. What hope should this Bible truth give us?`