---
title:  War In Heaven
date:  20/10/2025
---

`Joshua understood that the battle was part of a bigger fight. The name of this fight is the worldwide war between God and Satan. What do we know about this war? Read Revelation 12:7–9; Isaiah 14:12–14; Ezekiel 28:11–19; and Daniel 10:12–14.`

God filled heaven and many planets in outer space with people. God gave these people and us free will. Because we are all free to choose, we are free to love. We can choose to serve God. Or we can fight against Him. Lucifer chose to fight against God. Lucifer was the most powerful of the angels. Many angels chose to join Lucifer in his war.

Isaiah 14 and Ezekiel 28 talk about this war. (Some Bible thinkers say that these chapters talk only about the king of Babylon and a leader in Tyre. But there are clear hints that these chapters in Isaiah and Ezekiel talk about something more.) The Bible says that the king of Babylon wanted to put his throne above God’s throne (Isaiah 14:12, 13). The Bible also says that the king of Tyre lived in Eden. He was as an angel on God’s holy mountain (Ezekiel 28:12–15). None of these things are true about the real kings of Babylon and Tyre. But they are true about Lucifer.

The real kings of Babylon and Tyre weren’t perfect. But Lucifer was perfect before he sinned. For sure, the kings of Babylon and Tyre in the verses are symbols of something much more. So, what are those symbols talking about? Isaiah is really telling us a picture story. He uses the king of Babylon as a symbol for fighting against God and pride. In the same way, Ezekiel also uses symbols. Ezekiel tells us that the real prince of Tyre (Ezekiel 28:2) is not the same as the king of Tyre (Ezekiel 28:11, 12). The prince is a leader on this earth. He is a symbol for the king who is invisible to human eyes. This king lived in heaven before he was thrown out. This king says that he is the leader of the whole earth.

According to Daniel 10:12–14, Satan and his angels try all the time to stop God’s work on this earth. This worldwide war is going on behind everything that we see happening around us. The worldwide war between God and Satan, good and evil, was behind the wars that Joshua and Israel fought, too. So, Israel’s wars were part of this worldwide war.

`How do we see this worldwide war going on around us?`