---
title:  The Lord Is A Warrior
date:  21/10/2025
---

`What does it mean that God is a warrior? Read Exodus 2:23–25; Exodus 12:12, 13; and Exodus 15:3–11 for the answer.`

During their long stay in Egypt, the Israelites forgot about God. They started to mix false religious ideas with true worship (compare with Exodus 32:1–4). The Egyptians made the Israelites their slaves. So, the Israelites cried to God to save them (Exodus 2:23–25). At the right time, the Lord came to save them.

But the fight in Exodus 1–12 was more than a war between Moses and Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. In the Near East, people believed that fights between people groups were really fights between their gods. Exodus 12:12 announces that the Lord judged both Pharaoh and the gods of Egypt. The gods of Egypt were really powerful demons (Leviticus 17:7; Deuteronomy 32:17). These demons were the real power behind the throne of Egypt. They were the reason the laws weren’t fair.

God is at war with sin. God won’t allow sin or the worldwide war between good and evil to happen forever (Psalm 24:8; Revelation 19:11; Revelation 20:1–4, 14). God will destroy all the evil angels and sinners who love to break His law. This promise helps us to understand the wars in the Bible better. Israel’s wars were part of the bigger worldwide war between good and evil. This war led to the Cross. The war will end when God judges all things. Then we will see that God was fair and loving in everything that happened in human history.

The worldwide war between God and Satan also helps us better understand why God destroyed the Canaanites. God is at war with evil. Satan lied about God. God will show everyone in heaven and on earth that Satan’s words are lies (Romans 3:4; Revelation 15:3).

So, we must choose: God’s side or the side of evil. When we understand these ideas, we will understand better why God destroyed the Canaanites. Their death shows us the final work God will do as Judge of everyone on earth.

`In the worldwide war between God and Satan, there are only two sides. How do you know which side you are really on?`