---
title:  The Lord Will Fight For You
date:  22/10/2025
---

`What was God’s first plan for the Israelites in war? Read Exodus 14:13, 14, 25 for the answer.`

When the Israelites were in trouble, Moses said, “ ‘Don’t be afraid! Don’t run away! Stand where you are and watch the Lord save you today. You will never see these Egyptians again. You will not have to do anything but stay calm. The Lord will do the fighting for you’ ” (Exodus 14:13, 14, ERV). The Bible says that the Egyptians understood that God fought for His people: “The Egyptians shouted, ‘Let’s get out of here! The Lord is fighting against us. He is fighting for the Israelites’ ” (Exodus 14:25, ERV).

What happened at the Red Sea shows us God’s plan for how God would help Israel. God will fight the battle. While God fights for Israel, Israel must not fight (Exodus 14:14). God is the warrior. He is in control of the fight. God makes the battle plan. He decides how and when He will fight to protect His people. God is in charge of the battle. If the Lord doesn’t fight for Israel, they will have no chance of success.

History shows us that whenever the Israelites ­trusted in God, they did not need to fight (read 2 Kings 19; 2 Chronicles 32; Isaiah 37).

In God’s perfect plan, Israel never needed to fight their own battles. God showed His people that they didn’t need to use a weapon against the Egyptians in the desert. God fought the battle for Israel. In the same way, the Israelites didn’t need to fight the Canaanites to win the Promised Land (Deuteronomy 7:17–19). But the Israelites didn’t trust God enough to let Him fight for them. So, God allowed them to fight in the war against the Canaanites.

`“The Israelites complained against the Lord. So, the Lord allowed their enemies to make war with them.”—Ellen G. White, The Story of Redemption, page 134, ­adapted. What happens today when we complain against the Lord?`