---
title:  The Second-Best Choice
date:  23/10/2025
---

`Read Exodus 17:7–13 and Joshua 6:15–20. How are these two war stories the same? How are they different?`

In Exodus 17, we read about the first time Israel fought after leaving Egypt. The Israelites fought against the Amalekites. A few weeks earlier, Israel saw God’s mighty power when He judged the Egyptians. Then God helped the Israelites escape Egypt. We also saw that God’s first plan for the Israelites didn’t include their needing to fight (Exodus 23:28; Exodus 33:2). But shortly after God led the Israelites from Egypt, they started to complain on the way to the Promised Land (Exodus 17:3). The Israelites wondered if God was even with them. At this moment, the Amalekites came to fight against Israel. This fight didn’t happen because of bad luck. God allowed the Amalekites to attack the Israelites so that they would learn to trust Him again.

God meets His people where they are. God is always inviting His people to come back to Him and His perfect plan for their lives. We must trust in Him. That’s why God waited 40 years before He gave His people the rules about war. The people doubted God. So, they wandered in the desert for 40 years. Now the 40 years are over. The Israelites are ready to enter the Promised Land. New fights need new war plans. That was the time when God commanded the Israelites to completely destroy the Canaanites (Deuteronomy 20:16–18).

Now Israel must fight against their enemies. God used war as a test. The test showed the Israelites what was in their hearts. Would they be loyal to God and trust in Him? God didn’t give up on His people. He allowed them to see His power. But before Israel went to war, they first needed to show God that they totally depended on Him.

In Joshua 24:11, we read that the Canaanites fought against the Israelites. God caused the walls of Jericho to come down. But the Israelites also had a part to do. They went with the Lord into battle. They stood against the stubborn people of the city who refused to serve God.

Israel’s wars became a way of learning to trust in God’s help completely. At the same time, the Israelites always knew that God decided if they won or lost (Joshua 7:12, 13; Joshua 10:8). The only way the Israelites could win a war was with faith in the promises of God. The choice to trust Him was their own.