---
title:  Additional Thought
date:  24/10/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Fall of Jericho,” pages 487–493, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

When Satan and his angels fought against God, God had a choice. God could choose to give up the leadership of heaven to an evil angel. Or God could continue to be who He was. He was the holy, loving Father of everything that lived. The Bible shows us that God chose to be who He was. So, His choice meant that Satan went to war against Him.

Today, Satan and his army of evil angels and people continue to fight against God. Long ago, the Lord chose to enter this fight to save sinners from sin and Satan. In Old Testament times, the Lord came to help His people. The Lord is a mighty warrior. This picture of God helps us understand that He will fight for us in the end times. God finally will end the worldwide war between good and evil (Revelation 20:8–10). Israel’s wars in Old Testament times are a picture of this worldwide war. Israel’s wars also give us hope that God will judge in favor of His people.

“God chose the time when His people should enter into the Promised Land. But the people didn’t trust in the Lord. So, God removed His offer to His people to let them enter at that time. . . . God didn’t want His people to fight to win the land. He wanted them to obey His commands. When they were obedient, He would reward their obedience. Then He would give them the Promised Land as a gift.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 392, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`How does the worldwide war between good and evil help you understand why God commanded Israel to go to war?`

`Talk about the question at the end of Monday’s study. How do we know that the worldwide war is happening around us? What is our part in this war? How can we do what God asks of us in this fight?`

`What does it mean to “stand still” and wait for God to fight for us in our spiritual life?`

`Many times when we disagree about things in the church, we want to see who is on our side. How should Joshua 5:13–15 change our hearts?`