---
title:  A Journey for a Cause
date:  01/09/2018
---

**Introduction**: Acts 19:1

Whenever we get involved in doing something for a cause, the goal is to accomplish a specific target. It can be an awareness campaign toward environmental conservation, a freedom from hunger walk, or a charity event to raise funds. In many cases, the event is to raise a given amount of money. In some cases, the event aims at reaching a number of people with special information. One such event is the Heart Walk, organized by the American Heart Association. The aim of the event is to help raise money to fight heart disease worldwide.

One thing is unique about such activities: they are voluntary. You participate only if you feel touched by the noble cause. The Heart Walk, for example, takes place in more than 350 locations in the United States of America, with different families from diverse backgrounds involved. The proceeds from the event go to various organizations and health institutions to fight heart attacks and strokes in places located thousands of miles away from the physical location of the event.

In the Bible, the story of Paul points us to one of the disciples of Christ who embarked on several journeys for a cause. In his third missionary journey, Paul focused on Ephesus, where there were some converts of John the Baptist. Paul’s life was a complete turnaround, from a persecutor of Christians to the most effective missionary of all time. A notorious oppressor who experienced total transformation through the gospel, Paul defied the magicians, soothsayers, and the state law officials of Ephesus and planted Christian churches in the region.

Paul is one of the disciples who led the massive gospel campaign after the ascension of Christ, which resulted in the growth spurt of Christianity among the Gentiles and the Jews. From his teachings about Jesus and the kingdom of God, many people believed and Christian churches were established.

From the thirteenth chapter of the book of Acts, we can see the focus on Paul and his involvement in the preaching of the good news and making of new disciples. With blossoming reputation, Paul made friends and enemies in equal measure. However, one thing stands out: his journey for a cause laid the groundwork in which Christian theology today finds its roots.

This week, the focus of our discussion is Paul’s third missionary journey, in which he helped establish Christian churches in Ephesus and the surrounding cities, in spite of the odds he faced.

_Beatrice Akinyi, Ndhiwa, Kenya_