---
title:  Achievements of Mission
date:  02/09/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 20:7–12

The ancient Ephesus could well compare to some of the great cities of the modern world. Think about some of the largest cities of the modern world that you know: Tokyo, Jakarta, Delhi, Manila, Beijing, or New York.

At the time of Paul’s visit, Ephesus led the region in commerce, industry, entertainment, and more. A major seaport, like Dubai, it attracted people from all corners of the region for commercial and industrial activities. Three major roads connected the seaport to Babylon in the east, Smyrna to the north, and the Meander Valley to the south.

The Temple of Artemis was the most striking feature of the place. “Considered one of the seven wonders of the ancient world, Ephesus’ Temple of Artemis was dedicated to the goddess of the hunt. Only the foundation and one column remain of this temple which once measured 425 feet long, 220 feet wide, and 60 feet high.”*

By God’s leading hand, Paul was able to overcome the challenges in Ephesus. By the time he left, many churches had been planted, and the number of Christians grew tremendously among the Jews and the Gentiles.

With the same spirit of humility and dependence upon God, we can accomplish much more in our time. Paul was able to raise the dead (Acts 20:10). He was also able to plant churches and to win more believers in the face of opposition from angry citizens. His successful ministry in Ephesus was a threat to the Temple of Artemis and idolatry that was rampant in the region.

Yet the technology during Paul’s time was not as developed as that of our time. Today we can take a virtual tour of a place, even without setting foot on its soil. With road and air transport, we can reach places faster than Paul, who depended mainly on water transport. Today we have social media and mobile devices for communication. We can write emails instead of letters. We can use the improvements of our time to accomplish mission goals.

For this reason, each member of the church today can do more as a missionary.

**React**

`How does technology help us to achieve our mission goals in this era?`

`Apart from raising the dead, what other miracles did Paul perform during his mission in Ephesus?`

_Dismas Okello, Ndhiwa, Kenya_