---
title:  Lessons From Paul’s Missionary Journey
date:  03/09/2018
---

**Logos**: Acts 19:1–7; 23–41; 20:7–12, 15–27; 2 Cor. 4:8–14; Acts 21:10–14

**Redefining Christianity (Acts 19:1–7)**

John the Baptist prepared the way for Christ by baptizing people who repented from their sins. During that time, John spoke widely of the Messiah who would baptize with the Holy Spirit. But Paul encounters disciples in Ephesus who have never even heard of the Holy Spirit (Acts 19:2). He takes a walk with them down memory lane, and they acknowledge that they, indeed, received the baptism of John (verse 3). At this point, Paul begins to clarify things.

He explains that John the Baptist called people to repentance and to believe in Jesus Christ, who is able to affirm their salvation. The belief in Christ is complete after baptism and reception of the Holy Spirit (Eph. 1:13). The endowment of the Holy Spirit upon believers is one of the fundamental characteristics of Christians. From that point, a believer begins a new life with and in Christ.

**Commercialized Worship (Acts 19:23–41)**

With deep-rooted cults and idolatry, Ephesus was a promising hub of commerce under the guise of religion. As one commentator records, “The silversmiths of Ephesus regarded their guild as being under the special patronage of Artemis, in whose honor so many of their wares were manufactured. Among these wares were miniature silver niches, containing an image of the goddess, which her votaries bought to dedicate in the temple. The sale of these was a source of considerable profit to the silversmiths.”1

Paul’s presence and purpose in Ephesus sparked a riot of the citizens, who benefited heavily from idolatry. However, God’s leading hand is evident in the entire episode when the city clerk disperses the crowd and orders amicable settlement of the matter. Similar instances are possible in our missionary journeys today. Paul approached such volatile situations cautiously, prayerfully, and with total dependence upon God. He had to suffer for his successes, but he did not give up. In the end, he was able to leave a trail of churches in Ephesus with more believers than he found.

**Paul Was a Servant of the People (Acts 20:15–27)**

Discipleship is about servant leadership, a sacrifice that Christ Himself typified (Phil. 2:7). Paul himself was a servant of Christ, and he was committed to mentoring leaders that would perpetuate the cause of Christ in Ephesus, even in his absence. He viewed himself as a servant of Christ (Rom. 1:1; Col 1:7; 4:7). “When a man truly sees himself as a servant of Christ, he will take up the towel and basin as Jesus did (John 13:1–17), and serve others out of love. Lording it over others is the world’s way. Christ’s way is that the greatest among us should be the servant of all (Mark 10:42–45).”2

From the example of Paul, we should see ourselves as servants working on behalf of Christ to finish the work He started. Another lesson we can learn from the farewell speech is that Paul served with transparent integrity. He lived his life openly with nothing to hide. This happens only when you recognize that you are a servant of the Lord, who knows you inside out.

**Obedience to God’s Word and Dependence on the Holy Spirit (Acts 21:10–14)**

As he continued in his mission, Paul was aware of the dangers that lurked in his way. However, he had already surrendered his all to Jesus. On this particular day, a prophet comes and foretells what lies ahead of Paul. His arrest is imminent and his companions are scared. For his part, Paul takes everything easy and declares that he is ready to lay down his own life for Christ’s sake.

Today, mission would direct us to places and situations that may scare us. Some places are too cold, with subzero temperatures. Others are wartorn, with constant civil strife. All the same, when we begin our mission by trusting Jesus, nothing will stop us from accomplishing His goals for us. Paul was able to raise the dead and to perform great miracles (Acts 20:7– 12) because he trusted in a higher power. When that happens, we simply become vessels to accomplish God’s goals. Paul sought God through His Word and by praying diligently over time.

**When God Is in Control (2 Cor. 4:8–14)**

In Paul’s letter to the Philippians, he mentions that he can face all conditions by the power of Christ (Phil. 4:13). Paul is convinced that the grace of God is sufficient to carry him through all the challenges and tribulations in his mission. He is not blind to the scary situations and the opposition that lie on his way. However, he confesses that once God is in the driver’s seat, we are able to grow from strength to strength and overcome all the odds.

Like Paul, we face danger in various quarters by proclaiming the gospel. We can lose friends, or we can be badly hurt for Christ’s sake. However, amid all this, we should be ready to lay down our lives for His sake. The glory of a missionary is to see that the grace of God reaches more people, so that they can give their lives to Christ.

**React**

`What other lessons can we learn from Paul’s missionary work in Ephesus that can help us in our mission work today?`

_Seline Khavetsa, Nairobi, Kenya_