---
title:  Walking in Paul’s Footsteps
date:  05/09/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 21:10–14

With Paul’s message advancing across the nation, the Ephesians feared that their profitable businesses might come to a sudden end. The temple in Ephesus was one of the seven wonders of the ancient world.

Religious pilgrims were a source of business to many citizens, and nobody would question the usefulness of the gods and goddesses made by humans. When Paul entered the place with the message of Christianity, there was outright opposition from the majority of the citizens who wanted to protect their way of life.

However, Paul played an important role in dealing with a difficult audience. In many of his speeches, he reiterated his past life. He’d cheered as a mob stoned Stephen, the first Christian martyr (Acts 8:1). He’d led gangs that persecuted Christians (verse 3). But Christ had intervened in Paul’s life (Acts 9:1–19), and now every cell of his body was working toward the perpetuation of the gospel.

After his conversion, no obstacle could stand between Paul and Jesus Christ. His mission in Ephesus led to the establishment of Christian churches among the Gentiles. Paul is an example for us as we struggle to complete the work of the gospel in this era. How can we walk in his footsteps? The following lessons can help us in our mission work today:

Be close to believers. During his evangelistic missions, Paul found it easy to move across various territories through a network of believers (Acts 18:18; 17:10; 19:9). We must remain close to believers in Christ because through them we can establish more churches.

Forget about the distractions. The territories that Paul conquered with the gospel were bustling with trade, education, and all sorts of things alluring to the human eye. In Ephesus, Paul stayed for two years, but with one goal: “So that all the people who lived in the province of Asia, both Jews and Gentiles, heard the word of the Lord” (Acts 19:10, TEV).

Depend on God entirely. Even in the midst of numerous challenges, Paul remained dependent upon God, who revealed Himself to him in visions (Acts 18:9).

**React**

`What other characteristics of Paul can you mention that enabled him to accomplish the goals of his missions?`

_Gerald Otieno, Karungu Bay, Kenya_