---
title:  My Goal in Mission
date:  06/09/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 20:24

During an election season every aspiring politician is out to sell his or her policies to the electorate. On a bus to town, one middle-aged man chanted slogans in favor of a certain politician. Everyone inside the bus found it normal because it was campaign time. “I support _____ even if you do not want him!” he reiterated, his voice raging above the light murmurs from the passengers. Regardless of the presence of different people with diverse political affiliations inside the bus, the man continued showing his support until he arrived at his destination.

The boldness that the middle-aged man in the bus had is one of the qualities that we need to stand out and market Jesus to a world in darkness. Many circumstances may hinder our efforts to spread the gospel to unreached territories. However, Paul challenges us: “ ‘But I reckon my own life to be worth nothing to me; I only want to complete my mission and finish the work that the Lord Jesus gave me to do’ ” (Acts 20:24, TEV).

My goal in mission is to partner with Christ to finish the work that the apostles started. Paul devoted his life to ensure that the Word of God reached every corner of Ephesus. In his own words, he was ready “to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus” (Acts 21:13). If we follow the example of Paul, we can reach the unreached places with the gospel. We can double the number of believers.

Like in an election year when everyone is marketing his or her favorite politician, we must come out boldly to proclaim the first, second, and third angels’ messages to the world. This is a duty of every member of the church. Christ wants us to be sowers of His Word in our generation. More than 20 million members of the Seventh-day Adventist Church are called to join the apostles in telling the world about the righteousness and redemption that only Christ can give.

We can accomplish our goal in mission when we recognize Christ and His righteousness (John 12:32), when we remain faithful to Him (Rev. 2:10), and when we are totally involved in evangelism and witnessing (John 9:37, 38, 4).

**React**

`1. What is one thing that you can do for Christ in your community?`

`2. How can the church empower her members to get involved in mission?`

_Millicent Akinyi, Nakuru, Kenya_