---
title:  A Journey of More Than a Thousand Miles
date:  07/09/2018
---

**Exploration**: Acts 18:23

**Conclude**

A long journey begins with a single step. Christ Himself started the journey of Christianity and passed it on to His followers after He ascended to heaven. The apostles were the first followers of Christ, and they bore the responsibility of taking the gospel to various places and to different people. Paul traveled more than 1,500 miles to spread the gospel in Ephesus, Corinth, Jerusalem, and many other places. What do you and I do to finish the mission work?

**Consider**

- Accepting the challenge to serve on a short mission trip during your gap year in college. As a young adult missionary, think about what you can achieve for Jesus in a span of two, four, or six weeks.

- Building your faith by exploring other parts of the Bible in which other apostles were involved in mission work. Apply their principles and characteristics to help you become a better missionary today.

- Creating an acronym with the word missionary. For each letter, find a word that describes the quality of a humble leader. For instance, letter S—for servant.

- Searching the Web for the names of modern-day missionaries and their achievements. What can you learn from these people that can help you become a better leader?

- Interviewing different people on what they think about missionary work locally and abroad. Use their views to help you make a decision about whether you can go on a mission trip locally or abroad.

- Using modern-day technology to carry out mission work. Think of how you can use social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, and more to accomplish the goals of mission both locally and internationally.

**Connect**

Matthew 28:16–20 in a modern translation.

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 27, “Ephesus.”

Gorden R. Doss, “The Challenges of Adventist Discipleship,” Journal of Adventist Mission Studies 12, no. 2 (2016), pp. 149–159, http://digital commons.andrews.edu/jams/vol12/iss2/13.

_Samuel Ochieng’, Ndhiwa, Kenya_