---
title:  Paul’s Work in Corinth
date:   27/06/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson
1 Corinthians 1:1; Acts 17:16–34; Acts 18:1–3; Acts 18:9, 10; 1 Corinthians 1:11–13.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “But one night, the Lord appeared to Paul in a vision. He said, ‘Do not be afraid of those people who are against you. Continue to speak my message to the people here. Do not stop speaking to them. I am here with you. Nobody will hurt you. There are many people in this city who will believe in me’ ” (Acts 18:9, 10, EASY).

William Carey was a famous Bible worker in his day. Carey was also a shoemaker. Carey used to say that he repaired and made shoes for a living. But his real business was winning people to Jesus.

In the same way, Paul earned his living as a tentmaker (Acts 18:1–3). But Paul’s real business, of course, was winning people to Jesus.

This week, we will look at Paul’s work in the church at Corinth. As we will see, the church in this city was full of problems. We have many of these same problems in our churches today, almost 2,000 years later. For sure, anyone who serves in church work for a long time can ask the question: Is there any church group that doesn’t have problems? Of course, we know the answer is No.

Paul had many problems to solve in Corinth. His answer to the problems was the Cross (1 Corinthians 2:2). We must solve our church problems the same way, too: with the Cross. As we will learn this quarter, the messages of 1 and 2 Corinthians are for our lives, too.