---
title:  "Paul: God’s Chosen Teacher and Leader"
date:   28/06/2026
---

Paul starts his letter to the Corinthians with these words: “God chose me to be an apostle [leader and teacher] of [for] Christ Jesus” (1 Corinthians 1:1, EASY; compare with 2 Corinthians 1:1). Paul became a leader and teacher for the church “just as God planned” (1 Corinthians 1:1, NIrV). Paul starts most of his letters this way. For sure, he understands who he is and what God wants him to do.

`Read 1 Corinthians 1:1 and Romans 1:1. What two parts of Paul’s work for God do we read about in these verses?`

Paul says that his work is part of God’s plan for His church. Paul believes that God, and not men, chose him to preach and teach. God chose Paul before he was born, the same as He chose Jeremiah (Jeremiah 1:5). God’s choice of Paul shows His love (Galatians 1:15, 16) to the non-Jews.

In 1 Corinthians 15:5–7, Paul talks about the people who saw Jesus after He woke up from the dead. Paul includes himself as one of those people (1 Corinthians 15:8). A few verses later, Paul talks about what happened when he met Jesus. Because of their meeting, the Lord chose Paul to be a leader and teacher (1 Corinthians 15:9–11).

The words “an apostle [leader and teacher] of Christ Jesus” (1 Corinthians 1:1, EASY) teach us some important ideas. First, the words “of Christ Jesus” can mean “for” or “from” Jesus. These words show us that Jesus sent Paul. Second, these same words show us that Paul is a servant of Jesus (Romans 1:11; Titus 1:1; Galatians 1:10). Third, Paul is a preacher and a teacher (1 Timothy 2:7; 2 Timothy 1:1). Fourth, Jesus is always the topic of Paul’s preaching and teaching. In short, Jesus sent Paul and gave him his work. So, Paul is both an apostle **from** Jesus and **for** Jesus.

Jesus is also the most important part of Paul’s life. Just look at how many times Paul talks about Jesus in his letter! Paul loves to talk about Him. Paul wanted to share Jesus with the church so they would love and follow Jesus, too.

`God chose Paul to be a preacher and teacher. What did God choose you to do? How do you know He chose you? If you don’t think God chose you to do anything, why do you feel this way? Why not go to God right now and ask Him to show you the work He chose you to do?`