---
title:  From Athens to Corinth
date:   29/06/2026
---

`Where was Paul before he went to Corinth? Also, what did Paul do there before he went to Corinth? Read Acts 17:16–34 for the answers.`

Acts 17:16–34 talks about Paul’s preaching to the Athenians before he went to Corinth. Paul didn’t plan to visit Athens at that time. But he went there with the help of some friends after he left Berea. Paul left Berea because Jews came to Berea and caused trouble for Paul.

Then Paul’s traveling companions left Athens and went back to Berea. Paul sent these men with a command for Timothy and Silas to join him right away (Acts 17:15). Acts 17:16–34 tells us what Paul did while he waited for Timothy and Silas to join him. Paul talked about Jesus in the Jewish church, the marketplace, and the Areopagus. The Areopagus is the Greek court in Athens. Paul couldn’t stop talking about Jesus! Paul talked about Jesus everywhere.

`What does Paul do when he arrives at Corinth? Read Acts 18:1–11 for the answer.`

Paul went to Corinth during his second preaching trip. Luke tells us that Paul stayed in Corinth 1½ years.

Paul always started his work for God at the Jewish church (Acts 18:4–6; also read Acts 17:1, 2). Paul believed that “the good news was for the Jews first” (Romans 1:16, WE; Acts 13:46). Then Paul preached the Good News about Jesus to the non-Jews. Paul followed this plan. This plan was the same one that Jesus gave to His followers (read Acts 1:8).

Finally, Silas and Timothy joined Paul in Corinth. During his time in the city, Paul spent “all his time preaching to the Jews. He taught that Jesus was the Christ [Savior]” (Acts 18:5, NLV). Paul was busy “teaching God’s message to the people” (Acts 18:11, ERV). At this time, Paul wrote these famous words to the Corinthians: “While I was with you, I decided to teach you only about Jesus Christ. I taught you about his death on a cross. I wanted to forget everything else” (1 Corinthians 2:2, EASY).

`Paul preached the Good News about Jesus everywhere he went in Athens and Corinth. Think about the places you go every day. Who do you meet in those places? Ask God to give you the words to touch their hearts with His love for them.`