---
title:  “ ‘Many of My People Are in This City’ ”
date:   01/07/2026
---

`What happened when Paul preached in the city of Corinth? Read Acts 18:4–8 for the answer.`

Paul’s work with the Jews at Corinth wasn’t a big success. Paul hoped for so much more. But many of the Jews in the city hated Paul. The Bible says that “they insulted him” (Acts 18:6, EASY). The word “insulted” in this verse shows us that the Jews in Corinth said evil things about Paul. They ­wanted to destroy his good name. They also planned to stop his work from being a success.

But Paul’s work in the Jewish church wasn’t a complete waste of time. God was in charge. God promised, “ ‘What I promise to do will certainly happen’ ” (Isaiah 55:11, EASY). Some Jews didn’t expect Crispus to accept Jesus as the Savior. Crispus was the leader of the Jewish church in Corinth. Crispus and everyone living in his house got baptized (Acts 18:8). Also, “many other people in Corinth also listened to Paul. They, too, believed and were baptized” (Acts 18:8, ERV). Some Bible thinkers believe that these Corinthians accepted Jesus because of Crispus.

`How did Paul feel about his troubles in Corinth? How did God encourage Paul? Read Acts 18:9, 10 for the answers.`

Right after Paul left the Jewish church, he had a surpris­ing experience that gave him hope. Jesus Himself came to Paul at night in a dream. Jesus’ words to Paul help us remember Isaiah 41:10: “ ‘I am with you, so do not be afraid’ ” (EASY). This message was just what Paul needed to hear most. Later, Paul tells the Corinthians, “I lived among [with] you as someone who felt weak. I was very afraid” (1 Corinthians 2:3, EASY). You will remember that Paul left Berea to go to Athens because some people fought against him. Did Paul think he must leave Corinth for the same reason? For sure. But God did not allow that to happen. Jesus says to Paul: “ ‘I am here with you. Nobody will hurt you. There are many people in this city who will believe in me’ ” (Acts 18:10, EASY). God chose Paul to share the Good News about the Savior with the people in Corinth.

`Read Isaiah 41:10. What wonderful promises does God give you in this verse? What hope do they give you right now in your daily life?`