---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   03/07/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “Corinth,” pages 243–254, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“Paul preached the Good News about Jesus in Corinth. Paul’s plan for preaching was different from his plan at Athens. . . . Paul decided to avoid long sermons and talks. He ­decided ‘to teach’ the Corinthians ‘only about Jesus Christ’ and ‘his death on a cross. I wanted to forget everything else’ [1 Corinthians 2:2, EASY].”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 244, adapted.

“Paul had some success. But he didn’t think that Corinth was the best place for a church. So, he decided to leave the city. . . .

“As Paul thought about leaving the city to work elsewhere, the Lord came to him in a dream at night. The Lord said, ‘I am here with you. Nobody will hurt you. There are many people in this city who will believe in me’ [Acts 18:10, EASY]. Paul believed this dream was a command from God to stay in Corinth. The dream was also a promise. God would give him success. . . . A large church was started for Jesus in this city.”—Ellen G. White, Sketches From the Life of Paul, pages 106, 107, adapted.

“Paul worked for 1 ½ years in Corinth. During that time, he worked for other places, too. . . . Paul made Corinth his headquarters. . . . He started many churches in other places at this time. . . . Paul couldn’t be at all the churches. So, he wrote letters to the churches under his care. These letters were strong and powerful. The churches believed these letters were from God. . . . The leaders read these letters in the churches.”—Ellen G. White, Sketches From the Life of Paul, page 109, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`Paul believed that Jesus chose him to be a preacher and teacher. Why do we need to know who we are and what God chose us to do for Him?`

`For a short time, Paul wanted to give up his work in Corinth and leave the city. What made him change his mind and stay in Corinth?`

`The church members at Corinth loved the things of this life too much. We also have the same problem today. How can we be part of this life (John 17:11, 15) and not let the things of this life cause us to turn away from God (1 John 2:16)?`