---
title:  Here I Am. Send Me!
date:   11/05/2025
---

When Isaiah saw God’s throne in a dream, he was frightened. He said “ ‘Oh, no! I will be destroyed. I am not pure [clean] enough to speak to God, and I live among people who are not pure enough to speak to him. But I have seen the King, the Lord All-Powerful’ ” (Isaiah 6:5, ERV). God’s light is bright enough to show us all our sins and to help us understand that we are lost. For sure, we would feel the same if we had this dream. But Isaiah is in for a big surprise.

`Read Isaiah 6:6–8. Isaiah knows that sin will destroy us. Sin causes death. But God doesn’t leave us to die. His love brings us closer to Him. What happened during Isaiah’s meeting? Why is that so important?`

An angel took a burning stone from the altar and touched Isaiah’s mouth with it. Then Isaiah was made clean. This altar was the altar of sweet-smelling perfume (Revelation 8:3, 4). The smoke burning from the special perfume on the altar mixed with the prayers of God’s people. The smoke and the prayers went up to God. God forgave Isaiah’s sins. Now he was allowed to stand in front of God. More than that, God commanded Isaiah to show who He was to the people on the earth.

The Hebrew word for angel in Isaiah 6 means “burning one.” Look at Jesus’ words in John 5:35 about John the Baptist and the work he did for God: “ ‘John was like [the same as] a burning and shining lamp. And you were happy to enjoy his light for a while’ ” (ICB). Of course, John was a sinner who needed God’s saving mercy, too. At the same time, John’s work helps us to see Jesus. Jesus is the only One who can give us mercy and save us.

Jesus was perfect. He showed us the Father’s love and glory. The prophet or special messenger who announced Jesus was John. God gave John a job to do that was much the same as one of heaven’s angels. John’s job was to help people get their hearts ready to see Jesus.

`After Isaiah knew that his sin was removed, he said, “ ‘Here I am. Send me!’ ” (Isaiah 6:8, ERV). Jesus’ blood makes us clean and removes our sin. How can this knowledge help us to answer God as Isaiah does?`