---
title:  The Two Angels
date:   12/05/2025
---

After Adam and Eve sinned, God commanded them to leave the Garden of Eden. At the same time, God offered them the hope of a coming Savior (Genesis 3:15). Then God put two angels at the gates of Eden. A bright light shone between the angels. Do you see how this scene with the shining angels helps us remember the ark of God’s promise (Exodus 25:18)? The ark of God’s promise is a symbol for His throne.

`Read about the angels in Genesis 3:21–24. What job did God give to the angels? Why did God give them this job?`

The angels were responsible for keeping sinners from eating fruit from the tree of life (Genesis 3:22). The angels also were a symbol of hope and promise. God promised that one day humans would live in the Garden of Eden again. “The Garden of Eden stayed on the earth long after Adam and Eve were forced to leave it. Sinners were allowed to look at their lost home. But the angels blocked them from entering into the garden again. At this gate, the shining angels showed God’s glory. Adam and his sons came to worship God at these gates, too. They promised to obey the law they broke. When Adam broke this law, humans were forced to leave Eden. . . . When God makes the skies and the earth new again (Revelation 21:1), He will make the Garden of Eden new, too. Then the garden will be more beautiful than the time when God first made it in the beginning.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 62, adapted.

The words in Genesis 3:24 also are interesting. The Bible says that God “put” the angels to the east of Eden. The word “put” comes from the Hebrew word “shakan.” The word for the holy tent where God lived with His people during their time in the desert also comes from the word “shakan” (Exodus 25:9; Numbers 3:26). The word for God’s shining bright glory is “Shekinah.” This word isn’t in the Bible, but it also comes from the Hebrew word “shakan.”

In the Bible, special angels named cherubim are connected with God’s glory (1 Chronicles 13:6; Psalm 80:1; Isaiah 37:16). The angels God put at the gates of the Garden of Eden were cherubim. Cherubim are connected with God’s throne and His holy Name. This information helps us better understand the chapter about God’s throne in Revelation 4. We sing God’s praises because God forgave our sins.