---
title:  Burning Stones of Fire
date:   13/05/2025
---

As we saw yesterday, cherubim were special angels who were connected with God’s throne. We can read about living cherubim (Ezekiel 10:8) or gold symbols of these angels (Exodus 25:18) all through the Old Testament. Often cherubim stand right next to God’s throne. They shine with God’s glory in front of everyone in heaven. Cherubim also are sewn into the curtain in front of the Most Holy Room (Exodus 26:1). In the book of Psalms, God is pictured with cherubim. These angels carry God across the sky. This word picture helps us see God’s control over everything He made (Psalm 18:10). God commanded Moses to put two gold cherubim on the top of the mercy seat on the ark of God’s Promise:
“ ‘The wings of these angels should spread up toward the sky. The angels should cover the Box with their wings and face each other, looking toward the mercy-cover [lid]’ ” (Exodus 25:20, ERV, also read verses 18, 19, ERV).

`Read Ezekiel 1:4–14. What happens in these verses that is much the same as what happens in Isaiah 6:1–6 and in Revelation 4:1–11?`

Ezekiel sees a powerful scene. As he looks up, Ezekiel sees God’s throne above everything.

Do you see how Ezekiel’s dream is much the same as other dreams in the Bible about God’s throne? The living things that Ezekiel sees have the same faces as the living things in John’s dream in Revelation: a lion, an eagle, an ox, and a man.

The living things with four faces aren’t given a name at first. But later, in another dream about God’s throne (Ezekiel 10:1–21), these living things are named “cherubim.” We also see the burning stones from Isaiah’s dream about the angels. The living things have the same faces as the living things in John’s dream.

What does all this information tell us? Whenever we see God’s throne, the cherubim are always there. They are connected in a special way with God’s throne. God made angels and people to show His glory and love.

`Ezekiel saw a picture of God’s shining glory. Compare your glory to God’s. How much do you have? What does your answer tell you about your need for the Good News about Jesus?`