---
title:  God Among His People
date:   14/05/2025
---

A cloud led the Israelites on their way to the Promised Land. God was in the cloud. When the cloud stopped, the Israelites stopped and set up God’s holy tent. Then the 12 tribes of Israel, or family groups, put their tents around the holy tent. Three tribes camped on each of the four sides of the tent. Then God would come down into the Most Holy Room of the tent and live among His people.

**The four most powerful tribes camped on each side of the four sides of the holy tent. Numbers 2 talks about these tribes. Who were they?**

`Numbers 2:3 (East):`

`Numbers 2:10 (South):`

`Numbers 2:18 (West):`

`Numbers 2:25 (North):`

Notice that each of the four most powerful tribes flew its own special flag. The flag showed who they were. The Bible doesn’t say exactly what was on each flag. But Genesis 49 and Deuteronomy 33 give us more information about the different tribes. “Some Jewish thinkers believe that a lion was on the flag for the tribe of Judah. A man’s head or body was on the flag for the tribe of Reuben. An ox was on the flag for the tribe of Ephraim. And an eagle was on the flag for the tribe of Dan. So, then, the four living things or angels that Ezekiel sees in his dream were shown on these flags.”—Carl Friedrich Keil and Franz Delitzsch, Commentary on the Old Testament, volume 1 (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson, 2011), page 660, adapted.

We can compare this information with what the Bible says about the New Jerusalem. When we do, we will see something interesting: there are 12 gates with three gates on all four sides of the city. Each gate is a symbol for a tribe (Revelation 21:12, 13). The information about the camp of Israel and the New Jerusalem helps us to see an interesting idea: God wants to bring all people close to His throne. The book of Revelation teaches us that “I did not see a temple in the city. The Lord God All-Powerful and the Lamb were the city’s temple” (Revelation 21:22, ERV).