---
title:  Lucifer’s Fall
date:   15/05/2025
---

It is hard to believe that Lucifer, now Satan, was the angel who used to be closest to God and His throne. Part of his job was to help show God’s glory to everyone in heaven. But Lucifer was interested in his own glory. Lucifer did not want to give glory to the God who made him. Lucifer felt that he wasn’t getting enough honor and praise.

`Read Ezekiel 28:11–17 and Isaiah 14:12–14. What caused Lucifer to sin? Compare these verses with Revelation 14:1–12. Also compare Lucifer’s fall into sin with the honor that Jesus gives us. How do these ideas help you understand what happens in Revelation 14?`

God removed Lucifer from the holy mountain. Do you see that the saved will stand on Mount Zion with the Lamb of God? Lucifer was in Eden. Humans lived in Eden before they sinned. Lucifer will never live in Eden again. But we will live in Eden because of Jesus (read Revelation 22:1–3).

The following quote from Ellen G. White helps us to understand these ideas more: “God will win. The people that the Lord saves will replace Satan and his angels.”—The Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, May 29, 1900, adapted.

The saved will be in heaven only because of the Good News about Jesus. The Good News is the most important topic in Revelation 4 and 5. The angels sing this song to Jesus: “ ‘You are worthy to take the scroll [rolled up book] and to open its seals [locks], because you were killed, and with your blood sacrifice [offering] you bought people for God from every tribe [family group], language, race [group] of people, and nation [country]’ ” (Revelation 5:9, ERV). This verse shows us the Bible truth about the Good News. Jesus died to save the human family!

Do you also see how the words of the angels’ song are much the same as the words we read in the first angel’s message? God commands us to preach the everlasting Good News to “every nation [country], tribe [family group], language, and race [group] of people” (Revelation 14:6, ERV). Jesus died for every person who is alive now or who lived in the past. Our job is to accept His gift of forgiveness and mercy.

`How can we as a church and as Seventh-day Adventists let people know what Jesus did for them?`