---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   16/05/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Great Controversy Ended,” pages 669–671, 676–678 in The Great Controversy.

Jesus “looks at the people He saved. Jesus made them new. Every heart is filled with His love. Every person shows His glory. Every face shines with the beauty of Jesus, their King. Jesus suffered for them. He sees how His suffering changed them for the better. He is so happy at what He sees! Then Jesus announces in a powerful voice that both the saved and the lost can hear: ‘I have bought the saved with My blood! I suffered for them. I died for them, so that they may live with Me forever.’ The angels of God stand around the throne of God. They wear white clothes. They sing a song of praise around God’s throne: ‘The Lamb who was killed is worthy to receive power, wealth, wisdom and strength, honor, glory, and praise!’ Revelation 5:12 [ICB].”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 671, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Imagine this picture in your mind: You stand in front of God. You know that God sees every sin in your heart, every mistake, every wrong act you’ve done. How do you think God will judge you? What will you earn for all your sins and mistakes? What is fair? What is your only hope? Why must sinners let God make them “right with himself through [because of] their faith in Jesus Christ” (Romans 3:22, ICB)? When God judges us, why must we put on Jesus’ holy life, the same as clothes? In short, why do we need the Good News about Jesus?`

`John the Baptist did the work that angels who shine with God’s glory do. John was the same as a burning and shining lamp. Of course, John was the messenger that God sent before Jesus came to this earth. John’s job was to help people get ready to meet Jesus. In what way do we, as Seventh-day Adventists, have the same job that God gave to John the Baptist? How must we help people get ready for the Second Coming?`