---
title:  The Power of Money
date:   30/12/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
1 John 2:16, 17; Luke 14:26–33; Luke 12:15–21; Deuteronomy 8:10–14. 

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Do not be shaped by this world [a love for the things on this earth]. Instead be changed within by a new way of thinking. Then you will be able to decide what God wants for you. And you will be able to know what is good and pleasing to God and what is perfect” (Romans 12:2, ICB). 

THE BIBLE warns God’s people not to “be shaped by this world [a love for the things on this earth]” (Romans 12:2, ICB). But our desire for riches is strong. All too often our desire for money leads us to do wrong. We are tricked by the things we think money will bring us. Then we desire more than we should have.This desire is not sensible.But very few people, rich or poor, say no to their desire for riches. Sadly, this group includes Christians, too. 

Nothing is wrong with being rich. Or working hard to provide for yourself and for your loved ones. But what happens when chasing after money becomes the biggest reason for living your life? Then you have become “shaped by this world [a love for the things on this earth]” (Romans 12:2, ICB). 

Satan makes us think that the good life can be found only in money. But money is a mask that Satan hides behind to trick us into becoming loyal to him. The love for money and chasing after riches are two of Satan’s favorite weapons against Christians. After all, who does not enjoy what money can buy here and now in this life? But in the end, money cannot fill our deepest needs. Only Jesus can. 