---
title:  The God of this Earth
date:   31/12/2017
---

Money has become the god of this earth. What is the name of the religion that worships the god of money? The answer is materialism. Materialism is the love for riches and owning things. These riches and belongings become more important and valuable to a person than spiritual truths. Belongings have value. But their value should not control us or our decisions. The Bible warns us, “He who loves money will never have enough money to make him happy. It is the same for the one who loves to get many things” (Ecclesiastes 5:10, NLV). That is the problem with wanting the things of this life. Whatever we get never will be enough. We work harder and harder for more and more of what never can make us happy. What a trap! 

`Read 1 John 2:16, 17. What do these verses tell us about what really matters?` 

`Read what Jesus says in Luke 14:26–33. As we see in these verses, what does it cost us to follow Jesus?` 

Jesus’ words are a warning to us. Those who love money and owning things more than anything else should count how much their love for things will cost them in this life and in the next. “What does a man have if he gets all the world [riches] and loses his own soul?” (Mark 8:36, NLV). 

“Christ came to this earth at a time when humans seemed to be quickly on their way to becoming the worst they ever could be. The faith and teachings that at one time led people and made families strong had grown weak. Life was fake. . . . Everywhere, all religions on the earth were losing their power over people. People were angry with the false stories and lies these religions taught. So, they ran after riches instead. They did not think about the future life in heaven at all. Instead, they lived only for the here and now.”—Ellen G. White, Education, pages 74, 75, adapted. 

People turning away from religion and chasing after riches instead? These words seem to be talking about life on this earth today, right? 

`Everyone likes to own things. But how can we know for sure that the things we own do not control us? Who alone should own us? How can we be sure that He does?`