---
title:  Filling the barns
date:   01/01/2018
---

Read Luke 12:15–21. What message is found here for us in these verses? How might the important truth found here be a useful rule for someone who is not rich to follow? 

Rich or poor, we need to be careful about our desire to own things. Our desire to own things can take our minds off what is really important. Instead, the desire to own things can cause us to care only about owning stuff that does not last. We must allow nothing to cause us to lose our gift of everlasting life. Nothing! 

True, we never would bow down to a statue of gold and silver and worship it. But we could be in danger of worshiping gold and silver in another form. 

The picture story of the rich fool in Luke 12:15–21 is very useful for so many people today. They seem to care only about getting as much stuff and owning as many belongings as possible. That is why businesses have made an art form out of selling their things worldwide. Their whole plan for selling their goods is built on making us think that we cannot be happy or satisfied until we own the things they sell. Here is what many businesses do with big success. First, they make something. Then they make us think that we need the thing they make and that we cannot live without it. Then they sell it to us. And the truth is that their plan works! Even Christians are not safe from this trick that businesses use to get us to buy their stuff. As Christians, we do not place our hopes on this life. But we can be fooled just as easily as everyone else into thinking or feeling we must buy what these companies sell. 

`Read Deuteronomy 8:10–14. As shown in these verses, how can any church member be in danger from the threat warned about here?` 

`What examples can you find in the Bible or in real life that show how gathering riches makes people more holy? Or what verse or story can you find that explains how riches cause people to love God more and desire spiritual things more? None, right? But if you can find an example, please share it with the class!` 