---
title:  The danger of wanting too much
date:   02/01/2018
---

Advertisements can be very powerful. Businesses pay billions to put pictures of the things they sell in front of our eyes. These companies almost always hire attractive people to help sell their things. We look at their ads and see ourselves owning the things they sell. We also see ourselves living in the same way as the people in the ads. 

These ads are very powerful because companies also put into the ads many beautiful pictures that try to control the body’s five senses. The body’s five senses are: touch, taste, smell, sight, and hearing. Now, sometimes ads include beautiful people and pictures in a very smart and sneaky way. These ads make you want to taste or touch the things they sell. But you never notice how hard these businesses work to make you want their things. Other times, ads make no secret about using beautiful things to make you want the things they sell. This plan to control our five senses is the most powerful secret used in ads. But their desire to control our senses acts as a poison to Christians who are fighting against the dangers of wanting too much. Sadly enough, that group of Christians includes most of us. 

`As shown in Matthew 6:22–24, the “eye” is a word picture. What does the “eye” mean? What should we as Christians do about the sneaky ads all around us that cause us to waste money on things we do not need?` 

As we said, advertisements often connect the things a business is selling to the five senses of the body. This plan can be a very powerful tool. Businesses sell their things by making buyers excited about what they sell. The experience theysell is all make-believe.But it works.The experience often seems to have a strange spiritual power that takes people to “a special place” outside this life. But that experience is a false religion. Why? Because it is not real. It offers no knowledge and no spiritual truth. It seems so attractive that many people believeit.Wewantthisexperience,and wefeelweneedit.So, why not get it? God alone knows the large amounts of money spent, and the amounts that continue to be spent, on things that businesses made us think we needed. 

`How are we in danger of doing what our “desires controlled by sin” (Galatians 5:16, NIrV) want us to do?`