---
title:  Love for self
date:   03/01/2018
---

**“I ask each one of you not to think more of himself than he should think. Instead, think in the right way toward yourself by the faith God has given you” (Romans 12:3, NLV).** 

God said to Lucifer: “ ‘ “You became too proud because of your beauty. You ruined your wisdom because of your greatness. I threw you down to the ground” ’ ” (Ezekiel 28:17, ICB). Lucifer lied to himself about being greater than he really was. He bragged, “ ‘ “I will make myself like [the same as] the Most High [God]” ’ ” (Isaiah 14:14, NLV). His bragging shows how eager he was to take glory that belonged to God alone. Two sins of Lucifer’s heart were his lies and his eager desire to get power and glory. 

These verses about Lucifer should tell us that, in many ways, the first sin is named narcissism. Narcissism means “loving and admiring yourself and especially [paying special attention to] your appearance too much.” Believing our own lies shows that we admire ourselves too much. 

Sadly, many people are guilty of admiring themselves too much. Nebuchadnezzar is one example. He thought he was greater than he was (Daniel 4:30). Another example was the Pharisees (Luke 18:11, 12). The Pharisees were members of a strict religious group in New Testament times. They followed Jewish laws and teachings very carefully. The Pharisees were fooled into believing that they were better than others. Riches also can fool us into believing this lie. So, we must be careful. 

`What danger does Paul warn us about in 1 Timothy 6:10?` 

Paul warns Timothy to watch out for a group of bad people (2 Timothy 3:1–5). This group includes those who “love money” (2 Timothy 3:2, NIrV). A love for money can cause people to feel too sure of themselves. It can lead to a feeling of self-love. Most people want to be rich, but few people ever do become rich. So, it is easy for the few people who are rich to feel proud. 

`Read Philippians 2:3. How does this verse help us understand why the love for money and belongings does not fit with how a Christian should behave?`