---
title:  Why the love for money fails us in the end
date:   04/01/2018
---

There are many people who love God. What they say, feel, and do show who God is. No amount of riches or belongings ever could take God’s place in their lives. 

`Read Deuteronomy 7:6; 1 Peter 2:9; John 15:5; and Galatians 2:20. As we see in these verses, what does it mean to belong to God or to be His special treasure? Where do we find the true meaning of who we really are?` 

God says, “ ‘I am the Vine and you are the branches. Get your life from Me. . . . You can do nothing without Me’ ” (John 15:5, NLV). Our connection to God joins us to Him. We can trust Him to give us life. “All true obedience comes from the heart.Christ obeyedfromthe heart.We must giveHim permission to closely connect Himself with our thoughts and plans. In this way, He will bring our hearts and minds into agreement with His plan for our lives. He will help us to obey it. So then, obeying Him will be the same as carrying out our own desires.” —Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 668, adapted. 

Obedience is the true riches Jesus offers us. But what does the love of money offer us? Money tells us that our worth comes from the things we own. So then, our feelings of worth are connected to the things we own and the things we can buy. James warns us about the dangers of thinking this way: “Your gold and silver will rust, and rust will be a proof that you were wrong. It will eat your bodies like [in the same way that] fire [will].You saved your treasure for the last days” (James 5:3, ICB). In this verse, “saved your treasure” means to collect and gather many things. Many people feel good about themselves because of how much treasure they have. What they believe about themselves and their worth comes from the things they own (Luke 12:19–21). 

A love for money causes us to be confused about who we are. For many of us, who we are becomes mixed together with what we own. Our belongings become our god (Matthew 6:19–21).As one person said, “I am nothing without my things.” How sad to feel that we can know who we are only by what we own. What a foolish way to live life! Do we belong to God or to our things? We cannot belong to both. We must choose. 

`How much is your understanding of who you are connected to the things you own?`