---
title:  Additional thought
date:   05/01/2018
---

“The enemy [Satan] is buying souls today very cheap. ‘You have sold yourselves for nothing’ [Isaiah 52:3, NKJV] is the wording used in the Bible. Indeed, one person is selling his soul for applause. Another person sells his soul for money. One person sells his soul to satisfy his evil desires. Another person sells his soul for the fun things in this life. These sales are made daily. Satan is making bids for the souls Jesus already purchased with His blood. God paid a very great price to set them free from the slavery of sin. But Satan is buying them up cheap.”—Ellen  G. White, Testimonies [Messages] for the Church, volume 5, page 133, adapted. 

“Buying souls” is Satan’s number one plan. Satan tricks humans into selling their souls to him. He promises them riches, goods, and the power that owning them brings. Satan promises these treasures in exchange for their souls. Riches and our desire for them cannot talk. But they know every language. The desire to have riches gives pleasure to both rich and poor. It satisfies them and causes them to say, “I have all I need now in this life. Why worry about the next life?” In this way, the desire for riches spoils the mind. It causes people to trust in what they own instead of trusting in God. Zechariah 4:6 tells us how to heal from the sickness of wanting too much: “ ‘ “Your help will not come from your own strength and power. No, your help will come from my Spirit.” This is what the LORD 

All-Powerful says’ ” (ERV). The power of the Holy Spirit is stronger than the love for riches. So, we must give ourselves to God. We must take hold of His power to help us not let the love for riches rule our lives. 

**Discussion questions**: 

`1 How can we, rich or poor, get trapped by some of the dangers of wanting riches?` 

`2 Money and belongings are important.They do have an important place in our lives. Those who say differently are not being completely honest. So, how can we make sure we understand and follow the correct view about money taught in the Bible?` 

`3 Read carefully what Jesus says to us about riches in Matthew 6:19–21. How are His words a powerful way to protect ourselves from the dangers of a love for money and wanting too much of it?` 