---
title:  Living by the Spirit
date:   09/09/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Galatians 5:16–25; Deuteronomy 13:4, 5; Romans 7:14–24; Jeremiah 7:9; Hosea 4:2; Matthew 22:35–40.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “So I say, live by the Holy Spirit’s power. Then you will not do what your desires controlled by sin want you to do” (Galatians 5:16, NIrV).

Robert Robinson wrote the hymn “Come, Thou Fount of Every Blessing.” It is one of the best-loved hymns of all time. But Robinson was not always a man of faith. His father’s death left him angry. He started drinking and living a life of sin. But one day he heard a sermon by the famous preacher George Whitefield. And then Robinson gave his life to God. He became a Methodist preacher. And he wrote that hymn with these lines, “Prone [likely to do something] to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love.”

Later, someone changed Robinson’s song. This person was uncomfortable with the part about the Christian’s heart wandering away from God. So, the words were changed to “Prone to worship, Lord, I feel it. Prone to love the God I serve.”

But Robinson’s words show the truth about the Christian struggle. As believers, we have two sides: the flesh and the Spirit. These two sides war with each other. Our sinful side will always be “prone” to wander from God. But we must be willing to surrender to His Spirit. Then we will no longer be slaves to the desires of our flesh. This message is at the heart of the verses for this week.