---
title:  Walking in the Spirit
date:   10/09/2017
---

_Galatians 5:16_

`Read Galatians 5:16. In this verse, Paul uses the word picture of “walk[ing]” (NIV). What is the relationship between “walking” and a life of faith? (Read also Deuteronomy 13:4, 5; Romans 13:13; Ephesians 4:1, 17; and Colossians 1:10.)`

“Walking” is a word picture taken from the Old Testament. It explains the way a person should behave. Often, Paul makes use of this word picture in his letters. He uses it to explain the way a Christian should live. Paul’s use of this word picture most likely points to the name that Christians first were known by. The first followers of Jesus were known simply as the followers of “the Way” (John 14:6; Acts 22:4; Acts 24:14).This name shows that Christianity was not only a set of teachings about Jesus. It was also a “way” of life to be “walked” or followed.

`Read what Exodus 16:4; Leviticus 18:4; and Jeremiah 44:23 say about the word picture of “walk[ing]” (NET) or “follow[ing]” (NIrV). Now read what Paul says about “walk[ing]” (NKJV) or “living” (NIrV) in Galatians 5:16 and in Romans 8:4. How is Paul’s word picture about walking different from the Old Testament’s?`

In the Old Testament, living a godly life was not described only by the word “walking.” Instead, it was described by the wording “walking in the law.” Halakhah is the word Jews use to mean the rules found in both the law and in the traditions of the rabbis that were handed down to them. Halakhah usually is translated to mean “the Jewish law.” But the word really comes from the Hebrew word for “to walk.” And it means “the way of going.”

Paul’s words about “walking in the Spirit” are not against the law or against obeying the law. What Paul is against is the wrong way that the law is being used. The true obedience that God wants from us cannot be earned through obeying the law. It can be gained only by a change of heart. This change is brought about by the Holy Spirit (Galatians 5:18).

`In what way have you “walked in the Spirit”? How is it done? What things are you doing in your life that make this walk harder? What can you do to change?`