---
title:  The christian’s war
date:   11/09/2017
---

_Galatians 5:17_

`“The desires controlled by sin do not want what the Spirit delights in. And the Spirit does not want what the desires controlled by sin delight in. The two are at war with each other. [That is] why you are not supposed to do whatever you want” (Galatians 5:17, NIrV; read also Romans 7:14–24). How have you experienced the harsh and painful truth of these words in your own life?`

The struggle that Paul talks about in Galatians 5:17 is the inner tug-of-war that takes place inside each Christian. Humans are born fallen. So, they naturally want to give in to the desires of the flesh (Romans 8:7). It is only when they are born again by the Holy Spirit that the real spiritual battle begins to take place. This teaching does not mean that non-Christians never struggle between right and wrong. They do. But the Christian has two sides within him or her: the flesh and the Spirit. And these two sides are at war.

Throughout history, Christians have wished to be set free from this struggle. Some have tried to end the battle by withdrawing from society. Others have claimed that their fallen and sinful condition as humans could be removed completely by a miracle of God. Both groups are wrong in their thinking. By the Spirit’s power we certainly can overcome the sinful desires of our flesh. But running away from society does not help. Why? Because we take the struggle with us wherever we go. And we will continue to do so until death or the Second Coming.

Clearly, we have two sides to us as believers. We were born in human flesh, and we are born again by the Spirit. So, we are on both sides of the battle at once! The spiritual side of us wants what is spiritual. It hates the flesh. But our flesh wants to do sinful things. It is against what is spiritual. The new believer is too weak to fight against the flesh in his or her own strength. So, the only way we can conquer the flesh is to choose each day to side with the Spirit against our sinful selves. That is why Paul is so eager for us to choose to walk in the Spirit.

`Think about the battle between your two sides. What would you say to a Christian who is struggling to accept this idea of a never-ending battle with self?`