---
title:  The works of the flesh
date:   12/09/2017
---

_Galatians 5:19–21_

First, Paul introduces the idea of the war between the flesh and the Spirit going on inside of each Christian. Now, in Galatians 5:18–26, Paul tells us more about the differences between these two sides within us. He makes a list of bad habits and of good ones. Good habits or good things that we do are also known as virtues. Bad habits are called vices.

`Read the lists of vices and virtues in the following verses: Jeremiah 7:9; Hosea 4:2; Mark 7:21; 1 Timothy 3:2, 3; 1 Peter 4:3; and Revelation 21:8. In what ways are these lists the same as Paul’s lists in Galatians 5:19–24? How are they different?`

Paul knew very well about the lists of vices and virtues found in the Bible. But there are important differences found in his two lists in Galatians. First, Paul names the list of vices the “works of the flesh.” He calls the list of virtues the “fruit of the Spirit.” This difference in names is important. James D. G. Dunn explains why: “The flesh wants to have its own way. But the Spirit makes us more concerned for others. The list of vices shows the bad things people do to get what they want. The list of virtues shows how God changes us. It shows that a true spiritual change is at the heart of doing what is right.”—Adapted, The Epistle [Letter] to the Galatians, page 308.

The life lived in the flesh brings only division and trials. But the life lived in the Spirit produces one fruit of the Spirit. This one fruit is shown in the nine virtues Paul lists. These nine virtues join Christians together in belief.

Some people claim that what a Christian believes about God really does not matter as long as he or she is a good person. But nothing could be further from the truth. Paul’s list of vices shows that wrong views about God lead to twisted ideas about relationships, religion, and the way that we should behave in society. Such wrong ideas lead to the breakdown of human relationships. And they also can lead to the loss of eternal life (Galatians 5:21).

`Read again through Paul’s list of “works of the flesh.” In what ways does each vice break one or more of the Ten Commandments?`