---
title:  The fruit of the Spirit
date:   13/09/2017
---

_Galatians 5:22, 23_

`“But the fruit the Holy Spirit produces is love, joy and peace. It is being patient, kind and good. It is being faithful and gentle and having control of oneself. There is no law against things of that kind” (Galatians 5:22, 23, NIrV). In what ways does obeying the Ten Commandments show the fruit of the Spirit as described in these verses? (Read also Matthew 5:21, 22, 27, 28 and Matthew 22:35–40.)`

The Ten Commandments never were meant to take the place of love. Instead, they help guide us in how we are to show love to God and to others. Love is not at war with the law. Love for God and love for our neighbor do not do away with the Ten Commandments. Saying so would be as foolish as saying that love for nature destroys the law of gravity!

Paul describes the fruit of the Spirit in a list of nine beautiful virtues. Bible thinkers believe these nine virtues are grouped together in smaller bunches of three. Some think the number three points to the Godhead. The Godhead is made up of the Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Others think the number three points to the ways that we should relate to God, our neighbor, and ourselves. Others see the list as a description of Jesus. Each of these ideas is good. But the greatest point to keep in mind is how much importance Paul places on love in the Christian life.

The fact that Paul lists love as the first of the nine virtues is no accident. In Galatians 5:6, 13, Paul shows the importance of love in the Christian life. And he includes love in his lists of virtues elsewhere (2 Corinthians 6:6; 1 Timothy 4:12; 1 Timothy 6:11; 2 Timothy 2:22). All the virtues Paul includes in his lists also appear in non-Christians’ lists. All, that is, but one. And that one virtue is love. It is found only in Christians’ lists. So, we can see how special love is. It is not just another virtue.It is the greatest virtue of all.And it is the key to having all other virtues. Love is the most important fruit of the Spirit (1 Corinthians 13:13; Romans 5:5). Sometimes it can be hard to show love. But love should shape the life and thoughts and feelings of every Christian (John 13:34, 35) at all times and in all places.

`How much dying to self is involved in loving others and God? Can you love without dying to self? What does Jesus teach about loving and saying no to self?`