---
title:  The way to victory
date:   14/09/2017
---

_Galatians 5:16–26_

The battle between the flesh and the Spirit rages in every believer’s heart. But the Christian life does not have to be controlled by defeat, failure, and sin.

`Read Galatians 5:16–26.What do these verses say will help us live a life of victory over the flesh?`

Galatians 5:16–26 contains five important verbs. These verbs show the type of life the Spirit rules over. The first verb is “walk” (Galatians 5:16, NIV). The believer needs to “walk” in the Spirit. In fact, Paul commands us to do so. The word “walk” comes from the Greek verb peripateo. It means “to walk around or to follow.” The form of the verb “to walk” that Paul uses is in the present tense. It shows that Paul does not mean a walk taken only once in a while. Instead, the walk he is talking about is a daily experience. Indeed, walking in the Spirit is a choice we must make every day. The second important verb is “to be led” (Galatians 5:18, NIV). This verb shows that we also need to let the Spirit lead us where we should go. (Read also Romans 8:14; 1 Corinthians 2:2.) It is not our job to lead, but to follow.

The next two important verbs appear in Galatians 5:25. The first is “to live” (zao in the Greek). By “live,” Paul points to the new birth in Christ. This birth must be seen in the life of every believer. The new-birth experience must take place every day. We live by the Spirit. So, we also need “to walk” by the Spirit. The word translated as “walk” in this verse is different from the word for “walk” in Galatians 5:16. Here, the word is stoicheo. It is a military word. It means “to form up in a line,” “to stay in step,” or “to obey or agree with something.” The idea that Paul wants to get across is that the Spirit should direct our lives every day.

The verb Paul uses in Galatians 5:24 is “nailed . . . to [the] cross” (NIrV). This idea may seem horrible and even gruesome. But we must choose to put to death the desires of the flesh. Then we can follow the Spirit. Of course, this idea is only a word picture. Nailing our flesh to the cross means feeding our spiritual lives and starving the desires of the flesh.

`What victories are you promised in Christ? What changes and choices must you make to have them?`