---
title:  Additional thought
date:   15/09/2017
---

“Satan’s attacks will grow worse as we near the close of history. He will try to cause Christians to believe things that are not true. He will try to trap them in sin. He will attack more often. Those who turn away from light and truth will become hard-hearted and closed off to the Spirit’s leading. They will become more bitter toward those who love God and obey His commandments.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary [Explanation], volume 6, page 1111.

“The Holy Spirit causes Christ to live in the soul. We do not see Christ now, nor speak to Him face-to-face. But the Spirit is just as near to us in one place as another. The Spirit works in and through everyone who receives Christ. Those who receive the Spirit within them will show the fruits of the Spirit. The fruits of the Spirit include love, joy, peace, being patient, gentleness, goodness, and faith.”—Adapted, Ellen G. White Comments, The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 6, page 1112.

**Discussion questions**

`1. What does it mean to nail the desires of the flesh to the cross? How do we do it? How often must we do it? Why would Paul use such a strong word picture? What does nailing the desires of the flesh to the cross say about how hard the battle against self is?`

`2. Paul says we are saved by faith, not by works. But he also says those who do the works of the flesh will not be in the kingdom of God.At first, these two statements may seem to disagree. But why do they support each other instead?`

`3. What is the biggest struggle you face in your Christian walk? Why must we always remember that our salvation depends all upon what Jesus has done?`

**Summary**: There is a war going on between the desires of the flesh and the desires of the Spirit. It is being fought out in the life of every believer. But the Christian life does not have to be a life of failure. Christ won the victory over sin and death. So the Christian life can be a life over which the Spirit rules. And the Spirit can bring into the Christian life a daily gift of God’s grace. Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. This gift helps us to have the victory over the desires of the flesh.