---
title:  Further Thought
date:  05/09/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Tabernacle and Its Services,” pp. 343–353, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

The tabernacle was a special place where atonement was ac­complished for the confessed sins of God’s people. It was the place where, indeed, the entire plan of salvation had been revealed, and in some detail, too, to the children of Israel while they were in the wilderness. Justification, sanctification, and judgment were all taught there. Every animal sacrifice pointed to the death of Jesus, the forgiveness of sins, and, eventually, the blotting out of sins. And, too, along with the sacrifices was the presence of God’s law, the standard of righteousness.

“The law of God, enshrined within the ark, was the great rule of righteousness and judgment. That law pronounced death upon the transgres­sor; but above the law was the mercy seat, upon which the presence of God was revealed, and from which, by virtue of the atonement, pardon was granted to the repentant sinner. Thus in the work of Christ for our redemption, symbolized by the sanctuary service, ‘mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other.’ Psalm 85:10.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 349.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How many times have you said, “All that the Lord tells me to do, I will do”? How successful were you in your efforts?`

`At the end of Moses’ 40-day stay with the Lord on Mount Sinai, God emphasized that the Israelites must observe His Sabbath, because it would be a sign between God and them that it was the Lord who would make them holy. What role do holiness and sanctification play in keeping the Sabbath?`

`The Lord wanted them to make a sanctuary so that “I may dwell among them.” How fascinating that this place was the center of salvation for Israel. It was here—in this sanctuary, where God dwelt among His people—that the plan of salvation was wrought out in types and shadows. What does this tell us about our total dependence upon God for salvation?`

`What does it mean that through the blood all their sins were brought to the sanctuary, God’s house? How does this amazing truth reflect, even if dimly, what Jesus did on the cross for us and what He is doing for us now in the heavenly sanctuary?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Two Hands for God,” Conflict and Courage, March 31, p. 96.\
“The Gift of God to You,” The Faith I Live By, February 16, p. 53.\