---
title:  Ignoring Jesus’ Principles
date:   30/12/2023
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Luke 9:43–56**

**Ignoring Jesus’ Principles**

The Edict of Milan in A.D. 313 brought an end to 150 years of sporadic and intense periods of Christian persecution at the hands of the Roman Empire. Prior to this decree, believers who refused to declare that Caesar was a god and swear loyalty to him as such had been hunted, fined, imprisoned, fed to lions, crucified, burned alive, and suffered many other atrocities. Christians hid in caves and fled to remote regions to save their lives and protect their families. Houses of worship were razed to the ground and property was confiscated. Scriptures, which were slowly and painfully copied by hand, were collected and burned. Weary Christians welcomed the Edict of Milan, which was the first proclamation guaranteeing religious liberty to every citizen of the Roman Empire.

If only the professed followers of Jesus Christ had remained content with their standing and true to the noble principles of this decree, the world may have been spared the following millennia of religious tyranny. Who could have guessed that in the span of a few years, professed Christians would be clamoring for political control and domination over other religions and even over fellow Christians who held opposing beliefs? During the reign of the Roman emperor Constantine (A.D. 306–337), Christian churches formed alliances with the emperor that granted them large government favors. The church as a whole became corrupt with political and financial ambitions that directly opposed Jesus’ principles. If the church had remained true to Christ’s teachings and spirit it would have prevented the unholy mixture of church and state that resulted in the religious tyranny of the Middle Ages.

In just a few centuries, the church had ironically become an excellent example of what Jesus said not to be. It had made a habit and a business of doing exactly what Jesus instructed us to avoid doing. In the sixteenth century, the Protestant Reformation began to slowly rediscover basics of religious liberty. Today, it’s central to the mission of the church, to know and promote the original principles that Jesus established.

### inScribe

Write out Luke 9:43–56 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 54–56. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._