---
title:  The Spirit of the Disciples
date:   31/12/2023
---

### inGest

Adventists have long believed that “religious liberty includes the human right to have or adopt the religion of one’s choice, to change religious belief according to conscience, to manifest one’s religion individually or in community with fellow believers, in worship, observance, practice, witness, and teaching, subject to respect for the equivalent rights of others” (_Seventh-day Adventist Church Manual_ [2015], 95). Jesus Christ is the perfect example of One who had the power to compel and control and yet always honored every individual’s choice of whether or not to believe, to profess, to follow. Jesus’ respect for individual rights highly contrasted His disciples’ impulse to force submission.

Jesus’ disciples were deeply entrenched in their culture. It was an age of intense political strife and national bigotry. Much like today, various factions competed for power and resources. This was especially true when Rome ruled Israel, evidenced by the occasional rebel group that formed to gain freedom and restore Israel’s national honor. Restlessness and revolution stirred the masses in Christ’s time, affecting the disciples to the degree that James and John asked if Jesus wanted them to call fire down from heaven to destroy the Samaritan people after they failed to give Him a warm welcome (Luke 9:54).

The disciples coated their hostility with a veneer of spirituality and supported it with a reference to the Old Testament. In no area is the human heart more deceptive than when justifying the spirit of cruelty and retaliation. If only the disciples could see themselves as Jesus saw them! Jesus warned them, “You do not know what manner of spirit you are of” (v. 55).

Jesus’ answer to their violent request highlighted the boundaries He would never cross. Not once in His ministry did He try to intimidate, threaten, or force people to follow Him or reform their ways, for His mission in no way included destruction of life or property (v. 56). Unfortunately, this attribute has often been forgotten in the centuries since Christ lived. If the church leaders and professed Christians in every age had always renounced the misguided spirit of the disciples and embraced Christ’s spirit, church history never would have included the acts of persecution and tyranny committed in the name of religion.

Jesus clearly told us how we should react when a house or town does not receive us warmly: “And whoever will not receive you nor hear your words, when you depart from that house or city, shake off the dust from your feet” (Matt. 10:14). When we have experienced rejection, there is no need to call down fire from heaven or launch an attack—whether physical or verbal. Jesus instructs us to simply shake the dust from our feet and move on. That’s all.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`What ideas or habits did the disciples have to unlearn to embrace Jesus’ spirit?`

`What can we learn from Jesus’ example in similar situations about how to relate to church members or pastors who have the wrong spirit?`