---
title:  What About Elijah?
date:   01/01/2024
---

### inTerpret

If the disciples were so wrong in asking for heavenly fire to consume the Samaritans, why did the prophet Elijah call fire down from heaven in 2 Kings 1:1–16? The context of the stories is entirely different: Elijah prayed for fire to vindicate God’s name, but the disciples were angry that the people did not receive them well. Also, in the Old Testament system of theocracy, God at times worked in His role as judge and executioner through divinely appointed people. While 2 Kings 1 doesn’t state whether God directed Elijah to call fire down on the first two emissaries from the king, it does specify that Elijah was instructed to spare the third emissary (v. 15). The third emissary was saved by God’s direct intervention, showing that even in moments of judgment, God still extends mercy wherever He can.

The Old Testament gives many accounts of God acting in judgment. Genesis recounts how He destroyed the world by a flood (8:21–23) and destroyed the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah with fire (19:28). Both stories are an example of God’s final judgment coming upon the whole world (Rev. 20:9). God is the final Judge; He will have the last word in every person’s case, which is the one thing that comforts people who have suffered unfair judgments in earthly courts and human relationships. God’s court will reverse the erroneous decisions of the earthly courts. God is both just and merciful and He will be worshiped by all creation when saints and angels alike agree that every one of God’s judgments are fair and right (Rev. 15:2–4; 19:1–4).

While in the Old Testament God at times exercised His role as judge through prophets such as Elijah, in the New Testament, Jesus completely removed the responsibility of destruction from the church. This explains why God has never again used His church as an instrument of ruin, though the New Testament does contain stories of God’s direct judgments, such as the deaths of Ananias and Sapphira (Acts 5:1–11). Jesus’ rebuke against James and John for wanting to bring down fire from heaven applies to all Christians throughout time. Any follower of Christ who claims to be judge stands under the same Divine rebuke.

Jesus will come as Judge and Executioner when He returns, doing the work of destruction through the angels (Matt. 13:41, 42), but when He came the first time as a human example to every leader in the church, His mission never included extinguishing human life. The most physical force Jesus ever used was when He overturned tables in the sanctuary (Mark 11). He overturned tables, not families or people’s lives. Jesus was gentle. He never once bruised or hurt a person (Matt. 12:20). The only life Jesus took was that of the fig tree (Mark 11:20, 21), and that was an example of a nation doomed by Divine judgment.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why does God destroy? How do we reconcile this part of His nature with His loving, merciful side?`