---
title:  The Ultimate Demonstration
date:   03/01/2024
---

### inVite

Christ’s spirit was most vividly demonstrated through His choice to submit to the cruelty of the cross. He had repeatedly warned the disciples of what was coming, but Jesus’ path of submission was so foreign to the disciples that they were afraid to ask any questions about it (Luke 9:44, 45). The disciples were still bickering among themselves over who would achieve the most power and control (vv. 46–48). The disciples were grasping for exactly what Jesus was giving up. They were striving for the power connected with kingship while Jesus was making Himself the very lowest of servants. Jesus’ spirit is the complete opposite of this world’s spirit. The kingdom of heaven operates on principles that oppose the principles of this world. Jesus was inviting His disciples to let go of their ambitions and join Him on His journey of self-denial.

In response to their bickering, Jesus drew the disciples’ attention to a nearby child, for children were considered the least consequential people around. He demonstrated that if they would minister to the needs of children, they would align with His spirit and mission, “for he who is least among you all will be great” (v. 48). All of this appeared backward to the proud hearts of the disciples, who after years of ministry with Jesus still had much to learn about His spirit.

After Jesus ascended to heaven, the church was entrusted with the mission of revealing His spirit to the world. However, the world will never see Christ through us if we aren’t emptied of self and haven’t made room for Him to shine through. It is the spirit of Christ alone that can equip the church to meet a crisis properly and unify the church when the world is divided. Paul admonishes us to “Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus, who, being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made Himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant, and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross” (Phil. 2:5–8). Only when we embrace Jesus’ humble spirit and follow His example of emptying self will we enjoy unity between believers (vv. 2, 3). If every person embraced Christ’s the spirit by looking out “not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others” (v. 4), there would never be another violation of religious liberty. The spirit of Christ is the ultimate solution to every form of tyranny and oppression.

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`What are some of the characteristics of the spirit of Christ? What are some ways we can embrace it in everyday life?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`