---
title:  Further Thought
date:   05/01/2018
---

“The enemy is buying souls today very cheap. ‘Ye have sold yourselves for nought,’ is the language of Scripture. One is selling his soul for the world’s applause, another for money; one to gratify base passions, another for worldly amusement. Such bargains are made daily. Satan is bidding for the purchase of Christ’s blood and buying them cheap, notwithstanding the infinite price which has been paid to ransom them.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 133. 

Buying souls through materialism is the goal of Satan, and the superficial trappings appeal to every heart. Materialism cannot speak, but it knows every language. It knows how to provide pleasure and gratification to both the rich and the poor and cause them to say, “I have all that I need here; why worry about anything else?” Thus, materialism corrupts the mind; it causes people to trust in what they own as opposed to trusting in God. However, the antidote is “ ‘not by might nor by power, but by my Spirit,’ says the Lord Almighty” (Zech. 4:6, NIV). Materialism cannot withstand the control of the Holy Spirit when we give ourselves over to God and determine by His grace not to let materialism rule our lives.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What are ways in which, even if we are poor or without many material goods, we still can be swept up in some of the dangers we looked at this week?`

`Some people say, “I don’t care about money. Money doesn’t mean anything to me.” (Often, the ones who say this have plenty of money anyway.) Why, in most cases, is that simply not true? Finances are important; they do have a role in our lives. The question is: How can we keep money and our need for money in the right biblical perspective?`

`“ ‘Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal; but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also’ ” (Matt. 6:19–21, NKJV). Read carefully what Jesus says to us here. How is what He is telling us a powerful way to protect ourselves from the dangers of materialism?`