---
title:  The Quarrel
date:   07/10/2017
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Hebrews 8:6; Matthew 19:17; Revelation 12:17; Leviticus 23; Acts 15:1–29.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “The Law was given through [by]  Moses, but loving-favor and truth came through [by] Jesus Christ” (John 1:17, NLV).

_The first christian churches_ had many members who were Jews. These Jewish believers never thought for a minute that they were turning away from the Jewish faith when they accepted Jesus. These Jewish believers did not think they were turning away from the special promises God made to His people. They were right about that. They did not wonder if Jews should become Christians first before accepting Jesus. Instead, the question for many Jewish believers was: Did non-Jews need to become Jews before they could accept Christ?

Later, the Jews got a firm answer from the Jerusalem Group. The Jerusalem Group made big decisions for the whole church. The Group decided not to force non-Jews to follow certain rules. And the Group decided not to force non-Jews to become Jews before joining the church.

But some Jewish teachers continued to cause trouble. They said that non-Jewish believers should obey Jewish rules and laws. One of these laws was circumcision. Circumcision is the act of cutting off the extra skin at the end of the male sex organ. The Jewish teachers felt that non-Jewish believers should live by these Jewish rules and laws. Then non-Jews could become part of Israel. So, how did the church solve this awful problem?