---
title:  A Better Promise
date:   08/10/2017
---

_Hebrews 8:6_

`Read Hebrews 8:6. What are the “better promises” this verse talks about?`

What is the biggest difference between the religion of the Old Testament and the religion of the New? Maybe it is that the New Testament shows us the coming of Jesus. God sent Jesus to save sinners. We cannot reject Jesus and then expect to be saved. Our sins can be forgiven only by our belief in Jesus’ death for us on the cross. Then Jesus can cover us with His perfect life. Without this gift from Jesus, we could not stand before God. Instead, we would be found guilty. So, we must believe in Jesus’ death for our sins. We must accept by faith Jesus’ holy life in place of our lives. Then we will be saved. God gives us the gifts of Jesus’ death and holy life. These gifts give us power over sin. Jesus’ death on the cross for sinners and His holy life are part of a teaching that is named Jesus’ righteousness. Righteousness is God’s power to make people right with Himself. Nothing else can save us.

God’s people in Old Testament times looked forward to the coming of the Savior. And God’s people in New Testament times had to answer this question: Would they accept Jesus of Nazareth as their Savior? Jesus was the Messiah. The Messiah was the One God chose to save us from sin. 

`Read Matthew 19:17; Revelation 12:17; Revelation 14:12; and James 2:10, 11. What do these verses tell us about the importance of God’s law in the New Testament?`

God’s law lasts forever. There were laws that explained the use of animals in the Jewish plan of worship. But these laws belonged to the Old Agreement between God and His people. These laws pointed to Jesus, His death, and His work right now for us in heaven. But these laws were no longer needed after Jesus died. Jesus opened a new way to save humans. This new way was built on “better promises.” 

One of Paul’s reasons for writing Romans was to help both Jews and non-Jews to understand this change from the old way to the new. 

`What are your favorite Bible promises? What are you doing that could be standing in the way of having these promises come true in your life?`