---
title:  Jewish laws and rules
date:   09/10/2017
---

 _Leviticus 12, 16, 23_

`Read Leviticus 12, 16, 23. Why were many of the rules listed in these chapters almost impossible to follow in New Testament times?`

We can put the Old Testament laws into five separate groups. This separation will help us understand the laws better: (1) the Ten Commandments; (2) the ceremonial laws—these laws explained the use of animals in worship; (3) civil law—this law explained a citizen’s duty to government and to other citizens; (4) judgments; and (5) health laws. 

Now, our putting the laws into five separate groups is not a separation that is truly there in the law itself. Many laws in one group overlap with laws in another group. So, the laws are not really separate. But the separate groups help us understand the laws better. Just remember that people in Old Testament times did not think of the laws as separate.  

Another name for the Ten Commandments is the moral law (Exodus 20:1–7). The moral law shows us our duty to God. The civil laws and judgments come from the moral law. The civil laws list punishments for law-breaking.

The law explaining the use of animals in the Jewish plan of worship is named the ceremonial law. It included the different animals that the Jews had to bring as gifts to God. These laws also list feast days and how to honor them. 

The health laws overlap the other laws. Some health laws talk about how sin makes God’s people “unclean.” But the health laws also include rules for a healthy body. The health laws also talk about rules for clean and unclean meats.

Many Jews thought of these laws as one package. But the Jews must have felt that some laws were more special than other laws. God spoke the Ten Commandments to His people. So, this miracle made that law very special. 

But the other laws God gave Moses to give to the Jews could not always be followed. There were laws explaining worship in the sanctuary. The sanctuary was the place where God was worshiped before Solomon’s temple was built. But the sanctuary laws could be followed only while the sanctuary was in place. Other examples were the civil laws. And the Jews no longer followed the civil laws when they were under the control of another country. Many laws about using animals for worship could not be followed after the temple was destroyed. Also, the animals pointing to Jesus were not needed after He died.