---
title:  Following in the footsteps of Moses
date:   10/10/2017
---

_Acts 15:2–12_

`Read Acts 15:1. What problem was causing disagreement in the church? Why did some people believe the problem was not only about Jews, but also about Gentiles? Gentiles were non-Jews. (Read Genesis 17:10 for a hint.)`

Christians in the city of Antioch wanted to win many people to Jesus. To do that, they needed the help of the apostles. Apostles were men chosen by Jesus to be the first leaders in the church. So, the church in Antioch worked together with the apostles to win people to Jesus. 

At the same time, some Jews from Judea began to cause trouble in the church. These Jews said all Gentile believers must do two things to be saved: (1) Gentiles must be circumcised. To be circumcised means that the extra skin at the end of the sex organ of a man or a boy is cut off. (2) Gentile believers must follow the whole ceremonial law. You will remember that this law explained the use of animals in the Jewish plan of worship.

The Jews were proud of their worship plan. Many Jews who accepted Jesus felt God would never change any part of that plan. They said that Jewish laws and special feast days should be included in the Christian religion. These Jewish Christians were slow to understand that the animals they brought to God were symbols of Jesus’ death. But the animals were no longer needed after Jesus died.

`How was the disagreement in Acts 15:2–12 solved?`

“Paul asked God for wisdom. Paul also felt the need to ask church leaders for help. Paul was glad to take problems to church leaders and ask for advice.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders], page 200, adapted. 

How interesting! After all, Paul was a prophet. A prophet is a special messenger from God. But here was Paul the prophet gladly working together with the church. Paul understood he was only one small part of a larger group. So, Paul felt he needed to work together with the church as much possible.

`What would happen if no one wanted to work together? How would we ever get anything done?`