---
title:  The non-jewish believers
date:   11/10/2017
---

_Acts 15:5–29_

`Read Acts 15:5–29. As shown in these verses, what decision did the Jerusalem Group make, and why?`

The Jerusalem Group made big decisions for the whole church. The Jerusalem Group’s decision went against the Judaizers. The Judaizers taught that non-Jewish believers who were male (1) must have the extra skin at the end of their sex organs cut off and (2) follow all the laws of Moses. The Judaizers said faith alone was not enough to save a person. The Judaizers also said that “the Jewish laws and religious feasts should be included in the Christian religion.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders], page 189, adapted. 

It is interesting that in Acts 15:10 Peter says these old laws were a “heavy load” no one could carry (NIrV). Would the God who made the laws lay them as a heavy weight on His people? No! But over time, some Jewish leaders changed the gift of these laws into heavy loads by adding many more rules for the people to follow. So, the Jerusalem Group wanted to free non-Jews from carrying those loads. 

Notice nothing is said in these verses about not obeying the Ten Commandments. It would be very strange if the Jerusalem Group told the non-Jews not to eat blood, but said it was OK to steal!

`Read Acts 15:20, 29. What rules did the Jerusalem Group give the non-Jewish believers? And why these rules?`

The Jerusalem Group voted that Jewish believers should not force their human-made rules on non-Jews. But the Jerusalem Group also wanted to be sure non-Jews did not insult the Jews. So, the leaders of the Group wrote the non-Jews a letter. The letter told non-Jews (1) not to eat meat offered to statues of gods, (2) not to eat meat from strangled animals, and (3) not to eat blood. And non-Jews were not to have sex outside of marriage. But the letter said nothing about the Sabbath at all. Some Bible thinkers believe the letter’s silence about the Sabbath shows that non-Jews did not need to obey it. But the letter says nothing about the laws against lying and murder either. So, it is foolish to think that the non-Jews did not obey the Sabbath just because Paul does not say anything about the topic!