---
title:  Paul and the christians in Galatia
date:   12/10/2017
---

_Galatians 1:1–12_

The church was clear about what non-Jewish believers needed to do and not do. But some church members continued to say that non-Jews must follow many Jewish beliefs. Paul felt this idea rejected the Good News about Jesus. 

`As shown in Galatians 1:1–12, what is the problem in Galatia? How serious does Paul feel the problem is?` 

We said earlier that the problem in Galatia was a big reason why Paul wrote his letter to the Romans. The false teachers in Galatia argued that the law God gave to Moses should be followed by the non-Jewish believers. Paul did not want these false teachers to take control in Rome the way they had taken control in Galatia. So, Paul wanted to show the Romans the true meaning of the law. 

Some people might wonder which law Paul is talking about in Galatians and Romans. Is it the old law explaining the use of animals in worship? Or is it the Ten Commandments? But that question is too simple. That question asks for a quick and easy answer that does not include all the facts about the problem of the law that Paul talks about. That question causes the true meaning of the law to be misunderstood. The problem in Rome was about the things non-Jewish believers needed to do to become members. Should they be made to follow Jewish ways and laws? The answer was no. 

Today, Christians continue to argue over which laws should be followed. Some Christians see both of Paul’s letters as proof that Christians no longer need to obey the Ten Commandments. These Christians say the Sabbath no longer needs to be kept holy. But these people misunderstand what Paul wrote. Paul taught that we are saved by faith alone. Obeying the law does not save us. But saying that the law does not save us is not the same thing as teaching that the Ten Commandments should be thrown out. There was never a doubt in Paul’s mind that Christians must obey the Ten Commandments. Christians who think Paul was putting an end to the Ten Commandments are dead wrong. 

`What do you say to Christians who believe we no longer need to honor the Sabbath?`