---
title:  Additional thought
date:   13/10/2017
---

It is true that our church experiences times of disagreement and differences about ideas. Quarrels in the church are nothing new. After all, Satan always has been at war with the church. We find this war going on in the earliest days of the church too. There was strong disagreement at that time among believers. But there was one disagreement that could have destroyed the church in its early years. In the end, the problem was solved.

But it was an awful problem while it lasted. At that time, “False teachers tricked the believers in Jerusalem. Their false teachings led believers in Galatia to sin. The false teachers mixed Jewish ways and beliefs handed down from the past with the truths about the Good News that Jesus saves us from sin. These false teachers rejected the ruling by the Jerusalem Group. Instead, they said that non-Jewish believers must follow the old Jewish ceremonial law. [The ceremonial law explained the different gifts a person should bring to God in worship]”.—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles [Leaders], page 383, adapted. 

**Discussion questions**

`1. How might you or your church be putting “heavy loads” on members? At the same time, how can we tell if we have become too careless in the way we live or follow God?` 

`2. What are some of the ideas used to support the false teaching that Christians no longer need to obey the Ten Commandments? Why are these ideas wrong?`

`3. Read Galatians 1:1–12 again. Notice Paul’s strong stand for the Good News. Paul is not willing to give up the truths he believes so that he might reach an agreement. What should Paul’s strong stand for the truths of the Good News in Jesus tell us about how strongly we must stand in our beliefs too?`

`4. In class, talk about what started the Protestant Reformation. The Protestant Reformation was a time when people began to “wake up” to Bible truths. The Reformation began in the 1500s. Its purpose was to change the Roman Catholic Church for the better. Later, those changes led to the start of the Protestant churches. What differences continue to be there today between Protestants and Catholics?`