---
title:  Further Thought
date:  17/03/2023
---

Though nothing in the Bible warns against wealth, nothing in the Bible talks about wealth as increasing one’s spiritual commitment either. In fact, the opposite danger is true. “The love of money, the desire for wealth, is the golden chain that binds them [people] to Satan.”—Ellen G. White, Steps to Christ, p. 44.

In fact, since the founding of Christianity, no church has ever partaken of such wealth and creature comforts as the church in many countries of the world enjoys today. The question is: At what cost? Such affluence surely influences our spirituality—and not for the good either. How could it? Since when have wealth and material abundance fostered the Christian virtues of self-denial and self-sacrifice? Can coming home to refrigerators stuffed with more food than we can eat, and owning one or two cars, and taking yearly vacations, and shopping online, and having the latest in home computers and smartphones make it easier to love not the world nor the things in the world? Though many members of our church don’t have these luxuries, many do—and they do so at the peril of their own souls. We are not talking about the “rich” now, as in millionaires and beyond. They at least know that they’re rich, and they can heed (if they choose) the biblical cautions given them. We’re talking, instead, about many even of the middle-class people, who—amid smartphones, iMacs, air-conditioning, and SUVs—are fooled enough to think that because they are just “middle class,” they are not in danger of being spiritually pickled by their own prosperity. That’s why tithing can be, if nothing else, a powerful spiritual antidote to the dangers of wealth, even for those who are not particularly “wealthy.”

**Discussion Questions**:

`Even if we are not rich by the world’s standards, why must we all be careful about our attitude toward money and wealth?`

`What are some practical things we can do, besides tithing, that can help us make sure we are not getting too caught up in the things of this world?`

`What would happen to you tomorrow if, suddenly, you could not buy or sell because you are numbered among those “who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus” (Rev. 14:12, NKJV)? How well would your faith fare?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Lift Him Up, “The Atonement—Our Foundation of Peace,” p. 332;<br/>
This Day With God, “Separating From Sin,” p. 94.<br/>