src/en/2019-02-er/07/01.md, before:

---
title: 'Peace And Agreement In The Family'
date: 11/05/2019
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 2:11–22; John 17:22; Philippians 2:3–5; Ephesians 5:21; Genesis 33:12–14.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘You are in me and I am in you. I pray that they can also be one in us. Then the world [all the people on the earth] will believe that you sent me’ ” (John 17:21, ERV).

**FAMILIES** have important experiences at different times in life. Many of these experiences are times of big change for different family members. One of the biggest changes for a family is a new baby. Children also have important experiences in life as they grow up. They may choose to start their own families and have children too.

But parents and children all have the same problem. Each one of us is born a sinner. Sin makes it very hard for us to have peace and agreement in our families.

Yes, Jesus made us all one with God and with each other. His death on the cross made this peace possible (Ephesians 2:13–16; Colossians 1:21–23). Do you want peace in your family? Of course, you do! So, you must ask Jesus to give you His loving-favor every day. Jesus’ loving-favor is His gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. This special gift helps us to get along with our family members. It helps us to live with each other in peace and agreement. Again, each day we must ask Jesus for this special gift. We also must have faith that Jesus gives this gift to us.

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/07/01.md, after:

---
title: 'Peace And Agreement In The Family'
date: 11/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for this week’s lesson
Ephesians 2:11–22; John 17:22; Philippians 2:3–5; Ephesians 5:21; Genesis 33:12–14.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘You are in me and I am in you. I pray that they can also be one in us. Then the world [all the people on the earth] will believe that you sent me’ ” (John 17:21, ERV).

**FAMILIES** have important experiences at different times in life. Many of these experiences are times of big change for different family members. One of the biggest changes for a family is a new baby. Children also have important experiences in life as they grow up. They may choose to start their own families and have children too.

But parents and children all have the same problem. Each one of us is born a sinner. Sin makes it very hard for us to have peace and agreement in our families.

Yes, Jesus made us all one with God and with each other. His death on the cross made this peace possible (Ephesians 2:13–16; Colossians 1:21–23). Do you want peace in your family? Of course, you do! So, you must ask Jesus to give you His loving-favor every day. Jesus’ loving-favor is His gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. This special gift helps us to get along with our family members. It helps us to live with each other in peace and agreement. Again, each day we must ask Jesus for this special gift. We also must have faith that Jesus gives this gift to us.
