---
title:  "PEACE AND AGREEMENT STARTS WITH JESUS"
date:   12/05/2019
---

`What word picture does Paul use in Ephesians 2:11–22? How does this word picture help us understand that Jesus joins His people together in peace? How does Jesus make “one” group out of “two groups” (Ephesians 2:16, ERV)? (Read also Galatians 3:28.)`

In Ephesians 2:11–22, Paul talks about the walls in the Jewish temple. These walls separated worshipers. Some walls separated the men from the women. Other walls separated the Jews from the Gentiles. Gentiles are non-Jews. These walls are a word picture for the thoughts, feelings, and ideas that separate people. But Jesus’ cross removes these “walls.” Jesus “planned to create [make] one new people out of Jews and Gentiles. He wanted to make peace between them” (Ephesians 2:15, NIrV). This plan is good news! It also helps couples to become one heart, mind, spirit, and body in marriage. But what about families that are broken for a long time? Get ready for more good news! Broken families can join together in peace again too.

`Sure, it is nice to read about the peace we can have in Jesus. But what does it really mean to have that peace in our lives? What changes does Jesus make in our lives to help us have this peace? For the answers, read Romans 6:4–7; 2 Corinthians 5:17; and Ephesians 4:24–32.`

“Make a picture in your mind of a large circle. Draw lines that go from the outside edge of the circle to the center. The lines will get closer to each other as they get closer to the center. . . . In the same way, we come closer to each other when we come closer to Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, page 179, adapted.

“Jesus stands between fathers and their sons and between husbands and wives. He works for them even if they do not know about it. By ourselves, we cannot make good connections with other people. We need Jesus’ help. Bible study and obeying God will help us connect with other people too.”—Dietrich Bonhoeffer, The Cost of Discipleship  [making new followers for Jesus] (New York: The MacMillan Publishing Company, 1979), page 108, adapted.

`What can we do to make our marriages and friendships better and stronger?`