---
title: 'God S Love Makes Us One With Each Other'
date: 13/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

**“May the Lord make you grow in love for each other and for everyone” (1 Thessalonians 3:12, NLV).**

`Jesus prayed. He asked His Father to make His followers “ ‘one as We are One’ ” (John 17:22, NLV). What does Jesus mean? Why do Jesus’ followers need love in their hearts first before they can be one with other people? How does love help us to become one with God and each other?`

Jesus wanted His followers to be one in heart and mind. But first they needed “agape [a-ga´-pē]” love (John 17:26). “Agape” love is the Bible word for God’s love. Jesus says this word in His prayer in John 17. “Agape” love also is written in many other places in the New Testament. What exactly is “agape” love? It is the unselfish love that makes God who He is (1 John 4:8). This unselfish love shows everyone who Jesus’ true followers are too (John 13:35). A sinner’s heart cannot feel “agape” love by itself. So, we must invite Jesus into our hearts. Then His “love” will live in us by His Holy Spirit (Romans 5:5; Romans 8:9, 11). 

“ ‘Love each other as I have loved you’ ” (John 15:12, ERV). Yes, John wrote these words. But he was not always loving. When John first met Jesus, John was filled with pride. He wanted power. He got mad very fast. He talked bad about the way some people did things. (Read about John’s behavior in Mark 3:17; Luke 9:54, 55; The Desire of Ages, page 295.) But Jesus’ love changed John. Later in John’s life, John remembered that Jesus kept loving him. Even when John did the wrong thing. Jesus’ love changed John. Jesus’ love helped John to love other people too. “We love Him because He loved us first” (1 John 4:19, NLV). “That is how much God loved us, dear friends! So we also must love each other” (1 John 4:11, ERV). 

`Read 1 Corinthians 13:4–8. Do you see where the word “love” is written in these verses? Every time you read the word “love,” put your name there. Can the things about love be said about you? Ask Jesus to help you to have this love. God’s Spirit will help you too. So, why not invite Him to live in your heart right now? Then He can help you be more loving. But you may need to make some changes first. What changes do you think the Spirit will ask you to make?`