---
title:  "SELFISH HEARTS DESTROY FAMILIES (Philippians 2:3–5)"
date:   14/05/2019
---



`“What if we stopped being selfish? What if our hearts were not full of pride? Then we will solve most of our problems in five minutes!”—Ellen G. White, Early Writings, page 119, adapted.`

We are sinners. What is the one thing that shows we are full of sin more than anything else? Our selfish hearts. We are born selfish. Look at small children. Their favorite word seems to be “Me, me, me!” By the time we are adults, we can be very selfish. Often, the place where we show our selfishness the most is in our homes.

But Jesus came to change our selfish hearts (Ephesians 4:24). The Bible promises us that selfishness does not need to control our lives. Jesus’ whole life is a perfect example. It shows us what it means to live with no selfishness. Here is a wonderful promise: The more we live as Jesus lived, the less selfish we will be (1 John 2:6)!

**Read the verses below. What do these verses tell us about living an unselfish life?**

`Philippians 2:3–5`

`1 John 3:16–18`

Read again what Ellen G. White wrote about selfish hearts. What did she say happens when we stop being selfish and proud? We can solve most of our problems very fast. That is important. What happens when we do not solve our problems? They turn our hearts mean and nasty. So, we must throw out selfishness (Proverbs 16:6). But we cannot do it ourselves. We need Jesus’ help. He invites us to come to the Cross. There, we must kneel in prayer, faith, and even tears. Then, we must give our hearts fully to Jesus. We must ask Him to wash us clean from our sins.

`How much time do you spend at the Cross fighting against the sin in your life? How does Matthew 7:16 help you to know if you need to spend more time there?`
