---
title:  "BE WILLING TO SERVE EACH OTHER (Ephesians 5:21)"
date:   15/05/2019
---



`What advice does Paul give us in Ephesians 5:21? How does our serving other people help us to have peace in the church? Why is it important that we serve each other at home too? Read Ephesians 5:22–6:9 for the answer.`

What is the meaning of the words written as “be willing to serve” in Ephesians 5:21, ERV? These words mean “to choose freely to help or care for someone.” Jesus always showed this important rule in His life (Matthew 20:26–28; John 13:4, 5; Philippians 2:5–8). All Jesus’ followers will show this impor-tant rule in their lives too (Ephesians 5:18). Our serving other people shows that God’s Spirit fills us (Ephesians 5:18). What leads us to serve other people? “Respect for Christ [Jesus]” (Ephesians 5:21, ERV). When we serve other people, we show them this important truth. Jesus’ love makes all people equal. No one is more special or less special than anyone else.

**A Rule to Live by in the Family**. Our family life shows exactly how much we live the truths we preach. When the truth changes our lives, we will show our families we love them. Family members must be willing to serve each other too. This behavior at home will make a big difference in the church. 

In Ephesians 5:22–6:9, Paul talks about three different connections between people. The people in these connections are not equal to each other in the eyes of the community. Paul is not trying to show that the community’s view about people is right. Paul wants to show that these three connections will change when Christians freely choose to serve and care for each other. 

`Why do you think that Paul always speaks first to church members who have very little power in their communities? This group includes wives, children, and slaves. Why does Paul tell each of these groups that they should be willing to serve people? Read Ephesians 5:22; Ephesians 6:1; and Ephesians 6:5 for the answer.`

Paul always talks to husbands, parents, and masters second. This second group has the most power in the community. Paul tells both groups to do more than the community expects of them. Paul’s advice must have surprised everyone in the church at the time. His advice helped members understand how to bring true peace and agreement in the church.