src/en/2019-02-er/07/06.md, before:

---
title: 'A Life Of Love'
date: 16/05/2019
---

In the end, peace in the family depends on family members. It starts first with the husband and wife. They must be willing to show they care for each other. Bible history is filled with many sad stories. These stories show people who broke their promises to other people. The Bible also shows us many wonderful stories about loving and caring people. With God’s help, these people kept their promises to their families and friends.

**Look at the stories about families in the verses below. What do you think some of these people did wrong? Why did some of the people in these stories show so much love for their families?**

`Parent-child love (Genesis 33:12–14; Exodus 2:1–10)`

`Love between brothers (Genesis 37:17–28)`

`Love between family members (Ruth 1:16–18; Ruth 2:11, 12, 20; Ruth 3:9–13; Ruth 4:10, 13)`

`Love in marriage (Hosea 1:2, 3, 6, 8; Hosea 3:1–3)`

Love is a promise that we make to another person. We make a promise when we get married. We promise to love our husband or wife more than we love any other human. We make a promise when we choose to adopt a child. We choose to love that child forever. When we love, we must be willing to serve and show we care. We must be willing to keep our promises to our loved ones too. Marriages and families need love in order to grow and be a success. 

`What does Jesus’ promise in Hebrews 13:5 mean to you? How does it change how you love and serve Him? How does Jesus’ promise to you also change how you serve and love your husband or wife? Your children? The people in your church?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/07/06.md, after:

---
title: 'A Life Of Love'
date: 16/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In the end, peace in the family depends on family members. It starts first with the husband and wife. They must be willing to show they care for each other. Bible history is filled with many sad stories. These stories show people who broke their promises to other people. The Bible also shows us many wonderful stories about loving and caring people. With God’s help, these people kept their promises to their families and friends.

**Look at the stories about families in the verses below. What do you think some of these people did wrong? Why did some of the people in these stories show so much love for their families?**

`Parent-child love (Genesis 33:12–14; Exodus 2:1–10)`

`Love between brothers (Genesis 37:17–28)`

`Love between family members (Ruth 1:16–18; Ruth 2:11, 12, 20; Ruth 3:9–13; Ruth 4:10, 13)`

`Love in marriage (Hosea 1:2, 3, 6, 8; Hosea 3:1–3)`

Love is a promise that we make to another person. We make a promise when we get married. We promise to love our husband or wife more than we love any other human. We make a promise when we choose to adopt a child. We choose to love that child forever. When we love, we must be willing to serve and show we care. We must be willing to keep our promises to our loved ones too. Marriages and families need love in order to grow and be a success. 

`What does Jesus’ promise in Hebrews 13:5 mean to you? How does it change how you love and serve Him? How does Jesus’ promise to you also change how you serve and love your husband or wife? Your children? The people in your church?`
