src/en/2019-02-er/07/07.md, before:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 17/05/2019
---

Ellen G. White, “A Sacred [set apart as holy] Circle [a word picture for the family],” pages 177–180, in The Adventist Home; Testimonies for the Church, volume 6, pages 236–238.

**Peace and Agreement: Our most important work.** 

“What is the most important work for Christians to do? They must show that there is peace and agreement in their families. . . .
 
“Families should work closely together. They should join together as one in their work in the home. Then both fathers and mothers, and sons and daughters, will be very helpful to other people outside their home too.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, page 37, adapted. 

“What causes fighting in the family and church? The answer is: separation from Jesus. When we come near Jesus, we will come closer to each other. What helps us to have real peace and agreement in the church and our families? It is not our skill or power to solve problems. It is not our wise management either. Yes, these skills are important. We need these skills to solve many problems in the family and in the church. But what we need most is to join ourselves to Jesus. We need to become one with Him. Then we will have true peace and agreement in the church.”—Page 179, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Talk about the things in your community that work against you having peace and agreement in your family. What can you do to protect your family from these things?`

`2. Is there a family in your church right now that is broken? What can you do as a class to help this family?`

`3. We talked this week about serving other people. What does the Bible mean when it says we should be willing to serve? Are there wrong ways of serving other people? If yes, what are they? How can we be guilty of serving other people in the wrong way? What can we do to avoid this mistake in the future?`

`4. What are some of the ways we can show peace and agreement in our families? How can we use these ideas to make peace in the church too?`

Commit message:

Adding ER message on top of each lesson

src/en/2019-02-er/07/07.md, after:

---
title: 'Additional Thought'
date: 17/05/2019
--

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Ellen G. White, “A Sacred [set apart as holy] Circle [a word picture for the family],” pages 177–180, in The Adventist Home; Testimonies for the Church, volume 6, pages 236–238.

**Peace and Agreement: Our most important work.** 

“What is the most important work for Christians to do? They must show that there is peace and agreement in their families. . . .
 
“Families should work closely together. They should join together as one in their work in the home. Then both fathers and mothers, and sons and daughters, will be very helpful to other people outside their home too.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, page 37, adapted. 

“What causes fighting in the family and church? The answer is: separation from Jesus. When we come near Jesus, we will come closer to each other. What helps us to have real peace and agreement in the church and our families? It is not our skill or power to solve problems. It is not our wise management either. Yes, these skills are important. We need these skills to solve many problems in the family and in the church. But what we need most is to join ourselves to Jesus. We need to become one with Him. Then we will have true peace and agreement in the church.”—Page 179, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1. Talk about the things in your community that work against you having peace and agreement in your family. What can you do to protect your family from these things?`

`2. Is there a family in your church right now that is broken? What can you do as a class to help this family?`

`3. We talked this week about serving other people. What does the Bible mean when it says we should be willing to serve? Are there wrong ways of serving other people? If yes, what are they? How can we be guilty of serving other people in the wrong way? What can we do to avoid this mistake in the future?`

`4. What are some of the ways we can show peace and agreement in our families? How can we use these ideas to make peace in the church too?`
