---
title:  Freedom versus Restlessness
date:   20/01/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 8:31–47**

**Freedom versus Restlessness**

In his desire to grow closer to God, Martin Luther, a sixteenth century monk and scholar, made a pilgrimage from his monastery in Germany to Rome, where he climbed an ancient stone staircase on bloody knees—a common act of self-mortification at that time. Before reaching the top, a passage of Scripture flashed into Luther’s mind: “The just shall live by faith” (Rom. 1:17). He bolted to his feet as he realized exactly what that means: he was free from salvation by works, from trying to gain God’s favor through his actions. After this incredible awakening, Luther went on to become God’s messenger to Europe, the leading voice of the Protestant Reformation. His teachings helped free millions from the bondage of unbiblical teachings like indulgences, priestly confessionals, penances, idolatry, sacraments, and papal infallibility. There’s truly nothing more liberating than a personal encounter with Jesus Christ.

Luther’s German translation of the Bible, the first to be based on the original Greek and Hebrew, was the gateway to liberty for a people long held under the grip of old superstitions. Wherever the Scriptures have been published in the people’s language, the people have been set free, often to the great dismay of those who’ve maintained their power by restricting knowledge.

Luther had challenged the mightiest power structure of his time. Unsurprisingly, he also had to contend with fanatics that emerged later and sought to redefine the Reformation with counterfeit forms of liberty. New teachers such as Thomas Müntzer gained a large following comprised of people who were restless, tired of restraint, and subversive toward the civil government’s authority. For Luther, “The opposition of the pope and the emperor had not caused him so great perplexity and distress as he now experienced. From the professed friends of the Reformation had risen its worst enemies. The very truths which had brought him so great joy and consolation were being employed to stir up strife and create confusion in the church” (Ellen White, _The Great Controversy_ [1911], 187). The lesson this week will explore the essence of the freedom Jesus offers and why many reject it in favor of counterfeits.

### inScribe

Write out John 8:31–47 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 31–38. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._