---
title:  The Enemy Within
date:   21/01/2024
---

### inGest

Many of the crowds in Jesus’ day loved to hear preachers who exposed corruption and highlighted the injustices of the age. More than a few were disappointed by Jesus’ preaching, for He said nothing of the evils of Rome. No, the sins He exposed were those of His own people. They were happy to listen to His promises of freedom until they realized He was promising a different kind of freedom.

Still today, in this age of clickbait preaching, people love to see videos and articles that expose government corruptions and the world’s glaring inconsistencies. It’s no easier today to accept Jesus’ loving message that our biggest threat is not the government, no matter how corrupt it may be, but our own sinful hearts. The problems in the government only reveal the greater issues of spirit and attitude hidden deep within us. Jesus’ message teaches that regardless of what’s happening in the world, we’re the greatest source of our troubles. Our fiercest battle lies in conquering the enemy within our own hearts. Once we’ve gained the victory over self, all other victories follow. Jesus promised to deliver us from the cruelest of all bondages: “Most assuredly, I say to you, whoever commits sin is a slave of sin.... Therefore if the Son makes you free, you shall be free indeed” (John 8:34, 36). Jesus promised the very best kind of freedom, for freedom of the soul is at the foundation of every other freedom.

Several years ago, a friend of mine reached out for help with his tobacco addiction. I explained to him that he was choosing between two conflicting forms of freedom. On one hand, he could have the liberty to do whatever he feels like doing, including the use of tobacco whenever he desires. Or on the other hand, he could find freedom from the cruel bondage of this addiction which was destroying his health, future, and happiness. My friend knew that false promises of freedom had actually made him a slave. He wanted deliverance from the chains of this destructive habit. When my friend quit the tobacco, his smile was bigger than ever, not only because he was healthier but also because his heart was free. Anyone who has helped a friend overcome an addiction knows just how much a person will love you after you’ve helped them find freedom. The only joy greater than finding freedom might be the joy of helping another person step into freedom. It is our privilege to proclaim the gospel truth of Jesus, which emancipates people still today (John 8:32).

The freedom God offers delivers us from the painful cycle of hurting ourselves and hurting others. His power breaks the chains of destructive habits and sin that keep us in bondage. Jesus sets us free from the guilt and darkness that hold us back. To even the most degraded sinner He offers forgiveness and restoration. With Jesus, we find the freedom to live an abundant life that overflows with God’s own love and peace. What an amazing reality!

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [Arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`How does truth set people free?`

`What are some common examples of bondage we see today?`