---
title:  True Freedom
date:   22/01/2024
---

### inTerpret

To all who accept it, Jesus gives the same freedom He gave the woman caught in adultery in John 8:3–11. This unnamed woman was worn down with shame and guilt. She knew she deserved the full penalty of the law. Instead of letting her face her deserved punishment, however, Jesus lifted her up and set her free with the words, “go and sin no more” (John 8:11). He made it clear that He wasn’t setting her free to do whatever she felt like doing, but was liberating her from the destructive cycle of sin. Only Jesus can provide this level of freedom—the kind that comes from keeping His law (James 1:25).

Unfortunately, not everyone is interested in this kind of freedom. Jesus could set the adulterous woman free because she was penitent, but He could bring no freedom to the unrepentant Pharisees. He told those who rejected Him, “If you do not believe that I am He [the Son of God], you will die in your sins” (John 8:24b). They were too proud and too focused on the oppression they faced from the Romans to recognize their need for deliverance from sin. They were neither willing to acknowledge that bondage nor accept liberation from the only Person who could offer it. They went so far as to argue, “We are Abraham’s descendants, and have never been in bondage to anyone. How can You say, ‘You will be made free’?” (v. 33). This couldn’t have been further from the truth. Not only does the Jewish history include centuries of bondage to Rome, Greece, Persia, Babylon, and Egypt, but the chains of sin encumber all human beings. Furthermore, it is because the Jews had broken their covenant with God that they were oppressed and conquered by the other empires in the first place! Until His audience dealt with the bondage of their own sinful hearts, Christ could do nothing to truly liberate them. The people wanted Him to deliver them from Rome, but the Savior saw no great value in freeing them from an earthly master if they were content to remain in bondage to the greater enemy He had come to defeat.

As with any freedom, the freedom Jesus brings is one that can be abused. Many Christians today misinterpret the liberation we find in Christ to mean there’s no law and no boundaries; that they’re free to do anything they please. Multiple authors of the New Testament addressed this very danger. Paul warned, “For you, brethren, have been called to liberty; only do not use liberty as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another” (Gal. 5:13). Peter cautioned, “Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God” (1 Pet. 2:16, ESV). Peter’s concern in this context was that Christians might misuse their freedom in Christ as an excuse to nurture contempt for government authority. He tells us plainly to “submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord’s sake, whether to the king as supreme, or to governors” (vv. 13, 14, NKJV). True freedom in Christ empowers us to “Honor all people. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king” (v. 17). The false freedoms that allow lawlessness and insubordination are counterfeits that the New Testament does not recognize—and neither should we recognize them.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why does God give us restrictions? In what sense does true freedom involve submitting to restrictions?`