---
title:  Competing Freedoms
date:   24/01/2024
---

### inVite

Jesus clearly saw freedom in a different light than His listeners did, for He viewed His audience as needing freedom (John 8:32, 34–36) while they declared themselves already free (v. 33). This is because the father of all lies (v. 44), the devil, is a master con artist who routinely tricks people into feeling that they’ve discovered freedom when they’re actually slipping into total bondage. Every soul in this world must ultimately decide who they believe is promising real freedom.

The father of all lies began his work in this world by promising a freedom he claimed to be superior to that which God had already given. Genesis 3:1–6 records the serpent beguiling Eve into thinking God was somehow preventing her from discovering something better. After listening to the serpent, she was wrongly convinced that God was withholding good things from her. The same lie caused the prodigal son to distrust his father in the story of Luke 15:11–32. He left home excited about a new life without rules and boundaries, but in the pursuit of freedom, he became a poor, hungry slave (v. 14–16). Instead of achieving a successful life without rules and boundaries, he got stuck taking care of pigs.

The world still offers glittery promises of freedom. Our culture constantly feeds us songs, movies, and other media that lead us to feel that if we buy a certain product, dress a certain way, or talk a certain way, we’ll discover some new kind of freedom. Popular culture constantly tells us, “You’ll be happy if you do whatever you feel like! Don’t let your parents’ narrow mindsets hold you back!” But be warned, for “While they promise them liberty, they themselves are slaves of corruption; for by whom a person is overcome, by him also he is brought into bondage” (2 Peter 2:19). In other words, the people who make certain media promising us more freedom are the very people who lead us into bondage with them should we give in to their so-called advice.

Jesus promises a different kind of freedom—one in which we love God supremely and put others before ourselves. It’s the only the freedom that gives us a life full of peace, joy, and meaning. What’s stopping you from rejecting the devil’s lies and embracing the freedom Jesus offers? Identify the obstacles stopping you from fully following Christ and find a true friend and prayer partner who can help you navigate around them. His freedom is true and lasting; the only freedom that truly matters.

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`How does the freedom Jesus offers compare to the freedom the world offers?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`