---
title:  Further Thought
date:  31/05/2019
---

Many have suffered as a result of their addictions. They have become slaves to their desires and have lost their money, their jobs, their health, and their freedom. But Jesus came to give us freedom from our sin and from all our addictions, and “ ‘if the Son makes you free, you shall be free indeed’ ” (John 8:36, NKJV). Jesus also promised that He would always be with us (Matt. 28:20, Isa. 43:2); so, we do not have to wage this war alone. In fact, we must remember that the battle is the Lord’s (1 Sam. 17:47), and He promises victory (1 Pet. 1:3–9). Today you can begin on the road to victory over any addiction and receive the freedom you desire and what God wants for you. This doesn’t mean you won’t struggle, and it doesn’t mean that, at times, you won’t fail. But the good news is that as long as you don’t give up on the Lord, He won’t give up on you. And yes, there’s nothing wrong with seeking professional help, too. Just as the Lord can use a medical professional to help you with health problems, He can use a professional counselor to help with addiction, as well.

“When difficulties and trials surround us, we should flee to God, and confidently expect help from Him who is mighty to save and strong to deliver. We must ask for God’s blessing if we would receive it. Prayer is a duty and a necessity; but do we not neglect praise? Should we not oftener render thanksgiving to the Giver of all our blessings? We need to cultivate gratitude. We should frequently contemplate and recount the mercies of God, and laud and glorify His holy name, even when we are passing through sorrow and affliction.”—Ellen G. White, Selected Messages, book 2, p. 268.

**Discussion Questions:**

`What part does forgiveness play in loss of trust and in the healing of a broken relationship? Matt. 6:12–15; 18:21, 22. “Love . . . doesn’t keep a record of wrongs that others do” (1 Cor. 13:5, CEV).`

`What is the benefit of contemplating and recounting the mercies of God while we’re passing through sorrow and affliction?`

`What are practical ways your church family, as a whole, can help those who are struggling with any kind of loss?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Our High Calling_, “The Perfect Work of Patience,” p. 70.