---
title:  Rejoice in the Lord Always
date:  23/09/2021
---

One of the most-used apps on our smartphones is Google Maps. Most of us cannot remember what we did before GPS-based maps existed on our phones. We may be nervous heading toward a place that we have never been to before, but with Google Maps on our phones, we can confidently venture out and find our way in any foreign city. Could this confidence be an illustration of the kind of rest God wants to give us with His prophetic timetable?

Sometimes, however, we may enter the wrong address into our apps, or we may just decide not to follow the directions because we think we know a shortcut. In either case, we may end up somewhere we didn’t want to be—and most definitely not in a restful frame of mind, either.

`Read Philippians 4:4–6. What is Paul saying here to us about the way to have true rest, true peace, even amid a harried and painful world?`

In this passage, Paul is not saying to rejoice always, in all the trials that you are facing. Instead he is saying, “Rejoice in the Lord always.” No matter our present situation, no matter what trials we are facing, if we dwell on God, on His goodness, His love, and on His sacrifice on the cross for us, we can rejoice in Him and have peace for our weary souls.

Just the very tone of the texts implies rest, peace, and a transcendent hope of something beyond this world.

Imagine, too, the kind of rest for our souls that we would have if, indeed, we could be “anxious for nothing.” This hardly seems realistic for anyone in this world (even Paul had plenty of worries), but again, knowing that a loving God is ultimately in control and will save us into His kingdom can, surely, help us put the things that we are anxious about into proper perspective.

The “Lord is at hand”? That is, He is always close to us, and as soon as we close our eyes and rest in the sleep of death, the next thing we know is the return of Christ.

No question, life is full of tensions, trials, and struggles. None of us escape them; certainly the apostle Paul didn’t either (see 2 Corinthians 11). Nevertheless, his point is to tell us that even with all that we endure now, we can rejoice in what we have been given in Christ, and, indeed, we can find rest for souls, even now.

`Read Philippians 4:4–6 again. In what ways can you apply these wonderful words to your experience right now in whatever trials and tribulations you are facing?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It may seem difficult to rejoice in the Lord when in trouble, but we lose a great deal by giving way to a spirit of complaint. It is our privilege to have in our hearts, at all times, the peace of Christ. We should not allow ourselves to be easily disturbed. It is to test us that God brings us through trials and difficulties, and if we are patient and trustful under His proving, He will purify us from all dross, and at last bring us forth with triumph and rejoicing. Great blessings are reserved for those who uncomplainingly submit to the yoke that God wishes them to bear. …

“In everything give thanks” (1 Thessalonians 5:18) for the keeping power of God through Jesus Christ. … At the moment when you are offering your prayer for help you may not feel all the joy and blessing that you would like to feel, but if you believe that Christ will hear and answer your petition, the peace of Christ will come.—_Our High Calling_, p. 326.

My head is weary this morning. Mist and clouds hang over my mind; but the suggestions of the enemy to distrust the Lord shall not be cherished. Now is my time to fight the good fight of faith. Now is the very occasion that needs the steady faith that works by love and purifies my soul. I seek the Lord more earnestly.

In 1 Chronicles 28:9 David gives his charge to Solomon.

The message was brought to Asa by the Lord’s prophet: “The Lord is with you, while ye be with him; and if ye seek him, he will be found of you; but if ye forsake him, he will forsake you” (2 Chronicles 15:2; cf. Jeremiah 29:11-13). My heart goes out in faith. Faith is not feeling; faith is not sight. …

… I believe the promise is for me, and I appropriate the same personally. The promise itself is of no value unless I fully believe that He that has made the promise is abundantly able to fulfill, and infinite in power to do all that He has said.—_This Day With God_, p. 156.

O how privileged we are that we may come to Jesus just as we are and cast ourselves upon His love! We have no hope but in Jesus. He alone can reach us with His hand to lift us up out of the depths of discouragement and hopelessness and place our feet upon the Rock. Although the human soul may cling to Jesus with all the desperate sense of his great need, Jesus will cling to the souls bought by His own blood with a firmer grasp than the sinner clings to Him. …

What a Saviour we have—a risen Saviour, One who can save all who come unto Him!—_That I May Know Him_, p. 80.