---
title:  Further Thought
date:  24/09/2021
---

“We all desire immediate and direct answers to our prayers, and are tempted to become discouraged when the answer is delayed or comes in an unlooked-for form. But God is too wise and good to answer our prayers always at just the time and in just the manner we desire. He will do more and better for us than to accomplish all our wishes. And because we can trust His wisdom and love, we should not ask Him to concede to our will, but should seek to enter into and accomplish His purpose. Our desires and interests should be lost in His will.”—Ellen G. White, Gospel Workers, p. 219.

“It will only be a little while before Jesus will come to save His children and to give them the finishing touch of immortality. . . . The graves will be opened, and the dead will come forth victorious, crying, ‘O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?’ Our loved ones who sleep in Jesus will come forth clothed with immortality.”—Ellen G. White, Counsels on Stewardship, p. 350.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Think about the reality of the great controversy. How do you see it being played out in the world? How about in your own personal life? It’s very real, isn’t it? In fact, it’s more real than many people think, because many don’t believe in a literal devil. Why is understanding the reality of the great controversy so important in helping us to understand the state of our world? Also, why is our understanding of how this great controversy will end so comforting?`

`Prophecy can be a distraction if we try to go beyond what is clearly revealed. How often have church members gotten in trouble, making predictions about events that didn’t come to pass or believing in others’ predictions that didn’t come to pass? How can we protect ourselves from falling into that kind of trap?`

`In class, go over Revelation 14:9–11 and the question about those who worship the beast and his image not having rest. What might that mean?`

`A controversial topic in the church has to do with what role we do or do not have in the timing of Christ’s return. Whatever position one takes on this, why is it still very important that we take an active role in spreading the message of His return to the world?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_This Day With God_, “Complete Commitment,” p. 128;

_The Upward Look_, “Search the Scriptures,” p. 368.