---
title:  Signs That the End Is Near
date:   14/06/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Lesson

Daniel 2:31–45; Daniel 3:1–12; Revelation 13:11–17; Acts 12:1–17; Matthew 12:9–14.

> <p>Memory Verse</p>
> “For God did not give us a spirit of fear. He gave us a spirit of power and of love and of a good [healthy; strong] mind” (2 Timothy 1:7, NLV).

This week, we will look at two more Bible stories that show us what will happen at the end of earth’s history.

First, we will look at the story about Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. This story will help us better understand what Revelation 13 says about the end times. Then we will look at the experience of the early Christians in the New Testament. Their experience also can help us understand what to expect between now and the Second Coming.

Both experiences show us people who were filled with a lot of courage. These experiences will help us know how to be at peace during the hard times ahead.

Again and again, Jesus told His followers not to be afraid or to let their thoughts upset them. We must remember that the Bible’s special messages about the future are all about Jesus. That’s why we will see that these special messages are filled with the same advice Jesus gave His followers while He lived on earth. Jesus told His followers, “ ‘Do not let anything trouble your heart. You believe in God and you must believe in me also’ ” (John 14:1, WE). In other words, end-time happenings will be hard for God’s loyal people. But we should think about these future happenings with hope, not fear.