---
title:  The Adventist Understanding of Daniel 2
date:   15/06/2025
---

One of the most powerful end-time messages in the whole Bible is Daniel 2. Daniel wrote his book more than 500 years before Jesus was born. In Daniel 2, Daniel tells us about the future history of this earth. Daniel starts with his time and the kingdom of Babylon, then talks about the future kingdoms of Media-Persia, Greece, and Rome. These kingdoms will control the earth after Babylon. Finally, Daniel talks about the break-up of Rome into the countries of modern Europe that we see today.

Daniel says this about these European countries: “ ‘You saw iron and clay that were mixed together. The two parts of that kingdom will try to become united by [with] marriage. But that [marriage] will not help them to stay together as one. Iron cannot mix properly [together] with clay’ ” (Daniel 2:43, EASY). This end-time message happened exactly as Daniel said it would. Leaders from the different countries of Europe married the daughters of leaders from nearby countries. With these marriages, these leaders tried to join their countries together. But their people continue to be divided.

`What was Nebuchadnezzar’s dream? How did Daniel explain this dream? Read Daniel 2:31–45 for the answers.`

The end-time messages in the book of Daniel all follow the same pattern or story that we see in Daniel 2. So, we can expect the rest of the end-time messages in the book of Daniel also to show us this same pattern. We see four worldwide kingdoms. Then the fourth kingdom divides into two parts. These two parts can never unite into one kingdom again. In other words, the end-time messages show us history from ancient times to our time. This explanation for end-time messages in the Bible is named the historicist rule. Seventh-day Adventists use the historicist rule to understand end-time happenings in the Bible. The historicist rule is very important for helping us have a correct understanding of the end times in the Bible. We must use the historicist rule when we study the book of Revelation. Then we will correctly understand its end-time messages.

`How does Daniel 2 prove to us that God knows the future? How does Daniel 2 show us that God is in charge of the future, too?`