---
title:  Worshiping the Statue
date:   16/06/2025
---

After Daniel explained King Nebuchadnezzar’s dream, the king was loyal to Daniel’s God for a time (read Daniel 2; pay special attention to verses 46–48). But the king’s loyalty didn’t continue for long.

`Read about King Nebuchadnezzar’s statue in Daniel 3:1–12. Why did the king make the statue all gold? Why did the king command everyone to worship the statue? What do you think these two things meant?`

The king refused to obey God’s message about the future (Daniel 2). The king showed his refusal to obey with the statue he built on the plain of Dura. The king made the whole statue gold. The king’s message? Babylon will be an everlasting kingdom that will not end. Also, Nebuchadnezzar will always be king. The king announced he would kill anyone who dared to question his idea. The king’s command helps us understand that the wish to do things our way can blind us to God’s truth about how the worldwide war between good and evil will end.

In some ways, King Nebuchadnezzar behaves the same as Lucifer. Both the king and Lucifer were proud and self-important, and they both wanted to be a success. Both of them fought against God’s control and government. In other ways, Nebuchadnezzar and Lucifer were very different from each other. After some time, Nebuchadnezzar felt sorry for his sins. He confessed his faults and announced his faith in God. We have good reasons to believe that we will see Nebuchadnezzar in the kingdom he fought so hard against.

`Read Daniel 3:17, 18. In these verses, the three Hebrew youths stand against the king’s command. What does their courage teach us about faith? What does this story teach us that our faith may ask of us at times?`

Think how easily these three men could have made excuses for bowing down. But they were willing to be burned alive instead. Does that mean they were a little crazy? Couldn’t they have just faked their worship? They could bow down, pretend to tie their shoelaces, and pray to their own God in their hearts, right? Did they really need to risk their lives? They thought so, even if their words show that they knew they may not escape with their lives.