---
title:  Worshiping the Statue, Again
date:   17/06/2025
---

Bible students see a connection between Daniel 3 and the end-time happenings in the book of Revelation. And for a good reason, too. Daniel 3 talks about the command to worship the statue. Whoever doesn’t worship it will be killed (Daniel 3:15). In the same way, the book of Revelation teaches us about the command to worship another statue. Whoever doesn’t worship it also will be killed. “The second beast [animal] was given power to give life to the idol [false god] of the first beast. Then the idol could speak and order [command] all those [people] who did not worship it to be killed” (Revelation 13:15, ERV).

`What is the fight about in the end times? Read Revelation 13:11–17; Revelation 14:9, 11, 12; Revelation 16:2; Revelation 19:20; and Revelation 20:4 for the answer.`

God commands His people to worship Him because “He made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water [places where water comes out of the earth]” (Revelation 14:7, ERV). God’s people must worship Him and not the beast and its false god. The three Hebrew boys must make the same choice. They refuse to worship anything other than the God who made them. What happened in Daniel 3 and what will happen in Revelation 13 may be different in some ways. But the command to worship a false god in both chapters, and not the God of heaven, is the same.

`Read Romans 1:18–25. (Do you see the connection between Romans 1:18 and Revelation 14:9, 10 about God’s anger?) Why is God angry? What is the worship of the false god really about?`

Worship doesn’t only mean bowing down and offering a gift of sweet-smelling perfume (but it can include these things). We worship whatever we serve or give our loyalty to. Think about who God is and what He did for us in Jesus. God made us. He gave Jesus to die for our sins. These reasons are enough for us to worship Him. Anything else we worship is a false god. Maybe this idea helps explain Jesus’ words: “ ‘Whoever is not with me is against me. And anyone who does not work with me is working against me’ ” (Matthew 12:30, ERV). End-time happenings will show the truth of Jesus’ words in the life of everyone on earth.