---
title:  Attacks Against the New Testament Church
date:   18/06/2025
---

The New Testament also helps us understand end-time happenings. Life wasn’t easy for Christians in New Testament times. Many Jews hated Christians because they believed the Christians were a danger to the Jewish religion. The Kingdom of Rome also hurt Christians during this time. “People and demons alike attacked the followers of Jesus. When they hurt Jesus’ followers, they hurt Him. Some of the people who attacked Jesus’ followers were the followers of false gods and people who worshiped nature. These people understood that if anyone accepted the Good News about Jesus, they would stop worshiping the gods in their temples and stop making offerings to them on their altars. So, these followers of false gods decided to destroy Christianity.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 39, adapted.

A story in the book of Acts (Acts 12:1–17) shows us in a powerful way what God’s people can expect in the end times (read Revelation 13).

`Read Acts 12:1–17. What parts of this story help you better understand some of the things that will happen in the end times?`

King Herod Agrippa chopped off James’s head. Peter was next. In those days, you were killed for being a Christian. One of the most surprising parts of the story is that Peter is sleeping during what should be the worst night of his life. He slept so deeply that “the angel struck Peter on his side” (Acts 12:7, NIrV) to wake him up!

The angel, of course, releases Peter from jail. Then Peter went to a meeting of Christians, who were praying for him. But when Peter showed up, the Christians had trouble believing Peter was really free. The Bible says they were surprised. How often do we pray for something, the same as these Christians, and then hardly dare to believe that God will answer us?

During this time, some Christians were saved from death. Other Christians were killed. As we near the end of human history, the same thing will happen. Peter also died for his faith a few years later (read John 21:18, 19).