---
title:  The Mark of the Beast
date:   19/06/2025
---

As the years pass, some people have started to doubt the Adventist message about the end times. They start to wonder if worldwide Sunday worship will really happen. They doubt if the Sabbath is important in the final fight between good and evil.

The book of Revelation tells us plainly what will happen: we will worship God or worship the beast and his false god. The final test must be about something that shows our loyalty to God. When we worship God on the Sabbath, we show our loyalty to the God who made us. The Sabbath is as old as the Garden of Eden itself (read Genesis 2:1–3). So, we should not be surprised if the final test is about worship. For sure, the Sabbath will be important in the end times. The beast says that he changed the Sabbath commandment from the seventh day to Sunday. God didn’t give the beast power permission to make this change. With these ideas in mind, we can understand why the day we worship on will be the final test. We will worship the God who made us (Revelation 14:6, 7). Or we will worship the beast. The New Testament helps us understand more about the final test.

`Read the following verses: Matthew 12:9–14 and John 5:1–16. Why did the Jewish leaders want to kill Jesus?`

In Matthew 12, Jesus heals a man with a dried up, crippled hand (Matthew 12:9–13). When Jesus heals the man on the Sabbath, what do the Jewish leaders do? They “made plans to kill Jesus” (Matthew 12:14, ERV). Did you see that? **They wanted to kill Jesus because of the seventh-day Sabbath.** In John 5:1–16, Jesus does another healing miracle on the seventh day. Then “the Jewish leaders made trouble for Jesus because he did this [miracle] on the Sabbath day” (John 5:16, WE). So, they tried “to kill Him” (verse 18, NKJV).

Death because of man-made laws against healing on the Sabbath? (Nothing in the Bible says healing on the Sabbath breaks God’s law. In the same way, nothing in the Bible teaches that Sunday replaced the Sabbath.) Of course, the problem about the Sabbath in these verses isn’t the same as in the end times. But these verses help us understand that the test in the end times will be a choice between man-made laws and God’s law. In both the story in John 5 and in Revelation 13, the test will be about the Sabbath.