---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   20/06/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “God’s People Delivered,” pages 635–652, in The Great Controversy.

“In all ages, God worked with His angels to help save His people. Angels have an important part in the work that God’s people do. Angels wear clothes that are as bright as lightning. Angels travel as men. Angels appear as humans to men of God. Angels rested, as if tired, under the oak trees at noon. They accepted hospitality from human homes. They served as guides to travelers. Angels, with their own hands, started the fires at the altar. They opened prison doors and helped the servants of the Lord to escape. Angels who wore the battle suit of heaven came to roll away the stone from the Savior’s grave.

“Angels who appear as men are often in the meetings of God’s holy people. Angels also visit the places where evil people meet together. Angels went to Sodom. There, they made a record of the things the people of the city did. The angels wanted to learn how evil the people were. The Lord loves to show mercy. For a few people who really serve Him, God will protect big crowds of people and stop disasters from happening. These sinners do not understand that they owe their lives to the loyal few that they make fun of and hurt.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, pages 631, 632, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Read 2 Timothy 1:7. Talk about the end-time happenings and signs that worry you the most. The Bible warns us that we will be hurt for our faith. This warning scares many people. How do we replace the spirit of fear with hope?`

`Right now, we may not see how Sabbath and Sunday will become the final test. But look at how fast things on this earth can change. What should this knowledge teach us about why we must put our faith in the Bible and not in what happens in the news?`

`Think about Daniel 2 and 7. All the kingdoms came and went just as the Bible said. Today, when we look back at history, we can see that only one more kingdom is to come. Which kingdom is that? Why can we trust that it will happen just as God says?`