---
title:  Noah Made The Lord Happy
date:   05/02/2023
---

Often, God asks people who want riches to make big changes in life. Are you ready to do something big for God? Get ready to make big changes!

`Read about Noah in Genesis 6:5–14. What big changes happened to Noah because he chose to obey God? Noah warned everyone that a flood was coming. We also must warn people that we are in the end times. What important lessons can we learn from Noah’s example?`

Noah didn’t spend his time and money only making himself happy. Noah chose to do what God asked him to do. Noah spent 120 years building the big boat that God told him to make.

Today, many people say that the story about the Flood is make-believe. Their doubt is nothing new. “Before the Flood, the people on earth said that the laws of nature would never change. The laws had stayed the same for hundreds and hundreds of years. Before this time, rain never fell from the sky. Mist or dew watered the earth. The rivers never overflowed. Laws kept the waters from flooding their shores.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 96, adapted. Before the Flood, people argued that a flood could never happen. After the Flood, some people said that the Flood never happened at all!

In the same way, the Bible says that many people in the end times won’t believe that the earth will end (read 2 Peter 3:3–7). What does God expect us to do during this time? We should be patient. We should do the work God has asked us to do. God promises us a wonderful reward in the future. We don’t know when Jesus will come back. But do we need to know the exact date? What matters is that we do what Noah did. We must do what God asks us, even if we must make some big changes in life.

`God asked Noah to make a big change in his life. How ready are you to make whatever changes God may ask you to make? (Hint: read Luke 16:10.)`