---
title:  'Abram: Man of Faith'
date:   06/02/2023
---

God commanded Abram to leave his homeland and his family. God told Abram to go to a land that He would show him. For sure, this decision wasn’t easy to make. No doubt Abram gave up some pleasures and comforts to follow God.

`Read Genesis 12:1–3 about God’s promise to Abram. Abram accepted the promise. How did God use Abram “ ‘to bless all the people on earth’ ” (Genesis 12:3, ERV)?`

Abram left his home and his family. This move was a big, life-changing decision for Abram. “God called Abraham to travel to another place that he promised to give him. Abraham did not know where that other place was. But he obeyed God and started traveling because he had faith” (Hebrews 11:8, ERV). “Abraham didn’t question God. Abraham obeyed. Abraham’s obedience is one of the most powerful examples of faith in the whole Bible.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 126, adapted.

Most of us wouldn’t want to leave our homes, families, and friends. But Abram did so. Abram was happy to be where God wanted him to be. During their lifetimes, Abram, Isaac, and Jacob didn’t get the land God promised them. But these men trusted God anyway.

`What main message can we see in Hebrews 11:8–13?`

People knew Abram was a prince. Abram was brave, giving, and caring, too. We can follow Abram’s example when we tell other people around us about God. God will give Abraham and us an everlasting reward. “ ‘Abraham believed God, and because of this faith he was accepted as one who is right with God’ [quote from Genesis 15:6]. So you should know that the true children of Abraham are those who have faith” (Galatians 3:6, 7, ERV). “If you belong to Christ, then you have become the true children of Abraham. What God promised to him is now yours” (Galatians 3:29, NLV).

Abraham’s story is about someone who makes a big, life-changing decision just the same as Noah did. Both men made their decisions because they chose to obey God.

`What important rule is in 2 Corinthians 4:18? How did Noah and Abraham follow this same rule? How should this rule help us make our own spiritual decisions?`