---
title:  Lot’s Bad Decisions
date:   07/02/2023
---

When Abram left home to follow God, Lot chose to go with him. Lot was the son of Abram’s brother. Genesis 13 shows us how much God blessed Abram: “At this time Abram was very rich. He had many animals and much silver and gold” (Genesis 13:2, ERV). The Bible adds, “Lot also had many sheep, cattle and tents” (Genesis 13:5, ICB). Both Abram and Lot became very rich. God blessed them with many cattle. Abram wanted to avoid any problems between his herdsmen and Lot’s herdsmen. So, Abram offered to let Lot choose where he wanted to live. Of course, Lot should have let Abram choose first. Lot was rich because of Abram. But Lot was selfish. He wanted the best land for himself.

`Read Genesis 13:10–12 about Lot’s decision. Why do you think Lot chose to do what he did?`

Lot chose to move to the city. But then something bad happened to Lot. When Abram heard what happened to Lot, what did Abram do? Did Abram say, “Well, too bad for you, Lot.” No! Abram saved Lot from danger (read Genesis 14).

Sometimes our greedy hearts keep us from learning from our mistakes, the same as Lot. Lot moved back to Sodom after Abram saved his life! But God forgave Lot. God planned to destroy Sodom for being so evil. But first, God sent angels to warn Lot and his family to leave Sodom.

`Read in Genesis 18:20–33 about God’s visit to earth. Why did God visit Abraham? When God tells Abraham His plan to destroy the cities, how does Abraham answer?`

Abraham cares for Lot and his family. Abraham tries to save them. He asks God not to destroy the cities if 50 good people can be found there. Abraham starts with 50 good people and then reduces that number little by little to only ten good people. God agrees to everything Abraham asks. It is sad to say, Abraham’s bargain is not enough to save the cities. Less than ten good people live in Sodom. God sends His angels to lead Lot, his wife, and two of his daughters out of Sodom to safety. But Lot’s wife looks back at the burning city. When she does, she becomes a statue made of salt. Lot went to Sodom a rich man. Lot lost everything when he left Sodom. Please learn from Lot. Be very careful about the decisions you make (read Mark 8:36, 37).