---
title:  A Thief Becomes a Prince
date:   08/02/2023
---

As a young man, Jacob loved and respected God. But he made some very bad choices. He and his mother, Rebekah, lied to his father, Isaac, to get his blessing. Because of this wrong choice, Jacob had to flee from home so his brother wouldn’t kill him. Rebekah told Jacob, “ ‘So, son, do what I say. My brother Laban is living in Haran. Go to him and hide. Stay with him for a short time until your brother stops being angry. When your brother forgets what you did to him, I will send a servant to bring you back’ ” (Genesis 27:43–45, ERV). So, Jacob left home. He was gone for 20 years. He never saw his mother again.

`Read the story in Genesis 32:22–31. What happened to Jacob in this story? What important lessons does this story teach us about God’s mercy, even when we make bad choices?`

“Jacob was a sinner. He made mistakes. But he emptied his heart of all pride. He was sorry for his sins. He gave himself fully to God. That is why Jacob won with God. Jacob believed in the promises of God. God could not turn away from Jacob. God’s love is without limits. God showed Jacob his sin. Jacob understood that he lied and cheated to get the blessing from his father. Jacob failed to trust God’s promises. Jacob tried by his own efforts and strength to get the blessing from God. . . . God forgave Jacob for lying and cheating. Jacob got the pardon from God that he wanted so much.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pages 197, 198, adapted.

`Read the story in Genesis 49:29–33. What did Jacob ask his sons to do for him when he died? Who also was buried in the cave? Why do you think Jacob wanted to be buried there?`

The Bible tells us that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, along with their wives, are buried in the same cave. Jacob’s trust in God was strong. Jacob knew that he was only a stranger and traveler on this earth (read Hebrews 11:13).Yes, Jacob made mistakes in life. He left home with nothing. But he came back to Canaan a very rich man.

`God can bless us, even if we make mistakes. What choices do you need to make? How can you stop yourself from making the wrong ones?`