---
title:  Moses In Egypt
date:   09/02/2023
---

Moses is a very important person in the early years of Bible history. When Moses was a baby in Egypt, Pharoah, the king of Egypt, made a law to kill all the baby boys born to Hebrew slaves. God helped Moses’ mother and his sister to protect him when he was a baby in Egypt.

Pharaoh’s daughter found baby Moses in the Nile River. Moses was sleeping in a little boat made by his mother. Pharaoh’s daughter paid Moses’ mother to take care of Moses. Moses’ mother, Jochebed, was a slave. God blessed her anyway by letting her take care of her son. Pharaoh’s daughter allowed Jochebed to keep Moses for only 12 years. During that time, Jochebed taught her child to pray, trust, honor God, and to serve Him. After that, Moses went to live in the palace with Pharaoh’s daughter. There, Moses learned how to become the next king of Egypt. The Bible tells us, “The Egyptians taught Moses everything they knew. He was powerful in all he said and did” (Acts 7:22, ERV). While Moses grew up, he made a very important decision that changed his life and history.

`Read what Paul says about Moses in Hebrews 11:24– 29. What decision did Moses make? What did Moses give up when he made his decision? Also, what did Moses accept when he left Egypt?`

Egypt was one of the richest and most powerful countries on earth at the time that Moses lived. The Nile River made Egypt an excellent place to grow crops. Pharaoh chose Moses to be the top leader of his kingdom.

But what did Moses choose to do? The Bible tells us that Moses “chose to suffer with God’s people instead of enjoying sin for a short time” (Hebrews 11:25, NCV). Moses suffered many things because of his choice. The book of Exodus tells us all about the troubles and hard times that Moses suffered. Sad to say, Moses didn’t enter the Promised Land (read Numbers 20:12). At times, Moses may have wondered if he made the right choice. In the end, we know that Moses made the best choice.

`Some people may say that Moses should have stayed in Egypt. Do you agree? Explain your answer. As Christians, we have Bible promises for a better life. How can these promises help us when we suffer hard times?`