---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   10/02/2023
---

God honored His promise to Abraham. God blessed Abraham with many things. Abraham honored God by loving God more than all his riches. “God promises His people a special reward. But God’s people will not get this reward in this life. God didn’t give Abraham any land to own in this life, ‘not even a foot of it.’ Acts 7:5, [NCV]. Abraham owned many things. Abraham used his riches to honor God and help other people. But Abraham knew that this earth wasn’t his home. The Lord commanded Abraham to leave his country because the people there worshiped false gods. God promised Abraham the land of Canaan. Abraham would own this land forever. But Abraham didn’t get this land in his lifetime. His son and his grandson also did not get this land in their lifetime. When Abraham needed a place to bury his dead, he had to buy the grave from the Canaanites. The only thing Abraham owned in the Promised Land was the grave in the land of Machpelah.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 169, adapted.

So often in life we may want riches or pleasure. We need to have strong faith to say no to living just to get these things. We need to wait for the reward God has promised. “Moses did not choose to live in Pharaoh’s palace or sit on his throne and be very powerful. Moses knew that the palace was filled with pleasures that would cause him to forget all about God. Moses wanted better things than to live in a palace and wear a king’s crown. Moses wanted the reward that God promises to give His loyal people. Moses wanted to live in a kingdom where there was no sin. By faith, Moses saw the crown that God will put on the head of everyone who wins the fight against sin. This crown is everlasting. By faith, Moses turned away from everything that the kings of this earth offered him.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 246, adapted.

**Discussion questions**:

`What will happen to the things we own when Jesus comes? Read 2 Peter 3:10 for the answer. What can happen to our stuff before Jesus comes? Read James 5:2, 3 and Luke 12:16–21. Why must we remember these Bible truths?`

`What does Jesus warn us about in Mark 4:19? How can a love for money weaken our love for Bible truth?`