---
title:  Further Thought
date:  08/05/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “What to Do With Doubt,” pp. 105–113, in Steps to Christ, and from the document “Methods of Bible Study,” section 1 (Preamble), section 2 (Presuppositions Arising From the Claims of Scripture), and section 3 (Principles for Approaching the Interpretation of Scripture). “Methods of Bible Study” can be found at www.adventistbiblicalresearch.org/materials/bible-interpretation-hermeneutics/methods-bible-study.

“In your study of the word, lay at the door of investigation your preconceived opinions and your hereditary and cultivated ideas. You will never reach the truth if you study the Scriptures to vindicate your own ideas. Leave these at the door, and with a contrite heart go in to hear what the Lord has to say to you. As the humble seeker for truth sits at Christ’s feet, and learns of Him, the word gives him understanding. To those who are too wise in their own conceit to study the Bible, Christ says, You must become meek and lowly in heart if you desire to become wise unto salvation.

“Do not read the word in the light of former opinions; but, with a mind free from prejudice, search it carefully and prayerfully. If, as you read, conviction comes, and you see that your cherished opinions are not in harmony with the word, do not try to make the word fit these opinions. Make your opinions fit the word. Do not allow what you have believed or practiced in the past to control your understanding. Open the eyes of your mind to behold wondrous things out of the law. Find out what is written, and then plant your feet on the eternal Rock.” —Ellen G. White, Messages to Young People, p. 260.

**Discussion Questions:**

`How do our worldview, our education, and our culture influence our interpretation of Scripture? Why is it so important for us to be aware of the outside influences that we inevitably bring to our interpretation of the Bible?`

`We all agree that we are sinful and negatively impacted by sin. In what ways does sin affect how we read the Bible? That is, what does sin do to us that could cause us to misinterpret the Word of God? For example, how might a desire to do something condemned in the Bible cause us to read the Bible in a skewed way? In what other ways does sin filter how we interpret the Bible?`

`How can a better understanding of the biblical times and culture help us better understand some passages of Scripture? Give some examples.`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

This Day With God, “Know for Yourself,” p. 314;

Steps to Christ, “What to Do With Doubt,” pp. 105–113.