---
title:  I Will Arise
date:  03/02/2024
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Ps. 18:3-18, Ps. 41:1-3, Deut. 15:7-11, Psalm 82, Ps. 96:6-10, Ps. 99:1-4, Rom. 8:34.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “ ‘For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now I will arise,’ says the Lord; ‘I will set him in the safety for which he yearns’ ” (Psalm 12:5, NKJV).

Our age is not the only age in which evil, injustice, and oppression rage. The psalmists lived in such a time, as well. And so, whatever else they are, the Psalms are also God’s protests against the violence and oppression in the world, in our world, and that of the psalmists, as well.

Yes, the Lord is long-suffering and holds His wrath in His great forbearance, not wanting anyone to perish but to repent and change their ways (2 Pet. 3:9-15). And though God’s proper time for His intervention does not always coincide with human expectations, the day of God’s judgment is coming (Ps. 96:13, Ps. 98:9). We just need to trust in Him, and in His promises, until that day comes.

Only the Creator, whose throne is founded on righteousness and justice (Ps. 89:14, Ps. 97:2), can provide, with His sovereign judgment, stability and prosperity to the world. The twofold aspect of divine judgment includes deliverance of the oppressed and destruction of the wicked (Ps. 7:6-17).

This is what we have been promised, and this is what will, indeed, one day come—but in God’s time, not ours, a point that the psalmist emphasizes.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, February 10._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Lord is soon to come in the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory. Is there not enough comprehended in the truths which cluster round this event and in the preparation essential for it, to make us think solemnly of our duty? Distinctly and clearly this subject is to be kept before the people. “The Son of man shall come in his glory . . . : and before him shall be gathered all nations” (Matthew 25:31, 32). . . .\
The final judgment is a most solemn, awful event. This must take place before the universe. To the Lord Jesus the Father has committed all judgment. He will declare the reward of loyalty to the law of Jehovah. God will be honored and His government vindicated and glorified, and that in the presence of the inhabitants of the unfallen worlds. On the largest possible scale will the government of God be vindicated and exalted. It is not the judgment of one individual or of one nation, but of the whole world. Oh, what a change will then be made in the understanding of all created beings. Then all will see the value of eternal life.—_This Day With God_, p. 296.

The pure religion of Jesus is the fountain from which flow streams of charity, love, self-sacrifice.\
A Christian is a Christlike man, a Christlike woman, who is active in God’s service, who is present at the social meeting, whose presence will encourage others also. Religion does not consist in works, but religion works; it is not dormant.\
Many seem to feel that religion has a tendency to make its possessor narrow and cramped, but genuine religion does not have a narrowing influence; it is the lack of religion that cramps the faculties and narrows the mind. When a man is narrow, it is an evidence that he needs the grace of God, the heavenly anointing; for a Christian is one whom the Lord, the God of hosts, can work through, that he may keep the ways of the Lord of the earth and make manifest His will to men.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, vol. 7_, p. 935.

There is joy and consolation for the true-hearted, faithful Christian, that the world knows not of. To them it is a mystery. The Christian’s hope is big with immortality and full of glory. It reacheth to that within the veil, and is as an anchor to the soul, both sure and steadfast. And when the storm of God’s wrath shall come upon the ungodly, this hope will not fail them, but they are hid as in the secret of His pavilion. . . .\
Though the earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and be removed like a cottage, if we have made God our trust, He will deliver us. “He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.” “Because thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge, even the Most High, thy habitation; there shall no evil befall thee.”—_Sons and Daughters of God_, p. 354.