---
title:  Further Thought
date:  09/02/2024
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Beatitudes,” pp. 6-13, 29-35, in Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing.

The Psalms are protests against human indifference to injustice; they are a refusal to accept evil. They are motivated not by a desire for revenge but by a zeal to glorify God’s name. Hence, it is fitting for the righteous to rejoice when they shall see God’s vengeance on evil because in this way God’s name and His justice are restored in the world (Ps. 58:10, 11). The Psalms oblige people to raise their voices against evil and to seek the coming of God’s kingdom in its fullness. In the Psalms, we are given assurance of divine comfort and deliverance. The Lord will arise!

“ ‘When men shall revile you, and persecute you,’ said Jesus, ‘rejoice, and be exceeding glad.’ And He pointed His hearers to the prophets who had spoken in the name of the Lord, as ‘an example of suffering affliction, and of patience.’ James 5:10. Abel, the very first Christian of Adam’s children, died a martyr. Enoch walked with God, and the world knew him not. Noah was mocked as a fanatic and an alarmist. ‘Others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment.’ ‘Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a better resurrection.’ Hebrews 11:36, 35.”—Ellen G. White, _Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing_, p. 33.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Because the painful realization of the evil in the world can cause one to wonder whether the Lord actually reigns, how can we grow an unshakable faith that will stand strong even under temptation? That is, what must we focus on in order to maintain our faith in God’s love and goodness and power? What should the Cross say to us about God and His character?`

`Why is it important not to rely on human means (leaders, institutions, and social movements) as the ultimate wisdom and solution for justice in the world but rely solely on God’s Word and judgment?`

`What are the practical implications of the truth that the sanctuary is the place of divine judgment?`

`How can we understand the harsh language of some psalms? How does that language help us relate to the humanity of those who wrote them?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_This Day With God_, “God’s Law Is Immutable,” p. 246;\
_In Heavenly Places_, “Our Personal Intercessor,” p. 79.