---
title:  A Royal Priesthood
date:   08/04/2017
---

### A Royal Priesthood

### Read for This Week’s Study
1 Pet. 2:1–3; Heb. 4:12; 1 Pet. 2:4–8; Isa. 28:16; Exod. 19:3–6; 1 Pet. 2:5, 9, 10.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “You are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, His own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light” (1 Pet. 2:9, NKJV). 

Immersed as he is in Jewish culture, religion, and history, Peter refers to the Christians he is writing to as a “holy nation, God’s own people.” By doing so, he is taking covenant language that the Old Testament uses to refer to ancient Israel, and applying it here to the New Testament church. 

And no wonder: Gentile believers in Jesus have been grafted into God’s covenant people. They are now partakers of the covenant promises, as well. “If some of the branches have been broken off, and you, though a wild olive shoot, have been grafted in among the others and now share in the nourishing sap from the olive root, do not consider yourself to be superior to those other branches. If you do, consider this: You do not support the root, but the root supports you” (Rom. 11:17, 18, NIV).  

In the passages for this week, Peter points his readers to the sacred responsibility and high calling that they have as God’s covenant people, those who (using Paul’s language) have been grafted into the olive tree. And among those responsibilities is the same as what ancient Israel had—proclaiming the great truth of the salvation offered in the Lord.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, April 15._
