---
title:  “Broken Bread and Poured-Out Wine”
date:  28/08/2022
---

`Consider: Oswald Chambers has said that we are to become “broken bread and poured-out wine” for others. What do you think he means by this?`

All through the Bible there are examples of people who were “broken” to serve others. Moses was called to endure unending waves of gossip and criticism as he led people to the Promised Land. Joseph was called to a journey that involved betrayal and imprisonment as he was brought to a position of service in Egypt. In each case, God permitted the situations in order that His people’s lives could become theaters of His grace and care, not only for themselves but also for the good of others, as well. God may use us in the same way. It is easy to feel angry or hurt in such situations. But as we noted yesterday, meekness is the God-given ability to endure such things “with patience and without resentment.”

`Read Ezekiel 24:15–27. What’s happening here? Why was Ezekiel put through this crucible?`

In Ezekiel 24:24, God says, “ ‘ “Ezekiel will be a sign to you; you will do just as he has done. When this happens, you will know that I am the Sovereign Lord” ’ ” (NIV). Through Ezekiel’s example, the people of Israel were going to be convicted of the truth about who God was, the Sovereign Lord—and they would see this truth as they experienced the fulfillment of the prophecy that Ezekiel’s life symbolized and the suffering that he had faced. Who knows how many people will see “the Sovereign Lord” through us in our own broken places, as well?

`Sooner or later life itself breaks us all. What has been your experience with being broken? What lessons have you learned? How can your own broken soul be used by the Lord to help other people?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[Moses] had been highly honored of God, being privileged to talk with the Lord face to face, as a man speaks with a friend. He was permitted to see the bright light and excellent glory that enshrouded the Father. The Lord through Moses delivered the children of Israel from Egyptian bondage. Moses was a mediator for his people, often standing between them and the wrath of God. When the anger of the Lord was greatly kindled against Israel for their unbelief, their murmurings, and their grievous sins, Moses’ love for them was tested. God proposed to destroy them and to make of him a mighty nation. Moses showed his love for Israel by his earnest pleading in their behalf. In his distress he prayed God to turn from His fierce anger and forgive Israel, or blot his name out of His book.—Early Writings, pp. 162, 163.

It was through suffering that Jesus obtained the ministry of consolation. In all the affliction of humanity He is afflicted; and “in that He Himself hath suffered being tempted, He is able to succor them that are tempted.” Isaiah 63:9; Hebrews 2:18. In this ministry every soul that has entered into the fellowship of His sufferings is privileged to share. . . . The Lord has special grace for the mourner, and its power is to melt hearts, to win souls. His love opens a channel into the wounded and bruised soul, and becomes a healing balsam to those who sorrow. “The Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort . . . comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God.” 2 Corinthians 1:3, 4.—Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, p. 13.

The difficulties we have to encounter may be very much lessened by that meekness which hides itself in Christ. If we possess the humility of our Master, we shall rise above the slights, the rebuffs, the annoyances, to which we are daily exposed, and they will cease to cast a gloom over the spirit. The highest evidence of nobility in a Christian is self-control. He who under abuse or cruelty fails to maintain a calm and trustful spirit robs God of His right to reveal in him His own perfection of character. Lowliness of heart is the strength that gives victory to the followers of Christ; it is the token of their connection with the courts above.<br/>
. . . Those who reveal the meek and lowly spirit of Christ are tenderly regarded by God. They may be looked upon with scorn by the world, but they are of great value in His sight. . . . [The] poor in spirit, who crave the presence of an abiding Christ, the humble in heart, whose highest ambition is to do God’s will,—these will gain an abundant entrance [to Heaven]. They will be among that number who have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.—The Desire of Ages, pp. 301, 302.