---
title:  Presence, Word, And Roadwork 
date:  15/02/2021
---

`How do God’s people receive comfort? Isa. 40:1–8.`

An unnamed herald announces that God is coming to reveal His glory (Isa. 40:3–5). Another voice proclaims that although humans are transient like foliage, “the word of our God will stand forever” (Isa. 40:8, NRSV).

After the exile, God’s people gain back what they had received at Mount Sinai and then rejected all through their apostasy, for which they were punished: God’s presence and His word. These are the basic ingredients of God’s covenant with Israel, which were enshrined at His sanctuary in their midst (Exod. 25:8, 16). Because they had violated His word, God had abandoned His temple (Ezekiel 9–11), but He is coming back. His presence and His eternally dependable Word bring comfort, deliverance, and hope.

`What preparation is necessary for the Lord’s coming? Isa. 40:3–5.`

It is not fitting for a king to be jolted by a rough road. So his coming is preceded by roadwork. The more so for the King of kings! His coming, apparently from the east, where He has been in exile with His people as a sanctuary to them (Ezek. 11:16), would require major rearrangement of the terrain. Construction of a literal, level superhighway through the rugged hills east of Jerusalem would be daunting, even with dynamite and bulldozers. God is the only One who can do the work; it is He who turns “the rough places into level ground” (Isa. 42:16, NRSV). But He doesn’t need a literal road for transportation because He has an airborne chariot of cherubim (Ezekiel 1, 9–11).

The New Testament explicitly applies Isaiah’s prophecy to the spiritual roadwork accomplished through the preaching of John the Baptist (Matt. 3:3). His message was: “ ‘Repent, for the kingdom of heaven has come near’ ” (Matt. 3:2, NRSV) and the baptism that he performed was “of repentance for the forgiveness of sins” (Mark 1:4, NRSV). So, the roadwork was repentance, willingness to turn away from sin, in order to receive the comfort of God’s forgiveness and presence.

Jeremiah 31:31–34 proclaimed the same spiritual message in plenty of time for the exiles of Judah to understand the spiritual nature of roadwork for God. In this passage, the Lord promises those who are willing a fresh start: a “new covenant” in which He puts His law in their hearts and pledges to be their God. They know Him and His character, because He has forgiven them.

`Read carefully Isaiah 40:6–8. What hope can you, who fade away as does the grass, derive from what these verses say? What should they warn us against putting our trust in?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Anciently, when a king journeyed through the less frequented parts of his dominion, a company of men was sent ahead of the royal chariot to level the steep places and to fill up the hollows, that the king might travel in safety and without hindrance. This custom is employed by the prophet to illustrate the work of the gospel. “Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low.” When the Spirit of God, with its marvelous awakening power, touches the soul, it abases human pride. Worldly pleasure and position and power are seen to be worthless. “Imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God” are cast down; every thought is brought into captivity “to the obedience of Christ.” 2 Corinthians 10:5. Then humility and self-sacrificing love, so little valued among men, are exalted as alone of worth. This is the work of the gospel, of which John’s message was a part.—_The Desire of Ages_, p. 135.

What is our work? The same as that given to John the Baptist, of whom we read: “In those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the wilderness of Judea, and saying, Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. For this is he that was spoken of by the prophet Esaias, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make His paths straight.” Matthew 3:1-3. . . .

The word of the Lord to us is: “Repent ye; prepare the way for a revival of My work.” . . .

Obstacles to the advancement of the work of God will appear; but fear not. To the omnipotence of the King of Kings, our covenant-keeping God unites the gentleness and care of a tender shepherd. Nothing can stand in His way. His power is absolute, and it is the pledge of the sure fulfillment of His promises to His people. . . . His goodness and love are infinite, and His covenant is unalterable.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 8, pp. 9, 10.

The infidel Voltaire once boastingly said: “I am weary of hearing people repeat that twelve men established the Christian religion. I will prove that one man may suffice to overthrow it.” Generations have passed since his death. Millions have joined in the war upon the Bible. But it is so far from being destroyed, that where there were a hundred in Voltaire’s time, there are now ten thousand, yes, a hundred thousand copies of the book of God. In the words of an early Reformer concerning the Christian church, “The Bible is an anvil that has worn out many hammers.” Saith the Lord: “No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn.” Isaiah 54:17.

“The word of our God shall stand forever.” Isaiah 40:8. Whatever is built upon the authority of man will be overthrown; but that which is founded upon the rock of God’s immutable word shall stand forever.—_The Great Controversy_, p. 288.