---
title:  Merciful Creator 
date:  17/02/2021
---

`How does Isaiah 40 develop the themes of God’s mercy and power?`

Throughout this chapter, God’s mercy and power are interwoven (see below) and even blended together, because they are both necessary in order for God to save His people. He wants to save them, because He is merciful; He is able to save them, because He is powerful.

- Mercy (Isa. 40:1–5): comfort, coming of the Lord to deliver.
- Power (Isa. 40:3–8): glory, permanence versus human weakness.
- Mercy (Isa. 40:9–11): good news of deliverance, Shepherd of His people.
- Power (Isa. 40:12–26): incomparable Creator.
- Mercy (Isa. 40:27–31): as Creator, gives power to the faint.

Having introduced God’s might in terms of His glory and permanence (Isa. 40:3–8), Isaiah elaborates on His power and superior wisdom, which make earth and earthlings appear puny (Isa. 40:12–17). Here Isaiah’s style, with rhetorical questions and vivid analogies referring to the earth and its parts, sounds like God’s answer to Job (Job 38–41).

`What is the answer to Isaiah’s rhetorical question: “To whom then will you liken God” (Isa. 40:18, NRSV)?`

For Isaiah, as for Job, the answer goes without saying: no one. God is incomparable. But Isaiah picks up on his question and refers to the answer that many ancient people implied by their actions, which is that God is like an idol (Isa. 40:19, 20).

To this notion Isaiah responds. Already it looks foolish to use an idol as a likeness of God, but just to be sure people get the point, he elaborates on God’s uniqueness and brings in the unanswerable argument that He is the holy Creator (Isa. 40:21–26).

`How does verse 27 reveal the attitude of the people addressed by Isaiah’s message? In what ways are we guilty of having the same attitude?`

The purpose of God’s message is to comfort people who need it! Like Job, their suffering had made them confused and discouraged concerning His character.

`Look through the verses for today. They talk not only of God’s mercy and His power but also of the fact that He is the Creator. Why is this truth so important to understand? How does the Sabbath, each week, help reinforce this crucial point?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Men of the greatest intellect cannot understand the mysteries of Jehovah as revealed in nature. Divine inspiration asks many questions which the most profound scholar cannot answer. These questions were not asked that we might answer them, but to call our attention to the deep mysteries of God and to teach us that our wisdom is limited; that in the surroundings of our daily life there are many things beyond the comprehension of finite beings.

Skeptics refuse to believe in God because they cannot comprehend the infinite power by which He reveals Himself. But God is to be acknowledged as much from what He does not reveal of Himself, as from that which is open to our limited comprehension. Both in divine revelation and in nature, God has given mysteries to command our faith. This must be so. We may be ever searching, ever inquiring, ever learning, and yet there is an infinity beyond.—_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 431.

He who has chosen Christ has joined himself to a power that no array of human wisdom or strength can overthrow. . . .

“To whom then will ye liken Me, or shall I be equal? saith the Holy One. Lift up your eyes on high, and behold who hath created these things, that bringeth out their host by number: He calleth them all by names by the greatness of His might, for that He is strong in power; not one faileth. . . . Hast thou not known? hast thou not heard, that the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary? there is no searching of His understanding. He giveth power to the faint; and to them that have no might He increaseth strength. Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall: but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.” Isaiah 40:25, 26, 28-31.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 8, pp. 39, 40.

God calls men to look upon the heavens. See Him in the wonders of the starry heavens. [Isaiah 40:26 quoted.] We are not merely to gaze upon the heavens; we are to consider the works of God. He would have us study the works of infinity, and from this study, learn to love and reverence and obey Him. The heavens and the earth with their treasures are to teach the lessons of God’s love, care, and power. . . .

. . . God calls upon His creatures to turn their attention from the confusion and perplexity around them, and admire His handiwork. The heavenly bodies are worthy of contemplation. God has made them for the benefit of man, and as we study His works, angels of God will be by our side to enlighten our minds, and guard them from satanic deception. As you look at the wonderful things God’s hand has made, let your proud, foolish heart feel its dependence and inferiority. As you consider these things, you will have a sense of God’s condescension.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 4, p. 1145.