---
title:  Scripture Before Immortality of the Soul
date:  28/05/2023
---

#### inGest

Jesus uttered a powerful warning concerning the last days: “For false christs and false prophets will rise and show signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect” (Mark 13:22). Who are the “elect”? Regarding that group, He later says, “And He will send His angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together His elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other” (Matt. 24:31). God is obviously going to have some faithful people in the last days, as He has had all through the ages. However, the wording here shows just how widespread Satan’s deceptions really are. A little scary, isn’t it, when the deceptions in the last days will be so great that even the faithful ones will be in danger of being deceived?

People are often told to follow their conscience to determine for themselves what is right or wrong, good or evil, and then live accordingly. But the Scripture says that we are all sinners, all corrupted (Jer. 17:9; Rom. 3:9–18), and so to trust our own sentiments is almost a guaranteed way to, sooner or later, get it wrong and even to do wrong. A lot of evil has been perpetrated through the ages by people utterly convinced of the rightness of their cause. In other words, they followed the “way that seems right” to them (Prov. 14:12).

Instead of trusting our own judgment, we must immerse ourselves in the Word of God, and from His Word, as we surrender to the Holy Spirit, learn truth from error, right from wrong, good from evil. Left to our own devices or even to our own senses, we can become easy prey to Satan’s deceptions.

In Revelation 16:13, 14 and Revelation 18:2, 23, such expressions as the “dwelling place of demons,” the “spirits of demons,” and “sorcery” are used to indicate that demonic activity is one of the tools Satan will employ to deceive the people of the world. We have also been warned that of the two great deceptions in the last days, one will be “the immortality of the soul” (see Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy [Mountain View, Calif.: Pacific Press Pub. Association., 1911], p. 588). Of course, that’s easy to identify today. Even in the Christian world, the idea of the soul being immortal is all but staple Christian doctrine. Many Christians believe that at death the saved go soaring off to heaven and the lost descend into hell. How often, for instance, after the evangelist Billy Graham died, did we hear that “Billy Graham is safe now in heaven, in the loving arms of Jesus” or the like? This kind of thing is taught all the time from pulpits, in classrooms, and especially at funerals.

One of the pillars of the Babylonian deceptions is a false understanding of death, which, centered on the idea of the immortality of the soul, prepares the way for the harmful influence of spiritualism. If you believe the dead live on in some form and might even be able to communicate with us, what protection do you have from any of the other countless deceptions Satan has? If you thought your dead mother or child had suddenly appeared and talked to you, how easy would it be to be fooled by your senses? This has happened in the past, it happens now, and it will certainly, as we near the very final days, continue to happen. Our only protection is to stand firmly rooted in what the Bible teaches and to cling to the biblical teaching that death is a sleep until the second coming of Jesus.

Journal:

`What examples of modern spiritualism exist in your culture today?`

`How is firm adherence to the Word of God our only protection? Though this may seem obvious, why?`

` `