---
title:  Scripture Before Sun Worship
date:  29/05/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Sun worship was a prominent practice in Egypt, Assyria, and Persia. The practice was popular in Babylon as well, as James G. Frazer observes in his book The Worship of Nature: “In ancient Babylonia the sun was worshipped from immemorial antiquity” ([London: Macmillan and Co., 1926], vol. 1, 529). It may seem surprising, but at times Babylonian sun worship influenced the worship of God’s people in the Old Testament. For example, the prophet Ezekiel, a contemporary of Daniel’s, depicted some of God’s people standing with their backs toward the temple of God worshiping the sun in the east (Ezek. 8:16; 2 Ki. 23:5, 11). Instead of worshiping the Creator of the sun, they worshiped the sun itself.

In Revelation 17 John describes a time when the principles of Babylon, including sun worship, would enter the Christian church in an age of compromise. This was realized during the reign of Constantine in the early part of the fourth century, whose casual conversion caused great joy in the Roman Empire. Constantine had a strong affinity for sun worship, documented by Edward Gibbon, the renowned historian: “The Sun was universally celebrated as the invincible guide and protector of Constantine” (The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire [London: J. O. Robinson & Co, Ltd., 1830], 12). In a.d. 321 Constantine also passed the first “Sunday law.” This edict stated, “On the venerable day of the Sun let the Magistrates and the people residing in the cities rest, and let all workshops be closed” (Edict of Constantine). This was not a law enforcing Sunday observance for all of Constantine’s subjects, but it did strengthen the observance of Sunday in the minds of the Roman population.

It was in succeeding decades that emperors and popes continued through state decrees and church councils to establish Sunday as the singular day of worship, which it remains for the majority of Christians today. What a powerful example of the hard truth that just because most people believe in something or practice it, it is not necessarily right.

Here is a remarkable statement by Edward T. Hiscox, the author of the Standard Manual for Baptist Churches. In 1893 he addressed a group of hundreds of Baptist ministers and shocked them as he explained how Sunday came into the Christian church: “What a pity that it [Sunday] comes branded with the mark of paganism, and christened with the name of the sun god, then adopted and sanctioned by the papal apostasy, and bequeathed as a sacred legacy to Protestantism!” (Edward Hiscox, before a New York ministers’ conference, Nov. 13, 1893).

The message of the second angel in Revelation 14 is “Babylon is fallen, is fallen” (verse 8). In Revelation 17 the woman identified as spiritual Babylon, dressed in purple and scarlet, rides upon a scarlet-colored beast, passes around her wine cup, and gets the world drunk with error. Church and state unite. Falsehood prevails. Demons work their miracles to deceive. The world catapults into its final conflict.

At the same time, the people of God are maligned, ridiculed, oppressed, and persecuted, but in Christ and through the power of His Holy Spirit they are steadfast in their commitment. All the powers of hell and forces of evil cannot break their loyalty to Christ. They are secure in Him. He is their “refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble” (Ps. 46:1).

Ezekiel 20:1–20 is an earnest appeal for Israel to forsake pagan practices and to worship the Creator instead of their false gods, in this passage called the “idols of Egypt.” In the message of the three angels, God is making a similar appeal to “worship the Creator,” for “Babylon is fallen.” God is calling an end-time people back to faithfulness to His Word. The Sabbath and our faithfulness to it will play a crucial role in the final events. Jesus prayed, “Sanctify them by Your truth. Your word is truth” (John 17:17). The truth of God’s Word, not human opinion or tradition, is the spiritual North Star that will guide us in this critical hour of earth’s history.

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`What lessons can we take away for ourselves from what has been written in Ezekiel 20:1–20? (See also 1 Cor. 10:11.)`

` `