---
title:  Grace for Obedience
date:  31/05/2023
---

#### inVite

The woman dressed in scarlet and purple, riding on the scarlet-covered beast, has passed around her wine cup, and the world is drunk with Babylon’s false doctrines (Rev. 17). Speaking of the “wine of Babylon,” Ellen G. White makes this clear comment: “What is that wine? Her false doctrines. She has given to the world a false Sabbath instead of the Sabbath of the fourth commandment, and has repeated the falsehood that Satan first told to Eve in Eden—the natural immortality of the soul” (in Review and Herald, Dec. 6, 1892). These erroneous teachings have deceived millions. As a result, God is giving His people, still entrenched in error, a final last-day appeal to return to Him.

As we already have seen (but what is worth repeating), many of God’s people are in religious organizations that have compromised biblical teachings. They do not understand the truths of Scripture. God’s loving appeal is straightforward: “Come out of her, my people, lest you share in her sins, and lest you receive of her plagues” (Rev. 18:4).

Sin is the transgression or the breaking of God’s law. The only way anyone can obey the law is through faith in the power of the living Christ. We are weak, frail, faltering, sinful human beings, but by faith when we accept Christ, His grace atones for our past and empowers our present. He gives us “grace and apostleship, for obedience” (Rom. 1:5). Heaven’s appeal to the people in churches that do not respect and obey the law of God is to step out by faith. His appeal to Adventists in Sabbathkeeping congregations is to forsake all self-centered, human attempts at obedience and live godly lives by faith in the grace of Christ, which delivers us from sin’s condemnation and domination. And just as Israel’s faithfulness to the law (Deut. 4:6) would have been a powerful witness to the world, our faithfulness, too, can be a powerful witness and can help guide people out of Babylon.

“Babylon the great” in the book of Revelation designates, in a special sense, the united apostate religions at the close of time. . . . “Babylon the great” is the name by which Inspiration refers to the great threefold religious union of the papacy, apostate Protestantism, and spiritism. . .  .  The term “Babylon” refers to the organizations themselves and to their leaders, not so much to the members as such. The latter are referred to as “many waters” (Rev. 17:1, 15)” (The SDA Bible Commentary, vol. 7, pp. 851, 852).

Journal:

`Meditate on this week’s passage again and look for where Jesus is.`

`How does 1 John 3:4 harmonize with Romans 14:23, especially in their definitions of sin?`

`To you personally, how is Jesus the answer to your faithlessness?`

` `