---
title:  The Person of Peter
date:   25/03/2017
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Luke 5:1–11; Matt. 16:13–17; Matt. 14:22–33; Luke 22:31–34, 54–62; Gal. 2:9, 11–14. 

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “But when he saw that the wind was boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink he cried out, saying, ‘Lord, save me!’ And immediately Jesus stretched out His hand and caught him, and said to him, ‘O you of little faith, why did you doubt?’ ” (Matthew 14:30, 31, NKJV).  

Peter is the author of the two books (1 and 2 Peter) that bear his name. He was one of the early followers of Jesus. He remained with Jesus during the Lord’s ministry here, and he was one of the first disciples to see the empty tomb. As a result, Peter had a wealth of experiences from which, inspired by the Holy Spirit, he could draw in order to write these powerful letters. “For we did not follow cleverly devised tales when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of His majesty” (2 Pet. 1:16, NASB).

Peter appears often in the Gospels, revealing both his triumphs and failures. He was the usual spokesperson of the disciples in their interactions with Jesus. After the Resurrection and Ascension, Peter became a prominent early church leader. The book of Acts talks about him, as does the book of Galatians. 

Most important, Peter knew what it was to make mistakes, to be forgiven, and to move forward in faith and humility. Having experienced for himself the grace of God, he remains a powerful voice for all of us who need to experience that same grace, as well.

_* Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, April 1._