---
title:  Continuing Upstream
date:  04/08/2018
---

**Introduction**: Luke 5:19; Acts 11:17

Imagine that you observe a group of fishermen down at the river one day. The fishermen soon notice a person caught in the current, struggling to swim and gasping for air. They work together to bring the person to shore, only to become overwhelmed by a number of other people needing to be rescued. While they are able to save some lives, some people are lost. Finally, one of the fishermen decides to walk upstream to see why people are falling into the river. As the fisherman goes upstream, he sees that as people come to the river to admire the view, they fall in because there is no barrier. The fisherman decides that building a fence to prevent people from falling in is the best solution. This public health parable that I’ve heard many times in my classes emphasizes the impact that preventative measures can have on the health and well-being of people.

The fishermen in this parable remind me of the disciples who accepted the call of the Holy Spirit. I imagine that the “waters” that the disciples entered when they brought the gospel to the world were not always smooth. Herod’s violence toward the church was clear: “He killed James the brother of John with the sword. And because he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to take Peter also” (Acts 12:2, 3). In spite of their pain and loss, they continued forward under the leading of the Holy Spirit.

In this parable the fisherman who walked upstream reminds me of the men who sought to bring the paralyzed man to Jesus. “When they could not find how they might bring him in, . . . they went up on the housetop and let him down with his bed through the tiling into the midst before Jesus” (Luke 5:19, NKJV). I can envision these men, similar to the fisherman who walked upstream, brainstorming how they might bring the paralytic before Jesus. Like the fisherman in the parable, they decided to go up.

What can we learn from this parable and the disciples’ ministry? You may find that you resonate with the fisherman who went upstream or with the men who had great faith and went up to the roof. Perhaps you may feel like the person in the river needing to be rescued or like the paralytic man who needed to be healed. Despite our differences and where we are in life, the Holy Spirit is at work, healing and blessing us with gifts and testimonies to share. As Peter said, “ ‘So if God gave them the same gift he gave us who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I to think that I could stand in God’s way?’ ” (Acts 11:17, NIV).

_Michelle Gordon, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA_