---
title:  Peter’s Prejudice Dissolved
date:  05/08/2018
---

**Evidence**: Acts 10:9–16

The book of Acts shows us the life-changing power of the gospel. We can praise God because He overcame the ethnic and cultural segregation in the early church. Those born outside of Israelite blood, the Gentiles, were restrictedin their worship of God and relations with the Jewish people because they were believed to be spiritually unclean. For a righteous Jew to have contact with them would result in the need to be purified before he could again present himself before the Lord. Gentiles could participate in worship at the temple in Jerusalem, but a soreg (Hebrew), or three- to five-foot tall “wall of separation” (Eph. 2:14, NKJV), had been built, limiting them to the outermost part of the temple courtyard. Signs posted in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin warned any non- Jew that death was the penalty for going any farther.*

Just as Paul needed a revelation to understand how non-Jews fit into God’s plan (cf. Eph. 3:1–7), Peter did as well (Acts 10). At first he would have denied healing to Cornelius, a Roman centurion, who was instructed by God to seek him out. Peter had been taught that it was unlawful “ ‘for a Jewish man to keep company with or go to one of another nation’ ” (verse 28, NKJV), but through God’s intervention, he was persuaded to believe otherwise. A study of the symbols used in the vision—the animals, the linen sheet, and its four corners— shows us that God covers all nations, tribes, tongues, and peoples with His robe of righteousness, not just the Jews. As Paul says in Ephesians 2:13, those “who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ” (NKJV). Peter’s charge now was to “rise . . . ; kill and eat” (Acts 10:7)—or to go out and conquer the hearts of people with the gospel (cf. Isa. 61:10; Jer. 49:36; Dan. 7:5, 23).

By Peter responding in faith to this vision, new doors were opened, and Jesus entered the hearts of Cornelius and all in his house through the Holy Spirit. Peter then related his experience to the Jewish believers in Jerusalem and showed them that “God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance to life” (Acts 11:18, NKJV).

**React**

`1. What would you say to someone who believes that only people of certain ethnicities, cultures, or nationalities can be saved?`

`2. How does the death of Jesus on the cross make everyone equal?`

_Andrew Carroll, Allentown, Pennsylvania, USA_