---
title:  Insiders and Outsiders
date:  06/08/2018
---

**Logos**: Luke 5:17–26; Acts 10:9–16, 34, 35; Gal. 3:28

**The Implications of Jesus’ Ministry (Luke 1:1–4; Acts 10:34, 35)**

The Gospel of Luke was written by Luke, a physician, who evidences his profession in the way he presents the life of Jesus. Luke writes in a very sequential, though not necessarily chronological, manner. His presentation of Jesus’ life is very well-researched and has extremely strategic implications. From the beginning, Luke tells us that he writes “so that . . . [we] may know the certainty of the things about which . . . [we] have been instructed.” (Luke 1:4, HCSB).

The main message of the Gospel of Luke is the heart of Jesus’ ministry.

First, Luke is writing to Theophilus. His name is Greek for “friend of God,” which implies that he is most likely a Gentile Christian. Jesus’ gospel is for everyone. There is no longer a barrier that designates “insiders” and “outsiders.” Jesus’ well-known fellowship with “sinners” reveals the gospel that Jesus came to usher in—one of grace.

The Pharisees and teachers of the law stressed distinctions among people; the gospel eradicates those distinctions by showing us that Jesus came to make everyone insiders. Being a friend of God means fellowship with Jesus, and fellowship with Jesus obliterates social and religious hierarchy. Jesus redefines insiders and outsiders. For the Pharisees and teachers of the law, insiders were those who were of Jewish heritage, had social prestige, and, for whatever reason, fell within the bounds of their endorsement. For Jesus, however, insiders include those who are oppressed and marginalized by society at large.

Those who recognize their need for Jesus and, subsequently, follow His will are insiders. “God is not one to show partiality, but in every nation the man who fears Him and does what is right is welcome to Him” (Acts 10:34, 35, NASB).

For Jesus, outsiders are those who possess pride and self-righteousness:

those who come to God with a confidence that their sanctification is already finished before Jesus has declared that “it is finished.”

**The Practicality of Jesus’ Ministry (Luke 5:17–26)**

In the healing of the paralytic, Luke emphasizes the main ingredient for being an insider: faith. When Jesus declares the sins of the paralytic forgiven, there is a startling revelation: Jesus commends the faith of the friends, not the faith of the man. What did the friends do that was so laudable? They were determined to get to Jesus, in spite of the obstacles.

The first obstacle was the crowd. Thus far, in the Gospel of Luke, the crowds are either rejecting Jesus or are seeking His compassion. They are amazed by Jesus because of what He is able to do: His miracles and authoritative teaching are the end, as opposed to a means to the end—Jesus Himself. Being around Jesus is not synonymous with being with Jesus. The crowd was amazed at the teaching and healing power of Jesus but did not respond in discipleship to Jesus. The men, on the other hand, acted in accordance with their faith in Jesus. Faith removes anything that stands in the way to Jesus.

Luke, then, immediately juxtaposes the faith of the men with the cynicism of the scribes and Pharisees. In doing so, he underscores the focus of Jesus; Jesus is focused on the heart—the intentions behind our actions. The hearts of the men showed their unrelenting faith in Jesus, in spite of what others would think of them; the hearts of the Pharisees and scribes showed a gross miscalculation of Jesus’ ministry and their glaring sense of self-righteousness.

Jesus is God. His authority comes from who He is. The Greek word for authority is exousia, which means the power to act, particularly a moral power to act and influence. The same word is used to describe Jesus’ authority in His teaching and commanding of the unclean spirit to leave the man in Luke 4:31–37. Luke is revealing two instrumental things: Jesus is God. And because Jesus is God, He doesn’t merely deal with our physical ailments; He addresses our spiritual ailments as well. Jesus isn’t focused on our social privilege; He is focused on our need for His grace. Anyone who recognizes this need and, consequently, acts in unyielding faith becomes a friend of God.

**The Results of Jesus’ Ministry (Acts 10:9–16; Titus 2:11; Gal. 3:28)**

As a result of Jesus’ ministry, salvation is available to all people (Titus 2:11). Jesus’ own disciple Peter was given a reminder of this truth when he fell into a trance in Acts 10. God showed him that salvation extends beyond any boundary

that we may erect. Jewish males had a custom of praying, “Lord, thank you that I am not a Gentile, a slave, or a woman.” Those were the outsiders. However, with the death and resurrection of Jesus, “there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female; for . . . [we] are all one in Christ Jesus” (Gal. 3:28, NKJV).

Although Peter had been with Jesus for three and a half years, he still cherished certain prejudices that were in direct opposition to Christ’s teaching.

Nonetheless, the grace of God was provided to show him the way. God showed Peter that, in the kingdom of God, faith in the work of Christ is all that matters.

**React**

`1. What sometimes hinders you from sharing the gospel and your testimony with those unlike you?`

`2. What societal plagues exist that erect barriers which present a challenge to the gospel? How do we deal with them?`

_Manushka Gracia-Desgage, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, USA_