---
title:  Get Back Up!
date:  07/08/2018
---

**Testimony**: Acts 12:11

As Christians, we are tested to see how firmly our faith is grounded in Jesus. We are pushed by temptations and tossed by disaster to reveal our true character based on how we handle those situations. We live in an era when everything is driven by the media, and we sometimes feel the need to meet society’s expectations by trying to compete and conform to earthly things ratherthan clinging to the heavenly promises of our Father. When we stand firm in God, He reveals Himself and can turn our test into a divine testimony. “God tests and proves us by the common occurrences of life. It is the little things which reveal the chapters of the heart.”1

We prove our love by how steadfast we stand when faced with temptations and trials, and we yield the ultimate gift, which is the testimony we gather from the experience. “As Christ’s earthly ministry drew to a close, and He realized that He must soon leave His disciples to carry on the work without His personal supervision, He sought to encourage them and to prepare them for the future.

He did not deceive them with false hopes. As an open book He read what was to be. He knew He was about to be separated from them, to leave them as sheep among wolves. He knew that they would suffer persecution, that they would be cast out of the synagogues, and would be thrown into prison. He knew that for witnessing to Him as the Messiah, some of them would suffer death. And something of this He told them. In speaking of their future, He was plain and definite, that in their coming trial they might remember His words and be strengthened to believe in Him as the Redeemer.”2

Just as God had confidence in the disciples, so He does in us. We, too, will face trials, and our hearts will be tried to see how firm we will stand in his Word. God wants us to depend on Him when faced with calamity, and we, like Peter, can be certain that He will deliver us (Acts 12:11). Instead of losing hope, God hopes we would be willing to get back up because He will be standing right there to give us the push we need and His love is sufficient to help pick us up.

**React**

`What do the disciples teach us about testimony and patience when we trust God and allow Him to fight our battles?`

_Love Malomeni Asante, Woodbridge, Virginia, USA_