---
title:  Christ, Lord of All
date:  08/08/2018
---

**How-to**: Acts 10:34, 35

The early church grew by leaps and bounds, from 120 believers (Acts 1:15) to more than 5,000 (Acts 4:4) in a very short time. Up until this point, the ministry of Peter primarily focused on the Jewish population (whereas Paul’s focused on the Gentiles), but Christ commanded the disciples to take His message “to the ends of the earth” (Acts 1:8, NIV; see also Mark 16:15). In order to accomplish this, Peter would have to “branch out” to the Gentiles, a call he was not expecting.

Even though we can now see why Peter was chosen by Christ to lead this mission, it does not mean that it was that clear or easy for him at the time.

Peter’s prior humbling and redemptive experiences with Christ would ensure that he maintained the necessary connection, trust, and willing heart to be used in such a powerful way by God. Let’s look at Peter’s process in Acts 8–10 that allowed him to reach the point of understanding and action, which God intended for him.

Connection to the Spirit. The connection to the Spirit allowed him to be led by God in all areas. Whether it was to remember to pray, answer a call for help, obey a direction (Acts 10:19), receive a vision, or recount truth to critics and doubters (Acts 10:34–48), certainly the Holy Spirit was his guide.

Fervent prayer. Peter would pray for new believers, pray for the Holy Spirit, pray for the sick (Aeneas, Tabitha, etc.), and pray in times of uncertainty. At every point of prayer, a victory was soon following!

Humility and flexibility. When he was called on for help, he responded; when given instruction by God, he obeyed; when met with critics and skeptics, he simply remained humble, letting the Holy Spirit do the “work” in the listeners.

As a result of Peter’s connection to the Holy Spirit, humility and obedience to God, and courage to face adversity among people, many were baptized into the body of Christ, which is now a body of believers across the earth. “For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same Lord is Lord of all, abounding in riches for all who call on Him” (Romans 10:12, NASB).

**React**

`1. What seems to be the modern-day equivalent of Jews versus Gentiles?`

`2. What do you think Peter would say or do in response to the current barriers that Christians face in trying to reach different nations at the ends of the earth?`

_Marissa Smale, Clifton Heights, Pennsylvania, USA_