---
title:  It Is Time
date:  09/08/2018
---

**Opinion**: Acts 10:9–16, 28

You are invited to a party. You get ready and show up, only to find that none of your friends are there; even worse, nobody from your friend group is present. You try to talk to other guests, but they act as if you are nobody.

They do not care to meet you or understand who you are. You try to talk to the party host, but the host brushes you off, telling you they have to attend to all the party guests so cannot spend time on your concerns. Have you ever felt this way—like an outsider? It’s not a great feeling.

“The other” to the Jews were the Gentiles—anybody who was not Jewish was considered to be a Gentile. The relationship between groups was tenuous, the Jews holding prejudices against Gentiles. Gentiles were “unclean,” and it was believed that the gospel of Jesus did not apply to them, a mindset developed from an extensive history of segregation (Deut. 18:9; Luke 10:29–37; John 4:9; Gal. 2:15; Eph. 2:11, 12).

However, Peter’s vision challenged these biased views. On the surface, this passage can be interpreted as a statement on dietary restrictions, but Peter’s vision proves to be a metaphor, God using a symbolic visual to prepare Peter to evangelize to Cornelius (Acts 10:1–24). How might Peter’s ministry have been affected by his prejudices had God not revealed how wrong he was?

It is important for us as believers to often undertake personal, critical reflection. It can be easy for us to adopt negative “isms,” such as racism, sexism, and classism. How often do we let our own prejudices interfere with our ability to minister to those who do not know Jesus Christ? Also, how might these prejudices affect our ability to relate to fellow believers? How often do we use language and behave in a way that silences the real experience of discrimination against those around us when they speak out about the realities of their lives? How many people have missed out on the gospel because of our negative misconceptions about them?

It is on us to recognize our own prejudices and how they are impacting the spread of the gospel. We must constantly work to unlearn our biases and focus on learning to take on the character of our Savior.

**React**

`As Christians we ought to strive to be representatives of Christ. How can our own biases, be they racial, gender, or class, influence how others may come to Christ?`

_Krissy Wint, Doylestown, Pennsylvania, USA_