---
title:  God Shows No Partiality
date:  10/08/2018
---

**Exploration**: Gal. 3:26–28

**Conclude**

During the genesis of the early Christian church, the gospel of Jesus Christ was spreading like wildfire within the Jewish nation and among the Gentiles. As a result, many disciples and Christians were persecuted and put to death under King Herod’s reign. In addition, preaching the gospel to the Gentiles became a controversial topic within the early church. However, God had to remind the church, through the apostle Peter, that no one is too common or unclean to receive the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ because we all are saved by faith.

**Consider**

- Writing and performing a short play (approximately 5 to 10 minutes) focusing on God’s impartiality in saving humanity.

- Looking up the word impartial in a thesaurus. Make a list of synonyms for the word impartial. Then use the synonyms to fill in this sentence: “God is__________.”

- Discussing with your Sabbath School class the following questions: If God were not impartial, who, do you think, would or should not have access to salvation? How do your answers reaffirm that God’s impartiality demonstrates His unconditional love for the human race?

- Listening to “I Feel Like Going On” by the Kuumba Singers of Harvard College on YouTube (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k9z9qMTTVbM), paying close attention to the lyrics “Though trials come on every hand, I feel like going on.”

- Taking some time during your daily prayers to intercede for those who are being persecuted for their faith.

- Drawing a picture depicting what persecution based on a person’s faith looks like to you.

**Connect**

Ephesians 2:11–19; Romans 2:11; 10:12; Acts 14.

Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chapter 14, “A Seeker for Truth.”

Rupert Shortt, Christianophobia: A Faith Under Attack.

_Sara Horatius, Boston, Massachusetts, USA_