---
title:  Covenants in History
date:  18/11/2019
---

After the Flood, God began again, now with Noah and the people who came afterward. With them, too, He sought a relationship, and central to that relationship was the idea of covenant. The Bible identifies seven major covenants that God has made with people:

First Covenant—Adam (Genesis 1–3)
Second Covenant—Noah (Genesis 6–9)
Third Covenant—Abraham (Genesis 12:1–3)
Fourth Covenant—Moses and the Israelite nation (known as Sinaitic or Mosaic Covenant; Exodus 19–24)
Fifth Covenant—Phinehas (Num. 25:10–13)
Sixth Covenant—David (2 Sam. 7:5–16)
Seventh Covenant—New Covenant (Jer. 31:31–34)

`Read the following texts. What do they mean by the “everlasting covenant”? Gen. 9:16, Gen. 17:7, Isa. 55:3, Heb. 13:20.`

The Bible incorporates the term “everlasting covenant” 16 times. Out of them, 13 are specifically applied to the covenants with Abraham, Israel at Sinai, and David. Each of the covenants mentioned above, although unique, bore the imprint of “the everlasting covenant.” Just as the everlasting gospel is first announced in Genesis 3:15, but then progressively revealed throughout the Bible, the same applies to the everlasting covenant. Each consecutive covenant serves to expound and deepen our understanding of the everlasting covenant of love, which is revealed most fully in the plan of salvation. The New and Old Covenants, as they are often distinguished, contain the same components.

`Sanctification: “I will put My law in their minds, and write it on their hearts” (Jer. 31:33, NKJV; compare Heb. 8:10).`

`Reconciliation: “I will be their God, and they shall be My people” (Jer. 31:33, NKJV; Heb. 8:10).`

`Mission: “No more shall every man teach his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, ‘Know the Lord,’ for they all shall know Me, from the least of them to the greatest of them” (Jer. 31:34, NKJV; Heb. 8:11).`

`Justification: “I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more” (Jer. 31:34, NKJV; Heb. 8:12).`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Some time ago, we were favored with a view of the most glorious rainbow we ever beheld. We have often visited galleries of art, and have admired the skill displayed by the artist in paintings representing God’s great bow of promise. But here we saw the varied tints—crimson, purple, blue, green, silver, and golden, all perfectly blended by the great Master Artist. . . . 

. . . God Himself looks upon the bow in the clouds, and remembers His everlasting covenant between Himself and man. . . . The bow represents Christ’s love which encircles the earth, and reaches unto the highest heavens, connecting men with God, and linking earth with heaven. 

As we gaze upon the beautiful sight, we may be joyful in God, assured that He Himself is looking upon this token of His covenant, and that as He looks upon it He remembers the children of earth, to whom it was given. Their afflictions, perils, and trials are not hidden from Him. We may rejoice in hope, for the bow of God’s covenant is over us. He never will forget the children of His care. How difficult for the mind of finite man to take in the peculiar love and tenderness of God, and His matchless condescension when He said, “I will look upon the bow in the cloud, and remember thee.”—_Our High Calling_, p. 314.

The covenant with Abraham also maintained the authority of God’s law. The Lord appeared unto Abraham, and said, “I am the Almighty God; walk before me, and be thou perfect” (Genesis 17:1). The testimony of God concerning His faithful servant was, “Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws” (Genesis 26:5).

Though this covenant was made with Adam and renewed to Abraham, it could not be ratified until the death of Christ. It had existed by the promise of God since the first intimation of redemption had been given; it had been accepted by faith; yet when ratified by Christ, it is called a new covenant. The law of God was the basis of this covenant, which was simply an arrangement for bringing men again into harmony with the divine will, placing them where they could obey God’s law.—_God’s Amazing Grace_, p. 133. 

Christ Himself was the originator of the Jewish system of worship, in which, by types and symbols, were shadowed forth spiritual and heavenly things. Many forgot the true significance of these offerings; and the great truth that through Christ alone there is forgiveness of sin, was lost to them. The multiplying of sacrificial offerings, the blood of bulls and goats, could not take away sin. . . . 

 . . . The atonement of Christ sealed forever the everlasting covenant of grace. It was the fulfilling of every condition upon which God suspended the free communication of grace to the human family. Every barrier was then broken down which intercepted the freest exercise of grace, mercy, peace, and love to the most guilty of Adam’s race.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 7, p. 933. 