---
title:  Covenantal Structure
date:  19/11/2019
---

Bible scholars recognize that there is a typical structure to biblical covenants; this was seen even in covenants made by the ancient Hittites. That is, God communicated to the people in a manner that they, in their culture, could especially understand.

The covenants that were common during the time of ancient Israel had the following parts: preamble (who God is); historical prologue (past relationship defined); stipulations or laws; blessings and curses; witnesses; special provision or sign of the covenant. Thus, it should be no surprise that God used something similar in communicating to His people back then. He used what they were familiar with.

For example, the whole book of Deuteronomy is written in the form of a covenant, because Moses invites God’s people to enter into a new covenant relationship with their God. It expresses the covenant in the following manner: (1) preamble (Deut. 1:1–5); (2) historical prologue (Deut. 1:6–4:43); (3) stipulations or laws (Deut. 4:44–26:19); (4) blessings and curses (Deuteronomy 27–30); (5) witnesses (Deut. 30:19); and finally, (6) special provision (Deut. 31:9–13).

`Read Joshua 24. How is this covenant pattern revealed in that chapter, as well?`

The same is true with the renewal of the covenant made by Joshua. First, a preamble is mentioned in which God presents Himself as “the Lord, the God of Israel” (Josh. 24:2, NIV). Then follows a long historical prologue through which Joshua reminds the people of what God has done for them in the past (Josh. 24:2–13). After this history, the stipulations or laws are enumerated (Josh. 24:14, 15, 23), blessings and curses are mentioned (Josh. 24:19, 20), witnesses identified (Josh. 24:22, 27), and special provision stated (Josh. 24:25, 26). Here, too, the basic form of a covenant was used to communicate with the Israelites and show them, not only God’s leading in their past, but what was required of them to uphold their end of the covenant.

`Read Joshua 24:15. What principle is here that we can apply to ourselves today?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Israel of God must arise and renew their strength in God by renewing and keeping their covenant with Him. Covetousness, selfishness, love of money, and love of the world, are all through the ranks of Sabbathkeepers. These evils are destroying the spirit of sacrifice among God’s people. Those that have this covetousness in their hearts are not aware of it. It has gained upon them imperceptibly, and unless it is rooted out, their destruction will be as sure as was Achan’s. Many have taken the sacrifice from God’s altar. They love the world, love its gain and increase, and, unless there is an entire change in them, they will perish with the world. God has lent them means; it is not their own, but God has made them His stewards. And because of this, they call it their own and hoard it up. But, oh, how quick, when the prospering hand of God is removed from them, it is all snatched away in a moment! There must be a sacrificing for God, a denying of self for the truth’s sake.—_Testimonies for the Church_, vol. 1, p. 140.

[Joshua] was a wise leader. His life was wholly devoted to God. Before he died he assembled the Hebrew host, and, following the example of Moses, he recapitulated their travels in the wilderness and also the merciful dealings of God with them. He then eloquently addressed them. . . . “And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you will serve; whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. 

“And the people answered and said, God forbid that we should forsake the Lord, to serve other gods; for the Lord our God, He it is that brought us up and our fathers out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage, and which did those great signs in our sight, and preserved us in all the way wherein we went, and among all the people through whom we passed.”  

The people renewed their covenant with Joshua. They said unto him, “The Lord our God will we serve, and His voice will we obey.” Joshua wrote the words of their covenant in the book containing the laws and statutes given to Moses. Joshua was loved and respected by all Israel, and his death was much lamented by them.—_The Story of Redemption_, pp. 181, 182.

God has given us the power of choice; it is ours to exercise. We cannot change our hearts, we cannot control our thoughts, our impulses, our affections. We cannot make ourselves pure, fit for God’s service. But we can _choose_ to serve God, we can give Him our will; then He will work in us to will and to do according to His good pleasure. Thus our whole nature will be brought under the control of Christ.—_The Ministry of Healing_, p. 176. 