---
title:  Further Thought
date:  26/12/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Last Words of Joshua,” pp. 522–524, in Patriarchs and Prophets.

“Among the multitudes that came up out of Egypt were many who had been worshipers of idols; and such is the power of habit that the practice was secretly continued, to some extent, even after the settlement in Canaan. Joshua was sensible of this evil among the Israelites, and he clearly perceived the dangers that would result. He earnestly desired to see a thorough reformation among the Hebrew host. He knew that unless the people took a decided stand to serve the Lord with all their hearts, they would continue to separate themselves farther and farther from Him. . . . While a portion of the Hebrew host were spiritual worshipers, many were mere formalists; no zeal or earnestness characterized their service. Some were idolators at heart, who would be ashamed to acknowledge themselves as such.”—Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, May 19, 1881.

“This solemn covenant was recorded in the book of the law, to be sacredly preserved. Joshua then set up a great stone under an oak that was by the sanctuary of the Lord. ‘And Joshua said unto all the people, Behold this stone shall be a witness unto us; for it hath heard all the words of the Lord which he spake unto us: it shall be therefore a witness unto you, lest ye deny your God.’ Here Joshua plainly declares that his instructions and warnings to the people were not his own words, but the words of God. This great stone would stand to testify to succeeding generations of the event which it was set up to commemorate, and would be a witness against the people, should they ever again degenerate into idolatry.”—Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, May 26, 1881.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Discuss the meaning of the expression: “He [the Lord] is a holy God. He is a jealous God” (Josh. 24:19, NKJV). In what sense is God a jealous God?`

`How is our love for God connected to the freedom of choice that He grants us? That is, could we truly love if we didn’t truly have freedom? Can true love ever be forced? If not, why not?`

`What are some practical ways that leaders of the church today can pass on the torch to the next generation?`

`Think about the life of Joshua and the conclusion that in all his life the Israelites served the Lord. What conclusion would you like people to draw about your life?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In Heavenly Places, “The Heavenly Father’s Claim,” May 1, p. 128.\
That I May Know Him, “A Message for Boys and Girls,” February 4, p. 41.\