---
title:  Isaiah’s Words Come True 
date:  17/01/2021
---

Last week, we saw that Immanuel is a name for Jesus. At the same time, Immanuel may have been a real person who lived in Isaiah’s time too. In Isaiah 7:14–16, Immanuel is a sign connected to Ahaz’s problem: “ ‘before the boy [Immanuel] knows to turn away from what is bad and choose good, the land whose two kings you are afraid of will be left empty’ ” (Isaiah 7:16, NLV). The two kings are the kings of Syria and northern Israel (Isaiah 7:1, 2, 4–9).

`Why does Isaiah say that Immanuel will eat “ ‘milk curds [thick, sour milk] and honey’ ” (Isaiah 7:15, ERV)?`

The Assyrians will destroy Judah’s crops (Isaiah 7:23–25). So, the people and the Old Testament Immanuel (Isaiah 7:14, 15) will be forced to eat what poor people eat. But they’ll have enough to stay alive (Isaiah 7:21, 22).

`When does Isaiah’s special message about Syria and Israel happen? For the answer, read 2 Kings 15:29, 30; 2 Kings 16:7–9; 1 Chronicles 5:6, 26.`

God gives Isaiah this special message around 734 B.C. After Tiglath-pileser takes the gift of money from Ahaz, Tiglath-pileser does what he wants to do anyway. He beats Israel and Syria. Then Tiglath-pileser sends away some of the people in northern Israel. After that, he makes the land part of his kingdom (734–733 B.C.). The rest of Israel is saved when King Hoshea gives Tiglath-pileser money and agrees to serve him. Just before that, Hoshea murders King Pekah. In 733 and 732 B.C., Tiglath-pileser takes control of Damascus, Syria’s capital. Then he makes Syria part of his kingdom. So, by 732 B.C., nearly two years after Isaiah’s special message, Syria and Israel are beaten.

Soon after, in 727 B.C., Shalmaneser V takes Tiglath-pileser the Third’s place. King Hoshea of Israel then does something very stupid that destroys his country. He fights against Assyria. The Assyrians take Samaria, Israel’s capital, in 722 B.C. They send thousands of Israelites away. The Israelites become part of the local people in Media and Mesoptamia. The Israelites no longer are a people (read Isaiah 7:8). God shows Isaiah what will happen to the enemies of Judah. That is why Ahaz should not have worried. He should not have asked Assyria for help.