---
title:  Knowing Ahead Of Time What Will Happen 
date:  18/01/2021
---

`Read Isaiah 7:17–25. As these verses show, what is the Lord saying will happen to the land? Why should we not be surprised at this news?`

“God sent invitation after invitation to Israel to come back to Him. God’s special messengers, the prophets, asked Israel in a loving and tender way to be loyal to God. The prophets asked the people to turn away from sin and to change their lives. Their words touched hearts.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 325, adapted.

So, for Ahaz, the good news from God is that Syria and Israel will be wiped out. But Ahaz is a man of fear, not faith. He chooses the wrong “friend to help him. So, the bad news is that Judah will be in far more danger from Assyria than they were from Syria and Israel. When Ahaz turns down God’s offer to save Judah, Ahaz will lose the war. Ahaz may think his country is falling apart now. But things are going to get worse!

“It is better to go to the LORD for safety than to trust in human leaders” (Psalm 118:9, NIrV). How can Ahaz trust that Tiglath-pileser will be happy with taking only the countries to the north and leaving Judah alone? Assyrian writings show that the Assyrian kings had a deep “thirst” for power. The power they had was never enough. They always wanted more.

`Read 2 Kings 16:10–18 and 2 Chronicles 28:20–25. As these verses show, what is happening to Ahaz? What important spiritual rule do we see happening here? Why should we not be surprised at what he does?`

2 Chronicles 28:20–23 show us in a powerful way what happens because Ahaz asks for help from Assyria and does not trust the Lord.

`It is natural for us to trust in what we can see, feel, taste, and touch: the things on this earth. But as we know, the things on this earth will disappear. Look at 2 Corinthians 4:18. What is this verse saying to us? How can we follow this message in our own lives? How will it make our lives different if we do?`