---
title:  What’s In A Name? 
date:  19/01/2021
---

Try to make a picture in your mind of playing a ball game with Isaiah’s second boy. By the time you can say “Maher-shalal-hash-baz, throw me the ball!” it will be too late. But the meaning of his name is longer: “work fast to take away riches, move fast to take the goods by force.”

`The message of Maher-shalal-hash-baz’s name shows us that someone will beat someone else very fast. But who wins? Who is beaten? For the answer, read Isaiah 8:4.`

Isaiah 8:1–10 makes the message in chapter 7 stronger. Before a child can grow up, Assyria will rob the capitals of Syria and northern Israel. As we saw, Judah refuses God’s offer to protect them. This offer is shown by the word picture of flowing waters from the Shiloah stream in Jerusalem. So, Judah will be beaten by the mighty power of Assyria. The Euphrates River during a flood is the word picture that the Bible uses to show Assyria.

Because Ahaz turns to Assyria, the names of Isaiah’s sons help us to see what will happen to Judah and to northern Israel. The meaning of their names are: (1) “work fast to take away riches, move fast to take the goods by force” and (2) “a small group of people shall come back.” The second name shows that there is hope for Judah. Yes, Assyria will fill the land of Immanuel (Isaiah 8:8), a word picture for Judah. But Judah has the promise that “ ‘God is with us!’ ” (Isaiah 8:10, ERV). This same idea fills the book of Isaiah: God will be with His loyal people. God will judge Judah’s enemies. God will punish them with wars and suffering. He will also send His people to live far away. But then He will bring them back to their land.

`Why does Isaiah write down his son’s name before he is born? For the answer, read Isaiah 8:1–3.`

The time that the son of Isaiah is born is important. His birthday is a sign. The sign shows that Assyria will beat Syria and Israel before the boy will grow old enough to say “papa” or “mama” (Isaiah 8:4). So, Isaiah writes down the boy’s name even before he starts to grow inside his mother’s belly. By doing this, Isaiah shares a public message from God. People can test this message by what happens later on to see if the message is true.