---
title:  We Have Nothing To Fear When We Trust God 
date:  20/01/2021
---

American President Franklin D. Roosevelt told his people during a hard time, “The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.”—U.S. Capitol, Washington, D.C. (March 4, 1933). Isaiah’s message to his people during hard times is: “ ‘The LORD All-Powerful is the one you should fear. He is the one you should respect’ ” (Isaiah 8:13, ERV). In other words, we don’t need to fear anything when we “fear,” or respect, God.

God warns Isaiah not to be afraid of the things that Israel is afraid of. God tells Isaiah to fear, or respect, Him (Isaiah 8:12, 13). This is an important idea in the Bible. We see this same idea in Revelation 14:6–12. In these verses, three angels tell everyone on earth to fear God and give glory to Him, and not the wild land animal in Revelation 13.

`What does the Bible mean when it tells us to “fear” God? Does that mean we should be afraid of Him? How can we “fear” God and, at the same time, love Him as the Bible commands us (Matthew 22:37)?`

What does it mean to “fear” God? It means we believe that God is the most powerful Person alive. If God is for you, no one else can hurt you without His permission. If God is against you because you have turned against Him, then what? You can run from Him, yes. But you can’t hide.

`Does the idea that we should “fear” God disagree with 1 John 4:18: “Where God’s love is, there is no fear, because God’s perfect love takes away fear. It is his punishment that makes a person fear. So his love is not made perfect in the one who has fear”? Explain your answer.`

There are different types of fear. Here’s one example. Let us say you are friends with a very powerful person. You love your friend. You are not afraid of your friend because you know he or she will not hurt you. But you respect this person and the power that he or she has.

`Are there things that we as Christians should not fear that other people are afraid of? If so, what are they? And what things do we as Christians fear that other people do not fear? (Hint: Read Matthew 10:28 and Jeremiah 10:2, 3.)`