---
title:  When People Are Alive In Body But Dead In Spirit 
date:  21/01/2021
---

`Read Isaiah 8:16–22. What are these verses talking about? What does this tell us about King Ahaz? Write down the most important ideas in these verses.`

Ahaz worships false gods and follows false religion (2 Kings 16:3, 4, 10–15; 2 Chronicles 28:2–4, 23–25). This false religion includes the worship of demons (read Deuteronomy 32:17, NLV: “ ‘They gave gifts to demons’ ”; also read 1 Corinthians 10:20). Today, modern witchcraft, or magic, and New Age beliefs are really just modern examples of the magic and witchcraft we read about in Bible times.

Isaiah tells us what happens to us when we turn away from God and trust in spirits. Our hearts fill with fear. We lose hope (Isaiah 8:21, 22). This shows us Ahaz (compare 2 Chronicles 28:22, 23). Isaiah says that the people who turn to spirits become very angry. They curse their king (Isaiah 8:21). What should this tell Ahaz? It should warn him about what the people will do. Ahaz caused his people to worship demons. So, His people will curse him. And look what happens when Ahaz dies. No one has any respect for Ahaz because he is an evil king. So, the people do “not bring him into the graves of the kings of Israel” (2 Chronicles 28:27, NLV).

`Read Leviticus 20:27 and Deuteronomy 18:9–14. What do these verses say about magic and witchcraft?`

We must separate ourselves from anything to do with magic or witchcraft. When we separate from these false beliefs, we show our loyalty to God. 1 Chronicles 10:13, 14 tells us what happened to King Saul because he did not follow this important rule: “So Saul died for his sin against the Lord, because he did not keep the Word [the commandments] of the Lord. He had asked a woman who spoke with spirits what he should do. He did not ask the Lord. So the Lord killed him, and gave the nation [kingdom] to David the son of Jesse” (1 Chronicles 10:13, 14, NLV).

`In what ways do you see the ideas and beliefs from magic and witchcraft in your community? What can you do to protect yourself and your family from the danger?`