---
title:  Further Thought
date:  22/01/2021
---

Read in The Great Controversy, “Can Our Dead Speak to Us?” pages 551–562.

“In Bible times, there are people who say they can talk with the spirits of dead people. Today, there are people who say the same thing. They say these ‘spirits’ are visitors from other planets. But the Bible tells us that these visitors are really demons. (Compare Numbers 25:1–3; Psalm 106:28; 1 Corinthians 10:20; and Revelation 16:14.) God says that He hates it when anyone communicates with demons or spirits. God’s law says that anyone who talks with spirits must be killed. Read Leviticus 19:31 and Leviticus 20:27. Today, people make fun of witchcraft. They don’t think that anyone can really talk with evil spirits. But these same people think it is possible to talk to the spirits of our dead loved ones. This belief is very popular. Many lawmakers and kings believe it too. Even some scientists think we can speak to the dead. There are thousands, yes, millions of people who believe that we can communicate with our dead loved ones. But this ‘new’ belief is a lie. It is really the same old witchcraft, or magic, that the Bible warns us about. The Bible forbids us to have anything to do with it.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 556, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Talk with your class about the belief that some people have today that we can communicate with the dead. How popular is this belief? How does it show up in the movies, books, on TV, and in the life around you? What can we do to stop it? How can we help other people understand the dangers in communicating with the dead? Why is the Bible teaching about what happens when we die so important? How does it protect us against the lie that the dead can talk to us?`

`2.	 Read Isaiah 8:20. Write the verse in your own words. Let different people in class share their verse. What is the Lord telling us here?`

**Summary**: Isaiah’s words, actions, and even his family showed God’s message of warning and hope. As God’s people, we must trust that God knows what He is doing. He will keep us safe when we trust in Him. God has both the love and the power to guide, protect, and take care of us if we let Him. For the people who turn away from God, there is only a sad end.