---
title: The Last Supper
date: 23/11/2024
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 13**

**The Last Supper**

Throughout His ministry, Jesus called people to discipleship. His most ardent followers came from unpromising backgrounds. A woman who had gone through five husbands, a man sick for thirty-eight years, another born blind—these are the people who unhesitatingly followed Jesus. Others with greater knowledge and advantages, such as Nicodemus and the Jewish religious leaders, were slow to believe, and some ultimately rejected Him. Even the Twelve Disciples who formed His innermost circle struggled to fully comprehend and embrace what it meant to be disciples.

As the end of His earthly ministry approached, Jesus focused entirely on preparing that small group for the earth-shattering events soon to come. Aside from His responses during His arrest and trial, Jesus communicated only with His closest followers. Starting in chapter 13, the rest of this Gospel contains Jesus’ final teachings to His disciples and the events of the Passion Week. John’s account of this teaching is complementary to the final chapters of the synoptic Gospels. He added much material not included in the other Gospels but also left out significant events such as Jesus instituting the Lord’s Supper.

Interestingly, John didn’t mention any specific place or time in which Jesus’ teachings occurred between John 13:31 and 17:26. We can assume that most of these teachings were given as Jesus and His disciples walked from the upper room to the Garden of Gethsemane. John’s intentional obscurity regarding the location plus the absence of the Last Supper account may be significant. Freed from any concrete moorings, we can read Jesus’ instructions to His disciples as applying directly to us. Jesus’ words were not just for the original disciples; they are for you and me as well.

Knowing that His end had come, Jesus focused on demonstrating His deep love to His followers (John 13:1). John emphasized the extent of Jesus’ foreknowledge (vv. 1–3)—what the hour was, where He had come from, where He was going, and who was to betray Him. In His last hours, He was determined to give a final, full, and ultimate demonstration of His love.

#### inScribe

As you read through John 13, focus especially on verses 31–35. Rewrite the section in your own words, creating your own paraphrase, or create an outline or a mind map of the verses.

` `