---
title: Washing the Disciples’ Feet
date: 24/11/2024
---

#### inGest

John’s introduction to the foot-washing experience contains several important points (John 13:1–4). As already noted, Jesus loved His disciples “to the end” (v. 1). This phrase can mean either to His final moments or fully, to the uttermost. We benefit from reading both meanings here. In loving the disciples to His own end (the cross), Jesus loved them completely and fully. The decision to love them to the uttermost is placed against the backdrop of the devil’s actions. While John previously named Judas as the betrayer (12:4), he here identified the devil as the instigator of Judas’ actions. Both Jesus and Judas acted out what was in their hearts (13:2). Jesus revealed the Father’s love while Judas manifested Satan’s true nature (8:44).

This conflict was borne out by the disciples’ responses to Jesus’ actions. As He washed their feet, He took on the role of a servant. Though Peter was the spokesperson, he merely expressed what all the disciples were thinking. Lacking understanding, Peter rebelled against Jesus assuming such a demeaning position (John 13:5–10; see also Mark 8:31–33). However, as Mary demonstrated, the willingness to humble oneself is essential to discipleship. Viewed this way, the foot-washing experience brought the disciple within the sphere of Christ’s love. John emphasized that what Jesus did for Peter, He meant for all the disciples. Jesus addressed them all through the plural form of “you” (John 13:10). By extension, He includes us.

The supper was likely arranged around a triclinium table (think of a “U” shape), with the guests sitting along the three outer sides. The inner opening allowed a servant to bring food and remove dishes. Jesus would have gone around the outside of the table, washing each disciple’s feet. Seating Himself once more, He explained the meaning of His actions (vv. 12–17).

The disciples often called Jesus “Teacher” and “Lord” (v. 13). Calling someone a teacher was common in those days; it was the equivalent of a rabbi. Calling somebody “lord,” however, was much less common. “Lord” denoted someone of high status, worthy of reverence. If someone in that position was willing to perform such an act of service, how much more should His followers be willing to do the same! Through this lowly act of washing feet, Jesus illustrated His humility and willingness to serve His disciples. He then instructed them to serve each other in the same way. As the love of Christ transforms us, we move beyond a mere knowledge of what He did for us and begin to joyfully follow His instructions. In response to Christ’s loving service to us, we willingly love and serve one another.

Jesus knew that not all the disciples would follow His example. His complete foreknowledge was again on display. Jesus’ prediction of His betrayal (vv. 18–20) serves as further evidence that Jesus is the I AM of Moses’ day (Exod. 3:14). He is the One David spoke of as being betrayed (Ps. 41:9). Looking back on the supper with the advantage of hindsight, we can see the fulfillment of Christ’s words. This serves as an additional confirmation of Jesus’ divinity.

#### Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 13. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`Why were the disciples resistant to Jesus washing their feet? Can you see this scenario repeating today?`

`How far does service go? Is there ever a point we as Christians should choose not to serve?`