---
title: Judas, Jesus, and the Loved Disciple
date: 25/11/2024
---

#### inTerpret

After sharing the meaning of the foot-washing service, Jesus gave more detail as to how events would unfold. He warned that a false disciple was among them (John 13:10, 18). While Jesus knew of these events beforehand, was fully divine, and was working under God’s timetable, He was still distinctly human. The events to come deeply troubled Him (see 11:33; 12:27).

His insistence that a betrayer was among them caused consternation among the disciples. They were surprised, at a loss for words, and wondered who would or could betray Jesus (13:21, 22). The storyline shifted subtly to Judas. The befuddlement of the disciples shows how well Judas fit into the group. They certainly did not see this coming.

The Gospel focused on the disciples who were sitting closest to Jesus. “Judas pressed next to Christ on the left side; John was on the right. If there was a highest place, Judas was determined to have it, and that place was thought to be next to Christ” (Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages [1898], 644). Leaning on Christ’s chest was “the disciple whom Jesus loved” (John 13:23, 25). This man’s only identifying mark was his relationship with Jesus. The Gospel of John is a record of this disciple’s testimony (21:20, 24). Peter motioned for John to ask who the betrayer was (13:24). Peter must have been sitting in a position close enough to John where he could motion to him and get his attention. In response to his query, Jesus spoke to John, but the other disciples didn’t hear (vv. 26–28), again confirming their close position at the table. Finally, Jesus turned to Judas, handed him the bread, and spoke directly to him. This indicates that Judas was seated so that Jesus could lean on his chest, showing full confidence and trust. Jesus reposed on the breast of his betrayer, giving Judas the position of trust to guard Jesus’ back.

Jesus provided three acts of hospitality to Judas: He washed his feet, handed him bread to eat, and gave him the place of confidence and trust. Jesus identified His betrayer not with accusations and pointed fingers but with acts of service. John gave us another insight into this drama: while Judas was the traitor, he was not Jesus’ real opponent. Jesus and Satan are the combatants. A cosmic battle, one that rages still today, was at work (13:2, 27).

Upon receiving the bread, Judas immediately departed into the night (v. 30). Once more, we encounter a concept with a dual meaning. “It was night” (v. 30) communicates more than just timing. From the opening pages, the Gospel has framed the conflict as being between light and darkness. Judas had fully cut himself off from the light and had walked into complete darkness.

#### Journal:

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks seem to point to overall?`

`What questions emerge after studying this lesson? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How could Jesus’ betrayer be so well respected among the disciples? Can you envision it happening today (see Matt. 24:10)?`