---
title: Instruction to the Disciples
date: 27/11/2024
---

#### inVite

After Judas’ departure, Jesus began a long series of teachings only for His disciples. The content of John 14–17 is unique to this Gospel. Jesus’ first words alone with the remaining disciples encapsulate the major themes He wanted to emphasize during these final moments before His death. Jesus yearned for God to be glorified in Him. He stressed the interlocking nature of His own glorification with that of the Father. The suffering that Christ was about to endure on the cross, as well as the power displayed by His resurrection, would reveal God’s character and love to the world.

Jesus knew the next events would be rapid, and He longed for His followers to be prepared. He wanted them to embrace this “new” commandment to love one another. The command to love was hardly new, but Christ’s humiliation and death would illustrate a depth of love heretofore unknown. Both the foot-washing and crucifixion cast a new light on the meaning of love. The depth of Christ’s love has become the new measure of our service as disciples (John 13:35). Today, more than ever before, the world needs a divine demonstration of God’s love through His people.

While Jesus was speaking of the love that should exist among them, the disciples were more interested in finding out where Jesus was going. The disciples struggled with a problem similar to that of the Samaritan woman who tried moving the conversation to theological issues when Jesus tried to address her need (4:20). Perhaps some of us need to back off on technical questions at times to give God room for more personal heart work inside of us.

After Simon Peter pressed Jesus about where He was going, the story leads immediately into John 14:1–6, where Jesus explained His destiny and theirs more fully. Although Jesus was departing, He offered a more intimate and accessible kind of relationship to the disciples and to later believers. As we read these verses, our thoughts usually turn to the Second Coming and to the eternal home God has prepared for us. However, if we focus exclusively on the Second Coming and heaven, we miss an important connection to the events surrounding this conversation. The idea of the Father’s house (14:2) continues the themes of hospitality and service that formed the backbone of the foot-washing experience. Jesus offers us a place to dwell with Him now, not just at His return. This does not minimize the ultimate reality of His promise, but dwelling with Him eternally in heaven will be a continuation of abiding with Him in the present.

Jesus’ deepest desire and His biggest dream is to be with us. He is making every possible preparation to receive us into His own home so that we can dwell with Him forever. There’s nothing in this world more important than reciprocating His love and preparing ourselves to live with Him forever.

#### Journal:

Meditate on John 13 again and look for where Jesus is.

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What are meaningful ways you reciprocate God’s love toward you?`

`When have you avoided personal and heart-searching questions in favor of curious or technical ones?`

`Prayer Response:`