---
title:  Hope Beyond This Life
date:  13/11/2022
---

The ancient Greek historian Herodotus (fifth century bc) wrote about a tribe that, at a birth, began a period of mourning because they anticipated the suffering that the infant would face if it lived to adulthood. However alien to us the ritual might seem, there is some logic to it.

Millennia later, an advertisement in America in the early twentieth century read “Why live, if you can be buried for ten dollars?”

Life can be hard enough, we know, even if we believe in God and in the hope of eternity. Imagine, though, how hard it is for those who have no hope of anything beyond the short and often troubled existence here. More than one secular writer has commented on the meaninglessness of human existence, since we all not only die, but we all also live with the realization that we are going to die. And this realization is what makes the whole project of human life, which is often hard and sorrowful in and of itself, seemingly null and void. One thinker referred to humans as nothing but “hunks of spoiling flesh on disintegrating bones.” Rather macabre, but, again, it’s hard to argue with the logic.

Of course, in contrast to all this, we have the biblical promise of eternal life _in Jesus_. And that is the key: we have this hope _in Jesus_ and what His death and resurrection offer us. Otherwise, what hope do we have?

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:12–19. What is Paul saying here about how closely related Christ’s resurrection is to the hope of our own resurrection?`

Paul is explicit: our resurrection is inseparably tied to Christ’s resurrection. And if we don’t rise, then it means that Christ has not risen, and if Christ has not risen, then—what? “Your faith is futile; you are still in your sins!” (1 Cor. 15:17, NKJV). In other words, when we die we stay dead, and forever, too, and thus, it all is meaningless. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15:32, “If the dead do not rise, ‘Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die!’ ” (NKJV).

If our present existence as carbon-based protoplasm is all there is, and our “threescore and ten years” (if we are fortunate; more if we don’t smoke or eat too many hamburgers) are all that we get—ever—we’re in pretty tough shape. No wonder Ellen G. White adds, “Heaven is worth everything to us, and if we lose heaven we lose all.”—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 349.

`Think about how precious our hope and faith is. Why must we do all that we can, by God’s grace, to preserve it?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

[Esau] represents those who lightly value the redemption purchased for them by Christ, and are ready to sacrifice their heirship to heaven for the perishable things of earth. Multitudes live for the present, with no thought or care for the future. Like Esau they cry, “Let us eat and drink; for tomorrow we die.” 1 Corinthians 15:32. They are controlled by inclination; and rather than practice self-denial, they will forgo the most valuable considerations. . . . How many, even of professed Christians, cling to indulgences that are injurious to health and that benumb the sensibilities of the soul. When the duty is presented of cleansing themselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God, they are offended. . . . They conclude that since the way to eternal life is so strait, they will no longer walk therein.—Patriarchs and Prophets, p. 181.

He who repents of his sin and accepts the gift of the life of the Son of God, can not be overcome. Laying hold by faith of the divine nature, he becomes a child of God. He prays, he believes. When tempted and tried, he claims the power that Christ died to give, and overcomes through His grace. This every sinner needs to understand. He must repent of his sins, he must believe in the power of Christ, and accept that power to save and to keep him from sin. . . .<br/>
Heaven is worth everything to us, and if we lose heaven we lose all.—Sons and Daughters of God, p. 349.

In the courts above, Christ is pleading for His church—pleading for those for whom He has paid the redemption price of His blood. Centuries, ages, can never lessen the efficacy of His atoning sacrifice. Neither life nor death, height nor depth, can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus; not because we hold Him so firmly, but because He holds us so fast. If our salvation depended on our own efforts, we could not be saved; but it depends on the One who is behind all the promises. Our grasp on Him may seem feeble, but His love is that of an elder brother; so long as we maintain our union with Him, no one can pluck us out of His hand.<br/>
. . . O how privileged we are that we may come to Jesus just as we are and cast ourselves upon His love! We have no hope but in Jesus. He alone can reach us with His hand to lift us up out of the depths of discouragement and hopelessness and place our feet upon the Rock. Although the human soul may cling to Jesus with all the desperate sense of his great need, Jesus will cling to the souls bought by His own blood with a firmer grasp than the sinner clings to Him.—That I May Know Him, p. 80.