---
title:  “ ‘I Will Raise Him Up’ ”
date:  15/11/2022
---

In one of His miracles, Jesus fed 5,000 people with just a small amount of bread and fish (John 6:1–14). Perceiving that the multitude then intended to proclaim Him king (John 6:15), Jesus sailed with His disciples to the other side of the Sea of Galilee. But the next day the multitude followed Him there, where He delivered His powerful sermon on the Bread of Life, with special emphasis on the gift of everlasting life (John 6:22–59).

`Read John 6:26–51. How did Jesus associate the gift of everlasting life with the final resurrection of the righteous?`

In His sermon, Jesus highlighted three basic concepts in regard to eternal life. First, He identified Himself as “ ‘the bread that comes down from heaven and gives life to the world’ ” (John 6:33, 58, NIV). By declaring that “ ‘I am [Greek _egō eimi_] the bread of life’ ” (John 6:35, 48), Jesus presented Himself as the Great “I Am” of the Old Testament (Exod. 3:14). Second, Jesus explained that everlasting life can be secured in Him: “ ‘he who comes to Me’ ” and “ ‘he who believes in Me’ ” will have this blessing (John 6:35, NKJV). And finally, Jesus linked the gift of immortality with the final resurrection, assuring His audience three times, “ ‘and I will raise him up at the last day’ ” (John 6:40, 44, 54, NKJV).

Jesus also gave this amazing promise: “ ‘Very truly, I tell you, whoever believes has eternal life’ ” (John 6:47, NRSV). So, the gift of eternal life is already a present reality. But this does not mean that the believer will never die, for the very expression “raise him up” (John 6:40, NKJV) presupposes coming back to life after one has died.

The picture is clear. Without Christ, one does not have eternal life. But, even after accepting Christ and having the assurance of eternal life, we continue for now being mortal and, therefore, subject to natural death. At the Second Coming, Jesus will resurrect us and, then and there, He will give us the gift of immortality that was ours already. The gift is assured, not because of a supposed natural immortality of the soul but, rather, because of the righteousness of Jesus that comes to us by faith in Him.

`Dwell on the words of Jesus that, if you believe in Him, you have (as in right now) eternal life! How can this wonderful promise help you deal with the painful reality of our present, though only temporary, mortality?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Many suppose that in following Christ they will be obliged to be gloomy and disconsolate, because they are required to deny themselves the pleasures and follies that the world indulge in. The living Christian will be filled with cheerfulness and peace, because he lives as seeing Him who is invisible; and those who seek Christ in His true character have within them the elements of everlasting life, because they are partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruptions that are in the world through lust. Jesus said, “This is the Father’s will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day” (John 6:39, 40).—_Selected Messages, book 1_, p. 136.

Those who will permit God to work in them will grow up unto the full stature of men and women in Christ Jesus. Every power of the mind and body will be used in the service of God. . . . He has wonderful blessings to give to those who will receive Him. He is mighty in strength and wonderful in counsel. By the ministration of the Holy Spirit, He seeks to impress His image upon our characters. If we will feed upon Him we shall become new creatures in Christ Jesus. The virtues of a true Christian character, the excellences that are revealed in the character of Christ, will be seen in the life born of the Spirit. Man, with his human nature, will become a partaker of divinity. The power of Christ will work to sanctify every part of the being, diffusing life, activity, and soundness through the whole, and developing spiritual efficiency.—_That I May Know Him_, p. 106.