---
title:  Church Secrets From Under the Carpet
date:  13/01/2019
---

**Logos**: Dan. 2:27, 28, 47; Matt. 13:35; Rev. 3:6; 22:16

**Secrets Revealed in the Old Testament (Dan. 2:27, 28, 47)**

We already know that the book of the Revelation of Jesus Christ is for the purpose of revealing who Jesus is and what He will be doing. In this regard, it functions the same as prophecy elsewhere. Both Daniel and Nebuchadnezzar proclaimed it. “ ‘The secret which the king has demanded, the wise men . . . cannot declare to the king. But there is a God in heaven who reveals secrets.’ ” “ ‘Truly your God is the God of gods, the Lord of kings, and a revealer of secrets’ ” (Dan. 2:27, 28, 47, NKJV). The book of Daniel was sealed until the end times.

**Jesus Uncovered Secrets From the Foundation (Matt. 13:35)**

Jesus began to reveal some of God’s secrets when He spoke in parables. It was prophesied of Him, “ ‘I will open My mouth in parables; I will utter things kept secret from the foundation of the world’ ” (Matt. 13:35, NKJV). He did so, He said, “ ‘because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven’ ” (verse 11, NKJV). He also promised that “ ‘nothing is secret that will not be revealed, nor anything hidden that will not be known and come to light. Therefore take heed how you hear’ ” (Luke 8:17, 18, NKJV). It is interesting that He warned caution in how we hear.

**Hearing Secrets Is Not Always Gossip (Rev. 3:6)**

Even though there were seven different messages to seven different churches, every message was intended for every church. Each one included the admonition, “ ‘ “ ‘He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches’ ” ’ ” (Rev. 2:7, 11, 17, 29; 3:6, 13, 22, NKJV). They were to hear what was said not only to their own church but to all the churches. We, like they, have the blessing of being reminded in powerful end-time fashion just what snares are being laid for us by the evil one.

The letters had to be very difficult for many in the churches to receive. The realization that their secret sins were known by God to such a degree that He was dealing with them in this manner may have been frightening. Some would certainly have simply faded away, seeing that their lives were open books. Others would have taken the warnings to heart.

As we analyze the messages, we find that Jesus was able to meet the needs of each church, regardless of their situation. Surely, He can meet our needs today, as well. He tells us He wants us to be in heaven. We must not be satisfied with our self-made imaginary heaven. Allow Him to change even your goodness into His image in you.

The letters to the churches were written, first, to get everything out in the open. They would be placed in a situation where they would confess and surrender to Him or cling to their sins to the point of their own eternal peril. Second, they were to let the members of those historic churches know that God knew them intimately. He was aware of their failings and loved them deeply enough to seek their salvation.

The cultures of the churches were different from one another. Jesus pointed to His ability to meet their different struggles and situations. His self-introduction tells us about the particular characteristic He possesses to be able to resolve the issues we face. Jesus gives an appraisal of the church and then counsels the church how to get out of its predicaments. Finally, each message concludes with an appeal to hear the Spirit and with promises to the overcomers.

**For the Last Time, Listen (Rev. 22:16)**

To the people of each church, there is a lesson that God wants us to take personally. We are not to be satisfied with whatever goodness we feel we have or that others think we have. God knows better. He sees into our hearts and motives. Give up what is valuable to you, even what is good in the eyes of God that keeps you from coming higher because you count it to yourself as sufficient. Give it up that you may receive what is truly saving that only Jesus can give you.

The issues and solutions discussed were not necessarily intended to keep the people of these churches from suffering. They were given to let the people know that God was aware of their suffering, allowed it to continue, and promised salvation to those who would endure. This message is given in seven different ways. If we are listening, each of us can find at least one message directed specifically to ourselves. In Revelation 22:16 we have a final appeal from Jesus. He says, “ ‘I, Jesus, have sent My angel to testify to you these things in the churches’ ” (NKJV). We must listen to the messages to all the churches.

**React**

`1. Look at yourself as God might look at you. Which of these church messages seems to be directed specifically to you? How will you use the prescription in that message to let Jesus prepare you for heaven?`

`2. Since so much was made of how we hear, analyze the way you hear what God is saying. Are you hearing it through the experience and culture of a local or national church? What should you do to be sure you have a personal connection with God?`

---

_Gary R. Wagner, Union Springs, New York, USA_