---
title:  Their Message— My Message
date:  16/01/2019
---

**How-to**: Matt. 10:22; Eph. 3:16, 17; Col. 3:17; Revelation 2; 3

Each of the seven churches of Revelation possesses a message for us today. Although five of the seven churches received a rebuke, God also praised those groups for their early manifestations of faith. God wanted them to know they were not without hope if they made a change. So it is with us.

Ephesus forgot her first love and the fervor for sharing the gospel. Have you fallen into this same mind-set? Spending time in consistent Bible reading and prayer is the path to reestablishing your relationship and feeling the excitement you first experienced in your Christian walk.

Jesus warned His followers that they would be hated because of their love for Him. If we follow the counsel given to Smyrna, we will not fear what we may suffer. If we are faithful, even in the face of death, we will receive life. In the early days, Pergamos held firm to their belief in Jesus and didn’t deny their faith. Encouraged to repent, they were promised to receive the hidden manna. What hidden manna is God waiting to provide in your life?

Thyatira exhibited love, faith, patience, and good works. Do you savor the ministry that you are given to share Jesus with others? Have you thought about the patience you exhibit and the good works you do?

Are events in your life taking a toll? Is this weakening your faith? Adopt the counsel to Sardis and be watchful and strengthen what little remains. Look forward to the time when you will be dressed in white raiment.

Philadelphia possessed love—a reflection of God’s character. Our love for others allows us to reveal the true character of God to those who may not know Him.

Laodicea did not receive any commendation. God noted they were spiritually poor, blind, and naked. Even with such a condemnation, God gave them hopeful counsel. By repenting and accepting God’s redeeming power, we are justified by faith. No matter how far we wander from God, He waits for us to come to Him and accept His gift.

Adopt the best traits of the seven churches, and stand side-by-side with Jesus as you eat from the tree of life while wearing the golden crown made especially for you.

**React**

`Which of the seven churches do you feel most represents your spiritual walk today? What counsel given do you need to implement in your life?`

---

_Randolph Farley, Cottonwood, Kansas, USA_