---
title:  Second-Chance God
date:  17/01/2019
---

**Opinion**: 

Have you ever felt that the focus on the seven churches in Revelation was purely negative? Yet the gospel is in the verses that outline the spiritual failings of these churches.

Ephesus wandered away from its first love, but before that it was patient, hated the deeds of false teachers, and did not give up. Pergamum held firm in their belief in Jesus and for a time did not deny the faith. Thyatira possessed love, faith, patience, and good works. In Sardis, undefiled believers were strong in their faith. The Laodiceans received no commendation at all. Too caught up in their world, it appears they did not even realize they were spiritually poor, blind, and naked. The believers in Smyrna and Philadelphia faced persecution and witnessed to others. Although they did not receive a reproof, they were counseled to remain faithful unto death and to hold fast to their faith.

Five of the seven churches received reproofs for becoming distracted from what they were called to do—share the story of Jesus and remain faithful to Him. God did not cast them off entirely. He provided them with counsel for how they could return to Him. With that return comes a promise of a renewed relationship that can be eternal if the believers so choose.

The churches were counseled to repent, remain faithful even if it meant death, hold fast to their faith, continue to be watchful, and be zealous. The promised rewards of a crown of life, white raiment, names written in the book of life, and to sit with Christ on His throne and eat with Him should make repentance and faithfulness attractive.

Have you become weary in your walk with Christ and distracted by the world’s constant clamoring for your attention? Have you lost the first love you experienced when you accepted Jesus into your heart and life? Are you facing ridicule by family and friends for your beliefs? Remember, there are those who have gone before and have faced these same things.

The world we live in is becoming increasingly evil. It may seem as if the devil is winning on all sides. But we must remember that the war has been won, even though it seems like the heavens may fall. Our spiritual strength is based on our relationship with Christ.

The churches receiving reproof allowed themselves to be pulled away from their focus on Christ. They were given a chance to return. That’s good news! The God we serve is one of second, third, and fourth chances, and more. He doesn’t give up on us because He loves us.

---

_Deena Bartel-Wagner, Collegedale, Tennessee, USA_