---
title:  There Will Be a Day
date:  18/01/2019
---

**Exploration**: Rev. 3:22

**Conclude**

The book of Revelation is fascinating. While Jesus focused on writing letters to each of the seven churches, the letters were also meant for us. How can letters that are thousands of years old be meant for us who live now? Today, each church around the globe has its own difficulties and trials. Some churches suffer from persecution. Others have difficulties with staying afloat financially. There are those that are no longer reaching out to their community.

Whatever your church is going through, there is hope. As cliché as it may seem, it is important to remember that Jesus does offer us a life with Him if we continue to be faithful even when the going gets tough.

**Consider**

- Listening to the song “There Will Be a Day” by Jeremy Camp. Focus on the hope that we have for that great day.

- Writing a prayer about God’s promises for those who are faithful and who read His Word during the end time.

- Using a website such as BibleGateway.org to find four Bible verses that talk about listening to God’s Word during trials. Write these out by hand and review them during your personal devotional time.

- Sharing with a friend how God has met your needs like He did for the seven churches.

- Setting aside time daily to read about each of the seven churches. Reflect on how Jesus has been working in your own church.

- Writing a poem about what how to watch for Christ’s return.

**Connect**

Revelation 1:3; 3:3, 22.

---

_Ashley M. Wagner, Union Springs, New York, USA_