---
title:  The Lord Reigns
date:  15/01/2024
---

Closely tied—in fact inseparably tied—to the Lord as Creator is the Lord as Sovereign, as Ruler. The declaration “The Lord reigneth” is solemnly proclaimed in Psalm 93:1, Psalm 96:10, Psalm 97:1, and Psalm 99:1, but its echoes are heard throughout the book of Psalms.

The Lord is clothed with honor, majesty, and strength (Ps. 93:1, Ps. 104:1). He is surrounded with clouds and darkness (Ps. 97:2) but also covers Himself “with light as with a garment” (Ps. 104:2). These metaphors exalt the King’s power and splendor and are carefully chosen to express God’s unique greatness, which is beyond human comprehension.

`Read Psalm 97. What characterizes the Lord’s reign? (Ps. 97:2, 10). What is the domain of His reign? (Ps. 97:1, 5, 9).`

The Lord’s rule is demonstrated in His works of creation (Ps. 96:5), salvation (Ps. 98:2), and judgment (Ps. 96:10). The Lord establishes His kingship over the whole world (Ps. 47:6-9). God’s kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, unparalleled in power and majesty (Ps. 45:6; Ps. 93:1, 2; Ps. 103:19). The Lord’s reign is established on mercy, justice, and righteousness, and it brings order and stability to the created world (Ps. 98:3, Ps. 99:4). God’s reign unites both heavenly and earthly worshipers in the praise of God (Ps. 103:20-22, Psalm 148). Many psalms envision all humanity acknowledging God’s sovereign rule (Ps. 96:10, Ps. 97:1, Ps. 99:1, Ps. 145:11-13).

But not all people, or even earthly rulers, do, at least for now. The Lord’s reign is constantly defied by the wicked, who deny and mock the Lord and oppress His people (Ps. 14:1, Ps. 74:3-22). Though challenged by the prosperity of some wicked people and troubled by God’s forbearance, the psalmist trusts in God’s sovereign rule and continues to flourish in the assurance of God’s righteous judgments (Ps. 68:21, Ps. 73:17-20). By faith God’s people rejoice in the inauguration of God’s kingdom through Christ’s redeeming ministry and wait for the consummation of the kingdom at Christ’s second coming (Matt. 12:26-28, 1 Cor. 15:20-28).

`“You who love the Lord, hate evil!” (Ps. 97:10, NKJV). Why should our love for God cause us to hate evil? How are these two concepts related?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Before Him who ruleth in the heavens the mysteries of the past and future are alike outspread, and God sees beyond the woe and darkness and ruin that sin has wrought, the outworking of His purpose of love and blessing. Though clouds and darkness are round about Him, yet righteousness and judgment are the foundation of His throne. Through the plan of salvation a larger purpose is to be wrought out even than the salvation of man and the redemption of the earth. Through the revelation of the character of God in Christ, the beneficence of the divine government would be manifested before the universe, the charge of Satan refuted, the nature and result of sin made plain, and the perpetuity of the law fully demonstrated.\
Then the extermination of sin will vindicate God’s love and establish His honor before a universe of beings who delight to do His will, and in whose heart is His law.—_That I May Know Him_, p. 366.

“Canst thou by searching find out God? canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection? It is as high as heaven; what canst thou do? deeper than hell; what canst thou know?” “My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways My ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are My ways higher than your ways, and My thoughts than your thoughts.” “I am God, and there is none like Me, declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times the things that are not yet done.” It is impossible for the finite minds of men to fully comprehend the character or the works of the Infinite One. To the keenest intellect, to the most powerful and highly educated mind, that holy Being must ever remain clothed in mystery.\
The apostle Paul exclaims: “O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable are His judgments, and His ways past finding out!” But though “clouds and darkness are round about Him: righteousness and judgment are the foundation of His throne.” [Revised Version.] We can so far comprehend His dealing with us, and the motives by which He is actuated, that we may discern boundless love and mercy united to infinite power. We can understand as much of His purposes as it is for our good to know; and beyond this we must still trust the might of the Omnipotent, the love and wisdom of the Father and Sovereign of all.—_Testimonies for the Church, vol. 1_, pp. 698, 699.

“Ye that love the Lord, hate evil,” the psalmist exhorts . . . Psalm 97:10. . . . [T]hese words of the psalmist show that it is by serving God that this higher ground will be gained. We should now be putting away evilspeaking, selfish plans, everything that would hurt the influence or confuse the judgment. The heart must be emptied of all self-seeking; the conduct must be such that it will lead no soul into false paths.—_Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students_, p. 397.