---
title:  God Is the Judge
date:  16/01/2024
---

`Read Psalm 75. Why is the boasting of the wicked in vain?`

As the Sovereign King, the Lord is also a Lawgiver (Ps. 99:7) and a Judge (Ps. 98:9, Ps. 97:2). The wicked constantly threaten the just order that God established in the world, but the Lord will judge the world and bring the rule of evil to its end (Ps. 75:8-10, Ps. 96:13).

In Psalm 75, several images depict the irrevocable destruction of the wicked. The image of a cup with red wine (Ps. 75:8) conveys the intensity of God’s fury (Jer. 25:15, Rev. 14:10). Cutting off the horns of the wicked depicts the end of their power and dominion, while the horns of the righteous shall be exalted (Ps. 75:10). God chooses a “proper time” (Ps. 75:2, NKJV) or “appointed time” (NIV) for His judgment. This executive judgment clearly will take place at the end of time (Ps. 96:13, 1 Cor. 15:23-26).

The Lord probes people’s hearts as part of His judgment. Read Psalm 14:2. It is reminiscent of Genesis 6:5, 8. Both texts show that the execution of God’s judgment of the world is preceded by God’s examination of the people’s lives and seeking whomever He can save. This judgment is sometimes called “the investigative judgment,” when God defends the righteous and decides the fate of the wicked.

How does it work?

First, God delivers His people from the wicked (Ps. 97:10, Ps. 146:9) and crowns the humble with salvation (Ps. 149:4). Second, the unrepentant wicked are destroyed forever (Ps. 97:3). Some psalms poetically describe the uselessness of human weapons against the Divine Judge (Ps. 76:3-6). The Lord is also a forgiving God, although He punishes people’s misdeeds (Ps. 99:8). God’s people, not only the wicked, shall give an account to God (Ps. 50:4, Ps. 135:14).

The Psalms convey the same notion that is expressed in other biblical texts, that God’s judgment begins with God’s people and is extended to the whole earth (Deut. 32:36, 1 Pet. 4:17). The psalmist cries to God to judge him but relies on God’s righteousness to defend him (Ps.7:8-11; Ps. 139:23, 24).

`The Psalms call us to rejoice in anticipation of God’s judgments (Ps. 67:4, Ps. 96:10-13, Ps. 98:4-9). How is God’s judgment good news for those covered by the blood of Christ?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

When Christ shall come the earth will tremble before Him, and the heavens will be rolled together as a scroll, and every mountain and every island will be moved out of its place. “Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before Him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about Him. He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that He may judge His people. Gather My saints together unto Me; those that have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice. And the heavens shall declare His righteousness: for God is judge Himself” (Psalm 50:3-6). In view of the great day of God, we can see that our only safety will be found in departing from all sin and iniquity. Those who continue in sin will be found among the condemned and perishing.—_Faith and Works_, p. 116.

God brings men into trying places to see if they will trust in a power out of and above themselves. He sees not as man sees. He often has to break up human connections and change the order which man has mapped out, which is perfect in his estimation. What man thinks is for his spiritual and temporal interests may be altogether at variance with the experience he must have in order to be a follower of Christ. His idea of his own value may be far out of the way. . . .\
Character must be tested, else there would be many spurious Christians who would keep up a fair semblance of religion until their inclinations, their desire to have their own way, their pride and ambition, were crossed. When by the Lord’s permission sharp trials come to them, their lack of genuine religion, of the meekness and lowliness of Christ, shows them to be in need of the work of the Holy Spirit. . . .\
The true Christian keeps his eyes fixed on Him who searches the heart and tries the reins, who requires truth in the inward parts. His constant prayer is, “Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts: and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting” (Psalm 139:23, 24).—_In Heavenly Places_, p. 266.

In the account of the judgment scene, when the reward is given to the righteous, and sentence is passed on the wicked, the righteous are represented as wondering what they have done that they should receive such reward. But they cherished an abiding faith in Christ. They were imbued with His Spirit, and, without conscious effort, they performed for Christ, in the person of His saints, those services that bring a sure reward. But their motive in working was not to receive compensation. They regarded it as the highest honor to be allowed to work as Christ worked. What they did was done from love to Christ and to their fellowmen, and He who has identified Himself with suffering humanity accredited these acts of compassion and love as though done to Himself.—_Lift Him Up_, p. 343.