---
title:  Ever Mindful of His Covenant
date:  17/01/2024
---

`The theme of God’s judgment prompts a significant question: How can God’s people have peace with God and assurance of salvation at the time of judgment? Read Ps. 94:14, Ps. 105:7-10, Dan. 7:22.`

God’s people are secure because the Lord placed His dwelling place in Zion (Ps. 76:1, 2) and established His everlasting covenant with them as His treasured possession (Ps. 94:14, Ps. 105:8-10). God does not simply promise not to reject His covenantal people—He actively works to keep them secure in Him. He forgives their sins (Ps. 103:3); He instructs, blesses, and strengthens His people (Ps. 25:8-11, Ps. 29:11, Ps. 105:24). God’s judgments are given to turn the people to righteousness and to demonstrate that God cares for them (Ps. 94:8-15).

Psalm 105 as a whole shows the Lord’s faithfulness to His covenant in Israel’s history. In everything that happened, the good and the bad, God was there. He providentially led Joseph to Egypt and through him saved His people and the nations in that area during the severe famine (Ps. 105:16-24). The Lord raised Moses to lead His people out of Egyptian slavery, which he did with signs and wonders on their behalf (Ps. 105:25-38).

The Lord granted His people the Promised Land (Ps. 105:11, 44) and His continual protection (Ps. 105:12-15). He multiplied them (Ps. 105:24), freed them from their overlords (Ps. 105:37, 38), and provided for their daily needs (Ps. 105:39-41). The Lord is undoubtedly in sovereign control of all that involves His people—a truth that the psalmists wanted His people never to forget.

When God remembers His covenant, it involves more than cognizance or memory because it always leads to action (Gen. 8:1, 1 Sam. 1:19, Ps. 98:3, Ps. 105:42-44). Likewise, when the people are called to remember God’s wonders and judgments, it means that the people should live in ways that honor God.

In this covenant, Israel’s primary calling is to remain faithful to the covenant by observing God’s laws (Ps. 78:5-7, Ps. 105:45). God’s people also are called to bear witness about God to other nations because the Lord wishes all nations to join His people Israel (Ps. 105:1, 2). The world is thus secure in the protective covenant of the almighty and merciful God (Ps. 89:28-34).

`What do we have in Jesus, which shows why these promises made to ancient Israel can now apply to us? (See Gal. 3:26-29.)`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The law of love is the foundation of God’s government, and the service of love the only service acceptable to Heaven. God has ­granted freedom of will to all, endowed men with capacity to appreciate His character, and therefore with ability to love Him and to choose His service. So long as created beings worshiped God they were in harmony throughout the universe. While love to God was supreme, love to others abounded. As there was no transgression of the law, which is the transcript of God’s character, no note of discord jarred the celestial harmonies.\
But known unto God are all His works, and from eternal ages the covenant of grace (unmerited favor) existed in the mind of God. It is called the everlasting covenant, for the plan of salvation was not conceived after the fall of man, but it was that which was “kept in silence through times eternal, but now is manifested, and . . . made known unto all the nations.” (Romans 16:25, 26, R.V.)—_That I May Know Him_, p. 366.

The Lord of heaven is represented as raising up the fallen. He is the Friend of all who love and fear Him, and He will punish everyone who dares to lead them astray from safe paths, putting them in positions of distress as they conscientiously endeavor to keep the way of the Lord and reach the abodes of the righteous.\
Not a sparrow falleth to the ground without the notice of your heavenly Father. Then let men be careful how, by word or action, they cause one of God’s little ones sorrow or grief. If the little sparrow that has no soul cannot fall to the ground without the notice of our heavenly Father, surely the souls of those for whom Christ has died are precious; and will not God judge those who cause pain or disappointment to the hearts of those for whom Christ has given His life?\
Who can measure or anticipate the gift of God? For ages, sin [has] interrupted the divine flow of benevolence to man, but that mercy and great love purchased for the fallen race has not ceased to accumulate; it has not lost its earthward direction. God lives and reigns, and in Christ He has poured forth on the world a healing flood. Our Saviour has made every provision for man.—_The Upward Look_, p. 364.