---
title:  Further Thought
date:  19/01/2024
---

Read Psalm 86:5, 15; Ellen G. White, “God’s Love for Man,” pp. 9-15, in Steps to Christ. How does the truth that God is love help us better understand the various descriptions of God and His deeds in the Psalms?

This week’s study focuses on some key descriptions of God and His activities, which establish the world and render it firm and secure. The psalmists appeal to God, who is the Creator, King, Judge, covenantal Savior, and Lawgiver. The roles in the world that God occupies are further reflected in God’s various other names and titles, including Shepherd (Ps. 23:1, Ps. 80:1), Rock of Salvation (Ps. 95:1), and Father (Ps. 68:5, Ps. 89:26). In the world we can be secure and safe, even amid the turmoil of the great controversy, because God is sovereign and faithful in all He does and says. Although these theological themes are by no means exhaustive, they are suggestive of the various ways in which God reveals Himself in the Psalms.

As we continue to study the Psalms, it is important to remember to read the Psalms in the light of God’s character of love and grace and His plan to save and restore the world. “The more we study the divine character in the light of the cross, the more we see mercy, tenderness, and forgiveness blended with equity and justice, and the more clearly we discern innumerable evidences of a love that is infinite and a tender pity surpassing a mother’s yearning sympathy for her wayward child.”—Ellen G. White, _Steps to Christ_, p. 15. In the Psalms, even when the people face God’s judgment for their rebellion, they continue to call upon God because they know that God’s anger is only for a time, but His mercy is everlasting (Ps. 103:8).

**Discussion Questions**:

`Why is understanding the reality and prevalence of the great controversy crucial in helping us understand that despite God’s ultimate rulership and sovereignty, there is still much turmoil and suffering in our world? Why is the great controversy motif so helpful to us?`

`How should the belief in God as Creator shape our understanding of ourselves and our relationship with the rest of creation? What happens when the people stray from that truth (Ps. 106:35-42)?`

`What was wrong with the idols of the nations in biblical times (Ps. 115:4-8)? What about modern idols? Why are they just as dangerous to our walk with the Lord?`

`How should God’s people live knowing that God’s judgment begins with His people? How does God judge His people and to what end?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Lift Him Up_, “Christ Died for Us,” p. 233;\
_This Day With God_, “The Judgment Is Coming,” p. 296.