---
title:  Living With Each Other
date:  14/03/2026
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Col. 3:18–4:6; Eph. 5:22–25, 33; Prov. 22:6, 15; 1 Pet. 2:16; 1 Thess. 5:17.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one” (Colossians 4:6, NKJV).

When people live and work in close proximity, they meet a va­riety of challenges. Differences of opinion may cause tensions; arguments may ensue. The closer the relationship, the more important it is for everyone in that relationship to get along.

The closest relationships are, of course, within the family. The home has sometimes been called “the family firm.” It’s an interesting way to describe how the home operates. There are definite similarities between running a business and running a household. There should be general agreement on values, goals, and objectives. Everyone should get along with each other and do their part well for things to run smoothly. The same principles apply to the church, which is essentially a large family.

In our passage for this week, Paul provides some vital principles for how a Christian family functions best. Because the Christian home should be governed by biblical principles, it necessarily functions somewhat differently from the typical Roman household. Paul also gives other valuable principles that are helpful for a variety of social relations, both inside and outside the home.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, March 21._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Where shall we find the purity, goodness, and holiness where we shall be secure? Where is the fold where no wolves will enter? I tell you . . . the Lord has an organized body through whom He will work. There may be more than a score of Judases among them; there may be a rash Peter who will under circumstances of trial deny his Lord; there may be persons represented by John whom Jesus loved, but he may have a zeal that would destroy men’s lives by calling down fire from heaven upon them to revenge an insult to Christ and to the truth. But the great Teacher seeks to give lessons of instruction to correct these existing evils. He is doing the same today with His church. He is pointing out their dangers. He is presenting before them the Laodicean message.\
He shows them that all selfishness, all pride, all self-­exaltation, all unbelief and prejudice, which lead to resistance of the truth and turn away from the true light, are dangerous, and unless repented of, those who cherish these things will be left in darkness as was the Jewish nation. Let every soul now seek to answer the prayer of Christ. Let every soul echo that prayer in mind, in petitions, in exhortations, that they all may be one even as Christ is one with the Father, and work to this end. In the place of turning the weapons of warfare within our own ranks, let them be turned against the enemies of God and the truth. Echo the prayer of Christ with your whole heart: “Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are. . . . I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil” (John 17:11–15). . . .\
The door of the heart must be opened to the Holy Spirit, for this is the sanctifier, and the truth is the medium. There must be an acceptance of the truth as it is in Jesus. This is the only genuine sanctification: “Thy word is truth.” Oh, read the prayer of Christ for unity, “Keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one as we are.” The prayer of Christ is not only for those who are now His disciples, but for all those who shall believe on Christ through the words of His disciples, even to the end of the world. . . .\
The Lord has had a church from that day, through all the changing scenes of time to the present period. . . . The Bible sets before us a model church. They are to be in unity with each other, and with God. When believers are united in Christ the living vine, the result is that they are one with Christ, full of sympathy and tenderness and love.—Reflecting Christ, p. 199.