---
title:  Praying for One Another
date:  18/03/2026
---

`Read Colossians 4:2–4. What principles for prayer do you find in these verses? What prayer requests does Paul make?`

Some of the most important words we can say to someone who is struggling with issues of various kinds, be they family, health, money, or something else, are “I’m praying for you.” This is heaven’s chosen means of connectivity and interactivity. “It is a part of God’s plan to grant us, in answer to the prayer of faith, that which He would not bestow did we not thus ask.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, p. 525.

Notice the impactful descriptions of prayer Paul uses: “continue” (or persevere), “earnestly,” “being vigilant,” and “with thanks­giving”—signaling that this is a prayer of faith (Col. 4:2, NKJV). He tells us to pray “always” (Eph. 6:18) and “without ceasing” (1 Thess. 5:17). Most amazingly, even though “we know not what we should pray for as we ought . . . the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered” (Rom. 8:26).

`Reread Colossians 4:3. What “door for the word” (NKJV) might God open for you to share your faith?`

Significantly, Paul also prayed for the right words to speak. Sometimes, when we read his letters or his speeches in the book of Acts, we imagine that the apostle was always eloquent, with never a doubt as to what he should say. But here he asks for prayer that he may proclaim the message “clearly” (Col. 4:4, NIV). He also uses a very important Greek word (dei) in the last phrase of the verse, which could be translated “as I must speak,” pointing to the divine necessity of the work of proclaiming the gospel. He recognized the importance of presenting the message to people at the highest levels of the Roman government, including Caesar’s household.

“It is not always necessary to bow upon your knees in order to pray. Cultivate the habit of talking with the Saviour when you are alone, when you are walking, and when you are busy with your daily labor. Let the heart be continually uplifted in silent petition for help, for light, for strength, for knowledge. Let every breath be a prayer.”—Ellen G. White, The Ministry of Healing, pp. 510, 511.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

We do not understand the greatness and majesty of God nor remember the immeasurable distance between the Creator and the creatures formed by His hand. He who sitteth in the heavens, swaying the scepter of the universe, does not judge according to our finite standard, nor reckon according to our computation. We are in error if we think that that which is great to us must be great to God, and that that which is small to us must be small to Him. . . .\
No sin is small in the sight of God. The sins which man is disposed to look upon as small may be the very ones which God accounts as great crimes. The drunkard is despised and is told that his sin will exclude him from heaven, while pride, selfishness, and covetousness go unrebuked. But these are sins that are especially offensive to God. . . . We need clear discernment, that we may measure sin by the Lord’s standard.\
Now, while probation lingers, it does not become one to pronounce sentence upon others and look to himself as a model man. Christ is our model; imitate Him, plant your feet in His steps. You may professedly believe every point of present truth, but unless you practice these truths it will avail you nothing. We are not to condemn others; this is not our work; but we should love one another and pray for one another. When we see one err from the truth, then we may weep over him as Christ wept over Jerusalem. Let us see what our heavenly Father in His word says about the erring: “If a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted” (Galatians 6:1). . . .\
Jesus cares for each one as though there were not another individual on the face of the earth. As Deity He exerts mighty power in our behalf, while as our Elder Brother He feels for all our woes. The Majesty of heaven held not Himself aloof from degraded, sinful humanity. We have not a high priest who is so high, so lifted up, that He cannot notice us or sympathize with us, but one who was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 78.

“Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another,” that ye may be healed of all spiritual infirmities, that sinful dispositions may be changed. Make diligent work for eternity. Pray most earnestly to the Lord, and hold fast to the faith. Trust not in the arm of flesh, but trust implicitly in the Lord’s guidance. Let each one now say, “As for me, I will come out, and be separate from the world. I will serve the Lord with full purpose of heart.”—To Be Like Jesus, p. 336.