---
title:  Walking in Wisdom
date:  19/03/2026
---

What is the most important truth that we, as Christians, can know? Of course, it is that Jesus Christ died for our sins and that, through faith in Him, we can have eternal life. This is a truth that we could have never figured out on our own. Instead, it was a truth that had to be told, or revealed, to us. And it has been revealed to us—in the Word of God.

There’s a great deal of truth, knowledge, and wisdom that we would never have known were it not for what God has revealed to us in His Word. But this knowledge and wisdom have not been given to us just as knowledge, just as something to know. Rather, we are to live out in our own lives this truth, this knowledge, and this wisdom.

`Read Colossians 4:5, 6. In what situations does Paul indicate we especially need to “walk in wisdom”? Why might that be?`

Unfortunately, as Christians, sometimes we are anything but Christian! And, as Paul indicated (quoting Isaiah 52:5), Israel was also a stumbling block for unbelievers: “For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you” (Rom. 2:24). How we act toward others, especially those not of our faith, matters a lot (see Titus 2:5, 2 Pet. 2:2). A Christian home, a gathering of youth for prayer rather than for mischief; simple kindnesses; and a calm, patient spirit speak volumes to those who are watching to see whether our profession is genuine or not.

In Colossians 4:6, Paul focuses especially on the words we speak: “Let your speech always be gracious” (ESV). More than simply kind or polite, the words we speak should be prompted and permeated by God’s grace through the influence of the Holy Spirit.

“Seasoned with salt.” Opposite to the world’s definition of “salty” speech, our words should be fitting and appealing to those we address.

“That you may know how you ought to answer each one” (NKJV). Only the Holy Spirit can give us the right words at the right time for the right purpose and prepare the minds of the hearers for the message we “must” share (here, too, dei is used—see yesterday’s comments on Colossians 4:4).

`Think about your words, your actions, and how you walk before others. What message are you sending about your faith and what it means to be a Christian?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The promise is not that we will have strength today for a future emergency, that anticipated future trouble will be provided for beforehand, before it comes to us. We may, if we walk by faith, expect strength and provision for us as fast as our circumstances demand it. We live by faith, not by sight. The Lord’s arrangement is for us to ask Him for the very things that we need. The grace of tomorrow will not be given today. Men’s necessity is God’s opportunity. . . . The grace of God is never given to be squandered, to be misapplied or perverted, or to be left to rust with disuse. . . .\
While you are bearing daily responsibilities in the love and fear of God, as obedient children walking in all humility of mind, strength and wisdom from God will be given to meet every trying circumstance. . . .\
We are to keep close to the Source of our strength day by day, and when the enemy comes in like a flood the Spirit of the Lord lifts up a standard for us against the enemy. The promise of God is sure, that strength shall be proportioned to our day. We may be confident for the future only in the strength that is given for the present necessities. . . . Do not borrow anxiety for the future. It is today that we are in need.\
Many are weighed down by the anticipation of future troubles. They are constantly seeking to bring tomorrow’s burdens into today. Thus a large share of all their trials are imaginary. For these, Jesus has made no provision. He promises grace only for the day. He bids us not to burden ourselves with the cares and troubles of tomorrow. . . .\
The Lord requires us to perform the duties of today and to endure its trials. We are today to watch that we offend not in word or deed. We must today praise and honor God. By the exercise of living faith today we are to conquer the enemy. We must today seek God and be determined that we will not rest satisfied without His presence. We should watch and work and pray as though this were the last day that would be granted us. How intensely earnest, then, would be our life. How closely would we follow Jesus in all our words and deeds.—God’s Amazing Grace, p. 261.