---
title:  Further Thought
date:  20/03/2026
---

“Every member of the family should realize that a responsibility rests upon him individually to do his part in adding to the comfort, order, and regularity of the family. One should not work against another. All should unitedly engage in the good work of encouraging one another; they should exercise gentleness, forbearance, and patience; speak in low, calm tones, shunning confusion; and each doing his utmost to lighten the burdens of the mother. . . .

“Each member of the family should understand just the part he is expected to act in union with the others. All, from the child six years old and upward, should understand that it is required of them to bear their share of life’s burdens.”—Ellen G. White, The Adventist Home, pp. 179, 180.

“We must let Christ into our hearts and homes if we would walk in the light. Home should be made all that the word implies. It should be a little heaven upon earth, a place where the affections are cultivated instead of being studiously repressed. Our happiness depends upon this cultivation of love, sympathy, and true courtesy to one another. . . . We should be self-forgetful, ever looking out for opportunities, even in little things, to show gratitude for the favors we have received of others, and watching for opportunities to cheer others and lighten and relieve their sorrows and burdens by acts of tender kindness and little deeds of love. These thoughtful courtesies, that, commencing in our families, extend outside the family circle, help make up the sum of life’s hap­piness; and the neglect of these little things makes up the sum of life’s bitterness and sorrow.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, vol. 3, pp. 539, 540.

**Discussion Questions**:

`For married couples, what principles have helped you in your relationship? What advice do you have for the unmarried, and how they should prepare for the challenges that marriage always brings?`

`Many loving, caring parents who raised their children in fine Christian homes often have to deal with adult children who reject the faith. What advice and comfort can you give them? What might be better not to say at all?`

`Discuss further the admonition to “walk in wisdom.” In contrast, what does it mean to walk in “stupidity” as opposed to wisdom? What did you learn from the different times you might have walked in one or the other?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The Faith I Live By, “Silken Cords of Affection,” September 18, p. 267.\
Our High Calling, “A Safe Guide,” January 10, p. 16.\