---
title:  Jesus in the Writings of Peter
date:   13/05/2017
---

### Jesus in the Writings of Peter

> <p></p>
> “Who Himself bore our sins in His own body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live for righteousness—by whose stripes you were healed” (1 Pet. 2:24, NKJV).

Can you imagine being a friend of Peter’s? When Jesus called him to follow Him, Peter was a brash, boisterous fisherman. If you’ve stood on the wharf where fishing ships come in, you understand that Peter probably had an aroma about him. Ragged around the edges, possessing a crude manner—many people would have avoided a friendship with this type of person. Jesus saw past the outer man and looked on the heart. In His wisdom, Jesus saw a leader and a fisherman who could become a fisher of men. Then Jesus urged Peter to follow Him.

**The covenant and hope of eternal life had grown to include the Gentiles also.**

Once he became a follower of Jesus, Peter’s personality didn’t change immediately. He still spoke up at inopportune times. In some ways, he was bigger than life. But don’t forget that Peter also had a tender heart. He wanted to be a true follower of Christ. When Jesus told Peter that in the hour of crisis his betrayal would occur, Peter couldn’t fathom it. When the unthinkable happened, imagine the agony Peter felt.

In spite of all these personality quirks, Peter was chosen to bring the good news of salvation to Jews and Gentiles alike. Such a calling was difficult for a man with a Jewish upbringing. From babyhood, Peter had heard that his people, the Jews, were chosen by God. “You are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you out of all the peoples on the face of the earth to be his people, his treasured possession” (Deut. 7:6, NIV). He’d been taught that the Messiah was coming to release them from their bondage. However, the opening greeting in 1 Peter encompasses all of God’s chosen people. Peter finally understood that although the Jews had been the chosen ones, with Christ’s death and resurrection, the covenant and hope of eternal life had grown to include the Gentiles also.

Peter’s ultimate conversion also brought a change in his worldview. This is evidenced in his letter of 1 Peter, where the message of the chosen extends to everyone. Peter wants his readers to know that they, Jew or Gentile, have been specially chosen by God. They must use their free will to follow Jesus, but at least they have that opportunity. Without making this choice, they are exiles from eternity.

Peter couldn’t keep the good news of life in Christ to himself. He wanted the world to know that Jesus had become the cornerstone in his life. During this week’s lesson, we will examine in detail Peter’s message of “Jesus is all.”

_Deena Bartel-Wagner, Union Springs, New York, U.S.A._