---
title:  The Stone in the Soup
date:   14/05/2017
---

### The Stone in the Soup

Matt. 4:19; 16:13–20; John 18:15–27; 1 Cor. 10:4; 1 Pet. 2:1–9

When I was in elementary school, I heard a story called “Stone Soup.” The story recounts how a group of travelers convince inhospitable villagers to share food with them. The travelers place a stone in boiling water and ask each villager, one by one, for garnishes to make the “stone soup” much better. Eventually, a mouthwatering soup is made, and everyone partakes. The story has been told in a variety of ways and with a myriad of objects taking the place of the stone, but there is always one central theme: something placed in the pot makes everyone willing to change.

**The stone in Peter’s soup is Jesus!**

We know that Peter faced a lot of change in his life and ministry. Originally a fisherman, Peter had his entire world turned upside down when he met Jesus, the Rock (1 Cor. 10:4). Jesus bade him follow Him. We know that Peter did not truly commit to Christ until after his denials (John 18:15–27). Jesus bids Peter to a life of serving Him by saving men: “ ‘I will make you fishers of men’ ” (Matt. 4:19, NKJV).

Matthew 16:13–20 is an interesting glimpse into a personal conversation between Jesus and His disciples. He asks two important questions: “ ‘Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am?’ ” and “ ‘Who do you say that I am?’ ” (verses 13, 15, NKJV). The disciples, eager to answer the first question, say that the people call him John the Baptist, Elijah, or one of the prophets. But their answers do not flow as quickly for the second question. Only Peter speaks up, saying, “ ‘You are the Christ, the Son of the living God’ ” (verse 16, NKJV). Then Jesus delivers the words that have been long debated by historians and theologians the world over: “ ‘You are Peter, and on this rock I will build My church’ ” (verse 18, NKJV). It is plain to see that Jesus was asking leading questions to get to an important point: He is the Christ, the One who will take away the sins of the world, and this would be the Rock of salvation to come.

Therefore, it only makes sense that Peter would make Christ the cornerstone of his writings. Jesus is mentioned by name 30 times in the combined eight chapters of 1 and 2 Peter. Peter even calls him the Chief Cornerstone in 1 Peter 2:1–9. The stone in Peter’s soup is Jesus!

**REACT**

`When asked the question that Jesus asks His disciples, how would you respond to, “Who do you say that I am?”`

`If you were to examine the “writings” of your life, explain whether you would find Jesus to be the cornerstone or the occasional decorative brick.`

_Keith Ingram, Reading, Pennsylvania, U.S.A._