---
title:  Receiving What We Can Never Deserve
date:   15/05/2017
---

### Receiving What We Can Never Deserve

1 Pet. 1:5, 21; 2:24

Even though we have heard about the death of Jesus, it is still difficult for us to understand how anyone could die for our salvation, and, even more, how God Himself might do it. When we are honest with ourselves, we know our lack of merit. We even shy away from claiming the gift of salvation, because we know we can never deserve it. It is similar to the idea that, deep inside, we know we have done nothing of merit to receive the participation trophies and ribbons that cover many of our dressers and bulletin boards at home. How much less do we deserve to have God dying for us in our sins and failings!

**We are the trophies [Jesus] earned.**

Perhaps that is the point, though. Maybe in some strange way, those soccer and school trophies teach us that there really is something good that can come to us without merit. We reached out and accepted those trophies in the faith that they were being given by someone who knew the reasons. We took them home and placed them where everyone could see them. This is exactly what we must do with the gift of salvation, given by the only One who could give it.

_**Trophies Earned (Matt. 16:16)**_

Jesus didn’t brag about the task He came to do. He did not lift Himself up before the disciples to be God, the Son of God, even though that’s what He was. He doesn’t continually look at us with His hand on His scarred side, appealing to us to “make it worthwhile.” Besides, there is nothing we can do to make it worthwhile. To Jesus, if we simply accept the gift, then it was worthwhile to Him. We are the trophies He earned.

_**Jesus’ Struggles and Ours Were Foreordained (Ps. 2:2; John 15:18– 20; 1 Pet. 1:17–21)**_

People who do not want to follow God and be held to the morality of eternity have never been willing to accept God according to His demands. They have found it necessary to belittle and suppress those who believe that God exists. The frightened bully always picks on those he feels he can subdue. Jesus showed that He understood the reasons why people of power and authority have difficulty accepting Him. He warned us that they would take out their vitriol on us, since they can do nothing to control or diminish God. The university student of today is in the hot seat and seemingly at the mercy of professors who can’t accept that there is One who has power over them. Knowing that our present plight was known to Jesus before the foundations of the earth should give us courage to see that the promised victory is just as certain.

_**The Proof We Seek (Isa. 53:1–12; John 20:27, 28)**_

The prophecy about Jesus, given 500 years before His time, shows that His life and death were foreordained. We can see what the people in His day could not see. Israel had no concept of the meaning of Isaiah’s prophecy. Not that they didn’t see it; they didn’t want to see it. It didn’t make sense to them that their Savior would have the characteristics described here. They looked for a Messiah who would ride in like a knight in shining armor and lead the nation to a glorious military victory over the oppressive Roman army. Their own pride prevented them from seeing that they could be saved by a lowly carpenter’s illegitimate son. “Certainly, we are better than that in the eyes of God! God could never be represented by one so uneducated and unsophisticated as this vagabond storyteller,” they might have said to one another in the cloisters of the Sanhedrin.

It is easy for us to say that they should have opened their eyes and dropped their arrogance and hypocrisy. What about us today? We still have trouble understanding, and therefore believing, what it means that God sent His only Son to die for us and to give us salvation. The very presence of Jesus bodily in the upper room after His resurrection was the proof that Thomas the doubter and we, the educated skeptics 2,000 years later, really needed. He did die, and He did rise from the grave!

_**Only One Thing Left to Do (1 Cor. 15:17–21)**_

Christ is risen. This is our assurance. This very fact seals the salvation of those who accept Him and puts to an end the “what-ifs” and the “but maybes.” There is no need to get lost in endless conjecture about whether God can or will save us. Jesus rose! His death proved that He wants to save us and is prepared to do it, and His resurrection proved that He can. Reach out and accept that trophy.

**REACT**

`1. How is accepting Jesus similar to or different from receiving a participation trophy?`

`2. If you have accepted Him, have you put Him on display in your life or hidden Him in a drawer?`

`3. Seeing the assurance of the risen Christ, what questions do you still have about receiving Him? Discuss these.`

_Gary Wagner, Union Springs, New York, U.S.A._