---
title:  Tell It Over Again
date:   16/05/2017
---

### Tell It Over Again

1 Pet. 1:4, 5

“Behold the life and character of Christ, and study His mediatorial work. Here is infinite wisdom, infinite love, infinite justice, infinite mercy. Here are depths and heights, lengths and breadths, for our consideration. Numberless pens have been employed in presenting to the world the life, the character, and the mediatorial work of Christ, and yet every mind through which the Holy Spirit has worked has presented these themes in a light that is fresh and new.

**“We may become the sons of God, members of the royal family.”**

“We desire to lead the people to understand what Christ is to them and what are the responsibilities they are called upon to accept in Him. As His representatives and witnesses, we ourselves need to come to a full understanding of the saving truths gained by an experimental knowledge.

“Teach the great practical truths that must be stamped upon the soul. Teach the saving power of Jesus, ‘in whom we have redemption through His blood, even the forgiveness of sins.’ Colossians 1:14. It was at the cross that mercy and truth met together, that righteousness and truth kissed each other. Let every student and every worker study this again and again, that they, setting forth the Lord crucified among us, may make it a fresh subject to the people. Show that the life of Christ reveals an infinitely perfect character. Teach that ‘as many as received Him, to them gave He power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on His name.’ John 1:12. Tell it over and over again. We may become the sons of God, members of the royal family, children of the heavenly King. Let it be known that all who accept Jesus Christ and hold the beginning of their confidence firm to the end will be heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ ‘to an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.’ 1 Peter 1:4, 5.”*

**REACT**

`1. How do we behold the life and character of Jesus and study His mediatorial work?`
`2. How do we transfer the main theme of Peter’s letters into “experimental knowledge”?`
`3. If we have confidence in the life of Jesus, His death, and resurrection, why is it so easy at times to slip away from these truths?`

_Ashley Wagner, Union Springs, New York, U.S.A._