---
title:  Walking in His Footsteps
date:   17/05/2017
---

### Walking in His Footsteps

1 Pet. 1:22; 2:23

We face numerous trials and challenges in our lives. Some may cause us to question our faith. In such circumstances, we are often told to follow Christ’s example, to look to His life for the answers. It is wise counsel, without a doubt. But what does that mean exactly?

**We are called to be living stones for His glory but also to be rejected by men.**

The book of 1 Peter gives us many practical examples of what it means. As Peter wrote to the Christian believers, he always reminded them of Christ, their example, and what this meant for them in their everyday lives. Here are two examples we can follow:

This little thing called love. “Love one another fervently with a pure heart” (1 Pet. 1:22, NKJV). This is a rather broad subject, but numerous texts from the Bible describe what love is and from where it stems. We are reminded in 1 John 4:8 that “he who does not love does not know God, for God is love” (NKJV). Our entire Christian walk rests upon knowing God and drawing near to Him. We must not only show love but become loving. We must spend time learning about God as love and how He shows this love to His creation.

Walk through fi re with Him. Amid sufferings, Peter encourages the brethren to take heart and to remember that Christ Himself was “the stone which the builders rejected” (Ps. 118:22, NKJV). We are called to be living stones for His glory but also to be rejected by men. There is a greater purpose in this: God is building His people and His kingdom. Just as Christ suffered, we, too, will face trials and persecution for His sake. “When He was reviled, He did not revile in return; when He suffered, He did not threaten, but committed Himself to Him who judges righteously” (1 Pet. 2:23, NKJV).

Christ endured hardship for our sake and loved those who least deserved it. Loving those who threaten, revile, and offend us goes against our very nature. Hence, Christ purposed to show us how to truly love—fervently and with a pure heart. There is nothing purer or more genuine than this.

**REACT**

1. Did you view a previously difficult time in your life as a blessing to face suffering? Why, or why not?
2. How can you show love to people who have hurt or offended you? How can you grow to love these people?

`Jose-Ann Martin, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada`