---
title:  'A Clarion Call: Passion'
date:   18/05/2017
---

### A Clarion Call: Passion

1 Pet. 2:12

Peter seems to be the most passionate and assertive of Jesus’ inner circle of disciples. If you have read the New Testament, you have seen his eagerness, his impetuous and impulsive nature, and his leadership in the Christian church, second only to Paul.

Peter is known to act and then ask questions. He left his nets and followed Jesus without a second thought. It happened when he walked on water, cut off Malchus’s ear, and after the resurrection, jumped into the Sea of Galilee, swimming to Jesus on shore.

**“Peter’s overly tempestuous character was gradually brought under control.”**

Defining Peter’s character, William S. McBirnie states, “Peter was a rare combination of courage and cowardice, of great strength and regrettable instability. Christ spoke more often to Peter than to any other of His disciples, both in blame and praise. No other disciple is so pointedly reproved by our Lord as Peter, and no disciple ever ventured to reprove his Master but Peter! However, by degrees and under the teaching and example and the training of Christ, Peter’s overly tempestuous character was gradually brought under control, until finally after Pentecost it become the personification of faithfulness to Christ.”*

It is perhaps this late-coming, grace-filled passion of Peter’s, void of self, that gives us the clearest charge to our Christian walk. He begins with a sweet, moderate tone in the first chapter, admonishing that there is joy in the journey, though there have been trials for a period. He says these trials will show that our faith is genuine, resulting in the salvation of our souls (1 Pet. 1:6–9).

Chapter 2 reminds us that Christ was abused and suffered through the sin around Him. Through these heartaches, Jesus was faithful to commit everything to God as our righteous Judge. Peter learned to die to sin, to cowardice, and to impetuosity. He lived rightly in Jesus, and we hear his testimony in his challenge to us to commit to God also (verses 21–25).

Finally, Peter invites us to peace in God’s grace through Jesus and to give worship to Him. This grace is what gave Peter the power and courage to grow and to know his Master, and it will give power and courage to you and me.

**REACT**

`1. What did Peter learn from his encounter with Jesus that we can learn too?`
`2. How can we apply Peter’s advice in today’s social media–driven world?`

<sup>* William S. McBirnie, The Search for the Twelve Apostles (Carol Stream, Ill.: Tyndale House Publishers, 1973), p. 23.</sup>

_Christopher Beason, Apison, Tennessee, U.S.A._