---
title:  Tell About Jesus
date:   19/05/2017
---

### Tell About Jesus

Matt. 4:19

**CONCLUDE**

Peter couldn’t keep the good news about Jesus to himself. Jesus called him, walked with him day-by-day, transformed his life, and then asked him to “feed My sheep.” In the Bible books that bear his name, Peter reminds us what Christ has done for us in dying on the cross and what He continues to do as He transforms our characters. Peter speaks of the importance of loving each other and of facing suffering with rejoicing. Peter found grace, and he invites his readers, then and now, to find that same grace.

**CONSIDER**

- Brainstorming ways you can share Jesus with others. Not everyone is a get-up-front-and-speak kind of person. Think of things you can do that match your personality and God-given abilities.
- Getting to know someone who is not a Seventh-day Adventist, or maybe someone who isn’t even a Christian. Pray that the Holy Spirit will give you wisdom about reaching out to that person’s spiritual needs.
- Spending some time in quiet reflection about the Bible verses in the lesson this week. How is God speaking to you through these passages?
- Creating a piece of art that shows what Jesus means to you. Share your artwork with your friends.
- Memorizing the Bible verse or verses from this lesson that are most meaningful to you. Read it in several versions and then memorize it in whatever version is your favorite.
- Singing “Lead On, O King Eternal” (no. 619, The Seventh-day Adventist Hymnal ) either by yourself or with a group of friends. How does the message of this hymn go along with this week’s lesson?

**CONNECT**

1. Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, chap. 51, “ A Faithful Undershepherd.”
2. Bill Hybels and Mark Mittelberg, Becoming a Contagious Christian (Zondervan, 1996).

_Christy Yingling Gusse, Loma Linda, California, U.S.A_