---
title:  Faithfulness
date:  16/11/2025
---

`Read Numbers 13:6, 30–32 and Joshua 14:6, 14. Who was Caleb? What was his place among the people of Israel?`

The name of Caleb comes from the Hebrew word keleb, “dog,” which occurs in the Old Testament, always in a negative context. However, keleb is used in extra-biblical letters and hymns to express a servant’s courage, tenacity, and faithfulness to his or her master. In this respect, Caleb was faithful to his name, demonstrating throughout his life unwavering loyalty to his Lord.

`What does it say about Caleb that he was willing to speak his mind even though the majority of the spies had a completely different opinion, and the people of Israel threatened him with death? See Num. 14:6–10, 21–25; Num. 26:65; Num. 32:12.`

Consider these important Israelite leaders, contemporaries of Joshua and Caleb: Shammua, Shaphat, Igal, Palti, Gaddiel, Gaddi, Ammiel, Sethur, Nahbi, and Geuel. Do these names sound familiar?

Probably not.

Why? Because they are the names of the other ten spies sent by Moses to explore the land of Canaan. They are forgotten because their names were not worthy of being remembered. The report that they brought portrayed the Promised Land as impossible to conquer. They saw themselves as grasshoppers compared to the giants who inhabited some areas of the land, and their hearts melted with fear at the “impregnable” walls of the fortified cities in Canaan.

Caleb, as the older of the two spies who brought a positive report, takes the lead in presenting another possibility: the attitude of faith. He was willing to speak up for what he knew was right, despite the opposition, even in the face of potential death: “And all the congregation said to stone them with stones” (Num. 14:10, NKJV).

`What do you do when most people around you seem to have a different opinion, one that goes contrary to your deepest convictions?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

These men, having entered upon a wrong course, stubbornly set themselves against Caleb and Joshua, against Moses, and against God. Every advance step rendered them the more determined. They were resolved to discourage all effort to gain possession of Canaan. They distorted the truth in order to sustain their baleful influence. It “is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof,” they said. This was not only an evil report, but it was also a lying one. It was inconsistent with itself. The spies had declared the country to be fruitful and prosperous, and the people of giant stature, all of which would be impossible if the climate were so unhealthful that the land could be said to “eat up the inhabitants.” But when men yield their hearts to unbelief they place themselves under the control of Satan, and none can tell to what lengths he will lead them. . . .\
In humiliation and distress “Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel,” not knowing what to do to turn them from their rash and passionate purpose. Caleb and Joshua attempted to quiet the tumult. With their garments rent in token of grief and indignation, they rushed in among the people, and their ringing voices were heard above the tempest of lamentation and rebellious grief: “The land, which we passed through to search it, is an exceeding good land. If the Lord delight in us, then He will bring us into this land, and give it us; a land which floweth with milk and honey. Only rebel not ye against the Lord, neither fear ye the people of the land; for they are bread for us: their defense is departed from them, and the Lord is with us: fear them not.” . . .\
The unfaithful spies were loud in denunciation of Caleb and Joshua, and the cry was raised to stone them. The insane mob seized missiles with which to slay those faithful men. They rushed forward with yells of madness, when suddenly the stones dropped from their hands, a hush fell upon them, and they shook with fear. God had interposed to check their murderous design. The glory of His presence, like a flaming light, illuminated the tabernacle. All the people beheld the signal of the Lord. A mightier one than they had revealed Himself, and none dared continue their resistance. The spies who brought the evil report crouched terror-stricken, and with bated breath sought their tents. . . .\
And of Caleb He said, “My servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed Me fully, him will I bring into the land whereinto he went; and his seed shall possess it.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 389, 390, 391.