---
title:  The Power of Example
date:  18/11/2025
---

`Read Joshua 15:16–19, Judges 1:13, and Judges 3:7–11. What does this story tell you about the power of example? How is Caleb’s attitude being reproduced in the younger generation?`

In this passage, Caleb offers his daughter, Achsah, in marriage to the one who conquers Debir. Othniel captures the city and wins the hand of Achsah. This story is important because, once again, it reveals Caleb’s courage, faith, and readiness to take on challenges.

It also shows that the next generation of Israelites followed the example of these giants of faith, Caleb and Joshua. As the older generation closes their ministry, there is a new generation ready to face the challenges and continue to fulfill God’s plan for Israel.

In a way that is not unlike Caleb’s request to Joshua, “Give me this hill country,” Achsah, encouraged by her husband, displays the same faith and resolution that her father demonstrated. Through her determination and boldness, Achsah continues the line of Caleb’s example of the fulfillment of the promise to possess the land.

Indeed, the land is a gift from Yahweh to Israel, but Israel must appropriate it by claiming the promises of the Lord with faith and courage. Achsah’s determination foreshadows the perseverance of those women in the Gospels who would not be turned away by the crowd or the disciples and would not give up until they received Jesus’ blessing for themselves and their families.

`Read Luke 18:1–5. What lesson is here for us?`

`Passing on the torch of faith to the next generation is crucial to the fulfillment of the mission God has entrusted to us. Think about the challenges of passing on faith to the next generation, on the one hand, and about the opportunities for young people to assume more responsibility in the work of God, on the other. What can we do to facilitate and train youth to assume godly leadership? How crucial is our example in this process?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It was Caleb’s faith in God that gave him courage; that kept him from the fear of man, even the mighty giants, the sons of Anak, and enabled him to stand boldly and unflinchingly in defense of the right. From the same exalted source, the mighty General of the armies of heaven, every true soldier of the cross of Christ must receive strength and courage to overcome obstacles that often seem insurmountable. The law of God is made void; and those who would do their duty must be ever ready to speak the words that God gives them, and not the words of doubt, discouragement, and despair.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 5, p. 378.\
Two, however, of the twelve who had viewed the land, reasoned otherwise. “We are well able to overcome it” (Numbers 13:30), they urged, counting God’s promise superior to giants, walled cities, or chariots of iron. For them their word was true. Though they shared with their brethren the forty years’ wandering, Caleb and Joshua entered the Land of Promise. As courageous of heart as when with the hosts of the Lord he set out from Egypt, Caleb asked for and received as his portion the stronghold of the giants. In God’s strength he drove out the Canaanites. The vineyards and olive groves where his feet had trodden became his possession. Though the cowards and rebels perished in the wilderness, the men of faith ate of the grapes of Eshcol.\
No truth does the Bible set forth in clearer light than the peril of even one departure from the right—peril both to the wrongdoer and to all whom his influence shall reach. Example has wonderful power; and when cast on the side of the evil tendencies of our nature, it becomes well-nigh irresistible.—_Education_, pp. 149, 150.\
Thousands would accept the truth if they could do so without denying self, but this class would never build up the cause of God. These would never march out valiantly against the enemy,—the world, the love of self, and the lusts of the flesh,—trusting their divine Leader to give them the victory. The church needs faithful Calebs and Joshuas, who are ready to accept eternal life on God’s simple condition of obedience. Our churches are suffering for laborers. The world is our field. Missionaries are wanted in cities and villages that are more certainly bound by idolatry than are the pagans of the East, who have never seen the light of truth. The true missionary spirit has deserted the churches that make so exalted a profession; their hearts are no longer aglow with love for souls and a desire to lead them into the fold of Christ. We want earnest workers. Are there none to respond to the cry that goes up from every quarter: “Come over . . . and help us”?—_Testimonies for the Church, vol. 4_, p. 155.