---
title:  Further Thought
date:  21/11/2025
---

“Caleb’s faith now was just what it was when his testimony had contradicted the evil report of the spies. He had believed God’s promise that He would put His people in possession of Canaan, and in this he had followed the Lord fully. He had endured with his people the long wandering in the wilderness, thus sharing the disappointments and burdens of the guilty; yet he made no complaint of this, but exalted the mercy of God that had preserved him in the wilderness when his brethren were cut off. Amid all the hardships, perils, and plagues of the desert wanderings, and during the years of warfare since entering Canaan, the Lord had preserved him; and now at upwards of fourscore his vigor was unabated. He did not ask for himself a land already conquered, but the place which above all others the spies had thought it impossible to subdue. By the help of God he would wrest his stronghold from the very giants whose power had staggered the faith of Israel. It was no desire for honor or aggrandizement that prompted Caleb’s request. The brave old warrior was desirous of giving to the people an example that would honor God, and encourage the tribes fully to subdue the land which their fathers had deemed unconquerable.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 512, 513.

“It was Caleb's faith in God that gave him courage, that kept him from the fear of man, and enabled him to stand boldly and unflinchingly in the defense of the right. Through reliance on the same power, the mighty General of the armies of heaven, every true soldier of the cross may receive strength and courage to overcome the obstacles that seem insurmountable.”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, May 30, 1912.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Discuss the power of peer pressure and the courage it takes to speak up when others do not. What is the role of courage in practicing our faith? How can we avoid being rude while standing for what we believe is right?`

`Share in your class some examples of faith from your church or community that shaped your life and character. What are the traits of these people that are worth following?`

`Think about and discuss the influence media has on our lives. How can we avoid its negative effect while harnessing its potential for good purposes?`

`Reflect more on the humility of Joshua as a leader and his desire to live close to the sanctuary. In what ways does his example speak to you?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

Christ Triumphant, “We Are on the Borders of the Promised Land,” December 29, p. 370.\
The Faith I Live By, “Third Person of the Godhead,” February 15, p. 52.\