---
title:  Further Thought
date:  19/05/2023
---

“The reason provided . . . to worship God is that He is the Creator. In the heavenly liturgy, celestial beings expressed the idea in a very succinct way: ‘For You created all things’ ([Rev.] 4:11, [NKJV]). On earth, God’s creatorship needs to be emphasized as much as possible, so the angel says, ‘Worship Him who made the heaven and the earth and sea and springs of waters’ ([Rev.] 14:7, [NKJV]). It has been correctly indicated that the angel is using the language of the fourth commandment to justify the call to worship God (Exod. 20:11). . . .

“Within the Decalogue the Sabbath commandment stands as its seal in that it identifies who God is—the Creator; confirms the territory over which He rules—everything He created; and reveals His right to rule—for He created everything. In order for the dragon to succeed, he had somehow to set aside this memorial.”—Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, “The Closing of the Cosmic Conflict: Role of the Three Angels’ Messages,” unpublished manuscript, pp. 40, 41.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How does the message of the Sabbath answer the great questions of life, such as where did I come from, why am I here, and what is my eternal destiny?`

`Dwell on the marvel of Creation. Dwell on the miracle of our own existence in this vast universe. What should the fact that the prime memorial of this Creation, the Sabbath, comes to us (as opposed to us going to it), every week without exception, teach us about how important the doctrine of Creation is?`

`In Daniel 3 and Daniel 6, how do you see the issue of worship being played out in these inspired accounts? What is found in these accounts that can help us prepare and anticipate the challenge God’s faithful people will face during the crisis around “the mark of the beast”?`

`How do we show someone who believes in the millions, even billions, of years of evolution as the means of creation the irrationality of keeping the seventh-day Sabbath as a memorial to that creation?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

In Heavenly Places, “Sanctifying Power,” p. 145;<br/>
That I May Know Him, “God’s Appointed Signature,” p. 211.<br/>