---
title: 'Being a Witness'
date: 14/06/2026
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage:** Acts 4

It was a busy Sabbath morning for Pastor G. He awakened early to prepare for Sabbath School, the sermon, and an evangelistic series in the afternoon. After a hurried breakfast, he grabbed his keys, ran out the door, and sped away.

He weaved through the city traffic, annoyed that so many people were out on a Saturday morning and could make him late for church. Where were they all going? Then, out of nowhere, one car cut in front of him. He slammed on the brakes and held up his fist in frustration and anger, yelling at the driver.

Finally, Pastor G arrived at the church. As he stood up to teach the lesson, his eyes scanned his class and came to rest on a familiar face: the driver of the car he was angry at just twenty minutes earlier.

Later, when a church member introduced the driver as a non-Adventist who was visiting relatives, Pastor G realized once again how every interaction, both with acquaintances and strangers, should be bathed in love that flows from an abiding relationship with God. We never know how our actions, especially as believers, can impact others.

The question is not whether our lives are a witness, because every believer leaves some kind of impression about God. The question is what kind of witnesses we are. Do we attract people to Christ by our words and actions, or do we repel them by misrepresenting Him? Let’s be honest; we can all think of times when we wish we had represented Christ better. Thankfully, God has lots of mercy on us and helps us grow when we are teachable.

Jesus gave us a mandate to share His message with the world: “Go therefore and make disciples” (Matt. 28:19). The mission of the Seventh-day Adventist Church is to make disciples, who can then make other disciples. That way we are all proclaiming the everlasting gospel and the three angels’ messages (Rev. 14:6–12) to prepare our world for Jesus’ soon return.

Anyone who has received new life in Christ is called to witness. Yet, too often, people think about witnessing as something they can’t do or don’t want to do. You might picture yourself preaching on a street corner or giving a complex Bible study, and so you shake your head. “Not me! No way! I’m an introvert; witnessing isn’t my comfort zone.” However, witnessing is not meant to feel intimidating, nor is it something separate from our everyday lives.

True witnessing is largely the result of being an eyewitness to what God is doing in your life, of noticing what He is teaching you as you grow in Him, and then simply sharing your experience with others. God is so good, and what He has done for us is the best news this world can hear. We cannot and should not be silent! He has redeemed you; He has called you by name—you are His. Could there be any better news for anyone anywhere? When love for Christ fills our hearts, we will speak of Him as naturally as we might speak about a friend.

This is not to say God won’t stretch us beyond our comfort zones when we embrace God’s call to share Christ. To the contrary, God uses ordinary people to accomplish the most extraordinary missions. He often uses timid people to speak up for Him and reluctant people to dare the most for Him. Our apparent limitations are God’s greatest opportunities.

When Jesus came to this earth, He chose the least promising people to proclaim His message. Fishing boats were the last place people expected Jesus to find the talent He needed. When people saw the boldness of Peter, John, and the other disciples, they marveled at their lack of education, which drew even more attention to the power of Christ that filled them (Acts 4:13). Today, Jesus is still looking for the most unlikely people to be bold witnesses to the world.

### inScribe

`Read Acts 4 and make an outline or mind-map of this important chapter. Write out verses 13 to 17 from the translation of your choice. What guiding principles do you glean from this story on how to be a witness for Christ?`

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.