---
title: 'With All Boldness'
date: 15/06/2026
---

### inGest

Although the disciples in the early church weren’t educated or sophisticated, we can still learn much from them. God sometimes calls people who seem less qualified but rely on the power of God instead of on their own abilities. The story of the disciples reminds us that our witness accomplishes very little in our own strength. God looks for witnesses who recognize their dependence on Him. The disciples could only make a global impact through the power of the Holy Spirit. Jesus promised them, “You shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be witnesses to Me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth” (Acts 1:8). The Holy Spirit empowered them to do things beyond human capability and to proclaim the message of Christ far beyond their own borders.

The witness of the disciples was more than just words. In the name of Jesus, Peter healed a lame man at the temple in Jerusalem, which immediately caught the attention of the crowds and stirred up opposition from the leaders. Today, our witness should also include good deeds that we do for helpless people (Acts 4:9). Helping people with their physical needs softens people’s hearts and gives credibility to our message, but it can also attract negative attention.

The authorities tried to silence Peter and John, but they would not be intimidated. They were not content just to be passive witnesses. They felt compelled to be active witnesses for Christ. Acts 4 repeatedly uses the word boldness to describe the witness of the disciples (Acts 4:13, 29, 31). The Holy Spirit filled them with all boldness and gave convincing power to their words. “They had been with Jesus” (Acts 4:13) and were compelled to share. Peter and John declared, “For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard” (Acts 4:20). When people watched the disciples and listened to their words, they realized this was not a boldness born of self-confidence but a boldness that resulted from spending time with Jesus. Nobody could deny that these men were changed by being with Jesus.

This is not a story of men boldly pursuing their own agenda but a story of men who “spoke the word of God with boldness” (Acts 4:31). As we surrender our own plans and follow what God has called us to do, we can move forward unafraid of the consequences. We may be up against fierce opposition and major hurdles, but God empowers us to overcome the obstacles when we are faithful to His call and proclaim His message.

**Questions to explore:**

`What was witnessing like for the early church? What impact did Peter and John have on those who heard them witness?`