---
title:  Tips for Sharing Jesus
date:   15/06/2026
---

### inTerpret

The question for each of us is: With whom are you sharing Jesus—the postal carrier, a store clerk, someone you see daily when you’re out walking? God calls every believer to help Him with this work, and He promises to give you “the tongue of the learned, that [you] should know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary” (Isa. 50:4). It is also the duty of every Christian to always be prepared to give a defense (apologia) for the faith and hope that is in us (1 Pet. 3:15). When questioned by skeptics, every believer should have some answer ready to explain the reasons for their faith.

Where can we start? Here are some simple tips to keep in mind as you consider how to be more intentional about sharing Jesus with others:

- Get to know someone and build a friendship over time. Your warmth, kindness, and genuine interest in them (being “lovable”) will help draw them to God. (Some call this “friendship evangelism.”)
- Pray for the Holy Spirit to work on the person’s heart. Pray for the right opportunities to interact with them.
- Look for natural ways to talk about your own faith experiences or offer a prayer for them. Ask God to give you boldness but gentleness in your approach.
- Find ways to connect your new friend with others from your church so they can experience the embrace of your church community. A social event or small group Bible study is a good next step.
- Pray about the specific needs or questions your new friend might have and look for an opportunity to show them how the Bible offers comfort, advice, and guidance in our lives. You might simply share one Bible promise at first or answer one question, which will open the door for deeper discussions. Pray for those too.
- There will come a time you’ll want to ask if your friend would like to take a next step (Bible study and, eventually, baptism). Don’t rush these steps, but also don’t lag. Pray about this.
- Our actions should reveal whose we are. How we treat others in our lives will speak volumes. As our characters are shaped in His likeness (sanctification), we will live to draw all people to Him.

Like a child slowly learning to walk, begin with small steps. Over time, your confidence and ability to share Christ will strengthen.

`Spend some time in prayer right now. Ask God for courage to share Him with the people He puts in your life. Ask Him for wisdom to know when to share and what to say. Read 1 John 4:7–11 and pray for this kind of love.`

_Memorize your favorite passage from Acts 4. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization._