---
title:  inQuire
date:   19/06/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**Being a witness:**

1. How were the disciples prepared to be witnesses? Acts 1:8; 4:13
2. How was the disciples’ witness intentional, purposeful, and bold? Acts 4:13, 29, 31
3. What does a witness do? Acts 4:20

`Personal reflection: When have you experienced that soul winning is linked to a personal and vibrant walk with God?`

**God’s love as a foundation of witnessing:**

1. What’s one way the disciples demonstrated God’s love in their witness? Acts 4:9
2. What did Jesus come to manifest to the world, and how can we do the same? 1 John 4:7–11
3. Why is love so foundational for any kind of effective witnessing? John 13:35; 1 Cor. 13:1–3

`Personal reflection: What practical ways can we demonstrate God’s love to the world today as part of our witness? How have you seen people impacted by love?`

**Other principles for witnessing:**

1. What should move us to help people and share Christ? Matt. 9:36
2. Can we force people to follow? Matt. 23:37
3. How do we learn what to say when we witness for Christ? Isa. 50:4

`Personal reflection: What has been your experience sharing Christ with people? What lessons have you learned?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- When God’s love and His Word fill our daily lives, we will be compelled to share Him with those around us.
- We should be prayerful, thoughtful, and intentional about witnessing.
- As we spend personal time alone with God, He teaches us and gives us words to share with people.