---
title:  inTro
date:   20/09/2026
---

### The Message of a Loving Savior

Captain William Miller was raised in a Christian home and had great respect for his mother’s faith. In his youth, he had a deep reverence for God and a strong sense of his own sinfulness. He tried diligently to live with integrity, but eventually, he realized he couldn’t do it. He also became disillusioned by the suffering he saw in the world and couldn’t reconcile it with a loving God. These two things led him to consider other beliefs, and he eventually settled into deism, the philosophy that God created all things but is distant and uninterested in what He created.

While serving in the War of 1812, a conflict between the United States and Great Britain, Captain Miller had a near-death experience that shook him to the core and led him to reconsider his deistic beliefs. During the Battle of Plattsburgh, a cannonball exploded a few feet away from Miller, killing one of his friends and leaving him unharmed. The true turning point came two year later the night before he was to attend an annual celebration of the American’s victory at Plattsburgh. A powerful sermon given the night before the celebrations deeply moved the community, and they canceled the celebrations in favor of prayer meetings.

The following Sunday, Miller was asked to read the sermon in church. The assigned topic, parental duties, exposed the emptiness of deistic beliefs when considering life’s deeper meaning. Those present noticed how profoundly Miller was moved. This moment marked the beginning of a spiritual transformation that changed his life—and the lives of many others. Soon after, Miller described his conversion this way:

“Suddenly,” he says, “the character of a Saviour was vividly impressed upon my mind. It

seemed that there might be a being so good and compassionate as to himself atone for our transgressions, and thereby save us from suffering the penalty of sin. I immediately felt how lovely such a being must be, and imagined that I could cast myself into the arms of, and trust in the mercy of, such a one. But the question arose, How can it be proved that such a being does exist? Aside from the Bible, I found that I could get no evidence of the existence of such a Saviour, or even of a future state.... I saw that the Bible did bring to view just such a Saviour as I needed; and I was perplexed to find how an uninspired book should develop principles so perfectly adapted to the wants of a fallen world. I was constrained to admit that the Scriptures must be a revelation from God. They became my delight; and in Jesus I found a friend. The Saviour became to me the chiefest among ten thousand; and the Scriptures, which before were dark and contradictory, now became the lamp to my feet and light to my path. My mind became settled and satisfied. I found the Lord God to be a Rock in the midst of the ocean of life. The Bible now became my chief study, and I can truly say, I searched it with great delight. I found the half was never told me. I wondered why I had not seen its beauty and glory before, and marveled that I could have ever rejected it. I found everything revealed that my heart could desire, and a remedy for every disease of the soul. I lost all taste for other reading, and applied my heart to get wisdom from God.”<sup>1</sup>

As a result of studying many of the things we’ve discussed in the past twelve weeks, Miller went on to become an incredibly impactful preacher, leading many to accept Christ as their own personal Savior. He also focused on teaching the prophecies concerning Christ’s soon return. Miller’s work helped prepare the way for the fulfillment of Revelation 14—written nearly 1,700 years before his birth—a message of a loving Savior returning to receive His people in fulfillment of prophecy, and a message of warning to ensure His people would be ready for that return.

This week, we’re looking at how Christ’s teachings and actions during His closing scenes were meant to prepare God’s end-time people for the closing scenes of earth’s history.

### inScribe

Make an outline or mind map of Revelation 14. Especially focus on verses 1–12, writing them out from the translation of your choice or rewriting them in your own words.

Review your scribed passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [Arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`What special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Great Controversy_ (1911), 319.