---
title:  inGest
date:   21/09/2026
---

### The 144,000

The book of Revelation tells us there will be a special people in the last days who will receive the seal of God with their Father’s name on their foreheads (Rev. 7:4–8; 14:1). This group is called the 144,000. Interpretations vary regarding specific details about this group, but most scholars agree that at the very least, it represents those of God’s people who will live during the closing scenes of earth’s history.

The 144,000 are distinguished from the people of the world by their Father’s name being written on their foreheads. Throughout Scripture, God’s name is associated with His character. When the Lord proclaimed His name to Moses, He described His character (Exod. 34:4–7). The Father’s name on the foreheads represents God’s character of love. His name will be placed there to show that His character governs all their decisions and drives their faith experience.

The 144,000 will sing a new song that no one else can learn (Rev. 14:3). This song is an expression of their remarkable experience. It’s the song of Moses and the Lamb (Rev. 15:3). These people will experience God’s redemption and deliverance firsthand. Revelation 14 adds that the 144,000 are male virgins who have not defiled themselves with women (Rev. 14:4). As with other prophetic symbols in Revelation, their virginity must be interpreted symbolically. This characteristic means the 144,000 have rejected the teachings of “the great harlot,” called Babylon, as well as the teachings of her daughters, who continue in her sinful traditions (Rev. 17:1, 5). Rather than following these corrupt women, they “follow the Lamb wherever He goes” (Rev. 14:4). This group is determined to keep their eyes on Jesus and to walk in step with Him wherever He leads.

Finally, the 144,000 are pure before God. “In their mouth was found no deceit, for they are without fault before the throne of God” (Rev. 14:5). This statement shows the depth of their living by faith. They are fully clothed in Christ’s righteousness, reflecting the beauty of His character and speaking the truth about who Christ is.

They have read and internalized the beautiful truth of God’s character, revealed in Christ and His teachings. As Ellen White put it, those who receive God’s seal on their foreheads have experienced “a settling into the truth, both intellectually and spiritually, so they cannot be moved.”<sup>1</sup> That they are sealed means they’ve become so firmly established in the truth of who God is and His unfailing love for humanity that they are unshakeable in their faith—no matter the consequences. This experience is what Christ laid the groundwork for in His final instructions to His disciples.

**Questions to consider:**

`What form of “settling into the truth”<sup>1</sup> have you experienced while studying this quarterly? How has God revealed His beautiful character to you in what you’ve studied?`

`What kind of song is God making out of your life? What experiences of deliverance and salvation has He given you?`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _Last Day Events_ (1992), 220.