---
title:  inTerpret
date:   22/09/2026
---

### Preparing for the Crisis

During the closing scenes of Christ’s life, He shared profound lessons with His disciples (John 13–17) that were intended to deepen their understanding of truth and lead them to live in harmony with it. To prepare them for their coming crisis, He focused their attention on who the Father truly is and what He wanted to do for them.

At the end of time, God’s people must come to understand what Christ taught in those pivotal moments. Notice how God’s end-time message in Revelation 14 parallels the critical truths Jesus taught during His last evening with His disciples before the crucifixion.

Echoing essential teachings from Jesus’ final discourse, the first angel proclaims with a loud voice, “Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come” (Rev. 14:7). Jesus explained to the disciples how the Holy Spirit would glorify Him: “He will glorify Me, for He will take of what is Mine and declare it to you” (John 16:14). This special work of the Holy Spirit includes guiding people “into all truth” (John 16:13). One way God’s people at the end of time will give glory to Him is by declaring to the world the message of Jesus and of all truth. Jesus also emphasized to His disciples the message of judgment, telling them the Holy Spirit would convict the world of judgment (John 16:8–11). The Spirit will use God’s people at the end of time to bring the judgment-hour message to the world.

The second angel’s message announces the fall of Babylon, a religious power that has persecuted and oppressed God’s people and falsely represented His character. Jesus warned His disciples about persecuting powers: “Whoever kills you will think that he offers God service. And these things they will do to you because they have not known the Father nor Me” (John 16:2, 3). This spirit of persecution is the opposite of having the Father’s name written on their foreheads.

The third angel’s message results in a people “who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus” (Rev. 14:12). On the night of the Last Supper, Jesus repeatedly invited the disciples to experience a deeper faith—to believe in Him no matter what happened (John 14:1, 11, 29). He also impressed on them the importance of obeying all His commandments (John 14:15, 21; 15:10, 14).

Studying the closing scenes of Christ’s life, including His final teachings, connects us to the One who will keep us strong in the last days of earth’s history. In reflecting on His final days, we are more prepared to stand firm in faith, to love as He loved, and to endure as He endured.

`What parts of this passage do you need to grapple with? Did you notice any new details or perspectives this time?`

`How can we be more receptive to the Holy Spirit leading us into all truth?`

`Memorize your favorite passage from Revelation 14. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.`