---
title:  inVite
date:   24/09/2026
---

### The Faith of Jesus

Despite the chaos that will engulf us at the end of the world, the book of Revelation promises that God will indeed have an end-time people who “keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus” (Rev. 14:12). God’s people who remain faithful to Him will endure fierce opposition and persecution, just like Jesus did during the closing scenes of His life. They will encounter cunning religious deceptions from false teachers. During this time, they will need the kind of persevering faith that Jesus had—faith that rested in the Father’s love even when He couldn’t feel it.

In the closing scenes of earth’s history, God’s people will face a tremendous crisis during which they will be tempted to believe they’ve been abandoned to suffer alone. Their key to success will be to have the same kind of faith that sustained Jesus in His time of trial:

In those dreadful hours He had relied upon the evidence of His Father’s acceptance heretofore given Him. He was acquainted with the character of His Father; He understood His justice, His mercy, and His great love. By faith He rested in Him whom it had ever been His joy to obey. And as in submission He committed Himself to God, the sense of the loss of His Father’s favor was withdrawn. By faith, Christ was victor.<sup>1</sup>

Christ’s story will be our story. His song will be our song. Those who remain loyal to God until the end will sing “the song of the Lamb” (Rev. 15:3). Our unswerving, uncompromising faithfulness will be due to our complete dependence on God. We will be held by God’s strength, not our own.

It is not possible to build a robust faith overnight. The kind of faith we will need in the future comes only by exercising faith in all the big and little decisions we make every day. Am I learning to trust God in the current challenges I’m facing? Do I cling to God when I’m lonely and unsupported by friends? Do I firmly hold on to my beliefs even when mocked and ridiculed for them? Do I know how to live by faith when my resources are limited? How do I respond to risk and danger? Do I prioritize God in my finances, my time, and my talents? Finally, do I maintain a quality relationship with God in both the good times and the bad?

It was complete trust in His Father that carried Jesus through in the closing scenes of His life. Trusting God will be the only way to have true peace in the closing scenes of earth’s history.

**Questions to consider:**

`What opportunities and experiences is God giving you now to build your faith in Him?`

`Journal a personal prayer to God.`

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_ (1898), 756.