---
title:  inSight
date:   25/09/2026
---

### A Living Faith

“The Lord has a work for every one of His loyal people to do to bring the faith of Jesus into the right place where it belongs—in the third angel’s message. The law has its important position but is powerless unless the righteousness of Christ is placed beside the law to give its glory to the whole royal standard of righteousness. ‘Wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good.’ Romans 7:12. A thorough and complete trust in Jesus will give the right quality to religious experience. Aside from this the experience is nothing. The service is like the offering of Cain—Christless. God is glorified by living faith in a personal, all-sufficient Saviour. Faith views Christ as He is—the sinner’s only hope. Faith takes hold of Christ, trusts Him. It says, ‘He loves me; He died for me. I accept the sacrifice and Christ shall not have died for me in vain.’”<sup>1</sup>

“Every ray of light that Heaven sends is essential for our salvation. We are living in the last days, and the Lord does not mean to leave us in darkness and uncertainty. There are great blessings in store for those who keep the commandments of God, not in name merely, but in sincerity and truth. It has been necessary to exalt the great standard of righteousness, but in doing this, many have neglected to preach the faith of Jesus. If we would have the spirit and power of the third angel’s message, we must present the law and the gospel together, for they go hand in hand. As a power from beneath is stirring up the children of disobedience to make void the law of God, and to trample upon the faith of Christ as our righteousness, a power from above is moving upon the hearts of those who are loyal to exalt the law, and to lift up Jesus as a complete Saviour. Unless divine power is brought into the experience of the people of God, false theories and erroneous ideas will take minds captive, Christ and His righteousness will be dropped out of the experience of many, and their faith will be without power or life. Such will not have a daily, living experience of the love of God in the heart, and if they do not zealously repent, they will be among those who are represented by the Laodiceans, who will be spewed out of the mouth of God.”<sup>2</sup>

---

<sup>1</sup> Ellen G. White, _The Three Angels’ Messages_ (2022), 115.

<sup>2</sup> White, _The Three Angels’ Messages_, 116.