---
title:  inQuire
date:   26/09/2026
---

As we journey through this study, it’s important to engage deeply with the material and reflect on its implications for our faith and daily lives. In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to lead a thoughtful discussion based on this week’s main passage and supporting verses.

**God’s end-time people:**

1. What makes the 144,000 different from the people of the world? Rev. 14:1–5
2. How can we see from the Bible that God’s name is associated with His character? Exod. 34:4–7
3. The 144,000 remain pure from what women in Revelation? What does their virginity symbolize? Rev. 17:5
4. What’s the significance of the 144,000 following the Lamb wherever He goes?
5. What does it mean for 144,000 to be sealed? Rev. 7:1–8

`Personal reflection: Have you ever been in a situation where it was really hard to follow Jesus? Reflect on the lessons you learned from that experience.`

**Parallel messages:**

1. What themes from Christ’s final instructions to His disciples (John 14–16) are found in the first angel’s message (Rev. 14)? Rev. 14:6, 7; John 16:8–10
2. How does the warning against the persecuting power of Babylon echo Christ’s warnings of persecution? Rev. 14:8; 17:5, 6; John 16:1–4
3. How do both messages emphasize the importance of keeping God’s commandments? Rev. 14:12; John 14:15, 21; 15:10, 14
4. How is the invitation to a deeper faith and belief present in both messages? Rev. 14:12; John 14:1, 11, 29

`Personal reflection: What lessons have you learned from the closing scenes of Christ’s life that can help you stay faithful during earth’s closing scenes? After immersing yourself in this powerful message, what are some tangible ways you can begin sharing this with the world around you?`

**Key takeaways to remember:**

- The 144,000 have settled into the truth of God’s character, as revealed in Jesus’ final teachings and actions before the crucifixion. The truth of Jesus is what sustains them.
- The three angels’ messages echo key themes from Christ’s closing teachings.
- The more we exercise our faith today, the more it will grow strong enough to sustain us through the bigger trials that will come in the future.