---
title: Unglued
date: 04/09/2021
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 19:3–11**

**Unglued**

If you have ever worked with strong glue, you know how to be careful not to stick together things you do not intend to keep together. Once they are stuck together, you may be able to separate them, but it will not be without significant effort, and both objects are likely to experience some damage.

Any time a relationship comes to an end, it is a painful experience that makes an impact on one’s psyche. The death of a loved one, severing ties with a community due to a job relocation, breaking an unfruitful liaison—these all occur with varying degrees of hurt. The closer the connection that is sundered, the more excruciating the experience.

When individuals come together sexually, they achieve the highest level of physical intimacy. The physical connection has involuntary emotional, psychological, and spiritual effects on them. In a supernatural way, the sexual act binds individuals together. Even outside the bonds of marriage, breaking a sexual relationship is significantly more painful and more damaging than if the relationship had not been sexual in nature. (This is one argument against casual sex.)

Divorce has come to be viewed by many as a viable solution to marital stress. If the relationship is not working, just end it. But in marriage, God glues two people together. From the very practical tasks of managing a household together and negotiating finances to the intangible manner in which a couple is now viewed in society, marriage welds their lives together. To crown it all, the one act that embodies the glue effect of marriage, where two become one, is sex. The divorced couple may be separated, but not without damage to both parties.

#### inScribe

Write out Matthew 19:3–11 from the Bible translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `