---
title:  More Lessons From The Expert Teacher
date:  31/10/2020
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Genesis 3:1–11; Genesis 28:10–17; John 1:1–14; Matthew 15:21–28; Mark 10:46–52.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Go,’ said Jesus. ‘Your faith has healed you.’ Right away he [the blind man] could see. And he followed Jesus along the road” (Mark 10:52, NIrV).

HAVE YOU FELT BAD about yourself? Who hasn’t? We’ve all done things that cause us pain when we think about them. We’ve also done things we don’t want anyone to know about. Who hasn’t had this experience, right?

Think about some of the bad experiences that happened to people in the Bible. Maybe you first thought of when Adam and Eve ate the fruit from the forbidden tree. Or what about Jacob when he tricked his father into showing him more favor than he showed to Esau. Then Jacob ran away in fear from His brother’s anger. How did Jacob sleep at night? What about the woman who was “caught sleeping with a man who was not her husband” (John 8:4, NIrV)? David also had this experience. He wrote Psalm 32 after it happened. He also talks about how bad his sin made him feel. David also talks about how good it feels to turn back to God after we sin.

All these stories show us that we are all the same: we are all sinners. That is why the Good News about Jesus is for everyone. Jesus’ death is for all humans too.

So, Christian education must show us the only way to solve our sin problem. This week, we will look to the only one who can solve it: Jesus, our Expert Teacher.