---
title:  HIDING FROM GOD
date:   01/11/2020
---

`Read Genesis 3:1–11. Why do you think God asks Adam, “ ‘Where are you?’ ” (Genesis 3:9, ERV).`

Many pictures about the Fall show the forbidden fruit as an apple. But that is not what the Bible says. The Bible only says it is the “ ‘fruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden’ ” (Genesis 3:3, ERV). What the fruit was does not matter. What is important is that the fruit was forbidden. The forbidden fruit is a word picture. When Adam and Eve ate it, it showed that they had chosen to follow their own plan, not God’s. Their eating the fruit was the same as their saying, “I can be in charge of my own life. I can be god to myself. I have more say so than God.”

Sure enough, when the snake got Adam and Eve to eat the fruit, their lives went out of control. Then they heard God nearby. So, “they hid among the trees in the garden” (Genesis 3:8, ERV).

Do you think it is strange that God asks Adam where he is? God knows everything. Of course, He knows where Adam is. So, why does God ask what He already knows? Maybe the Lord asks the question to help Adam and Eve understand that they are hiding because of their sin. So, God is helping them see the bad things that have happened because of their actions.

`Read Romans 5:11–19. In these verses Paul shows how Jesus’ death on the cross happens because of Adam’s sin in Eden. What should the connection between these two things tell us about how Jesus came to undo what Adam did?`

God’s plan to save sinners is His answer to Adam and Eve’s sin. Adam and Eve hide from God in shame and guilt. God comes to save them from their sin. We, too, have done the same thing. Jesus comes to save us. So, the question, “Where are you?” is something that God asks each one of us too. That is, where is Jesus in your life? And what has Jesus done to save you from your sin and guilt?

`Christian education includes many important things. Why must it help us understand that, as sinners, we want to hide from God? And then why must Christian education help us to look to Jesus as the only One who can save us?`

_“Where are you?”_
