---
title:  Running Away 
date:  02/11/2020
---

`Read Genesis 28:10–17. What experience does Jacob have before the story in these verses happens? What does this story teach us about God’s forgiveness and mercy for people who are “running away” from their sins?`

Jacob, with his mother’s help, tricks his father. Now Jacob is paying for his lies. His brother wants to hurt him for his lies. So, Jacob runs away from home to escape the danger. Jacob heads to his uncle’s place in Haran. For sure, this is a scary experience for Jacob.

One night, Jacob falls asleep on the ground in the middle of nowhere. He uses a stone for a pillow. Soon he starts to dream. In the dream, Jacob sees a ladder or stairs. The bottom of the stairs rests on the ground. The top of the stairs stretch to heaven. Angels are going up and down the stairs.

Then Jacob hears a voice say, “I am the Lord, the God of Abraham.” The voice says to Jacob the same promises that God gave to Abraham and Isaac. The voice tells Jacob that his future children will become a mighty people. They will be a blessing to every family on earth. “ ‘I am with you,’ ” the voice says, “ ‘and I will protect you everywhere you go. . . . I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised’ ” (Genesis 28:15, ERV).

Ellen G. White tells how Paul himself, many hundreds of years later, “saw the same ladder that Jacob saw in his dream. The ladder is a word picture for Jesus. Jesus connects earth with heaven and humans with God. Paul’s faith grows strong as he remembers how the early fathers of his people and prophets, or God’s special messengers, trusted in Jesus. Jesus is Paul’s support and his hope. Paul lays down his life for this same Jesus.”—The Acts of the Apostles, page 512, adapted.

Jacob awakes, and he says to himself: “ ‘Surely the LORD is in this place, and I did not know it’ ” (Genesis 28:16, NKJV). What happened here fills Jacob with fear and wonder. He will never forget the place. He gives it a name. Then he swears an oath. He promises to be loyal to God for the rest of his life.

`What can we learn from this story about how God, in Jesus, is always trying to reach sinners? Why must this Bible truth be an important part of Christian education?`