---
title:  JESUS THE TEACHER
date:   03/11/2020
---

Which first verse in the New Testament is the most famous? Of course, it is John 1:1: “Before the world began, the Word [Jesus] was there. The Word was with God, and the Word was God” (John 1:1, ERV). John 1:1 soon takes you to this powerful verse: “The Word became a human being. He made his home with us. . . . And the Word was full of grace [loving-favor] and truth” (John 1:14, NIrV).

`Read John 1:1–14. What do these verses tell us about who Jesus is and what He is doing here? What should this tell us about why Jesus is the best example of a teacher?`

God talked to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. God talked to Jacob in the middle of nowhere. This same God comes to live on this earth as a Man. The New Testament tells us that God was shown in Jesus. From Jesus, we can learn about God’s plan for us and His holy way. Why? Because Jesus is God.

John 1 also tells us how John the Baptist is a very powerful teacher. Even religious leaders from Jerusalem think that John may be someone special. But John is preparing the way for Someone more wonderful than himself. Someone very special is about to come. When He does, John the Baptist will not be good enough to “be the slave who unties the strings on his sandals” (John 1:27, ERV).

Then John sees Jesus. Then John announces that Jesus is the Son of God. That day, and the next day, John says Jesus is the Lamb of God. Two of John the Baptist’s followers decide to follow Jesus. When Jesus asks them what they want, they say, “ ‘Rabbi, where are you staying?’ (‘Rabbi’ means ‘Teacher.’)” (John 1:38, ERV).

Jesus, then, is a Rabbi, a Teacher. But Jesus is not the same as any other teacher. Again, He is God. So, God came down to humans as a human. In a human body, Jesus worked as a Rabbi, or a Teacher. No wonder Ellen G. White named Jesus “the best Teacher who ever lived on this earth.”—Signs of the Times, June 10, 1886. Of course, He was. This Teacher is God Himself.

`Jesus is God. So, we can learn from Him the best ways of teaching Bible truth. Why are the things we say and do as teachers important? What can we learn from Jesus?`

_Jesus is “the best Teacher who ever lived on this earth.”_
