---
title:  THE WOMAN WHO WILL NOT GIVE UP
date:   04/11/2020
---

One story in Jesus’ life shows us a woman who will not give up. Jesus does not answer her right away. But she does not stop asking Jesus for help.

`Read the story about the Canaanite woman (Matthew 15:21–28; Mark 7:24–30). Do you see that Jesus’ followers are not patient with her? It looks as if Jesus Himself pays no attention to her. What do you think about the woman’s bold spirit? What does this story teach us about the way that Jesus teaches people?`

Jesus is near Tyre and Sidon. He goes into a land filled with strangers who hate each other. The Greek-speaking people who live in cities look down on the Jewish farmers in the country. The Jewish farmers look down on the Greek-speaking people who live in the cities. The two groups don not like each other. Shortly before this time, Herod is the governor of Galilee. Galilee is Jesus’ homeland. Herod is the same as a puppet. Rome controls what Herod does. Jesus and John share the ideas about God’s kingdom. So, John’s death shows Jesus the real danger He is in if He keeps preaching. Jesus goes inside a house, hoping no one will know He is there (Mark 7:24). But the Canaanite woman finds Him.

In that day, a woman was not allowed to talk for herself or ask for what she wanted. What is more, this woman belongs to a race group that the Jews do not like. So, this does not help the woman’s chances for success at all. But the woman’s daughter is sick. The woman wants help. So, she keeps asking for help.

At first, Jesus behaves as if He does not want to help her. “ ‘It is not fair to take the children’s food and throw it to the dogs,’ ” Jesus says (Matthew 15:26, NRSV).

But something wonderful happens. The woman knows all about dogs. The Jews do not. They do not even keep dogs as pets. The woman says, “ ‘Yes, Lord, but even the dogs eat the pieces of food that fall from their master’s table’ ” (Matthew 15:27, ERV). Her answer changes everything. Her faith touches Jesus’ heart. He heals her child.

`“ ‘You will get what you asked for’ ” (Matthew 15:28, ERV). What do these words mean? What should we do when things don’t go the way we want?`

_“ ‘Yes, Lord, but even the dogs eat the pieces of food that fall from their master’s table.’ ”_
