---
title:  A STUDENT WHO UNDERSTANDS
date:   05/11/2020
---

Jesus and His followers turn to Jerusalem. At this time, Herod and the Jewish religious leaders are worried about Jesus. They fear that Jesus may be a danger to them the same as John the Baptist was. Jesus’ followers include the poor and other people who deeply want to see things change for the better.

Jesus wants more than anything to bring hope to the people living on earth. But He knows that the people with the most power will do everything possible to stop His work. These leaders do not want Jesus to succeed.

Some people are on Jesus’ side. This group of people includes Jesus’ 12 followers. They are Jesus’ special students. The Twelve really want Jesus to succeed. At the same time, they are confused, or “blind.” Mark 8:31–33 shows us why. The Master Teacher gives His students a test. He wants them to “see,” or understand, things that are hard for them to see. In many spiritual ways, Jesus’ followers are blind to what is most important (read Mark 8:37).

This is what happens right before Jesus meets a blind man who **can** “see”!

`Read the story in Mark 10:46–52 about Jesus healing Bartimaeus. Bartimaeus is a blind beggar. Do you see how much mercy that Jesus shows Bartimaeus? How does the blind man’s wish to “see” lead to his decision to “follow” Jesus on the road to Jerusalem? Do you think that Mark is trying to show us how Bartimaeus and Jesus’ other followers are different? How does this story help you to understand why you should open your heart to Jesus?`

Bartimaeus wants to see. He wants to see the curl in a baby’s hair and the color of ripe wheat in the field. But seeing is more than just what we can look at with our eyes. Seeing also is about understanding spiritual truth. It is about understanding what Jesus, the Expert Teacher, says. Seeing with your eyes is important. Jesus knows this. He also knows that every person’s deepest wish is for a new and better life.

`Read Hebrews 5:12–14. What are these verses teaching us about the best education we can have?`

_Seeing also is about understanding spiritual truth. It is about understanding what Jesus, the Expert Teacher, says._
