---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   06/11/2020
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Test of Discipleship,” pages 57–65, in Steps to Christ.

Ellen G. White tells us what happens when we fully accept Jesus: “We want to be the same as He is in our hearts. We want His Spirit to live in us. We want to follow His plan for our lives. We want to please Jesus in everything we do.”—Steps to Christ, page 58, adapted. With Jesus in our hearts, we will “enjoy our work.”—Steps to Christ, page 59, adapted. Now, read the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5–7. This sermon shows us Jesus’ most important teachings for His students. His kingdom is built on these important rules.

**DISCUSSION QUESTIONS**:

`1. God talked with Adam and Eve. He talked with Jacob. God talks with us too. God knows our deepest wishes, just as He knew what was in Bartimaeus’s heart. God wants us to think about who we are and where we are going. Knowing all this, think about the ways we teach the Bible to our kids and to each other. What makes Bible teaching exciting and not boring? How can we teach the Bible so that it makes people want to give their lives to God?`

`2. “Where are you in your life’s journey?” Is this question too personal? Or do you think it can help to talk about the answer with people you trust? How does the idea about the church as the “body of Christ” (1 Corinthians 12:27, KJV) help us answer this question? Why can our conversations with each other help us learn more about what Jesus wants us to know?`

`3. As soon as Bartimaeus can see, he “follows” Jesus on the road to Jerusalem. On this road, Bartimaeus heard Jesus’ wisdom every day. For sure, Bartimaeus wanted people to see Jesus living in his heart. We can believe that following Jesus filled Bartimaeus with joy, as Steps to Christ put it. Why do you think that following the important rules in the Sermon on the Mount will fill someone with joy?`

`4. How can you tell what is good and what is evil? What helps us to tell how they are different? Why is what we do with this knowledge more important than having this knowledge itself?`

_With Jesus in our hearts, we will enjoy all the work that we must do._
