---
title:  Less Than Your Iniquity Deserves
date:   07/11/2016
---

### Less Than Your Iniquity Deserves
“ ‘Can you search out the deep things of God? Can you find out the limits of the Almighty? They are higher than heaven—what can you do? Deeper than Sheol—what can you know? Their measure is longer than the earth and broader than the sea’ ” (Job 11:7–9, NKJV; see also Isa. 40:12–14).

`What truth is being expressed, and why is it important for us always to remember it?`

The words here are beautiful expressions of the fact that there is so much about God we don’t know and that all of our efforts to search Him out by ourselves will still leave us knowing so little. It’s interesting that one of the twentieth century’s most famous philosophers, the late Richard Rorty, basically argued that we are never going to understand reality and truth, and so we ought to give up the attempt. Instead of trying to understand reality, Rorty argued, all we can do is try to cope with it. How fascinating: 2,600 years of the Western philosophical tradition culminates in this expression of defeat. If all our searching leaves us in the dark about the nature of the reality that we live in, then who “by searching” is going to understand the Creator—the one who made that reality to begin with, and so is even greater than it? Rorty essentially affirmed what we just read from the Bible.

Yet these texts, profound as they are, were from a speech from Zophar, the third of Job’s acquaintances, and he used those words as part of a faulty argument against Job.

`Read Job 11:1–20. What is right with what Zophar is saying, but what is wrong with his overall argument?`

It’s so hard to understand how someone could come up to a man suffering as Job is and say to him, basically, you are getting what you deserve. No, in fact, you are getting less than you deserve. What’s even worse is that he is doing it, as were the two others, all in an attempt to vindicate the goodness and the character of God.
    
`Sometimes, merely knowing truths about the character of God does not automatically make us reflect it. What more do we need in order to reflect God’s character?`