---
title:  Church Life During New Testament Times
date:   14/07/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Acts 2:42–46; Acts 4:34, 35; Acts 3:1–26; Acts 4:1–18; Acts 5:1–11; Acts 5:34–39.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “Day after day they went to the house of God together. In their houses they ate their food together. Their hearts were happy. They gave thanks to God and all the people respected them. The Lord added to the group each day those [people] who were being saved from the punishment of sin” (Acts 2:46, 47, NLV). 

THE FIRST CHRISTIANS believe that Jesus will come back soon. Jesus’ followers ask Him when His kingdom will start (Acts 1:6–8). Jesus’ answer makes them think that His kingdom will start when the Holy Spirit comes and when the church finishes sharing the Good News about Jesus with all the people on the earth. That is why Jesus’ believers think that the time for God’s kingdom to come starts at Pentecost. Pentecost is the time when God pours His Holy Spirit on the church. Then the church shares the Good News with everyone the earth. True, Jesus’ followers do not go out to everyone on the earth. Instead, the people on the earth come to the apostles. The apostles are the leaders Jesus chooses to lead His church. 

What does the church do when they think Jesus is about to come back? They sell everything they own. They study about Jesus and help the poor. Then problems start in the church. Also, people outside the church attack it. God works hard to hold His church together. Because of God’s help, the faith of God’s people during this time stays strong.