---
title:  Teaching And Friendship In The Church
date:   15/07/2018
---

First, Luke says that God pours His Spirit on His church. Then Luke talks about everyday life in the church in Jerusalem. Luke tells us the believers do four things: (1) they “spent their time listening to the teaching of the apostles [leaders and teachers]. [2] They [the believers] shared everything with each other. [3] They ate together and [4] prayed together” (Acts 2:42, ERV). In Acts 2:45, Luke says the believers teach in the temple in Jerusalem. But they eat and pray together in each other’s homes. 

The believers study very carefully the truths about Jesus that they learn from the apostles. The Spirit fills the believers with excitement. They want to learn everything from the apostles. Many miracles help the new believers accept the apostles’ teachings as truth (Acts 2:43).

Deep spiritual friendships between believers also shows their deep love for God. The believers are always together in the temple or in each other’s homes. They share meals together. They celebrate the Lord’s Supper together. They pray together (Acts 2:42, 46). By these daily celebrations, the first Christians show that they believe Jesus will come back soon. Then they will be together with Jesus again in His kingdom (Matthew 26:29).

Believers’ homes are a very important part of church life. Yes, the believers continue to go to the temple to worship. On Sabbaths, these Jewish Christians go with other Jews to synagogues (James 2:2). Synagogues are Jewish “churches” or places of worship. But true Christian worship happens in the believers’ homes in New Testament times. 

`Read Acts 2:44, 45 and Acts 4:34, 35. What is an important part of Christian friendship in New Testament times?`The Jewish believers think the end of time is very near. So, they decide that the things they own are not very important. They share their things with the very poor among them. They believe Jesus will take care of their needs in His kingdom (Luke 22:29, 30). Sharing helps the believers feel close to each other. They love each other as a family. They became an example of Christian sharing.

`In what ways do you share the things God gives you?`