---
title:  Peter And John Heal A Man Who Cannot Walk
date:   16/07/2018
---

In Acts 3:1, Peter and John go to the temple at 3 PM. That is the time for daily prayer. In this verse, we learn something important about Peter and John. Peter and John do not go to the temple at this time only to teach or to make new believers. Instead, Peter and John go to the temple at 3 PM every day because they never stop following the Jewish ways of life (Acts 20:16; Acts 21:17–26). There, at the temple, Peter and John do a wonderful miracle (Acts 3:1–10). This miracle gives Peter the chance to preach another sermon about Jesus. 

`Read Acts 3:12–26. As these verses show us, what are some of the most important ideas in Peter’s sermon?`

The first Christians preach about five ideas: (1) Jesus suffered for our sins. He is the Messiah. The Messiah is the Savior that God chose to free His people from sin (Acts 3:18). (2) God woke Jesus up from the dead and brought Him back to life (Acts 3:15). (3) Jesus went to heaven, where God honored Him (Acts 3:13). (4) Jesus will come again (Acts 3:20). (5) We must turn away from sin. God needs us to turn away from sin so that He can forgive us (Acts 3:19). 

In many ways, we preach this same message today. The time and place that we live in today is different from the time of the apostles. The apostles were leaders and teachers. Jesus chose the apostles to lead the church after He went to heaven. The apostles continued to live a Jewish way of life. So, the Jews who accepted Jesus only had to change from following the Old Agreement with God to following His New Agreement. As Christians, they needed to accept Jesus as Savior. They also needed to experience the new birth. 

Now we live in a different time and place from the first Jewish believers in Jesus. But our message is almost the same as theirs: (1) Jesus died for our sins. (2) He woke up from the dead and came back to life. (3) He will come back again. Jesus alone can save us. That is why we must make Jesus the center of our preaching about the Three Angels’ Messages in Revelation 14. We must preach that Jesus died on the cross. We must preach that He woke up from the dead. And we must preach that He will be coming back soon.