---
title:  Attacks On God’s Church
date:   17/07/2018
---

Jesus’ followers preach the Good News about Jesus to the Jews in Jerusalem. Their preaching is a big success. Many Jews accept Jesus and join the new church. The new church grows very fast. The leaders of the Jewish temple get angry when they see the church’s success. The top leader of the Jerusalem temple is the high priest. The high priest is the religious leader for all the Jewish people. The high priest and most of his helpers are Sadducees. The Sadducees were a Jewish religious group. They did not believe that God will wake up the dead. So, they get very upset when Peter and John teach that God woke Jesus up from the dead. The temple soldiers arrest Peter and John. The next day, the soldiers bring Peter and John to the high priest and the Sanhedrin (Acts 4:1–7). The Sanhedrin is the group of religious leaders for the Jews. 

`Read the story in Acts 4:1–18. How does Peter answer the religious leaders in this story? What does Peter says that makes the religious leaders so afraid?` 


Peter says things that make the Jewish leaders afraid they will lose their power. Peter tells the leaders that he healed the crippled man in the name of Jesus. Peter also tells them that only Jesus can save us. Peter and John stand bravely before the most powerful Jewish rulers. But Peter and John serve a power that is higher than the Sanhedrin. Peter and John are only fishermen from Galilee. They did not study in the Jewish schools. But they speak with courage and power. The leaders do not understand that this power is from the Holy Spirit. The Spirit fills Peter and John. Jesus said that the Spirit would fill them (Matthew 10:16–20).

The religious leaders cannot say that Peter and John did not heal the crippled man. After all, the crippled man is walking around. Everyone can see him! So, the rulers tell Peter and John to stop preaching. The rulers are afraid of the believers’ message and their new religion. Peter’s words to the leaders shine the same as jewels: “ ‘What do you think is right? What [does] God want? Should we obey you or God? We cannot be quiet. We must tell people about what we have seen and heard’ ” (Acts 4:19, 20, ERV).