---
title:  Ananias And Sapphira
date:   18/07/2018
---

The first Christians are very unselfish and giving. They give all they own to the church to give to the poor. But no member is forced by any of the church leaders to give. New believers do not need to give their things to the church before they can join. But there are many examples of people who give because they want to. These examples of unselfish giving make the whole church want to give too. One example is Barnabas (Acts 4:35, 37). We learn more about him later in Acts.

But there are also examples of selfishness in the church that happen at the same time that the Jewish leaders begin to attack the church. These selfish examples have the power to cause terrible harm to the growing church. In fact, they have the power to split the growing church apart. 

`Read the story in Acts 5:1–11. What lessons does this story teach us?`

Ananias and Sapphira try to keep some of the money for themselves. But that is not the problem. The real problem is that they lie to the church. Ananias and Sapphira’s sin is planned. Peter says to Sapphira, “ ‘How could you two have talked together about lying to the Holy Spirit?’ ” (Acts 5:9, NLV). Ananias and Sapphira do not need to sell their land and give the money to the church. But they chose to sell it. Maybe the real reason they sell it is to look good in the eyes of the church leaders. 

This explanation may help us understand why God punishes Ananias and Sapphira in such an awful way. Their actions are a bad example to other believers. They show the church that loyalty to God is not important. 

Ananais and Sapphira sin. God may choose not to punish sin right away as He did with Ananias and Sapphira. But sin is always terrible in God’s eyes (Ezekiel 18:20; Romans 6:23). The fact that God does not punish our sins right away should show us how kind He is (2 Peter 3:9).

`How can we be careful not to “test the Spirit of the Lord” (Acts 5:9, ERV) as Ananias and Sapphira did?`