---
title:  The Second Arrest
date:   19/07/2018
---

God uses the first church leaders to do many things. He uses them to judge Ananias and Sapphira, as we learned yesterday. God also uses the church leaders to show His mercy and love to sinners. The church leaders do many healing miracles (Acts 5:12–16). These miracles show that God’s Spirit worked with the church. People even believe that Peter’s shadow can heal people! Luke does not say that Peter’s shadow really heals people. But people think so. Sometimes people believe false ideas about God’s miracles. But God continues to work in these people’s lives. God continues to give them His grace. Grace is God’s gift of mercy, forgiveness, and power over sin. 

The Holy Spirit fills the church leaders more and more. Another name for these church leaders is apostles. The apostles were the men Jesus chose to lead and teach the church after He went to heaven. The more the Holy Spirit fills the apostles, then the more miracles the apostles can do. The Jewish religious leaders get very jealous of the apostles and their power from God. So, the Jewish leaders arrest the apostles a second time (Acts 5:17, 18). But the apostles escape. Their escape is a miracle too (Acts 5:19–24). Then Peter makes a brave speech. He says that Christians should “ ‘obey God, not men [people]!’ ” (Acts 5:29, ICB). Then many of the Jewish leaders started to think that maybe God gave His power to the apostles.

`Read Acts 5:34–39. As these verses show us, how does Gamaliel convince the leaders not to kill the apostles?`  

Many Jews respect Gamaliel. He reminds the Jewish leaders about two other groups in Jewish history. Those groups gather many followers and cause trouble. But in the end, the leaders of these groups are killed. Those groups end when the leaders died. So, Gamaliel says if the Christian religion was started only by humans, then the new religion will soon end. But if the Christian religion was from God, then nothing can stop it. So, the Jewish rulers listen to Gamaliel and let the apostles go. But they beat the apostles first. Then the Jewish leaders tell them to stop preaching about Jesus.

`As this story shows us, how does good advice help us?`