---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   20/07/2018
---

“We are managers of God’s gifts to us. He gives us His gifts to serve His church. Jesus left us in charge of these gifts after He went back to heaven. Jesus expects us to watch and wait for Him to come back to earth. So, we must be loyal managers of everything that God trusts us with.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [messages] for the Church, volume 8, page 37, adapted.

“God’s people need to understand that the promises they make to God are very holy. People do not think they need to keep their promises to God the way they keep their promises with other people. But are our promises to God less holy and legal? True, our promises to God are not written down in legal contracts. We do not break our country’s laws if we refuse to keep our promise to God. But will a Christian refuse to do what he has promised? No legal contract we sign is more important than any promise we make to God.”—Ellen G. White Comments [thoughts], The SDA Bible Commentary [explanation], volume 6, page 1056, adapted.

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Jesus leaves two important gifts for His followers. The first gift is His promise that He will come back soon. The second gift is the work Jesus gave His followers to tell everyone on the earth the Good News that He saves them. How does this promise and this work help us serve God more fully while we preach the Good News to everyone?` 

`2.	Someone said: “We should be ready for Jesus to come back today. Until then, we should continue working for Him every day with all our might.” Why is this thought wise and important? How should this wisdom lead us as we do God’s work?`

`3.	Why must Jesus’ life, death, and His waking up from the dead be at the center of everything we teach about Him?`

`4.	Is it easy for us to know what really is in the hearts of people? What does the story of Ananias and Sapphira teach us?`