---
title:  Who Is the Holy Spirit?
date:   21/01/2017
---

### Who Is the Holy Spirit?

### READ FOR THIS WEEK’S LESSON
John 16:13, 14; Romans 8:14–16; Romans 15:13; John 14:6; John 17:17; Romans 5:5.

> <p>MEMORY VERSE</p>
“ ‘But the Father will send the Friend in my name to help you. The Friend is the Holy Spirit. He will teach you all things. He will remind you of everything I have said to you’ ” (John 14:26, NIrV).

THE BIBLE DESCRIBES THE HOLY SPIRIT. But sometimes the Bible uses wording that makes it seem that the Holy Spirit is not a person. Some of this language includes word-pictures or symbols, such as wind or fire. As a result, some people have concluded that the Holy Spirit is not a real person at all. Instead, they view Him as a divine force or power. They think He is more like an electric current that flows into us and gives us strength. It is easy enough to find verses that seem to prove this view. The real question is, Are there equally strong verses in the Bible that show the Holy Spirit has the emotions (strong feelings), thoughts, and behavior of a person? 

There are verses in the Bible that give us a more complete picture of who the Holy Spirit is. This week we will study these verses. They will help us to learn more about the personality of the Holy Spirit. This truth will help us to understand better the divine purpose of God’s Holy Spirit in our lives. And this truth will help us to gain a deeper understanding of why it is important to believe that the Holy Spirit is a Person. After all, we must think the right thoughts about the Holy Spirit. Only then will we be able to give Him the love, worship, trust, and obedience that He deserves.