---
title:  WHAT JESUS SAYS ABOUT THE PERSONALITY OF THE HOLY SPIRIT
date:   22/01/2017
---

### WHAT JESUS SAYS ABOUT THE PERSONALITY OF THE HOLY SPIRIT

(John 16:13, 14)

`Read John 16:13, 14; John 15:26, 27; and John 14:17, 26. How does Jesus describe the personality of the Holy Spirit in these verses? What does it mean to you that Jesus calls the Holy Spirit a Helper or Comforter (parakletos in Greek)?`

According to Jesus, the Holy Spirit guides, speaks, hears, discloses (makes truth known), and glorifies (John 16:13, 14, NASB). The Holy Spirit also teaches and reminds us (John 14:26, NIV). He lives in us (John 14:17, NIV); He testifies (John 15:24, 26, NIV); and He convicts (John 16:8, NIV). These actions sound more like the actions of an independent Person who thinks for Himself. They do not sound like the actions of a force that has no feelings.

`Read John 14:16–18. How would Jesus’ promise come true? What does it mean that the disciples would not be left alone?` 

Jesus cares for His followers. He would not leave His disciples as orphans. He promises to send the Holy Spirit. Jesus says here that He will send “another Helper” (NKJV) or “Comforter.” The words that Jesus uses here are very important. He promises to send another helper. Not a different one. The Greek word for “another” is allos. In the Greek language of the New Testament, allos means that Christ will send another Comforter. This Comforter is a separate Person. But He has the same character as God. In other words, Jesus promises to send One like Himself. This Person is One who will take Jesus’ place. The Comforter is One who will continue to do Christ’s work in us. The Spirit will be Christ’s representative.

This work of the Holy Spirit is the work of a helper or comforter. The Greek word that the Bible uses here for “helper” or “comforter” is parakletos (John 14:16). It describes someone who is called to give us support and to help us as a person would. So, just as Jesus is a Person, the Holy Spirit is also a Person. The Bible supports this idea by describing the behavior of the Holy Spirit in a personal way (read John 14:26; John 15:26; Acts 15:28; Romans 8:26; 1 Corinthians 12:11; and 1 Timothy 4:1). 

`Why is it comforting to know that the Holy Spirit is a personality instead of a force?`

##### DEFINITIONS

1. **character**—who someone is; the thoughts, feelings, and actions make up a person’s character.