---
title:  WHAT MAKES THE HOLY SPIRIT A PERSON? PART 1
date:   23/01/2017
---

### WHAT MAKES THE HOLY SPIRIT A PERSON? PART 1
 
(Romans 8:14–16)

`Read the following verses: Romans 8:14–16, 27; Romans 15:30; 1 Corinthians 2:10; Acts 8:29; Acts 10:19, 20; and Acts 28:25. Are these verses talking about a force with no personality? Why, or why not?`

Can an impersonal (not a person) force step in and act as a go-between before God on our behalf (for us)? Does an impersonal spirit or force have the power to show us things about God? Does an impersonal force have the power to speak? All the verses we just read make much more sense if we believe the Holy Spirit is a Person and not an impersonal force. 

`Read the following verses: Ephesians 4:30; Acts 5:3, 9; 1 Corinthians 12:11; and Romans 15:30. How do these verses show that the Holy Spirit feels, thinks, and behaves like a real Person?` 

A personality is made up of three things: knowledge (or understanding), feeling, and will. For example, only a person can feel sorrow. Only a person can be deceived (tricked) and lied to. Only a person has the ability to choose to do what he or she wants. (Having a will to freely choose to do what one wants is perhaps one of the most important parts of having a personality.) And only a person has the power to love. After all, true love is not impersonal. Love comes with a very personal touch. 

All of these parts of a personality show that the Holy Spirit knows who He is. He has a will of His own. And He freely chooses to act on His thoughts. He is able to love. He is not a flow of power. He is not a force with no personality. Instead, the Holy Spirit is spoken of in these personal ways in the Bible. Why? It is because God Himself is a personal God. And the Holy Spirit is God. 

“The Holy Spirit has a personality. But suppose He did not. Then He could not witness to us and with us that we are the children of God. He also must be a Divine Person. But, again, suppose if He were not. Then He could not search out the secrets hidden in the mind of God.”—Adapted from Ellen G. White, Evangelism, page 617.

`The Bible views the Holy Spirit as a Person. How does this view help define and shape our relationship with Him? What would be different if the Holy Spirit were just an impersonal power instead of God Himself?` 

#####DEFINITIONS

2. **will**—a person’s choice or desire to do something in a particular situation.
3. **Evangelism**—the act of going from place to place to spread the good news of Jesus Christ.