---
title:  WHAT MAKES THE HOLY SPIRIT A PERSON? PART 2
date:   24/01/2017
---

### WHAT MAKES THE HOLY SPIRIT A PERSON? PART 2

(Romans 15:13)

We face a challenge in understanding who the Holy Spirit is. It is hard to imagine Him as a Person. He cannot be seen or felt or touched. We can imagine God as a Father with a body that can be seen or felt or touched (if not by our fallen eyes and hands, then certainly by His Son’s). Many also have a clear picture of Jesus from the Gospels. He took our human nature (our sinful desires). He appeared to us in human form. 

The Holy Spirit, however, is shown in a very different way. He has no physical body. So, He seems to be One we cannot touch. For this reason, He seems to be harder to understand than the Father and the Son. 

As a result, some conclude that the Holy Spirit is only an impersonal power. But so far, we have seen that this idea does not really tell the truth about the Holy Spirit. There are statements in the Bible about the Holy Spirit. But suppose the Holy Spirit were just an impersonal force or power. Then these statements in the Bible would make no sense.  

`Carefully read Romans 15:13 and 1 Corinthians 2:4. Try replacing the meaning or words used for the Holy Spirit with the impersonal word power. What happens to the meaning? Do these verses still make sense? Why do these verses make sense only if the Holy Spirit is truly a Person?` 

Acts 15:28 begins by declaring, “ ‘it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us’ ” (NASB). This verse would make no sense if the Holy Spirit were only a power or an impersonal force. The verse instead points to another personal Being. So, as the Father and Son are both personal Beings, so is the Spirit.

Believers also are baptized “ ‘in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit’ ” (Matthew 28:19, NASB). But suppose we think of the first Two who are mentioned (the Father and Son) as Persons, but not the Third (the Spirit). That view does not make the best sense. Instead, we must realize all Three are part of the same One name in whom we are baptized. This is why the Holy Spirit is shown here to be equal to God the Father and God the Son. 

Ellen G. White wisely states, “There are Three Living Persons of the heavenly Trio; . . . the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.”—Adapted from Evangelism, page 615. So, she, too, is very clear about the fact that the Holy Spirit is a Person.

##### DEFINITIONS

4. **Gospels**—the first four books of the New Testament: Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.