---
title:  THE SPIRIT OF TRUTH
date:   25/01/2017
---

### THE SPIRIT OF TRUTH

(John 14:6)

`Read John 14:6 and John 17:17. What is the meaning of truth in these verses?`

In the Gospel of John, the word truth is an important one. Our understanding of truth today often is unclear. And it is hard to explain and identify. It is based more on ideas of what is right than on putting those ideas into practice. In the Western world, truth has been shaped by Greek thinkers. They lived hundreds and hundreds of years ago. But in the Bible, and clearly in John’s Gospel, truth has a personal and exact meaning: Jesus is the truth (John 14:6). God’s Written Word (the Bible) is truthful (compare with John 17:17 and Psalm 119:142). And God’s truth is made known to us in the highest and most powerful way in the Person of Jesus Christ. God has made Himself known to us through Jesus. The Bible makes this knowledge very clear to us. 

`Read John 15:26 and John 16:13. How does the Holy Spirit act or serve as “the Spirit of truth”?`

John 16:13 tells us that the Spirit of truth will guide us into all truth. And the Spirit leads us into all truth by pointing us to Jesus Christ. For example, the Spirit helps us to remember what Jesus has said (John 15:26) and done for us. The truth into which the Holy Spirit leads us, then, is very personal. The Spirit lifts up Jesus. And the Spirit leads us into a living and faithful relationship with Jesus. Jesus talked about the Spirit, too, with the woman of Samaria. He said that God must be worshiped “in spirit and in truth” (John 4:24). We are also to ask for the leading of the Holy Spirit. This is because He will lead us to Jesus. And Jesus is “ ‘the way and the truth and the life’ ” (John 14:6, NIV). 

Truth in the Bible is not an unclear theory (unproved idea). Truth involves our having a deeply personal and faithful relationship with our Creator and Redeemer (Savior). Our Creator is called the “God of truth” (compare Deuteronomy 32:4 and Psalm 31:5). So, it is right to call the Holy Spirit the “Spirit of truth” (John 14:17; John 16:13). After all, the Spirit is sent to us from God the Father (John 15:26). And where the Spirit comes from shows His personal character. It also shows that He is divine.

`What does the idea that truth is a Person mean to you? Bring your answer to class on Sabbath.`


##### DEFINITIONS

5. **compare**—to show how two or more things are the same or different.