---
title:  WHY DOES IT MATTER?
date:   26/01/2017
---

### WHY DOES IT MATTER?

(Romans 5:5)

Does the Holy Spirit have a personality? This question is very important. It is a question that affects every part of our spiritual lives in very real and practical (useful) ways. 

Suppose we think of the Holy Spirit only as a mysterious divine power. Then our thoughts will be, How can I have more of the Holy Spirit as God has planned? But suppose we think of the Holy Spirit as a Divine Person. Then we will ask, How can the Holy Spirit have more of me? The clear point is, Do you want to have the Holy Spirit? Or do you want the Holy Spirit to have you? Do you oppose His influence? Or are you willing to follow Him in joyful obedience (read Romans 8:12–14 and Galatians 5:18–24)? Do you want to use the Holy Spirit according to your plans? Or do you rely on Him? Do you let Him help you become more like Jesus Christ? Do you trust Him to do what He has in mind for you? Do you take seriously the fact that “your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit?” And are you willing to glorify God with how you live?

`Read Romans 5:5 and Ephesians 2:18, 19. In these verses, how are the Holy Spirit and God’s love connected? What effect does that love have on you personally and on the church as a whole?` 

Only persons can freely choose to cooperate with one another. We are invited, then, to work together with the Holy Spirit while He leads and changes us personally and changes God’s church as a whole. We need to accept the Holy Spirit as a Person of the Three-in-One Godhead (Father, Son, and Holy Spirit). But suppose we did not. Then it would be easier for us to ignore Him. And it would be easier to harden our hearts to His invitation. And we might also harden our hearts against His life-changing influence. We must always remember that we are fallen, sin-damaged beings. We are always in need of God’s life-changing grace.6 So, the last thing we need to do is ignore the prompting (reminding) of the Holy Spirit in our lives to do what is right. Truly, we need to give more of ourselves to Him. 

`“We cannot use the Holy Spirit. The Spirit is to use us.”—Adapted from The Desire of Ages, page 672. What do you think Ellen G. White meant by these words? How can the Holy Spirit use us? (Read Philippians 2:13.)`

##### DEFINITIONS

6. **grace**—God’s gift of mercy and forgiveness that He freely gives us to take away our sins.