---
title:  ADDITIONAL THOUGHT
date:   27/01/2017
---

#### ADDITIONAL THOUGHT

Read what Ellen G. White has to say about the Holy Spirit in The Desire of Ages, pages 669–672. Also read Evangelism, pages 613–617.

Jesus gives His disciples their calling and work in Matthew 18:20. Notice Jesus told His followers to baptize disciples in the “name” (singular [meaning one]) of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. He did not say “names” of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, but just “name,” from the Greek word onoma. This wording is more powerful proof that the God we worship is a Three-in-One God. (“ ‘Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one!’ ” [Deuteronomy 6:4, NKJV]).

This week’s lesson made an important point. No one questions that the Father and the Son are Persons and have personalities. So, why should anyone question the personality and Personhood of the Holy Spirit? In the Bible, we have the love, care, and comfort of God Himself working in us and through us. That is who the Holy Spirit is and what He does. How much nicer it is to know that this power is a Person, just as much as the Father and Jesus are. Yes, it is hard to understand fully. But at the same time, we cannot fully understand something as basic as light or wind. So then, it makes sense that we shall not be able to understand fully who the Holy Spirit is.

#### DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:

`In class, go over your answer to Wednesday’s question about truth being a Person, Jesus Christ. What does this idea mean? Why would Jesus be the Truth? How do we understand “truth” as a Person instead of as an idea or a theory?` 

`Ellen G. White wrote, “We need to realize that the Holy Spirit is as much a person as God. The Holy Spirit is walking through these grounds.”—Adapted from Evangelism, page 616. What does this statement tell us about how real the Holy Spirit is?`

`Go back over some of the things we learned this week that make the Holy Spirit a Person. Which things are most comforting to you? Which thing about Him means the most to you? Share in class why you chose what you did.` 

`What do you better relate to—an impersonal force or a personality? What does your answer teach you about your faith and yourself?` 