---
title:  The Assyrians Are Beaten
date:  06/02/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Isaiah 36–39; 2 Chronicles 32:1-22; 2 Kings 18:17-2 Kings 20:21; Zechariah 3:1-5.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “ ‘Lord of heaven’s armies, you are the God of Israel. Your throne is between the gold creatures [angels] with wings. Only you are the God of all the kingdoms of [on] the earth. You made the heavens and the earth’ ” (Isaiah 37:16, ICB).

MAKE A PICTURE OF THIS STORY IN YOUR MIND. A skinny man walks barefoot with his two sons. Another family loads all their belongings into a cart pulled by an ox. The ox looks as if it has not eaten anything in a long time. Some people do not have a cart at all. So, they carry all that they own on their shoulders. Soldiers are everywhere. They knock down a city gate. Some soldiers shoot arrows at the people on top of the city wall. Dead bodies are everywhere.

Now make a new picture. A king sits on his throne. People bring him treasures and prisoners of war. Some prisoners beg the king for mercy. Men who wrote about this king always started their records with these words: “Sennacherib, king of the whole earth, king of Assyria.”–John Malcolm Russell, The Writing on the Wall (Winona Lake, Indian: Eisenbrauns, 1999), pages 137, 138, adapted.

The pictures you made in your mind were real pictures on the walls of the palace of Sennacherib. Today, these same pictures are in the British Museum. They tell a surprising story about the suffering of the people of God.