---
title:  King Hezekiah Gets Ready For War 
date:  07/02/2021
---

`What happens to Judah? For the answer, read 2 Kings 18:13; 2 Chronicles 32:1; and Isaiah 36:1.`

King Ahaz dies. Then his son Hezekiah becomes king. Hezekiah obeys God. The kingdom of Judah is no longer fully free when Hezekiah becomes its king. That is because King Ahaz paid Assyria to protect Judah against Syria and Northern Israel. So, when Hezekiah becomes king, the kingdom of Judah is forced to continue paying “protection money” to Assyria to keep Judah safe (see 2 Chronicles 28:16–21). Then Sargon the Second, the king of Assyria, dies in war. The new king of Assyria is Sennacherib. He becomes king in 705 B.C. Assyria was weak during this change of power. At this time, Hezekiah became the leader of a group of small countries near Judah (2 Kings 18:7). Together, they fought against Assyrian control.

But King Hezekiah makes a mistake. He does not think Assyria is very strong. He is wrong. Sennacherib gets control of his kingdom. Then, in 701 B.C., the powerful Assyrian army strikes Syria-Palestine and hits Judah hard.

`How does Hezekiah get ready for war with Assyria? For the answer, read 2 Chronicles 32:1–8.`

Hezekiah sees that Sennacherib wants to take Jerusalem by force. So, Hezekiah gets ready for war with Assyria. Hezekiah makes Jerusalem and his army strong. Hezekiah also makes sure that the water that flows into the city is protected and safe (read also 2 Kings 20:20 and 2 Chronicles 32:30). Today, if you visit the water tunnel of Siloam, you can read a sign about how it was built. A water tunnel is a long pipe or tube that carries water from one place to another. Bible experts believe that the Siloam water tunnel was built during the time that Hezekiah got ready for war with Assyria.

Hezekiah also was a strong spiritual leader at this time. He helped his people to have courage at this awful time. “King Hezekiah makes up his mind to do his part. He will do everything he can to get ready to fight against the enemy. After he does all that he can do, the king calls his army together. Then he tells them to have courage.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 351, adapted.