---
title:  Lies 
date:  08/02/2021
---

The leaders of Assyria are very mean. They are also smart. They want two things: money and power. They do not wish to destroy cities; they wish to control them (compare Isaiah 10:13, 14). Why destroy a city if you can talk its people into surrendering first? This is what Sennacherib thinks. While he is at war against Lachish, Sennacherib sends his “rabshakeh” to take Jerusalem. A rabshakeh is a high officer. What weapon does the Rabshakeh use to take the city of Jerusalem? A sword? No, he uses lies.

`What lies does the rabshakeh use to make the people of Judah afraid? For the answer, read Isaiah 36:2–20; read also 2 Kings 18:17–35 and 2 Chronicles 32:9–19.`

The rabshakeh gives some powerful reasons why Judah should give up without a fight. (1) Judah cannot trust Egypt to help them. Egypt is weak. (2) Judah cannot depend on the Lord to help them because Hezekiah made God angry by removing the high places and altars in all of Judah. Then Hezekiah told the people to worship at only one altar in Jerusalem. (3) The Lord is on the side of Assyria, not Judah. (4) The Lord told Sennacherib to destroy Judah. (5) Judah does not have enough trained men to fight the 2,000 men on horses in the Assyrian army.

The rabshakeh tells Judah to give up now. (6) You do not have enough food to eat and water to drink. We will be fair to you. Hezekiah cannot save you. The gods of all the other countries did not save their people from Assyria. So, you can be sure that your God will not save you too.

`Is the rabshakeh telling the truth?`

Much of what the rabshakeh said is true. Two reasons make his words powerful. (1) The rabshakeh just came from Lachish, only 30 miles away. The Assyrians show at Lachish what they will do to any city that dares to fight against them. (2) The rabshakeh has a powerful part of the Assyrian army with him (Isaiah 36:2). So, in human eyes Judah is in deep trouble (compare Isaiah 10:8–11). The rabshakeh is also right that Hezekiah destroyed the altars. But does this change upset the Lord? The Lord is the only hope His people have left. Will He, and can He, save His people? It is up to God to answer this question!