---
title:  Afraid But Not Forgotten 
date:  09/02/2021
---

`How do the clever words of the rabshakeh make Hezekiah and his people feel? For the answer, read 2 Kings 18:37–19:4 and Isaiah 36:21–37:4.`

The heart of Hezekiah is filled with fear. He is very upset. So, he turns to God. His heart is empty of all pride. Hezekiah asks Isaiah for help. Isaiah is a prophet. A prophet is a special messenger from God. The father of Hezekiah did not pay attention to advice from Isaiah. But Hezekiah is ready to do what Isaiah says.

`How does God encourage Hezekiah? For the answer, read Isaiah 37:5–7.`

The message from God is short. But is enough. God is on the side of His people. Isaiah says that Sennacherib will hear news that will take him away from his attack on Judah. This happens right away.

But Sennacherib does not give up so easily. He sends Hezekiah a message: “ ‘Don’t be fooled [tricked] by the god you trust when he says, “Jerusalem will not be defeated [beaten] by the king of Assyria.” You have heard what the kings of Assyria did to all the other countries. We destroyed them completely. Will you be saved? No! Did the gods of those people save them?” (Isaiah 37:10–12, ERV; read also 2 Chronicles 32:17).

This time Hezekiah goes straight to the temple. He spreads the message from Sennacherib in front of the Lord of angels. The Lord sits “ ‘as King above the Cherub angels’ ” (Isaiah 37:16, ERV; read also verses 14 and 15).

`How does the prayer of Hezekiah show what this fight between Judah and Assyria is really about? For the answer, read Isaiah 37:15–20.`

Sennacherib attacks the faith of Hezekiah. Faith in God makes Hezekiah strong. But does Hezekiah lose courage? No. He turns to God. He asks God to show Sennacherib who He is. “ ‘So please save us from the king of Assyria. Then all the other nations [countries] will know that you are the LORD, the only God’ ” (Isaiah 37:20, ERV).