---
title:  The Rest Of The Story 
date:  10/02/2021
---

Assyrian records show that Sennacherib took 46 cities. His army attacked Jerusalem. Sennacherib brags that he made Hezekiah the Jew “a prisoner in Jerusalem in his royal palace. I made Hezekiah the same as a bird in a cage.”—James B. Pritchard, editor, Ancient Near Eastern Texts Relating to the Old Testament (Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press, 1969), page 288, adapted. But none of the records of Sennacherib or the carved pictures in his palace show that he took Jerusalem. Sennacherib was a mighty king. People who fought against his power did not live very long. They died very awful deaths. But Hezekiah led countries to fight against him. And Sennacherib did not kill him or take his city.

This shows us a miracle happened. The picture carvings in the palace of Sennacherib show him taking the city of Lachish. Sennacherib wants everyone to see his success. He also wants everyone to see that he was very mighty and important. He hoped that the picture carvings will keep people from remembering that his attack against Jerusalem failed. God is the only reason that Jerusalem did not end up the same as Lachish. Sennacherib does not tell that he lost the fight with Jerusalem. But the Bible does.

`What is the rest of the story? For the answer, read Isaiah 37:21–37.`

God answers the prayer of Hezekiah. God sends him a message of encouragement. God is very angry with Sennacherib. Sennacherib dared to insult the King of kings (Isaiah 37:23). Then God keeps His promise right away. He defends Jerusalem (2 Kings 19:35–37; 2 Chronicles 32:21, 22; Isaiah 37:36–38).

A big problem needs a big miracle. God gives the miracle. Many Assyrian soldiers die: 185,000 men. So, Sennacherib has no choice. He must go home. There, he is killed (compare Isaiah’s words in Isaiah 37:7–38).

“The God of the Hebrews won the war against Sennacherib. The heart of the Assyrian king is filled with pride. God shows His power to the countries around Jerusalem. God wins honor and respect in their eyes. In Jerusalem, the hearts of the people are filled with joy.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 361, adapted. God saved His people from being destroyed. He kept hope alive.