---
title:  King Hezekiah Asks For A Sign 
date:  11/02/2021
---

The things in Isaiah 38 and Isaiah 39 happen close to the time that God saves Hezekiah from Sennacherib. As we can see from Isaiah 38:5, 6 and 2 Kings 20:6, Judah is in danger from Assyria. So, this time is just before God saves His people.

“Satan wants to kill Hezekiah and destroy Jerusalem. Satan thinks that if Hezekiah is dead then he cannot make any more changes for the better. Then Jerusalem can be destroyed more easily.”—The SDA Bible Commentary, volume 4, page 240.

`What does the quotation from Ellen G. White show us about good leadership? How important is it for the people of God to have good leaders?`

`What special sign or miracle does God give Hezekiah to make his faith strong? For the answer, read 2 Kings 20:8–10 and Isaiah 38:6–8.`

Ahaz refused to accept signs offered by God (Isaiah 7). That led to the trouble with Assyria. But now Hezekiah asks for a sign (2 Kings 20:8). So, God makes Hezekiah strong to meet the trouble that his father brought on Judah. Only God can turn back the shadow on the sundial of Ahaz. A sundial was a round disc with a triangle on top that was used in Bible times to tell time.

The Babylonians studied the stars and the way they moved. The Babylonians see the strange behavior of the sun. They wonder what it means. That is why King Merodach-baladan from Babylon sends messengers to visit Hezekiah. Then the Babylonians learn about the connection between the healing of Hezekiah and the miracle of the sundial.

Now we know why God chose this sign. Later, God will use the star of Bethlehem to bring wise men from the East to see Jesus. In the same way, God uses a change in the sun to bring messengers from Babylon to Judah in the days of Hezekiah. This is a special time for the Babylonians to learn about the true God. Merodach-baladan spends his whole time as king trying to win lasting freedom from Assyria. He needs powerful friends. So, that explains why he wants to connect with Hezekiah. The sun itself moves because of the prayer of Hezekiah. So, what can Hezekiah do to Assyria?