---
title:  Further Thought
date:  12/02/2021
---

Only God can cause the shadow on the sundial to turn back 10 degrees. [As we saw yesterday, a sundial was a round disc that was used in Bible times to tell time.] This sign showed Hezekiah that the Lord heard his prayer. “ ‘Here is a sign from me. It will show you that I will heal you, just as I promised I would. The shadow that was made by the sun has gone down ten steps on the stairway of Ahaz. I will make it go back up those ten steps.’ So the shadow went back up the ten steps it had gone down” [Isaiah 38:8–11, NIrV].”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, page 342, adapted.

“The visitors come from a faraway land. Hezekiah has a very easy chance to tell them all about the living God. God is the One who made everything and keeps it going. God saves Hezekiah from death when he has no hope! . . .

“But the heart of Hezekiah fills with pride. He wants the visitors to honor him. So, he shows them the treasures that God gave His people: ‘the silver, gold, spices and expensive perfumes. . . . He showed them everything in his palace and in his kingdom’ [Isaiah 39:2, ICB]. Hezekiah does not do this to give God glory. Hezekiah shows them his treasures so that will admire him.”—Pages 344, 345, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`How is Satan the same as the Assyrian rabshakeh? As we saw, the rabshakeh is a very powerful servant of King Sennacherib. Does Satan tell the truth when he says you have sinned (Zechariah 3:1)? How does God answer in Zechariah 3:2–5? What is our only hope against Satan’s words? For the answer, see Romans 8:1.`

` Does Satan stop blaming you when you are forgiven? For the answer, read Revelation 12:10. After God forgives you, Satan goes on saying that you belong to him because you sinned. Why does Satan say this? (Read Deuteronomy 19:16–21 that talks about the law of a lying and evil witness.)`

**Summary**: Hezekiah cries out to God in faith. God saves His people and shows who He is. God is the all-powerful King of Israel. He controls everything that happens on the earth. God destroys the ones who try to destroy His people. He also invites people who do not know Him to become His people.