---
title:  “ ‘I Pray That They Can Also Be One in Us’ ”
date:   13/10/2018
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
John 17:1–5; John 17:9–19; John 17:20–26; Mark 9:38–41; 1 John 2:3–6; John 13:34, 35.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘I pray not only for these followers but also for those who will believe in me because of their [my followers’] teaching. Father, I pray that all who believe in me can be one. You are in me and I am in you. I pray that they [everyone who believes in me] can also be one in us. Then the world [all the people on the earth] will believe that you sent me’ ” (John 17:20, 21, ERV). 

WHAT MATTERED MOST TO JESUS before He died? John answers that question in John 13–17. In these five important chapters, John tells us Jesus’ last words to His followers. Then Jesus prays (John 17). Some people say that Jesus’ prayer shows us that He is our High Priest. A high priest is a holy leader who works to save his people. 

“In this prayer, Jesus fully gives Himself to God the Father as an offering for our sins. Jesus is both our High Priest and our sin offering. Jesus prays for everyone that He will soon die for. That includes Jesus’ followers at the time and the people who will later believe in Him.”—F. F. Bruce, The Gospel [the Good News] of [from the book of] John (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 1983), page 328, adapted.

Jesus’ prayer shows His deep wish for His followers to be in agreement (John 17:9, 10). This week we will study Jesus’ prayer for His people to be joined as one in Him. We will answer these questions: What did Jesus pray for? Whom did He pray for? What does this prayer mean to us today?