---
title:  Jesus prays for Himself
date:   14/10/2018
---

Let us look more closely at Jesus’ prayer for us as our High Priest. You will remember from yesterday’s study that a high priest is a holy leader who works to save His people. Jesus’ prayer is divided into three parts. First, Jesus prays for Himself (John 17:1–5). Next, Jesus prays for His followers (John 17:6–19). Finally, Jesus prays for the people who will later believe in Him (John 17:20–25).

`Read Jesus’ prayer for Himself in John 17:1–5. What does Jesus pray for? What does this prayer mean to us?` 

Jesus asks God to help Him. In the past, Jesus said that it was not the right time for Him to die (John 2:4; John 7:30; John 8:20). But He knows that now is the right time for Him to offer to die for our sins. Jesus needs God to make Him strong. Then Jesus can complete His work on earth. This awful time in Jesus’ life is a time for prayer. 

Jesus will give His Father glory by doing everything God asks Him to do. Jesus must accept the Cross. What does that mean, “Jesus must accept the Cross”? Does it mean that Jesus had no choice? No. It means that Jesus chose to use the power God gave Him. Jesus used His power to choose to die for us. So, Jesus did not die against His wishes. He was willing to die to give His Father glory. The Cross was the reason why Jesus was born as a human. He came in a human body and chose to die on the cross for the sins of everyone on earth. 

`John 17:3 tells us what everlasting life is. What is it? What does it mean to know God?`

Jesus tells us that everlasting life comes from knowing our God. Knowing God comes from understanding what Jesus did at the Cross. We get this understanding about Jesus when we connect with God the Father. As humans, we often limit our knowledge to facts and information. But Jesus wants to show us that real knowledge is very deep. It is a real, personal connection with God. Jesus came to this earth to guide us humans in our search for knowledge about God and to help us find agreement and peace. 

`What is the difference between knowing about God and really knowing who God is?`