---
title:  Jesus prays for His followers
date:   15/10/2018
---

`In John 17:9–19, Jesus prays for His followers. What does Jesus ask God the Father to do for them?`

After Jesus prays for Himself, He prays for His followers. Jesus’ followers are in danger of losing their faith in Him in the days ahead. Jesus will no longer be with them. So, He asks God the Father to take care of them.

Jesus asks the Father to protect His followers from the evil on this earth. Jesus does not pray for the people on this earth who are against God’s plan for His people (1 John 5:19). But the earth is the place where Jesus’ followers will serve Him. So, Jesus prays that God will keep His followers safe. Yes, Jesus cares deeply about everyone. He is the Savior. His death is for everyone who believes in Him. But the success of the Good News depends on His followers who will go and preach about it to other people. That is why Jesus prays for His followers. Jesus prays that the devil will not defeat them (Matthew 6:13).

But Satan already defeated one of Jesus’ followers: Judas. Earlier that evening, Jesus told His followers that one of them chose to turn against Him (John 13:18–30). Jesus even told His followers that the Bible warned about what Judas would do (Psalm 41:9). Judas was not forced to turn against Jesus. During the Last Supper, Jesus showed Judas love and offered him friendship (John 13:26–30). “At the Last Supper, Jesus proved He was God by showing Judas that He knew what Judas was going to do before he did it. With deep love, Jesus included Judas in the work He did for His followers. But Judas closed his heart to Jesus’ love.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 720, adapted. 

Jesus knows that jealousy may separate His followers as it did in the past. So, He prays for them to be joined as one in mind and heart (John 17:11). Only God can join together His people in one mind and heart. Our being joined together in this way happens because the Father and Son are joined together as One. We must be one in heart and mind so that our work for God will be a success.

As God’s people, we also must fully accept Bible truth and become holy. Then we will be ready to work for Him. We must be changed by the truth that we teach to other people. 

`How must we live our lives to show we are “not part of the world [the people on this earth]” (John 17:14, NIrV)?`