---
title:  “‘For everyone who will believe in Me’”
date:   16/10/2018
---

Jesus finished praying for His followers. Then He prayed “ ‘for everyone who will believe in me because of their [His followers’] message’ ” (John 17:20, NIrV).

`Read in John 17:20–26 about Jesus’ biggest wish for His future believers. What was Jesus’ wish for them? Why is it so important for His prayer to come true?`

The Father and Son are in perfect agreement. Jesus prays that His future believers will be in agreement with each other the same as the Father and the Son. What does it mean that the Father and Son are in perfect agreement? They always work together in perfect agreement in everything they do (John 5:20–23). Their hearts are joined together in love for sinners. Their love for people is so deep that the Father agreed to give His Son to save us. The Son wanted to give His life too (John 3:16; John 10:15).

Jesus prays for His followers to have the same love that the Father and Son have (John 13:35). When Jesus’ followers show His love to other people, then these people will see that Jesus’ followers have a real connection with Jesus and the Father. “Christians who are joined together in heart and mind show to other people that the Good News is true.”—Andreas J. Köstenberger, John (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2004), page 498, adapted. Our agreement in heart in mind is also named unity. Our unity with each other will witness to everyone on earth that Jesus is the Savior. True unity is not something we can hide. We must show it. If people cannot see our unity, then how can they believe that the Good News about Jesus is true?

“God wants all of His people to join together as one in what they believe. Just before Jesus died on the cross, He prayed for His followers to be joined together in heart and mind, just as the Father and Son are. When the people on the earth see Jesus’ followers joined together in this way, they will believe that God sent Jesus to save them. Jesus prayed this wonderful, loving prayer for us. . . .

“We must pray for God to answer this prayer and make it come true in our own lives.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies [messages] for the Church, volume 4, page 17, adapted. 

`What can we do in our lives and in our churches to build the unity that Jesus talks about?`