---
title:  Agreement among christians
date:   17/10/2018
---

`In Mark 9:38–41 and John 10:16, Jesus tells us not to judge or shut out people who do not match our idea of who His followers should be. Why does Jesus give this warning?`

Seventh-day Adventists believe that Jesus’ prayer in John 17 is a message from Jesus for their church to have unity. As we learned yesterday, unity is agreement between church members. Unity means that church members feel, think, and believe the same way about God. As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe we must join together to do the work that God gave us: sharing the Three Angels’ Messages with everyone on earth. 

But what about our unity with other Christians? Does Jesus want us to connect with them? What does His prayer in John 17 tell us? The Bible is clear: God has loyal followers, even in Babylon. Babylon is a word picture for churches that have turned away from Bible truths (Revelation 18:4).

At the same time, we know from the book of Revelation that many people will turn away from Bible truth in the end time. Also, many false Christians will join together with the government to harm God’s loyal followers (Revelation 13:1–17). For these reasons, Adventists have always been very careful about joining together with other churches. 

So, in what ways should we connect with Christians from other churches? Here is some wise advice from Ellen G. White on the topic: “I have been shown that we must not avoid the W.C.T.U. [Women’s Christian Temperance (the choice not to drink alcohol) Union (workers’ group)] workers. We may join with them to share the message about the dangers of drinking alcohol. But our working with them does not mean we are not loyal to the Sabbath truth. When we work with the W.C.T.U. workers, we get the chance to show them that we like their message against alcohol. We also get their help in sharing that message. When they join with us, they will learn new truths that the Holy Spirit waits to bring to their hearts.”—Welfare [help given to the poor] Ministry [work done for God], page 163, adapted. 

Ellen White’s words give us some important rules we can follow. First, we can join with other Christians to help people. Second, when we work with other Christians, we must not give up the Bible truths that we believe. Third, we can use the chance to share Bible truths with them.