---
title:  'Jesus: a wonderful example of love'
date:   18/10/2018
---

`In John 17:3, Jesus says that our having everlasting life means that we know who God is. Read 1 John 2:3–6. What do these verses say that our knowing God really means? How do we show our knowledge about God in our daily lives?`

Many people today say they are good citizens. They obey the laws of their country. But often these same citizens will say that we do not need to worry about obeying God’s law anymore. But that is not what the Bible teaches. “Our knowing God does not depend first on our obeying God’s law. But our obeying God’s law shows other people that we already know God and that we love Him. So, knowledge about God is important. But knowledge does not do us any good unless we use it. Knowledge about God leads us to act on what we know about Him.”—Ekkehardt Mueller, The Letters of John (Nampa, ID: Pacific Press® Publishing Association, 2009), page 39, adapted. Jesus Himself says that our loving Him leads to obedience (John 14:15, 21). We show our love for Jesus by keeping His law (1 John 5:2, 3). 

`What new command did Jesus give His followers? Read John 13:34, 35. How does this new command connect to unity? As we learned, unity is agreement between church members. Unity also means that church members feel, think, and believe the same way about God.`

God’s command to His followers to love their neighbor was not new. God gave this command to Moses (Leviticus 19:18). What is new is Jesus’ command for His followers to love each other as He loved them. Jesus showed His followers an example of unselfish love. This love became the new way for Christians to show love.

What a wonderful example of love! Jesus’ whole life showed love in action. Jesus showed us what it means to live a life of grace. Grace is God’s forgiveness, mercy, and power over sin. When God’s grace fills our lives, we will not live to make ourselves happy. We will serve God always. We will not be selfish. We will behave the same as Jesus. He never stopped doing good for people. He gave up anything that stood in the way of helping them. The same rules that led Jesus should lead His people in their work. 

`How can we show Jesus’ unselfish love to other people?`