---
title:  Additional thought
date:   19/10/2018
---

Read Ellen G. White, “God’s Law Immutable [does not change],” pages 443–446, in The Great [worldwide] Controversy [war between Christ and Satan]. Read the articles “Denominations [different churches], Relations [connections] to Other [different churches],” pages 763, 764, and “Roman Catholic Church,” page 1110, in The Ellen G. White Encyclopedia.

“The Seventh-day Adventist Church is a worldwide church with many local churches. . . . But Adventists do not limit the idea about God’s true church to only their church. At the same time, Adventists do not say that other Christian churches make up God’s true church either. Adventists believe that God’s true church is made of all people who truly believe in Him. God knows who they are. But Adventists do say that they are God’s special end-time church. Another name for this church is God’s remnant. [A remnant is a small piece of cloth left over from a big roll of cloth. A remnant is a word picture for Seventh-day Adventists. This word picture shows us that God separated us from other people groups on this earth to be His special people at the end time. As God’s remnant church, we obey Bible truth.] Adventists believe they are God’s special remnant living in the end time that the Bible talks about in Revelation 12:17 and Revelation 12–14.”—Ekkehardt Mueller, “The Universality (having to do with every member) of the Church in the New Testament,” in Ángel Manuel Rodríguez, ed., Message, Mission [special task done for God], and Unity [agreement] of [in] the Church (Silver Spring, MD: Biblical Research Institute, General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, 2013), page 37, adapted.  

**Discussion questions**

`1.	Jesus wanted the church in New Testament times to experience unity. You will remember that unity is agreement between church members. Unity also means that church members feel, think, and believe the same way about God. What does Jesus’ desire for unity among believers in New Testament times show us about how much He wants us to experience unity in the church today?`

`2.	Has your local church worked with other Christians to solve problems in the community? If yes, was that a good experience? How can we work with other Christians and, at the same time, stay loyal to Bible truth?`