---
title:  Further Thought
date:  19/07/2019
---

Read Ellen G. White, “From the Red Sea to Sinai,” pp. 295–297, in Patriarchs and Prophets; “The Sabbath,” pp. 281–289, in The Desire of Ages; Sigve K. Tonstad, “The Social Conscience of the Seventh Day,” pp. 125–143, in The Lost Meaning of the Seventh Day.

“Jesus stated to them that the work of relieving the afflicted was in harmony with the Sabbath law. It was in harmony with the work of God’s angels, who are ever descending and ascending between heaven and earth to minister to suffering humanity. . . .

“And man also has a work to perform on this day. The necessities of life must be attended to, the sick must be cared for, the wants of the needy must be supplied. He will not be held guiltless who neglects to relieve suffering on the Sabbath. God’s holy rest day was made for man, and acts of mercy are in perfect harmony with its intent. God does not desire His creatures to suffer an hour’s pain that may be relieved upon the Sabbath or any other day.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, pp. 206, 207.

**Discussion Questions:**

`In what ways have you experienced the Sabbath as a demonstration of your trust in God? Have you had a manna-like experience in your life, where God has provided in response to your trust in Him? If so, share it with the class and tell them what you have learned.`

`As we have seen in the fourth commandment as found in Exodus 20:8–11 and Deuteronomy 5:12–15, God emphasized different aspects of Sabbath. What is the one aspect of Sabbath that you most appreciate?`

`In class or individually, brainstorm some ways you can share the blessings and benefits of the Sabbath in your community.What are some of the ways the Sabbath changes your life? Are there other parts of your life in which the patterns and principles of the Sabbath should have a greater impact?`

`What are some of the ways the Sabbath changes your life? Are there other parts of your life in which the patterns and principles of the Sabbath should have a greater impact?`

Summary: God gave the Sabbath as a way of remembering Creation and Redemption, but it also has many practical benefits. It teaches us to trust in God’s provision for us; it teaches us to practice equality; and it can become a spiritual discipline that can transform all our relationships. Jesus demonstrated His ideal for the Sabbath by healing the sick and emphasizing the Sabbath as a day to benefit those in need.