---
title:  Type and Antitype
date:  01/12/2025
---

Interpreters of the Bible cannot arbitrarily decide on what constitutes a biblical type or how that particular type is fulfilled in the New Testament and beyond. The Bible itself provides some controls and principles as to the application of biblical typology.

Similarly, the New Testament unfolds the antitypical fulfillment of a type in three distinct phases: (1) in the life of Christ (the Christological fulfillment), (2) in the experience of the church (the ecclesiological fulfillment), and (3) at the end of time (the eschatological fulfillment).

We can find these types and antitypes all through the Bible, and they are very helpful in showing readers how to understand the Bible and what truths the Word of God is teaching about Jesus, salvation, and the ultimate hope that we have.

`Look at the following Old Testament types: Israel, the Exodus, and the sanctuary. How is each fulfilled in the three antitypical phases: the Christological, the ecclesiological, and the eschatological?`

1. Israel

a. Christological phase (Matt. 2:15)

b. Ecclesiological phase (Gal. 6:16)

c. Eschatological phase (Rev. 7:4–8, 14)

2. The Exodus

a. Christological phase (Matt. 2:19–21)

b. Ecclesiological phase (2 Cor. 6:17)

c. Eschatological phase (Rev. 18:4)

3. The Sanctuary

a. Christological phase (John 1:14, John 2:21, Matt. 26:61)

b. Ecclesiological phase (1 Cor. 3:16, 17; 2 Cor. 6:16)

c. Eschatological phase (Rev. 3:12, Rev. 11:19, Rev. 21:3, Rev. 21:22)

“Since Scripture has a single divine Author, the various parts of Scripture are consistent with each other. . . . All the doctrines of the Bible will cohere with each other; interpretations of individual passages will harmonize with the totality of what Scripture teaches on a given subject.”—Raoul Dederen, ed., Handbook of Seventh-day Adventist Theology (Hagerstown, MD: Review and Herald Publishing Association, 2000), p. 65.

`What do you do when, at times, you find it hard to understand the meaning of certain passages?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

God’s people, whom He calls His peculiar treasure, were privileged with a twofold system of law; the moral and ceremonial. . . .\
From the creation the moral law was an essential part of God’s divine plan, and was as unchangeable as Himself. The ceremonial law was to answer a particular purpose in Christ’s plan for the salvation of the race. The typical system of sacrifices and offerings was established that through these services the sinner might discern the great offering, Christ. . . . The ceremonial law was glorious; it was the provision made by Jesus Christ in counsel with His Father, to aid in the salvation of the race. The whole arrangement of the typical system was founded on Christ. Adam saw Christ prefigured in the innocent beast suffering the penalty of his transgression of Jehovah’s law.\
The need for the service of sacrifices and offerings ceased when type met antitype in the death of Christ. In Him the shadow reached the substance. . . . The law of God will maintain its exalted character as long as the throne of Jehovah endures. This law is the expression of God’s character. . . . Types and shadows, offerings and sacrifices, had no virtue after Christ’s death on the cross; but God’s law was not crucified with Christ. . . . Today he [Satan] is deceiving human beings in regard to the law of God.\
The law of the ten commandments lives and will live through the eternal ages. . . .\
God did not make the infinite sacrifice of giving His only-­begotten Son to our world, to secure for man the privilege of breaking the commandments of God in this life and in the future eternal life.\
He [Jesus] gave His precious, innocent life to save guilty human beings from eternal ruin, that through faith in Him they might stand guiltless before the throne of God.—The Faith I Live By, p. 106.\
All the time of Christ’s coming there was much agitation concerning the appearance of the world’s Messiah. The Jewish nation expected that a great deliverer would come, and there were men who took advantage of this expectation, turning it to the service of themselves, that they might be thereby profited and glorified. Prophecy had foretold that these deceivers would arise. The deceivers did not come in the way in which it was prophesied that the world’s Redeemer should come; but Christ came, answering every specification. Types and symbols had represented Him, and in Him type met antitype. In the life, mission, and death of Jesus every specification was fulfilled.—Lift Him Up, p. 197.