---
title: Self-reliance?
date: 04/02/2023
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Genesis 28:10–15**

**Self-reliance?**

One night a college student was watching the starry sky while pondering about his future. He was nearing graduation, but he had not received any job offer so far. He was already engaged to a young woman, and the relationship was progressing well. But the income of his temporary job as a music teacher was too meager to provide even for himself!

Filled with fear, he turned his thoughts to her for she was also struggling to finish college. In his love for her, he was longing to have just enough for them “to lead a quiet life,” lacking nothing (1 Thess. 4:10–12).

Additionally, they agreed that after having children, she would stay at home to care for them and to teach them the ways of the Lord. This was a top priority for them, but how could they accomplish this? He was completely surrounded by darkness, inside and outside.

But in lifting his eyes to the sky, he was reminded about how God asked Abraham to trust in His promises by counting the stars! Is there still a God in heaven? he thought. Or was He the God of Abraham only? He then recalled how God had challenged Abraham’s fears: “Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your exceedingly great reward” (Gen. 15:1; or “your reward shall be very great” [ESV]).

Overwhelmed by God’s warm presence, tears also warmed his face as faith took hold of His promises. Abraham was already dead, he thought, but God’s promises are for all, as God is no respecter of anyone.

This week we will focus on Genesis 28:10–22, following Jacob, Abraham’s grandson, on his journey. What were the steps that led him not only to thrive in his business and to provide for his family, but also to move from a fraudulent character to a virtuous hero in God’s kingdom?

#### inScribe

Write out Genesis 28:10–15 from the translation of your choice. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map it.

` `