---
title: Starting Life Alone
date: 05/02/2023
---

#### inGest

It was traumatic for Jacob to start living by himself. Fleeing from Esau and carrying little more than the clothes he was wearing, Jacob left behind his father’s protection and provision (Gen. 28:10). A right motivation (to get the birthright), followed by a wrong action (cheating to get it) led him to face many terrible losses at the same time! Conscience-stricken, he felt alone, abandoned even by God, fearing to have an invalidated birthright.

By it, however, God would entitle him to become the priest of his family and ancestor of the Redeemer, in addition to abundant possessions. On his side of the deal, Jacob would need to totally devote his life to God’s service, obeying all His requirements (not to cheat, for instance…) and consulting Him for all decisions in life, including whom to marry. The prohibition of marriage with those not committed with God was a protection against apostasy either of Jacob and/or his descendants.

A pillow of stone and terrible premonitions made that night unforgettable. Life was almost unbearable under the weight of the consequences of his fault. But at that horrifying moment He who took upon Himself all of our mistakes appeared to Jacob.

“I am the Lord God of your fathers,” said that heavenly Being, standing at the top of a ladder linking heaven to earth. The symbolism was now evident: the reconnection with God was still possible through Christ! Before any initiative on Jacob’s side, the Being solemnly promised him seven things, all related to his recent losses: possessions (v. 13), posterity, growth and success, a mission (v. 14), protection, and restoration (v. 15).

As always, God took the initiative to bless and to restore. So Jacob was assured that he could still inherit God’s blessings, provided he would trust completely in the Lord. In answer to God’s promises, Jacob worshipped Him, making a vow. It was not an attempt to earn God’s favor, but a response to His initiative to bless!

Anyone starting independent adult life will profit in studying Jacob’s vow. It comprises five conditions—almost a repetition of what God had promised to him: His presence with Jacob, supernatural protection, food to eat, clothing to put on, and a peaceful journey back to his father’s house. If God would accomplish His part, said Jacob, then the Lord would become His God, that place would become God’s house (Bethel), and of all that God would give him, he would surely give a tenth to Him! (See v. 22.)

By proposing to tithe (which means to return to God part of the income or increase given by Him), Jacob ratified a practice followed by his ancestors, and revealed a decision to live by faith, trusting in God as his provider. Vowing to tithe is intrinsically related to previously accepting God as “my God,” my provider and protector, a loving being who is willing to graciously act in my behalf. Conversely, not tithing when there is an income can mean that I don’t recognize Him as my provider and protector.

**Memorize your favorite verse in Genesis 28:10–15. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`When is someone a tither: when they pay the tithe, or when they vow to tithe?`

`Is it trust in God that leads someone to tithe, or it is tithing that leads someone to trust in God? How can it work both ways?`