---
title: 'Opening Doors to the Spirit'
date: 06/02/2023
---

#### inTerpret

Is it possible to become a Christian without ever vowing anything? Is it possible to marry someone and never promise anything? Have you ever thought about why some couples keep dating but never marry? Is it possible to spend one’s whole life only “dating” Jesus, never answering His call for marriage—a decided commitment—and still inherit eternal life?

If a couple tries to enjoy the best of two worlds—of being single and of marriage, of freedom and of intimacy—they may find themselves in a dysfunctional, halfhearted, less-than-meaningful relationship. It unfits them to experience deep intimacy and love, which is possible only in a lifelong commitment provided by marriage.

Those who embrace an uncommitted attitude with Christ, refraining from advancing from the “dating” stage to the “married” one, will never enjoy the full privileges experienced by those who left all behind to “marry” the Bridegroom—for life—in a no-turning-back decision. On the other hand, those who by faith commit themselves to follow Jesus’ footsteps of self-denial and sacrifice will enter into an eternal covenant with Him. All the blessings of this and the coming world will become available to them!

Some spiritual decisions or initiatives are key if we want to grow in intimacy with Him, knowing Him better. According to the Bible, the following ones are included: to be baptized and to become a regular member in a local church; to spend regular time daily in communion with Him; to keep the Sabbath; chastity until marriage; lifelong faithfulness to one spouse; observance of God’s dietary, entertainment, and other lifestyle regulations; and regularly returning tithe and offerings.

What happens if someone never vows or purposes anything after hearing invitations from God’s Word? By not vowing, many, who waver between duty and inclination, will ultimately lean toward unfaithfulness and will leave God’s ways. But to become “doers of the word, and not hearers only” (James 1:22), we must follow the Spirit’s promptings, submitting our decisions and actions to God’s Word and denying self. Then by faith in Jesus we need to ask for a heart that is willing to obey, while implementing the radical steps that are lovingly proposed by Him—all for our good.

When it comes specifically to giving back to God in tithes and offerings, and gifts to the poor, we should never expect it to be something spontaneous. If not vowed (Gen. 28:22), or purposed in the heart, as suggested by Paul (see 2 Cor. 9:7), our giving will become inconsistent or spasmodic, guided by our selfish nature. As Jacob well understood, our giving frequency should be prompted by God’s giving, and not by our inclination, emotions, a call, a good project, or even a need.

Instead of bragging about his own strength, Jacob made his vow while deeply regretting his human frailties. By vowing while still under the strong influence of the Lord’s special presence, he avoided the traps of the selfish heart when the deep impressions of God would later vanish.

Vows are like doors that we open to the Holy Spirit, providing us with the desire and the ability to do what is right. By vowing by faith in Jesus’ power and in constant prayer, we are telling ourselves and the heavenly Beings that we want our original selfish heart to be replaced by a new one, willing to obey and act by principle according to His will. After all, “it is God who works in you both to will and to do for His good pleasure” (Phil. 2:13).

` `