---
title: 'An Exercise of Faith'
date: 08/02/2023
---

#### inVite

While still heavy laden with guilt and in a (literally) dark moment in his life, Jacob was found by the Lord, who was standing at the top of the ladder. That marvelous Being opened His mouth and promised him far more than what he could expect! By seeing the Lord’s goodness, forbearance, and long-suffering, Jacob suddenly understood what grace and forgiveness meant, and was led to repentance (see Rom. 2:4).

It was only after meeting with the Lord and trusting in Him that Jacob made a vow. Only then could he leave all fears behind and trust that “if God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how shall He not with Him also freely give us all things?” (Rom. 8:31, 32). As the saying goes: “If your fears are big, then your god is small; if your God is big, then your fears are small.” He who created the worlds can accomplish whatever He promises! Therefore, vows should be seen as evidence of trust.

When he met the Lord, Jacob’s anchor moved from the material to the spiritual, changing his whole perspective on life! Therefore, Jacob’s mouth burst in expressions of allegiance, finalizing his vow with a promise of giving the tithe “of all that You give me” (Gen. 28:22), evidencing that he already knew about that practice from his ancestors (Gen. 14:20). Note how inclusive is that vow. No one will vow about tithing unless that person meets Jesus and by faith rests in full assurance that God would provide for their needs! Tithing is evidence of trust and a patent sign of voluntary, positive allegiance to Jesus.

It was at that moment that Jacob became a tither, even while not yet owning anything. We don’t need to own anything to become tithers. A vow to tithe points to the future, to expected or unexpected blessings that have not yet been received. For Jacob, tithing would be an exercise of faith in the God that holds the future in His hands. As it should also happen with us, the act of tithing became a witness to himself and to the spiritual realms (both sides) about which side of the spiritual war he belonged to, and in whom he was trusting to thrive in life!

After spending twenty years far from his father’s house (fourteen of them working just to pay the dowry for Rachel and Leah), Jacob returned to his homeland “exceedingly prosperous” (Gen. 30:43). Now with a changed heart, he generously shared part of the goods with Esau, his brother.

But from where did Jacob’s inheritance come from—all this wealth in just six years? Because of the distance from his father’s house, Jacob was unable to take any advantage of his estate. Laban, who was supposed to help his son-in-law, tried to deceive and harm him many times! No, his inheritance didn’t come from any other human being, but from Him who, from the top of the ladder, promised: “I will not leave you until I have done what I have spoken to you” (Gen. 28:15). This inheritance, which doesn’t require any other human assistance, is resistant to injustices and plots from the wicked.

The same will happen to all those who cling to the Lord and turn their foot from breaking the Sabbath: “I will cause you to ride on the high hills of the earth, and feed you with the [inheritance] of Jacob your father. The mouth of the Lord has spoken” (Isa. 58:13, 14).

` `