---
title: inQuire
date: 10/02/2023
---

#### inQuire

`Why was Jacob’s vow not a way to earn merit, or a “salvation by works” initiative?`

`Do you believe that God’s covenantal requirements as presented to the patriarchs were relaxed for those living in the time of the end? Why?`

`Is the mandate to date or marry only a God-fearing person who keeps His commandments still applicable to those entering into a covenant with God in the New Testament era? Explain.`

`How do wedding vows, made before any physical intimacy, in the presence of God, the church, and family members, contribute to the marriage’s health? Or don’t they?`

`What would have happened if Daniel had not spoken to the chief of the eunuchs about the purpose of his heart as it related to diet?`

`Is it true that when it comes to a man/woman relationship of love, an increase in intimacy will always correspond to a decrease in freedom? Would that decrease in freedom be something necessarily negative, to be avoided? Explain.`

`If Jacob’s vow would not help him to earn merit, or even produce a change of heart, why did he make it?`

`Was Jesus requesting Zacchaeus to vow something when He met him (Luke 19:1-9)? So why did he voluntarily express his vow?`

`In what ways may someone become selfish while giving? In which ways will an increased frequency of giving following God’s giving help the worshipper avoid the trap of “self-centered giving”?`

`What will likely be the giving patterns of those who do not vow about giving back to God in tithes, offerings, and gifts to the poor? Why is it useful to propose a percentage from the income to be given as regular offering?`

`In what ways are Sabbath keeping and returning of tithe evidences that we trust God? At the same time, how do they work to strengthen our trust in Him?`