---
title:  Life, Death, and Restoration
date:  24/12/2022
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Genesis 3:22–24**

**Life, Death, and Restoration**

God placed two special trees in the Garden of Eden. Eating from one would cause death, and partaking from the other would perpetuate life (Gen. 2:9). When Adam and Eve ate from the forbidden tree, God pronounced the death sentence: “In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken; for dust you are, and to dust you shall return” (Gen. 3:19). Return to dust—what a fearful and depressing thought!

In order to assure that there would not be an immortal sinner, God cast Adam and Eve out and placed cherubim and a flaming sword at the east of the Garden to guard the way to the life-perpetuating tree (Gen. 3:22–24). Clearly, Adam and Eve were not inherently immortal. What good would it do for God to bar humanity from the tree of life if they already had an immortal soul? Immortality after sin would have to be sought (Rom. 2:7).

When all appeared lost, God gave Adam and Eve a glorious promise of restoration. The Seed of the woman, Christ (Gen. 3:15; Gal. 3:16), would crush the serpent’s head, and humanity would be restored to the tree of life (Rev. 2:7). God had warned that the very day they ate from the forbidden tree they would receive their sentence to death (Gen. 2:17). Why did they not immediately die? Their death sentence was commuted because Christ offered to die in their place: “The instant Adam yielded to Satan's temptation, and did the very thing which God had said he should not do, Christ, the Son of God, stood between the living and the dead, saying, ‘Let the punishment fall on Me. I will stand in man’s place.’ ” (Ellen G. White, _Bible Echo_, May 21, 1900.)

#### inScribe

Review Genesis 3. But now write out Genesis 3:22–24 from the translation of your choice. You may also re-write the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `