---
title:  The Battery Charger
date:  25/12/2022
---

#### inGest

God created perfect bodies, placed them in a perfect environment, with perfect laws of health, with a fully-charged “battery” (vital force) and a life-perpetuating tree (Gen. 2:9). Life was contingent on continuing to eat the fruit of the tree, however. Man was not immortal by nature. The tree worked like a battery charger: “The fruit of the tree of life in the Garden of Eden possessed supernatural virtue. To eat of it was to live forever. Its fruit was the antidote of death.” (Ellen G. White, _Testimonies for the Church_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1904), 8:288.) Eating of the fruit only once was not sufficient. “In order to possess an endless existence, man must continue to partake of the tree of life. Deprived of this, his vitality would gradually diminish until life should become extinct.” (Ellen G. White, _Patriarchs and Prophets_ (Battle Creek, MI: Review and Herald, 1890), 60, emphasis supplied.)

When Adam and Eve ate from the forbidden tree, God pronounced the death sentence upon them (Gen. 3:19), and they could no longer eat from the tree of life (Gen. 3:22–24). So to speak, they no longer had access to the “battery charger.” Furthermore, a deteriorating environment and intemperate personal health habits wore down the battery even faster.

At the beginning, God gave humanity a fully charged “battery.” During the first 1,600 years of human history, men lived between 777 and 969 years (Gen. 5). “The lives of the antediluvians were protracted because of the life-giving power of this tree, which was transmitted to them from Adam and Eve.” (Seventh-day Adventist Bible Commentary, _Ellen G. White Comments_, 7:988.) Eventually, the “battery” wore down, and because there was no access to the “battery charger,” humanity ceased to function. According to Genesis 5, everyone from Adam to Noah died (except Enoch), as we can see in the repeated formula in Genesis 5, “and he died.” God was right when He said, You will surely die (Rom. 6:23: 5:12). Humanity was indeed mortal, and Satan was proved a liar.

According to Genesis 11 the life span of those who lived between the flood and Abraham was significantly reduced to between 148 and 600. The factors in the reduction of life spans included a deteriorating body, a degenerating environment, a violation of the laws of health, and above all, no access to the “battery charger.” Moses lived to be 120 (Deut. 34:7), and his brother Aaron died at 123 (Num. 33:39). In the days of David and today, the average life span is seventy or eighty (Ps. 90:10), and if it were not for modern therapeutics and hygiene it would be less. We are told that “if Adam, at his creation, had not been endowed with twenty times as much vital force as men now have, the race, with their present habits of living in violation of natural law, would have become extinct.” (Ellen G. White, _Fundamentals of Christian Education_ (Nashville: Southern Publishing, 1923), 23.)

**Memorize your favorite verse in Genesis 3. Write it out multiple times to help with memorization.**

` `

`What is the relationship between spirituality and physical health?`

`How does the recent increase in human lifespan play a part in the argument of this section?`