---
title:  Eternal Contingency
date:  26/12/2022
---

#### inTerpret

What does the future hold for those who trust in Christ and abide in Him? When Jesus comes, the dead in Christ will rise, and they, with the living saints, will put on immortality (1 Cor. 15:52, 53). If they have to put it on, they must not have had it before! The redeemed will then receive a fully charged battery, with full access to the “battery charger.” “The mortal, corruptible form, devoid of comeliness, once polluted with sin, becomes perfect, beautiful, and immortal. All blemishes and deformities are left in the grave. Restored to the tree of life in the long-lost Eden, the redeemed will ‘grow up’ (Malachi 4:2) to the full stature of the race in its primeval glory.” (Ellen G. White, _The Great Controversy_ (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1911), 645.)

Even in eternity, the redeemed must still eat from the tree of life to continue living. Their immortality will be contingent, not inherent. How frequently will the redeemed eat from the tree? Rev. 22:1, 2 gives us a hint: “And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb. In the middle of its street, and on either side of the river, was the tree of life, which bore twelve fruits, each tree yielding its fruit _every month_. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations” (emphasis supplied). Isaiah 66:23 adds that the redeemed will go to worship the Lord from one New Moon to another, and the New Moon marks the beginning of the month. Jesus promised that the overcomers will indeed _eat_ from “the tree of life, which is in the midst of the Paradise of God” (Rev. 2:7). All the citizens of the city will be commandment keepers and have a right to partake of the tree of life (Rev. 22:14).

The last enemy—death—will then be destroyed: “He will swallow up death forever, and the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces; the rebuke of His people, He will take away from all the earth; for the Lord has spoken” (Isa. 25:8, cf. Rev. 21:4; 1 Cor. 15:26).

“Here we saw the tree of life and the throne of God. Out of the throne came a pure river of water, and on either side of the river was the tree of life. On one side of the river was a trunk of a tree, and a trunk on the other side of the river, both of pure, transparent gold. At first I thought I saw two trees. I looked again, and saw that they were united at the top in one tree.” (Ellen G. White, _Early Writings_ (Battle Creek, MI: Review and Herald, 1882), 17.)

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why will human immortality continue to be contingent rather than inherent?`