---
title:  The True Tree of Life
date:  28/12/2022
---

#### inVite

People spend large sums of money to delay their inevitable death. They buy skin creams, get facelifts, exercise, use dietary supplements and multi-vitamins, and follow proper health principles, all in the hopes of cheating death for a while longer. Sooner or later, however, everyone must face the reality of their mortality. Dust we are, and to dust we shall return!

Many cultures have traditions about life-giving trees and fountains of eternal youth, yet no one has been able to find them because they are looking in the wrong places. Only the Bible tells us where we can find them. Jesus is the fountain of eternal youth, for He beckons with these words: “ ‘If anyone thirsts let him come to Me and drink’ ” (John 7:37). Jesus promised, “Whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life” (John 4:14).

The tree of life is a symbol of Christ, and even now we can partake of His life-giving fruit. When Adam and Eve sinned, God barred them and their descendants from partaking of the tree of life, but even now believers in Him can partake of His life-giving fruit: “After the entrance of sin the heavenly Husbandman transplanted the tree of life to the Paradise above; but its branches hang over the wall to the lower world. Through the redemption purchased by the blood of Christ, we may still eat of its life-giving fruit.” (Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church (Mountain View, CA: Pacific Press, 1904), 8:288.)

The book of Proverbs personifies Wisdom as a life-giving tree: “She is a tree of life to those who take hold of her, and happy are all who retain her” (Prov. 3:18). Proverbs 8 describes Jesus as the personification of Wisdom (Prov. 8:22–31), and Paul affirms that Jesus is made unto us the Wisdom of God (1 Cor. 1:30).

How can we drink from the fountain of eternal youth and eat the life-giving fruit if the fountain and the tree are in the New Jerusalem? The answer is simple. We first eat and drink spiritually on earth and then literally in heaven. If we have embraced Jesus and abide in Him, we are spiritually seated with Him in heaven (Eph. 2:6). We have come to the heavenly Jerusalem because our citizenship is there (Phil. 3:20, 21). We can enjoy the blessings of heaven even now, while we live on earth. In the future, however, we will be seated with Christ literally, in the literal New Jerusalem, and shall eat from the literal tree of life and drink the literal water that flows from the throne of God (Rev. 22:17). We can even now have the assurance of eternal life! “He who has the Son has life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have life” (1 John 5:12).

` `