---
title:  Further Thought
date:  05/02/2021
---

“Is it by conditions that we receive salvation?—Never by conditions that we come to Christ. And if we come to Christ, then what is the condition? The condition is that by living faith we lay hold wholly and entirely upon the merits of the blood of a crucified and risen Saviour. When we do that, then we work the works of righteousness. But when God is calling the sinner in our world, and inviting him, there is no condition there; he draws by the invitation of Christ, and it is not, Now you have got to respond in order to come to God. The sinner comes, and as he comes and views Christ elevated upon that cross of Calvary, which God impresses upon his mind, there is a love beyond anything that is imagined that he has taken hold of.”—Ellen G. White, Manuscript Releases, vol. 6, p. 32.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Look at the above quote from Ellen G. White; read it in the context of Wednesday’s study. What is she telling us there? Notice in her statement both elements of the Christian walk: faith and then works. How does she differentiate between them?`

`Why are pride and arrogance such dangerous sins? Why are they so hard to put away? Can it be because by their very nature they blind people to their need to put them away? After all, if you are proud, you think you are OK, and if you think you are OK, why bother changing? How can dwelling on the Cross and what it represents (the only means of saving any person) be a powerful cure for pride and arrogance in anyone?`

`Does Isaiah see hope for people of other nations? See, for example, Isa. 25:3, 6; Isa. 26:9 (compare Rev. 19:9).`

**Summary**

Isaiah saw that following Assyria, Babylon would conquer Judah. But he also saw that in spite of superhuman rulers of the darkness of this world (Eph. 6:12) working through God’s human enemies and presuming to play God, the Lord would decisively prevail and bring eternal peace to our troubled planet.

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_Reflecting Christ_, “Revealing the Triumphs of Grace,” p. 347;

Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, “Battling With Unseen Powers,” vol. 6, pp. 1118, 1119.