---
title:  End-Time Tricks And Lies
date:  03/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

### Read for This Week’s Study
Matthew 7:21–27; 1 Kings 17:22–24; Hebrews 9:25–28; 1 Samuel 28:3–25.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “That comes as no surprise. Even Satan himself pretends to be an angel of light. So it doesn’t surprise us that Satan’s servants also pretend to be serving God. They will finally get exactly what they deserve [punishment]” (2 Corinthians 11:14, 15, NIrV).

MODERN LIFE is filled with books, entertainment, movies, and news stories about strange and surprising happenings. These “miracles” include secret knowledge about ghosts, visitors from outer space, and messages from dead people. Hollywood makes many movies about religion and miracles. But most of these movies are filled with lies and false teachings that don’t match Bible truth. These movies tell us the same lie that the snake told Eve: “ ‘You will not die’ ” (Genesis 3:4, ERV). This lie also is in some of the most-read books and popular computer games. For sure, Satan wants to turn our attention away from God. Satan uses many tricks and lies to do that. Sometimes Satan even “hides” his lies with science.

One of Satan’s biggest tricks is “near-death experiences” (NDEs). An NDE is an experience that someone had after he or she “died.” Then this person comes back to life with stories about heaven. Many people say that NDEs are proof that the spirit never dies and lives forever!

This week, we’ll look at some of Satan’s end-time tricks and lies. We should know about these dangers.