---
title:  Building On The Rock 
date:  04/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

One of Satan’s end-time lies is mysticism. Mysticism is a religious experience that includes many different teachings. The basic belief is that a person’s spirit joins with a Higher Power. Sometimes the person who has this experience looks as if he or she is asleep. But he or she can move, talk, answer questions, and follow commands the same as a person who is awake. Sad to say, this worship experience is part of some Christian churches today. The Christians in these churches always replace Bible truth with their own feelings and experience. So, this religious experience really tries to make a person “God.” This religious experience puts Christians in danger. Mysticism doesn’t keep a person safe from Satan’s lie.

`In Matthew 7:21–27, Jesus talks about building our houses “on rock” or “on sand.” What does Jesus mean?`

Today, many Christian churches say that Bible teachings are not important. They say that the most important thing is not **what** you know but **who** you know. So, they replace Jesus’ teachings with Jesus Himself. These Christians feel that Bible truth is old-fashioned and not very popular. They say that some Bible stories or teachings can’t really be true. Why? Because they believe Jesus would never let things happen the way the Bible says. So, these Christians don’t pay attention to some Bible stories or teachings. One of these teachings is obedience to God. We can’t have strong faith when we remove some of God’s laws. We must “build” our faith the same as a house on a strong rock.

So, people are in danger who think they only need to believe in Jesus. Remember, Roman Catholics who killed Protestants during the Dark Ages also believed in Jesus. The people who cast out demons in Jesus’ name believed in Jesus, too (Matthew 7:22). “One of Satan’s biggest lies is the idea that our beliefs are not important. Satan knows that when we accept Bible truth, the truth will make us holy. So, Satan always tries to substitute false ideas, false stories, and false Good News for Bible truth.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 520, adapted.

`How can we fight against the feeling or wish to do things that God’s Word warns us not to do?`