---
title:  Near-Death Experiences 
date:  05/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

In modern times, people say that “near-death experiences,” or NDEs, are proof that the spirit never dies. That is what Raymond A. Moody, Junior talks about in his book. Moody’s book is named Life After Life: The Investigation of a Phenomenon: Survival of Bodily Death (Atlanta, GA: Mockingbird, 1975). In his book, Moody talks about his five-year study of more than 100 people who “died” and then came back to life. These people said they met a loving person covered with light. Some scientists say that these stories are “exciting proof that the human spirit continues to live after the body dies” (back cover).

Read these Bible stories about people who wake up from the dead: 1 Kings 17:22–24; 2 Kings 4:34–37; Mark 5:41–43; Luke 7:14–17; and John 11:40–44. How many of these stories talk about a person’s spirit staying alive during the time that the person was dead? Why is this answer important?

All near-death experiences, or NDEs, happen to people whose doctors say they are dead. But the people are not really dead. That’s different from the story about Lazarus (John 11). Lazarus really died. He was dead for four days. His body started to rot (John 11:39). But Lazarus never talks about any experience he had while he was dead. The other Bible stories show the same thing. None of the people who died talk about any experience they had in heaven or in hell. If Bible writers had NDEs, they would talk about it. But they don’t write about NDEs in the Bible. So, we must pay attention to the Bible truth about what happens when we die (read Job 3:11–13; Psalm 115:17; Psalm 146:4; Ecclesiastes 9:10)!

But what about NDEs that happen today? If we accept the Bible teaching that the dead sleep, then there only can be two explanations for these reports. (1) The NDEs today must be caused by natural chemical experiences in the brain that come from stress. These chemical changes make a person think the NDE is real when it isn’t. Or (2), the NDE is a lying trick from Satan (2 Corinthians 11:14). No doubt Satan causes many of these NDEs because some of the people who “died” say they talked to their dead family members! We must reject any experience that goes against Bible truth.

Many NDEs are accepted by scientists as “proof” that the spirit doesn’t die. Why must we be careful to trust science only when it agrees with the Bible?