---
title:  Born Again With A Different Body
date:  06/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

During Bible times, pagans believed that a person’s spirit continued living after his or her body died. Pagans worship nature, planets, or many false gods. Sad to say, many Christians today believe in pagan ideas. These Christians believe that when a person dies, he lives in heaven or in hell. This idea came from pagan teachings. Pagan religions also teach reincarnation. Reincarnation is the false idea that a person’s spirit is born many times on this earth.

Some people believe that reincarnation is the same as spiritual evolution. Evolution is the teaching that all life came from slow changes that happened over a very long time. So, reincarnation is a way for a person’s spirit to become wiser and better each time it is born. People who believe in the Hindu religion teach that there are six groups of life on this earth. The lowest group is (1) life from the sea. The group above that is (2) plants; (3) then animals with cold blood and insects; (4) birds; (5) animals; and, finally, (6) the highest group is humans.

`Read Hebrews 9:25–28 and 1 Peter 3:18. Jesus needed to die only “one time” (Hebrews 9:28, ERV). All humans die only “once [one time]” (Hebrews 9:27, ERV). So, why do some Christians believe in reincarnation? As we already learned, reincarnation is the false idea that a person’s spirit never dies but comes back many times again on this earth.`

If we accept the Bible, there’s no way we can believe in reincarnation. Here are five reasons why: (1) Reincarnation goes against the Bible teaching that the spirit dies and that God will wake up the body from the dead at the Second Coming (1 Thessalonians 4:13–18). (2) Reincarnation teaches that we are saved by our good behavior and that we don’t need Jesus to save us (Ephesians 2:8–10). (3) Reincarnation goes against the Bible teaching that we choose to accept or reject the gift of everlasting life by the decisions we make in this life (Matthew 22:1–14; Matthew 25:31–46). (4) Reincarnation makes people feel that Jesus’ Second Coming is not important (John 14:1–3). (5) Reincarnation says that you get more chances after you die to correct your mistakes in another life (Hebrews 9:27). These are four reasons why Christians can’t accept reincarnation.