---
title:  Communicating With Dead Loved Ones
date:  07/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

(1 Samuel 28:3–25)

Necromancy is one of Satan’s tricks from Old Testament times. Necromancy is communication with dead people. The word “necromancy” comes from two Greek words: “nekros” (dead) and “manteia” (fortunetelling). Often people practice necromancy to get from the spirits special knowledge about the future. Satan also invented the belief that we should pray for dead family members and worship them. People believe the spirits of their dead loved ones can change their lives. Many people today accept these lies because they miss their dead loved ones.

`Read about Saul’s experience with the witch of Endor in 1 Samuel 28:3–25. What does this story teach us about why we shouldn’t try to communicate with “dead” spirits?`

God forbids His people to talk with witches, wizards, magicians, fortunetellers, or evil spirits. God commanded His people to kill these people with stones (Leviticus 19:31; Leviticus 20:6, 27; Deuteronomy 18:9–14). So, King Saul killed all these evil people (1 Samuel 28:3, 9).

Later, Saul went to the witch at Endor after God rejected him (1 Samuel 28:6, 7, 15; compare with Joshua 17:11; Psalm 83:10). Endor was a city in the land of Canaan. Saul asked the witch to wake up the prophet Samuel from the dead. A prophet is a special messenger from God. The witch “woke up” an evil spirit who pretended to be Samuel. The evil spirit talked with Saul (1 Samuel 28:13–19). The spirit told Saul, “ ‘Tomorrow, you and your sons will be here with me’ ” (1 Samuel 28:19, ERV). The evil spirit told a powerful lie. He made Saul think that a person’s spirit stays alive after his body dies.

More than 200 years later, Isaiah wrote about people who communicate with the dead in secret and ask them for advice. Isaiah says, “Why don’t we ask God first?” Why should people ask the dead for advice? Then Isaiah tells the people to put their faith in the teaching and the Law. “If they [people] do not speak what this word says, it is because they have no light [Bible truth] in them” (Isaiah 8:19, 20, NLV; also read Isaiah 19:3).

How often do we do bad things, as King Saul did, when we feel stressed? Why are faith, prayer, and obedience to Bible truth the only things that will keep us safe?