---
title:  Can The Dead Come Back To Us?
date:  08/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Sometimes demons pretend to be our dead loved ones, friends, or family members. The demons appear to people who knew the dead loved ones when they were alive. The evil spirits make themselves look and talk the same way the dead person did. All these lies are Satan’s tricks. Satan uses these tricks to fool people who don’t know Bible truth. Ellen G. White warns, “In the end times, lying spirits will pretend to be Jesus’ followers who woke up from the dead. These spirits will reject Bible truth and teach lies. Satan Himself will pretend to be Jesus.”—The Great Controversy, page 624, adapted.

`Read 2 Corinthians 11:14, 15 and Ephesians 6:10–18. What do these verses tell us we should do to protect ourselves from Satan’s tricks and his lying demons?`

Paul warns us that “our fight is not with people. It [our fight] is against the leaders and the powers and the spirits of darkness [evil] in this world [earth]. It [our fight] is against the demon world [group] that works in the heavens” (Ephesians 6:12, NLV). We can be protected from these lying demons only when we put on the whole battle suit that God gives us (Ephesians 6:13–18).

These lying demons can try to scare us. But they can’t trick or fool the people who are protected by God and who know and trust Bible truth. As Seventh-day Adventists, we believe the Bible truth that the spirit doesn’t live forever. We know that the Bible teaches that the dead can’t communicate with us or appear to us. So, we must reject any evil spirit who pretends to be a dead loved one. The dead loved one may look very real. He or she may act and talk the same way our loved one did. But we must always stand firm on the teaching that the dead are asleep in the grave.

Let’s say that you lost a loved one. Then this loved one appears to you. He tells you how much he loves you and misses you. He says things that only your dead loved one knew. Then he says that he is now in heaven. Can you see how much danger a person will be in when this happens if he or she doesn’t know Bible truth? He or she could believe the lie. Worse, he or she may want to believe it.

`What does it mean to put on God’s battle suit? How do we do this day by day in every part of our lives?`

We can be protected from these lying demons only when we put on the whole battle suit that God gives us.