---
title:  Further Thought
date:  09/12/2022
---

**This is Easy Reading Edition of the Sabbath School. For the regular Adult version with Teacher comments and EGW notes please open the top lesson on the main screen**

Read Ellen G. White, “Dealing With False Science, Cults, Isms, and Secret Societies,” pages 602–609, in Evangelism; and “Spiritism,” pages 86–93, in Confrontation.

There is a business that is inventing a way for people to communicate with the dead. The website for the business says that when humans die, they go to another place forever. But their spirits continue to live. The spirits have the same personality they had when they had a body. Many other things about the spirits are the same, too. So, they can communicate with their loved ones.

The business’s invention will allow communication between the living and the dead in three ways. First, the business’s invention will allow the dead and the living to communicate with each other by texts. They can have conversations with each other about any topic they want. Second, the invention will allow the living to talk with their dead loved ones who are living in another part of forever. Third, the business says it will allow the living to hear and see their dead loved ones, too.

This invention is scary. What’s worse is that the buiness tries to show that the dead loved ones are really who they say they are. The business says, “A sad parent may ask his or her dead son or daughter the following question: ‘Did you have a dog named Snoopy when you were a child? Did we give you a pocketknife for your tenth birthday?’ ” This warning from Ellen G. White helps us understand the terrible danger from the business’s invention: “Spirits who pretend to be friends and loved ones sometimes appear to the people who knew the dead family members or friends when they were alive. The spirits talk about the same things the dead people talked about when they were alive. The spirits also do the same things the dead people did when they were alive.”—Patriarchs and Prophets, page 684, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`Many Christians accept popular beliefs because they learn about them from TV. What Bible rules should help us to know what to accept and what to reject from TV and the news? (Read Psalm 101:1–8; Proverbs 4:23; and Philippians 4:8.)`

`How can we help people to stay safe from Satan’s end-time tricks and lies? At the same time, what must we do to keep ourselves safe from these tricks and lies while we help other people?`