---
title:  The Centrality of God’s Word
date:  01/03/2020
---

`Read Daniel 9:1, 2. Daniel says that he “understood by books” the prophecy he is studying so carefully. What book or books of the Bible does he mean?`

As we look into this prayer, it becomes clear that it arises from an in-depth study of God’s previous revelation to Moses and the prophets. Having learned from Jeremiah’s scroll that his period of captivity will last seventy years (see Jer. 25:11, 12; Jer. 29:10), Daniel understands the importance of the historical moment in which he is living.

Let us bear in mind that Daniel offers this prayer in 539 B.C., the year that the Persian Empire replaces Babylon. So almost seventy years have elapsed since Nebuchadnezzar has conquered Jerusalem and destroyed the temple. Therefore, according to the prophecy of Jeremiah, God’s people will soon return to their homeland. Trusting the Word of God, Daniel knows that something momentous is about to happen to his people and that, just as God promises in His Word, the exile in Babylon shall soon end and the Jews will return to their home.

From his study of the Scriptures available to him, Daniel also realizes how serious the sins of his people are. Because they have broken the covenant, they have severed their relationship with God; the inevitable consequence is, therefore, the exile (Lev. 26:14-45). Thus, it is the study of God’s revelation that provides Daniel with an understanding of the times and that gives him a sense of urgency to plead with God on behalf of the people.

As we approach the last days of earth’s history, we need more than ever to study and live according to God’s Word. Only Scripture can provide us with an authoritative explanation of the world we live in. After all, Scripture tells the story of the great controversy between good and evil, and thus reveals that human history will close with the obliteration of evil and the establishment of God’s eternal kingdom. The more we study the Scriptures, the better we can understand the contemporary situation of the world and our place in it, as well as our reasons for hope amid a world that offers none.

`How does the Bible help us understand to some degree a world that, in and of itself, can so easily seem to make no sense at all?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

A copy of the letters sent by Jeremiah to the Hebrew captives in Babylon, and of the letters sent by the false prophets to these captives and to the authorities of Jerusalem, together with a story of the controversy between the true and the false, is found in the twenty-seventh to the twenty-ninth chapters of Jeremiah.

It was immediately after this interchange of letters between Jeremiah and the elders of the Israelites in captivity, that the prophet was instructed to write in a book all that had been revealed to him regarding the restoration of Israel. This is recorded in the thirtieth and the thirty-first chapters of Jeremiah.

These, with the prophecies of the twenty-fifth chapter, are the letters and the records that Daniel the prophet, during “the first year of the reign of Darius the Mede,” prayerfully studied, three-score years and more after they were written.—Ellen G. White Comments, in _The SDA Bible Commentary_, vol. 4, pp. 1157, 1158.

Let the Word be your guide, your rule of conduct. It will teach you refined manners, godly conduct, and unerring judgment. Study the Word. When you are in perplexity, search the Word for instruction that is suited to your case. Seek the Lord for guidance. Never entertain that which the Lord forbids in His Word, and that which His Word requires, ever seek to do. “Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me” ( John 5:39)… .

There is no action of our lives in which God is not concerned, no interest which is not precious in His sight. “Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world,” He declares (Matthew 28:20). God is the shield and buckler of His people. He spreads His hands above His trusting children, and no one can wound a child of His without smiting the hand of God.—_The Upward Look_, p. 87.

The precious faith inspired of God imparts strength and nobility of character. As His goodness, His mercy, and His love are dwelt upon, clearer and still clearer will be the perception of truth; higher, holier the desire for purity of heart and clearness of thought. The soul dwelling in the atmosphere of holy thought is transformed by [communion] with God through the study of His Word. Truth is so large, so far reaching, so deep, so broad, that self is lost sight of. The heart is softened and subdued into humility, kindness, and love.

The natural powers are enlarged because of holy obedience. From the study of the words of life, students may come forth with minds expanded, elevated, ennobled… . Being pure-minded, they will become strong-minded. Every intellectual faculty will be quickened. They may so educate and discipline themselves that all within the sphere of their influence may see what man can be, and what he can do, when connected with the God of wisdom and power.—_My Life Today_, p. 262.