---
title:  The Violation of Dinah
date:  31/05/2022
---

Now that Jacob has reconciled with his brother, he wants to settle in the land of Canaan in peace. The word shalem, “safely” (Gen. 33:18, NKJV), from the word shalom, “peace,” for the first time characterizes his journey.

After having purchased a piece of land from the inhabitants (Gen. 33:19), he erects an altar there, showing his faith and his realization of how dependent upon the Lord he really is. For every one of the sacrifices offered, there was an act of worship.

Yet, for the first time in his life, Jacob-Israel is exposed to the troubles of settling in the land. Like Isaac at Gerar with Abimelech (Gen. 26:1–33), Jacob tries to find accommodation with the Canaanites.

`Read Genesis 34. What happened to upset his plans for a peaceful existence?`

The story of this sordid incident highlights the ambiguity of the characters and of their actions. The sensual Shechem, who violates Dinah, also is characterized as sincere and loving Dinah, and he wants to try to make amends. He is even willing to undergo the covenant rite of circumcision.

Meanwhile, Simeon and Levi, who present themselves as the defenders of God and His commandments, and who resist intermarriage with the Canaanites (Lev. 19:29), resort to lies and deception (Gen. 34:13) and are ready to kill and plunder (Gen. 34:25–27). Their actions were not only reprehensible (why not punish the one man who had done it?) but also had the potential to cause many more problems.

As for Jacob, he only is concerned with peace. When the rape of his daughter is reported to him, he does not say anything (Gen. 34:5). However, after he hears about what his sons have done, he openly chides them because of what could follow: “ ‘You have troubled me by making me obnoxious among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites; and since I am few in number, they will gather themselves together against me and kill me. I shall be destroyed, my household and I’ ” (Gen. 34:30, NKJV).

`Again and again we see deceit and deception, as well as acts of kindness and grace, in these accounts. What does this tell us about human nature?`---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

The tarry of Jacob and his sons at Shechem ended in violence and bloodshed. The one daughter of the household had been brought to shame and sorrow, two brothers were involved in the guilt of murder, a whole city had been given to ruin and slaughter, in retaliation for the lawless deed of one rash youth. . . .<br/>
The treacherous cruelty of Simeon and Levi was not unprovoked; yet in their course toward the Shechemites they committed a grievous sin. They had carefully concealed from Jacob their intentions, and the tidings of their revenge filled him with horror. Heartsick at the deceit and violence of his sons, he only said, “Ye have troubled me to make me to stink among the inhabitants of the land: . . . and I being few in number, they shall gather themselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed, I and my house.” But the grief and abhorrence with which he regarded their bloody deed is shown by the words in which, nearly fifty years later, he referred to it, as he lay upon his deathbed in Egypt: “Simeon and Levi are brethren; instruments of cruelty are in their habitations. . . . Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel.” Genesis 49:5-7.—Patriarchs and Prophets, pp. 204, 205.

Human nature is ever struggling for expression, ready for contest; but he who learns of Christ is emptied of self, of pride, of love of supremacy, and there is silence in the soul. Self is yielded to the disposal of the Holy Spirit. Then we are not anxious to have the highest place. We have no ambition to crowd and elbow ourselves into notice; but we feel that our highest place is at the feet of our Saviour. We look to Jesus, waiting for His hand to lead, listening for His voice to guide. . . .<br/>
When we receive Christ as an abiding guest in the soul, the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, will keep our hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. The Saviour’s life on earth, though lived in the midst of conflict, was a life of peace. While angry enemies were constantly pursuing Him, He said, “He that sent Me is with Me: the Father hath not left Me alone; for I do always those things that please Him.” John 8:29. No storm of human or satanic wrath could disturb the calm of that perfect communion with God.—Thoughts From the Mount of Blessing, pp. 15, 16.

The Son of God was appointed to come to this earth to take humanity and by His own example to be a great educating power among men. His experience in man’s behalf was to enable men to resist Satan’s power. . . . The sons of men had had a practical knowledge of evil; Christ came to the world to show them that He had planted for them the tree of life, the leaves of which are for the healing of the nations.—Counsels to Parents, Teachers, and Students, pp. 33, 34.