---
title:  A Deeper Look into Chapter 6
date:  03/02/2020
---

#### inTerpret

Parallels between Daniel 3, Daniel 6, and the mark of the beast

`They involve persecution for obeying God’s law (Dan. 3:6; 6:5; Rev. 12:17).`

`They involve false worship (Dan. 3:5; 6:6–9; Rev. 13:15).`

`They involve the death decree for failure to comply (Dan. 3:6; 6:7; Rev. 13:15).`

`They involve the saving of the righteous by the intervention of God (Dan. 3:25–28; 6:19–23; Rev. 19:11).`

The story of Daniel in the lions’ den has the same theme as Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the fiery furnace. These two chapters parallel the end-time issue of worshiping the beast in the book of Revelation.

Am I saved by my devotions?

The Bible is clear that we are saved by grace through faith in Jesus Christ alone. Becoming a Christian is one thing; growing in Christ, which requires maintaining our connection to Him, is another. As Jesus said, it is a vine-to-branches relationship. Devotions maintain our connection to God as our source of strength. Accepting Jesus as our personal Savior makes us alive in Christ. Our devotional life keeps us alive in Christ by connecting us to the source of strength.

What if I miss devotions?

Like with any habit, it may be challenging at first to establish the new habit of daily devotions. But if you miss, don’t give up! The Bible says that a righteous person keeps on getting back up (Prov. 24:16). Ask the Lord to give you strength. He will help you, for He desires nothing more than to spend time with you daily!

``