---
title:  Giving a Defense
date:   28/12/2025
---

**Read This Lesson’s Passage:** 1 Kings 10:1–13

### inTro

**Giving a Defense**

Jesus.

No other name in history has been associated with such good, such evil, and such confusion. Wars, the rise and fall of nations, and the tide of global human history have shifted by that very name. In almost every country, the figure of Jesus invokes passion of some kind. God is on trial, and the whole world is observing and deliberating their conclusions.

In this magnificent courtroom, humanity is called to the witness stand to testify either on behalf of or in opposition to the heavenly Defendant. This is where apologetics comes in. The Greek word _apologia_ was used in ancient courtrooms for giving a legal defense of some philosophical idea or experience. Peter used this word in his first epistle: “always be ready to give a defense [_apologia_] to everyone who asks you a reason for the hope that is in you, with meekness and fear” (1 Pet. 3:15). The Greek word _apologia_ is defined as “verbal defense, speech in defense.”<sup>1</sup> From that word, we derive the term apologetics, which means to give a good defense of theological beliefs through philosophy, science, the arts, and logic. Christian apologetics addresses arguments raised against Christianity and provides reasons to believe.

In Isaiah 43:10, God states, “You are My witnesses.” Note that God doesn’t say whether His witnesses are articulate, polished, or utterly horrible. He doesn’t ask us to become His witnesses either; we already are His witnesses. All you and I have to decide is what kind of testimony we will give about God.

Apologetics is an essential part of the Christian witness. You don’t have to be a theologian or pastor to be an effective apologist. Some of the best apologists are ordinary people who are simply committed to helping others understand the beauty and truth of God. In fact, we all engage in apologetics whether we realize that’s what we’re doing or not. The important thing is to be sure that the way we present our faith is thoughtful and effective, for the role of an apologist is to remove intellectual and emotional barriers to faith, enabling people to see a truer picture of God.

Sharing our faith through apologetics benefits not only others but also ourselves. As we engage in conversations about belief, apologetics help us become more confident in what we believe and why. This process reinforces our understanding of God’s goodness and enhances our sense of purpose in His greater plan. “Christians have always had to engage in apologetics—to give an account of the faith to those who inquire. In doing so, Christians inevitably reframe the faith for themselves.”<sup>2</sup> When done properly, apologetics breathes new life into the church as it reveals both the plausibility and the beauty of the Christian faith. Importantly, apologetics is not about being argumentative or winning debates. Instead, it’s about exploring better reasons for believing. It defends against anti-biblical philosophies, offers fresh platforms for dialogue, and ultimately guides people to see who God really is.

People are looking for answers—believable answers. One of the greatest challenges apologists face is combating misunderstandings about Christianity. This challenge expresses the mission of apologetics: to rescue Christianity from misinterpretations and false assumptions, showing its true nature to the world. In the end, apologetics is about clarifying the real picture of God as revealed in Scripture: the One who is love.

As we delve into the topic of apologetics through the next thirteen weeks, we will understand at a deeper level the reasons for our faith. We’ll be equipped with tools to explain and defend what we believe. Most importantly, we’ll come face to face with the God of love and be called to reflect that picture to others in the way we live our lives.

Apologetics Challenge: Have you ever thought of yourself as a Christian apologist? Why should more people become interested in apologetics instead of leaving it to pastors and experts?

### Apologetics Challenge

Have you ever thought of yourself as a Christian apologist? Why should more people become interested in apologetics instead of leaving it to pastors and experts?

### inScribe

Write out or make an outline of 1 Kings 10:1–13. How does Solomon interact with the Queen of Sheba and her questions? What principles of witnessing can we learn?

- Circle repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- Underline words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw Arrows to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

---

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>1</sup> Joseph H. Thayer, _Thayer’s Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament_ (2022), in “627. Apologia,” Bible Hub, https://biblehub.com/greek/627.htm

{"style": {"text": {"size": "sm"}}}
<sup>2</sup> Jeremiah Gibbs and Jason Byassee, “Explain Yourself: Making Belief Intelligible,” _The Christian Century_, September 23, 2008, https://www.christiancentury.org/article/2008-09/explain-yourself.