---
title:  The Greatest Apologetic
date:   01/01/2026
---

### inVite

Perhaps the biggest hindrance to faith in God is the very humans claiming to follow Him. The misrepresentations of God presented by Christians often actually deter people from Him. That’s an unpopular opinion, but the same was true about Jesus’ disciples early in their ministry. The Gospels describe the disciples’ anger toward the Romans, prejudice against the Samaritans, misguided zeal in defending Jesus, and hostility toward those who didn’t follow their methodology. If the disciples made mistakes, there’s no doubt that many Christians today do the same.

Thankfully, God is merciful, patient, and kind. He finds ways to use us despite our mistakes. Eventually, Christ’s disciples discovered the power of love. Where words fail, love does not. The greatest apologetic always has been and always will be love. In the words of one apologist: “The strongest argument in favor of the gospel is a loving and lovable Christian.”–Ellen G. White, _The Ministry of Healing_ (1905), 470. The greatest defense of God’s truth has always been a life of showing love to others. Love is a universal language that needs no translation. Being courteous to those who disagree with us, tenaciously loving the “unlovable,” going the extra mile, generously sharing our resources, and refusing to give up on others—these actions speak more powerfully on Jesus’ behalf than all the lectures of the greatest Christian philosophers. This might explain why Paul said, “Love never fails” (1 Cor. 13:8).

John’s writings speak more of love than any other New Testament book. In his epistles, he frequently used the words “God” and “love” together. John didn’t just say that God was loving; He said “God is love” (1 John 4:8, emphasis added). It’s impossible to speak properly of God’s existence without also speaking of His love, which reaches the very depths of human need.

Think about it. The four Gospels describe the life and ministry of Jesus Christ. These accounts contain more stories of Jesus healing and advocating for people than of preaching to them. Jesus was the greatest of all apologists, and we should follow His example. “Christ’s method alone will give true success in reaching the people. The Saviour mingled with men as one who desired their good. He showed His sympathy for them, ministered to their needs, and won their confidence. Then He bade them, ‘Follow Me.’ ”–White, _The Ministry of Healing_, 143. Love can include words but should extend far beyond them. The most effective apologetic transcends words and arguments.

### Questions to consider

`How have you seen love change people’s thinking when argumentation failed?`

`What stories come to mind when you think about how Jesus broke down barriers and won people’s hearts?`