---
title:  inQuire
date:   03/01/2026
---

In your Sabbath School class (or Bible study group), use the outline of questions below to study this week’s main passage and supporting verses. Consider these discussion questions with the rest of the group.

**Answering difficult questions:**

1. Why did the Queen of Sheba want to visit with King Solomon? _1 Kings 10:1–3_
2. Why was the Queen of Sheba impressed with Solomon and his religion? Why would a queen from a distant country and another religion bless the God of Israel? _1 Kings 10:3–13_
3. What principles can we learn from Solomon about how to engage people who ask hard questions?

`Personal reflection: What opportunities is God giving you to visit with people who have tough questions? How does sharing your faith strengthen your own beliefs and sense of purpose?`

**The case for apologetics:**

1. Why should believers study how to give a better defense of their faith? _1 Pet. 3:15; Prov. 15:28_
2. Should Christians care about counteracting poor arguments or false ideas? _2 Cor. 10:4, 5; Titus 1:9_
3. What example did Jesus give of asking incisive questions and providing needed answers? _Luke 2:46, 47_

`Personal reflection: What are examples of questions you’ve used or heard people use to engage others in meaningful conversations about faith?`

**Building credibility:**

1. How should we speak to people? What should our tone be? _Luke 4:22; Col. 4:5, 6_
2. What’s the strongest argument in favor of Christianity? _1 Cor. 13:8; 1 John 4:8_

`Personal reflection: How can you build credibility and influence with those around you?`

### Key takeaways to remember

- We should welcome opportunities to engage with people from other cultures and religions.
- Every believer, not just pastors or experts, should be ready to give a defense of their faith.
- People are moved more by love than by argumentation.