---
title:  Ignoring Jesus’ Principles
date:   13/01/2024
---

### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: Matthew 13:24–43**

**Ignoring Jesus’ Principles**

The blending of church and state that began under the Roman emperor Constantine (A.D. 306–337) was perfected during Emperor Justinian’s reign (A.D. 527–565). Constantine worked diligently to establish an empire where all citizens were united under one state and one religion. The church and state became so interconnected at this time that it’s difficult to distinguish between the two. From beginning to end, Justinian’s reign constituted an unswerving effort to unite everyone under one Catholic faith.

Justinian relentlessly suppressed every voice that was not aligned with Catholicism and deprived every dissenter of basic rights. The emperor not only required his citizens to abandon all previously held religious beliefs but also ordered them to be baptized and attend church with their wives and children. The law was publicly displayed in all provincial cities, and all had to observe Sunday as God’s holy day regardless of their convictions. If a citizen refused to conform, they were forced to flee the empire.

Of all who suffered under Justinian’s rule, the persecution against Christians who were deemed heretics was the most relentless. Justinian’s legal code defined heresy as “all thought and worship contrary to the Catholic and apostolic Church and the orthodox faith.” The church facilities belonging to dissenting congregations were seized and destroyed. Merchants were forbidden to buy and sell with heretics. All heretics’ goods were subject to seizure at any time. People caught teaching heresy were put to death, and anyone who offered such people refuge shared their punishment. Governors who failed to enforce these laws were heavily fined and removed from office.

Many probably believe such extreme religious intolerance is unlikely to recur in today’s world, but prophecy indicates that certain elements of this history will repeat. Unfortunately, many Christians who claim the name of Jesus are tempted to resort to force and coercion to gain compliance. This week’s lesson explores what Jesus taught about practicing religious intolerance toward dissenters.

### inScribe

Write out Matthew 13:24–43 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verses 24–30. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the passage.

` `

_We want to hear from you! Click [HERE](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/CZPQJWH) to fill out a survey and help shape the future of inVerse._