---
title:  Hands off!
date:   14/01/2024
---

### inGest

The parable of the wheat and tares was given to restrain the disciples’ impulse to forcefully correct unfaithful people, effectively prohibiting the church from using violence against heretics. Jesus began many of His parables by saying, “The kingdom of heaven is like...,” as if He was desperate to communicate something completely foreign to His audience. He was searching for any possible way to give them even a small glimpse of the revolutionary principles from above.

In the parable of the wheat and the tares (Matt. 13:24–29), Jesus once again painted a picture of what the kingdom of heaven is all about by contrasting the way God thinks and the way people think. The landowner illustrates the way God thinks. The way we think is represented by the servants, who were puzzled as to why the landowner would not respond to the crisis with immediate force. Shouldn’t the noxious weeds in the field be quickly pulled up and destroyed? They offered to immediately pull the weeds themselves, but the landowner perceived the unnecessary damage the wheat would endure if this were done prematurely and by the wrong hands. The servants were confused on two fronts: the proper timing and the proper agents. The landowner showed tender care and patience toward his crop, waiting for the grain to mature before the time of harvest.

Jesus clearly identified the time and people group represented in this parable. The good seed symbolizes the people God has saved while the weeds depict the wicked who will be destroyed (v. 38). Verse 39 spells out the rest: “the harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are the angels.” The timing of this harvest is crucial. All are commanded to keep their hands off the tares until the final judgment. Anyone who attempts to use force and intimidation to clean up God’s church before His decided time directly violates the God’s explicit instructions. Those who take it upon themselves to separate the heretics from the faithful make themselves wicked and disobedient servants, presume to do the work God has strictly delegated to angels (v. 41), and appropriate God’s authority.

Jesus gave this parable to His disciples early in their ministry to serve as a template for their future work. He identified certain methods of responding to problems that were permanently and absolutely off limits. This parable showed the disciples why they needed to trust God’s ability to resolve problems. Jesus taught them to restrain themselves and leave judgment for God to handle. If this one parable had been remembered and followed, it would have helped save the professed Christian church from descending into the ugly centuries of religious tyranny. This parable speaks directly to modern believers as well, inviting us to put our trust and confidence in God’s ability to be the final judge.

Go back to your scribed text and study the passage.

- [Circle] repeated words/phrases/ideas.
- [Underline] words/phrases that are important and have meaning to you.
- Draw [arrows] to connect words/phrases to other associated or related words/phrases.

`Memorize your favorite verse. Write it out multiple times to help memorization.`

`What steps can we take to get closer to God’s way of thinking?`

`Why do you think the professed Christian Church of later centuries forgot this parable’s principles?`