---
title:  What About Church Discipline?
date:   15/01/2024
---

### inTerpret

The parable of the wheat and the tares doesn’t mean the church cannot disfellowship members who have chosen open sin or renounced aspects of the faith. In fact, Jesus provided clear steps for the church to follow when a member has stubbornly chosen to continue down their path of sin (Matt. 18:15–20). Such people are not to be punished with any instrument of cruelty, for the severest measure against an unrepentant member is to disconnect them from the community of believers. Christ said, “If he refuses even to hear the church, let him be to you like a heathen and a tax collector” (Matt. 18:17). In looking at Jesus’ ministry to see how He related to heathens and tax collectors, we find that He was always seeking to win them over. He drew those who were teachable and ready to change into His inner circle. One thing is abundantly clear: Jesus never punished even the most degenerate heathens and tax collectors with fines, imprisonment, torture, or death. He never used coercion of any kind to grow and shape His church. The guidelines for church discipline in Matthew 18 therefore match the guidelines Jesus established in the parable of the wheat and the tares. The goal in every step of church discipline is always restoration and reconciliation.

1 Corinthians 5 provides a great example of how to apply these principles in difficult situations within the church. In this rather shocking instance, the church member in question was engaged in a sexual relationship with his stepmother and showed no signs of remorse. Paul gave instructions for this person to be decisively removed from the church’s fellowship (vv. 1–8). He urged the remaining members to no longer keep company with sexually immoral believers, though he made sure they understood that he didn’t mean they shouldn’t socialize with sexually immoral people of the world (vv. 9–11). Later, when this man repented of his ways, Paul encouraged the church to welcome him back into fellowship (2 Cor. 2:6–8). We know from this story and Jesus’ instructions that a responsible church will occasionally have to disfellowship people.

Some people think having religious liberty means a member can believe any false doctrine and still be a member of the church. This is a terrible distortion. In reality, religious liberty grants a person the autonomy to believe whatever they want and join a likeminded organization—as long as it doesn’t put others in danger. Religious liberty is not grounds to force an organization to work with people who do not align with their doctrinal teachings. Paul supported this idea, counseling some church leaders to “avoid” those who were teaching contrary doctrine (Rom. 16:17) and instructing others to stop the mouths of such false teachers (Titus 1:11). Paul didn’t mean they should call the police to prevent these false teachers from sharing their ideas in other venues; he simply warned the leaders not to give these speakers a platform in their own churches. If they wanted to spread their false ideas, they needed to go elsewhere, not hijack the church platform. Such counsel is pertinent to the church still today.

`After looking at your scribed and annotated text, what special insights do your marks overall seem to point to?`

`What questions emerge after studying this passage? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`Why is church discipline necessary to maintain the congregation’s spiritual health?`