---
title:  Force Versus Love
date:   17/01/2024
---

### inVite

It should be expected that a true follower of Christ would fight with the same weapons He used. The founders of other popular world religions conquered lands, fought with swords, and passed great wealth to their disciples, but Jesus never fought on an earthly battlefield, never sat on an earthly throne, and passed no earthly wealth to His followers. He rejected weapons of intimidation, force, and violence. His mission could only be accomplished with love, goodness, and simple persuasion. From beginning to end, Jesus placed an extremely high value on human dignity and free will. There is no greater evidence that a professed disciple of Christ has denied their Lord to serve another master than if they abandon His methods of love and resort to using force. Using cruelty in Christ’s name is arguably the ultimate self-deception. Jesus warned of this astounding delusion when He said, “The time is coming that whoever kills you will think that he offers God service” (John 16:2). Jesus predicted man’s most egregious abuses of religion.

Jesus upheld religious liberty because He had a perfect understanding of human nature and free will. When He said, “Do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul” (Matt. 10:28), He made it clear that personal choice is the only thing that can decide a person’s destiny. He knew that force can never change a person’s innermost beliefs—we cannot be forced to sin or to stop sinning. We can only be saved or lost according to whether or not we choose to cooperate with God. Dissenters cannot be corrected with force, and Christ has declared this method entirely off limits in His kingdom.

Without respect for free will, human beings become both the receivers and the enactors of subjugation and cruelty. Jesus came to restore the image of God in man, and God has free will. Humanity therefore cannot reflect His image unless free will is protected and honored. All who join Christ’s mission to restore God’s image in humanity will work to protect human free will.

If every person followed the golden rule, “Therefore, whatever you want men to do to you, do also to them, for this is the Law and the Prophets” (Matt. 7:12), the world would be relieved of religious liberty problems. Leaders from dominant religions would put themselves in the place of minority religions and treat them well—the way they would want to be treated if the roles were reversed. There would be a bond of sympathy and brotherhood between people of various religious traditions—even between the ones who disagree the most. Christians in particular should obey Jesus’ guidance and treat other religions with kindness and respect—again, the way they would want to be treated if they belonged to that religion. Especially in places where Christianity is the dominant worldview, Christians should be careful not to trample the rights of other religions. No matter how small the group of believers, we should always give other religions the same protection we desire for Christians living in Muslim or Hindu nations.

Meditate on the primary passage again and look for where Jesus is.

`What are some ways Jesus honored people’s free will?`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`Prayer Response:`