---
title:  Kicked Out for the Kingdom
date:  22/08/2020
---

#### inTro

Read This Week’s Passage: John 4:28–38 (36–38)

Kicked Out for the Kingdom

In Luke 10:2, Christ proclaimed to the seventy disciples before they went out, “The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few; therefore pray the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into His harvest.” While the translation is mildly put as “send out,” the original Greek is ekballo and is more akin to “throw,” “cast out,” or “violently thrust forth”! The sense is more forceful than the translation suggests. Christ indicated that these laborers had to be thrown forth into the work of the harvest!

Jesus uses the same word when casting out demons in Luke 11:20, and it is used when He Himself was “thrown” into the wilderness to be tempted for forty days in Mark 1:12. The sailors of Acts 27 “ekballo-ed” the wheat into the sea to lighten their ships. This word connotes a lot of action: Jesus was asking the seventy to pray for God to launch forth “ballistic missile” workers into His harvest work.

This week’s lesson looks at the fourth stage in the process of discipleship: harvest. All the efforts of preparing, planting, and cultivating have come to this point where souls are ready to make a decision for the kingdom of God. This is where the entire process comes to a climax, yet ironically “the laborers are few.” How willing are you to be a kicked-out disciple for the kingdom of God?

#### inScribe

Write out John 4:28–38 from the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, you may write out John 4:36–38. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, outline, or mind map the chapter.

``