---
title:  Separation in the Church
date:   12/07/2026
---

Paul gave the Corinthians this advice: “ ‘Please agree [cooperate] with each other. Do not become separate groups. Be united [joined together as one] and think about things in the same way’ ” (1 Corinthians 1:10, EASY). Paul talks about the idea of working together in peace in 1 Corinthians 1–4. This topic connects all parts of Paul’s letter together.

`Read 1 Corinthians 1:12–17. How do these verses help us understand why we should not say we are the followers of a church leader? How does Paul solve this problem?`

Paul uses strong words to talk about the fighting in the church at Corinth. Paul uses the Greek words _‘schisma_,’ which means ‘separation’ (1 Corinthians 1:10), and _‘eris_,’ which means ‘arguing’ (1 Corinthians 1:11). The Greek word _‘schisma’_ is used elsewhere in the New Testament to talk about the different views that cause separation in the church. New Testament writers often include the Greek word _‘eris’_ (‘arguing’) in their lists of bad behavior. Arguing is something that Christians should not do.

`Read the lists of sins in Romans 1:29; Romans 13:13; 1 Corinthians 3:3; 2 Corinthians 12:20; and Galatians 5:20. What other sins do you see in these lists, along with ‘eris’ (‘arguing,’ ‘fighting’)? What do these lists show us about how bad arguing and fighting are?`

Some church members got into fights. Then they went to the judges in the courts of law to solve their problems (1 Corinthians 6:1–3). Paul wrote to the church: “I say this so that you will feel ashamed. There is surely [for sure] a wise person in your group who could decide quarrels between yourselves” (1 Corinthians 6:5, EASY). Worse, members didn’t stop fighting before they celebrated the Lord’s Supper (1 Corinthians 11:17–22).

The fighting in the church worries and frightens Paul. So, the first thing he talks about in his letter to the Corinthians is the need for working together in peace.

`Read again 1 Corinthians 1:12–17. Then think about how these verses help us understand why groups that cause separation put the church in danger. What can your church do to avoid this problem?`