---
title:  Follow Jesus, and Not Human Leaders
date:   13/07/2026
---

`Read 1 Corinthians 1:10. What do you think Paul meant when he wrote, “Be united [joined together as one] and think about things in the same way” (EASY).`

When we fight and separate, we reject Jesus (1 Corinthians 1:10). God “chose you to be joined together with His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord” (1 Corinthians 1:9, NLV). Jesus is our Lord. He is the most important part of our life. So, then, what is the answer to these questions Paul asks: “Does Christ take sides [does Jesus divide His church? Does Jesus cause separation]? Did Paul die on the cross for you? Were you baptized in the name of Paul?” (1 Corinthians 1:13, NIrV)? The answer to each question is “No!” We were baptized “in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit” (Matthew 28:19, WE).

Paul says, “All of you together are Christ’s body. And **each of you** is a part of that body” (1 Corinthians 12:27, EASY, boldface added). The body has many parts. Each part has a job to do to make the body work. At the same time, all the parts make one body. This symbol helps us understand that Paul wants peace and agreement, and not for everyone in the church to be the exact same.

Another important idea for Paul is the teaching that Jesus is our Lord. Paul talks about this idea again and again. We see it in the opening of his letter (1 Corinthians 1:2, 7, 8, 9, 10). So, before Paul talks about the problems with separation and following human leaders, he talks about Jesus. Paul wants us to remember everything that Jesus as our Lord gives to us. The church doesn’t follow human leaders. We follow Jesus.

Look at Paul’s words in 1 Corinthians 1:10. The word written as “united [joined together as one]” comes from the Greek word _‘katartizō_.’ _‘Katartizō’_ means that something is made new. When church members follow human leaders, relationships in the church must be healed and made new. Only Jesus can make that happen. He helps us die to self. Then we can work together in peace in the church.

`In the past few years, many Seventh-day Adventists started small-group Bible studies. How is a small group different from a group that makes a human leader more important than God? How can we be careful that our small groups don’t do that?`