---
title:  Wisdom and Growth
date:   14/07/2026
---

How does separation in the church start? Separation starts when we praise human leaders too much. We make these leaders more important than they really are. Worse, we make them more important in our lives than God. This habit is not good for the church’s spiritual health.

`Read 1 Corinthians 3:1–4. How does Paul talk about the spiritual growth of the church members at Corinth?`

Spiritual growth helps Christians to respect God’s wisdom (1 Corinthians 2:6, 7). The Holy Spirit teaches us to understand God’s wisdom (1 Corinthians 2:13). God’s wisdom is different from human wisdom (1 Corinthians 2:6; 1 Corinthians 2:13). God shows us His wisdom in the cross of Jesus (1 Corinthians 2:1–4). Paul wants the church to work together in peace (1 Corinthians 3:1–17). But first, he wants his readers to understand their need for God’s wisdom and growth in Jesus.

Wise Christians are spiritual people. They do not live for the pleasures of this life. They are not the same as newborn babies (1 Corinthians 3:1). Wise Christians compare spiritual things with the Bible. That’s because “only God’s Spirit can explain them [the message that comes from God] to people” (1 Corinthians 2:13, 14, EASY). Wise Christians need spiritual “food” and not “milk” (1 Corinthians 3:2; compare with Hebrews 5:12). This spiritual food is a symbol for deep Bible truth. The Christian “who lives on milk is still [continues to be] a baby. He knows nothing about right teaching [Bible truth]. But solid food is for those who are grown up. They are mature [wise; grown up] enough to know the difference [to tell them apart] between good and evil” (Hebrews 5:13, 14, ICB). Wise Christians don’t say, “Paul is my leader’ ” Or, “ ‘Apollos is my leader’ ” (1 Corinthians 3:4, EASY).

We are all God’s workers (1 Corinthians 3:9). We, as a church, are the same as God’s field, building, and temple (1 Corinthians 3:9, 16, 17). We all belong to God because of Jesus (1 Corinthians 3:11).

`Did you praise or follow someone in the past who later disappointed or hurt you? What lesson did this experience teach you?`