---
title:  Serving As Jesus Served
date:   15/07/2026
---

`In 1 Corinthians 4:1, 2, Paul tells us how we should think about leaders in the church. What is Paul’s advice?`

In 1 Corinthians 3:1–4, Paul says that separation happens in the church when members aren’t growing in Jesus. Before Paul talks about this topic, he first says, “But we think about these things in the same way that Christ [the Savior] thinks” (1 Corinthians 2:16, EASY). Living the way Jesus thought and lived is not always easy, right? In the time of ancient Greece and Rome, leaders and thinkers fought each other for control and power. The church at Corinth wanted the people in their city to accept them. So, they did the things that the Corinthian people liked and praised. The church today may be in danger of doing the same thing.

`Read Philippians 2:5–8. How does this verse help us understand what it means to “think . . . in the same way that Christ [the Savior] thought” (1 Corinthians 2:16, EASY)?`

Separation also was happening in the church at Philippi (Philippians 2:1–4). But maybe the separations at Philippi were not as bad. Philippians 2:1–8 teaches us that we must serve the way Jesus served. How do we do that? We must die to self. We must stop being selfish. We must live to bless people more than ourselves. Jesus did that.

When we serve people as Jesus served them, we become “Christ’s [the Savior’s] servants” (1 Corinthians 4:1, EASY). The words “Christ’s servants” help us understand the idea we serve Jesus as His assistants or helpers. We will have the correct view about our leaders when we understand Jesus’ example of leadership. The servants of Jesus are also managers for Him (1 Corinthians 4:1, 2). What is a manager?­ A manager takes care of the property that belongs to someone else. Everything we own belongs to Jesus.

`Pray about the message in Philippians 2:5–8. What do these verses tell us about God’s love for us? Why must we die to self? How will that help us show God’s love to other people?`