---
title:  A Life That Shows The Cross
date:   16/07/2026
---

We must not worship our human leaders. But we should support them. Let’s be thankful for our leaders. Help them lead out in church work. God chooses people to do His work on this earth. We should respect good church leaders whose lives are examples of Jesus and the Cross.

Only Jesus can help someone become a good leader. The Cross helps leaders die to self. Then they won’t try to control other people. Good leaders in the church praise God for all their success. When Jesus worked on this earth, He gave all the praise for His success to God (John 17:4).

Paul tells us that our work for God must start with the Cross. The Cross shows us God’s wisdom and power to save. At the same time, the Cross shows us that human wisdom is weak and silly. In 1 Corinthians 4:1–13, Paul talks about leadership and the Cross. First, God decides what the rules are for good leadership (1 Corinthians 4:1–5). Second, Paul says that suffer­ing is part of any work we do for God (1 Corinthians 4:9, 11–13). Let’s talk a bit more about this second idea.

`What does it mean to suffer for Jesus? Read 2 Corinthians 11:23–28 and Colossians 1:24 for the answer.`

Christian leaders must follow Jesus. They must be willing to suffer for their brothers and sisters as Jesus did. Leaders must be willing to die for Jesus as they work for Him. Paul says that he and Apollos are “like [the same as] men sentenced to die” (1 Corinthians 4:9, ICB). Paul adds, “We continue to be hungry and thirsty. Our clothes have become old. Sometimes people hit us for no reason. We do not have our own homes” (1 Corinthians 4:11, EASY). Paul and Apollos also were hurt, attacked, and insulted. People behaved as if Paul and Apollos were the same as “garbage. We are [the same as] everybody’s trash, right up to this moment” (1 Corinthians 4:13, NIrV; also read verse 12). Paul also says the Corinthians are rich, wise, important, and the same as kings. Why does Paul say these things? He wants to show us that the Corinthians are filled with pride. Pride is not part of real Christian leadership. Pride is the cause of all separation in the church (1 Corinthians 4:6).

`How much did you suffer for Jesus in the past? What about now? What does your answer teach you about yourself?`