---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   17/07/2026
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Training of the Twelve,” pages 17–24, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“When we work together in peace in the church, we show everyone on earth that we are God’s chosen people. We show that we have the truth. Our working together in peace confuses and upsets the enemy. Satan does everything he can to destroy our peace and love in the church. When God’s people believe the truth and live it, they become powerful. Then their lives can change the lives of other people for the better.”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 1, page 327, adapted.

“God wants His people to be in perfect peace and love. His people will agree about Bible truth. Jesus died to make us ‘free from all evil. He wanted to make us pure [clean and holy]. He wanted us to be his very own people. He wanted us to desire [want] to do what is good’ [Titus 2:14, NIrV]. Jesus wants to remove the spirit of fighting from the church. Then the church can grow and become strong. Then we can do God’s work without destroying each other. God wants all His people to work together in peace and love. Jesus prayed before He died on the cross. He prayed that His followers would be joined together as one, just as He was joined as one with His father. Then everyone on earth will believe that God sent Jesus. Jesus’ prayer is wonderful and touches our hearts. His prayer is also for us today: ‘I do not ask this for these people only; I ask it also for the people who will believe in me when they hear what these people say’ [John 17:20, WE].”—Ellen G. White, Testimonies for the Church, volume 4, page 17, adapted.

**Discussion Questions:**

`At the end of Jesus’ work on earth, He prayed for His followers to work together in peace (John 17:21–23). Why is this peace in our hearts powerful proof that God sent Jesus to save sinners? Why is fighting a problem for the work God gave the church to do?`

`Read 1 Corinthians 4:9–13. What do these verses say about God’s chosen leaders? How are these leaders different from the leaders we see today?`

`In 1 Corinthians 4:16, Paul tells the Corinthians to copy him. What does Paul mean? How is copying a leader different from praising a leader too much?`