---
title:  An Anxious Heart
date:  22/02/2025
---

#### inTro

**Read This Week’s Passage: John 14**

**An Anxious Heart**

My father abandoned my family when I was about ten years old. Growing up in a broken home in Brooklyn, New York, I developed an anxious spirit and troubled mind at an early age. Life was constantly busy with lots of rushing here and there to be on time for school, events, gatherings, etc. Complicating my anxiety was the confusion and pain of not knowing why my dad left without saying goodbye or giving a reason for his departure—he was just suddenly absent from my life. I grew up with an emptiness in my heart and a longing for a dad to be in my life. Without a second provider, I was anxious as to whether we would have enough money for our next meal. Without a second protector, I was anxious about being in the rough streets of Brooklyn with no one to rely on should I need a defender. Without a second guide, I was anxious about who would counsel me when I needed someone to talk to. I tried to ignore my loneliness and pain by filling my life with activities like sports, but my fears persisted.

I often had thoughts like: “There’s no way I can survive in this city,” or “We will die of starvation.” At times, I would think things like, “I’ll never be able to cope with life; it’s just too much for me,” or “If my friends ever find out about my family’s brokenness and poverty, I’ll be ridiculed to no end.” As I grew into a teenager, my anxiety resulted in me being a loner and avoiding close relationships.

Fortunately, God did not leave me in that anxious state; Jesus has given us the solution to an anxious heart. I am alive today and I have peace because I applied God’s prescription for anxiety.

***Please note that this Bible study guide is intended for spiritual guidance only and should not be considered a substitute for professional mental health treatment.***

#### inScribe

Write out what stands out to you from John 14 using the translation of your choice. If you’re pressed for time, write out verse 27. You may also rewrite the passage in your own words, or outline or mind-map the chapter.

` `