---
title:  Is Real Peace Possible?
date:  23/02/2025
---

#### inGest

Anxiety is the most common mental disorder worldwide. Physical symptoms of anxiety can be headaches or migraines, heart flutters, or feeling a heavy weight in the throat or stomach. The anxious mind says: “I’m overwhelmed!” “I don’t have any control in my life!” “I’m scared of my future and of what’s going to happen.” These feelings, physical sensations, and thoughts take over our lives and take the joy out of each day. Our focus narrows, and fear builds. The path of anxiety often leads to habits of isolation and loneliness.

To the anxious mind, Jesus, the Prince of Peace (Isa. 9:6), offers true and lasting peace. Christ’s peace is nothing like the peace this world offers. The peace we need to seek is not this world’s or even our own but is from above, through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit (John 14:27).

Jesus promised peace to His disciples on the most fearful night of their lives. Jesus had just finished the Passover supper with His disciples and knew He was about to be arrested, tried, and falsely convicted of crimes He did not commit. As Jesus warned that their faith was about to be severely tested, Peter declared with confidence that he would never deny Jesus, even if he died because of it. Christ responded that Peter didn’t know his own heart and would deny Him not just once but three times. What happened next is quite astounding! Jesus told Peter, “Let not your heart be troubled.… I go to prepare a place for you.…I will come again and receive you to Myself; that where I am, there you may be also” (vv. 1–3). Jesus was trying to help Peter focus his mind not on his mistakes and failures but instead on the Savior.

Christ’s words to Peter assure us that when our circumstances cause anxiety, we can find peace in dwelling on what God is doing for us. This transcendent peace comes through following “the way, the truth, and the life” (v. 6), depending on God through prayer (vv. 12–14), expressing love to God through obedience to His Word (v. 15), resting in the power and presence of the Holy Spirit (vv. 16–18), and allowing the fullness of the Godhead to dwell in us (vv. 23–29). As we grow in this close relationship with God, His peace eases our fears (v. 27). This peace is a mystery the world cannot explain. The worse our troubles become, the more profound God’s peace is.

Journal:

`Memorize your favorite verses from John 14. Write them out multiple times to help with memorization.`

`How does the world’s peace differ from Christ’s peace?`

`What stands in the way of you more fully experiencing the peace Christ offers?`

` `