---
title:  Peace and The Christian
date:  24/02/2025
---

#### inTerpret

In ancient Eastern cultures, customary greetings and partings commonly included a word of peace (Luke 10:5; John 20:19; Eph. 1:2; 2 Thess. 3:16). In John 14:27, however, Jesus gave no ordinary farewell. Much more than the customary “go in peace” of the time, Jesus offered a peace nobody else can give. The New Living Translation emphasizes the vivid reality of Christ’s promise: “I am leaving you with a gift—peace of mind and heart. And the peace I give is a gift the world cannot give. So don’t be troubled or afraid.” Jesus knew that life for His disciples and all future believers wouldn’t be easy. He knew that many trials and sorrows lay ahead for both them and us, so He left us with words of encouragement: “In Me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world” (John 16:33, NKJV). That Jesus has overcome Satan and death provides us peace of mind and heart in all circumstances.   The Greek word for peace (eirēnē) has various meanings, including the traditional welcome and farewell as used in Christ’s time. It can describe inner tranquility and calm or the end of war and conflict. In John 14:27, however, Jesus promised a different kind of peace on earth. The angels at Jesus’ birth announced this peace when they declared, “Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men!” (Luke 2:14). When the Messiah came, He brought God’s kingdom of peace. Isaiah foretold that the Messiah would come as the “Prince of Peace” (Isa. 9:6). In fulfilling His mission of peace, Christ’s parting gift to His disciples was one of peace (John 14:27; 16:33; 20:19–26). The ultimate endowment of peace was granted to us in God’s gift of salvation, purchased by the blood of Jesus Christ through His sacrifice on the cross. Through Christ’s death, we have been granted access to God’s throne and to restored fellowship with our heavenly Father. Through His life, we find peace by studying His example in ministry, His values, His convictions, and His promises. “Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ” (Rom. 5:1). Peace with God is foundational to every other kind of peace we need.

God’s peace reflects His divine character. It derives from His presence working in our lives (Isa. 26:12; 2 Thess. 3:16; 2 John 1:3). God stands ready to pour His perfect peace into our minds (Isa. 26:3). Although we cannot fully fathom this peace with our human minds, it is real and obtainable in Christ. Today, to anyone who believes in Jesus and commits to following Him, He says, “My peace I give to you” (John 14:27).

Journal:

`What questions emerge after studying John 14? What parts are difficult?`

`What other principles and conclusions do you find?`

`How has Christ given you peace in the most impossible situations?`

` `