---
title:  Taking our Anxieties to Jesus
date:  26/02/2025
---

#### inVite

Throughout my life, the peace of God has often seemed out of reach. During those times, though I longed for God’s peace, I couldn’t find it. Looking back, I’ve realized that my choices then didn’t bring me the peace I longed for. At the time, my eyes were fixed on myself and my problems. My heart was discontent, and I grumbled at my circumstances. I relied on myself to escape the difficulty and pain. I seemed to forget all I knew about God’s love, care, concern, and sovereignty. God was still there. He was with me and was offering me His peace the whole time. I could’ve chosen to grasp onto His peace. I simply chose something besides Him. Since then, praise the Lord, I have grown in Christ, and I now respond to challenging circumstances differently.

To find peace and freedom from anxiety, we must first take our problems to God in prayer. Calling on Jesus’ name is an excellent way to stop negative thoughts from racing through our minds and start refocusing on the Truth—Jesus! That’s what Philippians 4:6 tells us to do: “Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God.” As you take your anxieties to Him, He gives you His peace. In addition to bringing our concerns and requests to God, we bring them with an attitude of thanksgiving, despite our hardships. Thankfulness can bring peace during difficult times. Training our brains to acknowledge the good and thank God helps us to receive God’s presence and have less anxiety.

To experience the blessing of peace, our minds must learn to meditate on that which is true and good (Phil. 4:8). As we focus on things that are true, noble, just, pure, and lovely, peace will fill our hearts (v. 9). Jesus said the truth sets us free (John 8:32). Both anxiety and depression can be relieved when a “good word” is spoken (Prov. 12:25). God’s Word is the best word to reverse our anxious thoughts. As we embrace God’s promises, we place our faith in Him and trust Him with the outcome.

God’s will is for us to find joy, peace, and abundant hope (Rom. 15:13). In addition to seeking healing from God, people with clinical anxiety or post-traumatic stress disorder should seek professional medical help. Just as believers with physical illnesses combine their prayers with medical treatment, Christians with mental conditions should rely no less on professional help when needed.

Journal:

`Meditate on John 14 again and look for what Jesus wants to do in your life.`

`How do you see Jesus differently or see Him again?`

`What changes do you believe Jesus is asking you to make so that you can receive the peace He wants to give you?`

` `