---
title:  A Life of Peace
date:  27/02/2025
---

#### inSight

“Christ is ‘the Prince of Peace’ (Isaiah 9:6), and it is His mission to restore to earth and heaven the peace that sin has broken. ‘Being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.’ Romans 5:1. Whoever consents to renounce sin and open his heart to the love of Christ, becomes a partaker of this heavenly peace.

“There is no other ground of peace than this. The grace of Christ received into the heart, subdues enmity; it allays strife and fills the soul with love. He who is at peace with God and his fellow men cannot be made miserable. Envy will not be in his heart; evil surmisings will find no room there; hatred cannot exist. The heart that is in harmony with God is a partaker of the peace of heaven and will diffuse its blessed influence on all around. The spirit of peace will rest like dew upon hearts weary and troubled with worldly strife” (Ellen G. White, Thoughts from the Mount of Blessings [1896], 27, 28).

“Before our Lord went to His agony on the cross, He made His will. He had no silver or gold or houses to leave to His disciples. He was a poor man, as far as earthly possessions were concerned. Few in Jerusalem were so poor as He. But He left His disciples a richer gift than any earthly monarch could bestow on his subjects. ‘Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you,’ He said, ‘not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.’

“He left them the peace which had been His during His life on the earth, which had been with Him amidst poverty, buffeting, and persecution, and which was to be with Him during His agony in Gethsemane and on the cruel cross.

“The Saviour’s life on this earth, though lived in the midst of conflict, was a life of peace. While angry enemies were constantly pursuing Him, He said, ‘He that sent me is with me; the Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those things that please him.’ No storm of satanic wrath could disturb the calm of that perfect communion with God. And He says to us, ‘My peace I give unto you.’

“Those who take Christ at His word, and surrender their souls to His keeping, their lives to His ordering, will find peace and quietude. Nothing of the world can make them sad when Jesus makes them glad by His presence. In perfect acquiescence there is perfect rest. The Lord says, ‘Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on Thee; because he trusteth in Thee’ “ (Ellen G. White, The Signs of the Times, December 27, 1905).

Journal:

`After this week’s study, what personal applications are you convicted of in your life?`

`What’s one personal goal you want to set to have greater peace in your life?`

`Review your memory verse. How does it speak to you today?`

` `