#### Beyond Death

We live in a world that is obsessed with the supernatural. Spiritualism has inundated the media and the entertainment world. One regularly hears about zombies, out-of-body and near-death experiences, ghosts, zombies, and spirits of the dead coming back as angels. Sadly, spiritualism, once taboo among Christians, has even infiltrated the Christian church. The foundational idea of spiritualism is that people can live in sin in this life and still live forever.

Those of us who believe that the dead sleep until the resurrection use some favorite verses to prove our point. The most common is Ecclesiastes 9:5. “For the living know that they will die; but the dead know nothing, and they have no more reward, for the memory of them is forgotten” (ESV). This verse is unambiguously clear, right? Yes, it is. There are other verses in Scripture, however, that seem to teach that the soul survives the body at death. Passages such as the rich man and Lazarus (Luke 16:19–31), absent from the body and present with the Lord (2 Corinthians 5:1–10), the spirits of just men made perfect (Hebrews 12:22–24), the thief on the cross (Luke 23:42), the souls under the altar (Revelation 6:9–11), Rachel’s departing soul (Genesis 35:18), and the dead who stand before God (Revelation 20:12) can be perplexing even to those who believe in “soul sleep.”

As Seventh-day Adventists, we cannot simply brush these difficult texts aside and act as if they don’t exist. Neither can we ignore them or make lists of texts that compete with the texts of those who believe in the immortality of the soul. We must honestly and carefully study them to show that they are in perfect harmony with Ecclesiastes 9:5.

In this quarter’s lessons, we will examine some of these difficult texts. An ability to explain them is vitally important because the Bible tells us that Satan will use all his deceptive power at the end of days to sweep the world into the delusion of spiritualism in its various forms. The book of Revelation describes the spirits of devils going out to gather the whole world for the final battle against God (Revelation 16:13, 14).

Satan’s target audience will be the elect (Matthew 24:24), and therefore they must be firmly rooted in the truth that the dead are dead and cannot communicate with the living. Someday soon, God’s people will be brought before judges and rulers to give reasons for their faith (Luke 21:12–15), and the perplexing texts on the state of the dead will undoubtedly come up. Will God’s people be able to explain them in a way that will convict these civic leaders? Ellen White wrote: “Many will have to stand in the legislative courts; some will have to stand before kings and before the learned of the earth, to answer for their faith. Those who have only a superficial understanding of truth will not be able clearly to expound the Scriptures, and give definite reasons for their faith” (Fundamentals of Christian Education, 217).

In Eden, Satan disguised his identity by using a serpent as a medium and deceived Eve with two inseparable lies. First, he told Eve that she did not have to obey God’s command because her own wisdom would enable her to distinguish between good and evil. Second, he told her that if she ate the fruit, she would not die but live forever. In short, disobey the law and live forever! Two voices spoke in Eden—the voice of God and the voice of the serpent. Obedience to God’s Word meant loyalty to His authority, while obedience to the serpent’s word mean loyalty to the serpent’s authority.

The same issue will face the world in the final days. Satan’s power to deceive at the end will be far greater than it was at the beginning. “Satan, working now with tenfold greater power, succeeds as of old in blinding the eyes of men and darkening their understanding” (Ellen G. White, Signs of the Times, June 21, 1883). “Through the two great errors, the immortality of the soul and Sunday sacredness, Satan will bring the people under his deceptions” (White, The Great Controversy, 588). Matthew 24:23–27 and 2 Thessalonians 2:1–13 tell us that Satan will even counterfeit the second coming of Christ by impersonating Him. If Satan can impersonate Christ, he and his angels can certainly disguise themselves as human beings, especially departed relatives and friends.

The focus of this quarter is not on Satan but on the Savior’s admonition to His disciples about the nature of death, what is beyond death, and the deceptions associated with the afterlife. It will be the student’s task to apply biblical principles in the contemporary context to discern what is truth from error. This study will look at the more difficult Bible passages to secure in the Christian disciple to trust the Word deeper, rely on the Holy Spirit harder, and continue her/his devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ higher.