---
title: 'The Good News That Continues Forever'
date: 08/04/2023
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Revelation 1:1–3; 1 Corinthians 15:1–4; Revelation 13:8; Matthew 28:19, 20.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “Then I saw another angel flying across the sky. He had good news that will last [continue] for ever to tell the people who live on the earth. The good news is for every country, tribe [family group], language, and nation [people group]” (Revelation 14:6, WE).

During Old Testament times, the people living near the Israelites worshiped gods made from wood and stone. But Israel worshiped the Lord God who made the sky and the earth. Moses said, “ ‘Listen [pay attention], people of Israel! The Lordord is our God. The Lordord is the only God’ ” (Deuteronomy 6:4, ERV). This verse became a prayer for the Israelites. The word written as “listen” comes from the Hebrew word “shema.” So, the name for this prayer is the “Shema.” This prayer helped the Jews to remember God’s plan for them as a people. This prayer also helped Israel to want to serve God as His special people.

As Seventh-day Adventists, what is our “Shema”? What Bible teaching helps us remember both who we are as a people and the work God gave us to do as His church? The answer is: the Three Angels’ Messages in Revelation 14:6–12 are our Shema. This week, we will study the Three Angels’ Messages. This message is three messages in one. We will look at God’s mercy in this message. We will see why mercy is so important to our understanding of the Three Angels’ Messages.