---
title: 'A Book Filled With Mercy And Hope'
date: 09/04/2023
---

What do you picture in your mind when you think about the book of Revelation? Scary animals? Strange word pictures? Mysterious warnings and signs? Sad to say, Revelation scares many people because they don’t understand it. But the book also fills many people with hope. God gives us plenty of reasons in Revelation to be happy about His plan to save sinners.

`Read Revelation 1:1–3. What do these verses teach us about the book of Revelation? Now read Revelation 14:6. What does this verse teach us about the Good News that continues forever?`

The book of Revelation is all about Jesus. This book is Jesus’ message of hope to His people from New Testament times to the Second Coming. Revelation has many messages for God’s church during the end times. The book of Revelation is filled with mercy and love. The book shows us Jesus as the Lamb who was killed for us. The book promises a blessing to everyone who reads, understands, and obeys its Bible truth.

In Revelation 1:5, 6, we see Jesus as the One who “loves us. By [with] his own blood [death] he has made us free from the wrong things we have done. He [Jesus] has made us into [chosen us to be] kings and priests [spiritual leaders] to his God and Father” (WE). God forgives us because of Jesus. God pardons our past sins. God gives us a new life now. God gives us hope for the future. Because of Jesus, God frees us from the penalty for our sin. Because of Jesus, God ends sin’s control over our lives. Someday soon, Jesus will come back and end sin forever.

The book of Revelation also shows us the word picture of an angel flying fast in the middle of the sky. This angel has the Good News that continues forever. Do you see that the Good News about Jesus comes at the beginning of the Three Angels’ Messages? God wants us to know that we are saved by His mercy because of our faith in everything Jesus does for us. We have the promise of everlasting life because of Him.

`What is Revelation’s most important message? What do all the word pictures and warnings teach us the answer is?`