---
title: 'The Good News That Continues Forever'
date: 10/04/2023
---

(1 Corinthians 15:1–4)

Look at how the Three Angels’ Messages start: “Then I saw another angel flying in the heavens. He was carrying the Good News that lasts [continues] forever” (Revelation 14:6, NLV). Revelation 14:6 begins with the Good News. So, we see that the Good News is important to the Three Angels’ Messages. If we fail to understand the Good News, we will not understand the Three Angels’ Messages. We won’t understand God’s work for us as Judge that the First Angel’s Message talks about. We won’t understand about Babylon in the Second Angel’s Message. And we won’t understand the mark, or sign, of the wild animal in the Third Angel’s Message.

`Read 1 Corinthians 15:1–4; Romans 3:24–26; and Romans 5:6–8. What do these verses teach us about the Good News that continues forever? What hope do these verses give us?`

The Good News is God’s message to us that Jesus died for our sins. The Good News also tells us that Jesus woke up from the dead for us. The Good News tells us that Jesus loves and cares for us, too. We must believe in Jesus’ death for us on the cross. Then He can free us from the penalty for our sins. Jesus can free us from sin’s control over our lives, too. Paul understood these Bible truths. Jesus filled Paul’s thoughts and his writings. Jesus made Paul free from the guilt of his past sins. Jesus gave Paul control over his thoughts and behavior. Jesus also gave Paul hope for the future.

Look at four teachings that Paul talks about in the verses we just read in 1 Corinthians and in Romans:

1.	God freely forgives us because of His mercy.

2.	Mercy shows us that God is holy.

3.	God’s mercy makes us clean when we accept Jesus.

4.	God showed His love to us while we were sinners.

We can’t do anything to earn Jesus’ mercy. Jesus died a painful and awful death. Sinners who refuse to accept Jesus will die this death. On the cross, Jesus accepted God the Father’s anger against sin. Jesus was rejected so that we can be accepted. Jesus died the death that was ours, so that we can live the life that was His.

God made this saving plan before time started (2 Timothy 1:9; Titus 1:2). This information helps us understand why God’s plan is named the Good News that continues forever.