---
title: 'A Story About Mercy And God’s Loving Favor'
date: 11/04/2023
---

The Three Angels’ Messages tell us the story about God’s mercy and loving favor. The Three Angels’ Messages tell us the story about our Savior’s love for us. This love has no end. This love has no limits. This love can’t die. We can’t fully understand it. Jesus loves us so much that He chose to die so that no one would need to be lost.

Nothing can surprise God. Not even sin. As we saw already, God’s plan to save us from sin wasn’t something that He came up with after sin happened. God’s saving plan was something that He made before He made this earth.

`Read Revelation 13:8 and 1 Peter 1:18–20. What do these verses teach us about God’s saving plan?`

The Good News that continues forever shows us the past, our time now, and the future. When God gave us free choice, He knew that we would make bad choices. We are free to choose evil. Could God make us so that we don’t choose evil? Yes, but we would not be free. We would be the same as robots who were forced to serve Him. God doesn’t want to force us to serve Him. That goes against His plan. To be free to love means that we must have a choice. When people can choose, they can choose the wrong thing. So, God made His saving plan before our first parents sinned in Eden.

“God didn’t make His saving plan at the last minute. God didn’t make the plan to save us after Adam sinned. No, God’s plan ‘about Christ is the secret truth that was hidden for long ages past, but is now made known.’ Romans 16:25, [ICB]. This plan showed God’s love. The law of love controls God’s government forever.”—Ellen G. White, The Desire of Ages, page 22, adapted.

As we said, the Good News that continues forever is about everything God did for us in the past. The Good News also is about the things Jesus does for us now. But the Good News is about our future hope, too. Our hope is that we may live forever with Jesus.

`Ephesians 1:4 says that God chose us to be saved before He made the earth. What does this Bible truth mean? Why should this teaching encourage you?`