---
title: 'To Everyone On Earth'
date: 12/04/2023
---

`Read Revelation 14:6 again. This verse talks about the Good News that God’s people must announce. Who must they share this announcement with?`

The Good News must be announced to every people group and family group on earth. The Good News must be shared in every language on earth, too. Wow! This task is a big one. So, we must give God our best efforts to help Him do this work. We must give Him all our hearts. When we announce the Good News, we will put Jesus first. We will want to serve Him more than we want anything else in this life.

`Read Matthew 28:19, 20. What is the connection between these verses in Matthew and the First Angel’s Message in Revelation 14:7? What do both sets of verses teach that is the same?`

Paul David Tripp wrote a book named A Quest for More: Living for Something Bigger Than You. In this book, Tripp says that all humans have the need to be part of something more important than they are. Tripp writes, “God made people to be part of something more important than their own lives. Sin causes us to be selfish. God’s mercy saves us from living only for ourselves. God’s mercy frees us to live for the kingdom of God.”

When we are part of God’s work, we become part of something that He started. God started the Seventh-day Adventist Church to help finish His work on earth in the end times. This work is bigger than any one person can do on his own. God gave His end-time church a job. John wrote in Revelation 14 about that job. Revelation 14 shows us what God wants from us. God wants us to give our lives to the biggest job He gave humans. What is this job? We must show God’s love to everyone on earth just before Jesus’ Second Coming.

`Have you been part of something bigger than yourself in the past? Share your experience with the class. How does this experience help you understand the idea we talked about in today’s study? Also, is there anything at all that you can think of that is bigger than working with God to finish His work on this earth?`