---
title: 'Going Where God Wants Us To Go'
date: 13/04/2023
---

The first Adventists studied the Bible carefully. As they studied, they started to understand more fully the Three Angels’ Messages. The first Adventists believed that the Three Angels’ Messages were God’s end-time warning. They also believed that this message must be announced in every language and to everyone on earth to help them get ready for Jesus to come back. The Three Angels’ Messages are the reason for our worldwide work since our church first started.

In 1874, the General Conference sent our first Bible worker to Europe. The General Conference is the headquarters for the leadership of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. Ellen G. White said that John Andrews was the best man we had for the job. Andrews spoke at least seven languages. He learned and remembered every word of the New Testament. Andrews knew most of the Old Testament, too. He was very smart. He wrote many books and articles. He also was a powerful preacher and a Bible expert.

`Why send Andrews to a place where there were very few believers? Why send the best man you had to a place so far away from everyone and everything he knew? Why was Andrews willing to go? His wife died a few years earlier. Why was he willing to leave family and friends behind in America to sail with his two children to a faraway place and put his life and his children’s lives in possible danger?`

There is only one reason. Andrews believed that Jesus was coming soon. He believed that the end-time message of Bible truth must go to everyone on earth.

During our whole history as a church, our best and smartest people have traveled to faraway lands to announce God’s end-time message. This group of people included teachers, doctors, nurses, pastors, farmers, mechanics, carpenters, and businessmen and women of all types. Some of these people already worked for the church. But many of these professionals did not. Many of these Bible workers were church members who believed Jesus was coming soon.

`Read Revelation 14:6; Acts 1:8; and Matthew 24:14. What do you see in these verses that is the same?`

So far, our church has preached the Good News and God’s message about the end times in 210 of the 235 countries on the earth.