---
title: 'Further Thought'
date: 14/04/2023
---

Think more about the idea in Wednesday’s study that humans need to be part of something more important than their own lives. Our lives are short. Often, they are evil and sad. So, we need to live for something more important than ourselves. Is there anything more important than announcing that Jesus is coming back soon?

“God’s servants will go from place to place. They will move fast. Their faces will be lit up and shining with God’s holy life. Thousands of God’s servants will warn the people everywhere on earth. God’s people will do miracles. They will heal the sick. Many signs and wonderful things will happen wherever they go. Satan also will work. Satan will do miracles, too. But his miracles are lies and tricks. Satan will make fire come down from the sky in front of people. Revelation 13:13. Everyone on earth will learn what they need to know so that they can decide for Jesus or against Him.”—Ellen G. White, The Great Controversy, page 612, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`“Several people wrote me. They asked me about the teaching that God in His mercy forgives our sins and makes us holy because of our faith in Jesus. These people asked if this message is the same as the Third Angel’s Message. I answered them, ‘Yes, it is the Third Angel’s Message, for sure.’ ”—Ellen G. White, Advent Review and Sabbath Herald, April 1, 1890, adapted. How are the Three Angels’ Messages connected to the teaching that God in His mercy forgives us and makes us holy because of our faith in Jesus?`

`Think more about the idea that the Good News continues forever. Why is the Good News everlasting?`

`As a church, we have Bible workers in many countries everywhere on earth. Why do you think we need Bible workers everywhere? How does God bless their work? What more can your local church and Sabbath School class do to help finish God’s work on earth?`