---
title:  The Children Of Abraham
date:  01/05/2021
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Ezekiel 16:8; Deuteronomy 28:1, 15; Jeremiah 11:8; Genesis 6:5; John 10:27, 28.

> <p>Memory Text</p>
> “But God chose you to be his people. You are royal priests [religious leaders]. You are a holy nation [people from the same country]. You are God’s special treasure. You are all these things so that you can give him [God] praise. God brought you out of darkness [sin] into his wonderful light” (1 Peter 2:9, NIrV).

THE CLOCK in the window of a jewelry shop stopped. The clocked stopped at exactly 8:45 A.M. Many townspeople depended on this clock. On the morning that the clock stopped, businesspeople looked in the window of the shop. When they saw the clock, they thought it was only 8:45 a.m. Children on their way to school also looked at the clock. The children thought that they had lots of time to play before school started. Many people were late that morning. All because one small clock in the window of the jewelry shop stopped.”—C. L. Paddock, God’s Minutes (Nashville, TN: Southern Publishing Association, 1965), page 244, adapted.

This story shows us how Israel failed to do the job God gave them. God put Israel in the middle of many different countries. God wanted Israel to be the same as a spiritual “clock” that showed people their need of God. But Israel was the same as the clock in the jewelry shop. Just as the clock stopped showing time, Israel stopped showing people who God was. But not everyone in Israel failed. Back then, God had people who were loyal to Him. This week, we will learn about the people who follow God in every age.