---
title:  Chosen By God 
date:  02/05/2021
---

**‘You are a holy nation [people from the same country]. The LORD your God has set [separated] you apart for himself. He has chosen you to be his special treasure. He chose you out of all the nations on the face [from every part] of the earth to be his people’ ” (Deuteronomy 7:6, NIrV).**

The Lord chooses the Hebrew people to be His special people. God wants His people to teach other people on the earth about God. Do you see the word written as “special” in Deuteronomy 7:6, NIrV? In the Hebrew, this word is “segulah.” “Segulah” also can be written as “property that is worth a lot.” “Segula” can be written as “special treasure,” too, as the verse above shows us. “Segulah” shows us an important idea about the choice that God makes. His choice shows us His loving favor. The people of Israel do not do anything special to cause God to choose them. They cannot. Humans cannot do anything to earn favor from God. The loving favor of God is a gift.

`Read Ezekiel 16:8. How does this verse help explain why the Lord chooses Israel?`

“Why does the Lord choose Israel to be His special people? Israel is a small people group. They are not famous or important. Israel does not do anything special to earn the favor of God. . . . The real cause for this choice is love. God loves Israel. By this choice, God keeps His promise to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. . . . God makes Israel free from slavery in Egypt. This freedom shows Israel that God is powerful. Israel needs to understand everything that God has done for them and His love for them. Then Israel will know that they are a special treasure. God honors them. That is why it is awful for Israel ever to think about turning away from being the people of God.”—J. A. Thompson, Deuteronomy (London: Inter-Varsity Press, 1974), pages 130, 131, adapted.

God plans for Israel to be His special religious leaders and kings. As kings, Israel must win the war against sin (Revelation 20:6). As religious leaders, Israel must give God praise and offerings. God wants Israel to be His living examples on this earth. Then they will show other people about God and Bible truth.