---
title:  Land Deal 
date:  03/05/2021
---

God makes Abraham a promise. God will give a country to the future children of Abraham. But God tells Abraham that 400 years must pass before his future children can own the land (Genesis 15:13, 16). God makes this promise again to Isaac and Jacob. Later, Joseph talks about this promise right before he dies (Genesis 50:24). God starts to keep His promise to Israel in the days of Moses and Joshua. Moses tells Israel the command of God: “ ‘Look, I am giving you this land. Go and take it’ ” (Deuteronomy 1:8, ERV).

`Read Deuteronomy 28:1, 15. These verses hint at something that God promises to Israel. What is it? The answer is that God will give the land to Israel as part of the special agreement. An agreement shows us that all the people in the agreement must do their part. What must Israel do as part of the agreement?`

The first part of Deuteronomy 28 shows the blessings that God will give Israel if they follow His plan. The last part of the chapter shows us what will happen to Israel if they do not follow God. God will allow curses to happen to them. “These curses happen mostly because Israel sins against God. God allows sin to grow until it becomes a curse to His people. Then His people can see that sin is very evil. . . . ‘If a man does things to please his sinful [full of sin] old self, his soul will be lost. If a man does things to please the Holy Spirit, he will have life that lasts forever’ (Galatians 6:8, NLV). Sin is the same as water, a clock, and a tree. Water will flow down a mountain and not stop until it reaches a lower place. A clock will not stop ticking until its battery runs out. A tree that someone does not chop down will grow fruit. In the same way, sin must run down, run out, and grow its awful fruit. These three things “only bring death” (Romans 6:21, ICB).”—The Pulpit Commentary: Deuteronomy, H. D. M. Spence and Joseph S. Exell, eds. (Peabody, MA: Hendrickson Publishers, 1890), volume 3, page 439, adapted.

God promises many times to give Israel land as part of His agreement. But Israel must keep their part of the bargain too. If they do not, then God cannot keep His promises to them. The Lord warns His people what will happen if they disobey Him (read Leviticus 26:27–33). The warning is clear. God will take the land from His people.