---
title:  Israel And The Covenant 
date:  04/05/2021
---

**‘But your ancestors [people from long ago] did not listen to [obey] me. They were stubborn and did what their own evil hearts wanted. The agreement says that bad things will happen to them if they don’t obey. So I made all the bad things happen to them. I commanded them to obey the agreement, but they did not’ ” (Jeremiah 11:8, ERV).**

The Lord says that He will make “ ‘all the bad things happen’ ” in the agreement. We mostly think about the agreement as something that offers us only good things, right? But the agreement has a good side and a bad side. We see this same important rule in the special agreement with Noah. God offers to save Noah from the Flood. But Noah must obey God. Then Noah will get the blessings that come with the agreement. But what if Noah does not obey? Then bad things will happen.

`Compare Jeremiah 11:8 with Genesis 6:5. What is the same about both verses? What do these verses show us about how important it is for us to control our thoughts?`

Sadly, the Bible shows us that Israel often does not obey God. So, God judges them. His punishments cause Israel to turn from sin. They obey God for a little while. But then they sin again. The only time Israel controls all the land that God promises them is during the time when David and Solomon are king. But that is only for a short time.

`Jeremiah shows us how much the people of God turn away from Him: “ ‘Suppose [what if] a man divorces his wife. What if she then marries another man? Should her first husband return [go back] to her again? If he does, won’t the land become completely [fully] “unclean” [full of guilt and sin]? People of Israel, you have lived like [the same as] a prostitute [someone who has sex for pay]. You have loved many other gods. So do you think you can return [come back] to me now?’ ” announces the LORD (Jeremiah 3:1, NIrV). This verse shows us that God wants a personal connection with His people. The special agreement is the same as a marriage. That is why God uses marriage as a word picture. It shows us the reason that Israel turns away from God: they broke their love connection with God. This broken friendship causes them to disobey God. Their disobedience finally causes God to punish them.`