---
title:  The Small Group That Loves And Obeys God 
date:  05/05/2021
---

**As we saw yesterday, Bible history shows us that Israel keeps turning away from God. So, God punishes them. Then the people turn back to God. This same thing happens again and again. At the same time, what hope for the people of God do we see in the verses below:**

`Isaiah 4:3`

`Micah 4:6, 7`

`Zephaniah 3:12, 13`

God has a plan for Israel. But God cannot fully bless His people because they disobey God so much. At the same time, the plan of God happens fully in the lives of a few people who are loyal to Him. This small group is named a remnant. A remnant is a piece of cloth leftover from a larger roll of cloth. A remnant also is a word picture that shows us a small group of people in the Bible who are loyal to God. This small group is left over from a larger group.

God always has a remnant that He chooses to be His from a larger group. The larger group says that they love God and are loyal to Him. But their hearts are not loyal. Their lives show it. The remnant, or small group, that God chooses is loyal to God. God has the same plan for this small group that He has for all Israel. He wants them to announce to other people Bible truth. He wants them to “ ‘tell the nations [people from other countries] about my glory’ ” (Isaiah 66:19, NIrV). Then other people will join Israel when they “worship the King [God]” (Zechariah 14:16, NIrV). In Bible times, God has people who do their best to keep the agreement with God (read 1 Kings 19:14–18). Sure, this small group of loyal people suffers along with the larger group when they are all taken away as prisoners to a faraway land. But God will keep His promise to His loyal ones. He will give them the gift of everlasting life.

`Read John 10:27, 28. What is Jesus saying here? How do these promises help us better understand the idea of a remnant? Why will God always have a remnant or small group of people who are loyal to Him?`