---
title:  Spiritual Israel 
date:  06/05/2021
---

Israel makes many mistakes and fails many times in the Bible. But the Lord is not done with Israel. He does not give up His plan of wanting a group of loyal people who serve Him. The Old Testament talks about a future time when God will have this loyal group. This group is named spiritual Israel. Spiritual Israel will be made up of Jews and non-Jews. Together, these loyal ones will preach the Good News about Jesus everywhere on earth. This group is known as the early church in New Testament times.

**Read Galatians 3:26–29. Then answer the questions**:

`1. What promise does Paul talk about in verse 29?`

`2. What is the most important thing that makes a person worthy of getting these promises? (Read Galatians 3:26.)`

`3. A “wall” separates people on this earth. This wall is a word picture for the different things that divide us: male and female. Jew or non-Jew. Rich or poor. Why does Paul “break” this wall?`

`4. What does it mean that we are “all the same in Christ [Jesus]”? (Galatians 3:28, ERV).`

`5. Read Romans 4:16, 17. How do these verses help us understand what Paul says in Galatians 3:26–29?`

“God makes a promise of land to Abraham and his future children. This gift includes not only the land of Canaan but the whole earth. That is why Paul says, “Abraham and his family received [got] a promise. God promised that Abraham would [will] receive [get] the world [the whole earth]. It would not come to him because he obeyed the law. It would come because of his faith, which made him right [free from guilt] with God” (Romans 4:13, [NIrV]). The Bible teaches that God will keep His promises to Abraham. Through Jesus, we will get the gift of everlasting life [1 Peter 1:4] and an earth that is made free from the curse of sin.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 170, adapted. This promise will happen fully when the saved ones live on the new earth forever with Jesus (Daniel 7:27).