---
title:  Further Thought
date:  07/05/2021
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Vineyard of the Lord,” pages 15–22; “Hope for the Heathen,” pages 367–378; and “The House of Israel,” pages 703–721, in Prophets and Kings.

“In the eyes of God, we are all the same. He does not respect some people more than other people because they have a lot of money or were born in a special place or come from an important family. God made everyone. So, we are all one family. Jesus came to destroy every wall of separation. Jesus came to open the temple in heaven. He wants every person to come to God freely. His love is big, deep, and full. His love reaches everyone no matter where he or she is. The love of Jesus makes men free from Satan who have been tricked by his lies. Jesus helps them to come close to the throne of God. A rainbow is around this throne. This rainbow shows us that God will keep His promises. In Jesus, we are all the same: the Jew is not different or better than the Greek. The slave is not different or better than the person who is free.”—Ellen G. White, Prophets and Kings, pages 369, 370, adapted.

Read 1 Peter 2:9 to learn about the four names that Peter gives to the church. Most of these names are shown in these Old Testament verses about Israel: Exodus 19:6 and Isaiah 43:20. What do each of these names show us about the special connection between the church and God? (Here is one example: the name “chosen people” (1 Peter 2:9, ERV) shows us that God chose the church and has special work for it to do.)

**Discussion Questions**:

`In Bible times, the religious leaders killed animals and gave them to God as gifts. These animals showed the future death of Jesus on the cross. As religious leaders for Jesus, what gifts should we bring to God that show what Jesus has done for us? (Read 1 Peter 2:5 to help you answer the question.)`

`How can we be separate from the people on the earth and share the Good News with them at the same time? How does the experience of Israel and the example of Jesus help answer the question?`

`God always has a small group of loyal followers in Old Testament times. Think about Elijah and the remnant, or small group, that lived during his time (1 Kings 19). Why is it often easier to be loyal to God when we are around people who do not know God than around church members who no longer follow God?`

**Summary**: Who are the people of God? They are the ones who live by faith in a special connection with Him. They show the people on this earth the love of God. They invite other people to accept His gift of saving them from sin and to come follow Him.