---
title:  Hikers’ Demise
date:  06/10/2018
---

**Introduction**: Prov. 16:25

With a trusted map in their possession, laced boots, and backpacks packed with hiking necessities, the adventure seekers gathered at the mountain’s base. Within the mountain, at the trail’s end, was utopia, a glimpse of Eden, complete with a waterfall cascading into a crystal-clear pool complemented by endless species of stunning flora, nature’s best. A few eager hikers stood aside from their group, a bit nearer to the start of the trail, excited for the journey ahead and a bit peeved by their friends’ delay. The trek was soon underway. The majority of the group, enjoying the sights and experience of the journey, moved slowly but steadily up the trail. Our anxious hikers accelerated their ascent and soon found themselves separated from the group. However, their confidence in their hiking abilities and perceived knowledge of the trail prevented any feelings of fear or bewilderment.

They soon came to a crossroad. A spirit of doubt permeated the aura of the group as they pondered which path they should take. Left, or right? Some considered the option of waiting on the other hikers and consulting the map to confirm the direction, but some, consumed with pride, quickly dismissed that thought. Ultimately there was a separation of ways—some opting to stay and wait, while others, relying on their own volition, chose the path that they perceived to be best and pressed on . . . on to their demise. Hours later, fatigued, frustrated, and isolated, the self-confident faction succumbed to their reality. They were lost.

The hikers’ demise lay in their self-confidence, self-sufficiency, and unwillingness to consult the map. Their behavior was the catalyst for the resulting disunity and discord among themselves. Life is a hiking trail, and God, the master cartographer, has provided us, His people, with a map, His holy Word and holy law contained within. Disregarding this holy law (which provides divine guidance and protection) and trusting in self for direction leads to certain loss and chaos. On the other hand, its observance leads to the promise of ultimate utopia and life eternal. It’s God’s will that we choose the latter. In the upcoming week, we seek to further explore spiritual disobedience, self-reliance, and its direct relation to disunity within the body of Christ.

---

_Steven Ignacio, Arima, Trinidad and Tobago_