---
title:  Divided Ideologies
date:  07/10/2018
---

**Evidence**: 1 Cor. 1:10; Phil. 2:5

Many historians have advanced compelling reasons for America’s defeat in the Vietnam War. One striking argument is posited by Lieutenant Colonel James Rothrock in his book, Divided We Fall: How Disunity Leads to Defeat. 1 He argues that disunity at the domestic level was the dominant factor for the United States’ demise in Vietnam, caused by conflicting ideologies about the war abroad. This disunity, he contends, emboldened the opposition to fight against the United States and its allies. Therefore, the media, technocrats, and politicians were not of “one mind” as they confronted the enemies on the battlefield, resulting in a shattering defeat for the United States.

This historical recount provides a useful perspective for us today as Seventh-day Adventists as we study the causes of disunity in the body of Christ. A division of our beliefs as we face the opposing forces is a perfect recipe for disunity in the church, which undoubtedly will undermine the influence of the church in the twenty-first century. The apostle Paul advises “that all of you agree with one another in what you say and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly united in mind and thought” (1 Corinthians 1:10, NIV). The concern of disunity among the early believers occupied Paul’s writings as he understood its negative impact on the mission of the church. Paul encouraged the believers to set aside philosophies and opinions that were diametrically opposed to the Word of God and that fueled controversy and disunity among the believers. The Seventh-day Adventist Church is to be seen as one unit and not contending or divided entities with various doctrinal perspectives. To be perfectly united in mind and thought is to fundamentally have the mind of Christ as admonished in Philippians 2:5, “Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus.” As a consequence, our passion, mission, and desire to spread the everlasting gospel will be the same. While there may be disagreements on certain points, we will be prepared to submit our ideologies to the Holy Spirit, who will guide us into all truth as our hearts are open to His leading. Consequently, our differences will be ironed out and disunity will be dispelled from among us.

A church divided on biblical principles is on its pathway to conflict and sure disunity.

---

<sup>1. James Rothrock, Divided We Fall: How Disunity Leads to Defeat (Milton Keynes, UK: AuthorHouse, 2006).</sup>

_Chadwick Noel, Arouca, Trinidad and Tobago_