---
title:  Unity Enshrined in the Law?
date:  09/10/2018
---

**Testimony**: Deut. 28:1–14; James 1:5; 1 Cor. 1:10–17

“There is a great and solemn work to be done for Seventh-day Adventists, if they will only be converted. The great trouble is the lack of unity among them. This is a sin in the sight of God,—a sin which, unless God’s people repent, will withhold from them his blessing.”1

“How sad that so many churches misrepresent the sanctifying influence of the truth, because they do not manifest the saving grace that would make them one with Christ, even as Christ is one with the Father! If all would reveal the unity and love that should exist among brethren, the power of the Holy Spirit would be manifest in its saving influence. In proportion to our unity with Christ will be our power to save souls.”2

“In the work of soul saving, the Lord calls together laborers who have different plans and ideas and various methods of labor. But with this diversity of minds, there is to be revealed a unity of purpose. Oftentimes in the past the work the Lord designed should prosper has been hindered because men have tried to place a yoke upon their fellow workers who did not follow the methods which they regarded as the best.”3

“Through the diversity of the gifts and governments that He has placed in the church, they will all come to the unity of the faith. If one man takes his views of Bible truth without regard to the opinion of his brethren, and justifies his course, alleging that he has a right to his own peculiar views, and then presses them upon others, how can he be fulfilling the prayer of Christ? And if another and still another arises, each asserting his right to believe and talk what he pleases, without reference to the faith of the body, where will be that harmony which existed between Christ and His Father, and which Christ prayed might exist among His brethren?”4

**React**

`1. How can differing personalities and talents cause disunity in the body of Christ?`

`2. What role do the commandments of God play in the breakdown of unity in the church?`

---

<sup>1. Ellen G. White, “The Work Before Us,” Review and Herald, April 14, 1903, p. 7.</sup>

<sup>2. Ellen G. White, “One, Even as We Are One,” Bible Training School, February 1, 1906, p. 130.</sup>

<sup>3. Ellen G. White, “A Missionary Education,” Review and Herald, February 6, 1908, p. 24.</sup>

<sup>4. Ellen G. White, Christian Experience and Teachings of Ellen G. White, pp. 201–203.</sup>

_Bernice Batson, Arima, Trinidad and Tobago_