---
title:  'The “I” Syndrome: Symptoms'
date:  10/10/2018
---

**How-to**: Judg. 21:25; 3:7; Psalm 1; Prov. 16:25; Jer. 3:14; James 1:5

You may be sick and not even know it. Sick unto death—spiritual death, that is. It just might be that you’ve got the “I” syndrome, a very dangerous disease. I myself have had it and didn’t know for years. I sat in the pews of my church infecting others, letting its gross side effects permeate my church and family, leading them to believe that I was healthy, our disunity was normal, and our relationships were A-OK. Truth is, most of us have already been infected. We need to know the signs.

“I” syndrome symptoms:

The law isn’t really law. You neglect the study of the Word or use it contrary to God’s divine leading. You may find yourself relying on your own intelligence and wisdom rather than God’s, overturning and disregarding His counsel for your life and relationships. As a result, you’re found in conflict with other believers because “your” law and “the law” simply cannot exist in harmony.

Prayer is the absolute last resort. When sick, you experience delusions, triggered by your environment and the enemy. You are led to truly believe that you can solve your own problems. Again, because your consultation with God often comes after your lack of submission and communication with Him, you find yourself feeling desolate, far away from His abiding Spirit and the fellowship of brethren.

You prefer the sound of served over serving. Your zeal for ministering to others is either low or geared toward your own merit. You measure ministry by the praise of others. When those around you question your motives, you become defensive and feel as though your worth and time go unappreciated. You serve yourself, your desires, and your pleasures first, regardless of the spiritual and physical needs of those around you.

You find yourself on a bus to nowhere and you’re driving. Most often, those affected by the “I” syndrome find themselves isolated and in discord with the community of believers. Instead of allowing God to mend their hearts and relationships, they continue to assume control over their own lives. However, reliance on their own strength and not allowing Jesus Christ to lead only makes them sicker and less likely to be cured in the future. They’ve hopped on a bus, with no GPS, heading away from the care of their Savior and Redeemer.

**React**

`1. Do you see symptoms of “I” syndrome in your own life?`

`2. What steps can you take to remedy this illness?`

---

_Khaffi Beckles, Arima, Trinidad and Tobago_