---
title:  Discord in the Symphony
date:  11/10/2018
---

**Opinion**: Judg. 2:15; 1 Cor. 1:10; Gal. 2:4–8

You are sitting in the concert hall, and everyone is quiet, waiting for the harmonious sounds to rise from the instruments before them. The conductor raises his baton, and the first notes float into the air. As the sound progresses and the conductor puts all that he has into eliciting the glorious sound from the musicians, some musicians decide that they no longer feel they wish to play the assigned music or follow the cues given by the conductor. Others may have a personal bias against the conductor and decide to play music contrary to what is expected to embarrass the conductor. In deviating from the music or playing an entirely different song, they disrupt the awe-inspiring environment created by the conductor, producing cacophony.

Just as discord arose when the musicians disregarded the written music or the directions of the conductor, disunity is inevitable the moment God’s people turn away from the plain “Thus saith the Lord.” When we disobey the guides given by God in His Word, chaos ensues. There are times when we place our own human interpretation on the Holy Scriptures. With everyone interpreting the Holy Scriptures as they see fit, there will be opposing themes, leading to confusion. Just as a musician learning an instrument consults someone who knows how to play the instrument, shouldn’t we, then, go to God for help in understanding all things spiritual? (James 1:5).

When we no longer rely on God and His Word to transform us, we harbor certain prejudices against members of the church. We may develop biases because of people’s cultural background or history before they accepted Christ. We sometimes find ourselves forming cliques in the church or refusing to interact with certain members simply because we don’t like them and cannot explain why. Even though that person may come to us with inspired truth and we recognize it as truth, we rebel against it or dismiss it simply because of our preconceptions.

It seems that God’s people have come to accept disunity as being a natural part of the church. We have adopted the saying “Let’s agree to disagree.” In doing this we are fostering a spirit of disagreement (1 Cor. 1:10).

**React**

`1. Is there anything that you are currently doing that is contributing to disunity in your local church?`

`2. Is it possible for disunity to yield a positive outcome? How so?`

---

_Danielle Ignacio, Arima, Trinidad and Tobago_