---
title:  A House Divided Cannot Stand
date:  12/10/2018
---

**Exploration**: Mark 3:25

**Conclude**

In Mark 3:25, Jesus’ words serve as a compelling reminder: “If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand” (NKJV). The book of Judges tells us of a divided and defeated people because of Israel’s pursuit of carnal indulgences, idolatry, and pride. In the New Testament the church faced similar challenges. In his letter to the Corinthians, Paul advises against sectarianism, beseeching the people of Corinth that they need to be of the same spiritual mind. The progression of the church was of utmost importance then, as it is now. As Satan continuously attempts to bring disunity into the church, we must prevail against him, moving in one accord in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ!

**Consider**

- Observing the members of the church you attend. Is there any obvious separation among the brethren? What are some of the causes? What is the solution? Discuss this separation in class this Sabbath.
- Designing an artistic piece that contrasts the environments of unity and disunity.
- Writing and performing a skit that illustrates the different attitudes that contribute to disunity.
- Writing a personal journal entry in which you reflect on your role in disunity in the church.
- Thinking about members who have been discouraged because of disunity in the church and reaching out to them.
- Praying for your church that their eyes will be opened to the reality of disunity and that with God’s guidance they move toward a solution.


**Connect**

Ellen G. White, “The Church’s Great Need,” Review and Herald, March 22, 1887.

---

_Marijka Johnson, Arima, Trinidad and Tobago_