---
title:  'Ultimate Loyalty: Worship in a War Zone'
date:  08/11/2025
---

### Read for This Week’s Study
Josh. 5:1–7; Exod. 12:6; 1 Cor. 5:7; Josh. 8:30–35; Deut. 8:11, 14; Heb. 9:11, 12.

> <p>Memory Text:</p>
> “ ‘But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you’ ” (Matthew 6:33, ESV).

This week we are going to look at some key moments during Israel’s presence in the Promised Land, when the people rededicated themselves to the Lord, sometimes in the face of impending danger. Joshua made the seemingly irrational decision to circumcise the Israelites on enemy territory (Josh. 5:1–9); to celebrate the Passover in the face of imminent danger (Josh. 5:10–12); to build an altar and worship the Lord while the conquest was in full swing (Josh. 8:30–35); and to set up the tabernacle of the Lord when seven tribes in Israel had not yet received their inheritance (Josh. 18:1, 2).

In our busy lives, we tend to give attention to the urgencies that life throws at us. Very often we neglect to carve out quality time to renew our commitment to God and to pause and express our thankfulness for what He has done and daily continues to do for us. Morning and evening worship, as well as the family altar, seem to be so out of context in our overcharged, convenience-driven, and achievement-oriented life. Yet, deep in our hearts, we all know that the occasions spent together with God and our loved ones are the best investment of our limited time.

_*Study this week’s lesson to prepare for Sabbath, November 15._

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

“Thou shalt have no other gods before me” (Exodus 20:3). . . . It is not alone in denying the existence of God or in bowing down to idols of wood and stone that this first commandment is broken. By many who profess to be followers of Christ, its principles are infringed, but the Lord of heaven does not acknowledge those as His children who are cherishing in their hearts anything that takes the place which God alone should hold. With many the gratification of appetite holds sway, while with others dress and love of the world are given the first place in the heart. . . .\
God has given us many things in this life upon which to bestow our affections, but when we carry to excess that which in itself is lawful we become idolaters. . . . Anything that separates our affections from God and lessens our interest in eternal things is an idol. Those who use the precious time given them by God—time that has been purchased at an infinite cost—in embellishing their homes for display, in following the fashions and customs of the world, are not only robbing their own souls of spiritual food, but are failing to give God His due. The time thus spent in the gratification of selfish desires might be employed in obtaining a knowledge of the Word of God, in cultivating our talents, that we might render intelligent service to our Creator. . . . God will not share a divided heart. If the world absorbs our attention, He cannot reign supreme. If this diminishes our devotion for God, it is idolatry in His eyes. . . .\
“God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth” (John 4:24). When our hearts are tuned to praise our Maker, not only in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs but also in our lives, we shall live in communion with Heaven. . . . There will be gratitude in the heart and in the home, in private as well as in public devotion. This constitutes the true worship of God.—That I May Know Him, p. 322.\
Thank God for the bright pictures which He has presented to us. Let us group together the blessed assurances of His love, that we may look upon them continually: The Son of God leaving His Father’s throne, clothing His divinity with humanity, that He might rescue man from the power of Satan; His triumph in our behalf, opening heaven to men, revealing to human vision the presence chamber where the Deity unveils His glory; the fallen race uplifted from the pit of ruin into which sin had plunged it, and brought again into connection with the infinite God, and having endured the divine test through faith in our Redeemer, clothed in the righteousness of Christ, and exalted to His throne—these are the pictures which God would have us contemplate. . . .\
Angels are listening to hear what kind of report you are bearing to the world about your heavenly Master. Let your conversation be of Him who liveth to make intercession for you before the Father. When you take the hand of a friend, let praise to God be on your lips and in your heart. This will attract his thoughts to Jesus.—Steps to Christ, pp. 118, 119.