---
title:  Written on Stones
date:  12/11/2025
---

`Read Joshua 8:32–35. What is the meaning of the act described in these verses, and what should it say to us today?`

Mount Ebal is mentioned only in Deuteronomy (Deut. 11:29; Deut. 27:4, 13) and in the book of Joshua (Josh. 8:30, 33). Along with Gerizim, it was the site where the blessings and curses of the covenant were to be recited. More specifically, according to Deuteronomy 11:29 and Deuteronomy 27:4, 13, it had to be the site of the curses. Here the Israelites were to stand on either side of the ark in the presence of the priests (Josh. 8:33). One group stood in front of Mount Ebal, the other in front of Mount Gerizim. Here they symbolically enacted the two possible ways of relating to the covenant. The sacrifices that were brought there pointed to Jesus, who took upon Himself all the curses of the covenant so that all who believe in Him might enjoy its blessings (Gal. 3:13, 2 Cor. 5:21).

`Why was it necessary to write a copy of the covenant on a monument, visible to all? (See Deut. 4:31; Deut. 6:12; Deut. 8:11, 14; 2 Kings 17:38; Ps. 78:7.)`

We humans tend to be forgetful. We crowd the increasingly bewildering demands of everyday life into shorter and shorter segments of time. We inevitably forget things that do not recur with the same frequency or intensity. At every Communion service, we have a special occasion to rededicate ourselves to the Lord and to renew our covenantal commitment. It would be good to perceive these opportunities not only as chances for individual reconsecration but also as occasions of corporate renewal of our allegiance to God. In an increasingly individualistic society, we must rediscover the power of belonging to a community that shares the same worldview, the same values and beliefs, and the same mission.

`How easy do you find it, in the rush and hubbub of life, to forget the Lord and seek to do things in your own strength and power? Why is this so easy to do, especially when things are going well for you?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

It is God’s purpose to manifest through His people the principles of His kingdom. That in life and character they may reveal these principles, He desires to separate them from the customs, habits, and practices of the world. He seeks to bring them near to Himself, that He may make known to them His will.\
This was His purpose in the deliverance of Israel from Egypt. At the burning bush Moses received from God the message for the king of Egypt: “Let My people go, that they may serve Me.” Exodus 7:16. With a mighty hand and an outstretched arm God brought out the Hebrew host from the land of bondage. Wonderful was the deliverance He wrought for them, punishing their enemies, who refused to listen to His word, with total destruction.\
God desired to take His people apart from the world and prepare them to receive His word. From Egypt He led them to Mount Sinai, where He revealed to them His glory. Here was nothing to attract their senses or divert their minds from God; and as the vast multitude looked at the lofty mountains towering above them, they could realize their own nothingness in the sight of God. Beside these rocks, immovable except by the power of the divine will, God communicated with men. And that His word might ever be clear and distinct in their minds, He proclaimed amid thunder and lightning and with terrible majesty the law which He had given in Eden and which was the transcript of His character. And the words were written on tables of stone by the finger of God. Thus the will of the infinite God was revealed to a people who were called to make known to every nation, kindred, and tongue the principles of His government in heaven and in earth.\
To the same work He has called His people in this generation. To them He has revealed His will, and of them He requires obedience. In the last days of this earth’s history the voice that spoke from Sinai is still saying to men: “Thou shalt have no other gods before Me.” Exodus 20:3. Man has set his will against the will of God, but he cannot silence this word of command. The human mind can never fully comprehend its obligation to the higher power, but it cannot evade the obligation. Profound theories and speculations may abound, men may try to set science in opposition to revelation, and thus do away with the law of God; but stronger and still stronger will the Holy Spirit bring before them the command: “Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve.” Matthew 4:10.—Testimonies for the Church, vol. 6, pp. 9, 10.