---
title:  Further Thought
date:  14/11/2025
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Blessings and the Curses,” pp. 499–503, in _Patriarchs and Prophets_.

“According to the directions given by Moses, a monument of great stones was erected upon Mount Ebal. Upon these stones, previously prepared by a covering of plaster, the law was inscribed—not only the ten precepts spoken from Sinai and engraved on the tables of stone, but the laws communicated to Moses, and by him written in a book. Beside this monument was built an altar of unhewn stone, upon which sacrifices were offered unto the Lord. The fact that the altar was set up on Mount Ebal, the mountain upon which the curse was put, was significant, denoting that because of their transgressions of God’s law, Israel had justly incurred His wrath, and that it would be at once visited, but for the atonement of Christ, represented by the altar of sacrifice.”—Ellen G. White, _Patriarchs and Prophets_, p. 500.

“But the Communion service was not to be a season of sorrowing. This was not its purpose. As the Lord’s disciples gather about His table, they are not to remember and lament their shortcomings. They are not to dwell upon their past religious experience, whether that experience has been elevating or depressing. They are not to recall the differences between them and their brethren. The preparatory service has embraced all this. The self-examination, the confession of sin, the reconciling of differences, has all been done. Now they come to meet with Christ. They are not to stand in the shadow of the cross, but in its saving light. They are to open the soul to the bright beams of the Sun of Righteousness.”—Ellen G. White, _The Desire of Ages_, p. 659.

**Discussion Questions**:

`What does it mean to you to seek first the kingdom of God? How does that principle shape your daily life?`

`Look at your answer to Wednesday’s final question about how easy it is to forget the Lord amid the daily rush of life. In class, discuss why it is so easy to do. What are some solutions?`

`As Adventists, we believe that Jesus is ministering on our behalf in the heavenly sanctuary. How can this conviction be a constant source of hope and strength? Why should the knowledge that it is Jesus who is up there making “intercession” (Heb. 7:25) for us help us realize just what good news His work in the heavenly sanctuary is, especially now in the antitypical Day of Atonement?`

---

#### Additional Reading: Selected Quotes from Ellen G. White

_To Be Like Jesus_, “All Nature Entrusted to Adam and Eve,” August 2, p. 228.\
_To Be Like Jesus_, “An Exhaustless Source of Instruction and Delight,” August 28, p. 254.