---
title:  God’s Invitation
date:   14/10/2023
---

### Read for this week’s lesson
Genesis 11:1–9; Genesis 12:1–3; Genesis 12:10–13:1; Acts 8:1–4; Acts 1:8.

> <p>Memory verse</p>
> “ ‘But you will receive [get] power when the Holy Spirit comes into your life. You will tell about Me in the city of Jerusalem and over all the countries of Judea and Samaria and to the ends [every part] of the earth’ ” (Acts 1:8, ERV).

God invites us to be His witnesses. Sometimes He may ask us to do things we haven’t done before. We may feel afraid of change. Did you know that when we allow God to change us, He can use us to save other people? Look at what happened at the Tower of Babel. God caused the builders not to understand each other. Then the people left Babel. “They moved away and filled the earth. Their moving away was God’s plan all along. These same men refused to cooperate with God. Now God used the trouble at Babel to make the very thing happen that these men refused to do.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 120, adapted. Look at Abraham, too. Abraham left his home and went to another country (Genesis 12), where he told people about God. What about Jesus’ followers? At first, they shared the Good News only with their own people, the Jews. Then Jesus sent them to share the Good News with non-Jews, too (Acts 8:1–4).

We may never leave our country. But God wants us to share the Good News with the people around us. We practice every day when we talk about Jesus with our family, friends, and neighbors.