---
title:  Doing Things We’ve Never Done Before
date:   15/10/2023
---

God wants us to share the Good News about Jesus with other people. So, sometimes He may ask us to do things we’ve never done before. These things may make us feel nervous or afraid. We like staying with the people we know. But this habit can cause us to become selfish. We can learn more about this danger from the Tower of Babel story.

`Read Genesis 11:1–9. In this story, what did the people want to do? Why did God stop them?`

The story about the people at the Tower of Babel shows us how much they wanted to be famous. They planned to make the biggest city and tower on the earth. They said, “ ‘Let’s build ourselves a city and a tower that will reach to the sky. Then we will be famous’ ” (Genesis 11:4, ERV).

How often today do people try to do the same thing? Maybe they are artists, government leaders, businessmen, or pastors! They all want to be famous. In the end, their wish to be famous is empty and has no meaning. Everything they did to be famous is empty and has no meaning, too. (Read Ecclesiastes 2:1–11.)

In Genesis 11:4, we learn why the people wanted to build the tower. They wanted to avoid being separated from each other and scattered all over the earth. They wanted to stick together for selfish reasons. But God had another plan.

The people joined together to build the tower. But “the Lordord said, ‘These people all speak the same language. And I see that they are joined together to do this work. This is only the beginning of what they can do. Soon they will be able to do anything they want’ ” (Genesis 11:6, ERV). The plan of the people to build this tower was evil.

Ellen G. White tells us that the people didn’t trust God’s promise that He would not destroy the earth with water again (Genesis 9:14, 15). The people wanted to be safe. They didn’t believe God. God saw the evil that was in their hearts. Their hearts were filled with selfishness. So, God stopped their plan from happening.

`Do you talk only to people who agree with you? Are you part of a group or community that only trusts your own people? How can you make friends with people who are not part of your race group or community?`