---
title:  Becoming A Blessing To Everyone On Earth
date:   16/10/2023
---

`What was God’s plan for Abram? How was Abram’s sharing the Good News with other people part of this plan? Read Genesis 12:1–3 for the answer.`

God asked Abram to leave his country and his people and go to another land. (Later, God changed Abram’s name to Abraham). God’s asking Abraham to leave was all part of His big plan to save humans. Abraham was an important part of this plan. Abraham went, just as the Lord asked Him to go. God has a plan for you, too. He may ask you to leave your family and your people. He may ask you to go somewhere you never went before. God will open the way for you to serve Him there. God will help and bless you so that you may be a blessing to other people.

**Read the Bible verses below. What does each verse tell us about God’s Promise to us?**

`Genesis 3:15`

`Genesis 17:19`

`Numbers 24:17`

`Isaiah 9:6`

`Daniel 9:24–27`

`Matthew 1:21`

The verses above teach us that God will keep the promise He made in the Garden of Eden. God promises that Someone will come and solve the sin problem. That Someone is Jesus. Jesus came from the family line of Abraham and Isaac. Hebrews 11:9 tells us that God gave to Isaac and Jacob the blessing He promised to Abraham.

How much did Abraham know or understand about the Promised Son who would be born from his family line? We don’t know. We do know what Abraham did. “God called Abraham to travel to another place that he promised to give him. Abraham did not know where that other place was. But he obeyed God and started traveling because he had faith” (Hebrews 11:8, ERV). Abraham is an example to us all!