---
title:  God’s Command To Abram
date:   17/10/2023
---

God commanded Abram to leave his home and country. So, Abram went to the land God commanded him to enter. Right from the start, things didn’t go so well for Abram. The Canaanites lived in the land at the time (Genesis 12:6). The Canaanites were known for being very mean and nasty people. No wonder that God appeared to Abram right after he got there and promised, “ ‘I will give this land to your children and to your children’s children’ ” (Genesis 12:7, NLV). For sure, Abram needed this encouragement.

But things continued not to go well for Abram, at least at first.

`What things happened to Abram next? Read Genesis 12:10–13:1 for the answer. What mistakes did Abram make?`

Abram must have felt as if he had no hope. He left a comfortable and happy life in his home country. “He left his home without knowing where he was going” (Hebrews 11:8, NLV). One of the first things that happened when he got there was a food shortage! This food shortage was so bad that Abram had to leave the place where God told him to live and go somewhere else. Then things got worse after that.

“Abraham stayed in Egypt. During this time, he showed the weakness and sin that was in his heart. Abraham did not tell anyone that Sarah was his wife. So often in the past, Abraham showed courage and his faith in God. This time, Abraham’s behavior showed that he didn’t trust God to take care of him. . . . Abraham’s lack of faith put Sarah in terrible danger. The king of Egypt learned that Sarah was very beautiful. He ordered some men to bring her to his palace, so he could make her his wife. But the Lord showed mercy to Sarah and protected her. The Lord sent punishments to the royal family.”—Ellen G. White, Patriarchs and Prophets, page 130, adapted.

No one said that our work for God was easy. When Abram lied, he made things worse. God is patient. He didn’t give up on Abram because of his mistake. Sad to say, Abram made other mistakes, too, later on. Abram’s story gives us a lot of hope. We may make mistakes. But we can hold on to the Lord in faith. We can trust Him to forgive our sins and mistakes. The Lord also will continue to use us to do His work.