---
title:  The New Testament Church And God’s Work
date:   18/10/2023
---

`In the New Testament church, what caused the Christians to leave Jerusalem and travel to faraway places? Read Acts 8:1–4 for the answer.`

Until this time, the New Testament church was mostly in Jerusalem (or in the Jewish lands and among the Jewish people). Then everything changed. The Jews attacked Jesus’ followers in Jerusalem. So, Jesus’ followers left Jerusalem and went all over the lands of Judea and Samaria. In Acts 1:8, Jesus said to His followers, “ ‘You will tell about Me in the city of Jerusalem and over all the countries of Judea and Samaria and to the ends [every part] of the earth’ ” (Acts 1:8, NLV). Jesus’ words happened just as He said, as we see in Acts 8:4: “They were scattered everywhere, and in every place they went, they told people the Good News” (ERV).

After church members started to move away from Jerusalem, they continued to preach to the Jews or in the neighborhoods of cities where Jews lived. Acts 11:19 tells us that church members went as far away as Phoenicia (modern-day Lebanon) and Cyprus. But they didn’t preach the message to anyone else except other Jews.

Peter was one of the leaders of the New Testament church. Peter didn’t want to share the Good News with non-Jews, even after Paul started to do so. Peter was known as the preacher to the Jews. Paul was known as the preacher to the non-Jews (Galatians 2:8). Early on, Peter didn’t want to be seen with non-Jews (Galatians 2:11, 12). But God changed Peter’s heart. Then Peter started to learn what the Good News was really all about. He also started to learn that Jesus didn’t die to save only the Jews. Jesus died to save everyone on the earth who believed in Him.

`What message is the Lord trying to give to Peter? Read Acts 10:9–15, 28, 29 for the answer. How must we also follow this important rule in the work we do for God today?`