---
title:  Starting From Where You Are
date:   19/10/2023
---

`What important rule did Jesus share with His followers? Read Acts 1:8 for the answer. Why is it also important for us, as Jesus’ witnesses, to follow this rule?`

Jesus shared an important rule with His followers before He went back to heaven. This rule shows us how we need to behave as His followers when we share the Good News with other people. Our job is not to convince other people they are wrong. Our job is to share the Bible truth about Jesus that we read about in the Three Angels’ Messages in Revelation 14:6–12.

Jesus gives us two important rules in Acts 1:8 that can help us do this work.

First, we must remember that Jesus told His followers, “ ‘You will tell people about me in Jerusalem’ ” (Acts 1:8, NIrV). We are His witnesses. We must share the Good News about Jesus in the place where we live. This place may include our home, our church, our neighborhood, and our community. We need to be Jesus’ witnesses first where we are. We must be His witnesses to the people who are nearest to us. These people may include family members, church people, coworkers, neighbors, and people in the community.

Sometimes people only want to visit another country to share the Good News there. But these same people do not share Jesus with people at home. We should start sharing the Good News where we are and move on from there as the Lord leads us.

Next, Jesus said His followers will tell people about Him “ ‘in all Judea and Samaria. And you will even tell other people about me from one end [part] of the earth to the other [part]’ ” (Acts 1:8, NIrV). Again, Jesus announces that He wants His followers to share the Good News with people from other race groups. Jesus may ask us to move to other areas so that we can share the Good News with different race groups and religious groups and communities.

`Task #1: Make a list of people groups in your community. What special needs do these groups have? Is your church doing anything to help them? If yes, how is your church meeting their needs? If no, how can your church help them?`

`Task #2: Pray for a chance in the future to help people, near and far away, who have special needs.`