---
title:  Additional Thought
date:   20/10/2023
---

Read Ellen G. White, “The Great Commission,” page 25–34, and “A Seeker for Truth,” pages 131–142, in The Acts of the Apostles.

“Before Jesus went back to heaven, He gave His followers their work. Jesus gave them many precious Bible truths to share with people everywhere on earth. These precious truths were the same as treasure and included the teaching about everlasting life. Jesus told His followers, ‘You have been witnesses of My life. You have seen what I have given to the human family to save them. You have seen My work for Israel. My people refused to come to Me so that they may have everlasting life. The spiritual leaders did what they wanted to Me. Then they rejected Me. But I will give them another chance to accept Me, the Son of God. You saw that I accepted all the people who came to Me and confessed their sins. I give My message of mercy to you, My followers. You must give this message to both Jews and non-Jews. You must share it with Israel first. Then you must share this message with all people groups everywhere. You must help Me bring all My followers into one church.’ ”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 27, 28, adapted.

Jesus’ Important Command says: “ ‘Go and make followers of all the nations [people groups]’ ” (Matthew 28:19, NLV). So, this work is about going to other people in different countries all over the earth.

“Jesus’ followers must not wait for the people to come to them. They must go to the people with their message of mercy from Jesus.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, page 28, adapted.

“Many people are near to God, more than we think they are. This earth is dark and filled with sin. But God has many people who are the same to Him as precious jewels. God will lead His messengers to these precious people. Everywhere, people will take their stand for Jesus. Many will prize the wisdom of God above anything this life offers them. They will become God’s loyal servants.”—Ellen G. White, The Acts of the Apostles, pages 140, 141, adapted.

**Discussion Questions**:

`In your own words, explain what God’s saving work means to you. What is your part in this work?`

`How can you win more people to Jesus in your day-to-day work?`